-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Prince of Persia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/princeofpersiaworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intricate level design.
 Beautiful art direction.
 Platforming is entertaining and looks great.
 Cinematic combat moves are cool to pull off and impressive to watch.
 Elika's presence leads to unique gameplay mechanics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Really, really easy.
 The new prince isn't a good leading man.
 Some combat and platforming annoyances.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 63 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,760 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Dec 2, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Prince of Persia's shimmering veneer and joyous platforming will cast a spell on you. 

  In many modern games, you rain death upon your enemies; how refreshing, then, that your main task 
 in Prince of Persia is to breathe life into a darkening world. That doesn't mean that the forces 
 of evil aren't on your tail in this open-world platformer, but the most indelible moments of this 
 enchanting journey are uplifting, rather than destructive. Similarly, the latest iteration in this 
 long-running franchise is a rejuvenation for the series, and it's an ambitious one, offering up 
 a new titular prince and casting certain game traditions aside in favor of player immersion. And 
 for the most part it succeeds, eliminating illusion-breaking mechanics like game-over screens and 
 long loading times in the process. This re-imagining comes with a few caveats, however, and if 
 you're a longtime series fan, you'll quickly discover -- and possibly resent -- that Prince of Persia 
 is, far and away, the easiest game in the series. But if you can clear your mind and let the game's 
 magic wash over you, its easygoing joy and visual beauty will charm you into forgiving a sprinkling 
 of flaws.  

           The prince's sword is sharper than his tongue.      

  In some ways, Prince of Persia represents a return to Sands of Time's storybook vibe, which had 
 been somewhat lost in that game's two sequels. Yet our new hero isn't exactly Prince Charming, 
 but rather a wisecracking nomad interested only in his donkey (named Farah, in one of several nods 
 to previous games) and the riches she apparently carries. His royal status is referenced but never 
 fully explored, though his companion Elika is clearly a princess, and as the game progresses, you'll 
 become much more invested in her past than the prince's. Together, they seek to imprison the evil 
 god Ahriman, who has been inexplicably set free by Elika's own father. To do so, they must restore 
 a series of fertile grounds to their former fecund glory, thereby banishing the inky black corruption 
 that has enveloped the land. Storytelling isn't the game's strong suit, and the dismissive, often 
 unlikeable prince is hardly beguiling, a poor fit for the captivating journey ahead. Thankfully, 
 Elika exudes enough charm for the both of them, and the relationship they slowly forge lends plenty 
 of emotional impact to the game's final moments.  

  This relationship enriches the very core of the experience, given that Elika is not your standard 
 game sidekick. She isn't just a helpless companion, but an important part of a number of gameplay 
 mechanics. As the prince, you will pull off moves familiar to franchise fans: jumping, climbing, 
 scaling, and wallrunning among them. There are also a few new acrobatics to play with, such as 
 the aptly named roofrun, where the prince scuttles along the roof in a vaguely simian manner. But 
 if the moves are familiar, Elika's presence enriches and enhances them. She will jump on your back 
 as you scale across vines, reach for your helping hand as you climb, and perform an elegant pas 
 de deux with you when you need to pass her on a narrow beam. In some ways, this relationship recalls 
 that of Ico and Yorda in 2001's ICO.  

  While in ICO Yorda was totally dependent on her companion, here Elika is far more helpful to the 
 prince than he is to her. She is, in fact, your constant savior, because she will not, and cannot, 
 allow you to die. Should you fall, Elika will grab you by the wrist and whisk you to safety -- meaning 
 the last checkpoint. There is a checkpoint at almost every platform, so aside from possibly having 
 to repeat a few seconds of gameplay, there is absolutely no penalty for plummeting to your doom. 
 You will never see the words "game over," and you won't need to save and reload before difficult 
 sequences. Nor will you need to ever puzzle over how to make it from point A to point B: Elika 
 can fire off a magical homing orb that will show you the precise way of getting to your destination. 
 Combined with simple platforming controls that require a minimum of button presses, these facets 
 make Prince of Persia one of the easiest games you'll play all year.  

           Some moments are absolutely magical.      

  This ease of use makes each individual 
 action seem relatively meaningless as you string moves together. For many, this will translate 
 to a diminished feeling of reward; aside from a few exceptions, there is no sequence that feels 
 remotely challenging, certainly not for players familiar with the old-school difficulties wrought 
 by the early games in the series. Yet while the unique satisfaction of overcoming hurdles is missing, 
 it is tempered by other kinds of rewards. The platforming is fluid, and seamlessly chaining a number 
 of moves together is simple but visually appealing, making for some silky-smooth motion that you'll 
 get a kick out of. Additionally, as you progress through the game and explore some of the more 
 intricate environments, you'll find some truly impressive level design. Each area flows organically 
 into the next, and while the overall design feels a bit more synthetic than it did in Assassin's 
 Creed, platform placement and other architectural features don't feel overtly artificial.  

  The stupendous level design becomes more apparent when you begin to unlock Elika's various powers -- though 
 calling them powers is a bit of a stretch. As you unlock new explorable areas by collecting glowing 
 orbs called light seeds, you will be able to utilize the various colored plates that dot walls 
 and ceilings. There are four types of plates, and each kind initiates a high-flying feat. Red and 
 blue plates are functionally the same (though visually unique) , propelling you automatically toward 
 the next plate or platform. Green plates turn you into a sort of Persian Spider-Man, causing you 
 to quickly scale up walls and ceilings while avoiding obstacles. Finally, yellow plates initiate 
 on-rails flight sequences that give you limited room to maneuver around obstructions, sort of like 
 a 3D version of Nights Into Dreams, the Saturn platformer. Many of the sequences combining plate 
 jumps and standard platforming are exhilarating, and the manner in which some of them utilize all 
 three dimensions make the level design all the more impressive. And amazingly, the camera is rarely 
 a liability, which is quite an achievement. Unfortunately, the flying initiated by leaping from 
 yellow plates is a clear weakness. The constant camera movement and overwhelming visual effect 
 used here make for a few annoying sections, and it is never clear whether you need to go left or 
 right, up or down to avoid certain objects. Given that most of the plate-initiated bits are terrific 
 fun, it's a shame these particular flights of fancy were so poorly crafted.  

  There is some combat, and while it's hardly Prince of Persia's focus, it looks mightily spectacular. 
 You fight only a single enemy at a time, including the four main bosses, which you'll take on multiple 
 times. Battles are on the simple side: you have four main attacks -- sword, gauntlet, Elika's magic, 
 and acrobatic vault -- that you can string into various combos. Enemies can change states, making 
 certain attacks ineffective, and there are some other occasional twists. Yet like the platforming, 
 it is on the easy side; even if Elika is bound by corrupted tentacles or rendered unconscious, 
 she's always there to pluck you from death's cold embrace should you miss an important quick-time 
 button event (of which there are many) . But battles are still uniquely satisfying and look fantastic. 
 The prince throws Elika into the air with ease, stringing throws, slices, and magic attacks together 
 as the camera zooms in and out to showcase the slashes and backflips. The stringent enemy-focused 
 camera and odd scuttling motions of the prince feel confining but work just fine in most of these 
 battles, though they're a bit less successful during certain boss fights that require some environmental 
 manipulation.  

           With Elika along for the ride, two is never a crowd.      

  Combat's not the only thing that looks spectacular. Prince of Persia is beautiful to look at, thanks 
 to vibrant cel-shading and some sumptuous environments. Tendrils of corruption reach toward you 
 as you navigate the cold, colorless caverns of infertile regions. The contrast between these areas 
 and the beautifully lit vistas and thriving vegetation of healed locales is palpable, and the transformation 
 of a fertile ground from darkness to light may remind you of similarly impressive moments in Okami. 
 There are a few rough spots here and there, in the way of glitched animations and tiny frame rate 
 stutters, but they barely detract from the lovely visual design. While there are some minor differences, 
 all three versions look great and well represent the capabilities of their respective platforms. 
 And all three feature the same lovely ambient music, which sounds more Persian than the very American-sounding 
 prince.  

  Most will be able to finish Prince of Persia in around a dozen hours, though if you want to collect 
 every scattered light seed and avoid quick travel (you can teleport from one healed ground to another 
 instantly) , you could add a few more hours to the total. But while a few unlockable skins may not 
 seem like enough reason to return, this game is so enjoyable and delightful that you may want to 
 return to it as you would return to a favorite fantasy novel or film. While its lack of challenge 
 may lull fans, its ease of use will delight newcomers and draw in anyone who appreciates a touch 
 of magic.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (135 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LtReviews
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is undoubtedly a fun game- but if you seek fun in challenge, you may be dissapointed.
 
  
  Graphics: Nothing amazing about the tech in the graphics, but the art design is truly mind blowing- 
 and I'm not just saying backrounds that are painted into the horizon; if you see a huge floating 
 castle, bridge, tower, or mountain in the distance, you can climb it. One gameplay element- special 
 powers allowing you to climb/swing from walls or fly through certain areas, really let you soak 
 up the artistic-designed maps. Graphics aren't made to be realistic- but rather to compliment the 
 artistic design with it's vibrant colors.
  
  Story: Has it's strong points, and weak points.. Unfortunately, mostly weak. Because this game is 
 non linear (you choose which area you go to next) the story board needed to make it so no matter 
 what order you do the missions (platforming your way to the "Fertile Grounds" and defeating a boss 
 character) the story doesn't go out of order. This means there is little progression to the story. 
 You can talk to your partner, Elika, for some backround info, but because this story is completely 
 seperate from the other prince of persia games in terms of story, you may not be interested in 
 why you're doing all this.
  
  Gameplay: Fun platforming. Acrobatic motions looks smooth, without being complex. Simplicity at 
 times works to it's advantage. 90 percent of the game is just platforming- getting through impossibly 
 difficult terrain- only pressing a few buttons to do so. Once you jump on a wall, the prince runs 
 automaticly, from there, it is only a matter of pressing the correct buttons at the right time 
 when you need to swing from something, jump to another wall, grab a ledge etc. Figuring out how 
 to get across ANYTHING is easily laid out and unfortunately, this takes away the sense of accomplishment 
 from getting around styleishly. You have a partner, as well, who also becomes part of your platforming 
 mechanics (can teleport you short distances, and catch you if you fall) . She follows you the whole 
 game, without slowing you down.
  Combat dissapointing. Chaining combos LOOKS cool, but just by seeing it, you'd never guess it was 
 so easy.
  
  Overall: 7.5
  They really made some bold changes to the prince of persia series; and some of it payed off. The 
 lack of challenge is just about the only force making you want to put down the controller every 
 now and then. Plays around 15 hours total, and not much incetive to make you want to go through 
 a second play through, so I'd say rent, unless you're a big fan of the series, or can get it at 
 a good price used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lusitano1318
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Different prince, different princess, different world, same great experience. How can you replace 
 the cunning, ruthless, acrobatic, and unstoppable prince we have all learned to love? Easy, just 
 use a sarcastic, more acrobatic pimp who has a bad ass gauntlet and a really long sword. 
  You learn that your noble prince is actually a thief, more specially, a tomb raider. Despite this 
 morale less occupation, the Prince's sense of right and wrong is as strong as ever. He finds this 
 girl in desperate need of help with locking away an evil God bent on destruction. Throughout the 
 story you feel the bond between prince and princess grow, up to where they are willing to sacrifice 
 their own well being to help one another. Through their dialog you learn about her past, her deteriorating 
 kingdom, her love for the land, and her determination to stop the evil God. What I would of liked 
 to see added was more dialog. I wanted to learn more about the prince, his past, his motivations, 
 everything that has made him who he is today. I took an interest in who he is and I believe the 
 game didn't deliver that. I learned to grow on both of them and I wanted to know everything about 
 them. 
  This game does offer the same amazing platforming that we all learned to love from the previous 
 PoPs. However, this time, I believe it is done with more grace and beauty. The surrounding environment 
 is gorgeous and just watching the prince jump around it is a wonderful sight. The fighting is different 
 but still deep with plenty of combos to discover.
  Overall, this is a great game giving a more than satisfying experience. The game play is solid 
 with lovable characters that grow on you. Fans of the series might have mixed fillings but all 
 in all, this is a great game that deserves its respected and well earned credit.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia continues Ubisoft's tradition of acrobatic heroes running through crumbling architecture 
 on the precipice of oncoming disaster. Whereas the previous three titles involved an angst-ridden 
 prince trying to avert an epic fail with the time stream, this latest chapter involves a brash 
 tomb raider and a princess-turned-priestess battling against the escape of the dark god Ahriman.
 
  
  This adventure is a little less linear than previous chapters, allowing you to choose your own 
 path as you explore a land of legend plagued by Ahriman's Corruption. Certain areas won't become 
 available until you collect enough Light Seeds to unlock one of Princess Elika's powers which will 
 enable you to use plates scattered about the area to reach  sometimes literally  new heights. 
 Your only hope of spawning Light Seeds is to reach an area of fertile ground in the center of the 
 Corruption, a blackened area that spells out certain death for Prince if he lands in it. Rather 
 than wielding a Dagger of Time to reverse gamer faux pas as you swing across chasms and crawl across 
 ledges and roofs, Elika's magical powers can bring you back to the last level ground you were on. 
 (Sometimes this means repeating a LARGE area, but at least there's little chance of a GAME OVER 
 screen.)
  
  The cell-shaded animation gives Prince of Persia a sharp look, it carries a sweeping soundtrack 
 that resounds perfectly with the wide-open areas you're exploring, plus the voice acting is superb. 
 (The witty banter between Prince and Elika really carries the game, which is a good thing since 
 they're two of the only characters with speaking parts.) The epic story sweeps beyond the escape 
 of Ahriman and focuses on Elika's personal crisis of faith as everything she has ever known crumbles 
 before her eyes. There are some minor play issues where the Prince flings himself in the wrong 
 direction if the camera angle shifts too fast or too slow and if you (like me) input your command 
 too fast (or, yeah, too slow, too.) The camera occasionally obscures obstacles in your way (the 
 first time you have to run around a blind corner, you'll know what I mean) and the lever puzzles 
 are still extremely irritating, (Just remember not to rotate the analog stick; just press up or 
 down) but this is an amazing game nevertheless.
  
  Online content available at the time of this review is the Epilogue episode, which continues the 
 story for Prince and Elika. This adds a two to three hour jaunt through a linear dungeon with a 
 few more challenging obstacle runs, and it serves as a nice bridge for any future sequels with 
 these characters. For only 800 points, it's not bad, but not overly astounding, either. Don't get 
 sold on the "new powers" the description offers, as this speaks only of a new plate for Elika to 
 use that's a lot like those in the first part of the game, and Prince can now rush at opponents 
 to attack them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Np_Pro
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Disappointing. That's the word I would use (and used, in fact) to describe the new Prince of Persia.
 
  
  First, the good things. The graphics are phenomenal, if you like cel shading, which I do. The subtle 
 animations of the characters are also quite nice. The sound track is also fine, albeit a little 
 softspoken. The core platforming, which makes up the bulk of the game, is also quite good. Its 
 polished to perfection, so there are almost never glitches, and there is a good variety of moves 
 and obstacles. It is all very easy, however; jumps always seem to ark to where you need to go, 
 and your AI partner Elika can actually hurl you past a lot of the challenges by accident. The ease 
 of the game also makes it more frustrating when the platforming doesn't work, which is only occasional 
 but maddening. This is especially true when it comes to the power plates, which I shall discuss 
 later.
  
  I may be the first person to say this, but I liked the combat. It always looked superb, and there 
 was some depth to it. Yes, it had its share of problems, and there were too many quick time events, 
 but squaring off one-on-one against The Hunter, trying to land that beautiful 14 hit combo was 
 quite fun. Other bosses, like the Warrior, were less so. The problem with the combat is that, since 
 you cant die (which isnt a problem during the platforming segments) the fights have no intensity. 
 A health system would have fixed that. Also, like the rest of the game, it was repetitive. VERY 
 repetitive.
  
  Now the bad... There are three main flaws to this game. (1) Elika as your partner (2) the "free-roaming" 
 world (3) the story and ending
  
  First, Elika. Elika was designed so as to be the ideal partner: she helps you out when you fall, 
 she fights with you, and she never gets in your way. For the most part she accomplish these tasks 
 (except the last one, but she does a fair job of it) but that is exactly the problem. Elika is 
 too powerful. In most games with an AI partner, the partner drags you down and stops you from accomplishing 
 your task as you see fit. In this game, I felt like I was dragging Elika down. I dont see why she 
 needed me at all in the entire game. If you look closely, she can glide long distances! Why does 
 she need to cling to my back when we cross vines? This game could have been better had they ditched 
 the PoP name and focused the game around Elika, who you control. Instead, she just makes the game 
 unbalanced.
  
  Next, the free roaming environment. This, I feel, is what ruined the game. Because the game was 
 built so you could play any area in any order, all of the areas are identical in difficulty and 
 design. This makes the game repetitive and boring. Other PoP games had you finding new swords, 
 fighting new enemies, and encountering new traps (which there are none of in this game) . All of 
 this is thrown out the window in an attempt to cash in on the magic that is GTA. But even though 
 the free-roaming world does allow you to go anywhere you want, it does not make you feel free. 
 You are more choosing a linear level to play one after the other, and these levels feel more cramped 
 and linear than ever. Also, the design is worse. In an attempt to make the player feel like they 
 are progressing, they've added power plates and light seeds to collect. The power plates are either 
 overly simple or overly frustrating (i'm looking at you, flying yellow guy) but nonetheless boring. 
 Light seeds are what you need to collect after you heal a corrupted land, and this a big problem. 
 Once a land is healed, most of the obstacles vanish. You spend 25% of your time fighting enemies 
 and dealing with deadly corruption, but the rest of your time is spent hopping about through the 
 butterflies searching for light seeds (which there are too many of for it to be a challenge) . All 
 of these problems would have been solved by making the game nice and linear like a PoP game should 
 be.
  
  Finally, the story. It is abysmal. The protagonists are irritating and unfunny, and thats about 
 it for them (although Elika is quite attractive for a cel shaded woman) . The plot is both cliche 
 and almost nonexistant. The story revolves around you trying to stop the evil Ahriman from escaping 
 from a Tree of Life, but he already is, but you need to slow his escape by healing fertile grounds. 
 The names are ridiculous (Ahura, Ormazd, Ahrmian, fertile grounds, etc.) and the entire plot is 
 almost an exact (albeit lame) copy of Terry Brooks's "The Elfstones of Shannara." And because of 
 the aforementioned free-roaming problem, the plot advances a total of three times in the entire 
 game. The real problem, though, is the games conclusion. The final boss is anything but thrilling 
 (thanks to the good 'ole free-roaming problem, which prevent the game from escalating up until 
 that point, and they certainly couldn't start making it challenging only at the very end) and the 
 ending itself, which I wont give away, is horrendous. And I enjoyed the ending of Assassin's Creed! 
 The ending assumes that the player cares, like you care in ICO, but I didn't. So I have come to 
 the conclusion that Rhianna Pratchett cant make compelling characters (she wrote the dialogue for 
 this and wrote all of Mirror's Edge) . And then they expect me to pay $10 for the epilogue, well, 
 no thank you, I'll just go back to Fable 2.
  
  In short, this game took a great franchise, tore off its body, and around its heart and soul assembled 
 a new, hideous creature using pieces from other games that work great in their original games, 
 but not here. And the monster speaks like an idiot. But if that core gameplay of run-jump-wallrun-die-repeat 
 is that important to you, its still there. Just don't expect it to be easy to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiwahib
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, this was the first Prince of Persia game that I played. I always toyed with others in 
 the series, but something always came up.
  
  From the opening scene I felt like it was going to be something special. I loved the art style 
 and it fit in with the surreal atmosphere.
  
  It was then I started to notice the hand holding through the game. Many times I was told what buttons 
 to press and when to press a trigger to block, and the game was very forgiving on timing jumps, etc. 
 But hey that didn't matter anyway because YOU COULDN'T DIE. I found myself jumping off all kinds 
 of things just to see if I could get away with it. On the up side its a great way to take a look 
 see and find areas to reach.
  
  Things were becoming monotonous also. Everything was starting to look the same and the easiness 
 of the jumping puzzles just made everything boring.
  
  I wish I had the intestinal fortitude to tough it to the end of the story, but i'll be seeing the 
 end on NexGenWalkthrughs. My recommendation is to 7 day rent and not buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 1:50 am PT
Review:  It's amazing what one minor change to a game can make. 
  Had Ubisoft decided to let the Prince die everytime he falls from a platform or jumps off a ledge 
 then the overall feeling of this game may have been very different. But instead you are saved time 
 and time again by Elika, your female companion and brought back to the nearest solid ground. 
 
  
  So whats the difference? 
  Surely dieing and having to wait to be respawned in the same position as you would anyway has no 
 greater difference, other than longer reload times? But this one change is what makes Prince of 
 Persia a great game you play with rather than an amazing game YOU control.
  
  What you are presented with however, is a beautiful, tight, highly enjoyable and fresh take on 
 the POP games that has a great story as well. 
  For anyone who is a fan of the POP or Tomb raider series, there are enough leaps and jumps to feed 
 your hunger, though you may find it all a bit samey, with no feeling of danger or much progression 
 in the type of obstacles you face. Again it's the lack of death that means there is no real sense 
 that you are taking a leap of faith in your next decision, as if you get it wrong you are not penalised.
 
  Throw in Boss battles that become repetitive and tedious (you find yourself fighting the same 
 enemy 4 times at different stages of the game) and it should add up to a game that is boring and 
 uninviting.
  
  But here's the beauty of the new Prince of Persia.
  For all the bad points that should put you off from buying it, there's enough charm and originality 
 in it's storyline to overwhelm the negative and make this a must own for anyone who wants to enjoy 
 a truely beautiful game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:46 am PT
Review:  Seeing as I've never been very good with platformers it's no surprise I've never been a big Prince 
 of Persia fan despite the fascinating settings. Generally platforming equals frustration for me, 
 though Assassin's Creed showed me that a game could be fun if the platforming came naturally enough. 
 This is what I was hoping for in PoP so I took a chance and bought the game based on what I heard 
 from other players.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8.0) - Just as I had hoped the incredible acrobatics in this game were for the most part 
 quite easy to pull off after you get used to the controls, and this did not take long as they were 
 set up quite naturally. Leaps, wall runs and even ceiling runs become second nature very quickly. 
 As you probably know the Princess becomes an integral part of the action as she can enable you 
 to do double leaps in midair as well as preventing you from ever dieing. Some have criticized this 
 but it actually works out great. You never have to repeat huge sections of the game over and over 
 again until you manage to get it right. You can save when you want to as long as you are on a solid 
 ledge. You do have to repeat small segments until you manage to make the jumps but they aren't 
 too tough. She also has the ability to show you the right direction in case you lose your way. 
 Combat is also straight-forward. Each button performs a basic action from a sword attack to a "gauntlet" 
 attack that launches your enemy in the air, and combos can be strung together to perform more damaging 
 attacks. The animation here is fantastic, especially when you string together several combos. 
 
  
  GRAPHICS (9.0) - The first rate graphics and character animation are incredible and have to be 
 seen on an HDTV to be truly appreciated. The comic-book cel-shaded graphics look nothing at all 
 like the Prince games on last gen consoles which might worry some fans but those worries should 
 be put to rest because not only is the acrobatic animation superbly executed, the game as a whole 
 is simply stunning to look at it's truly a beautiful game. 
  
  AUDIO (8.0) - Most of the conversations in this game are actually optional, which is a shame since 
 many people will probably miss out on some excellent voicework. I wasn't sure at first about my 
 protagonist as he came off as the typical overconfident mercenary type but I admit he grew on me 
 and became likable as the story moves on. Sound effects were decent and the soundtrack was terrific, 
 deserving of a CD purchase.
  
  VALUE (8.0) - This game took me somewhere between 10-12 hours. Not much reason to replay except 
 to enjoy the game again or to try to collect all of the scattered light seeds which give achievements 
 with every 100 you collect. The game does offer some bonus costumes after completion, and by registering 
 with Ubisoft i was able to unlock an Altair costume which is a nice touch.
  
  SUMMARY - I won't go into detail concerning the story as it should be experienced for yourself 
 but suffice to say there is an interesting storyline which becomes more intense as your concern 
 for the characters grow over the course of the game. With the relatively short playing time I can't 
 necessarily recommend this to everyone at full price but when the game becomes a bit more affordable 
 I do think this is one that just about everyone should give a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 6:16 am PT
Review:  When I saw trailers and screenshots of Prince of Persia and the new main character I knew that 
 I will love this game and I was right. This Prince of Persia is the best game of the year 2009! 
 I just love each aspect of this title. But let's start from the beginning.
  
  I didn't play the previous Prince of Persia games except the title from SNES and demo Sands of 
 Time but I know that the main character from Sands of Times, Warrior Within and the Two Thrones 
 was a dark and serious person. Now I'm glad that Ubisoft have changed him. The new Prince is very 
 different. Now he's like Ali Baba from "Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves", Indiana Jones, even like 
 Dante from Devil May Cry 3. I always say this that I just love funny characters and I'm so happy 
 that the new Prince is a funny person  Awesome job Ubisoft! New Prince is an easy-going and a 
 carefree guy, but he's also very brave and a fantastic warrior, a type of a rebellious hero  I 
 just love characters like him. So the game starts when Prince falls down the cliff and "meets" 
 Elika hehe. Yeah, Elika is a princess and she's so beautiful, I just love her. We will cooperate 
 with her the whole game because she has special powers from Ormazd (god of light) . By those powers 
 she can heal the grounds from the power of Ahryman  god of darkness or something like that hehe. 
 Anyway, Elika has really cool powers by which we can fly, run on walls and do similar superb things. 
 She will also save us from death. It's awesome that Elika is in the game (man, she's so beautiful 
 hehe) . I really like the conversations between her and Prince, they are really funny. The story 
 is great, I really like it because it's like a fairy tale. Gorgeous and beautiful locations that 
 we will visit are just unforgettable and jaw dropping. For example, the place with windmills, or 
 the castle at night and huge moon above it orthe city of light. These places are so fantastic that 
 you will remember them for a long time I'm sure. The combat in the game is well done. There aren't 
 many battles but if there are some, then they are very spectacular. There are four bosses In Prince 
 of Persia  Warrior, really huge and strong (made of stone) , Concubine (she has the ability of 
 hypnosis) , Alchemist and Hunter (he has a huge and deadly weapon which is similar to the scissors) . 
 There are also Ahryman's guards made of corruption. Elika using her powers can heal the corrupted 
 grounds from the power of Ahryman and then we have to collect light seeds. Elika needs those light 
 seeds to gain more power. When we fight with boss there are some QTE (Quick Time Events) which 
 I love. Also in the battle we have to cooperate with Elika and I tell you, Elika and Prince make 
 really outstanding comboses together, very spectacular as I said before, they create really awesome 
 team together. Of course new Prince of Persia is a game where we have many situations like jumping, 
 running on walls, cooperating with Elika so she can use her power to fly with you and etc. It's 
 really awesome and looks great, so there are less fighting, more jumping, running walls. But it's 
 not a minus of the game, no, as I said the battles are very spectacular and doing acrobatic things 
 as Prince is also great.
  I can say that the game's ending is just unforgettable and amazing, you will see. Also there are 
 some puzzles in the game which are really good and interesting. 
  
  The graphics in the game are just amazing. The cell-shading style of graphics is gorgeous, Ubi-Soft 
 made a perfect job. Character models look great, the environment is fantastic. Each location in 
 the game is just beautiful, especially when Elika is healing the grounds from Ahryman's power. 
 It's just amazing how the locations look so superb. The castle at night and huge moon above, big 
 windmills in Alchemist's place, the City of Light with lava around, outstanding! The places look 
 like as if they were just taken from fairy tales.
  
  The music in the game is very atmospheric, it's a masterpiece no doubt. This Prince of Persia has 
 one of the best music I have ever heard in any games. The soundtrack in the game gives an amazing 
 feelings. The voice acting is very well done. Prince is funny, Elika acts like a real prince, her 
 father with strong voice, yeah, it's great.
  
  Overall new Prince of Persia is the best of all Prince of Persia games created through this time. 
 It has beautiful Elika and funny, brave warrior Prince. Fantastic story, spectacular fightings, 
 unforgettable places, amazing music, memorable bosses, great graphics. Playing this game is like 
 taking part in the most beautiful and amazing fairy tale ever! Just Unforgettable and spectacular 
 title! Game of the year 2008 no doubt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axlinscotland
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I love Sands of time, the narrative, the graphics, the voice acting, everything... But Prince of 
 Persia 2008 is nothing more than a bunch of ideas put along a bad story and great, great beautiful 
 graphics in a prince of Persia environment. In certain moment you will see yourself not even using 
 the analog pads but only pressing one botton to go through the walls, you don't need accuracy or 
 skill, it is everything done by the engine... just boring.
  
  I sold it for 8, nobody would give me more because noboby buys it. That's why I can't believe 
 it is rated 8, other 8 rated games sell a lot better due to higher demand.
  
  Another thing that bothers me is that in order to follow the story you must be asking Alika all 
 the time about, why this and why that and how this bla bla bla and surprisingly she knows everything 
 with so much details... a total not human way, basicaly she repeats like a robot.
  
  Seriously, if you love Sands of Time, you will hate this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezing_Knight
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 2:32 am PT
Review:  I hoped this game was like the old classic PoP thats in Xbox Live, but in the end I found an invincible 
 unnamed prince in a lonely kingdom.
  
  The story begins when the prince meets by accident Elika, which is being attacked by some soldiers, 
 the prince (who is really a thief :D ) decides to defend her and blablabla, and they end up joining 
 together because some evil god or spirit (i dont care) who is locked up in a temple is trying to 
 get out and conquer the world. The story is not great, but its not the main problem.
  
  To keep him shut, they most travel through the surrounding kingdom and "heal" the land, and you 
 do this by reaching certain point and fighting a boss, after you defeat the boss and the land is 
 healed, some light balls appear, you have to collect certain number to unlock abilities that will 
 help you reach further areas of the realm, now repeat this process 20 times and you have your game. 
 
  
  Honestly, i dont know whats got into Ubisoft and its monotonous games (Assassins Creed and this) . 
 The combat is also monotonous and terrible, basically you alternate buttons to make a combo until 
 you cant chain a single attack anymore, if the enemy counterattacks, dont worry, the defend button 
 (LT) appears on screen, so you can counterattack or simply defend and try again until you can make 
 a combo again. Besides, the prince CANT DIE, the worst thing that can happen is that the enemy 
 will gain some HP if the prince "dies". There are four bosses in the entire game, you fight about 
 five or six times each. Theres just one "normal" enemy per sub stage, you can avoid fighting it 
 by being quick. And thats all about combat.
  
  The platforming is the only really enjoyable part of the game, but its pretty easy too. The prince 
 can wall-run, jump, hang on rings on walls, ceilings, etc. There are no traps or spikes and the 
 prince cant die either, since always elika saves him if you fail a jump. When the land is healed, 
 the light balls I mentioned before appear in zones you've already passed through, since you need 
 them to advance in the game, you are force to backtrack, adding more monotony and boredom to the 
 game.
  
  On top of that you have to pay a DLC if you want to watch the ending of the game, that sucks and 
 its ridiculous, im not paying 60 bucks for the game to begin with. 
  
  Id only recommend to rent this game for those introducing into gaming and dont have any experience 
 with any game at all. Others stay away from it, its not worth your money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game at all. However, it's lightweight compared to Prince of Persia Sands of Time trilogy. 
 If you are a fan of PoP Sands of Time, don't expect too much from this one.
  All throughout the game, I could not help but feel that Ubisoft tried hard to keep costs down. 
 Very poor, one on one combat. The awesome free form fighting system of the previous ones has been 
 dumped. Puzzle solving almost nonexistent. The only thing that is left is a lot of acrobatics. 
 The Prince is agile as usual.
  As someone who has played Prince of Persia Sands of Time trilogy (multiple times) I could not help 
 but feel disappointment. However, I am sure it is still better than a lot of other games, especially 
 if you have not played the previous PoP releases you will not feel what I felt.
  I don't recommend to buy it though. Rent it first or buy second hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antidon2000
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I'm not what you would call a huge Prince of Persia because I have only played The Sands of Time 
 on the Gamecube. Now that was a well done game. Back during release it built new grounds for action 
 gaming with the whole rewind thing and all the acrobatic movies the prince could pull off. This 
 game, however, totally contradicts all that.
  
  Lets start off by saying what everyone else is saying. Yes, this game is pretty too look at but 
 not anything special, especially with the characters design. Not that the character design sucked 
 but I've come to expect better in this gaming generation. Of coarse this game is more identical 
 to Assassin's Creed than the other Prince of Persia games. Not only because it's used with the 
 same gaming engine but that it is HIGHLY repetitive. What I mean is that the game has you do the 
 same things over and over again. That is something I also hated about Assassin's Creed. So I don't 
 care if it has pretty environments if I'm forced to collect those glowing orb things.
  
  In almost every game review I've read it is always mentioned how easy this game is. I didn't find 
 this game to be totally cheesecake easy as gamespot does, but then again I don't play as many games 
 as they do. The level of difficulty wasn't so much the problem as much as how limited the action 
 was. Basically there is no leveling up with the prince and therefore he has the same sword and 
 the same moves in the entire game. A few pop in here and there but trust me it's not much.
  
  I'm running out of room so I'll finish say that this game should have been renamed Princess 
 of Persia because the so called "prince" wasn't actually a PRINCE! He's nothing more than a cocky 
 wanderer who happens to find the very beautiful Elika. She was probably the greatest highlight 
 for me because I liked having her around as support and getting to know her better. That is pretty 
 much the games only strong point, and even that isn't enough to save this poorly crafted game. 
 I don't regret playing it though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th3warr1or
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:53 am PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the series I was looking forward to this game. As far as the story and level 
 design is concerned I got what I expected from this series. But those elements just barely carried 
 me to the end of it.
  
  The game basically felt like a rail-shooter more than a platformer.. Pressing A would simply warp 
 you to said location; and there was a set path to travel... True; this was more open world than 
 previous Prince of Persia games, but it was really linear, and the combat was a mediocre button 
 masher hitting Quick-Time events ... 
  
  The witty dialogue and the love-hate relationship with the Prince and Elika was really interesting 
 and what kept me going; this was actually the first video game I felt that the characters had chemistry.. 
 
  
  Rather for casual gamers than hardcore fans of the series, Prince of Persia doesn't seek to impress, 
 but doesn't disappoint either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  I like this game, but it does have its weaknesses. Along with the above mentioned issues, I found 
 that this game can get a little monotonous as you move from area to area essentially doing the 
 same thing. I love the acrobatic stuff; that's fun. Very much like Tomb Raider. But combat is much 
 less satisfying. There's a limited number of moves and the controls are extremely sluggish. There 
 are defensive moves that can be performed via a mini-game technique; but (at least on the XBox 
 360) the reaction time window was so short that you rarely got to perform them (unless you could 
 pick up in the visual cinematic clues that sometimes indicate what defensive maneuver you'll need 
 to perform) . It takes a while to get through this game just because there are so many areas to 
 travel to and so many of the Light Seeds that you need to collect. But the visuals are stunning 
 and sometimes it's just fun to look at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastersword007
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  As I've played every other Prince of Persia game (Several times) , I couldn't wait for this one. 
 It started out well, since I immediately got drawn into the game. I liked the characters (somewhat) , 
 the graphics were great and the soundtrack was good.
  Really, there aren't many bad things with the game, except the fact that it nearly plays itself.
 
  
  
  Graphics - 9:
  It might not be the best looking game on the 360 (Or PS3 for that matter) , but that definitely 
 does not mean that it looks bad. No, in fact, the game looks great. You can just gaze into the 
 mountains in the back or climb up some tower and look around you. Its different from the other 
 games in some way and there are little to no graphical glitches. Simply put, it's not the most 
 expensive (eye) candy, but it sure as hell is sweet.
  
  Sound - 7:
  I must say, It good. However, I can't remember any of them. I still remember a few of the first 
 one, because there were memorable ones. These however are just 'good'. They usually blend in with 
 the situation, but they're too 'American'. We're in the middle of a desert-like environment, yet 
 even the characters sound like cocky Americans, trying to be witty and throwing out sarcasm at 
 every moment. Simply put, the sounds are nice, but nothing special and do not blend in with the 
 environment.
  
  Story (Possible spoilers) - 6:
  What is there to say. It's absolutely nothing special. You good guy, she good guy. Big bad guy 
 wants to get out. You stop bad guy by restoring the lock. I'm not spoiling anything about the ending, 
 though. Some things aren't even explained carefully.
  So yeah, it lacks somewhat in this department. Too simple. Nothing bad, but nothing special.
 
  
  Gameplay - 4: 
  This is where it fails.
  The difficulty is simply ridiculous! Go into any battle with the prince (Random enemy or boss, 
 it doesn't matter) .
  Now, go set yourself some coffee, eat a sammich, go outside and take a walk, let your dog out, 
 cure aids, end war, find extraterrestrial life on urANUS, win an oscar, become a moviestar and 
 get married.
  Then come back and take a look at the screen. Yep, that's right. You're still alive.
  What's 
 the point of putting enemies in a game if you're turned into an unbeatable god? No matter how big, 
 strong or fast they are, the only thing they can do is take a bit of your time. They can't beat 
 you, you've already won. You just need some time to deplete his or her life bar. Most games make 
 you try and not die, but you don't have to do that here. It simply drains the challenge.
  
  Yes, you usually have only one way to get from point A to B in PoP games, but there still is a 
 huge difference between the new game and the old ones. The old ones sometimes make you think, even 
 if it's just a second. 'Hmm, will I make it there or is there some other way to get there?'. Can 
 you get such a thought in this new game if you have an IQ of over 50? No, you can't. They even 
 tell you what to do by putting up certain tips on walls and stuff to make sure you don't die (Like 
 stripes on the wall to show that you need to wall-run there) Besides, pressing the Y button tells 
 you exactly what to do anyway. If you're in the middle of a stunt, you'll know exactly what to 
 do, because the answer is thrown right in your face at the speed of light. There's no way you could 
 miss it. You might press the wrong button by accident, but your arm will be molested immediately 
 by another arm appearing out of nowhere and you'll be put back on the last platform you were on. 
 Try again! No penalties whatsoever!
  
  Speaking of simple, I actually did nearly all stunt with just ONE FINGER. You don't need to hold 
 down a button when you're wall-running, you don't need to hold a to jump up when hitting the side 
 of the platform. It grabs the platform for you! Walking on a thin piece of wood with DEATH, PISS 
 AND BLOOD right underneath you? Dont worry; the game will make sure you don't fall off. Swinging 
 off a pole? Just press A and he'll just jump ten miles immediately. WHO NEEDS SPEED ANYWAY?
  
  Remember a ton of enemies running at you to tear your head off? Forget those, you won't be 
 fighting more than one enemy at the same time. Speaking of enemies, there aren't even many (Around 
 25 in the entire game) and you can even stop them from appearing! THAT'S RIGHT! If you're fast 
 enough, the only enemies in the game will be bosses!
  
  Speaking of bosses! There are only 4 real bosses in this game. You have to fight each one of them 
 about six times and don't worry, the way they fight will not change. The only new attack all enemies 
 learn is to spit oil (corruption) in your face, semi-blinding you temporarily. Doesn't really matter 
 though, you can't die anyway. In fact, there is not real difference between normal enemies and 
 bosses (Except 'The Warrior') except the amount of HP they have.
  
  There is no difference between going to Land A or B first anyway. They're pretty much the same, 
 only with a few differences in the environment. I'm talking about puzzles too. All of the puzzles 
 are the same, only with another skin (Turn this and that to get these into the right position) .
 
  
  Speaking of being linear, you'll actually be doing the same thing over and over again in order 
 to get to the final boss. Visit and heal the land by reaching this place and fighting the 'boss' 
 and just finger the Y button until it's done. Repeat somewhere else. New swords, characters, attacks 
 or secrets? Nope, nothing at all. The beginning of the game is the same as the ending when it comes 
 to gameplay.
  
  Combat system? Remember the excellent combat system from the older Prince of Persia's? Those where 
 you could run up a wall, jump over an enemy and forcibly stick the point of your sword into its 
 anus? The stunts you could do like firing yourself at the enemy like a spear by using the wall? 
 Those 360 degree turns at poles, cutting everything close to you? Jumping over an enemy to make 
 sure the the other one doesn't hit you and rape the first one in the process? All those stuff are 
 removed.
  
  The new game uses a different kind of combat system, which can be explained very easily.
  Attack. 
 If your attack gets deflected, deflect right back and attack again. Repeat.
  
  This works for every enemy in the game. Yes, you don't need a new strategy for the bosses either, 
 since they all fight the same way. The exact same way like the normal enemies.
  
  
  Value -6:
  You can buy the game for some fun, but it as hell is NOT worth 60 bucks. Even for 
 people who are into getting achievements, you'll probably play the game twice to get them all and 
 never touch them again. Perhaps it's worth for die-hard PoP fans (Like me) , but those will most 
 likely get disappointed.
  
  Conclusion - 6.5:
  A disappointment compared to the previous games. Worth borrowing from a friend, but not worth buying. 
 Spend your money on better things.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhine_joe
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 7, 2009 1:45 am PT
Review:  Oh boy, this game is such a disappointment. 
  
  Yes, the art design is beautiful, the animation smooth, and the platforming fun. The truth however, 
 is that the game never lives up to the high mark set by The Sands of Time (Sadly, none of the Prince 
 of Persia games that follow did) . The designers decided to steal everything they could from Team 
 Ico's extraordinary creations and in doing so lost what made PoP special to begin with. All great 
 artists steal, but it is only justifiable if you outdo the original.
  
  Sadly, the new Prince fails to outdo anything it takes from Team Ico, and it should also be mentioned, 
 Okami. The idea to make combat around boss battles is derivative here because with the exception 
 of the warrior, the strategy is the same for the other three every time you encounter them. Fortunately, 
 the confrontations tend to be brief. 
  
  Credit is due with the characters though. Elika is a fully realized female character, a rarity 
 in gaming. Her exchanges with the Prince are often funny, and when not, the excellent voice work 
 sells even the cheesiest of dialogue. 
  
  While the breathtaking, massive landscape justifies the open world from the design point, the platforming 
 suffers for it. Gone are all the intricate puzzles and clever environmental interaction that made 
 Sands of Time great. The environment is never hard to figure out and there are few instances of 
 challenges, often in the way of incredibly frustrating flight/run sections. 
  
  Most troubling are the multiple glitches in the game. I was victim of the now infamous temple glitch, 
 which has the incredibly annoying effect of keeping you from finishing the game after taking out 
 the four corrupted. I wasn't involved with the storyline, which has none of the elegance of the 
 Sands of Time, but I was engaged with the Prince and Elika's budding relationship, hoping to see 
 some resolution of their growing feelings in the ending. 
  
  There's a lot to like here for those who enjoy platform gaming, it's just that the numerous glitches, 
 poor implementation of stolen ideas, and repetitive gameplay (a worrisome trend in Ubisoft games) , 
 bring the game down a couple notches for me. 
  As with Assassin's Creed, the foundations are there for a great game. The compelling characters, 
 tight controls, and beautiful art design deserve a better game than this. We deserve a better game, 
 and hopefully Ubisoft will deliver with the inevitable sequel. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XenephusVC
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out I was really excited. I had been a die hard fan of Prince of Persia since 
 the Sands of Time, but honestly it... didn't give me what I wanted. These are the major flaws.
 
  
  Combat doesn't offer me a challenge. WHY?! BECAUSE YOU CAN"T DIE! Who was the guy who came up with 
 that? If you are fighting, and can't die than there is nothing motivating you to play the game, 
 and it isn't worth playing anymore!
  
  Fail plot. I expected to be fighting the regular robbers, and bandits like the original games, 
 but your fighting this guy named Ahriman!? What's wrong with that!? Honestly its dum and it really 
 gets boring really fast.
  
  And there's nothing else to say bad game don't try and don't waste 50 dollars on it like I did. 
 Save it for Call of Duty 5 like I should have done.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemaproblema
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is too easy, too short... and all together you fight only 5 people! What happent to the 
 old price styiling game? All those guards, all the combo attack and not this fake animated fight... 
 so sad. I forgot to mention that you cannot die in this game, what is the purpose on trying hard 
 if everyday you fell you can just start right again in the same point? (or 2 jumps before) .
  This not dieing thing also spoil the fights (which are already so rare) and turn the defence button 
 as a totally uselless button...
  Elika sometimes gets in the way when you have to clim some rock or make some platforming actions.
 
  I finished the guy just to see the end of the story... this looks more as a prequel to another 
 prince rather than a game itself.
  12 hours game, too easy and repetitive, definetly to rent it first.
  8 is too far a high score 
 for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GC-Ubernoob
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Before I start this review I'd just like to point out the fan of Ubisoft Montreal I once was. When 
 Prince of Persia the Sands of Time came out it was my favorite game and remained so for a number 
 of years. I also bought the sequels Prince of Persia Warrior Within and Prince of Persia The Two 
 Thrones. Including there platform re releases of WW on the PSP and Two Throne's release on the 
 Wii and PSP. I enjoyed played all of those games to the point of insanity. To move on I also purchased 
 Assassin's Creed when it was released. I thought the game was over rated but a good game none the 
 less. So naturally I would enjoy the Princes return to video games. I'm just going to start out 
 by saying Prince of Persia is by no means a bad game. The graphics are extremely immersive and 
 the game play is a lot of fun even though the game got repetitive a little way through I enjoyed 
 it still. Then I got to the end. The ending boss battle was a lot of fun and I was sure that this 
 would go down as one of my favorite games considering the other Prince of Persia games and the 
 fan i was of those. Not even the much complained about ending of the game made me lose faith in 
 the game. I actually enjoyed the ending. I accepted it for what it was because of the epilogue 
 and the hours of game play that were supposed to come with it. Well the epilogue came and I bought 
 it off of XBL Market, started to play it and was enjoying it because I was promised to have a closure 
 to the story. Alas however the epilogue ends on yet another cliff hanger and it was so much worse 
 than the ending to the game it self. So if you don't mind spending the money on the game and buying 
 the epilogue for the extremely repetitive game play and declining story then you might enjoy Prince 
 of Persia. Where did Ubisoft Montreal go wrong? They went from doing something different with games 
 to declining to the mainstream whoring for money off of shiny graphics and a below mediocre story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caboose84
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:57 am PT
Review:  Okay, this game is amazing. There's amazing and beautiful enviornments, a large open world, (could 
 be alot bigger) great art style graphics, a good story and a good fighting system.
  
  You're an un-named Prince, who is lost in a sandstorm looking for his lost donkey, Pharra (I believe 
 it's spelled like that) who is carrying large amounts of gold. You stumble across the Princess, 
 Elika, who is being chased by some soldiers sent by her father. You help her out and take her back 
 to her Palace. Her father shows up and destroys the seal, holding the evil god, Arimahn (again, 
 not sure with spelling) who is released and spreads corruption to the land. You then must travel 
 to each four locations (each holding 6 corrupted fertile grounds and a boss corrupted) and restore 
 the light by using the fertile grounds and defeating the boss corrupted.
  In order to gain access to new areas, you must collect a certain amount of Light Seeds which give 
 Elika her power back, and lets you obtain access to palets which will let you reach new, earlier 
 unreachable locations, thus allowing you to progress through the game. There are a total amount 
 of 1001 light seeds, the last only being available at the end of the game. There are also unlockable 
 costumes for each character; Prince costumes, Prince-already unlocked, Sands of Time Prince-Use 
 your pre-order code in the extras menu or get an already used code from a friend or go to a cheat 
 or faq website and find a code (codes may be re-used) , Altair-go into the unlockables menu, register 
 your game to Ubi. com after loging in or creating a new account and unlock the costume, Prototype 
 Prince, beat the game and collect all 1001 light seeds. Princess costumes, Elika-already unlocked, 
 SoT Pincess-Same as SoT Prince, Jade Princess-beat the game, Prototype Princess-same as Prototype 
 Prince.
  The game features a new combat system so you won't be fighting more than one enemy at once. Each 
 enemy is like a mini boss who can be killed instantly when knocked into a wall or off a ledge.
 
  
  If you like this game, then look forward to playing it's sequal in 2 years or so, I give the game 
 a solid 10/10. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: needs-a-life
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  all right here i go a review for the new prince of persia. where do i start. ok first off the game 
 is fun and highly addicting its easy to get into and something that you wont get bored of after 
 a while. ill start by saying this the game looks suberb it really does look just like a moving 
 painting. the character modules are very well done and the envirenments are beutiful. ok now for 
 the somewhat hard part. the game is just way to easy. the combos are easy to pull off the platforming 
 is just one button and there is no dying so there is no game over screen. you also have to understand 
 that the game was designed for begginer players that are new to the prince of persia games. although 
 there is no connection with this one and the old ones. the only thing that connects the games is 
 the name farah which is actually the name of the "princes" donkey. the story is given in small 
 tidbits and you have access to on demand dialoge which is a very interesting feature for the game, 
 it allows you to talk with elika almost anytime, the exceptions being boss fights and platforming. 
 towards the end of the game you will more likely favor elika towards the actuall prince, whos name 
 is never actually mentioned. an interesting thing that was implemented into the gameplay would 
 be the gauntlet. it allows you to slide down vertical walls and intereract witl the corroption 
 just a bit. the game is just to easy and there arent many fighting sections unfortunatlly but it 
 will captivate you with its beutifull textures and paint like style. i would have to say its a 
 must buy if you are looking for an interesting experince that can be put down for a while, or help 
 you relax. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Before the game had released it looked to be an average Action Adventure game with a different 
 twist to the graphics, this is what got me interested in the new Prince of Persia. After playing 
 it i wasn't disappointed, yes i do admit that it is short and got the complete it under 12 hours 
 achievement in the first run through of the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game play is your average Action Adventure/ Platform game nothing special from the last Prince 
 of Persia Trilogy, but it has been done where you only fight one enemy at a time and where Elika 
 helps you with a extended jump, it is fun to play and this key element isn't lost through the game 
 it just dips a little when having to go round previous areas looking for the light seeds to progress 
 to the next fertile grounds.
  
  Graphics:
  As mentioned there is a twist to the graphics to this game, it has been done as the artists drew 
 it and that has been put into the graphics and in my opinion it works very well with the game and 
 nicely with the next gen graphics. Its not the most amazing looking game in the market but it dose 
 stand out from the regular graphics games.
  
  Sound:
  The sound of the game was very well made and the soundtrack was awesome. the only flaw i have for 
 it is that why do they sound American when there obviously not American?? apart from that it was 
 perfect.
  
  Story:
  I liked the way that you learn more about Elika when you are going to the different fertile grounds 
 with a new power and find out that she has already died. Apart from that it is just an average 
 story, big evil trying to escape from an imprisonment, unlikely hero and he meets a girl and they 
 go and save the day.
  
  Value for your cash moneys:
  I would say that it is worth a buy but only if you are a Prince of Persia fan if you are new to 
 the whole series i would get it cheap just so you can decide for yourself if you like it and if 
 you don't you wont feel ripped off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gianfrancox9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game was great, awesome graphics, good combos and controls, and the story was ok.
  Is totally different from the SOT trilogy, new prince, new story, new combos. If you are going 
 to play t you have to be prepared for something completely new.
  I know that a lot of people did not like the game, but for me it was one of the best games i have 
 ever played (Y) . 
  The graphics were incredible, i stopped many times during the game just to watch the view.
  The 
 combos were very good, a new combat style, very acrobatic and the controls made the fight easy.
 
  The story... i think that the intro should be better, with Elika in another place, running, telling 
 the story or something like that.
  When she met the prince everything happened too fast, so for the second part there is a little 
 work to do in that part.
  I think that it was great to fight the bosses a lot of times before killing them so you can know 
 something about there story, etc
  If you have 60$ in your wallet or your birthday is coming, you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Game_King
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  In the gaming world, many games earn the status of ALMOST perfect. Often, a game will have several 
 great factors that could add up to perfection if not for a few minor flaws. No game demonstrates 
 this better than the latest Prince of Persia. The cheesy story and minor platforming issues keep 
 the new Prince of Persia from being an otherwise perfect game.
  
  The game's first flaw comes up even before buying the game: the Limited Edition that came with 
 pre-ordering from GameStop. It comes with a bonus disc and a few codes for extra skins. The bonus 
 disc contains speed drawings, behind the scenes videos, and a portion of the Prima strategy guide. 
 None of this really adds to the value of the game. The only aspect that could affect the game itself 
 is the Prima guide, and that is more of a tutorial than something that could help you through any 
 portion of the game. Given the fact that the Prince of Persia already includes a tutorial, regardless 
 of whether or not it is a Limited Edition, this makes the Limited Edition simply not worth it.
 
  
  However, the game itself is very high quality, even if the story is sub-par. The game starts with 
 the eponymous Prince running through the desert before running into the enigmatic Elika. After 
 a series of unlucky events, both are roped into a "save the world" quest. Along the way, the Prince 
 spews out some of the worst dialogue heard in any video game. Every one of the Prince's quips feels 
 like a forced, clichd piece of Hollywood dialogue, trying to be clever but falling flat on its 
 face. While no other character utters lines nearly as bad, those said by the Prince almost ruin 
 the story. Although to its credit, the plot itself is OK. Every character feels like they have 
 their purpose (even if they are somewhat shallow, as is the case with Elika) , and the heavy Zoroastrianism 
 influences give it an air of authenticity. The only major flaw (besides the Prince's dialogue) 
 is the ending. Without spoiling anything, it has potential for greatness, but completely ruins 
 it by destroying everything for which you ever worked. The icing on the cake is that the game forces 
 you to do this, making the failure seem even more necessary.
  
  Despite a mediocre storyline, Prince of Persia's gameplay is top-notch. As always, you run through 
 a gamut of linear levels, running on walls and generally displaying a wide array of acrobatic techniques. 
 What makes it all work is how well the concept is pulled off; everything, from the moves to the 
 level design, feels 100% natural, never forced. Running through each stage is pure bliss, and every 
 element is used to great effect. Sure, the red and blue power plates feel can feel like lazy game 
 design, but near the end of the game, they are put to excellent and creative use. 
  
  Yet Prince of Persia squanders it with regular fetch quests. In order to progress through the game, 
 you need to activate special power plates that allow access to new areas. In order to activate 
 the plates, a certain number of light seeds are needed. It is impossible to obtain the required 
 amount just by playing the game at a natural pace and since they do not appear until after a level 
 is complete, this means going back to previous levels, scrounging every nook and cranny for that 
 one light seed needed to move on with the game. For a game that seems to be about flow, Prince 
 of Persia does not seem to understand that this tactic severely hampers the continuity of each 
 level. Another flaw with the level design is the open world aspect. While it supports the natural 
 feeling that Prince of Persia establishes, it does not do so very well. There's a feature that 
 allows you to teleport to previously completed levels, and while this may sound convenient (and 
 it is) , it completely undermines the open world aspect of the game. Although you need to complete 
 a level to teleport back to it, often times you can teleport to a nearby level instead.
  
  Likewise, the combat is excellent, if at the same time flawed. At first, combat feels too cinematic; 
 you will feel like your button presses are contributing very little to what is actually happening 
 on screen. In time, however, Prince of Persia's fighting system turns out to be fairly deep and 
 fun to use. The Prince has three forms of attack: a gauntlet, Elika's magic, and his sword. Combined 
 with an acrobatic escape move, the fighting system allows for a bevy of easily performed combos. 
 Despite the fact that it does not connect at all to the platforming (was not this how the series 
 began, though?) , it still manages to be a blast to use. 
  
  The only real problem with the combat (and a major problem with the game in general) is the lack 
 of death. When the Prince misses a jump or does not react quickly enough to an enemy's move/extremely 
 easy Quick Time Event, you do not die for it. Instead, Elika brings you back to life, making the 
 game incredibly easy. The only consequence for it is that the enemy regains a bit of their health. 
 However, the amount of health drained is usually a very small amount that can be drained back to 
 normal levels in a few seconds. The only consequence for dying in a non-combat situation is that 
 you are sent back to the nearest platform, which, except in a few isolated cases, is very close 
 to where you died. The game only needs this for one portion of the entire experience, so it is 
 very hard to imagine why Prince of Persia has it to begin with. 
  
  Perhaps the only part of Prince of Persia that is truly flawless is the graphics. The first thing 
 you will notice is the Prince's new look. While some may not agree with Ubisoft's redesign, it 
 ends up looking much better than the Sands of Time Prince, which can be unlocked as an alternate 
 skin for those who do not like the redesign. Under the new cel-shaded graphics, the old Prince 
 looks almost Neanderthalic, while the new Prince feels right at home. The cel shading graphics 
 scheme works incredibly well with the plot, highlighting the death surrounding a corrupted land, 
 and the life and energy when life returns. In addition, it also makes look distinctly like an Xbox 
 360 game, whereas many Xbox 360 games look a lot like shiny previous generation titles; nothing 
 in this game could be done on an Xbox or PS2. Finally, the attention to detail in this game is 
 amazing, even in the animations. Every little scenario is animated beautifully, from the Prince 
 and Elika switching places on an outstretching beam, to the Prince falling to his death. Especially 
 outstanding are the power plate animations, which give off the magical storybook feeling the series 
 is known for.
  
  While the graphics are magnificent, most of the other aspects feel only almost perfect; if not 
 for one screw-up, Prince of Persia could have been Game of the Year. As it stands, the game is 
 only great, not perfect. The skillfully designed levels, beautiful graphics, and surprisingly deep 
 combat system make it a must-buy title. Yet the Prince's appallingly bad one-liners and the lack 
 of consequence for death keep it from realizing its true potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_ZZZ
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 15, 2009 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I haven't really played the previous Prince of Persia games, I installed Sands of Time for a brief 
 moment, but the controls bugged me to much to go anywhere with it, so for this review I guess I'll 
 be concentrating on more of an "Outsiders" experience.
  
  Story and Characters 
  
  Like all Prince of Persia you play as a character known to us as "The Prince", although this Prince 
 is completly different... However this Prince is portrayed as a normal Adventurer who can't trust 
 anyone, being a very skilled swordsman wielding a long sword in one hand, and a gauntlet in another 
 he is able to give the many monsters and bosses in the game a run for their money. 
  
  As a replacement for Farah of the Sands of Time trilogy, Elika is introduced as the second member 
 in your "Tag team". She is the Princess of this particular "Realm?" and at the start of the game 
 she is found to be running away from guards alone. Elika is a strong believer in the God of Light, 
 Ormazd, and happens to be a protector of the Tree of Light, which keeps the darkness sealed away 
 and with that she is able to use mystical magic which allows her to save the prince from falling, 
 and aiding the Prince in battle with her acrobatic and magical abilities, combining them with his 
 own skills. Despite what you might think, for a sidekick who follows you around, Elika is actually 
 useful and without using her abilities, you wouldn't be able to get anywhere. Plus to top it off, 
 unlike certain sidekicks of the Legend of Zelda series, she doesn't keep saying "Prince" constantly 
 until you talk to her. 
  
  The story itself is pretty linear, a bad guy comes along and wants to release the darkness, in 
 which he does so, and you're forced to help out in un-corrupting the land. That all said though, 
 the character interactions between the Prince and Elika are amusing at times. Unlike most games, 
 it doesn't feel too forced and overall it seems a quite realistic relationship, which in itself 
 makes up for the lack of an original story.
  
  
  
  
  
  Gameplay
  
  Once the game has loaded, you are put straight into the action of following Elika, defending yourself 
 and her from guards, and after some jumping, some slashing and a about 5 achievements gained if 
 you're on the 360 version you are pretty much shown all what this game has to offer within the 
 first 5mins. 
  
  For the most of the game you'll be running, jumping and sliding your way around the world, following 
 your normal platformer style action. Which is indeed very fun and well made, however the game is 
 very easy to begin with and to make it even easier the game has thousands of tutorial messages 
 popup every so often telling you what to do, some of which you can't switch off. For example, you 
 can't die, no matter how many times you jump off into the unknown abyss, fall, or even get killed 
 by an enemy, Elika somehow manages to save you, whether she flies of the edge after you, or grabs 
 you out of the way before you're about to get stabbed. More over, even when you're about to fall 
 down, the colour fades out which signifies the fact you need to press a button to double jump or 
 you'll fall, which I still don't quite get considering you can't die to begin with.
  
  For the other part of the game, you'll be taking part in combat. This Prince of Persia doesn't 
 have combat which involves battling more than one enemy at the time, its main focus being one on 
 one duelling, using both the Princes swordsmanship and Elika's magic. In theory this idea seems 
 like a very interesting change, and will stop the annoyance of having to fight hordes of enemies 
 at the same time. However, that is in theory and after playing it I can say it is fun, but for 
 me it just seems too easy. The guard button lights up on the screen when the monster or boss is 
 about to attack (Which you can't turn off) , and also for bosses it pretty much tells you how to 
 beat the boss at the top of the screen, never mind having to figure it out for yourself.
  
  Ubisoft may very well release a patch to add a new difficulty level where you can die, or just 
 making the enemies tougher, but until then, the gameplay is ruined a bit by the sheer easiness 
 of the game.
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Unlike Previous instalments to the Prince of Persia series, this game uses a type of Cel-Shaded 
 graphics, which a lot of gamers have been put off by. I admit this style might not be everyones 
 cup of tea, but the graphics for me is perhaps the best thing about the game. All of the areas 
 are well drawn and are amazing to look at, hell some people might play it just to see all the different 
 areas. 
  
  In the world there is 2 types of environments you'll be facing, first one being the "cleansed" 
 type, which the world will be at in the beginning of the game until all hell breaks loose and will 
 change back into as you cure the land, which as you can guess is full of green grass, blue skies, 
 making even the sand look pretty. The other being the "Corrupted" environment, which appears as 
 long as the area you are in is left un-cleansed. The corrupted land looks a lot darker and more 
 sinister looking, containing shadowy ooze which kills you if you hit or fall in it, all the pretty 
 little graphics that once was being covered in ice and the sky being dark and dreary.
  
  Overall I really like the graphics, very unique to this type of game, in which stays beautiful 
 constantly throughout the game. Though it may not look realistic like Assassins Creed did, the 
 game looks brilliant, and shows that a game doesn't need to be realistic to look amazing. The only 
 flaw being once you've seen one part of one of the 4 areas, the other parts of those areas look 
 remarkably similar.
  
  
  
  
  
  Lifespan
  
  Prince of Persia's main story isn't going to be breaking any boundaries in how long it takes to 
 complete, I'd say 20hours max, that's if you plan on getting everything, although since I didn't 
 bother going for every orb, I can only estimate in how long it would take to gather them all. However 
 it shares the same problem as Assassin's Creed, the game can get slightly repetitive near the end, 
 when you have to go around picking up orbs to unlock the next 4 areas to be able to cleanse them. 
 Fair enough that you should have to do something to unlock the next area, but picking up the orbs 
 can get very tedious, and what makes it worse is the fact the orbs only appear once the area has 
 been cleansed, meaning you have to go through the same place twice to unlock the next set of areas. 
 This, in my opinion was a bad choice by Ubisoft and made the game easy to quit from and never wanting 
 to go back to, making this games lifespan very short for some gamers.
  
  On your second playthrough there isn't anything different which is added into the game, you can 
 go through the game with different costumes such as "The Original Prince" and also an Altair skin, 
 if you wish. Other than that though, for the moment there isn't any reason to replay it. However 
 I'm sure in the near future we'll perhaps be seeing downloadable content being released from them 
 adding new stuff to be done in it.
  
  In conclusion The Prince of Persia is a very good addition to the series, and most of the changes 
 made to the game like the graphics and the duel system in general stand up very well and make the 
 game amazing. However little flaws such as the difficulty being very easy and that some bits of 
 the game can be pretty monotonous do affect the gameplay quite a bit, and could put some people 
 off the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: therockkratos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Well so i'm a huge fan of prince of Persia i have played all three opus of this name, sand of time, 
 warrior within and the two thrones that was a awesome experience and i have wait year of year to 
 play the next prince of Persia. i have buy this game when he just arrived and the game slap me 
 truly beautiful but the only black point was the game is too short, i have finishes the game less 
 than seven hours but the game is so good we don't see the black point. with is new style, the phenomenal 
 new graphics put the game at his top, and we just lose ourselves in the beautiful environment great 
 background absolutely big this is a real hit now i'm waiting for the second like this one ending 
 i'm sure we will have a second one. The game has take a new air by the new system of playing and 
 fighting this has been possible by second principal character putting in the game the princess 
 Elika who is very beautiful, the new system of playing is very good because for a prince of Persia 
 this is a premiere. super game continue this way good luck for the next opus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffrey9910
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of all the PoP series. However the newest one is a flat out disgrace. There 
 are no puzzles, what few there are are very simple. All the fights are against bosses and are VERY 
 VERY repetitive. The fights are also way too scripted. For example you'll get a shot in and then 
 next thing you know you'll be on your back and have to press a certain button. Reminds me alot 
 of God of War for PSP, except alot worse. There's just no fluid momentum to the fighting. It's 
 also very basic moves. There are no more using the environment around you. You can't swing around 
 poles, walk up the wall and backflip behind them, etc. 
  
  The main purpose of the game is alright, have to go through infected places with a few obstacles 
 to get to the futile grounds to heal them. You then go back through the exact same places to collect 
 light orbs to unlock other places to go to. 
  
  You can't die, as Elika is always there to save you. Atleast before when you died it took away 
 part of sand. Now it doesn't punish you at all, as she will always save you. It becomes more of 
 a run and gun style gameplay. They seemed to take all the cool stuff from Sands of Time out, no 
 sliding down banners with the dagger, no swinging 360 degrees around a bar, no duel weapons and 
 no stealth kills.
  
  Overall the game is just way to repetitive now and no where near as fun or as exciting as Sands 
 of Time. If you've never played a PoP game before, then you might like this game. However if you 
 were a fan of any previous PoP games, then I recommend you stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballistica
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:09 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas and just started to play it... all I can say is it is utterly fantastic 
 in all regards.
  
  The story is great and I really love all the cut scenes and dialog.
  
  The graphics are incredible and the locations and levels are all beautiful.
  
  The level 
 design is great and the platforming is a blast. This game reminds me of playing the old Sonic or 
 Mario games (waaaaaay back when on NES to Genesis) in that it feels like a 2D side scroller but 
 in 3D. The running, flipping, jumping, scaling is a blast.
  
  I also play the Tomb Raider games and this one is just so much more fun because it's not all complicated 
 (with multiple enemies, gadgets etc) ... it lets you run around a level and execute the moves in 
 a way that there are no breaks in the action. It's hard to explain but I love this game so much 
 I had to write a review.
  
  PEople bash on it saying it is easy... well... that depends on your definition of what 'hard' is 
 with this type of game. Do I like cheap deaths and a punishing save system that so many other games 
 use to make their games 'hard'? No. What's the difference between this game and me using a quick 
 save feature after every jump and being saved right after I blow the next jump. There is no difference. 
 I would get bored of having to repeat the same long piece of game play 10 times and would probably 
 never finish the game. The way the lives system is setup it maintains the pacing of the game and 
 lets you enjoy the central theme they are trying to give us... I am an adventurer exploring this 
 beautiful place and engaging in really fun moves the entire time. The game is 'hard' because you 
 need to complete all the objectives and that takes time and some thinking, but it is not 'easy' 
 in that it is not a challenge. It is a challenge but one that is forgiving. It's the same as regenerating 
 health or quick saves in a FPS. So enough of that because instead of me hitting quick save every 
 20 feet they do it for me.
  
  BAck to the game. The powers you get are a nice break from the regular platforming but it's the 
 sense of exploration and wonder as you uncover the different environments that really has a hold 
 on me. I love games that let me explore and this game really has me hooked. It really feels like 
 I am playing a movie, and one that is fun and keeps up the pace.
  
  Ubisoft did a great job on this and I can't wait for a PoP2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GURU-LINX
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so we were all looking forward to a Prince of pesia 4 game but what we got was a completely 
 different..... spin-offy, type....... thing. Basically we got a new and (maybe not improved but) 
 different experience to the first three. I haven't finished playing it yet myself but so far as 
 a lover of the other 3 PoP games this is an amazing sequel (when not compared to the others) .
 
  
  The Graphics are just fantastic, smooth and (yes slightly similar to the oilbased painting style 
 that Okami had) simply beautiful! Extra features & pictures for completeing stuff in the games 
 is great too. (beautiful Artwork, skins and added game extras)
  
  The Storyline is very good, not the best, but good enough to keep you playing and want to find 
 out what is going on. And the concept of NOT dying is an added bonus and a unique concept. The 
 gameplay is the only thing i have abit of a problem with. We all know that the acrobatic, climbing 
 & fighting aspects of PoP were the most enticing feaures of the games, and the previous 3 managed 
 to find the right balance. But with this PoP game its WAY too much clinbing & finding youre way 
 around and not ENOUGH fighting.
  
  With Shadow of the Colossus it wasn't as much of a problem as once you found the Colossus the battles 
 could take ages to complete and even take you af ew tries before you knew what to do.
  
  But with PoP it can just get very repetitive. (search, cutscene, fight, heal, search, cutscene, 
 fight, heal..... Odd piece of info, search, cutscene, etc...) but if the aspect of making your way 
 around beautiful landscapes, while performing death-defying jumps and moves is your cup of tea, 
 it wont matter much.
  
  i would have liked to give this game a 10/10 but if i did it would have just been for the sake 
 of the other 3 but considering the (sometimes) repetitive nature of this PoP, 9/10 is the best 
 i would give it. Nearly the excellent game it could be, but not quite there, Overall a great game 
 that will bring you hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful and stunning graphics and soundtrack, excellent cinematic combat, great controls 
 and acrobatics, open world is very well designed, amazing story
  
  The Bad: Combat and exploration gets tedious towards the end, that damn cliffhanger ending
  
 
  The Sands of Time trilogy was probably one of the best games series ever made, let alone a few 
 diverse series, with each game completely evolving from each other. When the series started with 
 The Sands of Time every completely freaked out on their consoles with the game's great acrobatic 
 moves, enticing story, and beautiful graphics. The game just felt so good and played so well the 
 controller almost melted in your hand. With the return in Warrior Within the Prince kind of went 
 to the dark side with a grungy, heavy metal, gory sequel that was either a hate or love it type 
 thing. I however considered that one my favorite, but fans were pleased again with Two Thrones 
 when the Prince actually got a dark side and went back to the style of the first game. If you loved 
 this game you should go back and play the previous trilogy because I promise you'll fall in love 
 with it.
  
  The PoP we are playing has a completely different story, and hell the Prince isn't even a prince; 
 he's a thief who wound up in the wrong place at the wrong time whilst running into Princess Elika. 
 The Prince and Elika are major roles in this wonderfully made game and it all actually works. The 
 first thing I need to explain is that the core of the gameplay is like the previous PoP games with 
 the whole acrobatic aspect still intact. However the Prince now has a Gauntlet that he uses to 
 help him with all of this. The controls have been simplified where everything is just one button 
 press... yes let go of that analog stick because you just use it to point the Prince where you want 
 to go; not guide him. He can run across walls, run up walls, swing around poles, climb on vines, 
 shimmy across ledges etc. The game controls so incredibly well with a few minor issues you really 
 won't hate the controls. Another major change is the game is open world so you can go anywhere 
 you want in this humongous world.
  
  The point of the game is to stop Arihman from destroying the world with Corruption and in turn 
 save Elika's father Ormazd. While there are over 30 areas to explore you can go to them however 
 you want using the acrobatic moves. Yes this can get tedious after awhile because once you discover 
 everything you'll have to backtrack to the Temple to acquire new powers. These are four powers 
 that are activated on various colored power plates on walls and they are key to access new Fertile 
 Grounds. Each section is a "mini-level" with various obstacles to cross and just before a fertile 
 ground is a boss fight. Navigating the world can be a bit confusing in the beginning since you'll 
 be relying on a "compass" that'll guide you to where you want to go depeneding on what area you 
 selected on your map. The point of healing each area is to rid of the Corruption killing that piece 
 of land. Of course you can't touch this corruption or you well... you don't die in this game. Elika 
 saves you if you fall off a ledge so consider any flat ground a checkpoint.
  
  During combat you can not die either and you may think this is absurd, but it is a blessing. Trying 
 to find Light Seeds (after you heal a ground you go back and collect these to gain new powers) 
 can be kind of hard so you jump off a cliff to reach one and if you fail no big deal. This is better 
 than restarting a level, but of course if it's open world you can't technically restart a level. 
 Elika is also a big part of your acrobatics because if you can't reach a ledge you press Y when 
 you jump and she'll give you a boost. This is also true in combat where she is basically your "magic" 
 attack. Moving through the levels is fairly easy and I didn't once have to resort to a FAQ of any 
 kind. The compass is a great way to find out where to go since it's a little light that kind of 
 goes along a path and you can follow it. Of course find all 1001 Light Seeds isn't necessary since 
 you'll find plenty to acquire all powers without having to hunt and search for each seed.
  
  Now when it comes to combat you're in for quite a treat since combat is very cinematic. Everything 
 is "one-on-one" and each enemy has a life bar that you much deplete. You have four major attacks: 
 Magic, Acrobatic, Grab, and Sword. You can combine any four of these to make huge combos. Of course 
 the corruption plays a huge role, so if the enemy changes status you can only use a certain attack 
 to break through it. While each character technically plays the same you have to use time button 
 presses to fend off their attacks. This can make things fun and challenging at the same time. The 
 combat is very rewarding with the dramatic sweeping camera angles and beautifully scored music. 
 Of course after awhile it starts feeling really old, but not enough to really bore you since it 
 always keeps you on your toes.
  
  If you want to talk about cosmetics PoP is probably one of the best looking games ever made so 
 far. The game is just stunningly beautiful and there are high perches you can stand on and just 
 look out to this beautiful vista that is amazingly rendered in real time. I don't know how Ubi 
 did it but they pulled some amazing stuff to get the game to look the way it does. The soundtrack 
 is really stunning as well (even though there's not much of it) , and the voice acting is top notch 
 and you really in love with these two characters and they struggle with the world around them and 
 with each other. The Prince tends to be a sarcastic hot headed wanna-be hero and Elika is a confused 
 woman/goodie two-shoes who is always putting the Prince's fire out. There are so many amazing elements 
 to PoP you just have to play it to really know it all. With a great cliffhanger ending, a great 
 way to control the ending, great controls, cinematic combat, and beautiful graphics you will spend 
 a good 10 to 12 hours exploring this world.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petruvai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  While I must admit that I haven't played the other Prince of Persia games, I still believe that 
 this is a great game. Sometimes an easy game is what the doctor ordered. 
  
  Not every game has to be difficult to be enjoyable. This is one of those truly artistic games that 
 is extremely easy, yet very fun to play. The best part of the game is the visual design. While 
 the the Prince and Elika look rather "drawn," the scenery is simply astonishing. The textures are 
 perfect and the colors are vivid and full of life. Making the gameplay so easy seems to have been 
 an effort to allow the player to enjoy the lush textures and expansive scenery as much as possible.
 
  
  Platforming is simply enjoyable for me. There is nothing better than running and jumping through 
 a level to get to an eventual foe. While I would never want every game to be this way, it is sorely 
 needed on occasion. Running along walls, jumping over expanses, and running along ceilings is simply 
 enjoyable.
  
  Once the enemies are eventually reached the swordplay is, for the most part, rather enjoyable and 
 almost as beautiful as the rest of the game. However, some of the battles can be a bit frustrating 
 since at certain times specific attacks must be used. In order to signal these times, the foe will 
 change colors or emit a smoke of corruption that signals which attack to use. However, it is a 
 bit difficult to remember which color for each enemy signals which attack. Not that this makes 
 the battles annoying or difficult, since Elika can save you an infinite number of times during 
 any time in the game.
  
  I strongly recommend this game to anyone that needs a break from difficult games and just wants 
 to take in some incredible scenery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameObserver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  One had to wonder what logic Ubisoft used to justify a remake of Prince of Persia so early into 
 the last trilogy's run. I personally didn't understand the need to revamp a working formula. After 
 having played the 2008 version it all became clear: it's not the franchise they revamped, it's 
 the fan base. In the last few years I noticed Ubisoft's flagship title had a strong casual gamer 
 following -- women in particular. Many of my female friends included at least one of the last three 
 Princes in their library (usually the first one) , along with games like Myst and The Sims. The 
 latter are hugely successful franchises so it was only natural that Ubisoft decided to further 
 tap into the female market, probably one of the most loyal in the industry. 
  
  Prince of Persia always had a certain appeal to the fair gender with its ease of play and love 
 theme. The last two titles attempted to give the concept a more action-oriented feel but that strategy 
 generated rather disappointing results. It appears Ubisoft realized where the game's strength lies 
 and decided to virtually scrap action and puzzle elements in favor of what made the first Prince 
 of Persia a hit: wall-running and bonding. Veteran players will find enough action here to keep 
 them interested but extra steps were taken to incorporate much-neglected female gamer preferences.
 
  
  
  AND THOSE PREFERENCES ARE?
  
  Prince of Persia 2008 isn't much of an achievement in terms of gameplay but it lets casual players 
 enjoy the game without too many headaches. The game is very easy to get into and does a wonderful 
 job developing the relationship between both protagonists. It features a healthy does of dialog 
 about dreams, goals, parents, duty, love and sex -- the last one usually approached subtly enough 
 to pass under most male radar screens. The entire game flows freely with the player simply tagging 
 along on a ride designed around Elika, the heroine. 
  
  Dialog can be ignored, which in a sense also makes the plot optional considering the story is told 
 through the various conversions between Elika and the "prince". A bubble appears when one of them 
 has something to say. It's a great feature considering some will not care about the profuse "bonding" 
 taking place. I personally would advise against ignoring the plot. The ending might seem a little 
 strange (correction: stranger) if you skip all the chitchat. 
  
  
  WHY I AM LETTING THIS THIEF TAG ALONG WITH ME?
  
  Because he is the only playable character. 
 And because he's got awesome abs, a great sense of humor, is charming, witty, adventurous, independent, 
 confident, caring, cheers me up when I'm down, has a nice butt, cool scars, deep azure eyes, accepts 
 me for who I am, treats me like a lady, has "experience", is a bad boy and I can probably change 
 him. That's the one-dimensional MySpace "who I'd like to meet" ideal male for ya. The only thing 
 missing is information on whether he's a good dancer. 
  
  The female protagonist, Elika, on the other hand, is far more fleshed out. On the surface she is 
 a goodie-two-shoes princess whose dad unleashed the god of corruption, Ahriman, from his prison. 
 She is also endowed with special powers that include teleportation and various "light" abilities. 
 On the inside, though, she is the personification of most girls wanting to make an imprint in today's 
 crazy world of constraints. Together with her companion they attempt to lock Ahriman back into 
 his prison by purging the land of corruption. The land itself is the prison but it has weakened. 
 Now his minions are running amok, infecting the rustic countryside with black goop while the threat 
 of their boss escaping looms over our heroes (literally) . The threat is only implied because action 
 is laidback and open-ended. 
  
  Why Elika lets the thief tag along with her (and do all the action) is a valid question since she 
 doesn't need to climb walls and jump from pole to pole to get the job done. She can teleport, fly 
 and is the only one who can purge the land of corruption. Her love interest is merely there to 
 let us experience the game through human eyes. Players control the male character while Elika supports 
 him in various ways. The "prince" can't die. As soon as our man slips Elika teleports to the rescue 
 -- it's her answer to the old time rewind feature. The hero (when will this guy get a name?) can't 
 even die during the scant one-on-one boss battles. In short, anybody can finish this game.
  
  
  IS THERE ANYTHING TO CLIMB BESIDES WALLS AND PILLARS?
  
  No. But there are vertical 
 and horizontal poles, and surfaces our male hero can slide on. Four different types of "plates" 
 are also spread out in the levels giving players access to specific locations. The concept is good 
 but creativity seems to have run dry at Ubisoft because three of the four plates simply make you 
 fly. The fourth one lets players run on vertical surfaces, which is cool, but changing one of the 
 "fly" plates to something else would have reduced repetition, which the game has plenty of.
  
  The ability to use each plate is unlocked when enough "light seeds" are found. The corrupted 
 land is divided into zones, each one containing "fertile ground" (shiny target) that purifies the 
 surroundings when stepped on. Players must first traverse the perilous, corrupted levels to reach 
 the fertile "targets" then redo each level to find light seeds. Levels can be completed in no particular 
 order, which might explain why the entire game is uniformly easy. A few obstacles are added further 
 into the plot but in general gameplay is rather simplistic until the very end. 
  
  Players will be asked to do a fair deal of wall-running, climbing and pillar-jumping. The mechanics 
 around the aforementioned actions are decent but gameplay might be a bit too straightforward for 
 veterans. The "prince" automatically attaches to the nearest surface despite miscuing a jump. Wall 
 surfaces even have scratch marks, hinting where you should run or glide. This "assistance" can 
 get on your nerves at times when our stud does what he's not supposed to, like jump up instead 
 of wall-run. Unlike previous Prince of Persia games, levels don't have any spikes or traps. Furthermore, 
 there are but two or three puzzles in the entire story. It's all wall-running and bouncing off 
 plates. Things are so easy much of the game can be played with a single hand. The only challenge 
 will be finding carefully hidden light seeds. 
  
  
  THANK ORMAZD YOU'RE THERE TO WATCH MY BACKSIDE, ELIKA
  
  Prince of Persia doesn't suffer from 
 trial-and-error, which plagues many games of the genre. We have straightforwardness "embellishing" 
 gameplay instead. I say that with a hint of sarcasm because gameplay is absurdly easy while "parcouring" 
 through levels. One doesn't even need to see what's ahead; the game practically plays itself. Still, 
 seeing your character prancing around like a ninja is a gratifying feeling. Too bad it's artificial 
 
  
  Combat, enjoys the same scripted formula. Combos are great to perform and watch unfold but fighting 
 is stiff. On-screen reflex button presses make up most of the fighting though after a while I actually 
 stopped playing along with this stupid feature, opting for getting beat up instead. Why? Because 
 taking damage is irrelevant: you can't die. Getting knocked around simply refills your opponent's 
 life meter a bit -- a strange gameplay feature if you ask me. I've actually left the game running 
 in the middle of a boss fight while taking a bathroom break. 
  
  Block, dodge, deflect and attack animations lock your character up, leaving you open for attacks 
 between moves. The entire spectacle turns fighting into a beautiful ballet of rigid action. One 
 can't, for instance, perform an attack midway into a roll. You have to watch your character dodge, 
 get up and get ready before performing a move. 
  
  Combat has spectacular animation but it can be repetitive, especially when fighting bosses. Seeing 
 Elika get punched fifty times in the face the exact same way by the end-boss got a malevolent laugh 
 out of me because well, she should have learned her lesson not to approach the action after the 
 first forty-nine times! Unfortunately for her, she was the victim of constrained animation and 
 surroundings. Speaking of which, battles usually take place on clear ground, and though decorations 
 during fights are rare (you can push opponents through them) , I still had occasions where a single, 
 unique, lowly pillar blocked my view 
  
  
  NO, THAT'S NOT THE TORTURE ROOM, THAT'S THE GARDEN
  
  This brings us to the camera. It's decent! 
 There were times where action zoomed out so far up I got a glimpse of the floor above me, but it 
 happened rarely. Not that you will care; the levels are exquisite, so seeing more of them is always 
 a plus. I used to think previous Prince of Persia games had great level designs, but this version 
 tops them, at least from an esthetic point of view. From afar the local architecture gives the 
 impression the kingdom was inhabited by real people. From up close, though, Elika literally has 
 to explain what the rooms were used for. The next Prince of Persia might need to model its ground-level 
 realism after Assassin's Creed. 
  
  Speaking of realism, the thief's voice doesn't seem to match his look. Granted, the guy sounds 
 great -- some of the best voice acting of the series -- but the gentle, boyish voice doesn't match 
 the "I'll stab you in a dark alley" look. Other than that, dialog is perfect. I personally could 
 listen to both characters all day long. The game features some of the best lines I've heard title 
 to date and music is also on par with what you might expect from a Ubisoft product. It's good enough 
 to make me want to "find" some of the tunes. One small blemish has to be the overly-repetitive 
 main theme song. 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  Prince of Persia took a definite step backwards in terms of gameplay but considering Ubisoft is 
 looking to attract casual gamers, the change can be deemed a success. Repetition, on the other 
 hand, is no excuse. A few more innovations would have definitely done the game good. Combat could 
 have also used more fluidity. It's stiff and pointless, considering you can't die. This new Prince 
 is a great game for people who like watching polar opposites bonding; it's not-so-great for players 
 looking for a challenge. The game is absurdly easy. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS 81
  Clean and beautiful graphics. The landscape is worth gazing at but interior levels feel artificial. 
 The new murderer-look doesn't become the "prince".
  
  GAMEPLAY 70
  Repetitive action and stiff combat. The plates feel like a wasted gimmick. The game practically 
 plays itself, though it's fun "parcouring" through levels.
  
  PRODUCTION 75
  Great lines and a nice plot, though I'm not convinced the game should have ended the way it did. 
 I was expecting a better intro and buildup.
  
  SOUND 88
  Very nice tunes. Captures the Persian feel. Dialog is clearly the game's strong point. Best sounding 
 "prince" of the series. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL 72
  Repetition sets in very early and doesn't get better with time. The only extras worth finding are 
 alternate costumes. A solid 15 hours.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The good old Prince of Persia. It's a series that just doesn't seem to die, even if they need new 
 characters each time. This game is the Prince's first outing on current-gen consoles, and it's 
 somewhat similar to the other Prince of Persia games, just with free-roaming thrown in, and different 
 combat.
  
  This story takes place in a desert in the Persian area. While looking for his lost donkey, the 
 Prince runs into Elika, who you later learn is some sort of sorceress (or something along those 
 lines) who is trying to restore her city of legend to its former glory. Standing in the way is 
 Ahriman, who is basically the God of Darkness. They need to stop him from escaping in order to 
 save the city.
  
  While the story alone seems kind of dull, and I guess it kind of is, the characters are awesome. 
 When GameSpot said that the Prince was a bad lead character, someone forgot to pay attention to 
 the dialogue. You gain so much from having conversations with Elika throughout the game, with some 
 of their banter (including a fun game they make up) and some very intelligent conversation. The 
 characters have a lot more depth than being a "cool thief" and a "mature princess".
  
  Now, onto the gameplay. The platforming is very fun by itself, with the exception of the beginning 
 of the game, where you feel like the game is being played for you due to the simple movements. 
 Once you get into the game and things get more complex though, it gets more difficult. The combat 
 is a one-on-one variety, where you can kill an enemy by pushing them into environmental objects 
 (usually pillars) , pushing them off of the edge (if possible) , or simply running their health bar 
 down. You have to use combos to kill enemies, and some combos are very flashy, which is very cool. 
 Also, certain combos are better in certain situations, so there's more to using combos simply because 
 they look cool.
  
  Now onto the issue of dying. In simple terms, you can't die. If you're about to be killed by an 
 enemy or you are about to fall into a pit of death, then you are saved by Elika. HOWEVER, being 
 saved does carry a price. In platforming sections, you get sent back to your last area of stable 
 ground, which is basically anything you can stand still on that isn't a rail. In combat, the enemy's 
 health bar gets somewhat refilled. So although you can't "lose the game", per say, it's not as 
 easy as people perceive it to be because they think that if you can't die, it's not hard.
  
  Time for some of my complaints. For one thing, it can get frustrating at certain times when 
 using yellow or green plates to constantly die in a certain section, usually because you either 
 can't see an obstacle or don't know which way to go to avoid it. For the plates themselves, they 
 aren't very original. Red and blue plates are essentially the same thing, and yellow is a variation 
 off of them. Finally, this game is very repetitive. It's basically for each area you platform through 
 it, beat the boss, heal the grounds, and repeat. For each whole sections, it's beat all the sections, 
 kill the boss at the end, repeat. This cycle is not broken until the final area of the game.
  
  Before I give my ending comments, I have to comment on the art style in this game. It is absolutely 
 beautiful. It looks very artsy itself, and it just seems to work with the cell-shaded characters. 
 It's very similar to Okami, which was another beautiful game.
  
  Anyway, this game is a must-buy, simple enough. The platforming is great, the combat is great, 
 the art is great. If you can get past the repetitiveness of it, you will love this game, and will 
 probably play it twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garuda414
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 4:48 pm PT
Review:  What makes me really like this game is that it gives the player a great playing experience. Ubisoft 
 did an excellent job using both of the main characters at the same time. In fights Elika will be 
 leaping over your shoulder to use magic while you use sword and gauntlet attacks. You only fight 
 one monster at a time but the fights can take a while. Most of the game consists of collect balls 
 of light so Elika can heal the lands from darkness. Navigating the landscape is like most prince 
 of Persia games except for the addition of power plates and Elikas powers. Power plates are used 
 to get you and Elika around the map in a few different ways. The plot is about a God of darkness 
 who is about to escape, the only two up for the job are you and Elika. You have to go to each of 
 the fertile grounds in the kingdom to heal them. The game has a good ending and leaves you with 
 a cliffhanger. Achievements are mostly collection based but easy to get. I say it is a good rent 
 since it took me under twelve hours to beat it. I heard this game will also be made into a movie 
 so that should be cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This is another one of those games this past holiday season that i thought to myself that it might 
 be worth a look. I had really enjoyed sands of time and figured this would be as good or at least 
 close to. Turns out I was wrong.
  
  Pros:
  - Great graphics
  - Art direction is great, why they tried to make it cell shaded though is beyond me
  
  
  
 Cons:
  - Weak and poorly conceived cast of characters, each as shallow and boring as the next
  - For 
 what little music there is, it's just as recycled as the gameplay
  - Limited enemies to fight
  - Game practically plays itself
  - Poor control scheme
  - Pathetic 
 attempt at trying to force a sequel on you, regardless of whether you enjoyed this installment 
 or not
  - Collecting light seeds is a drag
  - Gameplay follows the same setup throughout the entire game
  
  If you look at my past reviews 
 and see assassin's creed was rated lower than Prince of Persia despite me saying this is just like 
 that game, well I actually forced myself to finish this one. I kept thinking it would get better 
 and it wouldn't. Anyway if you insist on playing this, just make it a rental. You'll save yourself 
 $50 hard earned dollars and just spend the $10 at blockbuster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nico83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia (POP) is a well-crafted and aesthetically gorgeous game that rests on its laurels 
 of the past, but with a refreshing new coat of paint over its aging exterior.
  
  Like the POP's on last generation's consoles, the game play relies heavily on gravity defying, 
 acrobatic platforming cut in with segments of sword fighting. The prince ostensibly has a background 
 in humanly impossible circus performing and effortlessly wall runs, ceiling crawls and pole hops 
 across landscapes and up obstacles with such grace that the actions almost seem plausible. Additionally, 
 thanks to the prince's female companion, his repertoire of abilities is extended even further.
 
  
  One of the more clever changes to the POP canon is Elika, a princess that crosses paths with the 
 protagonist and traverses through the game with the player. She is always visible during game play 
 as she follows the prince and has special magic and teleportation abilities that contribute to 
 the platforming elements of the game. She grants the prince the ability to second jump by magically 
 appearing underneath him and physically thrusting him back into the air. Additionally, when a jump 
 is missed and the prince falls to his theoretical doom, Elika flies in and saves him, dropping 
 him back on the last piece of solid ground he stood on (essentially acting as a checkpoint) . She 
 has many other contributions, but those will be talked about later.
  
  In past POP games, the prince's visually complex movements were executed with a gratifying combination 
 of ease and control, leaving a great balance of difficulty and finesse. However, Ubisoft felt that 
 the controls required further simplification as most actions now revolve around single button presses 
 through lengthy scenes of acrobatics. Thus, the player feels less like he/she's the performer, 
 but instead the spectator. Even the theoretical powers the player receives later when he/she lands 
 on different colored nodes are nothing more than interactive cut scenes.
  
  To make things even simpler, in case the player makes a mistake, there are fail safe measures implemented 
 to pat the player on the back. Imprecise jumping from the player is slightly auto-corrected to 
 reposition the prince to go where he's supposed to. Elika has the ability to chart out the correct 
 path that the player should be going if he/she gets lost by emitting a ball of light that travels 
 the EXACT route that should be taken. This can be a folly as it is too helpful and abandons the 
 sense of exploration, which is one of the more entertaining aspects of the game. Of course, the 
 latter is only an option and does not need to be used if it is not desired.
  
  The sword battles are also stream-lined to become more like cinematic sequences by implementing 
 combos with timed button presses (starting to see a pattern in the way the game controls) . There 
 is a parry and dodge system, along with attack by sword, your hands or the use of Elika's magic. 
 All of these can be combined in sequence to perform varying levels of combos; the player has to 
 discover the better and longer combos through experimentation. The visual choreography for these 
 battles is great and stringing together combo attacks can be satisfying, but avid action fans will 
 probably be thrown off by this simple design. However, fighting takes up a very small portion of 
 this mostly platform-oriented game.
  
  The game's story takes place in an imaginary kingdom set in a fictional middle-eastern desert. 
 Elika is a princess struggling to regain control of her broken empire, forsaken by the dark gods 
 of her kingdom's mythology. Her plight is to revitalize all the "fertile grounds" under her kingdom, 
 which have been overcome and cast in a dark and dead gloom. Though the over-arching story is clich 
 and forgettable, it is forgivable as the focus is not in the back story, but the character dialogue.
 
  
  As there are really only two characters in this game, it was important for Ubisoft to nail the 
 chemistry between the two; I was surprised by how well they accomplished this feat. Elika is a 
 mature and diplomatic character that is committed to her royal duties to her shattered kingdom. 
 Though she has little comprehension of the wayfarer lifestyle of the prince, her charm and wit 
 pairs well with the snarky sarcasm of the prince.
  
  The prince is a wandering, free-spirited bandit whose royal lineage is never really disclosed and 
 leaves a lot of conjecture up to the player. He falls into helping Elika in a chance meeting when 
 he's looking for his lost donkey packed with booty from a recently raided tomb. What is originally 
 a motive of royal rewards, the prince slowly becomes entrenched in Elika's strife as he grows more 
 fond of her. His boorish, yet often times clever lines to Elika lend well to their cohesion as 
 she always has a good follow-up comment to his. Their interactions are built to be flirtatious 
 and build chemistry, and it works for the most part as it gradually builds up to the conclusion 
 of the game.
  
  This POP takes an un-orthodox approach to story telling where the player can get as much (or little) 
 of it as he/she desires. All the pertinent plot points are unavoidable and are triggered at a select 
 few points in the game. These segments are very short and stick mostly to the facts. If the player 
 wishes to divulge more in the game's lore and supporting story to the issue at hand, they can opt 
 to enter into a 15-second snippet conversation between Elika and the prince at any point in the 
 game play. This process can be repeated for more original dialogue between the characters, and 
 it is generally witty and well-written. Eventually, dialogue will repeat, but it takes awhile and 
 as soon as the plot has moved forward, the banks of conversation topics change again to update 
 to the current situation.
  
  Though the simplicity diminishes the satisfaction of the game's experience, the enjoyment from 
 the level design and artistic style is plentiful enough to compensate. The prince's move-set never 
 really expands with further play in the game, however the level design is so expertly crafted that 
 the way in which his moves are implemented is surprisingly varied. Additionally, it never gets 
 old watching the fluidity of your character performing his superhuman abilities.
  
  The cel-shaded, artistic environments that the prince moves through are quite captivating as well 
 and further enhance the game's enjoyment. All the settings are open canvases, vibrant with color 
 and moving parts that leave an organic sense of life to the world. Adding to the visual design, 
 the orchestral composition of the music is top notch and blends perfectly with the free-spirit 
 and organic tones of the game. The scenes are captivating and some of the game's greatest moments 
 come in the environmental set-pieces such as one where the character is flying high into the sky, 
 bouncing off of hot air balloons in the setting of a cloudy, windy mountain side.
  
  The only problem with the levels is not their artistic design, but the game's pacing and layout. 
 The entire game consists of traveling to a new fertile ground and finding the focal point where 
 you fight a short boss battle and purify the landscape (which looks great as plant life spreads 
 across the landscape dowsing it in greenery, akin to Okami) . This procedure is then repeated many 
 times over until the eventual conclusion. It doesn't help that the only extra abilities earned 
 feel less like a game play addition and more like getting a key to open a locked door as they have 
 no use except for in the areas you need them.
  
  The game is ultimately repetitious, but the immaculate production values in well-crafted and aesthetically 
 beautiful level design along with the games compelling characters makes for a journey well worth 
 taking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_Wolfe
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  Bounding across giant chasms and successfully making it to the other side by the skin of your teeth. 
 Brandishing a sword in the most stylish way and quickly dispatching of even the more skilled foes. 
 Does this sound like fun to you? Well it should, because it is the Prince of Persia, one of the 
 longest running platform action games, and all these years later, it is still a huge hit.
  After the massive success of the Prince of Persia trilogy for the Playstation 2, now Ubisoft have 
 decided to reinvent the series in the attempt to recreate the magic that had so many fans rewinding 
 time in the astounding trilogy. However, can Ubisoft achieve the same success or is the latest 
 outing for the Prince going to fall short of the nearest plinth and plummet to its death?
  Thankfully I can say no, Prince of Persia does not take a death defying pirouette downwards to 
 its death, but, sadly it does come up to the standards of its predecessors. This is not to say 
 that the Princes most recent foray into adventure is not a fantastic and high adrenaline game, 
 it's just not going to blow you away like Sands of Time when you first used the Dagger and rewound 
 time.
  This time around, there is a new Prince to guide through brand new lands and save the brand new 
 Princess. It would seem the dark God Ahriman is breaking free of his bonds and threatens to throw 
 the world into chaos and destruction for all eternity. This is where the lovely Princess Elika 
 comes in, a Priestess of Ormazd and the last hope of the world. Whilst out and about returning 
 from his latest adventure, the Prince happens to come across Elika running for her life, of course 
 the Prince simply cannot ignore this beauty in her hour of need and so begins the wonderful journey 
 that is Prince of Persia.
  The first thing that will strike you about Prince of Persia is that despite the dizzyingly large 
 landscapes and beautiful horizons everything seems so dark and empty, do not let yourself be fooled. 
 This is a clever design mechanic on behalf of the developer. As the Prince and Elika cleanse each 
 land of Darkness a lush and stunning look will replace what was there before. The look and feel 
 of the areas is simply inspired, and there will be plenty of venturing between the various areas 
 in your quest.
  The main premise of the task assigned to you is to find and cleanse 20 areas within a set four. 
 Obviously there is much scaling, jumping, climbing, shimmying, fighting and roof swinging to be 
 done between areas. There is also the consideration of four separate magic powers that can be activated 
 as the game goes on by confronting one of the four character bosses that guard them. These powers 
 in turn activate plates with varying properties that allow access to new areas. In some cases this 
 mechanic works well as one skill sees the entire world rotate around the Prince as he runs at high 
 speed up, down, along and around walls. Another seems entirely out of place as it fires the Prince 
 and Elika through the air on a set track line as you guide them past obstacles that will end their 
 flight.
  Combat has never been the series strong point and the decision to bring combat back to one on one 
 confrontations is a welcome addition even if it does feel slightly clumsy. The Prince has three 
 primary attacks; he can attack with his sword, his gauntlet or the pretty Elika. As the game progresses 
 and you discover new ways to battle, the combat mechanic actually opens up and becomes a thrilling 
 mix of juggling and button contextual mini-games.
  One of the unique new additions to the series is Elika's accompaniment to the Prince for the entire 
 journey. Not only will she aid you with your jumping and help you out in combat she provides the 
 means to save your life every time you die, and this is not annoying in and of itself, it simply 
 removes all fear of death from the game which can make the more trickier game sequences easier 
 to absorb.
  As mentioned before one of the most striking things about Prince of Persia is how the game looks 
 and it looks absolutely stunning. Ubisoft makes great use of cel shading in order to bring the 
 vibrant and verdant world to life. The character models of both the Prince and Elika are simply 
 a treat to look at as well. Special note has to be given to the four bosses within each area; they 
 are quite wonderfully rendered and mixed with their very good voice acting make for intriguing 
 battles.
  So we come to the games sound, the majority of the games speech will play out between Elika and 
 the Prince and I have to say I was thoroughly impressed (despite the Prince being archetypically 
 American) with their rapport. The characters interaction with one another really does work to the 
 games credit. Paired with the also lush music that gently strums out as you swing your way around 
 the delightful world, the game sounds excellent.
  Granted Prince of Persia is not breaking any new ground and does not really do anything to reinvent 
 the but it does take the series in new direction both with its look and feel, and this is certainly 
 enough to see the game into a sequel. If you are fan of the series, and are not sure whether you 
 want this game in your collection, take it from a fellow fan, it is worth the hours you will spend 
 playing it, even if it is not the longest game in the world.
  Go on, save the world one more time with style only the Prince can manage.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atheistium
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:08 am PT
Review:  I'll admit to never touching a Prince of Persia game before in my life. Which is probably good 
 in the case of this review as the newest PoP is so different compared to its predecessors. Complimented 
 by a completely new art direction and easier style of game play has Ubisoft given PoP the refresh 
 fans were looking for? Or has the attempt to widen the core audience by removing game over screens 
 done more damage than good?
  
  After loosing your recognisably named Donkey 'Farah' and getting caught up in some father daughter 
 conflict, you're suddenly thrown into a dark and barren world slowly being corrupted by Ahriman, 
 the God of Darkness, and his followers. Your mission is to trap Ahriman back into the temple by 
 restoring the corrupted lands with Elika, the Princess and your new companion.
  
  You'll begin with only 4 areas to access and each area is clustered together in a region: Veil, 
 the Citadel, the City of Light, and the Royal Palace. After healing a section an area you open 
 another path attached and after learning new powers you can cross between different regions. 
 
  
  By just rushing through the game you'll learn hardly anything about this world, Elika or Ahriman. 
 Interacting with Elika after various cut scenes will open up more information on the world and 
 your part in it but having to constantly nag Elika to get information becomes particularly frustrating. 
 Most of the time you'll have to go through 3 or 4 'banter' dialogs between the Prince and Elika 
 before she'll reveal more about the world and while a lot of the dialog is charming and entertaining 
 it does drag on. I would have rather been treated to an entertaining cut scene rather than the 
 same close up of Elika and the Prince with their repetitive mouth flaps and hand gestures. 
  
  The Prince's character is dramatically different from what fans would have expected from previous 
 titles. He sometimes feels more like the side character in the grand scheme of things rather than 
 the main hero. Adding in some flirty and humorous dialog during your run of the world or in one 
 of the many conversations you undertake with Elika you begin either love or hate the prince. His 
 overly American voice and swagger, while entertaining, can deter from the overall theme of the 
 game. Little is revealed about his character and only what you hear turns out to be very depressing. 
 Prince of Persia is set up to have a sequel so it's only a matter of time before we learn more 
 about the new Prince but it's a shame so little is revealed this time around. 
  
  The main factor of Prince of Persia will be getting from A to B, which is also the most enjoyable 
 part of the game. Using the Prince's extraordinary agility to jump, wall slide and shimmy his way 
 around the world is a real thrill, especially when you have a good flow going. The game gently 
 eases you into the very simple technique but as you gradually get through the game learning wall 
 run, jump, grab the ring and jump again as well as using the various power plates can be a real 
 thrill. Elika will follow you, copying your exact movements and also make sure to help you across 
 longer jumps. 
  
  One of the many charming parts of this title is your small exchanges with Elika during your adventure. 
 While walking on a pole and needing to go back to where you came from will have you and Elika holding 
 hands and swinging round each other. Hanging from a ledge you will allow you to throw her to the 
 opposite side and from a high jump you can grab her. This really makes your relationship with Elika 
 more human and believable and certainly is one of the many small details that make this game what 
 it is.
  
  Puzzles are unnecessarily easy and are usually solved in a matter of minutes without much thought. 
 All of the puzzles are done with turning cranks which gives a really lazy feel to the overall process 
 of solving them and waiting for Elika to come over to push the crank with you can become a repetitive 
 annoyance. They feel more like filler rather than a natural part of the game and even though their 
 existence is well woven into the storyline it all feels very forced and sadly very forgettable.
 
  
  The Prince now only engages in one on one combat. You get a brief taster at the start again with 
 some of the guards chasing Elika but most of your battles will take place against one of the 4 
 corrupted followers of Ahriman as they attempt to stop you from healing the land. Each follower 
 has a story as to why they joined Ahriman and this makes battles feel more worthy than slashing 
 away at guard 1 and 2 over and over. Each battle feels like a boss fight which is strange seeing 
 as the combat is very short lived.
  
  You move around a small area and run down the health of the corrupted with combos and button mashing. 
 The enemy will go through a variety of status's requiring you to use a certain move first to counter. 
 For example if the enemy becomes overwhelmed with corruption none of your attacks will work but 
 throwing Elika toward them and a quick blast of magic will ease them out of that status and your 
 chance to start a combo. All the battles feel repetitive and while some will enjoy chaining different 
 combos which only work on the easier boss fights, most battles will feel like a chore rather than 
 a challenge. 
  
  The game emphasises on collecting 'light seeds', which appear after you have healed a land, so 
 Elika can learn new powers giving you access to new levels on the world map. You can restore the 
 lands in any order you like and with this open world style you are encouraged to go back to previously 
 healed lands to collect light seeds, marvel at the scenery, and even complete speed runs. The new 
 powers are used only for travelling in the worlds and gaining access to other regions or even more 
 light seeds. The powers work by Elika restoring magical plates by the temple. Jumping on the plate 
 will either throw you across the sky, give you the ability to fly on a set patch, let you speed 
 run up and across walls or swing from one plate to the next. Using the plates and combining them 
 really brings a good flow to the game and getting a good rhythm becomes vital to later sections 
 requiring you to string together a number of jumps and swings before getting to your destination. 
 Some combinations take some time to complete and can see you making simple mistakes without paying 
 full attention to the environment. 
  
  This is where not removing the game over screens really changes would be frustrating to fun and 
 challenging. Missing a single ring grab on a large combo jump will see you only transported back 
 to where you and Elika last touched solid ground rather than to the start of the level. Any slips 
 or falls along the way are quickly forgotten with Elika jumping to your rescue and popping you 
 back to before you made your mistake. While the hardcore generally frown upon this kind of measure, 
 Prince of Persia works very much on the same key as Assassins Creed and Mirror's Edge: Flow. Getting 
 from A to B in a stylish, exciting and colourful manner is what brings Prince of Persia to life. 
 Traversing through a corrupted land and then again through a healed version are both enjoyable 
 and entertaining and neither feel laborious. While going through on a corrupted level gives you 
 a set path and reason for doing so, going back to collect light orbs really gives you the chance 
 to explore and enjoy Prince of Persia's fantastic animation and art work. 
  
  You can see that the game is asking to be enjoyed not only as a fun adventure and platform title 
 but also as a technical masterpiece in cell shading. Finding a high point and rotating the camera 
 around to marvel the landscape, the character detail and effort into creating such a magical and 
 colourful world is really something to be appreciated. Certain areas of the game that really show 
 off the environment even award the player with an achievement for enjoying the view. Yet another 
 reason why the open world concept really does this game justice and going back to collect light 
 seeds was more of an excuse to marvel at the beautiful surrounds than the task at hand. 
  
  If you're looking for a charming, fun and relaxing title to sink some hours into after a hard day 
 then Prince of Persia is the one for you. This is not a title that's going to challenge or compel 
 you to replay over and over. While my play through was an enjoyable one the game was more about 
 basking in the beautiful environments, pulling off a long flow of moves, and playful banter between 
 prince and princess than a challenging platformer. With no difficulty settings, the game being 
 short and only costume changes to reward you for your effort some of you will feel short changed. 
 However the story is filled with rewarding twists and turns making this adventure well worth your 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poetsoul
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia, simply put, is one of the most beautiful games of this console generation. It 
 is also a serviceable platformer. If this is everything you look for in a game, the new PoP absolutely 
 deserves a rent, (and if you don't mind its short length, maybe even a purchase.) If you also require 
 engaging story, however, you may be disappointed in this title. 
  
  Prince of Persia is the forth title in the series to appear on consoles, and the first to show 
 up on the Xbox360 and Playstation3. It comes five years after the critically acclaimed Sands of 
 Time (2003) , which raised the standard for 3d platforming, artistic visuals, and telling an engaging 
 story. Five years later, the new Prince of Persia has taken some of these qualities and developed 
 them, some for the better, and some for the worse.
  
  Visually, as I mentioned before, the game is jaw dropping. The player spends the game traveling 
 to areas that have been "corrupted" by an evil god and purifying them with dramatic, Okami-style 
 cutscenes. Both the clean and corrupted states for each area are meticulously well-designed - take 
 a look at a few screenshots and you'll see what I mean. Massive balloons support rickety, twisted 
 wooden structures, ancient ruins crumble, tall towers rise up out of a sea of clouds, gargantuan 
 trees sprawl over long-abandoned temples. In this sense, the new PoP has truly succeeded in creating 
 a living, breathing world of fantasy. Simply looking out over the world is a pleasure.
  
  Unfortunately, not all components of the game are as qualified as the visuals. One gets the impression 
 that the PoP team set out to take the series to the next level with some new features, but in achieving 
 this, lost some of what makes the game engaging.
  
  Platforming is an example of where they nearly succeeded, though. Other titles in the platforming 
 genre can be pretty challenging - require the player to master a series of button presses, shoulder 
 button taps, control waggles. In what I assume was an attempt to make the game more accessible 
 to the average consumer, PoP was designed to use just two buttons: A and B. The challenge comes 
 from timing their use appropriately - run on a wall, tap A to jump before you hit a crevice, tap 
 B to swing on a ring to continue the move, tap B again to swing up a wall, tap A to jump and grab 
 a ledge, tap B, tap A, tap A again...
  
  You get the picture. Ultimately the entire process reminds me a little of a Sonic the Hedgehog 
 game. You know where you're going, and since the designers practically painted a dotted yellow 
 line on the environments you wont really be enjoying the process of figuring out how you'll reach 
 your destination. Instead, the pleasure you get is from watching your character running and performing 
 crazy acrobatics. It's pretty impressive to watch the Prince to slide down a wall, flip to run 
 upside-down under a ledge, flip up on the other side and back flip onto a narrow beam. For me though, 
 the process quickly became old because the my role during all of it was sitting back, placing controller 
 down in front of me and tapping B... B... B... A with my index figer. If you're new to platforming, 
 you'll get a great kick out seeing what the Prince can do. If you aren't, you'll get bored. Fast.
 
  
  The other notably for Prince of Persia is the open world, "chose your own story" aspect of the 
 game. Here you can absolutely see the designers thoughts in action. PoP operates off a hub world 
 system in which players are given the option to progress through the game in any order they chose, 
 so long as they've unlocked the spell necessary to reach it. This means that its possible to fight 
 the game's first four bosses in any order. Its an interesting idea but one that causes more problems 
 that it solves.
  
  I'm thinking particularly plot, especially character development. If you're like me, and the story 
 of a game is paramount, you might be disappointed by how PoP's story progresses. Here for example 
 is the general format for dialog in the game.
  
  Prince: Question?
  
  His Companion, Elika: Wise and thoughtful exposition.
  
  Prince: Snarky response!
  
  (optional 
 second half of dialogue)
  
  Elika: Patient/Incredulous and/or Flirtatious retort.
  
  Prince: Snarky response!
  
  I get the feeling the hub-roaming format just isn't right for the 
 PoP franchise. Because players can complete the story arcs in whatever order they wish, the best 
 the writers can do in terms of progression is come up with mini plots for each of Hub areas. At 
 the end of these mini-plot sections, however, nothing important really changes because nothing 
 can change. All the sequences have to start with the Prince and Elika as the same people or else 
 glaring plot holes arise. As a result Prince doesn't get smarter, more sensitive, more restrained, 
 more in love, more anything, and Elika doesn't resolve her own inner conflicts. It's 10 hours of 
 witty banter without a real, cohesive story, and it oftentimes contradicts itself.
  
  And the ending. Oh, the ending is abysmal.
  
  That being said, the writing occasionally pulls 
 itself out of its rut and surprises you with some very witty interactions. There's a point when 
 the Prince gets bored and he challenges Elika to a word game that actually made me chuckle... and 
 that's rare. In the end I like to think of the Prince of Persia writers as a bunch of talented 
 people who did the best they could with a bad story idea handed down from above.
  
  In conclusion, Prince of Persia delivers varying levels of satisfaction depending on what the player 
 hopes to get out of it. If you seek stunning visuals and a fantasy setting, look no further. If 
 you like platforming or would like to try it for the first time, you may find some satisfaction. 
 If you love story, this game is not for you, though you might get a kick out of some of the dialog.
 
  
  My advice? Rent it. PoP is a short experience - I beat it in under 10 hours - and I was left with 
 little desire to replay it. But that 10 hours passed enjoyably enough, especially since a single 
 playthrough earned me about 600 achievement points. I'd absolutely consider that worth 10 bucks 
 at Blockbuster, but I warn you: pay any more and you'll come to know the true meaning of buyer's 
 remorse.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eajack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 9:21 am PT
Review:  Having just finished Prince of Persia, I am disappointed I have to wait for the inevitable sequel. 
 The latest Prince game is a complete reinvention over the Sands of Time trilogy, and that isn't 
 necessarily a bad thing. In fact, in today's age of recycled games and milking franchises to death, 
 this is a breath of fresh air. I seem to be going against popular opinion here, but I feel this 
 is one of the best games of 2008. I even enjoyed it more than Game of the Year winner, Fallout 
 3.
  
  There are some who say the game is too easy. Sure, with an AI character who saves your butt anytime 
 you take a leap into a bottomless pit, or get your rear handed to you by one of the Corrupted, 
 you could call the game easy. There are no Game Over or Reloading screens. But why should that 
 be a bad thing? In any other game, when you take a dive or get squashed, you have to reload back 
 to a checkpoint. What's the difference if a companion whisks you back to that checkpoint or a loading 
 screen does? It's the same net result, and in fact the way PoP does it, your immersion in the game 
 isn't broken by those annoying loading screens.
  
  Something else that PoP does differently is treat every combat in the game like an epic battle. 
 You don't mow through hoards of fodder like the prince of old, and when you do encounter a baddie, 
 the combat is exciting and meaningful. Every fight is a visual treat with complex and acrobatic 
 moves. You can chain together different types of attacks along with flips and dives to take out 
 your foe. And in some cases, use the environment in your favor. You will also use quick-time button 
 presses to avoid certain foe counterattacks. But how does combat work in a game where you can't 
 die? Quite well, actually. Your companion will save you if you get into trouble. The penalty is 
 your opponent has a chance to regain lost health. I like this concept because it is a lot less 
 frustrating than losing a battle only to have to reload the game and start all over.
  
  Visually, the game has been reinvented with what Ubisoft calls the Illustrative style. What this 
 means is the game's visual tone looks more like the concept art than the typical computer generated 
 renderings. I think this gives the game a lot of warmth and feel to it. The characters have a cartoon 
 or comic vibe to them that is not often used in games. The world itself is fantastical, with towering 
 spires and mechanical wonders. There is nothing here you'd see in any history books, but the visual 
 style lends itself well to the game.
  
  Others have said that this new prince is annoying and grating on the nerves. I disagree. I feel 
 that the relationship between the prince and Elika is much like that of Han Solo and Princess Leia. 
 With that in mind, the dialog between the two works perfectly. And the player has the option to 
 initiate as much or as little of the dialog as you'd like. I am a big fan of the Sands of Time 
 trilogy, but I think I'd have to choose this prince and Elika as my favorite duo.
  
  The story, while pure fiction, has roots in the oldest religion in the world. A dark god is escaping 
 his prison, and it is up to you to stop his spread of corruption. It may be typical game fare nowadays, 
 but the story carries the game along as it should. While the game is fairly predictable, the ending 
 has a bit of a twist you might not be expecting. And it all leads to the inevitable sequel. A sequel, 
 I might add, will pain my heart to have to wait for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Celleon
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:38 am PT
Review:  first off, i had never played the other Prince of Persia games, but i imgined them to be somthing 
 like Jak and Daxter, except a more seriouse and dark atmoshpere. but as i read other's say, that 
 this game was way different from the Prince of Persia games that came before it. i walked in too 
 this game not know what to expect.
  
  First impressions-
  i feel like i am playing one of those old sonic games, where you aren't really thinking just running 
 around this and watching this strange creature jump and spin in a colorful 2d world. It isn't so 
 much as challenging as it is relaxing. in Prince of Persia, it is the same feeling you jump around 
 and watch as the pretty graphics and easy game play give you a mental massage.
  
  controls/ game play-
  smooth sailing with the jumping and climbing controls however, the battle 
 sequences are horrible . whenever you find an enemy the game does this weird fighting game, type 
 of fighting. which is horrible mostly because the game is so smooth with the running and jumping 
 around. that when you hit a battle sequence it throws the whole feel of the game. also it require 
 a lot of blocking, and just regular block, you have to block at the right moment or it fails and 
 you are thrown into a loosing streak. and the distance attacks, are weird on when you can successfully 
 preform them. Which is never unless you are close enough to use your sword, which is easier to 
 do combos with, cus if you mash it 3x and hit any other colored button it is a combo. however once 
 you get used to it the game regains it's smooth relaxing feel.
  
  blah blah blah i am tired as #$%!!
  
  if you like platform game this game is for you, i wouldn't 
 suggest this game over all the other platform games out there, but i will tell you that it is fun 
 and nice to play if you want to unwind from work or school.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nokoryous
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 12:55 am PT
Review:  I was entertained with this game for about three or four hours. I hear it takes 12 to beat, but 
 I won't bother since I rented it.
  
  Despite a stunningly enchanting world and initially unique gameplay mechanics, PoP shoots itself 
 in the foot with repetitiveness, and then shoots itself in the other foot with everything left 
 in the chamber via an array of problems, foremost of which is simplicity. For instance, if you 
 were to control the Prince to jump from a ledge over a chasm, slam into the wall and cling, hoist 
 himself up to a higher grip on another ledge, and pull himself up to stand on that ledge, the control 
 scheme would look like this: Left Stick - up, press A. Seriously. This ultimately leads you to 
 feel like you are more or less just watching the parts of the game that you are actually playing.
 
  
  The graphics for the environment are fantastic, but the artistic style here is predominantly 3D, 
 but slaps some cell-shader black outlines around the characters and tries to pass itself off as 
 a cartoon. I haven't seen a worse clash since Matthew Lesko's question mark suit. The voice acting 
 is poor at best, and the American game publisher's default plan of casting American voice actors 
 for these Persian characters leaves a stain on this game that Billy Mayes couldn't Oxiclean out 
 of the "Carpets this thick!"
  
  A couple of snotty lines from the late adolescent Prince can't charm this game into a higher rating. 
 Simplified controls and inability to die rob the player of any real involvement with this title. 
 Hopefully Princess Elika can flash in and save the next installment from these premature pitfalls. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Good- Beautiful Graphics. Fun for a while. Great story.
  
  Bad- Repetitive, Boring after a bit, The chick saves you when you fall. And you fall too much. 
 Battle system is dumb.
  
  Well I expected highly of this game and when I got it I had a frown planted on my face. I beat 
 the first fourth of the game and it was the exact same as the other two fourths. The game is fun 
 for the first fourth however. I am not a fan of the assassins creed engine so I was mad when I 
 figured out that this works the same way. He walks too slow and the commands all share the same 
 button. 
  
  The battle system is stupid and the chick is useless. You button mash and desultorily press buttons 
 and hope you win. If you do, you come back to life. He gain health. Id rather start over.
  
  Although beautiful this game was stupid and I recommend a mere rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KartoTolmex
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:46 am PT
Review:  First things first, I haven't played any other Prince of Persia game. This can either be looked 
 upon favorably in that I am writing this review with absolutely no bias, or negatively as I have 
 no idea about the series' routes or the development of it.
  
  Graphics
  
  I'll be honest, the graphics are what drew me to this game, and have held my interest from initial 
 announcement to release and this review. Areas look fantastic and the developer's know this, many 
 a location has a ledge in which the Prince can stand and gaze over the landscape, much like Assassin's 
 Creed and the viewpoints (sorry the comparisons between the two are impossible to avoid, it is 
 obvious that Ubisoft Montreal have drawn from their experience, and this isn't a bad thing) , except 
 without the annoyance that you have to go to them to further the game. 
  The Prince and Elika look beautiful as well, and are animated extremely well, from the fluid wall/roof 
 running, to the flash of magical blue when you perform a co-op jump.
  Monsters also look gorgeous in their own way as well, black corruption oozing from them, and parries 
 and attacks looking both elegant and deadly with great ease, as well as having fantastic "trail" 
 effects from sword swings and the like (it has to be seen to be understood) .
  
  Sound
  
  SFX
  What you would expect from someone running across walls, thudding on floors and grabbing 
 the hand of a partner. Everything sounds as you would imagine it would, and anything magical in 
 the world sounds equally magical too.
  
  BGM
  I felt the musical score kind of took a back seat in this game, it shows its face every now and 
 then, but then sort of goes away and hides in the corner. It can still be heard, but it just isn't 
 noticeable.
  Normally in a game I can pick out a piece that I thought was really good, but in this nothing strikes 
 me, for good or bad. This can be seen as good, as the music has never overshadowed play, but is 
 also a missed opportunity as I feel an epic musical score can really add to an experience, especially 
 when you're staring at the views in this game, the right music would perfect it.
  
  Voice acting
  I felt the voices were well out of place, from the second I heard the Prince talk 
 to the end of the game. Brazen American tones really, really do not fit in this world. I understand 
 that the same voice actor has been used as for the previous games, but you would think a calmer, 
 softer option would have been looked at bearing in mind the change of art design.
  Maybe it's me, but it could have been looked at a bit better, I personally would have preferred 
 no voice acting at all it affected me that much.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The game is primarily a platformer, with the frustrating parts taken out. You press one button 
 to jump, the Prince performs his piece of acrobatics, and you press the button again to jump and 
 perform the next piece of acrobatics. Sometimes you'll have to press a different button to grab 
 a "Grapple Ring" to continue along the wall/roof, but for the most part it's mainly watching the 
 Prince perform his actions.
  This isn't a bad thing; it makes you feel skillful without giving you the stress that can accompany 
 performing such moves. A simplistic, fun control scheme is better than a complicated, annoying 
 one. It worked for Assassin's Creed, and it works here too.
  
  Progression occurs in the form of travelling to a series of areas, healing said area, then collecting 
 light seeds in that area. Collect enough light seeds to gain a new power, which enables you to 
 access more areas and repeat the cycle.
  Along the way you will encounter bosses and generic monsters and enter one on one duels. For the 
 most part I enjoyed the combat, stringing together combos is fluid and keeping with the simplistic 
 control scheme quite forgiving. Each time you are required to press a button to attack, the action 
 "delays" for a moment to allow you to input the next command. Should you press the wrong command, 
 as long as you hit another button in the delay period and it's the right one, the combo will continue.
 
  Only qualm I really have is that for the most part it doesn't matter who you're fighting (one 
 enemy requires slightly different tactics) , there isn't any real tactical change, except generic 
 monsters can be instantly killed by getting them to the edge of the arena.
  
  Another side of the combat is the quicktime events, which are activated when your opponent damages 
 you enough in that you must press a button to stop them applying a finisher (or Elika having to 
 step in and heal both you and the enemy, dependant on the way it's viewed) . Quicktime can also 
 be started when the foe feels like it, and most of the time you won't see this coming, lose instantly, 
 and then be presented with the "finisher" quicktime. The strange thing is, is that the quicktime 
 as a last resort is a lot easier to react to then any other event, so most of the time you'll exploit 
 this and just get decked to press the one button and resume.
  
  As mentioned above, Elika steps in to stop you from dying in combat but she also does this when 
 you mess up a jump. Now some regard this as the game not being difficult at all, as this as seen 
 as you never dying, and therefore makes the entire game easy. Granted, this isn't Ninja Gaiden 
 II, but just because a rudimentary "You suck" screen doesn't appear doesn't mean there's no punishment.
 
  Each piece of solid ground acts a checkpoint, and it's from here you will return if you fail to 
 land on the next piece of solid ground. Some platforming sequences can go on for a few minutes, 
 so if Elika has to step in, it's a sizable distance you have to retrack as punishment. Personally 
 I think this system is fantastic in that you don't have to reload every time you fail, which to 
 me is like insult to injury that you have to watch a loading screen as well as being dead. Prince 
 of Persia doesn't have that, and therefore doesn't have the accompanying annoyance, which I feel 
 is a massive plus.
  
  The story ambles along quite nicely, follows your normal stereotypes and throws in a twist at the 
 end for good measure. Nothing to make you gasp in disbelief and nothing to make you shudder with 
 woe. Acceptable and that's good enough for me.
  
  Lifespan
  
  This isn't a long game, there's even an achievement/trophy for completing the game in under twelve 
 hours and this is generous I feel. Of course it depends on how much time you take, but my first 
 play involved collecting 650 light seeds, never rushing or reloading and I achieved it quite comfortably. 
 
  Depending on your inclination you can draw more longevity from the game by collecting every light 
 seed, but outside of the story required amount, the console player has no reason to do this. The 
 PC version unlocks the fourth skins should you attain 1001 light seeds, but console players only 
 receive achievements for their efforts. While this is enough for some people (any excuse to stay 
 in this world for me was gratefully lapped up) it may not be for others. I wonder if we are to 
 receive the skins in an update or we'll have something different entirely (DLC no doubt) .
  
  Conclusion
  
  Prince of Persia is a great game, and I have enjoyed every moment of it. 
 Much of the criticism I feel comes from the fact that this is a sequel, and someone is ALWAYS annoyed 
 when a sequel is released regardless of the manner in which it is.
  Sure it has it's comparisons to Assassin's Creed, but that game was great fun, and this is an evolution 
 of that concept, so how can this not be fun as well?
  
  Play this game, keeping in mind to block out the negativity surrounding it. People reacted with 
 disgust when the world was theorized to be round, and while not on the same scale, I think the 
 same applies here.
  
  Available for the Playstation 3, Xbox 360 (version played) and PC
  
  Review Score: 8/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UVERproject
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  The graphics
  The cel-shading in this game is a nice twist, not the first game to do it though but a nice change 
 of pace from a lot of the realism we been getting recently. The scenery of the different places 
 you jump from are cool no stone left unturned. You can tell if you can make a jump or not cause 
 of how detailed everything is. There is definitely a lot to see in Persia.
  
  The Gameplay
  So heres the kicker. This game got bashed on it's gameplay from other reviewers. 
 The combat is a bit tricky. It can be repetitive if you make it repetitive. You see you can either 
 start out by attacking with your sword or your claw or do something acrobatic. Then when you get 
 your partner she can also attack so your left with a variety of options after you make your first 
 hit. The combos are flashy and you can do a lot of cool moves that make you feel amped that as 
 your playing and you want to move on to the next. The platforming and the climbing is a step up 
 from the older games. You can still do a lot of the old moves like run on walls and climb on poles. 
 Now for some new moves. You can climb on walls to a point and jump off. You can use that claw you 
 got and tread down the wall slower. You can actually also crawl across ceilings to get from different 
 points. This prince is has truely stepped up his game and with his partner she can throw him farther 
 distances to get to where he needs to go. Heres where what I truely love about this game. You can 
 not die. If you miss a jump and you will, she will come save you. Everytime I mean it.
  
  The Story
  Sick story. A little generic and already done but it's the diolouge that made this 
 story sick. I mean it was go and cleanse the lands to weaken some evil king and blah. That was 
 not whats important. It's the optional diolouge that occurs through out the story and the cutscenes. 
 They are all entertaining. Everything the prince says is wicked funny and I could not stop laughing 
 . I mean he was wicked retarded with everything he said. Then heres what made it great. An intergrating 
 story and nonlinear. The stages were go as you please so you could go to a certain place then another 
 completly place. And the cutscene wont interfer with each other and you won't be left feeling like 
 you missing something cause they have simple diolouge that intersect but dont interfer. It was 
 pretty sick.
  
  The selling point
  A sweet game that is nothing like the previous sequls like the two thrones are whatever. It took 
 a clean slate and worked something brilliant into the mixed giving us something we really liked 
 in the first Prince of Persia for the PS2, It has a lot of replay value cause its a good laugh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretnoob
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  
  
  I don't understand that element of the game. The entire game you play as the Prince and you know 
 it's the prince because the game says PRINCE OF PERSIA and there's a picture of HIM! But the entire 
 game the dialogue vaguely talks about him to conceal this well known fact, so I spent much of the 
 game trying to convince my self I didn't know this easily discovered fact. 
  
  Now, with that out of the way, we can speak of the other elements. You play as a mysterious, completely 
 unknown traveler, unless of course you can read. You stumble upon a woman by the name of Eleka, 
 who is running from some baddies when you agree to help her escape. You discover she has magical 
 powers and is trying to stop an evil baddie, Ahriman, from destroying all the goodness, ever. 
 
  
  So one of the draws is that you may pick what order you do levels in. Though this sounds awesome 
 when speaking at the press conference, in practice it can be very frustrating. There is always 
 a nagging feeling in your head that you're doing something wrong, and more importantly, the terrible 
 feeling of repetition. In order to best deal with the problem of a difficulty curve, every level 
 design must be similar, which makes you feel like you're doing the same thing over and over. 
 
  
  However, its almost ok because traversing the levels is incredibly fun. This is something Ubisoft 
 does well, you run along walls and leap around with incredible ease which is very satisfying. Plus 
 the visual aesthetic of the game, which was controversial initially and what I thought would break 
 the game, is very enjoyable and works well with the freerunning elements. 
  
  Unfortunately, the combat is pathetic. I've almost never dreaded entering fights with mobs this 
 much. Whereas in previous Prince titles where the freerunning was combined with the combat, this 
 feels much more Assassin's Creed like, where you shuffle toward the enemy, slowly, and start mashing. 
 It doesn't help that every fight takes place on the same stage and feels the exact same every. 
 single. time.
  
  Finally dialogue is odd. I found it interesting to find that the Prince of Persia was actually 
 American. At least his voice said so, and the cute American sounding lines every time you finish 
 a "level" grew old, quickly. Eleka's lines were the exact same, but luckily, you could decide when 
 she gets to speak!
  
  Overall, I was picky, I say rent it for the freeruning alone. 
  
  And yes, the fact that you were the Prince was no Secret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paranoidskitzo
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2009 12:02 am PT
Review:  Yet another POP! First of all the game is much easier to play than the previous games, this I think 
 is a bad change. I loved the way the other POP games offered a challenge to me. This one on the 
 other hand gave to many favors. Such as Elika saving your hide every time you didn't get it right. 
 I liked the sand that you used to have to spend on such expenditures, but now that seems to be 
 a freebie! BS!! All the puzzles thus far seemed to be dumbed down for those who were not able to 
 complete the prior games of the series. combat is cool, besides the lack of health and the ability 
 to easily overcome death! Having a sidekick (Elika) is a completely new experience compared to 
 old game play. Elika adds to the battle portion of the game but totally robs from the abilities 
 that were once found in POP. The new POP should have been much more challenging like warrior within. 
 Otherwise not that bad and worth playing, especially if you are a fan of POP!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ansuk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the games on the original Xbox i was really excited when i saw this planned and ordered 
 it for release day. Sadly i was and still am very dissapointed with this.
  
  The problem for me is they seem to have taken all the good bits out of the originals and replaced 
 them with a pretty girl and an average story.
  
  The combat has been completely changed which was one of the selling points of the original. Combat 
 was always fun, graphic and easy to find new moves. With this, all you have are a couple of moves 
 to learn, no graphic decapitations and such and then a pretty girl who has her own moves, none 
 of which are impressive or particularly damaging to the enemy.
  
  Then there is the repetition. You need to collect light balls from each level in order to amass 
 enough to open a special ability and move on. The problem is, if you don't collect enough of these 
 light balls the first time round, which frankly seems impossible sometimes, you simply cannot move 
 on so you then have to search through the levels you've already completed to find more light balls 
 to open the special ability. This is plain boring!
  
  Take that you need to go through the same levels repeatedly along with all the great fighting stripped 
 out it makes for a pretty boring game play!
  
  Sure, it does look good on an HD TV and the story is 'OK' but that alone doesn't make for an exciting 
 play experience. 
  In fact, this doesn't even feel like POP but instead feels like a completely different game and 
 a boring one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaVILiOn_010
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 3:24 pm PT
Review:  First of all, this is nothing like the previous Prince of Persia series. The previous Prince series 
 was dark, twisted and in some places brutal. The newest iteration couldn't be more different. It 
 has lighthearted, often times funny dialogue, and a mystical and engrossing story. The characters 
 can be dramatic and serious, without being cheesy, or funny without being groan-inducing. That 
 is a major component that Prince gets right, and it is major because this has hurt many great platformers 
 in the long-run. The graphics are beautifully animated, and rarely have glitches. However, one 
 glitch I ran into showed the fall-saving mechanism from a zoomed out view (if you have played the 
 game, you know what I'm talking about) . Speaking of saves, this game is extremely forgiving, which 
 is another major issue some platformers have. Let's get one thing straight: it is seriously hard 
 to die in this game. If you miss a platform or jump too far or etc., the supporting character, 
 Elika, saves you with magic and returns you to the last platform you landed on. This mechanism 
 is great for first time players, or anyone really. The score is probably the best I have heard 
 in a long time. But I have one huge gripe: there is no fast travel between large locations. The 
 world is huge, and your character is pretty slow moving. You can only fast travel to the base location, 
 which kind of sucks. Overall, this is an excellent game, and it is fun for anyone no matter what 
 age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 3:15 am PT
Review:  The current vogue among game developers is to resurrect old franchises with a shiny lick of high-definition 
 paint. Some are successful like Tomb Raider and Fallout, while the less said about Turok the better. 
 Now it's the turn of 20-year old stalwart Prince of Persia, although the politically incorrect 
 name has survived intact.
  
  Rather than continuing the story of the arguably stale Sands of Time trilogy, Ubisoft have gone 
 back to the drawing board. Gone are the emo Prince and his collection of My Chemical Romance records, 
 replaced with a more cocky and carefree adventurer. The contrast is jarring for fans of the series, 
 while newcomers might be equally insulted by his crass Americanization, but somehow he grows on 
 you. 
  
  The heart of the game is a carefully constructed ballet of platforms, plinths and hazards. Each 
 area of the game's open world has been 'corrupted' with black slime that eats through careless 
 Princes faster than a starving tiger. Luckily the Prince has some incredible acrobatics at his 
 disposal, swinging off poles and scaling walls with the greatest of ease. Equally impressive is 
 the presentation with its bold art design and peerless animation. 
  
  Elika, a princess with convenient magic abilities, accompanies the Prince. Her powers can be used 
 to save the Prince from plummeting to a painful death, boost his jumps and attack enemies. However, 
 these aren't nearly as interesting as the interaction between her and the Prince. Their relationship 
 brings to mind that of Yorda and Ico in the PS2 classic Ico. They cooperate to navigate the environment, 
 filling the downtime with some witty and often sexually charged banter.
  
  It's worrying, then, that all of the brilliant writing and most of the plot exposition is entirely 
 optional. Players must actively interact with Elika to talk about her back-story. I suspect many 
 will not bother, since it breaks the flow of the action, which is not the level of attention the 
 story deserves. Simply allowing the main characters to chat while you play seems an obvious suggestion.
 
  
  Your task is to head to the centre of each stage and use Elika's power to heal the land. As you 
 progress Elika attains new powers, allowing the Prince to run up walls and bounce between plates 
 over long distances. The levels are well designed and feel rewarding, if a little light on challenge 
 at times.
  
  The surprisingly relaxing platforming is juxtaposed with some combat sequences, which are pretty 
 dull indeed. While the infrequent fights against generic soldiers of death are short-lived, encounters 
 with the four unique boss characters are much more drawn-out. This would be acceptable if only 
 you didn't have to fight each boss on five separate occasions, using the same strategy each time.
 
  
  Other aspects of the game seem included for bragging purposes, rather than because they fundamentally 
 improve the experience. Once an area has been cleansed of corruption it becomes populated with 
 collectable 'light seeds' which, you guessed it, must be collected arbitrarily to progress further. 
 Although the Prince is free to tackle stages in any order, I can't help but feel that a tighter 
 and more linear adventure would have been preferred. 
  
  Prince of Persia marks a successful new era for the franchise, even if there's plenty of room for 
 improvement in the inevitable sequel. Often thrilling, if never spectacular, it's definitely more 
 Fresh Prince than Emperor's New Clothes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero_libra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is a bit of a new step for a PoP game but it retains the platforming and no rewinding 
 time is replaced by the help of a partner to help you from dieing more on this later.
  the look of the game is amazing but the enviroments are a bit empty and like old PoP's it is a 
 tad linear on the how you want to go but this time round you have an orb you can follow so no more 
 not seeing whether you can make that jump or is that a ledge some might say this takes the challange 
 out of it but i like it and plus you dont have to use it.
  I like the combat in this game it's less hack and slash and more a dueling mechanic and the thing 
 with this game is you cannot die everytime you plunge to your doom you're female friend will use 
 her magic to save you, this is very useful and i think this should be implemented in every platformer 
 in some form (frequent checkpoints, rewind time etc) .
  this is a great game to just play it's nothing hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RollingMeatball
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  Gone is the dark, aggresive Prince and out comes the more modernized, likable Prince we've been 
 waiting for since Sands of Time. Something about the badass Prince just didn't cut with me. Maybe 
 it was his cheap likability, or the charmless grittiness that just didn't suit him at all. So now, 
 back to the more polite and reinformed version of him, accompnied by a sexy female companion known 
 as Elika. 
  
  The story goes like this: Upon wondering in the canyons for his precious doney Farah, he bumps 
 into an escapee running away from hostile soldiers. So without agreement, you decide to pursue 
 her in her adventure. Little do you know what's in store for you. The evil god Ahriman is released 
 by none of other than Elika's father, in which you are forced to take him down. Along the way, 
 you most heal corrupted lands, while using complex platforming techniques and bumping into various 
 hostiles.
  
  First of all, I have to say the voice acting is terrific, and extremley sympathetic, even if it 
 does get a little cheesy at times. Elika is the more pleasing of the two, and unlike the Prince's, 
 dosen't become tedious in the slightest. The story, although straightfoward, is told in a pleasant 
 and lively way, and for all you people who don't really connect with storylines, who choose wether 
 to approach it or not. Along the story, pressing the left trigger would cause you to speak to Elika, 
 and hear she reveals the current events, and even past of each character and the land itself. 
 
  
  The platform components work perfectly, as we expect from a PoP game. You use free-running, sliding 
 and grappling techniques (to name a few) to get to the other side. Despite it being fun and all, 
 the game limits in difficulty, due to one button per obstacle. Once you click the required button 
 to pass the barrier, you could be waiting 5 seconds due to it automatically doing it for you. Manual 
 manuevers would be much more prefable.
  
  But the combat is where the game really slopes, thanks to clumbsy controls, and repetetive fight 
 system. It's basically button smashing, but it dosen't help when you're fighting the same boss 
 every 10 minutes. Again, it bounds in difficulty, and eventually becomes tedious and almost repetitive. 
 The combat system does nothing, and everytime you see a black whirlwind ready to respawn my next 
 foe, I silently sigh. 
  
  If there's one thing that keeps this game on it's toes, is the phenomenal artistic design in both 
 the enviroments and characters. I garuntee there will be some point in the game where you stop 
 for 10 seconds, twirl the camera, and appreciate the game's scenery with great interest. The fact 
 that each frame was painted, was unbelievable. I will take this game's visuals over Crysis' any 
 day.
  
  For you achievement freaks, it's an easy 1000 GS. These include collecting pigeon equevilent's 
 'Light Seeds' in which brings in the game's difficulty to it's peak. There's also achievement's 
 for facing bosses with limited actions, such as not use grab on a certain enemy. Then there's plenty 
 of story achievements on offer, in fact I think they are worth almost half gamerscore. 
  
  Overall, a nice break from shooters. Whilst being far from the game of the year, it's a fairly 
 enjoyable platformer that we've been for for time. It dosen't match to Sands of Time, but may be 
 equel rating wise to Warrior Within. For those expecting a challenge, prepared to be monumentaly 
 disappointed. I ask to treat this game as an experience rather than an actual game, and you will 
 be vastly fond of it, and hopefully dismiss the majority of it's flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 8:13 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  - brilliant visual and sound design
  - absolutely charming Elika and cynical prince
  - wonderful, open-ended world to explore
  
 
  NAYS
  - repetitive boss fights
  - it feels it ends too soon
  - not challenging
  
  The past Prince of Persia trilogy has slowly transformed from a fairytale, to a combat-heavy dark 
 game to a mix of both worlds. While the each game was successful in its own thing, the trilogy 
 as a whole lacked coherency.
  
  Ubisoft decided to ditch the old prince and bring in a new one with a new tale. The new outing 
 is mostly successful, but falls short on a few things depending on how willing you are to let go 
 of gaming conventions we have been used to for years.
  
  The new prince starts off in the desert, looking for his lost donkey Farah. He quickly stumbles 
 upon Elika, who will be your companion for the rest of the game, and while she initially runs away, 
 this first are serves as a guide on your typical platforming. You're up against Ahriman, the dark 
 God who has been set loose by Elika's own father. Throughout your travels, you'd be going through 
 the Corrupted areas in order to heal them before heading off to Ahriman himself. It sounds almost 
 like Okami, almost literally sometimes, as both games utilize this dark/light/healing mechanism 
 identically (even the healing effects are the same, though admittedly done better in Okami) .
  
  During this chase sequence you'd quickly notice that the new prince controls fluidly, and his 
 platforming bits are quite easy to pull off and are visually impressive. That's a great thing since 
 most of the game would be spent traversing the landscape with impossible acrobatics. 
  
  You'd also quickly notice that the combat has drastically changed. Instead of fighting on multiple 
 enemies, the prince fights off only one-on-one battles. It's usually as simple as it sounds. You 
 have your sword attack, gauntlet attack, aerobic attacks as well as Elika's magic. Not to mention 
 blocking. You have different combos at your disposal, and you can seamlessly string together a 
 long combo by mixing up combos from the before-mentioned abilities.
  
  While pulling off a combo with a regular enemy - of which is a rare sight - to have half the health 
 bar taken off, boss fights are a bit of a challenge. The four bosses - each of which you'd fight 
 multiple times - have their own unique strategy to defeat, and get stronger and more aggressive 
 with each subsequent fight. The combat though is mostly a visual flair and a test of reflexes. 
 Your combos as well as the bosses' showcase a wonderful array of stylish cinematic sequences. You'd 
 flip Elika into the air while you slide below the enemy, shoot him or her up to Elika for a magic 
 attack, and do an aerial dance with swords and magic before hurling down to earth. It's magnificent 
 to look at, to say the least. 
  
  This doesn't mean bosses are not tough. The difficulty in the bosses isn't getting their health 
 bar down but rather actually hitting him. They love to deflect and block your attacks, which is 
 almost always followed by a counterattack that gives you little room to block or deflect, hence 
 initiating your own counter attack. These deflects are also a visual flair, and a lot of the combat 
 is spent on gaining the upper hand in the swordplay. Interrupting the combos and the deflection 
 tug of war are quick-time events, which add a nice touch to the combat. In the case of a missed 
 quick-time event, Elika saves the prince at the expense of the boss regaining a significant chunk 
 of health.
  
  While the combat is very minimal (with the exception of the boss fights you'd barely encounter 
 an enemy or two per level) , you'd spend most of the game pulling off awesome moves to move around 
 the level. Your typical ledge and wall walking, jumping off poles and whatnot all return. And better 
 than ever. This time, most of these are stringed together, and the platforming elements are exhilarating. 
 New to this game are platform plates, which utilize Elika's powers. These are unlocked gradually 
 throughout the game. The four plates offer the prince - with Elika's help - different platforming 
 sequences and it is then that you would appreciate the level design. Red and blue plates send the 
 prince and Elika jumping off to a distant platform and hard to reach areas. Some of them send you 
 jumping from location to location in succession to overcome a large chasm for instance. Green plates 
 send our prince running along walls to the next plate, and offers a decent amount of challenge, 
 but is quite fun to watch as the vertical becomes the horizontal and you'd be walking on ceilings 
 and sides of structures that represent the level in a new way. The yellow plates send you flying 
 off completely in the air, and offer a great amount of fun as you maneuver around obstacles to 
 reach a plate that is placed in the most unorthodox place to reach the most obscure areas of a 
 level.
  
  While these platforming elements start off slowly, no sooner than you acquire a couple of these 
 that levels become more complex, utilizing your standard platforming as well as the plates. These 
 sections that require a combination of many things are superbly done, thanks to the brilliant level 
 design, and the sensation of accomplishment for having pulled of such a feat is awesome (though 
 most of it easy) . 
  
  Thanks to the open-ended world, all levels interconnect and you can take on them in any order you 
 wish. Revisiting areas is not uncommon, though you can teleport for your convenience once the area 
 has been purged of evil. However a second run through the newly-vegetated areas would put your 
 platforming to the test to collect all the light orbs.
  
  In between all the combat and the platforming, you never die. Ever. Elika saves you every time 
 you miss a ledge, or fall into a pit, to restore you to the last stable ground you were on. During 
 combat, Elika saves you but the enemy recharges its health.
  
  While critics mentioned that this made the game easy, in reality this is a clever way to get rid 
 of elements that disrupt the experience. The game is about flow. A game over screen or being defeated 
 in battle would disrupt this flow.
  
  So instead of a game over and a reload, you are simply transported to the last checkpoint. Instead 
 of dying in battle, the boss simply replenishes the health. Or some of it. It's an innovative way 
 to keep the player immersed. While the downside of it is the illusion of a lack of challenge, your 
 skill determines how much you have been "saved" by Elika. So you can take it as a challenge upon 
 yourself to minimize those.
  
  The game's best characteristics, though, are the astounding visual design and the character interaction. 
 Levels are beautifully detailed and dreamlike. The shattered, dark gruesome areas with the Corruption 
 are quite distinct than their healed counterparts - which are full of life, green, vegetation and 
 light. The flairs, character animations, clothes and models are an art showcase.
  
  However it is the interactions between the prince and Elika that steal the show. They're constantly 
 chatting with each other, to give an insight to the story, but you can also chat up on ridiculous 
 things such as the undying cynicism of the prince or the admirable idealism of Elika. They're quite 
 charming and humorous. The interaction goes beyond talks, though. With Elika with you all the time, 
 and aside from saving you from your death, she helps you double jump, she will leap on your back 
 as you scale walls, and the two of your will stumble and throw jokes at each other when you try 
 to get to her part of the ledge or pole and vice versa.
  
  These small interactions accumulate throughout the game and force you to fall in love with Elika, 
 which makes the game's ending quite an emotional one. The unique way of taking on the final boss 
 fight is also a nice innovative touch, and it is when you appreciate Elika with you the most.
 
  
  For me, there are two annoyances, one minor and the other major. The minor annoyance is that the 
 voice acting is American which doesn't fit the Middle-Eastern fairytale game. Elika's voice is 
 superb, though, which is good since she talks the most.
  
  The major issue in the game is the repetition. While it is less noticeable in the platforming parts, 
 the combat is particularly repetitive. The same boss will fight in the same manner in every battle 
 sequence. He or she or it may be a bit more aggressive or defensive, but the basic strategy is 
 the same. It is a shame really since the boss fights are the highlight - if not only - parts of 
 the real combat. If there had been different ways to defeat them every time it would have been 
 nice.
  
  The new Prince of Persia isn't about combat. While the few of it is interesting visually, it isn't 
 about the challenge. The game is really about exploration and enjoying the ride, uninterrupted, 
 and enjoy the breathtaking visuals and the enchanting fairytale magic. You need to throw away gaming 
 conventions as well as previous perceptions of what a PoP game should be like. Embrace the innovation 
 and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rma341
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 4:12 am PT
Review:  I've played and enjoyed every Prince of Persia game dating back to the original in my Commodore 
 days. These were fantastic games that were fun, immersive, and presented a unique action puzzle 
 challenge interspersed with simplistic-but-entertaining combat. I was hooked from day 1, and I 
 loyally snapped up every sequel that came out on the PC. And even though the later editions in 
 the PC trilogy lost some of the "Persia" atmosphere, they were still really fun and challenging 
 games. Being a recent convert to the Xbox 360, I naturally committed to picking up this latest 
 installment without thinking, and the positive reviews I had read led me to believe I'd be quite 
 happy.
  
  Hearing that the game was based on the Assassin's Creed engine - a game which I thoroughly enjoyed 
 - made me aware that the game would look great even before seeing a single demo. And I wasn't wrong. 
 I really dig the comic book-style visuals, and the scenery is fantastic. But I didn't drop $60 
 for visuals. I needed substance, and this is where PoP failed miserably in my book. I'll break 
 my review down into various components.
  
  STORY:
  This was really good. Even though it still strays away from the whole Persia theme, it captures 
 a good sense of adventure. The story is well done and builds nicely, and the dialog is pretty good 
 for a video game.
  
  PUZZLES:
  This was always my favourite part of the original games, and was a big letdown. For starters, everything 
 is painfully easy. There's no challenge, and even though the older games were pretty linear, this 
 game disappoints in that it tries to portray itself as "open" because it inherits the Assassin's 
 Creed engine, but it's even more linear. I could have played this game with my eyes closed. Even 
 worse, there was no challenge to putting together the move combinations needed to get past a tough 
 part. Whereas before, you had to sit and think what part of the environment you could exploit and 
 what string of moves you'd need to execute, this game has basically one simple path, and the developers 
 even went through the effort of labelling the right path for you just in case you can't figure 
 it out... The lack of a death or time penalty just made it easier to mess around until moving to 
 the next part.
  
  NAVIGATION:
  I'll admit, the visuals you get when you come across a cool vista or pull off a nice move are impressive. 
 But I found myself really not caring all that much about summersaulting my way through a corridor 
 when all I had to do was hit the right button two or three times. The Prince moves all over the 
 screen, but it has little to do with what I'm actually doing, and that kills all the reward.
  
  COMBAT: 
  This was the absolute worst part of the game, and I barely consider what PoP presented 
 here to be "combat". PoP games never put the emphasis on combat, but it was always a lot of fun. 
 They always kept the fighting system simple, but there was always a lot of variation you could 
 pull with a limited array of moves. There was also the possibility that you could lose a fight. 
 Here, the system is still simple and actually looks pretty nice. In fact, it would be alright in 
 and of itself. However, the absolute dumbest thing about the combat here is the constant interruptions 
 where you have to quickly tap the button that appears on the screen, or else Elika needs to save 
 you and the whole fight gets prolonged as your oponent regains health. This stupid feature not 
 only disrupts the continuity of the fight (I can assume in the name of presenting "pretty" cut-scenes) , 
 but it reduces combat to a game of Simon Says. There are some combinations that look pretty cool, 
 but they are honestly pretty pointless because you can easily get by just mashing the buttons with 
 the same effect. The fact that you can't lose a fight because Elika will always keep you alive 
 just means that fights become boring, drawn out affairs that you just want to get out of the way 
 so you can move on to the next part of the adventure.
  
  LOOK & FEEL:
  Again, the graphics in the game are awesome. The scenery looks beautiful and the characters are 
 drawn in a cool, unique way. The acrobatics and motion can at times look phenomenal. It's clear 
 that the developers spent most of their time on this part of the game. If there's an issue I had, 
 it was that with the 3D, you could sometimes get into a situation where it's not possible to see 
 something you totally should be able to see, although that's not terribly uncommon in these types 
 of games.
  
  SUMMARY:
  As a BIG fan of the franchise, I tried really hard to like this game. And truth be told, I'm still 
 happy I bought it. Maybe I'm being overly harsh because I'm holding it up to a lofty standard, 
 but I really felt disappointed with this game. In hindsight, I look at it as a really nice visual 
 and story representation of one of my favourite video game franchises, with the price of admission 
 being having to plow through a sub-par game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dliv666
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:05 am PT
Review:  This is a game that wins you over as you play it, it builds and builds, it gets better and better. 
 Its a beautiful smooth ride with UBISOFT making all the right decisions. The game needs the much 
 debated "no death function", which results in a more immersive enjoyable experience where you are 
 never away from the action for more than an instant. The game has some good length and can be enjoyed 
 by any age group, as it is not graphically violent. It is also not a complete push over like FABLE 
 2, and at times becomes reasonably challenging especially when trying to get your hands on the 
 hard to reach LIGHT SEEDS. But these very slight sticking points are easily overshadowed by a Beautifully 
 designed world with great character models. The Prince and Elika are especially lovable characters 
 with lots of clever and funny things to say. The level designs start off good and continuously 
 introduce new elements to keep you engaged .......... it is simply a lot of fun stringing a bunch 
 of manouvers together and watching the Prince twist and turn on high ledges and walls in an attempt 
 to avoid the ever gathering Darkness. 
  
  The combat is also cleverly designed with a strong focus on visual presentation, and the intentional 
 one-on-one combat sequences give the game a unique feel. I believe this was the right decision 
 as the game could have easily disappeared among the other lesser platform/beat'em ups which offer 
 little outside of brainless repetitive combat. 
  
  But at its core this game is just a GREAT Platformer, the likes of which has almost disappeared 
 from the new generation consoles. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SandboxAddict
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 3:34 am PT
Review:  Jaw dropping graphics in this one, and an art direction that get's a 10+.
  
  I am glad that the game was not as difficult as Sands of times could be in the combat department, 
 but i was more often frustrated and glad the battle was over then that i got a kick out of slashing 
 enemies. Sure, you can have the Altair skin, but the real Altair knew how to slash, hack and defeat! 
 How i missed his skill, playing PoP...
  Every enemy i encountered with a big sigh, hoping to get lucky and get it over with. And let me 
 at to that: i hate quick time events!! Never understood it!!! Really, how unimmersive can gameplay 
 be!!
  
  Bad design indeed, and done better many times before. Collecting light seeds was fun: you really 
 get to explore this strange, gorgeous world, and feel the sense of altitude. 
  
  A must buy for those who love original graphics, and fun platforming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netopix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  Finally an interesting and fun game I can enjoy and play around the kids. THANK YOU UBISOFT! I 
 know this may not be an important factor for most of you, but it's good to know that they still 
 make good solid suitable games for all ages. With Prince of Persia I can actually play this during 
 game during regular hours instead of waiting until after 10pm. 
  
  In short, this game is similar to the PS2 classic Jak & Daxter: The Precursor Legacy, however it's 
 not quite as good. The graphics are unique and nothing short of fantastic. The "levels" are very 
 well laid out, the sound is good, the story is good, the game is fun, and I think it is a "must 
 have" for any xbox 360 owner.
  
  My only complaint about this game are the controls and once in a while a goofy camera angle. Several 
 times throughout the game though the inaccuracy of the controls will drive you bonkers. 
  
  I think Prince of Persia is a solid 8.5 - 9.0 game. The kids can play it, you can enjoy it, and 
 I recommend it for anyone who loves adventure type games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Indescent_X
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This game has been disputed against since the first trailer came to air. How can they change the 
 prince after the Award winning Sands of Time?
  Trilogy. Have the Cartooned him, Have they destroyed the fabric of time and space. NO. This game 
 is about a completely different guy. Supposedly.
  
  Prince of Persia is an action-adventure and plat-forming video game developed by Ubisoft Montreal 
 and published by Ubisoft. It was released on 
  December 2, 2008 for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, and was released on December 9, 2008 for Microsoft 
 Windows.
  The game is set in ancient Persia, although the exact century is not revealed. In the game, the 
 player assumes the role of the Prince, 
  whose name is not revealed in the game. The Prince is accompanied by a girl named Elika, whom he 
 met after a large sandstorm diverted
  him from his course and he ended up in a mysterious land. Players traverse many different environments 
 using the Prince's acrobatic abilities
  to scale walls and even crawl on the ceilings. Throughout the journey, players combat various enemies 
 as they attempt to cleanse the land of 
  corruption.
  
  I Played this game on the Xbox 360.
  
  My first impression of the game is that it looked allot 
 like the game Okami. Because the entire game has a watercolour effect on the graphics
  Now this game has tried to take a less linear approach to the storyline.
  Having to traverse 
 very to your mission point only for it to be a boss battle, and for it to get you a little closer 
 to the end of the game. 
  and you do this not once, not twice, but about 10 + times. It gets very repetitive very fast. And 
 you fight the same four bosses at least 5 times.
  Another thing that was very annoying is that this game is based in Persia. A distant land... yet 
 all the characters speak like Americans partner.
  That ripped a big hole in my bag of immersion.
  
  As you have gathered a game that gets good 
 grades from me is a game with good immersion. If it lacks that spark it better make up for it in
 
  another way. The Sands of Time trilogy made up for their lack of immersion but creating a kick 
 ass combat system. You can us walls, pillars and 
  ledges to fight your enemy. Using walls to flip behind them. Using pillars to spin around on and 
 attack your enemies and Ledges to pull tricky
  moves where you push them off. Plus in their later game they had the Quick-time combat. This added 
 a small action where you could Instantly kill
  an opponent by performing a stealthy move and slitting their throat. Any way back on task, in Prince 
 of Persia, they thought that that system needed
  a revamp... (hello anyone home) NO it didn't. So what do they replace it with, A tekken style slow 
 combat system. Where you have four main attacks
  Sword, Acrobatic (just jumping and hitting with sword) Claw and magic plus block. That was a big 
 no-no but good old Ubisoft makes another grand decision
  this falls back on them. They should have just used the gameplay elements from the Sands of Time 
 Trilogy.
  
  In this game they recreated the Following NPC. Usually in games where you have some person follow 
 you they talk the whole way, Making you just want to
  kill them. But Elika is quiet and comes in handy when you need to make extra long jumps. The Prince 
 cannot "die" in this game, as Elika will save him from 
  any danger and bring him back to the last safe point of the game. For example, if the Prince slips 
 and misses a jump, instead of falling to his death, Elika will 
  grab him, and set him back on the last stable platform that the Prince stood on. So basically just 
 like a checkpoint. If the Prince dies in combat Elika will save
  you but also allow the enemies to heal.
  
  So here is the story for the game:
  The adventure 
 begins as the Prince is caught in a fierce sandstorm while seeking his donkey. The Prince, unable 
 to see because of the sand, stumbles 
  into Elika, who requests that he follow her into a temple at the centre of the kingdom. When they 
 arrive inside the temple, Elika's father destroys the tree 
  of life, which begins to free the god Ahriman, who was imprisoned by the god Ormazd, whom the Ahura 
 worship. With the tree of life destroyed, Ahriman 
  begins plaguing the land with Corruption. 
  Don't want to say too much.... Or I will spoil you.
 
  
  All and all I say that this is a good game. (I have decided to not use numbers to rate games anymore... 
 I will not give in to conformity)
  So this is a game I would say that Prince of Persia fans should play. It will prepare you for the 
 future.
  It has a good look graphically and has an all round comforting sense. As if it was giving you cookies 
 and warm milk next to a fire, But it
  didn't do it for me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeWerePirates
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 10:34 pm PT
Review:  There is something I need to confess: I never finished Sands of Time. In fact I bought all of the 
 Sands of Time trilogy and only ever played some of Sands of Time and a very brief play with the 
 other two. I enjoyed it but I didn't have time to game for a while and when I did again I'd completely 
 forgotten what I was doing in the game so I left it. Sands of Time, widely considered one of the 
 greatest games of the last generation, just sitting on my shelf.
  
  With three Prince of Persia games sitting on the shelf unplayed why would I bother with "Prince 
 of Persia". Perhaps I was just intrigued enough by the title. Just "Prince of Persia". No number. 
 No subtitle. What could it mean?
  
  So I bit.
  
  Perhaps the choice of title is meant to get across that you don't need to have played the other 
 games. The title is meant to be inviting. But in one major way this game is the antithesis of game 
 it takes it's name from; the original Prince of Persia was hard. Games back then did tend to be 
 more punishing but even among them Prince of Persia stood out as especially difficult. Every mistake 
 is punished, every laps of concentration potentially fatal, every room some where to fail. The 
 hour ticking by means not only is it easy to make mistakes, they aren't forgotten. In contrast 
 it's 2008 game is much more willing to forgive, remarkably so in fact. Every misstep, instantly 
 forgiven, every ill judged attack slips by.
  
  I'm tempted to say the difficulty or lack of it is likely to be a divisive issue, but it's not. 
 I think it'll inspire ambivalence. On the one hand there is little challenge, moving forward doesn't 
 feel like an achievement, rather an inevitability. On the other hand it does something games as 
 a medium need to do: Be more accessible.
  
  I was genuinely grateful for the forgiving nature sometimes. The lack of difficulty is partially 
 offset by perfectly judged achievements that might make be a bit more careful and diligent in your 
 exploration.
  
  In fact some of the greatest obstacles in the game end up as annoyances. For the most part the 
 controls are silky smooth and responsive. In fact even this seems streamlined. There specific series 
 of moves to navigate and area so those are what you want to do. Jumps are lined up, wall runs sometimes 
 shift you a bit to the right height. It may seem a bit on rails but it's a refreshing change to 
 battling the controls in jumping puzzles. It's not without it's faults. First there are a couple 
 of very rare blackspots where the game will often make you do the wrong thing, these are rare so 
 not a big deal. Worse the game will queue a jump if it can't do it so if you are hanging from a 
 grip and want scale up the wall but mistakenly press the jump button twice the second press will 
 be queued as a jump so when you reach the top of the climb or a hand hold you shoot off the wall. 
 These annoyance are rare enough to not be a big problem.
  
  Combat has been focused to one on one. While the fundamental system is great it can be a pain. 
 Your parries aren't rewarded enough and your regular attacks are parried more often than not. As 
 the game progresses it can be hard land a single hit sometimes, particularly annoying a boss you 
 repeatedly face which you have to push into scenery, landing the killing attack seems mostly luck.
 
  
  The other major fault with the game is it rather repetitive. Most bosses are fought multiple times 
 and vary only in how often they negate your attacks. Even the jumping sequences get a bit samey. 
 Along with the lack of difficulty this does bring the game down a little. I wouldn't go as far 
 to say bland, perhaps dry. This is a game at it's best in short sessions.
  
  Perhaps this isn't all that different from it's namesake. The hour time limit of the original makes 
 you replay and improve over time extending what is really only a half an hour of game into something 
 that takes a fair chunk of time to beat. Similarly the experience here is extended by encouraging 
 exploration of the open world. There's maybe only around 5 hours to the game without exploring, 
 a complete first play through will likely be over the 20 hour mark.
  
  The flaws are easy to forgive because this is a game that goes out of it's way to be inviting and 
 there is enough originality to carry the game the last little bit of the way. It must have been 
 a hard choice to move in a new direction on a franchise that had been so successful and that is 
 something I find very impressive. Rather than rehash with minor changes and twists, Prince of Persia 
 draws from it's past but does something new.
  
  One last thing. UNSKIPABLE CUTSCENES! Why do games still do this?
  
  Prince of Persia is a 
 solid but slightly dry experience. It delivers appealing visuals and accessible enjoyable gameplay 
 but fails to really claim greatness. I'm hoping for a sequel which builds on Prince of Persia's 
 strengths but with that little bit extra this game is lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punk1117
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This new Prince is in my opinion, amazing. He ditches the old Prince in favor of a new, more sarcastically 
 witty one. Although the game has limited combat options and is considerably easier than the previous 
 trilogy with very few puzzles and complex areas to navigate, the simplicity is appreciated in this 
 game. It is designed to make the player care about the characters, as well as enjoy the beautiful 
 scenery and level design. Even if the levels are designed simplistically. The Prince still dazzles 
 with his uncanny ability to defy gravity, and along with his companion, Elika, he can really perform 
 some interesting feats of agility. The graphics aren't that's good though. Prince of Persia's storyline 
 and voice acting are both superb. The game goes to great lengths to make you care about the characters, 
 and with me, it succeeded after the very first land I healed. The voices are realistic, believable, 
 and fitting to the character they attempt to portray, at the game leaves you wanting for more. 
 And even though the game sometimes miscalculates distances and sends you flying of in a random 
 direction, you be happy to know that your partner, Elika, will intercede and save you from death, 
 teleporting you to the last checkpoint, saving precious time. All in all, Ubisoft did a good job 
 with this one, and I hope to see Prince of Persia 2 out some time soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShirkDawg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 12:10 am PT
Review:  I was eagerly awaiting the newest game in the Prince of Persia franchise, but I was skeptical that 
 it could live up to the amazing Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time. This game is a brilliant creation 
 that accomplishes some amazing feats, but it also has its fair share of drawbacks. Prince of Persia 
 has some controversial features, and as a result will garner varying degrees of praise and criticism. 
 While I agree with some of the faults that are often mentioned when discussing this game, they 
 weren't bad enough to take away from the incredible things this game has done. 
  
  As you may have guessed, this new Prince of Persia takes us back to a mythical Persia that is filled 
 with influences from mythology and Disney's Aladdin. The Prince featured in this game on the other 
 hand, is an entirely new creation. Ubisoft decided to throw out the Prince from the past three 
 games and start from square one. I found this Prince to be a drastic improvement from the Sands 
 of Time Prince, but I'll get to that later.
  
  I'd first like to discuss Ubisoft's artistic accomplishments with Prince of Persia. This game's 
 art style was heavily inspired by the brilliant concept art of the game, as most games are. Typically 
 before a game is made, artists will draw or paint amazing landscapes and characters that are then 
 modified via the computer. The 3D graphics that are generated usually bear little resemblance to 
 the original creation. With Prince of Persia, the artists wanted to take a different route. Instead 
 of creating realistic 3D graphics as most other games are doing, they intended to make the new 
 Prince of Persia look like a moving painting. A cell-shading technique was implemented to give 
 this quality, and the team succeeded in making this world come to life. I have never seen cell-shading 
 done so well in a video game. Eternal Sonata comes close, but the environments in that game were 
 compact; not sprawling worlds like Prince of Persia. 
  
  The enormous towers of Price of Persia are a site to behold. I have never seen sprawling environments 
 look so splendid in a video game. It is amazing how far you can see, and there isn't fog or texture 
 pop-in to hide visual blemishes. While playing, you will constantly stop and gaze at your beautiful 
 surroundings. You really feel like you're in the Persia of one's imagination. While this Persia 
 is vastly different from the historical one, it feels like an incredible fantasy world. The environments 
 are initially dark due to the Dark God Ahriman's corruption, but once you purify the lands, they 
 go from dreary, bleak environments, to bastions of color.
  
  While the game isn't bustling with life, you will encounter some fantastic looking characters and 
 monsters along the way. The Prince and the game's heroine Elika, both look incredible. Their animations 
 are fluid and realistic, and the voice acting for the two characters is excellent. You'll either 
 love or hate the sarcastic, roguish Prince; I personally loved playing as him. He constantly brought 
 much needed humor to a world that was on the brink of collapse. Elika was more on the serious side, 
 but she definitely breaks from the mold that is found too often in games, of a desperate female 
 needing to be saved. She is just as important as the Prince in this adventure. Not only does she 
 save you from dying numerous times, but her moves are also necessary to complete many battles. 
 In addition, her wit keeps the wisecracking Prince in check. 
  
  One great feature of Prince of Persia is the fact that much of the dialog is optional. To me, great 
 dialog and interesting stories are important ingredients of a great game, but some people just 
 want to play the game. That's why I like the way the dialog was implemented. There are certain 
 cutscenes you must see, but to get additional back-story on the characters, you can simply press 
 a button when prompted, and you'll be treated to some humorous, and sometimes serious dialog. This 
 is a great way to find out more about the world you're traversing, and the enemies you're up against. 
 Each of the game's characters has an interesting background, so I listened to all of the optional 
 dialog.
  
  Prince of Persia also has an amazing, ambient soundtrack. It really fits the fantasy world the 
 Prince inhabits, and reminds me of traditional Chinese and Japanese music. The music is very serene 
 and definitely enhances your gameplay experience. I felt that there could have been more songs, 
 as they're repeated too often, but at least they were great pieces, and never got annoying.
  
  I think that most people will agree on pretty much everything that was said above, except for 
 their opinions on the characters, but Prince of Persia has its fair share of faults as well. Some 
 of these faults may be enough to ruin your experience, depending on what you look for in games. 
 One of the most criticized aspects of Prince of Persia is its low level of difficulty, and I have 
 to agree. This game was clearly designed for a wide audience, which I think was a smart move on 
 Ubisoft's part, seeing as this game didn't have much hype following it. The reason this game is 
 so easy, is because much of the control is automated, and it is impossible to die. Much of the 
 gameplay of Prince of Persia consists of performing amazing acrobatic feats such as running on 
 walls and climbing up towers, while occasionally solving puzzles and fighting monsters. There are 
 often visual cues such as marks on walls, which let you know where a certain move can be performed. 
 I saw this as a good thing for the most part, since it avoids frustrations that could ensue from 
 not knowing what to do, but it definitely makes the game predictable, and leaves little to be discovered. 
 There are a few puzzles, but those can mostly be solved from trial and error. 
  
  Figuring out how to pass certain obstacles is usually simple, and mainly involves timing and keeping 
 an eye out for places you can reach. Since you don't really learn new moves over the course of 
 the game, you can access most areas from the beginning. There are a few colored plates to unlock 
 which allow you to access new areas, but those are self-explanatory once you run into them and 
 simply tap a button. Climbing steep towers, riding on slippery slopes, repelling towers, and flying 
 is all simple, due to the fact that you cannot die. Elika will save you every time you fall, so 
 you simply have to repeat a short area again. I actually liked this, as it saves you from wasting 
 time doing things over and over again, but some gamers will surely hate this feature.
  
  Another feature I was a little disappointed with was the combat. Prince of Persia: The Sands of 
 Time had combat that was similar to God of War, with the player pressing button combinations in 
 fast succession, but battles in this Prince are all about timing. Ubisoft's inspiration for this 
 battle system was gleaned from fighting games, but Prince is not nearly as complex. You simply 
 press a button to attack, a button to perform evasive maneuvers or jump, a button to block, a button 
 to throw, and a button to use Elika's magic. The strategy in this system lies in your timing, watching 
 enemy movements, and combining moves in logical ways. I found the timing difficult to get used 
 to, and never completely perfected it, so I have to say I prefer the old Prince, but I know some 
 people will love it.
  
  Before concluding, I want to briefly comment on one more feature of Prince of Persia. One of the 
 great things about this Prince is the ability to traverse the world in non-linear fashion. There 
 are certain areas you can only unlock by collecting enough orbs, but most areas can be accessed 
 in different orders, and there are multiple ways to get through an area. Eventually, you'll go 
 through all of the areas, but it is a nice feature being able to pick and choose the order in which 
 you accomplish tasks. There is one negative aspect of this system though, and that is all the back-tracking. 
 Thankfully you can teleport to areas you've purified, but it can get annoying going back through 
 areas to collect orbs. However, I didn't think it was all that bad due to the amazing scenery you 
 get to witness after an environment has been purified.
  
  Prince of Persia has accomplished amazing graphical feats, and the story and dialog are excellent 
 as well, but much of your enjoyment of the game may be dependent on whether you like the gameplay 
 features. Some gamers will be turned off by the easy nature of the game, while others will welcome 
 it for its ease of access, and the way in which it allows you to concentrate on the aesthetics 
 of the game. I recommend getting it at some point or another. It might not be worth $60 to some, 
 but the graphics, amazing acrobatics, and story make this an adventure to behold. This is one of 
 the games of 2008 that will likely be overlooked, but I recommend experiencing it at some point 
 or another.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is a brand new installment branching away from the previous trilogy. With a new 
 visual style and open world gameplay. Let's see if Prince of Persia is worthy of its original name.
 
  
  The story is brand new and branches away from the previous trilogy. You play a new character or 
 Prince, following alongside, Elika, a princess. This is basically a light vs. dark story. In the 
 beginning the Prince is returning home with a donkey full with gold, from his previous adventures 
 (unknown at this point) . He crosses paths with Elika, running away from royal gaurds and his father. 
 When encountered with Elika's father, he breaks the Tree of Light, also freeing Arhiman, the God 
 of Darkness. Arhiman has infected the surrounded area with Darkness, feeding off them to increase 
 his strength. It is your job to heal and take these lands back, weakening the dark god. The story 
 in the Sands of Time trilogy was really well done with themes such as honor or royalty, this iteration 
 has dulled down, an obvious example is the Prince himself, making modern suggestive remarks. It 
 doesn't take alot away from the experience, but it would've been great to see the themes and tone 
 from the original trilogy to be included in the next gen.
  
  Gameplay is very simple, platforming mostly consists of the A button for jumping and the Y button 
 for Elika. When jumping, the Prince will automatically do whats best, for example jumping near 
 a wall will automatically trigger a wall run, when in previous installments you had hold a trigger 
 button for the duration of the wall run. In Addition to platforming, the B button extends your 
 animation, for example, there are rings located on a wall, you start a wall run, then by pressing 
 B the Prince will extended his animation to use the ring to swing to the adjacent side. Elika is 
 mainly used for double jumping, its all common sense when it comes to when to use it, but the world 
 will turn shades of gray to note when to double jump.
  Combat is very impressive, and hopefully will be included in other games, but otherwise should 
 not be overused like the Gears cover system. X button is sword strikes, B button is grabs, A is 
 dash/jump, and Y is Elika. What makes the combat very impressive is the camera work, with different 
 camera angles and slow mo that makes the experience theatrical. You can use all the face buttons 
 to pull off some def defying moves. Sometimes real time events appear, with the icon of a controller 
 button appearing that breaks that theatrical feel, also enemies will have repeating animations.
 
  
  In the previous trilogy and other action adventure games, they mostly follow a single path, but 
 in this case, you can travel wherever you like, healing which land you want whenever you like. 
 More areas are unlocked as you gain more powers, you gain these powers by collecting Light Seeds, 
 they only appear, scattered, in an area after it has been healed. When you collect a sufficient 
 amount of Seeds, you can unlock new of 4 abilities. These abilities are triggered from pads located 
 in a level. Two of which makes wild leaps, one allows you to defy gravity and walk on walls and 
 the roof, and one makes you fly.
  
  Graphics are surprisingly stunning, my first impression was "Oh, cell shaded graphics, they're 
 taking the cheap/easy way out", But actually it's partially true, what made me turn my head was 
 the vibrant colors, lots of objects on screen such as butterflies and grass, and the lighting makes 
 for some great contrast. 
  Draw distance is excellent, and of course the animations are the best in the business. Because 
 it is cell shaded, character models are lacking round edges and may look too blocky, also lip syncing 
 is very poor.
  
  Audio is excellent, the music being a standout. Having different music pieces for both light and 
 dark levels. Also environmental sounds such as animals and structures sound very crisp. Voice overs 
 are good enough for the task, nothing outstanding.
  
  The game is very very easy, you jumped into an endless ditch? Don't worry, Elika will save you 
 every single time. This masks it's checkpoint system, but at least there's no loading after everytime 
 you die. It's fast and less annoying.
  
  On a side note I should add about the ending, I'm not going to spoil it, and although it is very 
 well directed/executed, I just question "Why!?"
  
  Prince of Persia is partially worthy of it's original name, the open world gameplay really gives 
 you freedom on how you want to play, the combat system is very stylish and will be hard to forget. 
 The game is very accessible, but too easy with no option to increase difficulty. Prince of Persia 
 is a definite own for anyone who is into great single player experiences, even though it is a short 
 game, every minute is worth it. With the ending in mind, you can expect a sequel, and I can't wait 
 for what Ubisoft will do next.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  The story of "Prince of Persia" would now seem to be as old as the medium itself. Born out of the 
 brilliant mind of Jordan Mechner, the original masterpiece ended up serving as the proud pillar 
 for a whole genre, probably even for an entire current of videogames. Since then, the "Prince of 
 Persia" name has become associated with the best and worst the interactive craft can offer. When 
 it was announced that an entirely new Prince would appear, instead of an attempt at fixing the 
 broken "Sands of Time" formula, there was hope it could reinvent the genre as its notorious forebears 
 did. Sadly, like its main character, the new "Prince of Persia" is not of royal descent, but a 
 mere pauper.
  
  In an attempt at recapturing the elegance of Mechner's original masterpiece, while simultaneously 
 framing it in the light of modern design philosophies, the new Prince's gameplay presents itself 
 as an exercise of eloquent simplicity. Flying above the abyss, running through walls, sword fighting 
 with enemies - what was once a task of deft skill and trying patience (which matched the on-screen 
 action) is now a matter of simple chaining of rhythmic actions. For each action to ensue, a button 
 must be pressed as the associated visual cue demands it: see a cliff, jump button; see a flashing 
 light, double jump button; a monster attacks with magic, counterattack with magic attack button, 
 and so on. Level progress becomes a succession of automated movements, that without the need for 
 much reflection or observation, lead the Prince from one point to the next. Because of that, complex, 
 three dimensional scenarios are rendered into spatially twisted, yet linearly explorable corridors, 
 and fights are molded into simple mini-games of action-reaction. The end experience is that of 
 a slow stream of steps to which you must mindlessly oblige, in QTE style, as the prince shows off 
 his flurry of incredibly animated acrobatic movements and attacks. And because the game does not 
 let you die in any way (you simply restart from a very near checkpoint) , your actions are seldom 
 interrupted from that particular flow. In the rare instances that "Prince of Persia" presents challenge, 
 it does it in the most disastrous of ways (like "Assassin's Creed") , by introducing a pseudo-non 
 linear game structure that forces you to traverse levels several times, and an obligatory fetch 
 quest that mandates you to squander levels in search of hundreds of flashy orbs (hardly original) .
 
  
  The shun of challenge oriented gameplay, and the simplification of the gameplay dimension, don't 
 stand as ill-choices by themselves. However, having gameplay reduced to that of a series of mind 
 numbing actions should invite to a greater, more dense aesthetic experience, that could fill in 
 the void left by the extreme simplicity of the interactive counterpart; many games have shown ways 
 on how this type of experience can be pulled off with extraordinary results ("flOw", for instance) . 
 But for that to be achieved, the game must have a strong artistic identity, one that translates 
 some sort of emotional experience that transcends gameplay - something which the new Prince unfortunately 
 lacks. Dazzled by the daunting beauty of aesthetic masterpieces such as "ICO", "Shadow of the Colossus" 
 or "kami", the new "Prince of Persia" creates a world that borrows many of these games' elements: 
 the use of a white-laden princess as companion; the dreamy landscape; the healing of the land, 
 bringing color and nature to darkness and corruption, etc. I have already discussed how these exercises 
 of malformed inspiration can bring about poor results (the recent "Dead Space", for example) , and 
 the Prince represents another bad example of this practice. Firstly, because it ends up creating 
 a world, that despite gorgeous, bares no concrete relationship either with the series' background 
 (Persia) , or with its many sources of inspiration - it's just a mishmash of aesthetic details molded 
 into soulless pretty images. Secondly, because the game's authors did not translate any of the 
 artistic potential of their sources into the game itself - most of the gameplay sections develop 
 in dull-colored corridors and walls that do not show off the intrinsic graphical detail of the 
 art design. There are some stunning vistas (which the screen-shots obviously focus on) , but these 
 aren't contemplated by the player's eye during a significant majority of the game.
  
  The narrative, instead of adding some compensatory value to the game, further mars the experience. 
 Not only are its characters simplistic and cartoon-y, as their dialogues are filled with cheesy 
 jokes that seem straight out of some romantic comedy featuring Matthew McConaughey, as opposed 
 to a mystic tale about Persia (the game is called "Prince of Persia", is it not?) . When the game 
 does opt for drama it does so by completely ripping-off "Shadow of the Colossus", and not in a 
 good way. And because game progress is pseudo non-linear, there's an absurd amount of filler that 
 doesn't go anywhere with the plot until the very end of the game. In fact, for all intents and 
 purposes, there are only two plot points: beginning and end (someone clearly missed the writing 
 class when they got to the "middle" part) .
  
  The narrative falling flat and the aesthetic being mostly derivative (even if filled with eye-candy) , 
 only invites more criticism to the subtle nature of the gameplay dimension. Because it does not 
 serve as a background for some sort of emotional journey, the gameplay reduces the experience to 
 an agonizing series of numbing actions, throughout numerous and repetitive levels, occasionally 
 interrupted by a childish cutscene or a lush scenery for you to gaze upon. Though there is some 
 commending to be done to the guys at Ubisoft, for at least trying to devise a new game based on 
 a decade old franchise, the fact is that in the end, they produced a completely hollow and forgettable 
 videogame. More so, one that bares the same name as one of the most important games ever designed 
 which should get people thinking that maybe a game named "Prince of Persia" should at least try 
 to live up to the royal lineage of Mechner's absolute masterpiece. But it doesn't, and instead 
 of a Prince we got a thief disguised in noble garments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7guns
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Did enjoy the game, that much I can say. Its really easy but still not in a disappointing manner. 
 The story is pretty average but good and the characters are intriguing. I tend to get bored very 
 easily but this game did let me progress fast enough to escape boredom.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, this game feels like a really long date, awkward at first. That's right! 
 The story goes like this: the prince meets a lovely young princess escaping from some guards and 
 he decides to chases her down! I couldn't help but wonder why he did that. Was it the only choice? 
 Did he just want to ask her out? Did he just want to give her a hand in dealing with the guards? 
 OR is the sole purpose was to just figure out why in the world was the princess bare-footed? (that's 
 right people) By choice? Soon after, the prince met Elika's father, not exactly what should happen 
 on first date, and then story starts to get intriguing!
  
  Anyway, that's how the story begins.
  
  One thing I have to mention is that everything looks 
 absolutely beautiful and the game encourages you to witness all the hard work the developers have 
 put in to this game. I guess that's why they put the "Titanic View" achievement in it!
  
  The combat is easy, simple as that. No new moves! No new weapons. But they managed to keep me from 
 getting bored by introducing far less enemies I've ever seen in game of this genre. They kept combat 
 rare enough to not let the gamers get bored. Thanks to cheap intelligence! Frankly the combat is 
 pretty easy... really easy!
  
  It seems to me the ending did fall short of my expectation, But don't get me wrong! It's still 
 good enough. From time to time you might ask yourself, why is the prince doing all these? That's 
 because the game doesn't establish any connection between the prince and his past. All you can 
 pick up are little bits and pieces to form a very faint idea of what the future installment's story 
 might be like, because, clearly the biggest mystery of this game is around the prince, or at least 
 it should be, in my opinion... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  When I first played Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time, I was awe-struck. I had gone through the 
 game in about ten hours, and not even a minute had gone by where I wasn't thrilled. Either there 
 was a cool move that looked and played awesome or there was an epic puzzle design, or there was 
 an action packed exciting cutscene or all of the above. 
  
  Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time was a dream game. Ubisoft had done wonders with the dead franchise 
 and turned it into one of the most thrilling experiences ever. The same goes for Warrior Within 
 and The Two Thrones. 
  
  Prince of Persia had taken a direction which was very God of War-ish (or vice versa) , and had turned 
 into one of the most hardcore franchises ever. After the massive success of this ultra-violent 
 formula, Ubi wouldnt want to change the track. At least that was what we thought. 
  
  This time around, Ubisoft brings us a completely different adventure. If you are used to the maddeningly 
 insane platforming sections of The Sands trilogy, or the highly gruesome combat that we had come 
 to love by the time The Two Thrones had come out or the ultra-heroic Prince of the previous trilogy, 
 then change your view about Prince of Persia. 
  
  The only thing that connects this game to the other Prince of Persia games is the name. Nothing 
 else- when I say nothing, I mean NOTHING AT ALL- is similar. Neither is the story as fast paced, 
 neither is the presentation as action packed, neither is the combat as gruesome and violent, neither 
 are the platforming sections insanely tough, neither is the new Prince as heroic (he's a beggar- 
 literally) , and neither are the graphics fully blown 3D graphics you were used to till now. 
  
  Forget everything you know about Prince of Persia. Everything. Play this game as if you're 
 playing a Prince of Persia game for the first time. Only then will you understand the beauty of 
 this game. 
  
  Ubisoft has given us an adventure so epic, so beautiful that many masterpieces we have come to 
 love will seem superficial and pathetic. 
  
  But our new hero isn't exactly as charming as the older Prince was, but rather a wisecracking nomad 
 interested only in his donkey who is named Farah and the riches she apparently carries. It is, quiet 
 a few times, hinted that the new Prince has a royal status, but there isn't any elaboration, though 
 his companion Elika is clearly a princess, and as the game progresses, you'll become much more 
 invested in her past than the Prince's. Together, they seek to imprison the evil god Ahriman, who 
 has been inexplicably set free by Elika's own father. To do so, they must restore a series of fertile 
 grounds to their former fecund glory, thereby banishing the inky black corruption that has enveloped 
 the land.
  
  The new Prince Of Persia introduces a great new gameplay engine. An engine so spectacular yet easy 
 that its a great surprise that no other developer had thought about it before. To each type of 
 move, a certain button has been dedicated. One for combat moves, one for acrobatics, one for gauntlet, 
 one for Elika's magic. Everytime you press one of these buttons, the game's intuitiveness forces 
 it to perform the move that you need to perform, depending upon the situation. or example, the 
 acrobatic button might be used to jump while running if there's a huge gap in front of you and 
 that same button might be used to climb walls. Just press the button, and leave the rest to the 
 game which is far more intuitive than most of the games you've played till now. 
  
  In this game, you cannot die. When you fall into a pit, Elika grabs you by the wrist and takes 
 you to a place of safety, which is the last checkpoint. There is a checkpoint in this game in almost 
 every room, so you needn't worry about playing through a lot of stuff again. Which means, there 
 is no penalty if you fall into a pit and the words, "Game Over" will never flash across your screen 
 throughout this game. There is no need for you to save before a tough section is this game (which 
 are less in number) and you dont even need to worry about getting from one point to the other- 
 Elika can always do a magic trick and you'll find yourself at your destination in no time. Combined 
 with simple platforming controls that require a minimum of button presses, these facets make Prince 
 of Persia one of the easiest games you'll play all year. 
  
  Yes. Prince of Persia IS one of the easiest games I have ever played. And the reasons have already 
 been told to you. You never die in this game. Elika is useful and can do everything and can solve 
 any of your problems in no time at all. There is a checkpoint in almost every other room. And you 
 have to simply press a single button to perform a move. No combo or button mashing is required. 
 
  
  The sound, sound effects, presentation and story of this game are simply spectacular. They are 
 done so brilliantly that... well, I can't describe it in words. Its just beautiful and makes this 
 game the best Prince of Persia game ever.
  
  Ultimately, this game is a masterpiece, from every aspect. No gamer, be it hardcore or casual, 
 should miss it. For newcomers, this is a pleasant breeze. For the hardcore fans of Prince of Persia, 
 it's still a pleasant breeze, but only if you let go of what you think of the series. Go and buy 
 this game NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandleheim
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  What else I can say that others have not? I expected the new animation style to take away from 
 the Prince of Persia series that I enjoyment immensely but was pleasantly surprised by the fluid 
 motion and detail. The visuals are amazing, and the fight sequences are very cinematic and filled 
 with tension. I couldn't wait to get home from work to play the game and see where the Prince and 
 his companion would end up next. The musical score played in my head all day until I was able to 
 fire it up in the evening. This current gen version was definitely easier to play than the original 
 Sands of Time triology, but it did not take away from the overall enjoyment of the game. The characters 
 play well off each other, although some of the dialog was definitely a bit cheesy. Cheesiness aside, 
 I definitely recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of first Xbox series or likes platforming 
 (ie. Assassin's Creed) . I can't wait for the next one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 5:43 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is most certainly one of the great classic franchises. In it's heyday it was the 
 pinnacle of 2D platforming and the brain child of just one man, the ingenious Jordan Mechner. These 
 days though, hundreds of people are working on the PoP games, but Mechner is still there to lend 
 a guiding hand.
  
  The new Prince of Persia attempts to reinvent a franchise which actually has already gone through 
 this process 3 times before. First with the abysmal Prince of Persia 3D, then with the almost perfect 
 Sands of Time and finally with that game's much darker (and lack-lustre) sequels Warrior Within 
 and The Two Thrones.
  
  The current-gen Prince bears more resemblance to a reluctant anti-hero like Uncharted's Nathan 
 Drake (who shares a voice-actor with the Prince) or Star Wars' Han Solo, but the setting and consummate 
 flowing platforming will instantly strike a chord with everyone who fondly remembers Sands of Time. 
 However, though you may see familiarities in the setting you certainly won't with the style in 
 which it has been rendered. The graphics in PoP are beautiful, though in an entirely different 
 way to SoT. Ubi Soft's art team have designed beautifully rendered cell-shaded foregrounds, with 
 stunningly animated hand-drawn backgrounds in the distance. The main characters are actually the 
 most realistic element of the design, but really stand out with their sharp black outline. Players 
 who register their email address with Ubi Soft can even add to their cast of characters by downloading 
 a skin based on Altair from Assassin's Creed. Even better than that, if you pre-ordered a special 
 edition (at least in Europe) you get access to SoT skins for the Prince and his new female companion.
 
  
  Early in the game you lose your gold-laden donkey (affectionately named Farah, in a nod to SoT) 
 and stumble across the Princess Elika in the desert. Elika provides the crux of the game's story 
 in which her father, for reasons I won't spoil, has unleashed a dark god's power on the land. You 
 must travel with Elika to heal "fertile grounds" in the world in order to make sure the dark god 
 remains trapped in the magical prison designed by her ancestors. She's a feisty character and definitely 
 a great tonic to the constantly complaining and quipping Prince
  
  Elika also provides most of the game's intriguing mechanics. Should you fall when platforming she 
 will use her magic to lift you from whatever pit you have managed to drop down. In a way this means 
 that you can't die, but really its a very clever way of skipping the tedium of having to reload 
 every time you make a mistake. The platforming itself is the usual mix of jumping, wall-running, 
 pole-swinging and ledge-catching, but Elika also provides a new double-jump move by catching you 
 mid-jump (when you press Y) and throwing you a few extra feet.
  
  She also provides protection and strategy in the game's combat. Fighting, as it seems in every 
 title in the series, is the weaker element of the game. In PoP you only fight enemies one at a 
 time but the battles are more strategic and drawn out than SoT's. A does aerial moves, B does throws, 
 X sword attacks and Y uses Elika's magic. Combing these together can create some great looking 
 and very satisfying combos, but its the enemy behaviour that spoils the combat. The AI often "changes 
 state" meaning that only certain attacks will harm them. You are supposed to tell what state they 
 are in by subtle changes in colour and animation but these are often poorly communicated to the 
 player. They also initate infuriating QTEs far too regularly. Other QTE's occur when you're low 
 on health - fail them and Elika will dive in magically to save you, but the enemy instantly regains 
 often over a third of their health back, which is incredibly annoying in the long boss fights.
 
  
  Thankfully the beauty of the open-world and the exploration of its various areas and puzzles is 
 much more entertaining. When the platforming flows it is a wonderful experience. Healing the fertile 
 grounds after you've solved puzzles and tricky platform sequences to reach them is very satisfying. 
 Unfortunately though, after you've healed a fertile ground the game comes over all "Banjo Kazooie." 
 
  
  That's right - its time to block the player's progress by forcing them to collect a bunch of little 
 objects before they move on. The "little objects" in this case are called light seeds and you need 
 them to access abilities that will allow you to reach new areas of the map. These range from running 
 vertically up certain walls or straight-up flying. The sections that use these abilities are quite 
 enjoyable. Of the 4 you gain, 2 enable different styles of what is basically a point-to-point jump, 
 which is fine, and the vertical running is kind of fun too. Flying though is very, very loose. 
 You're set on a pre-determined path and have to dodge obstacles with the left stick. Sometimes 
 its quite epic with all sorts of buildings collapsing around you as you dodge them. Most of the 
 time though these sections last too long and as soon as you brush against an obstacle you're back 
 to the start of the flight again.
  
  Overall Prince of Persia is a fine platform-adventure that anyone with fond memories of Sands of 
 Time will enjoy. If you can see past the clunky combat and out-dated object collection then you'll 
 experience a visual feast of a game that, although easy, will entertain you from beginning to end.
 
  
  The good:
  - Beautiful stand-out visuals
  - The same flowing platform gameplay you've come to love
  - An immersive (if linear) open-world
 
  
  The bad:
  - Long fights with clumsy combat mechanics
  - Out-dated item collection necessary to progress in the story
  - Not as challenging as you might 
 expect for a PoP game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makhlouta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  As easy as this game was i really don't' care this is my favorite game on all platforms and since 
 the beginning of gaming history ( expect for legend of zelda OOT and majoras mask) . 
  Seriously the way the gaem was made.. the right depth of the dialogue not too much but satisfying 
 ( since there' s gona be a sequel u shouldn't knwo everything) , the amazingly creative gaem play 
 , the way you are launched right in the middle of the battle is jsut breathtaking . Of course some 
 might feel that the battles get repetitive but they are so beautiful that u look forward to the 
 next battle especially vs the corrupted! 
  the storyline is really nice especially the end i mean.. everything was jsut perfect ( especially 
 the graphics) only the gaem was too easy.. but maybe it's because you don't really die in the game.. and 
 that's what's really great.. instead of having the usual : game over and ur'e dead or smthg like 
 that.. eliak jsut comes and saves u and u stil ahve to do everything from the last "checkpoint" 
 ( no checkpoints in the game) which is a very innovative way of making the game
  really amazing job can't wait for the sequel to follow the story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinkyfish
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:47 am PT
Review:  I'm going to try to make this review as clear as possible, so every point will be rated from 1-5 
 [1=Abysmal, 2=Poor, 3=Average, 4=Good, 5=Wow, did that really just happen?] I've also done my best 
 to avoid any spoilers, if anyone has any issues with the content then please PM me and I'll have 
 it corrected. Cheers!
  
  Audio: 3/5
  The audio in the game is quite well done overall; the background music is pleasant and never distracts 
 you from the task at hand. Some of the sound effects (e. g. the birds chirping) get a little repetitive 
 though. I would have given this a score of 4/5 had it not been for the voice acting of the Prince, 
 who sports a heavy American accent. This doesn't bother me in most games, but I found it totally 
 inappropriate in PoP considering the setting.
  
  Graphics: 4/5
  I think it's pretty safe to say that Prince of Persia looks absolutely stunning in all its cell-shaded 
 glory. There were more than a few occasions when I found myself standing on a ledge, towering above 
 the ruins of a once beautiful city, just staring at the view. The contrast between the healed and 
 corrupted regions is amazing, and you get a real sense of pride and accomplishment as you watch 
 the grey and black corruption change to rich greens of the grass, yellows of the sand and orange 
 of the rocks. The only reason the graphics didn't get the full 5/5 is because some levels -within 
 the temple mainly- have areas where it's difficult to distinguish wall from sky, leading to a few 
 accidental jumps into midair (or conversely running into walls- whoops!) .
  
  Characters: 4/5
  I'll be honest, the minute the Prince opened his mouth I felt an instant dislike 
 for him. He was loud, obnoxious and very, very full of himself. Fortunately as the story went on 
 I warmed to him considerably, and later on he does actually come out with a few witty lines that 
 managed to make me chuckle. Elika is also an interesting character, with a few interesting secrets 
 to uncover. 
  
  Story: 3/5
  The story in PoP isn't bad actually, it serves its purpose by giving you a reason to leap around 
 its landscapes, dodging gooey black blobs, until you eventually reach the fertile ground and return 
 the colour to the land. Unfortunately, the method employed to deliver the story isn't great, there 
 are very few cutscenes (compared to the average game) so the majority of the story is revealed 
 in small disjointed chunks by pressing LB (Left Bumper) to talk to Elika. It's understandable why 
 they did this, to avoid breaking the 'flow' of the game by making the player sit inactive for long 
 periods of time but when the player does press LB I think it's safe to assume that they do want 
 to take a minute out to find out a little more about the story, so a cutscene would have been more 
 appropriate here than the couple of sentences the game actually delivers. This makes the process 
 of extracting the story a bit like pulling teeth, just sitting waiting for the Prince to finish 
 his sentence so you can press LB again to here the next morsel of story. This method of delivering 
 small, broken chunks of information results in some confusion- I finished the story still not entirely 
 sure who or what an Auhra was...
  
  Combat: 1/5
  Ah combat, the game's major weakness. Combat in PoP mainly involves clinging to RT (Right Trigger) 
 to defend against the enemy's onslaught of attacks, hoping that in the next 10 minutes or so they 
 might actually pause for a second to allow you to frantically stab at the X-button to make the 
 Prince swing his sword... only to be deflected. Lather, rinse, repeat. This painfully unbalanced 
 combat can, however, be quite easily broken by using Elika's magic attack- which conveniently cannot 
 be blocked. Once you've discovered this the combat becomes more along the lines of: block for 10 
 minutes, then Y, Y, Y. Using this technique it's possible to grind down almost all the main bosses 
 health over time. Until they start changing form that is... Once an enemy is in a different form 
 they can only be damaged by one of either your sword or gauntlet, or Elika's magic attack, therefore 
 forcing you to use the other, less effective attacks. Not exactly what I'd call fun. There is also 
 one boss who is so broken (I won't give away any details here, don't worry) that I actually managed 
 to defeat him by running around him in circles for about 5 minutes. I have no idea if that's what 
 I was supposed to do but it worked so it'll do.
  
  Level Design: 4/5
  While there are a couple of levels which instil a sense of dj-vu due to their similar design 
 (particularly some of the towers) , generally most levels are unique enough to present a challenge 
 and not become repetitive. There is an element of auto-correction present in some of your jumps 
 (sometimes visibly so) which can be a little off putting at times when you begin to wonder if you're 
 having any effect at all but the game quickly dispels this thought by letting you plummet to your 
 doom because you weren't paying attention and forgot to press B. Overall, the levels are well designed 
 and most of the puzzles should manage to keep you on your toes.
  
  Checkpoint System: 5/5
  Excellent, fantastic, almost no criticism here :) Basically almost every 
 horizontal surface (although not beams) in the game acts as a checkpoint that you will be returned 
 to, should you accidentally press the wrong button and send the Prince hurtling to his doom. And, 
 trust me, that will happen. A lot. This is great at preserving the flow of the game as you just 
 pick up a few metres back from where you left off and start again. There are a few situations (mainly 
 when using the plates) where there is an uncomfortably long wait between 'safe spots' but generally 
 you'll never slam the controller down in frustration as the Prince decides to jump sideways off 
 a ledge instead of running up the wall (or vice versa) and you're returned to a point that you 
 left 15 minutes earlier.
  
  The Ending: 3/5
  Don't worry I'm not going to spoil it for you I won't say what happens! Overall I felt that one 
 part of the ending I'd seen coming from very, very early on in the game and the other part was 
 just plain frustrating! It does lend itself very nicely to a sequel though.
  
  Replay Value: 2/5
  Once you've done it once there's very little reason to go back and do it again 
 unless your aiming for the achievements (or trophies for all you PS3 owners) which require you 
 to complete the game in under 12 hours or with less than 100 deaths. Most of the levels can be 
 quite relaxing though, so you might return to have another run through if you need some time to 
 sit and marvel at the beautiful scenery.
  
  Achievement Junkie: 4/5
  This section is for all the achievement junkies out there who need their regular fix of gamerpoints. 
 PoP ranks quite highly on the achievement junkie rating because it begins by literally throwing 
 achievements at you (I counted 8 in the 1st 30 minutes of play) . Once you've got into the game 
 the flow slows down a little but the game can be completed in a couple of days (less depending 
 on how much time you spend playing, obviously) and I managed to get 750G really easily. The remainder 
 of the achievements are a little more difficult to get but if you've got a little more time to 
 invest you should get then without too much effort.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I played the last 3 prince of persia game, actually they are good but -except for this one- they 
 are friggin' hard and confusing! That's why I'm so happy that the new Prince of Persia is sooo 
 easy!
  
  Prince of Persia follow the new story of the Prince -maybe a new prince too cause he have a really 
 different attitude- the story start when he struggle to survive from the storm. The Prince stuck 
 on a country where a Darkness God, Ahriman try to escape from his prison and poisoned the country. 
 Together with the Princess of the country, Elika -which have a magical power of the lightning God- 
 , The Prince try to take back the country back and get the hell out of that place. Classic story, 
 but it still fun to follow. Nice voice casting and the availability of subtitle on the game make 
 us easier to follow the story.
  
  The gameplay give us a new way to play platformer game, the idea of double team is obvious but 
 the 'not-die' idea is great! Elika as your partner is a great helper! everytime the prince fall 
 or beaten, Elika will always there to safe you with her power. With that system, we don't have 
 any loading screen too, GREAT IDEA! Not just that, Elika can show the Prince the way to their objectives 
 so... lost no more! The battle mechanism is easy too, The Prince and Elika will never fight against 
 more than one enemy, we can combine sword, acrobatic, gaunlet -The Prince's new weapon on his left 
 arm- , and Elika's magic attack to defeat the enemy. Prince of Persia is a sandbox game which consist 
 of 5 worlds which poisoned by the corruption, darkness power of Ahriman, our mission is to travel 
 around the country and clear it from the darkness power of Ahriman. there are some places that 
 need a special power plate to open, to get the power plate we need to collect the glowing orbs 
 scattered on the area which we have cleared. 
  
  The graphics is outstanding! the cell shading animation is extremely good! the best so far in gaming 
 history! Bright and colorfull environment, great lightning effect, everything just perfect! I love 
 the dynamic movement of the prince and Elika, the mocap actor sure have done a brilliant job!
 
  
  The sound of the game is standard, but i like the scores, really good!
  
  So, the game is really fun, awesome acrobatic movement and great visualisation! The story is just 
 begun so i'll wait for the second! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Its safe to say Ubisoft's Montreal studio has been doing well at producing playable product for 
 the last few years. With various systems under it's belt and rocking every genre category possible, 
 fans and gamers alike should have little to complain about.
  Insert my negative vibe -- being a fan since they first hit the scene with games like Splinter 
 Cell, the studio always seems to offer something familiar, but with it's own twists. Which seems 
 to be their running theme that lead to smash hits like Assassins Creed and allowed them to venture 
 backwards without criticism. Pause and focus on the revamped adventures of Prince of Persia. Artistically 
 sound, wonderfully presented, and very playable. Which is not entirely a bad thing; but as a fan 
 I feel the urge to call foul as Ubisoft quietly slides a stinky one under the radar and no matter 
 how pretty it appears... it's not Princely nor Persian.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  With hardly any introduction to the main character, it's common to assume him as the mysterious 
 bad @ss. Instead he's quickly profiled as a simple minded, talkative thief, lost in a sandstorm 
 searching for his donkey. Kind of lame.
  From here, you're jolted into a story that could have really afforded some background that basically 
 drops a pretty lady into your arms. She runs off and you follow which begins your crash course 
 in Persian pursuit tactics. For anyone who has never played an adventure game much less A Prince 
 of Persia title, the controls are up front and easy to learn. Attack with sword, jump, grab, navigate, 
 and block. The speed in how fast you strike is based on timing and combos can be linked using all 
 face buttons in rhythm.
  
  After chasing down the running lady she partners up with you and discovers her ability to wield 
 magic. And so the adventure really begins!
  
  From here, you are now privileged to question the mystery woman named Elika, every step of the 
 way. Beyond pestering her for story tid-bits, she uses her magic to further your mobility with 
 super jumps, navigation, and combat. Extending combos and reaching difficult locations becomes 
 second nature now that you have this lovely lady at your side. Yet, her magic also ensures that 
 you never die on her watch.
  At first, this seems like a wonderful way to remedy any botched maneuver, which does happen more 
 often than preferred. Instead you fall into a cushion of security that takes away nearly all possible 
 threats. Even worse, mid-way through the game you realize the only real threat is your inability 
 to land a jump. Master the Elika assist and assimilate the handful of baddies you'll face from 
 start to finish and the game is pretty much a cake walk.
  
  One area of major interest that could have made the overall game intense rather than robotic was 
 combat. When you face random shadow creatures that spawn, the basic strategy is to pummel them 
 into a wall or over some ledge. Since the game runs heavily off of context sensitive situations, 
 all thats required of you is positioning.
  Enter the boss battles carelessly, which do increase in difficulty, and your sure to face moments 
 of frustration. Submit to robotic repetition and you should be fine. The transitions between adventuring 
 and fighting is automatic and the lack of death kind of gives way to god-like gaming tendencies 
 -- until you face off against the final boss, not many things make you feel like a small man with 
 an over-sized sword. Once again, lame.
  
  VISUALS
  At first glance, this new take on Prince of Persia really helps accentuate a world full of magic 
 and myth. Even with a cast of characters who are easy to forget, the world and level design are 
 the real stars here.
  Ubisoft has been known to design some very intricate environments that usually offer hours of stream-lined 
 exploration with great ease. This is not a easy feat for game developers. Yet Ubisoft continues 
 to max out with talented artist who not only create believable places from nothing, but they approach 
 this new world with an art style that simply... fits.
  Once the gawking stops, its the real fine details such as top-notch animation that keeps this show 
 going without stutter. If you maneuver fluently, the smooth transitions between running, jumping, 
 swinging and cooperatively working with your partner Elika is some what exhilarating. And it looks 
 great too!
  
  AUDIO
  Taking place in a magical world, music is covered well by offering a blend of Aladin and LotR. 
 During calm moments of the game while you quietly explore the music is soft and nearly ambient. 
 When action picks up in pace the tunes match in epic fashion.
  Since a majority of the story unfolds through dialog, you get a fair amount of speech from the 
 2 main characters. Besides Elika sharing some snide remark every time she saves you from near death, 
 you have full control over how much you converse with her. There is the occasional exchange before 
 or after boss battles, yet everything else is pretty laid back.
  Except for the main hero who is simply nameless. The guy they casted for his voice is not only 
 a terrible fit to his in-game character, but he talks WAY too much. The mysterious silent type 
 is played out, that I can understand... but nothing excuses the foolishness displayed in casting 
 a guy better suited for a cartoon character. 
  
  EXTRAS
  Within the first hour of playing this new take on Prince of Persia, I'm pretty sure you can scoop 
 up nearly 200+ points in achievements. Playing the game from start to finish can net you well over 
 600 points for simple tasks such as taking instructions and defeating bosses.
  Anyone shooting for extra glory can easily tackle speed runs, secret locations, object fetching, 
 and game completion within a certain time and so forth. Once you've conquered a majority of the 
 achievements and got your fill of the story, there isn't much left to soak up. Being a game that 
 came from the same people who brought us the earlier remakes of Prince of Persia: Sands of Time 
 and Assassins Creed, you can change your main characters skin/looks. Nothing dramatic in the moves 
 or skill sets, but nice eye-candy none the less.
  
  OVERALL
  Choosing a terrible voice actor for the main character is not at the top my gripes list. Rating 
 a mature oriented story for teens with gameplay geared for children doesn't bother me all that 
 much either. What gets me extremely upset about this new Prince of Persia title is it could have 
 easily been its own franchise!
  What Ubisoft is telling me as a gamer is they fear expansion. With other big name companies braving 
 the stern industry with unknown characters and unseen worlds and actually selling and winning praise; 
 its hard to wrap my head around one of the biggest publisher/developers in the world reusing a 
 franchise name for something that is similar, but entirely different from Prince of Persia. Everything 
 from the look and the gameplay allowed this amazingly beautiful title to be its own rich adventure. 
 Calling it the "new" Prince of Persia is robbery! 
  I really did enjoy the game and eagerly look forward to where the franchise will go from here. 
 All that I ask of Ubisoft and gaming developers across the board is if someone is willing to fork 
 over money for your creations... be confident in how genuine your creations really are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InjuredNoodle
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Who in there right mind actually likes looking for things in a video game. I can understand if 
 it's an RPG but not a title like Prince of Persia.
  Apparently, Ubisoft seems to think that gamers actually like to have to collect a certain amount 
 of seeds or flags or whatever. Its what they do best and it really is stupid. The only excuse Ubisoft 
 can make is that looking for seeds increases the playing time. And it gets very boring very fast. 
 
  The first hour or so is actually pretty good. After that though the game goes absolutely nowhere. 
 Remember in Assassin's Creed how every mission is EXACTLY THE SAME? Well you will be disappointed 
 because that's exactly what they do to Prince of Persia. 
  I couldn't even finish this boring filth because it was so repetitive. Same bosses even. Sometimes 
 Elika cannot even tell you where you need to go. It's as if she spaces out and doesn't know what 
 to do.
  I have come to the conclusion that Ubisoft can only make good Splinter Cell and Rainbow Six games 
 and even those aren't too appealing anymore.
  Stay far away from this game. I wouldn't even rent it if I were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:57 am PT
Review:  From the get go this game throughs you into the story right off the bat. The game starts out with 
 the prince calling his donkeys name when he is through into helping this girl escape from her persuers, 
 I think that the story is quite a bit better than the sands of Time. while the game is more family 
 based because it does not have the M rating that is what made me not like the sands of time series. 
 The game is really no different than the other Prince of Persia games expect you do not fight a 
 whole lot of enemies and you still jump around from platform to platform trying to get to you destination. 
 When you fall instead of dieing you or reversing time using the sands you are saved by a girl. 
 While most will think that the game is not as good as the other prince of persia's I have not problem 
 for one I like the prince in this one much better he is a better surfaced character and has a better 
 personality than the other prince. Definelty a must buy game, hope to see more prince of Persia 
 games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAW14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Prince Of Persia is a game that you guys would remember as in the very olden days fighting against 
 hordes of body guards and armies of evil tiger type animals. You people who don't like Prince Of 
 Persia's fear no more because this does not feel or look like a Prince Of Persia this feels like 
 like a whole new game of it's own and the cell graphics make you think and forget what the name 
 of the game your playing because it is completely different. In this game you will play you will 
 as the prince but nothing about him is the same except you do some of the same moves in it. Like 
 you will run on walls and jump from wall to wall and hang on chains and stuff like that. But one 
 of the main differences you will notice fairly quick is that you have a partner or sidekick as 
 some people might call it. Also that the fighting in this game is changed in every single way for 
 instance you will only be fighting one person at a time. Another is that you do have special moves 
 like that will make you kill your enemies faster that normally and you only have one weapon and 
 the fighting is more of a movie it is easy but you just can't wait to get to the next one because 
 fighting is extremely fun and you want to try out different combos and see what you can do. So 
 thank you for reading. A sure 8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIG_Lynch
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:02 am PT
Review:  man this game is nothin like i thought it would be or any of my friends thought it would theres 
 not enuff enemies nie graphix but too easy the game is 70% puzzle and runin up and down walls and 
 stuff but only 30% fighting if it wasnt for the graphix i wouldnt even have gave it a 6.5 and what 
 up with gettin those orbs it make the game tedious and mandatory to go out of ur way to get those 
 stupid things ide rather smell romanians all day and have no grapes than play waste as muh time 
 on this game as i did but for the most part its a good kiddie game if i had to suggest it to anyone 
 thats under 16 its a real struggle to stay interested in the game long enough to finish the game 
 and but on the plus side it did have some pretty bad ass moves when u did fight all in all i think 
 this game is way overrated just like tom brady and terrel owens 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zorlac0666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I was probably what you would call a mild fan of this series, and I decided to pick up Steam's 
 Prince of Persia deal pack (all the recent games) . So after downloading this overnight last night, 
 and starting play today, I only have one real word for this game so far. WOW!
  
  Now keeping in mind that I've only unlocked one power so far (so I'm not very far in yet) , this 
 game is nothing short of simply gorgeous. Every single move of the prince, and Elika is nothing 
 but pure art in motion. From the blue trails of magic that Elika leaves, her flowing blouse, the 
 spark from the Prince's gauntlet as it scrapes across walls, it's pure eye overload as you watch 
 these two run from place to place.
  
  Controlling them is beauty in motion as well. Keep in mind with my writing this I use a wired Xbox 
 360 controller to play this on the PC with, and it works wonderfully. Every time I die (or get 
 rescued rather) I feel like it's my fault, and not a fault of bad game design. From running, and 
 climbing walls to crawling across ceilings in a very Spiderman-esque fashion it all feels very 
 natural, and very fun. Honestly one of my reservations was how well controlling the two characters 
 would work with the way the PoP games normally play, but that was blown away as soon as I started. 
 Elika isn't cumbersome in the least bit, if you're hanging on a narrow ledge, and need to get to 
 the other side of her, it's accomplished by the Prince simply flipping her to his other side, and 
 moving on. Using her to double jump is also poetry in motion. All in all the traveling is some 
 of the most enjoyable I've done in a game in a long time. It's simply fun to explore the levels, 
 even with no real purpose in mind.
  
  
  Combat is also entertaining, simple, but still fun. Bosses, and most other enemies all have certain 
 strategies (which I won't divulge into here) , but suffice to say once you figure out how the combat 
 works, it's simply joyful when you run across an enemy. If there's one gripe I could make here 
 it's simply that there isn't enough combat. With that said though, what combat is there feels pretty 
 epic, and I'm guessing that was the way it's intended.
  
  
  
  Overall I'm extremely pleased with the game, and I recommend it to any fan of the series and to 
 any fan of action/adventure games in general. I'll be enjoying this game for a long time to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x8VXU6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed playing this game, its kinda hard at first but it will grow on u and thats when u will 
 start to like it. At first u dont care about Ekia but as it goes along u start to like more and 
 more, I like that she doesnt need u but u need her so isnt a problem to have her around. U cant 
 die in this game and some ppl say thats a bad thing but if u think about how many times Eika had 
 to save u, u would have died ALOT. Im talking like over 100 times if u aint no pro. the boss fight 
 r good I love the way Ekia does combo like u throw the boss in the air and she will jump up and 
 hit em. Aother thing is that the graphic look awesome, it looks like water paint and it works for 
 the game. Its not like the first PoP so like everything is done different. Its an amazing game 
 that fan boys and new comers alike will enjoy. So over all its a good game Im not a fan of the 
 first PoP, so Im not a fan boy. I say its a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l0crian
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The vast majority of people out there love to hand out glowing reviews to sub par games.
  
  This game has to be the most over rated game I have read reviews for to date. Even the official 
 xbox review team mentions that; "Elika is a lovable companion", "The game -play is super cool and 
 like totally awesome"
  
  The problem is with these people is that they are too easily entertained and most probably couldn't 
 find the power button to an xbox if it's location wasn't duly noted in the game manual. On to the 
 game,
  
  The game is fun near the beginning... that is until it wears on your nerves at about an hour into 
 playing it. The controls need to be polished, as sometimes you find yourself catapulted to your 
 doom in an almost automated fashion. They lack logic and seem to be referenced to the camera angles, 
 so half the time playing the game is just plain happenstance. The actual game gets exceedingly 
 repetitive as every single level is exactly the same. Jump around. Kill dude. Heal garden. This 
 coupled with a woman who just follows you around while acting pretentious is just plain annoying. 
 If she was wearing a sexy top, then maybe it'd be worthwhile talking to her.... otherwise she just 
 annoys the living **** out of you.
  
  The sound is good, music fitting and in short doses this game is playable... but don't expect to 
 be enthralled in a brilliant storyline or addictive game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wedge598
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the PoP series I was looking forward to this game. As far as the story and 
 level design is concerned I got what I expected from this series. But those elements just barely 
 carried me to the end of what turned into a rather poor platformer and mediocre fighting game.
 
  
  Unlike past games in the series this one seems to have been designed right from the start to be 
 a simple adventure game on rails. Travelling about the world is done along clearly defined paths 
 which merely require you to press A or B occasionally as your character seems to guide himself 
 along a set path. I never thought it possible to make a platformer game so much like a rail shooter. 
 And there are some flying sequences that are exactly that.
  
  Unlike past games in the series the combat is more or less confined to boss fights that you must 
 complete several times each. Each boss fight takes place on a small part of the game world and 
 the game literally transforms from a platformer to a fighting game (a la Soul Caliber) temporarily 
 as you fight the bosses. There are a couple other locations in the world where a single generic 
 enemy will spawn but the result is the same as the boss fights. The boss fights occasionally get 
 broken up a bit by cinematics and one of the bosses requires an indirect attack plan which makes 
 it somewhat interesting. The combo list is huge but largely unecessary as you will most like discover 
 one or two multi-hit combos that will get the job done for you.
  
  In the end the game feels like two games in one yet both games feel separate from one another. 
 Fortunately the clever dialog between the two main characters and the jaw dropping environments 
 keeps you entertained through most of the game. The ending is one of the better endings with a 
 twist that'll make you laugh or cry and it is worth sticking with the game to see it. 
  
  The production values are high on this game with a good list of achievements to keep you playing. 
 The gameplay has just been dumbed down far too much for my tastes and you never feel like you have 
 free reign to explore the world. There is always a clearly defined path to get you where you want 
 to go and you'll travel these paths over and over through out the game. Ultimately you'll end up 
 feeling unsatisfied and a little more like an observer than an actually participant in the game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaveeLordLiuBei
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Run, jump, ocassionally double jump, run on wall, jump, snag a ring, hit a button when a special 
 color coded huge spot is passed, repeat, repeat, repeat, repeat, repeat.
  
  Now push the talk button about a hundred times, (yes, you HAVE to) , to hear extremely juvenile 
 talk between Elika and the Prince. There are no puzzles. There are no saws. No thinking. Follow 
 the bouncing ball if you want to.
  
  The so called "timing" spots are made for 5 year olds. But just in case you haven't reached that 
 age, they will tell you repeatedly that you need to time this button just right.......
  
  You missed that warning? No really, push the talk button again so we can warn you again that you 
 will have to time this right and look over there, that is where you will have to push a button 
 (which means there is a 2 second window to hit) .
  
  Good boy! You did it! (How could you miss?) Now press talk button some more before we let you go 
 to the next pretty spot to push a button once in a while. 
  
  BTW- If we have you fight, it will be one on one where most of the time we just want you to block 
 or hit one button, (a button we will point out for you, of course) . 
  
  This is NOT a PoP game, except in name and franchise ownership.
  
  Do you get the picture yet? 
 If not, buy the game. Welcome to the "you've been had" club. I have never been so disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grafkhun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Remember that movie called Zuu Warrior? It had really cheesy special effects, tons of melodramatic 
 scenes and it looked like the last-place winner of an abstract film contest? No? That's great, 
 because it has nothing do to with Prince of Persia. This is the first current-gen outing for our 
 beloved acrobatic prince and I'll just get it out of the way, it's different, but a good type of 
 different. You'll be jumping, fighting and puzzling your way through gorgeous vistas just like 
 the last trilogy. But this one captures the magic of the series, something that was sadly missing 
 for a while.
  
  
  The Prince in this game actually doesn't seem to be very princely. He's wandering around in the 
 desert looking for his donkey, who is laden with a king's ransom worth of gold apparently, that 
 he lost in a sandstorm. The Prince then stumbles upon the land of the Ahura. This group is long 
 gone except for two, Elika and her father. They have protected the Tree of Life, a small sapling 
 that imprisons Ahriman, that god of darkness. The Ahura worship Ormazd the god of light and for 
 1000 years they have kept Ahriman at bay. However Ahriman has been released from his woody confines 
 and the Prince, being unable to find his donkey and unable to leave the land, joins with Elika 
 to heal the land from Ahrimans grasp. To heal the land they must reach Fertile Grounds and cleanse 
 Ahrimans Corruption from one area at a time.
  
  
  Plot wise Prince of Persia doesn't get to complex but the tale it tells is pretty good. There is 
 some clever writing, although some of the Prince's lines will require a facepalm or two, and the 
 finale is very memorable and will definitely make you take a moment to think. The Prince and Elika 
 will occasionally have scripted conversations but you can also engage in optional conversations 
 at any time. I found myself constantly chatting with Elika as the unique interactions between them 
 were charming to say the least.
  
  
  Unlike the previous Prince of Persia's, this one takes an open-world design and let's you choose 
 what levels you want to tackle in the order you want. The story will still be linear but being 
 able to choose which areas to go to next is much appreciated.
  
  
  Sands of Time was without a doubt, excellent. It set up a great atmosphere and revitalized the 
 series from its humble 2D SNES roots. Warrior Within and The Two Thrones were much darker and lost 
 the charm of the original trilogy installment. Sure they still had top-notch gameplay and superb 
 level-design, but they didn't feel like a true-blue Prince of Persia game. This Prince of Persia 
 is both a nostalgic game and a revolutionary game. The sense of magic and fantasy are fully realized 
 here, this game is like a children's fairy tale. It's so hard to describe without using visual 
 examples, but everything in it comes together to give you that sense of wonderment that games have 
 lost a long time ago.
  
  
  The original 2D Prince of Persia, which focused on the concept of minute movement and immaculate 
 control was lost in the last-gen trilogy already. This new Prince of Persia, which oddly is subtitle-less, 
 simplifies the formula even more. Controlling the prince requires very little player input and 
 some actions are very automatic. The game doesn't 'play-by-itself' by any means but it's definitely 
 been heavily simplified. Undemanding controls are actually for the better. Prince of Persia is 
 more an experience, not an interactive fantasy movie, but treating it as a full-fledged 'game' 
 game is sort of missing the point. The game is meant to be like a stream of consciousness; platforming 
 segments are so intuitively designed, combat is so sleek and puzzles are tough to figure out but 
 easy to execute. Controls are not only simple, but the scheme is so user-friendly as well. In fact 
 Prince of Persia streamlines practically everything. Jumping up a cliff only requires one press 
 of the jump button. Most platformers would have you press jump to go on the wall, then jump again 
 to climb up it, then jump one more time to pull yourself above the ledge.
  
  
  Combat, unlike most other action-adventure games, focuses on one enemy. Every fight is just you 
 and Elika versus a single foe. You may think that the battles will be quick and banal, but that's 
 the exact opposite. By limiting combat to one foe, each battle is like a mini-boss. This does have 
 some complications, first of all, the momentum and sway of the battle is not as dynamic as I had 
 hoped. Generally you'll be defending yourself for the majority of the time, and then when you get 
 a chance to do a flamboyant lengthy combo, it's back to the defensive position right after. Two 
 or three combos should finish off a foe and when a battle can last almost ten minutes, there's 
 some awkward pacing in combat at times. Also throughout each area, in addition to some regular 
 foes, there is one recurring foe that will eventually be the last boss of that area. The problem 
 with fighting the same opponent over and over is that the fights can be a bit repetitious. They 
 will do the same handful of QTE's and usually stick to the same attack patterns. Also the taunting 
 nature of the Concubine becomes aggravating moments within the first fight with her, I was so happy 
 to final defeat her for good.
  
  
  But whenever you get into the groove of battle and you're deflecting attacks and dancing around 
 your foe pulling off insanely flashy combos, it feels great. It's just cool to finally master a 
 combo and then pull it off. In fact Prince of Persia encourages experimentation of the combo system. 
 Since it's so easy to go between phases of the combo tree you'll be trying new attack formulas 
 up to the last boss. 
  
  
  In Prince of Persia the controls are almost all regulated to the face buttons. For example, when 
 wall-running there is a ring on the wall, in order to swing on it you press the gauntlet button 
 and the Prince does the rest. In combat, press the gauntlet button and the Prince will launch the 
 enemy into the air. Then when the enemies in the air you and Elika can pound on it before you hit 
 the jump button and re-launch the enemy for another airborne beating. Or you could do an acrobatic 
 launch chained from a grounded Elika combo then finish up with another cluster of attacks after 
 re-launching the foe with a gauntlet toss. Combo tree's have never been so fun.
  
  
  Prince of Persia is an easy game, not a cakewalk, but it's not very challenging. I'm fine with 
 that since the game is still satisfying and it's just fun to play. Prince of Persia also will not 
 let you die, that's right, you cannot die in Prince of Persia. That's because if you fall off a 
 platform or are about to be finished off by a fatal blow from an enemy Elika will save you. This 
 doesn't not detract from the game at all, in fact it makes it more immersive and less frustrating. 
 In most platformers when you do fall when platforming you'll just be given a 'Game Over' screen 
 and prompted to continue. Well Elika basically serves as that screen, she automatically and quickly 
 saves you and drops you off on the last solid ground you were on. Prince of Persia cuts out the 
 'Game Over' screens and all the tedium of having to press 'yes of course I want to continue, I 
 know I just missed the edge by a few inches, let me retry already goddammit.'
  
  
  Puzzles unfortunately are not as prominent as I would of hoped in this Prince of Persia. There 
 are only like four or so puzzles that are worthy of the Prince of Persia name. The lack of mind-boggling 
 puzzles is something that I would very much like to see remedied in the next Prince of Persia installment. 
 I play action-adventure games for the perfect balance of puzzles, combat and platforming. Don't 
 fret though, Prince of Persia's few puzzles are really well done.
  
  
  Graphically Prince of Persia is one the best games I have ever seen. It's cel-shaded, but it does 
 the style properly. Objects don't have dominating black outlines, colors are not flat or saturated 
 and textures are well detailed. Environments have remarkable draw distances, very few geometry 
 hiccups and some really well done architectural layouts. The character models are especially well 
 rendered as well as the enemies. There's always some little detail that you'll just notice about 
 the Prince's model. I was halfway through before I even noticed the intricate diamond pleated design 
 on the hem of his tunic cloak. Perhaps the best thing to look at in Prince of Persia though, besides 
 Elika's physique, is the animation. Prince of Persia games have always had some of the best animation, 
 but this game takes it to a new level. Given the sheer variety of moves the Price and Elika can 
 carry out, its amazing how little clipping and stuttering there is. You'll see some rare glitch-y 
 or unnatural animations here and there, but for the majority of the game everything moves flawlessly.
 
  
  
  One thing that must be mentioned is the beauty of the world. I'd just stop and slowly pan the camera 
 around to absorb all the gorgeous visuals. There are some truly breathtaking views and it's made 
 all the better with practically no screen tearing and very little texture pop-in. You can even 
 see little pollen clusters in the air whenever you run through a bush. Perhaps the reason Prince 
 of Persia's environments are so beautiful is because they don't adhere to the modern gaming color 
 palette. This is a colorful game with so much more than just brown, gray and black. I found myself 
 just running around in The Vale for fun because it looked so damn amazing.
  
  
  On the audio side everything is top-notch as well. The voice acting is well done, besides the Princes 
 somewhat bland and modern accent. Sound effects are great, be it the clash of swords or the shuffling 
 of a wall-run. The orchestral soundtrack is nothing really amazing, but I enjoyed all the music 
 and it definitely fits the tone of the game well. Sometimes the ethnic percussion and charming 
 baritone melody drop out and all you hear is the ambiance. The birds chirping, the water flowing, 
 the wind rustling through the trees and then when you're elegantly jumping between a pole and 
 a magical plate, ah bliss.
  
  
  Wait, magical plates? After you cleanse an area by healing the Fertile Ground light seeds will 
 appear in that area. When you collect them you'll unlock Elika's special powers one at a time and 
 with each power she can utilize a new type of plate. Each plate endows you and Elika with a new 
 power. They are all quite simple, serving really just as a flashy means to transport you from one 
 spot to another. But despite the somewhat lackluster nature of them, they are still satisfactory 
 little platforming diversions. Gathering light seeds may sound boring but not all of them are required 
 to beat the game. Just by traveling from one area to the next you should get at least three-fourths 
 of the seeds that are needed. So there isn't much backtracking and seed hunting to be done.
  
  
  Prince of Persia is exactly what I was looking for. It is classic third-person action-adventuring 
 with just enough minor innovations to make it feel new, yet still remain familiar. Even better 
 it shows me the potential for the Prince on current-gen hardware. I'm really hoping for another 
 game in the lieu of this one, with the same focus on 'experiencing' rather than 'playing' and steam-lining 
 the formula to an even sharper razor's edge. It's been a while since I played a game like Prince 
 of Persia; action-adventure games are on the downfall. Also, with almost every game out there competing 
 to be the best at replicating realism, Prince of Persia's whimsical nature and magical sheen make 
 it an enjoyable and exciting adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrjam0
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  - When Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time was released, it became one of the most highly acclaimed 
 titles of the last generation. The acrobatic platforming and creative puzzles made the reimagining 
 a classic. Fans waited for a next-gen installment to the series for some time. Assassins Creed 
 was the closest anyone could get to the experience as Ubisoft Montreal took many of the mechanics, 
 and put them in last year's hit. Now Montreal finally brings an actual Prince of Persia title to 
 the high-def generation, reinventing the series. A lot has changed since Two Thrones, but is this 
 a welcomed change? 
  - The instant players boot put Prince of Persia; they'll notice one of the better and the most 
 obvious change in the series. Influenced by games such as Okami and Viewtiful Joe, Ubisoft Montreal 
 painted this new installment with beautiful cell shaded, water color visuals, accompanied by gorgeous 
 particle effects over the Assassin's Creed engine making it one of the most visually impressive 
 games to date. The attention to detail is stunning; Ekila's blouse flutters in the wind, every 
 engraved mark can be seen on the Princes gauntlet, corrupted enemies are displayed in a grotesquely 
 attractive fashion, and plant-life blooms with spiraling light as Elika purifies fertile grounds. 
 These are just four small examples of what player will be exposed to. Set the controller down for 
 a while, and the camera will switch to showing off the architecture of Prince of Persia.
  - Another addition is your loyal companion Elika. The debut of Elika makes her one of the most 
 useful ally AI characters out there. Forget about brain dead allies who get in the way, can't hold 
 their own, and fail to help you, Elika holds none of these characteristics. Concerns were questioning 
 how the new Prince was going to replace the Sands of Time which saved you, or gave you a second 
 chance after falling or dying. Elika does both. The princess's magical abilities allow her to pull 
 you back to safety if you miss a jump and she also prevents you from perishing in battle. Simply 
 put, Because of Elika's presence, you can't die. However there is a penalty for failing in battle. 
 Before an enemy is about to strike you down, a quick-time button will appear. If it's not pressed 
 time, Elika will force the enemy back, preventing them from killing you. However, a great amount 
 of health is restored to them. But she also plays an offensive roll in battle. With the Y button, 
 Elika will jump in, striking the enemy with her penetrating magic. She can be implemented into 
 a number of stringed combos, making her a very useful asset in combat. She also is used as a double 
 jump with, again, a simple tap of the Y button. Reach a jump that is impossible for the Prince 
 to make on his own and the screen will fade white as an indication. Hit the Y button, and Elika 
 will swoop in and throw you to where you need to go. Just think of Elika as an extension of the 
 Prince, but with a personality.
  - Along with saving your ass in battle, Elika has the ability to activate plates which allow the 
 pair to reach locations that can't be found by acrobatics alone. There are 4 different types which 
 are the key to the Prince's and Elika's quest. Collect enough light seeds, you'll be required to 
 return to the temple and gain the ability to use one of these plates. Each provides the two different 
 ways of progressing through the levels, whether it's by flight, or even running up and down walls. 
 This isn't a complaint, but a mere comment: why is it that they have to fly up, down and around 
 when they can just fly straight to get to the same exact destination?
  - Throughout your adventure, an Elika logo will pop up one the lower left hand corner in the screen, 
 indicating to you to talk to Elika. Most games that allow you to talk to you allied characters 
 usually insert some form of valuable information such as hints on what your next objective is, 
 and hints on how to make progress through the game. However it is rarely seen in conversations 
 with Elika. The dialogue holds nothing more that background stories about the Princess, corrupted 
 villains, and her kingdom. The voice acting is good, and there are some charming exchanges from 
 time to time, but ultimately you'll feel like you're wasting time. You never have to actually spark 
 a conversation with Elika.
  - Prince of Persia however does a great job in bringing the chemistry between Elika and the Prince 
 to life. Without even talking to her, occasionally the two will comment on one another, whether 
 it's a flirting complement, or telling each other how fat of clumsy they are. There's even a physical 
 attraction here. Just by playing the game, you'll see how the two interact with one another in 
 real time. On fissures, the Prince will swing Elika on his back, or to the side; and on beams when 
 they're crossing one another, they perform a cute little spin which switching positions. There's 
 even a chuckle or a comment from time to time when they do that. Even if you skip the dialogue 
 through the game, none will miss out on the charming exchanges made between the two.
  - The overall objective that the game presents player with is to reach fertile grounds and heal 
 them, collect light seeds, and move on. There are 20 fertile grounds throughout the game. Players 
 can bring up the map with the select button to get a view of all the locations. From this screen, 
 one can teleport between grounds, set destinations in which can be tracked down by Elika's compass, 
 and keep track of your light seed count. After healing the fertile grounds, a scene will play with 
 Elika creating a blossoming environment which is reminiscent of Okami (only not as good.) Once 
 the grounds are healed, light-seeds appear throughout the environment. Collect enough light seeds, 
 and you'll be informed to return to the temple to acquire a new ability, wash, rinse, repeat. This 
 is the overall structure of the game, leaving players with little to do here. Enemies are also 
 few and far between. There are roughly 3 corrupted enemies in each section. Make it to their black 
 spiral spawning point in time, and you won't have to face them at all; so all you're left with 
 is trekking through different areas collecting light seeds. The game is also missing key elements 
 that helped make the previous titles. Hazards such as spinning blades, spinning pillars and spiked 
 rooms challenged players to think before leaping. These hazardous encounters were puzzles within 
 themselves which forced critical thinking. The "hazards" in this title deserve nothing more than 
 a brief glance, some of which are actually harmless. There is the standard corruption that covers 
 certain areas blocking off the Prince. There's the moving corruption the shifts up and down walls 
 which can be easily avoided by a timed jump, and grabbing corruption that slings tentacles outside 
 the walls attempting to snatch the Prince from the walls. The other two aren't even worth mentioning. 
 Flying corruption and corrupted air can't actually harm the Prince, it seems that their only purpose 
 there is bland intimidation while chasing him in mid climb (if they actually do harm, let me know 
 because they were never a problem for me) . Puzzles here are a joke compared to what was once used. 
 There is only a handful, and they provide little challenge to the player. Ultimately the game feels 
 empty; once the ground is healed, the majority of the time spent is dedicated to collect light 
 seeds.
  - Signature platforming hasn't changed much from the previous games, but maneuvering around gets 
 a bit tedious if it doesn't respond accordingly. Platforming is generally a fluid experience in 
 both gameplay and a spectacle once players string together an uninterrupted series of acrobatics. 
 However, there are times when it becomes unresponsive which can be frustrating once you lose your 
 hold, having Elika bring you all the way back to safe ground. A perfect example occurs during the 
 once famous wall jump. In the previous Prince of Persias, all it took was a well timed repetition 
 of button presses to scale between two walls. This time, you jump will be interrupted by fissures 
 in the walls and the game doesn't seem to always recognize where your pushing the joystick. So 
 if you want to throw yourself up from the fissure, the game might respond in having the Prince 
 shift from side to side. This doesn't just happen during wall jumps, you may hit the Y button to 
 trigger one of Elika's abilities and plates (especially the plates) , or the B to grab rings on 
 the walls and ceilings. This is ever more frustrating when you're forced all the way back to the 
 starting point. This is a rare occurrence (other than the plates) , but it's certainly noticeable 
 once your momentum is broken by something so miniscule and annoying.
  - Combat wasn't anything revolutionary last generation, but that was intended to change for the 
 better in this title. This new installment throws away the old button mashing hack-and-slash combat 
 of the previous Prince of Persias and implements a simplified one-on-one fighting game. This suffers 
 for reasons some may not expect. While the idea of only facing one enemy may not sound that bad 
 on paper, it doesn't make up for the missing amount of enemies in its depth. Montreal bragged about 
 the rhythmic based fighting mechanic, but I'm afraid there's not much to offer here. You have the 
 choice of using sword attacks, gauntlet, acrobatics, and using Elika. Anyone of these can be stringed 
 together to unleash a combo. While these attacks are quite stylish, the problem is that this is 
 the complete package for the entire game. The prince himself doesn't get any new combat abilities, 
 and the four methods of attack is all you need to defeat about 70% of the enemies in the game in 
 including the boss fights. There are 4 bosses in the game in which you will face them before approaching 
 all the fertile grounds. They are a little more challenging, but nothing more. In the end, the 
 only variety that added is that players will occasionally run in to quick time moments, and times 
 when enemies are only vulnerable to a specific method of attack, but that's all the Prince's combat 
 system has to offer. Once you've fought your first battle, you've experienced it all. The only 
 thing that's left is experimenting with what you already have.
  - Most of the problems with the game are just poor design choices, but there was one big technical 
 flaw in the game. This may have just happened with me, but after defeating the Hunter and escaping 
 his lair, the game remained at a standstill. All I was able to do was run around the area; there 
 was no scene which played after every boss fight. I couldn't even teleport to another location. 
 I was forced to restart the game, and continue from there.
  - With all the complaints I have about Prince of Persia, don't assume I think it's a bad game. 
 The mechanics work for the most part, and it has amazing presentation. But the game doesn't throw 
 much at the player to interact with. Sure there's the new inclusion of plates, and the use of Elika, 
 but much of what was in the previous titles were scaled down. Enemies are rare, puzzles are hardly 
 difficult, and there isn't enough to challenge the player. The game did get increasingly more enjoyable 
 towards the end as there were more frequent boss fights, especially the final boss which was spectacular. 
 But in the end, all this wasn't enough to numb the bitter after taste that accumulated throughout 
 the game. It's obvious that this is the generation of the casual gamer as companies are beginning 
 to make their games more accessible. But developers and publishers need to know that there's a 
 difference between a casualized game and a boring game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why this game is classified Fantasy Action Adventure here as it is almost certainly 
 a mildly atypical platformer. It IS fun. I don't usually care for platformers but this one was 
 fun. The areas are interesting and numerous with enough variation to keep your eyes pleased. The 
 graphics are really pretty and a bit off-beat (at least as far as the character portrayals) . The 
 story is interesting if a little thin. Unfortunately, the "mystery" grows a little tiresome toward 
 the end. The characters are likable, especially Elika. The prince is a little one dimensional (if 
 you will pardon the pun) and there are some lost story embellishment opportunities with Elika's 
 father and the nemesis itself as well. The interaction between the two main characters is also 
 weak and vague. Under these disappointments lies the gameplay which is fun, engrossing, dynamic 
 and smooth. It is the real star of the game, followed closely by the original looking graphics. 
 The combat system is typical for these types of games. I have to say I am not a big fan of the 
 "carpel tunnel syndrome" school of button mashing, but at least this game keeps it to a fair minimum. 
 The interface for the game is minimal and there is no inventory whatsoever. I won't give away the 
 ending but I will say it was nicely done, although a bit predictable and left me unsatisfied. You 
 will know why when you play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonMillsap
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  First things first, I'm really surprised about the somewhat lackluster response critics are giving 
 this game. So what if it's not the series revamp that Sands of Time was, it's still a beautiful 
 game with many new and interesting ideas to discover.
  
  When you begin the game, you discover "the prince" trapped in a sandstorm where he comes across 
 Elika, the princess of the City of Light and one of the last remaining gardians of the tree of 
 light, that has been holding the god of darkness Arihuman captive for a thousand years. This eventually 
 leads to Elika's father (The Mourning King) to destroy the tree of light, thus releasing Arihuman 
 and his followers. (The Corrupted) The game quickly takes a fast open world pace, where you are 
 required to heal the lands that Ariuhman has cast his shadow upon. THIS games story isn't as twisty 
 or maybe enthraling as the "Sands" trilogy, but it leaves the story open for an intense new series 
 to follow the new antagonists through.
  
  The gameplay has been somewhat revamped in this installment. You still have the welcome wall-running, 
 jumping, swinging platforming, but in addition they've added rings to extend your wall runs and 
 a new movement entirely, the roof run. The sand powers of the last series have been replaced here 
 by powers of Ormazd (The god of Light) , that you unlock by collecting light orbs in the healed 
 regions of the game. They span from long jumps, to altogether flying through massive areas. The 
 combat has been drastically changed, from the last games where they would throw multiple enemies 
 at you, in this installment you will never fight more than one enemy at once, creating a much more 
 cinematic battle system full of time sensitive actions a la God of War. Oh, and you can't die in 
 this game either, Elika will always be there to catch your fall, or get an enemy off your back 
 for you to recover.
  
  The graphics in this game are Gorgeous, beautiful cell-shaded enviornments never seem to stop and 
 you'll always be astounded by the next turn of a corner or higher peak. The new style works very 
 well, and actually creates more of a story book feel than any of the "Sands" games achieved. 
 
  
  So, if you are a fan of the series, you will have no problem falling right back into this game 
 where you left off. It's a great new begining to what will hopefully be an epic and beautiful chapter 
 in the Prince of Persia franchise. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enisguy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 10:09 am PT
Review:  So let's start off with the obvious good points.
  
  This game is fabulously beautiful. This is quite possibly the best collaboration between the artistic 
 and technical side of game visual development ever displayed in a game. The colors are excellent, 
 the level design is fabulous, and the sheer size and scope of everything constantly amazes and 
 never gets old. Add in the fact that the visuals in this game have their own particular style and 
 the game is just amazing to look at as a whole.
  
  I've heard a lot of complaints about the new prince, but he isn't all that bad. He reminds me of 
 Han Solo. Anybody that played through Warrior Within and dealt with the groan inducing teen angst 
 of that Prince should have nothing to complain about with this one.
  
  The characters are deep, especially Elika, and they're enjoyable and interesting to travel through 
 the game with.
  
  However, there are some really terrible elements in this game that make it the single worst installment 
 of the franchise yet.
  
  Combat is awful. I mean spectacularly awful. The camera is fixed and often sits behind columns 
 and the pillar of light from the fertile grounds during boss fights, leaving you unable to see 
 anything at all except the gorgeous texture of the pillar itself while you get your butt whipped. 
 There are various quick time events a la God of War, but many of them are pop up and vanish so 
 quickly that you literally have no chance to succeed with them unless you've fought the same boss 
 multiple times and know when they are going to come up, making it worthless to even have the button 
 presses in the first place.
  
  Every is ragging on the fact that you can't die at all, but it's not that bad. Especially not in 
 the platforming aspect of the game. The bad part about platforming here is that it's all very watered 
 down. Gone are there "Hmm, where am I supposed to go now?" elements of the previous Prince of Persia 
 games. All it takes in this one is a quick press of the Y button and Elika shows you exactly where 
 to go. I would prefer a good map and the means to navigate it by myself.
  
  The fact that you can't die in platforming is just a checkpoint system, and it's way overblown 
 as a negative point. That being said, it would be nice for Elika to have had some sort of gauge 
 on her magic so that you could only die a certain number of times. Ubisoft would have greatly benefited 
 by having multiple difficulty levels. Easy, where Elika's magic is unlimited and you have her compass. 
 Normal, with the map and a limited magic meter. Hard, also with the map, but an extremely limited 
 amount of Elika's magic.
  
  As for combat, it's the same -- Elika will save you literally hundreds of times through combat 
 alone when the camera is constantly thwarting you and throughout the various impossible QTEs.
 
  
  I had the most fun in this game traveling from point to point, healing the lands, and experiencing 
 the character growth between the Prince and Elika. What I did not enjoy, however, was Ubisoft's 
 cheap attempt to lengthen the game by requiring us to collect the light orbs. I feel taken as a 
 fool when I see things like this in games. It feels very much like Ubisoft realized that the game 
 was way too short if they just gave Elika the abilities after finishing one of the four bosses, 
 so they tacked this on. It's incredibly boring and drove me more than one time to turn the game 
 off after finishing a boss, and turning instead to Fable 2 or Valkyria Chronicles. I ended up dragging 
 myself back to this game several times in order to get the bare minimum number of light orbs by 
 backtracking through previously conquered areas.
  
  It would have been nice to see Ubisoft instead have a very limited number of orbs reside in extremely 
 hard to reach places instead, and leaving achievements/trophies for how many the user could collect. 
 Gameplay lengthening through a cheap tactic like this is never appreciated, and it's one of my 
 main pet peeves with the video game industry right now.
  
  One minor note that is impossible not mention. Turning the cranks. I frequently found myself dropping 
 huge strings of curses at the impossibility to consistently press the right button to turn a crank. 
 I would rotate the joystick in the direction that I wanted the Prince and Elika to turn the crank, 
 and it was about a 50/50 chance that the crank would actually turn that way. This left me absolutely 
 dumbfounded, as the same exact cranks have been in the Prince of Persia series since Sands of Time, 
 and have worked with the joystick since then, yet using the joystick in this game to operate them 
 is basically left to chance that you will actually turn it the right way.
  
  All in all this game is very average. The platforming is fun but lacks the depth of the previous 
 games. The combat is absolutely awful and is far and away the worst of all of the Prince of Persia 
 games, which is really saying something since the worst part of Sands of Time was the combat.
 
  
  In conclusion, it's starting to look like die-hard fans of the Sands of Time game will never get 
 a similar experience again... Myself included. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heatfanman101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  You may had heard the graphics in Prince of Persia are amazing, but I'm not sure if I agree with 
 that. The art style is what defines the look of this well polished game. It is extremely easy, 
 but that stops being a problem after the first few hours of playing. The boss battles are extremely 
 fun, which benefits the game in great ways because most of the combat is against bosses. If your 
 a fan of Prince of Persia games, let alone action games, you'll think this game is great.
  l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirsafar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Right, I'll break it up into sections:
  
  1) Single Player Story- The single player story is amazing. The story is enterntaining and keeps 
 you interested. The new prince is really fresh and funny, and a very likable character. Elika is 
 also a sweet addition. You go around healing fertile grounds and gathering light seeds. You face 
 4 bosses, and fight them 5 times each in a 1 on 1 dual. I dont want to spoil the ending and such, 
 but it is pretty damn amazing. Theres no difficulty setting, making it way too easy. And the fact 
 that you never die, well although its not bad because you dont have to go through a loading screen, 
 it would have added to the challenge. Also when i mean its way too short, you could get this done 
 in about 3 days. So i would recommend it for a rent, but buy it if your a really big fan of the 
 PoP series like me. 
  
  3) Graphics- AMAZING. I had doubt about the new artistic style, but its the best ive ever seen. 
 So nice and colourful, it is literally a water colour painting brought to life.
  
  4) Sound- The sound is pretty good. Music is nice, sound effects like the prince landing from a 
 jump are top notch.
  
  5) Gameplay- I think the controls are good, if not a bit too easy to use, but its top notch.
  
 
  6) Achievements- For those who are interested the achievements are good, some online ones that are 
 pretty hard to get though, i have got 700/1000 so far.
  
  Overall, the game is defo a rent. But as i said, only buy if your a really big fan, 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antman117
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  To be perfectly honest when i first heard that this game was going to be released i wasnt sure 
 what to make of it, I mean i was a hugh fan of the the original trilogy and to hear that they planned 
 to drop the graphics style the characters, and the ability to re-wind time.
  But i can safely say this game is amazing, its visually beautiful, fun to play, has a good story, 
 enjoyable and well rounded characters, damn funny moments - including a few jokes about the previous 
 series the ability to stop and talk to you companion at any time produces some truely hilarious 
 dialogue. This game without a doubt sits high amongst my favorite games of all time, the only minor 
 complaints i have is its too short and a little too easy and ends on one hell of a cliffhanger. 
 but apart from that it is a enjoyable and highly entertaining game!
  
  I Strongly Advise You To Buy It Now
  Drop Whatever You Are Doing And Go Buy It ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewareOfTrees88
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a beauty. Though I can say that I was one of those people who was slightly aggravated 
 by the necessity to find a certain number of light seeds before moving on to a new area, it is 
 worth the time in the end because it gives the player the time to appreciate the world that these 
 characters are tying to save. Though the design is the best part by far, the game is further filled 
 out by the characters, banter, and story line.
  
  While moving around the world, one of the best things is how the game incorporates the feeling 
 that these two characters really need each other to get around, such as when the prince carries 
 her on his back through the vine covered areas, or in the jumps that span a distance to large for 
 just one man. But the idea of having two people taking up space was even put in to the smaller 
 details, which I really appreciated, like when they need to change places on a wall or beam.
  
  But that is not to say that this is a game without flaws. For starters, the combat was not 
 all that great. It took me forever to figure out ways to actually get a sword hit in without automatically 
 going into a "deflect moment," which half of the time ended with the prince holding his side, cursing 
 my inability to press buttons at the right time. But these moments weren't even the worst button 
 pressing moments. Though I enjoyed the cinematic elements of the fights, most of the time if I 
 didn't press the button needed within half a second I ended up sprawled on the floor, praying that 
 the villain wouldn't get half of his life back. Another thing that did not get its moment in the 
 spotlight when it came to combat was the prince's gauntlet, I learned pretty early on that the 
 gauntlet had too big of a risk factor, so instead I busied myself just trying to hit someone with 
 my sword. And finally, I don't know if it was just me or what, but the main villain fights were 
 a lot easier than the randomly placed battles throughout the level. Whenever I saw the column of 
 black corruption reaching towards the sky, I used all my might to will my character faster and 
 faster so that I could just knock out the guy with one swoop of my sword and just forgo the battle 
 all together. 
  
  But enough about the combat, another iffy aspect were the plates. Whenever I saw a red or blue 
 plate coming up I was relieved that I didn't have to try "flying" around with yellow or crawling 
 with the green. The flying was just irritating, and half of the time character control wasn't even 
 necessary because there was nothing to dodge. Now flip that comment and apply it to the green plates. 
 I will admit i was excited at first when I got to climb around on the walls, however, when I got 
 to one of the towers that had a string of 10 plates or so, I wanted to shoot someone. Not only 
 was it ridiculous that if you messed up at any point in this train of chaos you were shot back 
 to the beginning, but when it happens about 15 times in a row, its downright uncalled for. 
  
  And finally, my last complaint was that at times my characters had minds of their own. I would 
 swear that I was aiming to jump in one direction, but it turns out that I was nowhere near my target 
 and ended up flying off into the abyss. Though I was relieved that Elika was there to help, I wish 
 that I hadn't needed her as much as I did. I decided incredibly early on that there was no way 
 that I would get the achievement for needed her help under 100 times throughout the entire game.
 
  
  With all that said, in the end this is still a really great game. I just hope that the combat is 
 fixed before the next game, which I am assuming/hoping will be in the works some day soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr3v3r
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  I remembered getting the first prince of persia for christmas the year it came out, I loved it, 
 it was a damn good game.
  
  But then the next persia came out, it was tolerable, But I didn't have enough motivation to go 
 through it. The THIRD persia came out, I didn't even touch it. But then I got this new prince of 
 persia for christmas, and I gotta say, It's amazing.
  
  Graphics-
  The graphics are beautiful in all senses, the art direction is awesome, It just has a really good 
 epic feel to it.
  
  Story-
  I'm actually digging the story in this one, I think it's pretty solid.
  I won't spoil anything 
 though.
  
  Gameplay-
  (Platforming)
  Easy feel, it's a blast to platform as the prince, such awesome new mechanics to the game. You 
 can never die, as the princess replaces the sands of time. This might turn some off, but the controls 
 over all, are good and simple, its just really sensitive at times, and you can make a lot of mistakes. 
 She's a real time saver if you ask me.
  
  (Open World)
  I was kinda iffy about the open world in the game, but it's actually fun to travel around due to 
 a lot of platforming segments between temples. Kind of feels like shadow of the colossus. 
  
  (Combat)
  I love the new combat system, its really epic. I love stringing combo's together, 
 there is a lot of quick time events, but I really dig it. It makes boss/enemy battles a whole lot 
 more epic and fun.
  
  My over all verdict would be is that, any prince fan or any platforming fan should try out this 
 game, at least once. It's a awesome first step into next gen.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mer-k
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  ITS GREAT TO TO HAVE PRINCE OF PERSIA BACK!!!! And with really cool graphics, sound, story and 
 a very easy control. One of the best games of this year!!! If you enjoyed Sands of Time, this new 
 look Prince of Persia will knock your heads off!!! At first, I thought you were gonna have to choose 
 between both characters but the way you manipulate both a the same time its just one of a kind! 
 It has several new features that bring the best of being in the new generation consoles, like when 
 you talk to Ellika, or when you catch the scenes. One of the things that I liked to is that if 
 you leave the control with out entering pause, youll have a scene saver right into your tv. Its 
 a nice detail of the game. So PRINCE OF PERSIA still haves the unique style to climb beautiful 
 buildings, and perform great acrobats and with a little help from her new friend you wont be worried 
 of falling down again. The battle with bosses are also special and it is worth to do different 
 combos along with a right guard. Dont miss the help you can get from Ellika at all times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonOfloom
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  First thing you need to know is I haven't completed this game, and I'm not sure if i can manage 
 to complete it for the main fact it is very boring. The gameplay that is, the characters and story 
 seems alittle interesting, but its just a shame the gameplay is very dull.
  
  If I was to describe PoP I would say its like having a patronizing guy telling you how to Open 
 a door, "Pull the Handle". Yes, ok I'm quite capable of doing it myself. This is what PoP feels 
 like to me, the walls have obvious signs saying, run along this wall, run up this wall, press B 
 here, press A here. Its patronizing, theres nothing to figure out for yourself and this for me 
 takes way the point of a game. Not to mention it makes for a very liner game with the way it very 
 heavily directs you throughout the game so far.
  
  Perhaps the game will get better latter on, but already its to late, if I'm not enjoying myself 
 with a game within the first few hours, why should I take the effort of playing it until i do? 
 Its up to the Game Company to make me enjoy it, not myself.
  
  So, if you get your kicks from completing games, this is great for you, no effort required. If 
 however you like playing a game for a challange, excitement, risk, drama etc etc, get something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  Man, how I want to just say the words: "game of the year". I mean, I really do, but I can't. I 
 had such high expectations and this is exactly my kind of game. I was somehow expecting more. Does 
 that mean I hate the game? Absolutely not, not at all. I love it, it's not the best game of the 
 year. But it's a memorable thrillride with great platforming, cool combat and great characters. 
 The Prince is now a very different character from the one we saw in say, Warrior Within. Yeah thats 
 right, I love that game. To be honest, the "new" prince is not an improvement in my opinion. He's 
 just not that very interesting, he makes wisecracks and acts like a jerk most of the time. You 
 may hate me for this, but I actually prefer the Heavy Metal prince from Warrior Within over this 
 guy. 
  
  There's a new character called Elika, she's a much, much better character in every way. You care 
 way more for her. It's strange that the Prince is less interesting than another character in what, 
 I guess is supposed to be a reboot. Elika is the real hero in the game. She is also very helpful, 
 she can throw you in mid-air, making you jump longer. She can fly, fight and do all sorts of crazy 
 stuff. And the bond between her and the Prince is very good. She can also save you in combat and 
 from falling, but more on that later.
  
  The combat is interesting. It's more slow-paced than I'm used to, and you can't rely on button 
 mashing. But that's a good thing, it absolutely works brilliantly and the moves you can pull of 
 are just stunning. I just wish there were some more "real" boss battles and not just mini-boses 
 you face 5 times each. But that hasn't been a staple in previous games, so I'm fine with that. 
 The few puzzles that are in the game are clever and about the only challenge you'll encounter. 
 
  
  There is practically zero challenge to be found here. You can't die, it's impossible. And that 
 IS a problem. After finsihing Warrior Within, yeah, again with the Warrior Within, I know, bear 
 with me. I felt a real sense of accomplishment when I finished it. Here it's just, you finish it 
 and move on the something else. The ending is... good and bad. I'm real glad something that seemed 
 to happen got... reversed. But it litteraly ends with a "to be continued" in the form of an achievment. 
 Well, bring on the second game then. I did have some problems with a completely broken autosave 
 function, there seems to be a few people who have experienced this problem. But this is okay, because 
 you can save manually. Also, did I mention that the game, just like Elika, looks absolutely, amazingly 
 beautiful. It is breathtaking.
  
  If you like platforming games, Prince of Persia delivers a great adventure. It also has the best 
 female character in a videogame ever. Sign me up for the next installment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix0003
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I really had a great time playing this game. Yes, I can see how this game holds the gamer by the 
 hand, but it is a game that one should still try out. Even though the game is easier then the other 
 three Prince of Persia, there are still challenges that gamers will enjoy. The interesting take 
 on making the game look like water paint is done well and looks beautiful. Also the cinematic feel 
 to the fighting aspect is fresh and fun. Elika, the prince's companion is a smart AI and does not 
 get in the way of the prince at all. I was uncertain about this feature, but I was proven wrong. 
 Elika definitely adds to the experience in both the story and game play. Prince of Persia is truly 
 a special game. The story is a typical save the world kind of thing, but the end of the game has 
 struck something deep inside of me. This game has been one of the best games I have played this 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro9kira
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game's graphics look amazing, the way they made the new water color painting thing going on 
 is awesome. . i love how they went back to the original 1989 game where you fought one enemy at 
 a time. it makes the battles more dramatic. the way you can go from one to the other without necessarily 
 having to follow the path set to you by creators as in levels is also a neat idea its not sand 
 box but a neat idea. they still set you a path way but you can choose to take that path way or 
 not. the difficulty is kind of missing . it depends on how you look at things. if you are used 
 to failure you will see that you will end up missing the game over screen. but if you look at the 
 somewhat bright side of things you are still punished when you fail. your enemies will gain health 
 or you will end up having to do the same acrobatic sequence from a safe point. but when you clear 
 a corrupted area and you see the corrupted world you were just on become clear world it kind of 
 pays of .from the difficulty being easy to get from point a to point b or c or what ever and the 
 fighting not being as long because the game over screen isn't there to buy the game some time also 
 makes the game short. not the original donkeykong short but more like 16+ hours of gameplay if 
 you are going for all the achievements/trophies in the game. the story is a good one but not as 
 well told as in the original sands of time. that's because if you really want to get more of the 
 story line you will have to interact with Elika. a nice addition but one that will take some getting 
 used to . speaking of Elika she is an amazing A. I that helps you with most of the thing even fighting. 
 she doesen't get in your way and is petty helpful she is an a. i friend that grows on you. that 
 said difficulty should not be the reason for any body to miss out on this good game. unless you 
 beat ninja gaiden on master ninja mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltatango5
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing like Assassin's Creed ... the overall look and feel is fair, but the challenge 
 factor is laughable! This game is way over-hyped for the billing it received! If you're interested 
 in a game with challenges at every turn, and creative and unique adventure and strategy ... this 
 game is not it. I was initially intrigued and after 2 hours ... it's the same old game over and 
 over again. Sorry, not a great game! I guess I was really expecting another "Assassin's Creed" 
 adventure game with a little bit of creativity instead of a boring story line and repetitive strategy.
 
  
 
  
  Good Luck kids and I hope you find something in this game that I was unable to find! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naked_snake07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  the new cell shaded graphics are stunning, the fight system is new and revolutionary, the free 
 running and acrobatics are flashy, and the environments are massive. everyone will find something 
 they like about this game.
  
  I was a little skeptical at first, being a die-hard fan of the sands of time trilogy, but if you 
 can get past the graphics, you will find this to be a great game, if you are a fan of any genre 
 of gaming.
  
  before this game, the only game i played for about 3 months was gears of war 2, and i mean, its 
 still my favorite game ever, but for me being a fan of shooters, Prince of Persia still makes the 
 top 5.
  
  The fight system has undergone a complete overhaul. This time, instead of fighting 20 enemies at 
 once and hacking and slashing through them, you fight one on one with enemies, and this can prove 
 to be very challenging at times. There is no health bar. if you get hit, the screen will pulse 
 red, much like in shooters like cod world at war.
  if you get hit before you heal, you will undergo a little cinematic in which you have to press 
 a certain button when it appears. if you fail, elika saves you, like she always will... 
  
  There is also an issue here...
  the button pressing cinematic means you will often see the same 
 animation SEVERAL times in one fight.
  
  However, if i do have one complaint, it is that the game is a little on the easy side, with no 
 option to dial up the difficulty. If not for that, i would have rated it a 10/10.
  
  overall it is a great game, good for both casual gamers and those more hardcore gamers. Very easy 
 to pick up and play, and almost any gamer will love. Be sure to ask Santa... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpo205
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is a amazing game, actually the best in the entire series. The game contains some 
 of the most greatest art direction graphics I ever saw in a videogame before. It has a remarkably 
 good sound system, great voice acting, nice music and environments sounding very much alive. Gameplay 
 in the acrobatics direction is basicly the same as previous titles, but with only a few new moves 
 to make it a bit more fun. Combat is revolutionary, feuturing Double-combat sequences wich you 
 pull of with Elika (your side-kick throughtout the game) . No need to worry, you wont have to babysit 
 this one all the time. Lastly the story, you take on the role of the prince who teams up with Elika 
 to save his kingdom, which is taken over by a dark, evil force.
  
  Expect one hell of a experience with PoP, A serious Must Buy.
  
  Graphics-10
  Sound-10
  
 Gameplay-10
  AI-10
  Story-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia : you know how it's become trendy in Hollywood to "reboot" franchises, throw 
 away all the backstory from the previous (and usually bad) sequels and start fresh? Batman did 
 it, James Bond did it, Star Trek is going to do it, The Incredible Hulk did it after only one bad 
 movie, and now we have a video game in Prince of Persia, which ignores the Sands of Time trilogy 
 or all of the quick death traps of the original game and starts anew. Oh, it's an action platformer 
 by the way.
  
  Story : The ever mystical "Prince" character gets lost in the desert and winds up in a mystical 
 land with a mystical woman who is trying to stop a mystical god from unleashing his mystical corruption 
 set out by the mystical woman's mystical dad and along the way stop the mystical god's four mystical 
 henchmen. The actual details about all thismystery, gradually unfolds in a methodical manner. 
 The Prince is a charming little jerk and mystical woman Elika plays off his arrogance quite nicely. 
 It's a change of pace to have a subtly-building chemistry that makes the player want to see them 
 get hitched instead of the two characters in question spontaneously making out like in every Hollywood 
 product. There's a surprising twist in the end and yes, there will be a sequel. We are talking 
 about a next-generation game after all, so of course there will be two more games.
  
  If a fantasy setting spectrum exists out there, this new Prince of Persia would be leaning more 
 towards Chronicles of Narnia than Aladdin, as opposed to all of this game's predecessors. Just 
 glancing the opening flourishes of magic energy that embrace the title screen, there's a bit of 
 a jarring disconnection that went through my mind as I found myself having to reluctantly drop 
 any previous expectations set by the Sands of Time. Even entering a code that transforms Elika 
 and the Prince into Farah and Sands of Time-Prince (I guess that's his name) wasn't enough, as 
 even these skins seemed too well-nourished to resemble their previous generation.
  
  Actually, the "unlearning" process does take a good deal of time to put up with. This new Prince 
 is an advocate of good fitness and proper nutrition as opposed to his skinny cousin, as he has 
 a much easier time latching on to ledges and platforms. Rather than struggle to make it across 
 a single wooden pole, the new Prince leaps from cliff to cliff with the greatest of ease, with 
 Elika there to offer an almost always successful double-jump maneuver.
  
  And there's death, or lack thereof. The sense of peril that came with the previous games, let alone 
 Prince of Persia games in general, is lost when you know that Elika will be able to catch you and 
 pull you to safety. The same thing happens in combat when you're about to meet your (no doubt-mysterious) 
 Maker when Elika flashes a light and helps you recover. Once again, Ubi Soft Montreal displays 
 their disdain at the notion of their main character dying (like with Assassin's Creed and Sands 
 of Time.) by coming up with a needlessly flashy system of death. But don't mistake that to mean 
 you'll just be able to beat the game through attrition over skill. Elika will only take you to 
 the last safe platform, and some areas will have you navigating large cliffs, slides and so forth 
 before you ever find solid ground. Also, enemies recover health when you die, so the game is at 
 least smart in disguising its punishment for failure. Likewise, being able to jump and plummet 
 anywhere knowing full well that a superpowered-supermodel will save you does at least open up some 
 room for taking chances.
  
  Bear with me as I try to describe the format of this adventure. Instead of a linear path from start 
 to finish, the game throws at you a somewhat-open world with a series of fountains that need to 
 be activated to purify the land of its corruption. Along the way, you'll jump, climb, shimmy, shuffle 
 and fall down a lot throughout the many elaborate platform sequences that the past games were known 
 for, expect the path doesn't feel as linear and forced as in those games. The other difference 
 is that there's a bit of a thrill in traversing large stretches of otherwise seemingly-impassible 
 territory as supposed to the slower, more meticulous struggle of past games. In a fairly intuitive 
 twist, the four face buttons are divided based on these basic utilities; sword, jump, claw, woman. 
 So, for example, you'll press the jump button to swing from poles, or the woman button to tell 
 Elika to save you.
  
  Once you reach a fountain, you fight one of four bosses that guard the region, followed by you 
 purifying the land and moving on to the next fountain.
  
  Now, in order to open up the number of fountains you can access, you're going to need revisit the 
 newly "purified" lands, which will have these blue orbs (light seeds, if you will) floating around 
 for you to collect in what's very much a cheap way to lengthen the gameplay. And you'll subsequently 
 need to use these orbs to unlock new and flashy but lame "powers". These powers only trigger when 
 you approach certain pads and consist of two "run real fast and avoid obstacle" mini-games and 
 two powers that are pretty much "you teleporting to other parts of the area in an otherwise forced 
 attempt to make the player gradually unlock the game world.
  
  And the combat is more flash than substance. Enemies appear on an infrequent and sometimes avoidable 
 basis, and the fundamentals of each one-on-one encounter is the same. You time your blocks to avoid 
 taking damage, and likewise time your attacks accordingly. The sword/jump/glove/woman format takes 
 form here in the form of attack combinations and it's admittedly very satisfying when you can juggle 
 your enemy in the air with sword and Elika attacks and just conveniently have the combo end with 
 a quick-time eventspeaking of, there sure are a ton of quick-time events within a single fight 
 and these can sometimes get bothersome when you frequently get too close to a cliff and have to 
 mash a button to stay alive. But being that fights are infrequent, you'll rarely find yourself 
 frustrated, especially once you've picked up on the ebb and flow of battle.
  
  Which is a recurring theme for my play time with Prince of Persia, actually. In any other game, 
 a play time-lengthening fetch quest and the same battles over and over again would be a score killer 
 in my books. But somehow, someway, Prince of Persia not only keeps things interesting but kept 
 me enthralled. Once I stopped mashing buttons and adapted to the pace, I allowed myself to get 
 pulled into the excited tug-of-war like struggle to deplete the enemy's health bar while avoiding 
 many, many close call quick time events. The light seed collecting suddenly became interesting 
 instead of monotonous, as it involved pulling off more of the game's dynamic platforming. Most 
 of the light seeds are in plain sight and you'll often find yourself collecting a bunch, only to 
 see more in the distance and talk yourself into gathering some more and exploring this beautiful 
 new landscape that was only recently bleak and desolate.
  
  Prince of Persia has that certain "it" factor to it. In fact it might actually have several "it" 
 factors. There's an "it" factor where you keep telling yourself "okay, I'll just play one more 
 level." There's an "it" factor where you find yourself pulled in as the Prince and Elika discuss 
 the backstory of each area, villain, proverb or likewise. There's an "it" factor where the worlds 
 around you, along with the beautiful music, conspire to immerse you into the experience. And there's 
 an "it" factor where you walk away from the shocking conclusion, completely blown away at what 
 you've just experienced.
  
  The game has flaws but they're cleverly disguised. This is the rare game that you'll want to savor 
 rather than plow through for the sake of moving on to the next game. There's about 10-12 hours 
 of solid gameplay to be had here, and I can guarantee you'll want to revisit this game later on. 
 This Prince of Persia redux is a keeper, folks. I can't think of the last game that truly hypnotized 
 me, and it's one of the few games this year where I didn't find myself disappointed in any aspect 
 of the game from beginning to end. If you want mindless twitch action, there are a hundred other 
 games waiting for you, but if you want a game that'll leave an impression on you for years to come, 
 well here you go.
  
  Pros : In the absence of anything else to say, I guess I'll bring up again the fact that there 
 are unlockable skins based on personas from Sands of Time, as well as Beyond Good and Evil and 
 Assassin's Creed.
  
  Cons: Unlocking them seems to require some kind of promotional code. I guess some of the Xbox achievements 
 are a bit frivolous in a way. You'll seem to be rewarded with 5 of them within the opening level.
 
  
  5 stars. The only release from 2008 to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Angel_14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  After lying dormant for 4 years, Ubisoft has ressurected and re-imagianed the "Prince of Persia" 
 for its first outing on the current set of consoles, with absolutely beautiful results.
  
  The first thing you will notice about the game is its distinctive and gorgeous visual style. The 
 game looks like painting, and using cell shading better than any game I have played yet. Along 
 with the cell shading, another thing that really stands out about the graphics is the use color. 
 Reds, blues, greens and yellows create a visual feast for the eyes, which is even more delicious 
 considering we live in an age were our eyes are starving off the monotonous use of greys and browns 
 found in mainstream shooters. 
  
  Prince of Persia's story revolves around a nameless young wanderer who, while looking for his lost 
 donkey in a sandstorm, runs into a mysterious young woman named Elika. After meeting, and agreeing 
 to help this young maiden the young man finds himself on a quest to undo a great evil set upon 
 the world in the form of corruption that is poisioning and tainting the land. So The "prince" and 
 Elika set out on a journey to rid this perversion from the land. The real hook of the story is 
 not the overcoming of the evil, but the relationship of the two on it and what happens within it. 
 Although the relationship between Elika and The Prince, and how the treat each other, almost seemed 
 to be trying to reclaim that emotional glory of Sands of Time, it still worked flawlessly, it still 
 came out to charm me and have me geniunly like and care for the characters.
  
  If you have played Prince of Persia before, you should know what to expect. Alot of running on 
 walls, jumping, flipping, sliding and other acts of acrobatic expertise, along with segments of 
 combat and puzzles. The puzzles and platforming is excellently executed, with the Prince flowing 
 gracefully through some absoltuly amazing looking levels. Although the formula still stands, and 
 in top form, there have been a couple formula changing aspects that completely morph the experience. 
 
  
  Mainly, the fact that in Prince of Persia, you can never die. If you fall off a cliff, Elika is 
 there to save you. If an enemy is about to chop you in two, Elika is there to save you. Although 
 this may inspire rage inside challenge w*ores, it really works well and is a clever replacment 
 for load screens and game overs, by serving the same purpose as a check point, minus those inconveniences. 
 This addition never makes the game overly challenging, but the game is still engrossing and you 
 do still feel that same sense of accomplishment when you surpass the games trickier sections.
 
  
  Along with this addition, is the modified take on combat. The reinvented combat both helps and 
 hinders the game. The idea was that removing the hordes of mindless minions from the game and replacing 
 them epic one on one duels would make combat a reward to gamers who found themselves in the throes 
 of combat, and they were half right. The one on one combat system works well, much better than 
 the hordes mentioned earlier, they add a sense of intensity that would be much more realistic for 
 a sword duel. Unfortunately the placing of awkward quick time events and health regeneration, while 
 attempting to spice up the combat, can at time just result in frustration.
  
  Even with this flaw, it is very minor. This game is art, everything about it from the gorgeous 
 visual to the flowing grace of the platforming itself. I can proudly say, without a second thought 
 that Prince of Persia is my favorite game released not just year, but this generation. I absolutely 
 love this game and only time can tell if it will makes its way into the ranks of The Legend of 
 Zelda and Shadow of the Colossus, but as it stands it sure does look like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotlazydaze
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Whilst the graphics are beautiful, the gameplay is terrible. There is nothing to do except run, 
 jump, run, jump, climb, jump etc yawn! Then you fight a baddie who is the same as the one before, 
 in the same situation as before. Then you run, jump, run, climb.. snooze!
  
  I honestly can't imagine how they could have made this game less interesting if they tried. The 
 route is set so there's no way to really go exploring. When you fall off something the princess 
 saves you and you have to watch this routine every time which made me want to hurt someone after 
 a while!
  
  Do NOT waste your money on this embarrassment of a game. It's like a bunch of visual artists designed 
 some scenerey and then at the last minute got in some complete novice of a coder in to turn it 
 into a game.
  
  In fact, this game is so bad I can't be bothered to finish it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonic_reaper
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Loved the game. Yes, it did take me ages to finish, but with games like these I actually like to 
 admire the environment of the game itself. This kinda helps imagine the time and dedication spent 
 on the game at its creation. 
  It does keep faithful to the 'Prince of Persia' style of game-play and puzzles. I would have liked 
 it better if the storyline connected to the previous games, but it would probably taint the magic 
 of playing this one. Nevertheless, I do like the way everything is portrayed and how everything 
 fits into place even though it has no relation to its previous versions.
  The game does have its drawbacks, for example, there are a few things missing like the puzzles 
 are a bit more challenging than the ones experienced previously but the difference in difficulty 
 is so small that you can hardly notice. There are a few glitches as well (especially at the windmill 
 level) . There is something missing that could make the game more enjoyable, but it still remains 
 a mystery to me.
  Overall, this game makes you want to sit around and play some more -if you've got time- and even 
 if you finish it, you'll eventually find yourself wanting to play it again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihateyoureyes
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  This is the first review i've written and I thought this game needed it because of the highly misleading 
 critic and user scores. 
  
  I'll start with the GOOD aspects:
  
  1) Landscapes
  - All of the places you encounter are beautiful created
  - Gamespot calls this "beautiful art 
 direction"
  
  2) Combos
  - With the use of 'Elika' and the 'Acobatic' button you can pull of some amazing looks moves
 
  
  Now for the BAD aspects that ruin this game:
  
  1) Linear
  - Why would you make a game where all you do is jump, spin, and fly around but have to do it in 
 a straight line?
  
  2) Boring
  - Based upon how linear the game is
  - You have one - three fights only in a town, the rest of the time you spend performing acrobatic 
 maneuvers
  - The maneuvers become boring after about an hour of gameplay
  
  3) Voice Acting
  - The voice acting of the lead character is humiliating 
  
  4) Difficulty 
 
  - You cannot die, enough said?
  
  5) Combat Mechanics
  - You can only sidestep in combat and you move really slow
  - This makes for annoying battles
 
  
  The game would be much improved if they did not base it entirely on the fact that you can do neat 
 jumps around the levels. The landscapes should not be as linear and allow you more freedom to roam 
 while encountering more enemies (not just boss and miniboss fights) . The game got boring for me 
 once I beat the first town, I was expecting a lot more from this game. Don't waste your money by 
 purchasing this game, I rented it and was disappointed. There are much better titles that have 
 just been released, fallout 3, gears of war 2, fable 2, and call of duty: world at war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevegotjob
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Ive played all the prince of persia games, including the side scrollers, the PS2 games etc etc, 
 and i am not disapointed at all. Ubisoft took the game into a new direction, and who knows the 
 next may be completely different than this one, i like the fact that its not cookie cutter.
  
  The gamespot review is right about the camera being too tight in battles, it limits the play 
 a little too much. They are also right about the ease of passing this game. Yet there is something 
 that they missed.
  
  who has actually gotten the 1001 light seeds? Im up to 890 or so and its been a lot more difficult 
 collecting those than actually playing the game. Collecting all the seeds is a difficult task, 
 it takes a lot of exploration and time, a lot more than people are willing to give this game.
 
  
  Overall:
  Pros-The game is so artistic, its got a nice story, good dialogue (even if its cheese at times) , 
 great animation, great ending.
  
  Con- A little easy to simply pass without exploration
  
  I actualy give it a 8.8 but the review thing only alows increments of .5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Looks absolutely amazing; combat and platforming are both fun and easy; great story with 
 a twist that you won't see coming; a top notch script; voice acting is incredible; smooth animation; 
 a long journey that'll take around 12 hours.
  
  The Bad: Platforming issues; very easy, considering you can't actually die.
  
  Prince of Persia: 
 The Sands of Time really made a name for itself in last gen. After releasing two sequels, the Prince 
 of Persia series really stood out compared to other platformers on the market. However, the series 
 was made to be a trilogy, and after the end of Prince of Persia: The Two Thrones (The last entry 
 in the series) , the series faded away into the sands of time. 
  
  The studio began making a new series, Assassin's Creed, which bought in a lot of cash and good 
 reviews... however, fans could only dream of another Prince of Persia after seeing the acrobatics 
 of Altair, the nimble assassin in Assassin's Creed. Their dreams have finally come true... and this 
 is one dream that you won't want to wake up from.
  
  While searching for his donkey, Farah (who happens to be carrying a king's ransom in gold) , the 
 Prince falls down a cliff where he runs into Elika, a runaway princess with mystical powers. After 
 saving Elika from her father's henchmen, the Prince is taken to a beautiful hidden kingdom which 
 supposedly houses an ancient evil known as Ahriman. Ahriman is the god of darkness who is sealed 
 within an ancient tree. Elika's father finds her and the Prince and cuts the ancient tree in half, 
 releasing Ahriman (you'll gradually find out why Elika's father did this and what his motives were 
 as you play through the game) . 
  
  Ahriman is still trapped in the temple that housed the ancient tree. However, he's able to spread 
 a strange darkness, called corruption, over the entire kingdom. After escaping the temple with 
 the help of the Prince, Elika comes to the conclusion that she must use her mystical powers to 
 purge every part of the land of corruption. The Prince, who constantly complains throughout the 
 journey, has no choice but to help Elika restore her abandoned kingdom to its natural beauty.
 
  
  The story is passable, and provides enough incentive to keep pushing forward. It's especially interesting 
 towards the end where everything comes together in an unexpected way. What really makes the story 
 so interesting is the characters. Though there are only around ten or so major characters, each 
 one is given attitude and emotion that make them feel wholly realistic.
  
  The Prince is an especially interesting character. His attitude is reminiscent of a modern day 
 New Yorker. Some may think that this is a bad thing, but he does provide the comic relief that 
 is needed for the serious story. Elika helps balance out the Prince perfectly. Where as the Prince 
 is sarcastic and seldom serious, Elika is all about stopping Ahriman no matter what the cost. However, 
 as she spends time with the Prince she begins to lighten up... a little. 
  
  What makes the characters so amazing has to be the excellent voice acting coupled with a well written 
 script. Each line is delivered with emotion and attitude, resulting in some of the best voice acting 
 that you'll hear this year.
  
  One of the main focuses of Prince of Persia is platforming (jumping from thing to thing) . Ubisoft 
 nailed platforming with Assassin's Creed, but here, things have been dumbed down a bit. If you 
 see horizontal scratches on a wall, then you do a wall run. If you see vertical scratches, then 
 you climb the wall. If there's a chasm you can't jump across by yourself, then you use Elika's 
 powers to give you more distance. It's all very straightforward, but each stunt that the Prince 
 can perform is visually satisfying and they're all strung together in such a way that make the 
 Prince a quick and nimble hero... as long as you press the right buttons! However, one strange thing 
 about platforming is, if you mess up, you don't die. Elika is there to save you every time. Of 
 course, this is just a clever way to disguise the transfer from death to your previous checkpoint, 
 but it makes things seem incredibly easy... which is good if your new to video games... I guess. 
 
  
  After purging a land, these things called light seeds appear. Light seeds give Elika power, and 
 when you collect enough of them, Elika gets a new power that opens up new areas. There are only 
 four powers to obtain, and you have to collect a large number of light seeds to get them. It's 
 your choice on which powers you want first. These powers range from running vertically up to the 
 top of buildings and towers and flying through the air while dodging various obstacles. These different 
 powers blend in with your platforming abilities quite nicely, and provide some unique moments that 
 you won't see in your average platformer. 
  
  Combat is the other focus of Prince of Persia, and, unlike platforming, it's lets you experiment 
 a bit more. You'll only face one enemy at a time in combat, and each one is basically the same 
 besides the bosses.. The Prince is able to use his sword to attack and block, his gauntlet (for 
 grab attacks) , acrobatic attacks and Elika for some magical combos. These different attacks can 
 be mixed to create some spectacular looking, though relatively simple combos.
  
  Combat is satisfying, and there's also some quick-time events that demand a lot of button mashing 
 or pressing of a single button very quickly. Every quick-time event is visually impressive and 
 provides interesting combat situations. However, as in platforming, you can't die. If you make 
 a mistake Elika is always there to save the Prince from death. Again, it's easy... maybe a bit too 
 easy. 
  
  The gameplay altogether is great. There's a lot of unique moments in both platforming and combat, 
 and a lot of fun to be had while playing as the Prince. It's really easy, but the extreme ease 
 doesn't detract too much from the main adventure. 
  
  Few games are able to reach the visual flair that the Prince of Persia has achieved. This is cell-shaded 
 graphics at their best, and you'll be hard pressed to find a game that looks this amazing. When 
 you heal a land from corruption for the first time... it's simply breathtaking. 
  
  The music in this game is amazing. It provides a majestic and adventurous orchestral score when 
 traveling through the healed lands, and when you enter into corrupted territory, the music becomes 
 ominous and foreboding. It's a very interesting blend of music that will make you recognize the 
 beauty that is Prince of Persia. 
  
  The sound effects are also impressive, but they mostly range from hearing the Prince and Elika 
 landing on the ground from a long fall and using handles to extend their run across large gaps. 
 Still, they sound good and don't detract from the beautiful music.
  
  You're looking at a little less than twelve hours of gameplay. Considering Prince of Persia has 
 no online functionality, twelve hours is quite long. However, with the only unlockable content 
 being new skins for the Prince and Elika ( There's an Altair costume that's unlockable, and a couple 
 of other costumes) you can't expect a lot of extras or bonus content. This means that Prince of 
 Persia is the perfect rental 
  
  Altogether, Prince of Persia is one amazing package. Sure, it's easy and straightforward, but the 
 massive scale, the beautiful art design and orchestral score are reason enough to take part in 
 the Prince's newest adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maestroh
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  If this was the first game in the revamped "Prince of Persia" series I'd probably love it. The 
 controls and the character's movements are fluid and the way he can run up & across walls is unbelievable. 
 
  
  The problem is, these things are only one part of what made this series great. The others were 
 fighting, puzzle solving, and traps. And all three of these have been diminished or taken out completely.
 
  
  Fighting is nearly non-existent. The fights that are included are button mashers against the same 
 2 or 3 enemies repeated. The puzzles are lame & repetetive. The traps are more eye-candy than anything 
 else. Often when you complete a chain of traps you really only have to time the first one perfectly 
 because there is no room to make adjustments once you're in motion. 
  
  So basically what the game boils down to is just running around and jumping obstacles. And even 
 THAT is boring because the difficulty never increases. There's a legend of zelda-esque "complete 
 one objective to open a new area" thing going on here, which is good, but the producers missed 
 the point and made it so you can choose which new area to open randomly. This completely defeats 
 the purpose of even having this system in place because the difficulty never increases.
  
  My theory on what happened with this game is that the designers got so caught up in how good it 
 looked, and how fluid the jumping around obstacles was, that they forgot to add the other things 
 that made this series great, and assumed it would get by on the strength of climbing alone.
  
  If you haven't played the series before - you'll probably enjoy it. If you have, you'll be 
 in for a dissappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozman_Beyond
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Well I got the game the day it hit and was like I can't wait to do some of that wonderful fighting 
 that we all have enjoyed. Well number one thing that bugged the crap out of me was the no challenge 
 for achievements every time you did something you suppose to do you got one, lame! As I was playing 
 I was like were are all the baddies then I came across one and was told how to fight thats when 
 my jaw just dropped I could not believe they took away the free form fighting, NOOOOO! Thats when 
 the game just lost me. Yes all the other fun stuff was still there, running, jumping and climbing 
 but no fighting come on thats what made this series so great. Well if you don't mind being told 
 how to play the game then buy at your own risk. I will say graphically it was eye pleasing but 
 I still prefer Sands of Time and Two Thrones over this one any day for its game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is great if you're looking for an easy and fun platforming experience, but if 
 you are looking for a challenge, it is probably best to look elsewhere. 
  
  The game looks really, really nice. It plays out very much like a 2D platformer, but in a three 
 dimensional open world. The gameplay is somewhat reminiscent of Ico, although not as obscure of 
 puzzles to solve. The puzzle solving in Prince of Persia is easy in general. Correction; Prince 
 of Persia is easy in general.
  
  The fact that there is absolutely no death (that is, you never die) in the entire game. This makes 
 for little to no frustration, but it also contributes to the game's extremely low difficulty.
 
  
  All in all, Prince of Persia is a really solid game. It delivers a good amount of play time, although 
 not as much replay value. It doesn't have that little extra to push it to being a superb title, 
 but it is still a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rshaver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  People rest your trigger fingers and, for the time being, try to remove any angst you might have 
 about an  jumping out at you from around the corner 
 because there, thank God, aren't any in this game.
  
  Prince of Persia is a true-to-heart, old school game. You jump. You grab. You swing a sword. You 
 double jump. You explore. You fight bosses. And you collect 'lightseeds' that, strangely, are strategically 
 placed all throughout the game (like gold coins!) . Oh, and the best part is you have a hot princess, 
 Elika, along for the ride...
  
  POP is a departure from what you're used to this year so brace yourself. It's not a  
 gun-slinging, blood-splattering, finger-numbing experience. This game is chill. And I love it.
 
  
  In the beginning... Prince starts off trudging through a sandstorm in the desert... funny how every 
 hero ever trudging through a desert happens to hit a sandstorm and loses something. Prince loses 
 Farah (not the princess from the old games, idiot, his donkey... pretty clever, Ubisoft... I mean, 
 I know for a fact if something happened to my former true love, I'd totally name my donkey after 
 her to constantly remind me of the pain...) . Anyway, you soon encounter a hot chick wearing a doily 
 being chased by guards in the middle of nowhere... don't worry, sounds cheezy but it all comes 
 together once you realize her father is the one looking for her.
  
  OK, I'm wasting time... cut to the chase, you end up in a Temple (surprise!) where by some unfortunate 
 string of events the evil God, Ahriman, is released (Elika's father turns out to be a mild retard 
 and cuts down the glowing tree that apparently keeps him trapped underground... that's how I took 
 it anyway) and within seconds engrosses the entire land in darkness and, even better, dark goo 
 (the weird stuff kinda points at you as you pass it, it's pretty creepy) .
  
  And so, Prince is called to adventure. Forgetting all about his ex-girfriend-named-donkey, he opts 
 to join the hottie on her quest to save the land from dark goo. I agree with his decision as a 
 chance for some sweet punani in the middle of a barren desert is probably worth more than the gold 
 his donkey is allegedly carrying anyhow. And she won't let you get hurt... unlike your real-life 
 princess.
  
  You will find yourself immediately taking a liking to both main characters. Their banter, personalities, 
 abilities and immediate bond (both 'personally' and 'professionally') really do engross you in 
 their (your) story right off the go. Some game sites (i. e. all of them) are claiming Prince is 
 a prick but I completely disagree. He's facetious and a bit sarcastic. So is Elika and their conversations 
 are funny and flirtatious without being annoying. Ubisoft did an amazing job creating likeable 
 and relatable characters that you actually want to get to know from the moment you meet them.
 
  
  Creative/Graphics:
  
  This game is hot. It's no Gears of War 2 and it's no Resistance 2 but it is, in it's own right, 
 a true work of art and, in my opinion, a needed experience. Don't make the mistake of not experiencing 
 the subtleties of the art in this game. Every area I've been so far has deserved a hike up a few 
 random obstacles to get a better view of what lies ahead. Literally perching on a pillar and taking 
 in the landscapes and attention to details (and consistency) in the artwork of absolutely everything 
 in the game. The animation of the characters is phenomenal and made me think I could, given a gauntlet, 
 a sword, a stupid head-scarf and a hot magic-wielding partner, wall climb or long jump 27 feet. 
 Hey kids, try it at home!
  
  One of my favorite (and almost immediate) rewards in the game was watching an 'area' transition 
 from darkness to a healthy green landscape after Elika heals the 'fertile ground' within. It's 
 an immediate sense of satisfaction, a new reason to explore that area in it's entirety (all the 
 fancy-glowing-lightseeds become available in that area when it's healed) and is so much more rewarding 
 than cutting some douchebag alien's head off with a lancer or dink-punching some Japanese Kamikaze 
 soldier before slicing his throat open... seriously, we need more games like POP.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This game is not difficult to play. I doubt it will be difficult to master either 
 but that is why it's so much fun. There is something simply satisfying about being able to understand 
 your character (s) and their abilities upon first imposing on their world.
  
  POP does give you options. There are a lot of combos you can unlock and perfect as time goes on. 
 The 'combo tree' in your options menu is absolutely stellar and I can only hope games to follow 
 borrow a page from this book. The animations while performing these combos, I imagine, will never 
 get old. I'm excited to receive my achievement for a 14-hit combo as I can only imagine how kick-butt 
 that fight will be, if not completely one-sided.
  
  You never die. Elika will save you every single time and she sounds like she is sincerely concerned 
 about you when she does. If I have one minor complaint about this game it's that I don't need to 
 see the  cutscene every... single... time.... I fall.
 
  
  Actually, one other small complaint. It is annoying that you cannot DROP to a platform below, even 
 though it seems a lot more 'realistic' than jumping around the room for 10 minutes to get to the 
 same spot... maybe you can train Elika to just let go this once. I can double-jump across a void 
 the likes of the Grand Canyon but I can't drop 16 feet onto a platform below? Seriously, just let 
 me go!
  
  The 'world' map is easy to understand and well plotted. One of my biggest tick-offs in a video 
 game is a useless map (uh, Fable 2) and I love how simple and easy to use the map in POP is. I 
 also have to say I'm impressed how they've tied the map into the 'physical' world; it's actually 
 introduced as sort of a healing ground at the base of the Temple Elika interacts with to figure 
 out where to go. Well done, Ubisoft. Oh, and the areas are massive. I can't wait to just explore 
 the game looking for lightseeds.
  
  You can go anywhere you want, anytime you want. I spent over an hour exploring the many levels 
 of the game just to see where I would be going in adventures to come... you can't 'heal' all of 
 these areas anytime you want. You do need to 'finish this before that' which might get annoying 
 but does give a healthy sense of progression and structure to the game.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  So I guess I should wrap this up. I've read a couple reviews where some peeps are 'disappointed' 
 that this game doesn't appeal to the hardcore gaming crowd. I haven't disagreed with something 
 more since my girlfriend's decision to bring home a puggle puppy... Elaborate imaginative levels, 
 useless collectibles, platforming at it's finest and a few puzzles to boot. So, if by 'hardcore' 
 they mean monotonous alien-infested shooters, then they're correct. If they mean gamers who have 
 a true appreciation for what video games are and where they came from, then they are wrong. I've 
 been gaming for over 20 years and I am truly excited about what POP is going to be.... a rare gem 
 of a game that I will blow the dust off the Xbox 360 in 10 years from now to play through again.
 
  
  Brought to you by www. shave-reviews. com. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjmb
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Ok, maybe if you have never played Prince of persia before, you'll find this game amazing.
  
  But, for us, veteran players, we'd like to ask Ubisoft WHY...
  
  WHY THEY CHANGED ALL GOOD 
 THINGS THAT MADE PRINCE OF PERSIA ONE OF THEIR BEST SELLERS?
  
  Well, first of all, the speed of the game has changed... It's almost as if you play POP in Slow 
 motion...
  
  Oh, and also the battle is like slow motion.
  
  The free scenario, open world and all, is boring... We can only decide where to go, but then, we 
 must go... So, I don't fell like freedom in this game.
  
  It's just like a copy of Mario 64... Or Banjo Kaz...
  
  The graphics are awesome indeed... 
 But wich game on Xbox 360 is ugly? none.
  The story... well, it's just like Sinbad cartoon. Or something like that...
  Instead of changing 
 everything, why they didn't made a remake of the original trilogy? It would have been a lot better.
 
  
  But, i'm just mad with UBI, because I love their games.
  And I'll keep playing this prince of persia, but not with the same pleasure I played all others 
 (since old Pc-DOS game, Dreamcast Arabian Nights, and POP sands, warrior within and two thrones...) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicmj1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:32 pm PT
Review:  With the latest Prince of Persia, Ubisoft has attempted a full reboot of the franchise, removing 
 the characters and setting of the critically-loved Sands of Time trilogy. They've replaced it with 
 a very different beast, far more fantastical and mythical in terms of story and setting, and more 
 open and forgiving in terms of design. Some of those decisions hamper the game's ambitions, but 
 anyone who loves exploring an immaculately detailed world will find something to like here. 
  
  The new protagonist of the franchise is known as the Prince, but he's no royalty. A wandering 
 vagabond, he is swept up in the quest of a princess of a dying civilization, Elika. Her people 
 were tasked ages ago with guarding the prison of a dark god, yet he is in imminent danger of escaping. 
 To refasten his shackles, Elika and the Prince must journey to 24 Fertile Grounds scattered throughout 
 the surrounding land. By purifying them, the god will be sealed away, and the world will be safe. 
 
  
  The task sounds somewhat repetitive, and, in truth, it is. The player is given a lot of freedom 
 as to which order they choose to purify the grounds, limited only by what magical abilities they 
 have available to them. New magical abilities are purchased with light seeds, which can only be 
 gathered from a purified area. The player must first platform to the location of the ground. Once 
 there, they must contend with one of four bosses that the game possesses, each boss unique to its 
 area. Upon defeating the boss, the area is purified. Then, the player gathers light seeds set around 
 the environment, and goes on to a new location to repeat the process. 
  
  The repetition is reinforced by the nature of the platforming. The environments clearly choreograph 
 the platforming challenges ahead. A marked wall ought to be run upon, done by simply pressing A 
 in the direction of the wall. Messes of vines are climbed. Columns, beams, and poles are jumped 
 across. Rings are grabbed to extend various runs. Since the platforming is so automated, by recognizing 
 the various signs across the landscape, a player can easily navigate a complex string of platforms 
 with very few button presses. If there is any difficulty involved in the platforming, it is a result 
 of habits formed by the player, expecting the game to require more of him, rather than the game 
 itself being hard. 
  
  Yet despite the repetition and ease of the platforming, or the straightforward (yet flashy) combat, 
 the game remains inviting and fun to play. The world, rendered in a style close to cell-shading, 
 looks lush and colorful, especially once purified, and is a joy to behold. And even if the platforming 
 is straightforward, once the player gets a feel for it, it takes on a bouncy, propulsive rhythm 
 that is exhilarating. The openness of the world also has a constant string of new objectives that 
 push the player forward. There were times where I spent far longer than I expected playing, just 
 in order to get a few more light seeds, or clear one more ground. 
  
  Alongside the challenges you face, there is the game's story, focused on the relationship between 
 the Prince and Elika. Elika is a strong, driven female character, very capable and very focused. 
 The conversations she has with the prince along the way demonstrate this. She also is a constant 
 asset in your play, saving you from death (you can't really "die", per se, though there are setbacks 
 for messing up) , and showing you the path to your next destination. With the way she follows along 
 behind you as you platform, you sometimes get the sense that she would be perfectly capable of 
 accomplishing her task without you there. 
  
  The Prince is a more divisive figure, attempting to be the sort of smart-alecky, selfish kind of 
 hero, similar to Harrison Ford's portrayal of Han Solo. Sometimes, he's a bit too cynical and cheeky 
 for his own good, but he and Elika develop a nice working relationship. They're not necessarily 
 in it for the same reasons, but they respect each other, and grow to depend on each other. 
  
  The story is developed alongside the game through a few short required dialogues, as well as 
 a plethora of optional conversations that the player can trigger along the way. These are nice, 
 but the non-linear nature of the game means that the relationship between the Prince and Elika 
 feels somewhat static. It can't really develop forward easily, because any area can be accessed 
 at nearly any time. As a result, around midway through the game, it sort of plateaus, and the lack 
 of forward momentum there dampens the impact of a surprisingly bold ending. Similarly, the platforming 
 challenges show their hand very early on, and with the exception of a few puzzles and interesting 
 challenges, the player is going through the same motions ten hours in as they are three hours in. 
 
  
  My review may have sounded very negative, but I very much enjoyed my time with the game. Despite 
 its many issues, I greatly enjoyed exploring the environments, and even if the platforming was 
 easy, it was never completely tiresome. The beautifully rendered world is a joy to behold and be 
 a part of, and it really shines as the game's strength. Ubisoft's presentational mastery takes 
 center stage here, and if moving through a well-realized environment is more important to you than 
 challenging gameplay, you'll find much to love here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7hir7een
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  PRESENTATION -- 10
  
  If there's one sure thing about this game, it is that it is beautiful. Prince of Persia is truly 
 a work of art, and a masterful one at that. It will wow you with it's cel-shaded graphics, and 
 draw you in with its beautiful and intricate level design. The game could almost be considered 
 a running cutscene. The platforming is smooth, the battles cinematic, and the levels always gorgeous. 
 When you fire this game up, it is truly like you are playing a book. Prince of Persia is a masterfully 
 presented fairy tale that will draw you in until it's done, and even then, may not lose its grasp 
 on you.
  
  GRAPHICS -- 9.5
  
  Again, the cel-shaded graphics and intricately-designed, well-flowing levels of the game are simply 
 beautiful. However, there are a few small (and I do mean tiny) caveats. There are some noticeable 
 jaggies if you look really hard, and it is a bit too dark in a couple of areas. I can remember 
 three areas where I really had trouble seeing where to go next (the temple at the beginning, the 
 first alchemist area, and one of the green plate sequences later in the alchemist's domain) , but 
 they were remedied by turning the brightness up or standing up to play level with my LCD television. 
 And, of course, once you get past that one little dark patch, the rest looks fine. There was also 
 a graphical glitch with the corruption. I once ended up with corruption stuck on the prince from 
 where he had been grabbed in a boss fight. But a simple reload cleared that right up.
  
  SOUND -- 10
  
  I love the soundtrack for this game. The music is wonderful, and really just 
 fits. The game is a cinematic experience, so the movie-type epic-feeling music works really well. 
 The score certainly adds to the game, and doesn't detract from it in the least. The only bad thing 
 I could say about it is that the soundtrack with the collector's edition didn't include all the 
 songs!
  
  GAMEPLAY -- 9.5
  
  While it is certain that the game is pleasing on the eyes, I feel the gameplay also shines. I enjoy 
 that the game focuses more on the platforming than the combat. In a game where you have to heal 
 areas to dispense with the corruption, it seems fitting that there are only a few major fights. 
 And because the battles are so cinematic, the relatively small number of battles fits. Whenever 
 you participate in a fight, it will look like a boss fight. Even the grunts are encountered and 
 dispatched in the same cinematic matter as the bosses themselves. It is strangely satisfying when 
 you are able to survive the lethal quick-time button events with the bosses, and even more satisfying 
 to beat a boss once the game starts throwing the altered states at you. The changed states unlock 
 as you progress through the game, making it so that, temporarily, only one of your four main attacks 
 and its combo derivatives will be able to harm the creature. The camera locks on to the enemy during 
 battle sequences, which can sometimes feel confining. While it works for 90% of the situations, 
 it can be slightly annoying when you have to get to an unconscious Elika to make her get back up, 
 or when it is necessary to use the environment against an enemy.
  
  The presence of Elika really helps make the game. She is an extension of the prince in every way. 
 She is that extra lift you need to perform a double jump, the connector for performing long combos, 
 your GPS, and your reload function, all wrapped up into one cute little companion package. To me, 
 the story that develops between the prince and Elika is really a strong suit of the game. But you 
 have to talk to Elika, and pay attention to what they say and the feelings behind it. If you don't 
 pay any attention to the increasing emotional investment between the two, you might feel a little 
 taken aback by the ending of the game. Going back to Elika's gameplay functions, though, you as 
 the player will be really glad to have her. She acts as a directional system for the prince, should 
 you choose to use her. While some may gripe about this function, I believe the developers deemed 
 it necessary so that they wouldn't have to put a marker or map on the heads-up display. Anyone 
 who has seen screenshots or videos of the game can see that the developers really wanted to minimize 
 the HUD, and with good reason. This reason is the reason I believe that not having "Oops, you died. 
 Try again?" screens is perfect for this game-it is an immersive experience. Having a map or marker 
 system, or intermittent "Try again?" screens would really detract from the "playing a book" feel 
 of the gameplay.
  
  As for the prince, so long as you aren't expecting the prince from the previous Prince of Persia 
 trilogy, you should enjoy him. He is a new prince, but I believe he is a good one. He seems to 
 take a page from many of the main movie characters who are out there right now. For instance, he 
 reminds me a lot of Jack Sparrow. His snarky dialogue and mannerisms make him someone you're interested 
 in playing, if only because you want to see what he'll say next. His dialogues with Elika, whether 
 through gameplay (especially the things they say when she saves you) or cutscenes, are genuinely 
 entertaining, and contribute to the whole experience of the game.
  
  Many have complained about the ease of the gameplay. People are put off by the fact that you can't 
 die, that the prince doesn't gain new combos, and that you never get new weapons. I'm here to tell 
 you that it doesn't really matter. While the game may be easy by most people's standards, that's 
 not to say that it isn't rewarding. The game succeeds in leaving you with a feeling of accomplishment 
 when you make it through an area rife with corruption, defeat its respective boss, and cleanse 
 it. Being able to see the transformation of the land and then traverse it without the corruption 
 interfering is a great experience. Once you heal the land, you are able to collect light seeds, 
 which are eventually used to unlock new "powers" for Elika. Although some may consider it a chore, 
 I found light seed collection to be a nice little mini-game to the game. Figuring out how to get 
 to those last few tricky light seeds was fun and rewarding, and it's nice to be able to be a completionist-you 
 can get all of the light seeds so long as you have some patience and a sharp eye. Which reminds 
 me, I love that the game doesn't have object fading with distance like some games have. If you 
 missed a couple of light seeds in a certain place in one area of the world, you can see them from 
 the adjacent area if they're in your line of sight. But, anyway, after collecting a certain number 
 of light seeds, you unlock Elika's ability to use certain colored plates. Each one of the plates 
 triggers some sort of magical power-the red and blue both essentially send you flying through the 
 directly to the next plate, wall, or platform in the sequence, but are visually unique, the green 
 allows you to climb on the walls and ceilings while avoiding obstacles, and the yellow literally 
 lets you fly through a kind of "on-rails" sequence that gets you to your destination, provided 
 you don't crash into a wall. It really speaks to the greatness of the third-person camera in the 
 game that these sequences never feel awkward. While the green and yellow plate sequences can be 
 tricky due to no foreknowledge of the locations of the obstacles, they are quite manageable so 
 long as you have good reflexes and obstacle recognition.
  
  LASTING APPEAL -- 9.0
  
  Prince of Persia lasts approximately 10-12+ hours, depending on your use of the teleport and directional 
 functions, and depending on your dedication to collecting the light seeds. The game itself doesn't 
 offer much in the way of replay value in the sense that other games do. You don't unlock new difficulty 
 levels. However, you do unlock skins for the prince and Elika that may enrich your second, or third, 
 or higher playthrough should you choose to use them. But even though the game does not directly 
 facilitate replays, except perhaps through unlockable achievements, I don't think it means that 
 it isn't worth doing so. This game is a masterful fairy tale, one that you will want to pick up 
 in another few weeks or months to experience all over again.
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE -- 9.5
  
  So long as you are willing to accept that this game, in many ways, is not an extension of the 
 previous Prince of Persia series, and that certain gameplay features and mechanics were added or 
 changed to add to the immersiveness of this fanciful experience, this game will not disappoint. 
 You'll appreciate the story this game tells, and enjoy every minute of the platforming and healing 
 the lands of corruption.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyb628
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. A lot. It's really easy, but just plain fun. The game looks amazing, cel shading 
 is awesome, and the characters movements are fluid and look very nice. The environments are great 
 and I love fertilizing each environment to make it come to life. The controls are great, very easy 
 to get used to and are very responsive. The characters make me want to keep playing to see what's 
 going to happen next between the Prince and the Princess. The story is cool and the adventures 
 you have to get to the end can be quite epic. The boss fights are engaging and get more involved 
 as you progress through the game. The music fits this game perfectly and is very beautiful; it 
 adds that extra touch to make exploring and finding orbs that much more.
  
  Buy it!
  
  PS. This review didn't have much thought put into it, but I just wanted to give a general overview 
 of how I felt about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChuckE_Cheese
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  the thing about prince of persia that struck me the most is that its amazing visual presentation. 
 the whole world is beautiful to look at, it's worth to look upon and appreciate what ubisoft has 
 done here. the camera is also design for user-friendliness, making the angles and point of views 
 both stunning and exhilarating. the combat system is also unique, quick time events are used frequently 
 on the one on one battles. one thing that i would like to point out is that the game force you 
 to have a strong relationship with elika. as long as you progress through the story, your affection 
 with each other will grow
  
  Bad:
  prince of persia may have less replay value, but this is a must-play. other than that i couldn't 
 find any more flaws. there are minor glitches that doesn't get in the way of enjoying the game. 
 the whole game is incredibly easy, easy enough to make you spoiled and sloppy. death is the least 
 of your problems. it's hard to believe that this vast kingdom can be completed and swept in 10-20 
 hours of gameplay.
  
  Overall:
  true, the prince is different from the one from sands of time, and his origin is unknown. but the 
 coming of this new character is somewhat immersive, concerning that this prince has his own ways 
 to entertain gamers through his charms and humor. though you're jumping and flying around in a 
 deserted and corrupted kingdom, you will never be lonely. elika will always be there for you to 
 fulfill your every needs and save you everytime you are in the verge of death. this new prince 
 of persia might not be the best, but it's certainly caught my eye and deffnitely deserve to be 
 in my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia. A title most recognize. From it's NES days in 1989 to the present day ones, it 
 has wowed gamers who have gotten their hands on it. A whole new story, Prince, supporting character, 
 a whole new, fresh, brilliant game in the series! Lost in a sandstorm, a traveling vagabond, lusting 
 for gold and riches, wanders into a predicament he would never have thought to be in. Searching 
 for his donkey "carrying a king's ransom in gold," inconspicuously named, Farah, he has a fall 
 in with a beautiful girl, a princess, Elika. A key component in the game is Elika, from the story 
 to even the gameplay, she plays as big a role as the Prince, although only the Prince, not she, 
 is playable. You'll use her everywhere from traversing an area acrobatically to doing combos in 
 battle with her, she is heavily important. The other side is the Prince. He is very interesting 
 and, as previously stated, a greedy traveler. He can do a wealth of crazy, gravity-defying acrobatics 
 to get through the world he was thrown into, leading into the story. This story is Epic! It immerses 
 you instantly and is extremely well-written. The dialogue and voice acting is some of the best 
 to date, easily! The graphics, a new style in gaming, vividly shows off what it can do! It's like 
 playing in a big, Persian painting! Aside from all of this, the gameplay is fluent, amazing, fun, 
 etc., running on the Assassin's Creed engine, is everything you could have wanted it to be. This 
 game was hyped, but, extremely, extremely rare that it met it's expectations! I really, really 
 enjoyed the campaign and will play it in years to come. With the achievements, a few actually difficult, 
 you'll have a few play-throughs to obtain them as well. All in all, a 10 doesn't actually justify 
 how good a PoP game this is! It's, in my opinion, the best one to date! Montreal knows their Prince 
 of Persia!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics, Game, and Character Designs: 10/10
  Story: 10/10
  Voice Acting: 10/10
  Replay Value: 9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therealryu
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I fell in love with the first POP game as soon as I experienced the amazing acrobatics and compelling 
 story on the Super Nintendo. Surprisingly, it only got better with the sequels as the combat greatly 
 improved and the story introduced cool gameplay ideas (Dahaka chases, evil prince, chain swinging 
 with the evil prince etc.) 
  
  When I watched the trailers for this current gen POP I crapped my pants. I was so excited that 
 one of my favorite franchises was coming back and better yet it looked like it was back with some 
 fresh ideas (single enemy combat, claw wallrunning, magical partner instead of time travel) 
  
  The day this came out I raced to the store with my friend, picked it up and started playing. 
 Instantly I was disappointed by the prince's goofy disposition. His appearance definitely did not 
 fit his voice or his attitude at all which was extremely frustrating. I thought to myself whatever 
 I can change the skin to original prince with the promotional code my friend got for pre ordering 
 the game. I was certain that this would make it at least playable. I was sorely mistaken. The gameplay 
 mechanics were incredibly clunky. The wallrunning didn't have the same realism (look up parkour 
 on youtube if you don't believe it's all humaly possible) from the first because of the claw and 
 it looked and played terrible. I also noticed some annoying camera problems although they were 
 nothing compared to the steaming pile that combat is. I was excited to see what they could do with 
 single enemy combat and I was expecting it to be as punishing as Hard difficulty was on the previous 
 POPs. It was too easy after taking time to master the combat in all the POPs and both Ninja Gaidens 
 it was pathetic. 
  
  I will admit that some animations were pretty satisfying but the overall weak gameplay just couldn't 
 keep me hooked. I'll also admit that I didn't actually finish the game because I was too disgusted 
 by it, and from what I've heard the end was decent. I heard that and tried playing again but quickly 
 was frustrated by it's repetitiveness and clunky play and stopped. I'm contemplating the purchase 
 of the old games to play instead : )
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Cool
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  I really don't think this game can get any better, except maybe a TINY little bit more of interaction 
 with other things, like people... but otherwise this is the BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED!!!! IMPERFECT 
 IS NOW NOT IN UBISOFT'S VOCABULARY!!! 
  
  But yes he is not TECHNICALLY a Prince Of Persia, but his nickname is Prince, and the Persia part 
 is either because he's from Persia, or maybe because he did some AMAZING feat in Persia.... but 
 I will have to play on to tell more.... 
  
  The Combat.... it would be cool if it was more than one on one.... like The Prince, Elika vs. 1-3 
 bad guys... anymore and that would be hard!! lol... but other than that, I LOVE the combat play 
 in this game... it's so interesting and fun... like using acrobats to turn the bad guy around to 
 the edge of the cliff so u can just slice him off.... hehe lol
  
  and finally... the acrobat moves.... Ubisoft made the moves alot more real.... in the Old Prince 
 Of Persia, you could wall run an incredible length, without even using his hands.... this Prince 
 actually uses all he can to stay on that WALL!!.... and even when he grabs onto a ring or something 
 and swings off it to keep going, he doesn't go as far as he was before... it is REAL!!!... like 
 if one could wall run... you'd do it like he does in the new Prince Of Persia!!!
  
  After ALL that... everything adds up to 10 for me.... 
  
  Once again.... perfection... absolute 
 perfection.... :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DisturbedMDD
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 11, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  I've disagreed with what most of the big-time reviewers said before, but not by this much. Everyone 
 is giving it like 4/5 or 8/10 or something like that and after actually playing the frickin game 
 I can't believe it. 
  
  Okay I started seeing bad things within the first couple minutes of playing. I realize some people 
 may like the almost-cartoony graphics but I just saw it as a world that could have looked cool, 
 but doesn't. I really do not want to dive deeper into that area so I'll jump to the fighting sequences... or 
 lack thereof.
  
  I couldn't stand just sitting there and basically watching the game play itself. You push like 
 3 or 4 buttons and watch a little bit o' action and then the dude's dead. Oh, but you do get to 
 occasionally hit the block button, but what's the point? And I may be mistaken but its impossible 
 to die. Now I know some people are like, "Yeah and its awesome, right?"...... Wrong. Being able 
 to die gives you more incentive to actually want to keep going and try harder, because you don't 
 want to die. 
  
  Well I guess the achievements can at least push me to try a little harder. Wrong again. You literally 
 get an achievement when you start the game. Okay some other games do that. But it turns out every 
 single achievement in the game is easy as hell to get. No challenge at all. At least some of those 
 games that give you a starter achievement, such as Soul Calibur IV, have most of the others hard 
 to get or actually at least challenge the player. 
  
  All in all, I hated this game. If you've never played a game before, go ahead and try it. If not, 
 screw this game. Go back to playing Gears 2 or something. I give this pathetic excuse for a game 
 a 3/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokra213
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Okay, people have been going on and on about the X-play review of this game and review of other 
 people. I personally can tell you that this game is completely worth buying and is very fun. You 
 have to look beyond the challenge and think about how much of a experience this game is. People 
 that are telling you not to buy this game and giving it bad reviews are the same people that just 
 came off of playing Fallout 3 or Gears of War 2. Don't listen to them people because all they do 
 is look at the games they played like I said and they go, "Oh this sucks because it's a regular 
 game that doesn't have flashy multiplayers and other crap." I mean come on, don't get off your 
 games that are ultra-hyped and tell me this game sucks. All I can say is the reviews that some 
 people are giving this is a bunch of crap. I mean so what that they put a character in there that 
 keeps you from dying, it makes it more fun by the way they set it up. I mean could you imagine 
 every time you die having to go back to the beginning of the level again and doing the whole stupid 
 wall jumps over. Also these people that have been saying about the controls and camera and all 
 that, it is a bunch of crap because the controls work perfectly and there are no glitches in the 
 game. All I can say is don't take everyone elses opinions on this game or other games play the 
 game even if you rent it and make your own decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lalocupra68
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  (SORRY FOR MY ENGLISH IM MEXICAN)
  
  i think this games is amazing. i like a lot the graphics the gameplay the new battle system. the 
 new prince looks good and its funny.
  
  one of the thinks i like most its the graphics.
  
  the only problem of this games (well for me its not a problem) its that its very easy because 
 its to difficult to die its nearly impossible lol. but that dont change my mind of this game. its 
 one of the best prince of persia i ve ever played .
  
  Thank you for reading and sorry again for my english but if i write in spanish someone erase my 
 review
  
  
  in conclucion this is an exclent game if you have the chance to get it dont think a lot and buy 
 it.
  
  the review of gamespot its good but i think prince of persia deserves at least 9.5 because the 
 graphics the gameplay and a lots of others thinks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bagumbo21
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Very good game indeed, just very easy, as you cant die technically. Looks absolutley gorgeous, 
 cel shaded graphics really work for the game. I love the open world gameplay. The one to one fights 
 are good, but can get quite repetetive at time with the QTE's and all. Almost everything about 
 this game is brilliant, music is perfect for the setting, brilliant enivorment, its all good. The 
 only really bad thing that kinda lets it down a bit is that it far too easy and hardcore gamers 
 will find it very easy and may get bored easily, thats really the only major flaw of this game. 
 The characters, well their aren't many but the one in this game are absolutely brilliant, the prince 
 in this game isn't really seen as a prince. All he really cares about is money, but as you go through 
 the game he starts to realise the danger he is in and starts to care for Elika the second main 
 character and not just for himself. Elika is your guardian abgel if you will and helps you with 
 literally everything, if you fall of the edge of a cliff you will be helped by her, if you are 
 fighting she will help you fight, if you die fighting she will help again. She is very helpfully. 
 Without her this game would be fairly challenging, as the enemies in this game are quite relentless 
 and will keep deflecting your attacks, even the standard generic enemy will keep attacking you 
 like there is no tommorow. So without Elika this game would be quite challenging. 
  
  Hope you like my review. It not very indepth but hey oh well!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft Montreal went back to the drawing board with this new iteration of the Prince of Persia 
 series, which had tremendous success in the previous generation. This is most evident by the innovative 
 and beautiful visual style seen in the game.
  
  So, does the Prince of Persia triumph over the previous titles? Most definitely.
  
  Loved
 
  
  Ease of controls:
  
  The best thing about the controls is the ease of use. You press the A button to jump on a wall, 
 the Prince will run by himself until you press A again to jump or press Y to use the magic pad 
 on the wall. For combat you have four main buttons that do different things. The A button is for 
 jumping, B button is for using your gauntlet to launch enemies into the air, Y button to use Elika 
 and the X button to use your sword. The R button is used for blocking as well as doing a counter 
 attack, if performed right.
  
  Every animation feels fluid -- remember in the previous trilogy when you would run around on walls 
 or run up walls, it felt kind of "loose" -- its a lot more smooth and has a feeling of a "click". 
 
  
  Everything just clicks and the end result is some really awesome looking acrobatics. 
  
  The 
 Story:
  
  Prince of Persia lets you decide how deep you want the story to go. How this is done is by talking 
 to Elika. Yes, you will have a cut scene here or there, but to get the most out of the game's fantastic 
 story is by talking to Elika and watching the character development of the Prince and Elika grow. 
 You also see how their relationship evolves and ultimately in the end you care about Elika, her 
 mission and her well being.
  
  Visual Style:
  
  As I've said before, the visual style is amazing. Ubisoft is calling it an "Illustrative" visual 
 style, almost like a water painting. It works well, its never been done before and it fits the 
 game perfectly. 
  
  Don't be put off by the game because of the visual style, because in all honesty, that is one of 
 its best attributes.
  
  Combat:
  
  The combat in the game is phenomenal. Its very cinematic, regardless of its one versus one feature. 
 It works well, it looks amazing and its a lot of fun once you master it.
  
  Music:
  
  The music in the game is top notch. Gone are the days of the hardcore metal/emo crap from the warrior 
 within and in are the days of truly amazing audio.
  
  Hated
  
  Yellow Magic Pad Doesn't Suit The Game:
  
  The yellow magic pad is basically a "flying" magic, 
 which, when performed, doesn't suit the game and is rather annoying.
  
  Easy Peasy:
  
  The game is easy for anyone who is a gamer, though, this isn't a huge complaint for me personally. 
 I acknowledge its easy, however, it doesn't hinder the experience at all.
  
  Ubisoft Montreal took a gamble with the new Prince of Persia. They designed it with the expanded 
 audience in mind, which might be a turn off for core gamers, they changed the art direction from 
 realistic to illustrative, which again, might be a turn off.
  
  However, I highly recommend this game to any gamer, regardless of skill level. Its a great game 
 and very enjoyable, the story is fantastic and it really pulls you in. 
  
  Easily my favourite game of the 2008 and one of my favourite games of this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellyham
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  When I first got Prince of Persia, I had a certain amount of expectations for it. They were destroyed 
 and replaced by something much much better than I ever could have hoped for. PoP was a phenomenal 
 game, the graphics were sound, almost like you forgot it was cell shaded, and made that type of 
 animation work in a way I have not seen in a long time. The layout of the game was immense, but 
 a little repetitive and yet never seemed to get old. The best thing about the game though, was 
 the interaction between the 2 characters in the story. The Prince was the arrogant, sarcastic hero 
 I always enjoy, and the heroine wasn't a lame duck waiting to be rescued. Anytime I would get upset 
 about a puzzle, or can't reach a light seed, the Prince would always say something that made me 
 laugh and forget about how angry I was and try again. The only real thing I have to say bad about 
 the game, was the short amount of time I beat it in. Under 12 hours, 10 hours and 22 minutes to 
 be exact. The inability to die made the game something that was easily beatable in 2-3 days, but 
 now that I am done, I am strangely finding myself wanting to go back and beat it again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:44 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia is one of those games that gained my interest, than lost a little, than gained 
 again... then I read reviews and was very skeptical. In the end i picked up the title, with an idea 
 of what to expect and how to appreciate the experience. Prince of Persia is by far one of the greatest 
 games I have ever played, especially in the last 2 generations. The story is interesting, but doesn't 
 really unfold until the end... which, in my opinion, was a great finale. The visuals are outstanding, 
 creating a story-book like fantasy world (think Okami) with incredible animations and fluid reactions. 
 The combat is by far the best sword-play battles, mixed with jumps and elika's magic to explode 
 some amazing combos that are not only fun to watch, but satisfying. The fights are 1 (enemy) vs 
 2 (you and elika) , but each mini-boss is epic... where as the standard enemies are a little on the 
 easy side. The level design is smart and the best i've encountered in a very long time. Some may 
 say the game is "easy" because you cannot die, but i can't agree... the developers simply knew some 
 sections were very difficult, they envisioned people dying for some trial and error... so they made 
 everyones lives easier. Now, i still wish there were difficulty options (maybe for the battles?) , 
 but alas there isn't which i deducted some points. The game isn't very long, about 10-12 hours, 
 which i thought was the perfect timeframe for the game. I'm currently on a second play through 
 to try and get some of the missing achievements. This is by far my fav game of 2008... its very 
 memorable and i cannot wait for a sequel. 
  
  Pros:
  - Beautiful art style, visuals, animations
  - Smart level design
  - Fluid controls, that are 
 forgiving but keep the experience flowing
  - Combat is excellent
  - Elika is a great companion
  - Interesting story
  
  Cons:
  - No diffculty options
  - 
 Standard enemies (aside from boss and mini-boss) are too easy
  - Replay value isn't there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HavenlyHunter
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  *Story
  This is not the continue of the old prince of persia story. 
  The story begin when the prince lost desert near a temple and in first cutscene you meet Elica 
 and the tutorial level start so you will after the tutorial level you can go to 4 direction evry 
 direction have 5 locals and 1 final fight and in every local you will fight the same boss so there 
 are 4 bosses and all of them have own great story in begin ther are only 1 local open from all 
 direction to open another you must collect light seed and the buy power ups the light seeds will 
 come to locals after you fight the boss 
  The great part of story you will see how the connection between the character grow
  
  *Gameplay
 
  the gameplay have 2 part jumping and fighting 
  the jumping part is most part the same from prince of persia sand trilogy just some new Elica ability 
 and you cant die but is not bad cose you wont have the long loading screens
  The fighting part is whole new you will only fight 1 vs 1 ( Elica is just 1 buton) and you use 
 4 butons A is dodge B is grap X is hit whith sword and Y is Elica and with thos 4 butons you can 
 make amazing combs even 14+ and you cant die in fight Elica will always save you but this is not 
 so terrible cose enemies and bosses will gain heath back
  
  *PS
  This game is for everyone who want to have a amazing experience the game play is fun and the story 
 is great 
  
  and sorry for my english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluemacondo
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Is current-gen gaming in its death throes?
  
  I've faithfully followed this games creation. I fervently applauded the bright "super-cel-shaded" 
 design. I thought the return to 1-on-1 battles was an intriguing choice and meaningfully respectful 
 of the Prince's past. I thought the proclaimed "new focus on story" (haven't all the POPs been 
 pretty story-heavy? in a good way?) is where I hope more and more developers angle for. A Jade 
 (from BG&E) and Altair skin? Sign me up. Open-world gameplay? Couldn't hurt.
  
  Wow, was I wrong on every account and expectation. The new POP is basically the death of games 
 to me. Assassin's Creed made Ubisoft a truckload of cash and after a furious back-patting session 
 they decided to hold off on the AC sequel (for which I wait with baited breath) to dust off a property 
 of theirs only to tarnish its name. I have to go with Croshaw on this one: even with their drawbacks, 
 the modern POP series (even the entire series as a whole) is some of the best gaming bang for your 
 buck. Likeable characters, well-above-average voice acting, nicely developing sequels (minus the 
 mascara) , and a masterful story involving time travel that made you care.
  
  Which is not the say that the new POP is absent of story. There's plenty of it, huge bulldozer-mouthfuls 
 of story played out in wonderful talking heads for the ENTIRE GAME. I get it. This story relies 
 on 2 characters. That doesn't mean that I need a "camera 1, camera 2" shot every time they talk. 
 And yes, I only have myself to blame, I was the one who kept clicking the left trigger button to 
 motivate this tale. I clicked that Talk button for one main reason: I wanted to care about this 
 story. Though the ending to the game was surprisingly decent, the road to get there was tired territory 
 with some occasionally colorful, but mostly awkward, pillow talk.
  
  Kudos to the voice actors, they were all magnficent. The soundtrack was excellent. The graphics 
 were....... better in the screenshots. Then again, I don't have an HDTV, so I'll excuse my opinion 
 there. Shadow and lighting was rather well done, the backgrounds were nice. If they were set on 
 creating a new IP called "Backgrounds & Cinematic Sound Quality: Satiety of the Stockholders" they 
 did a bang up job.
  
  The gameplay here is TRASH. You basically are given an arsenal of canned animations. The combat 
 is clunky and dull. I don't think for a single moment in this entire game did I feel in control 
 of the characters, I was simply clicking my way through mechanical sequences like a next-gen version 
 of Dragon's Lair The Arcade Game. You could practically draw a map to each level in this game, 
 and it would look like this: A button, Y button, B button, A button A button left direction stop. 
 It would look like a telegram from a psychopath but it would not be inaccurate.
  
  I'll end by briefly comparing this title to Assassin's Creed, my first 360 purchase and a favorite 
 for the console. I don't compare the games to be an irate little troll (I'd be way more irate if 
 I paid full price for this instead of renting and beating it in two gaming sessions) , I compare 
 them because dammit Ubisoft, you're begging for it:
  
  - Assassin's creed, for the first time in a modern action platformer, actually gave you the ability 
 to devise your own path through a landscape. You could wallrun over three adjacent towers, climb 
 a ladder, jump in some hay... or you could run on the floor, climb a tower, jump to a nearby roof 
 and scuttle quickly to stealth-kill an archer in the process. Every city was open to how you felt 
 like traversing it. In POP I feel like I'm in a QTE game without visible button prompts on every 
 single screen.
  
  - AC had a unique story that took risks, brimming with sensible (though some argue long-winded 
 and unskippable) conversation. Here you're prompted to enable the conversations, but otherwise 
 have little control or care over how your characters develop. The story is Okami in a Persian land, 
 with far less charm.
  
  -AC was a nonstop gaming experience I still pick up every now and then. POP is something I'd pass 
 even if it was in the bargain bin. At least it was relatively short.
  
  Ubisoft, get back to work!
  
  P. S. Last minute arbitrary item collection is trash. Give us 
 something nice for the trouble but don't make it a requirement to progress. THIS IS GAMING 101 
 FOLKS! (if you'd been at all reserved in snagging light seeds in your typical playthrough of this 
 game, here's a tip: you'll need 540 to beat it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabia_86
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  What a great way to continue an already amazing story. I have played the first 3 on the playstation2 
 and now have the latest on the xbox360 and the graphics are impeccable! I love the game play and 
 the way you can choose to follow the storyline or not. Overall I am very impressed with it. The 
 only negative I have found is that it can be perceived as easy, but I only think that is the case 
 if you have played all of the previous games and is due to already understanding the controls and 
 the way the game flows. Which you will have with any game sequels that people follow. Unless you 
 change the controls and the content completely of course you are going to have an easier time if 
 you have previous played earlier versions! Besides that I was very impressed with the new style 
 of graphics, I love how even though it is cartoony, it makes you feel more into the surroundings. 
 Like you could be there. Not to mention the sexy side kick is just a great addition! Final feeling 
 ... Awesome Game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  Gamespot seems to have let me down for once. This title is more deserving than a rating of an 8.0. 
 I am a fanboy of the old series, the sands of time but I came into this one with an open mind. 
 As a standalone game, this is a very impressive one. The first and foremost thing to mention is 
 the artistic direction, which shimmers and draws you in. Beautifully designed levels and intricate 
 character details make the Prince of Persia an artistic masterpiece. The platforming itself is 
 quite fun, although extremely easy. Wall-runs, extended jumps, and pole swings although visually 
 stunning are very simple to pull-off, unlike the old series. The fighting is an addition to sheer 
 beauty of this game. Who thought that sword fighting and magic could be an element of wonder? Well, 
 ubisoft has pulled it off in the new combat system. Sword attacks combined with magic attacks from 
 Elika, your faithful magician princess sidekick, leads to some of the most memorable combos in 
 the game. They will be so considering you have to unlock them by discovering them during combat. 
 Now, there is one drawback in this game which I am most displeased with, the fact that you can't 
 die. In moments of frustration this can seem extremely valuable feature but there seems to be no 
 challenge to the game as you can constantly be pulled back from he brink of death by your sidekick. 
 Not to say that the overall experience isn't fun but it is a truly amazing feeling knowing that 
 you have escaped death rather than knowing it will never affect you. However, on the xbox 360, 
 the reason for aimlessly yahooing off cliffs and seeing the trusty Elika rescue you from death 
 is hindered by the fact that you can get special achievements for not using her saving ability 
 so much. Overall, this is a fantastic EXPERIENCE (as i mentioned earlier) so try and treat it like 
 one. The absence of death has stripped POP of its presence as a game and more like a movie. So 
 please, consider like one, because you will be more than satisfied with what it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowerTReveiws
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  With a quite silly and quite easy difficulty the new prince is sure to disappoint. This "new" prince 
 was created using an overdone art style. Was he created using clip art, Microsoft paint? We shall 
 never know. This game was made by the same man who made assassin's creed, a slightly difficult 
 action/stealth game. He takes this serious backdrop and ambiance from assassin's creed and ruins 
 it in this excuse for a game. Hell, this looks like one of those common movie game (e. g. Bolt, 
 Wall-E, and Elmo Teaches You Colors) Do they take us for children by giving us this easy piece 
 of junk. Don't waste your money. Also anyone notice this "new" prince looks almost exactly like 
 Ike from the fire emblem series? Wow not only is this disappointing but also not creative. Also 
 look at what hype makes us think of a game, I honestly feel stupid I believed this would be a success. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmmmmy1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing the first Prince of Persia game, years and years ago. What an experience. The 
 subsequent hair transplants still haven't replaced all the hair I pulled out while playing that 
 demonic summoning. 
  
  Needless to say, Prince of Persia has exploded out of the tiny world it started in, and become 
 a mainstream hit, often rivaling Devil May Cry for affection among fanatics of the genre. Luckily 
 for them all that this game delivers.
  
  The 360 rendition is in many respects a masterpiece. The graphics are spot on, and the music score 
 is fantastic, albeit some poor voice acting. While some elements of the game appear to have been 
 rushed, it is undeniable that the presentation itself was done with meticulous care. The battles 
 are for the most part fun, engaging, and although easy, a joy to play. The platforming has some 
 minor issues, that may frustrate you, but not enough to take away the true enjoyment of this game.
 
  
  There are slight issues with the game, as with all games. My biggest one being simply that I feel 
 like I've seen every part of it before... from ICO and Shadow of the Colossus, to the Devil May 
 Cry series, there seems to be something borrowed. Not to be dismayed, as there is definitely something 
 new, and something blue, to go along with them.
  
  Play this one!
  
  Cheers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cwaiho2003
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Obvious premature Release, the Ubisoft Montreal team would have done a much better job if given 
 an extra 6 to 8 months development cycle. 
  
  It has all the right elements to be one of greatest game. Graphic is amazing, Cel Shading technology 
 are used at it's best. Attractive character design and motional capture is exceptional good. And 
 with a decent battle system too...
  
  It has all the right stuff.. but one thing missing - GAME PLAY. All mission is too repetitive, 
 and for the fact that you cannot possibly die. It's just took all the fun out of the game. You 
 partner will recuse you no matter what 
  happened, or the boss will gain HP if you failed to press the right button. There were even one 
 stage that your partner was in danger and held captive. Still she will come out of no where to 
 recuse you, then go back to a captive state. There is absolutely no challenge to it. I felt like 
 in a "No child left behind" school system that no one gets a fail grade. Are we so sensitive to 
 our children now that there is no bloody "GAME OVER" in our games ... 
  
  It's probably not the Ubi Montreal dev team's fault, it's a premature release before Christmas. 
 All the right substance is there for the game, but fail to package it with a good solid gameplay.... 
 
  
  What a shame.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Prince of Persia isn't for everyone. Let's make it clear. It's one of those games that some will 
 love, and others will hate. Just like any other '' artisticly driven '' games out there.
  
  Remember Okami ? Ico ? Shadow of the Colossus ? Even Assassin's Creed ?
  
  If you disliked 
 these games, you may want to pass on Prince of Persia, and really, shame on you. Although if you 
 liked the mentionned titles, you're in for a marvellous adventure, and a new gaming masterpiece.
 
  
  The prince's move has been made simpler, and simpler doesn't mean less fun. It's just less frustrating. 
 You're less likely to miss a jump because you didnt position your character to the exact location 
 you need to be, wich means the moment of falling from a ledge and yelling '' why didnt you grab 
 on it '' won't happen.
  
  The gameplay itself is a joy. You almost feel like your duo of characters just breeze through the 
 environement and that they'll overcome any obstacles in their way. Elika, your magic friend, is 
 a great addition and really is the prime example on how to create a useful, yet passive companion.
 
  
  The combat in this game is a hit or miss for people. I think it's amazing for the player AND its 
 audience. People will be left in awe after seing the prince and Elika destroy an enemy in an elegant 
 fashion. It's a different take on combat ; more like a movie one, and I think it's wonderfuly welcome. 
 It'll take a while, but when you do memorize cool looking combos, nothing can top this. No, it's 
 not DMC, but even myself who like games like God of War 1 and 2 at their maximum difficulty, enjoy 
 it.
  
  People say '' it's not for the hardcore gamer ''. Well, I am an hardcore gamer. I'm probably better 
 than you in most games, and I like masochist difficulty in my beat em alls and first person shooters, 
 yet I feel in love with this game. Maybe because I'm juste leanant and open-minded on my entertainement.
 
  
  Not being able to die in this game isn't a bad point, it's a good one. Even if the game has a great 
 and simple pacing, you'll occasionnaly fall to your death and - thank god Elika's there to save 
 you. Imagine the game without this power. People would complain about '' she can fricking fly, 
 how can't she save me ? its stupid ''. It's the same thing than dying anyways, you respawn to a 
 close checkpoint ; thats it. You're just saved from the annoying '' YOU'RE DEAD'' continue yes/no 
 screen.
  
  The prince was being told a jerk, or an ass, by most reviewers who also fell in love with Elika. 
 Well, I found ( with many other people surprisingly enough ) the prince to be an amazing main character. 
 He's full of personality, charisma, he made me AND my girlfriend, who was doing homework beside 
 me laugh more then once. He's far from being a jerk ; he's cynical and very humane. That's how 
 I'd react too if I was in his shoes, and seriously ? Chicks dig humor. I'm glad the hero isn't 
 some JRPG 17yearsold hero with some teen angst, or some american badass with no smile on his face.
 
  
  That said, this game is one of its kind, and I can easily see myself talking about it with my friends, 
 like a good movie. Everything about it is just great.
  
  Even if people love it or not, this game will definitly be remembered for it's amazing production 
 values, storyline, characters, world and gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mafia217
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  
  Ok, we all know how badass Prince of Persia series back in PS2 was. I mean, controlling time as 
 you wished, doing free style combat, climbing walls, fighting huge bosses with tricky strategies, 
 those hard to think puzzles that one took hours to figure it out. But that is ok. But clearly Ubisoft 
 wanted to make Prince of Persia for the casuals, well in my reasoning. Why?
  
  The gameplay itself is explanatory, too easy. I don't really care, when you die you are not thrown 
 into a black screen with the words "Game Over" or "You are dead". Rather than Elika (the girl that 
 helps you) saving your butt. Technically you don't die if we see it from the other series perspective. 
 In the other series, what happen was, that when you died, you saw the display of "Game Over" and 
 then a loading screen and then seeing yourself back in the last save point. So They decided to 
 take those elements as it seems that not a lot of people were satisfied with that. 
  
  The graphics in this game are awesome, artistically. So don't expect some Final Fantasy crap with 
 ZOMG graphics or Ccall of Duty engine. The combat system is also awesome, how you don't engage 
 agasint 5 enemies, but instead it's one and it's like a mini boss, so combos are needed to take 
 down these dudes. The use of "teamwork" between the Prince and Elika to overcome challenges is 
 awesome. 
  
  The soundtrack is purely good and I love it. Some people might not enjoy it, but for me I like 
 it a lot. 
  
  Replay value, meehh, no need since there isn't anything that you might miss. It's pretty much straightforward, 
 semilinear I would say. 
  
  I would say, to rent this game if you have enought time to play it. Unlike me, I have stuff to 
 do more importantly, but I make sure to give myself the Price of Persia dose :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarekr0w
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  You just do the same thing over and over again.. These games were fun back in the day on PS2. Remember 
 Rayman? Ratchet and Clank? God of War? Jack and Daxter? the older Prince of Persia games! for crying 
 out loud... 
  
  You literally can't die. My 3month old niece can probably finish the game, may take her a while 
 but I bet she could. Just point forward and press A, over and over..
  
  Yeah it is a nice looking game. Pretty good graphics.. The back rounds/texture could be better 
 but the characters look Okay. I wouldn't say Amazing. 
  
  It just reminds way too much of old PS2 games except for the fact that this game has barely any 
 puzzles or anything Difficult to over come. You only fight so many bosses and spend 90% of the 
 game running around stepping on colors and hanging off rings while climbing walls... 
  
  I give it a 7. maybe a 7.5 just because it has few glitches and is fun to look at. Game play I 
 would give it a 4. Too repetitive, too boring, not enough fighting. If there is going to be little 
 fighting, At least include tons of puzzles that actually make you think and spend hours doing!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasserdude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  You starts the game, the cool intro lags pretty nice, but hey, its still nice. You step into a 
 world of AWESOME graphics and a nice well told story. You are Prince of persia, you have a girl 
 with you, a princess. And she always helps you up, thats pretty nice. even if she is stuckin mud, 
 she can help you. And she can fly pretty nice to.
  
  there are a lot of levels, but the difference between them are few. You just jump around, fights 
 bosses with same tricks, over and over and over. But its still AWESOME graphics. But not really 
 fun.
  
  And after 5 levels there is 5 NEW LEVELS TO EXPLORE, in the same way you explored the 5 before. 
 but with a little twist, maybe a booring awesome looking boss, maybe a tiny puzzle, or MAYBE if 
 you have luck, some cool gliding time to jump fast forward with.
  
  The game is very easy, that means that everymovement you dous, is the right. even if you take the 
 controller stick to an other way, you just come to right place. just press A and jump, and you 
 will clear a lot of challanges.. BUT right on your nose, there is places that you need a perfect 
 landing, perfect timing, but why not before? yeah, thats sucks.
  
  You do always the same thing, in hours. like assassins creed, you just did the same thing.. I think 
 they need to focus on the fun part, not the awesom graphics and game engine they can make.
  
  We hardcore gamers still need to be satisfied to, why make a super nice cool AWESOME game so 
 lame?
  
  but hey, its a kiddy game, and overrated. Why is this game so good? i can tell you, because Tombraider 
 sucks, and are buggy, so here comes the easy game thats not buggy, but has no content. just an 
 engine, nice graphics, nice actors, and nice mooves, BUT IT IS VERY VERY REPERATIVE! ( i dont know 
 the right word for that, booring + do same stuff al over again? )
  
  But they have done a very good game.. but there is not a game, for you that dont being satisfieid 
 with lame casual stuff. that just AMAZEZ the 14-16years boys...
  
  We over 18-20 that have gamed since child? its booring.
  
  sry for my bad english, i am swedish, 
 and sucks at write, as you see..
  
  good luck, the game is good, but overated as hell..
  
  Call of duty 4? starcraft ? diablo? Grand theft auto? mass effect? are this game in the same 
 class as Prince of persia is? HELL NO. 7.5 is the right.
  
  Braid can go down 2 points also.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
