-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pro Evolution Soccer 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/pes2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple, easy-to-pick-up gameplay.
 Champions League license with official teams and sponsors.
 New four-player online mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lack of improvement to core gameplay.
 Dated animation system looks stilted.
 Impoverished and laggy online play.
 Poor presentation and commentary.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 22, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.4, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 275 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Nov 11, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 is an improvement on last year's game, but this is a series that desperately 
 needs a complete overhaul. 

  UK REVIEW -- Although Pro Evolution Soccer fans bought last year's game in droves, it was unfortunately 
 an all-time low for the series on the Xbox 360. Poor graphics, dreadful presentation, and basic 
 online play failed to make the most of the hardware, and it was a step back in gameplay terms. 
 Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 doesn't completely redress the balance, but it's a step in the right 
 direction, with new game modes, an improved editor, and even a Champions League licence. Additionally, 
 this is a more enjoyable game to play thanks to its slower pace, more responsive control system, 
 and simple passing mechanic. Unfortunately these are only small fixes, and though there's a solid 
 game at the core, it's one that still fails to keep up with the times.  

           The Champions League license is a big coup for Konami, who have previously struggled to 
 secure official teams and competitions.       

  Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 continues the series accessible and deep gameplay. A couple of key changes 
 bring the gameplay back toward Pro Evo 6, which should make fans of the series feel right at home. 
 The overall pace has been reduced this year, and the ball feels heavier, both of which mean that 
 it's easier than ever to link passes. The game is also incredibly fluid when you're trying to link 
 together through-balls and crosses, and moving the ball around generally feels more natural and 
 instinctive than before. However, football is an unpredictable game, and this is something that 
 Pro Evo 2009 really struggles to capture. Part of this is down to the animation system, which lets 
 players change direction quickly but looks outdated and overly procedural. Run a player down the 
 wing and you'll see his animation routine repeating over and over, and though a fast player can 
 outrun a slower one, there's no real sense of physical tussling in midfield. This year's players 
 bounce off of goalposts and one another, but famous players such as Rooney and Ronaldinho have 
 none of their other defining physical qualities.  

  Although the gameplay has merely been given a face-lift, a number of game modes are completely 
 new for this year. At the top of the list is the new Champions League mode, which means that Europe's 
 biggest club tournament is included with some of its key teams and sponsors. This is quite a boon 
 for Konami, who have long failed to secure any official competitions for the series. The Champions 
 League mode is not only given prime position on this year's main menu, but it's also given the 
 full TV-style presentational treatment. You get the same dramatically shot videos, replays, and 
 banner ads that adorn the TV presentation of the competition, and most crucially, Handels Zadok 
 the Priest features throughout. It's quite a refreshing change from previous games that have had 
 an unofficial feel to them, but it's not perfect; only 13 teams from this year's competition are 
 included in their official capacity. Key squads such as Arsenal and Chelsea are still called "North 
 London" and "London FC," and are listed outside of the official Champions League roster.  

           The Legends mode is where you and three friends can play online, albeit only against an 
 AI team.       

  The other major addition is the Become a Legend mode, in which you concentrate on an individual 
 player rather than an entire team. You create your own player from scratch, choosing his height, 
 weight, and facial details, even his celebration routines and likelihood of injury. You can also 
 scan your own face if you have an Xbox Live Vision camera, but the game just sticks your face on 
 top of an existing model. This means that you need to adjust the skin tones on both the model and 
 the photo to attain some sort of parity, and even then the results look oddly disjointed. That 
 said, there's an absolute wealth of options to tweak, and it's great to see yourself score a goal 
 in the game.  

  Ultimately, though, Become a Legend is a novel but rather boring take on the standard game. You 
 spend most of the time running around off the ball, while midfield players will need to constantly 
 chase down attackers while forwards will have to help score goals. Unlike the similar Be a Pro 
 mode in FIFA 09, there's no incentive for actually performing your job on the pitch, given that 
 you're not rewarded for your individual passing and tackling. If your team is scoring goals and 
 winning games, then you'll be able to move to new teams, which means that your AI teammates become 
 stronger along the way. The online version of Legend is much better because it does reward people 
 for making successful passes and tackles, and the score multiplies the longer you hold on to the 
 ball. The downside is that it only offers support for up to four players, and you have to play 
 against an AI opponent.  

  The lack of official licences is something that Pro Evo fans should be used to by now, so its 
 good that the edit mode has become even more extensive. You can manually edit everything from individual 
 players and teams to stadiums and competitions, and if you spend a bit of time, you can update 
 all of your favourite teams and leagues. Seeing "Yorkshire Orange" instead of "Hull City" can make 
 any suspension of disbelief much harder, so it's worth doing. Even better, you can now import your 
 own images and photos via USB memory stick or the Xbox Live Vision camera. This still results in 
 some funny-looking player faces, but it works well on club emblems.  

  Konami has clearly put some work into presentation this year, and though the results are still 
 far from stylish, they are definitely  trying . The menu system has been given a pop art/Gilbert 
 &amp; George overhaul that may look dated, but it certainly differentiates in the world of commercial 
 sports games. The sound is atrocious, with generic music for the menus and what is without doubt 
 the worst commentary yet. The duo of John Champion and Mark Lawrenson have unwisely tried to inject 
 some humour into this year's proceedings, saying things like, "This match will end in defeat for 
 one party, and in a party for the other." Even worse, they make frequent factual inaccuracies, 
 praising defenders who haven't even touched the ball or midfielders who made passes that went straight 
 to the opposing team. Were also disappointed to see graphical tearing on the Xbox 360 version 
 of the game, something which doesnt afflict the PS3 version.  

           Theres a great game in Pro Evo 2009, but for fans of the series theres not much they 
 havent seen before.      

  Last year's online mode was laggy, simple, and prone to connection dropout, and though it was updated 
 postrelease, it never reached the state that it really should have. This year's game is better, 
 but it's still lacking on both features and performance. The registration process involves separate 
 IDs for both the game and Konami, and even when you get into the online mode, it's a confusing 
 collection of menus and options. Servers are split by language, probably because you can text chat 
 in the lobby before a game, and then each lobby has a maximum player count of 100. You can challenge 
 individual players to matches or pair up automatically with the quick-match option, but getting 
 into an online game still requires much more time and effort than it should. Lag is also a problem, 
 with balls that act erratically and players that transport from one location to another. Strangely, 
 this seemed to affect the standard 1-versus-1 online mode rather than it did the four-player Legends 
 mode.  

  Pro Evolution Soccer 2009 is a good game, but it's one that has significantly failed to evolve 
 over the last few years. The new modes add some potential interest for owners of last years game, 
 but the Champions League is just flashy dressing for a competition that still doesn't feature all 
 of the official teams, and the Become a Legend mode is neither as feature-packed nor as fun to 
 play as FIFA 09's equivalent. If you love Pro Evolution Soccer's gameplay and simple control system 
 then this year's game is worth checking out, but everyone has a right to demand much more from 
 Konami's increasingly stale series.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pokefan1999
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  After having played PES 09 for the 360 for a while, I have mixed feelings about it. This is my 
 first Pro Evo game since PES 6, which in turn was my first since International Superstar Soccer 
 64, and like I did when I first played PES 6, I at once realized that this is the same game it 
 was twelve years ago, but vastly, vastly improved. ISS 64 is, in many ways, a more realistic football 
 game than FIFA '09, when one takes into account the technology constraints of the day. PES 2009 
 is no different, but it suffers from a few glaring flaws that let it down in a huge way.
  
  It's quite frustrating because this is a game with AI, graphics and certain aspects of gameplay 
 that blow EA's FIFA series well out of the water (and unlike with FIFA, the soundtrack isn't unlistenable, 
 it's quite good in fact) , but a lot of things just aren't executed as well as they could be.
  
  The passing system is the main thing I'm talk about. The manual states that pressing 'A' and 
 pushing in the direction of the player you want to pass to will send a pass in their direction, 
 and holding down the button for longer will send it to a more distant player, but they can't even 
 get this right. Often your player will pass to someone in a completely different direction, or 
 tap it slowly ahead to be picked up by an opposing player. As you can imagine, when this happens 
 when you have the ball in your own end, it's kinda disastrous. This wasn't a problem in either 
 of the previous Konami soccer titles I played, and it's quite a letdown.
  
  Long passes are even worse. When you change controller options to play long passes manually (ie 
 without the computer assisting the ball and guiding it to a teammate) , it's virtually impossible 
 because the ball never goes in the direction you tell it to. Konami don't seem to have taken advantage 
 of the 360 degree capability of the analog stick, or at least haven't done so correctly. I think 
 part of the reason for this may be because PES is still kind of stuck back in the days of PS1, 
 when people still controlled players with the D-pad, and hence, they still allow players to play 
 with the d-pad. There's probably a couple dozen people who still use the d-pad, it's ridiculously 
 outdated, I can't believe they haven't moved past that when every other game has.
  
  Players also don't control the ball well enough, particularly around the touchlines, which is where 
 you'd think they'd concentrate on keeping the ball in.
  
  Shooting is also quite awkward; the power-up meter fills up too quickly preventing you from sliding 
 the ball along the ground, and the option to side-foot a shot for placement over power is very 
 difficult to get to work. Unlike in previous editions, you now have to hit the 'RB' button while 
 the shot is powering up, as opposed to holding it down while you shoot, which is much more difficult 
 to pull off.
  
  It's quite a shame, because this game has the potential to be near-perfect. When you watch two 
 computer teams play against each other it's like watching a real match, that's how good the AI, 
 graphics and physics are.
  
  The graphics are stunning, I can't overstate this. Unlike in FIFA, the artists for which always 
 strike me as being very lazy and not paying attention to detail, players look scarily like their 
 real-life counterparts, and the kits are exactly like their real-life counterparts, right down 
 to the different lettering on the back of shirts for different manufacturers (so far I've noticed 
 distinct lettering for Lotto, adidas, Nike and Puma kits, as well as the unique FA Premier League 
 font for all English clubs) and even accurate socks. Every year Konami manage, on a lower budget, 
 to make a better-looking game than EA.
  
  It's just very tough to play, and it's a bummer, because it should have been much better.
  
 
  Probably the best thing about this game is that it forces you to play realistically. In FIFA, 
 for instance, you can grab any player on the pitch and make him run around out of position, and 
 the opposition will never exploit the weakness created by your stupidity, because the AI is so 
 bad. What EA do is add a bunch of new features every year and make the game easy to pick up and 
 play, so you don't notice the hugely flawed game underneath until you've played it for a few months. 
 In PES, if you take your right back and make him chase the ball down the left, you will get scored 
 on- especially by the better teams in the game- when the left winger spots the open space and switches 
 play over to the right side and you have nobody there to stop the attack. 
  
  As I said, the AI in PES is outstanding, and always has been. Sadly, International Superstar Soccer 
 64 (the distant predecessor to PES) probably has a better game at its core than FIFA 09 (in which 
 the old FIFA '97 strategy of making a huge run down the wing and then cutting in at the 18 still 
 works) . If not for the difficulties in getting players to actually do what you want them to, PES 
 09 would be amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rattamierda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 9:42 am PT
Review:  Konami ultimate soccer (football) game
  
  It is a nice game, you have the same options that all the old games for all the platforms... maybe 
 except by the ISSS for N64.
  
  First i want to talk about the great things about this game
  
  The moves with the player i 
 think this is a new way to play, its great to se that make the old move with square and X its not 
 as good as the old ones, because you have to use the arrows with the ability of the players.
  
  The new option about create a career its just great, the people its no longer playing a masters 
 leage, the are using this great options and see what is going to happend with his player.
  
  The teams, a lot of new teams, but we want more, i hope fifa gives them autorizations for using 
 all the teams and players, because the true its that the FIFA SOCCER games sometimes are very stupid.
 
  
  The another thinks are the same, so lets talk about the bad things
  
  The firs and the greatest problem, if you are playing a masters league and you have a lot of money, 
 you cant buy any player, nooo you have to pray if someone accept the negotiations, it could be 
 a miracle, or maybe an error of the console. I have seen a lot of forums of people asking how in 
 the hell should they make to buy a player?, the true its that i dont know.
  
  The second thing, its that sometimes the com plays so fair, they never make a foul (the real football 
 isnt in that way) and when you see all the statistics you see that the another team has as 1000 
 yellow cards, but when this team plays against you, you can even see the player, because if you 
 see those, pufff your yellow card.
  
  In general its the best soccer game, but there is not nothing new, but i know its hard to do it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Italiannerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  At first glance it may look like FIFA 2009 is better. Although FIFA 2009 does have good graphics, 
 the other parts of it are a downfall compared to PES. You may not notice these things, but as far 
 as the programming goes, this is just better. It makes it feel like you are actually playing soccer. 
 The movement of the ball is great, it moves like a real one. When you score a goal, the movements 
 of the net looks exactly like a real one, it doesn't look like a brick like in FIFA. And this is 
 just out of this world, but you have to look extremely closely, and even though such a small part, 
 it shows the time and effort of the programmers, the brilliance of the programmers, and realistic 
 part of the game. When you score a goal, use the replay tool and go to the exact moment when you 
 are about to shoot, like when your foot is on the ball. Then line up the ball with the goalie's 
 face. Get this, if there is a player between the goalies face and the ball, (basically if a player 
 is screening the goalie from seeing the ball) the goalies reaction is slower than if there is a 
 player running straight at the goalie and the ball is completely visible. Also, weather affects 
 the playing, too. It is a lot different when playing with the rain and puddles compared to sunshine. 
 As for unique graphics, a lot of time was put in to these. The player's eyes follow the ball as 
 you play, they blink, and the jerseys and shorts move as the player moves. The game play is amazing 
 on this because there are tons of different teams and modes you can use on this game. You can do 
 Master League, Become a Legend, plain old Exhibition, and a lot more. As for teams, you basically 
 have all the leagues you get in FIFA and the classic teams. Classic teams are a great addition 
 because they let you play with the old legends of soccer that are long retired. Like Baggio on 
 Classic Italy, or Maradona of Classic Argentina, and Pele on Classic Brazil. I choose this over 
 FIFA any day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roosmas
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 2:25 am PT
Review:  where fifa is getting better and better. PES suddenly feels a bit like an ok soccer game. Great 
 the licences have grown, but this doesn't make it all ok.
  The quality of the video is really great (especially on PC) but the gameplay feels more arcade 
 now, where it used to feel so much better. 
  I WAS a real PES Player (on PC as well as on xbox (360) ) , I'm very sorry to say, I'm now a real 
 FIFA2009 player (especially on Xbox) .
  
  PES2009 still hasn't got the 'regular' leagues. Why not? That would feel so much better and close 
 to real.
  
  Shooting in PES is a drag. where in 2008 you could still miss at 2 meters front of empty goal, 
 now pressing the button even for a short burst, the shot can easily be much to hard (and high) .
 
  
  It's still an ok game to play at 5 or 10 euro's, but not worth paying more.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seb_
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:33 pm PT
Review:  pro evolution soccer it's a must have in your list even if you only have the 2007 one or any other, 
 it's just really addictive. the problem with the PES is that is always the same, of course it should 
 be but it's a futbol game, but i'm not expecting unbelievable graphics in a sports game i just 
 want to play! so what i think it should be done is: a great graphic soccer game, with a good gameplay 
 and the possibility to update the players and then just leave it there. for 3 o 2 year in order 
 to make REAL improvements between the games. i can't tell the difference between the 2008 and the 
 2009 games, because they are barely the same. i heard for example the "legend" type of game were 
 you are yourself and you control only your own player it a very good improvement and that it's 
 exactly what we expected just not that often. it like we had ine resident evil each year... it's 
 just not right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:34 am PT
Review:  Posotive
  +Great controll
  +UEFA Champions League
  
  Negetive
  -Lacks alot of licesenses
  -Become a legend mode is boring
  -Horribly dated graphics
  -Weak 
 sound
  
  This years eddition to the PES series falls behind EA Sport's FIFA series. It still brings some 
 solid gameplay but the series really is falling behind FIFA.
  
  PES2009 has great controll though it's smooth and makes the game easy to pick up and play. Also 
 this time they have the offical UEFA Champions League license were you can compete in the tournerment 
 with all the proper sponsers and TV style presentaton.
  
  The first problem with PES2009 and always has been with all the games is the licenses. Only 2 teams 
 in the enitre english league are licesensed and there are no lower leagues in this game, so there 
 are nowere near as much teams as FIFA 09. Still you can change the names of teams in the edit mode 
 like Chelsea are called "London FC". Also the become a legend mode is a complete snooze fest, its 
 nowere near as good as FIFA's Be a Pro mode. Don't bother trying it.
  
  But PES2009's biggest issue lies in the presentation, to say the least its bad. For a start PES2009's 
 graphics are dated to no exstent making it look like a 360 game that came out in 2006. Also player 
 animations are repeted again that look clunky and seriously need an improvment, and player models 
 themselves are pretty bad to. The sound is also weak, the audio is passable, the comentary is not 
 to bad although they repate themselves quite often.
  
  PES2009 isn't a terrible game it just seems dated and the gameplay, sound and grpaihcs need a huge 
 improvment to even compete with FIFA. So which one to get this year? PES 2009? No. FIFA 09? deffinatly.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_P_O
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:16 pm PT
Review:  PES has always had a history of overhaul, that is a fact. But rarely an overhaul quite like this 
 since the excellent PES5. First off, it is clear that the flow is improved in matches, everything 
 runs smooth and more clean cut than it's previous installments. I noticed this when I compared 
 PES 2009 and 2008 on the 360, '09 is hilariously smoother and flows much better. An average match 
 on PES2009 is fast, smooth, arcadey and most importantly FUN.
  
  Passing remains as excellent as ever, with the trick of having to hold down the pass button to 
 optimise power. But unlike FIFA, it doesn't feel like the ball is heavier than it actually should 
 be. Although this impacts the shooting of the game as the ball will often be launched miles over 
 the bar. But with a little practice in positioning, it's nothing that can't be sorted. Although 
 as ever, he chip shot is quite hard to judge, but that's pretty much the same with every PES.
 
  
  The only real complaint that I had with the gameplay in PES2009 was the manual pass switched to 
 the right analogue stick, where the footwork used to be. It just feels odd, you would usually use 
 it to turn defenders with a first touch, but as a force of habit I kept making the mistake of passing 
 the ball out of touch. It's an odd change to say the least.
  
  Graphically, PES keeps improving, the pitches are of a lush green and the players that are actually 
 licensed, look like their real life counterparts. The crowds have also improved, although I expected 
 a little bit better form Konami for them to adress that. If you can get over the awful menu BGM, 
 then the sound is of a good quality in matches, not that they could possibly get that wrong.
  
  The team roster for PES has long been an argument against the series, but for me to insult 
 the game for something Konami have literally no control over would be petty. Let's just say that 
 it's good news if you're a Liverpool fan or prefer Spanish football to the English premier league.
 
  
  Online matches lag a little at times, but are fun for the most part. Plus I can't really blame 
 Konami for this as much as the connection for the broadband.
  
  So, if you're looking for an easy to get into football game, an alternative to FIFA or just want 
 a football game in general. You could do a lot worse than PES2009, the smoother gameplay, improved 
 graphics and Master league will hopefully keep you highly entertained until the next installment 
 in the serie.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy018
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  I have played every pro evo since the original on pro evo, in my time i have pld 10's of thousands 
 of games. I have defended Pro Evo year in year out against the Fifa Fan boys.
  But i cannot no more, these final comments, are pretty much my final swan song. Its a sad sad day.
 
  
  Graphics = 4
  Music/Sound effects = 2
  Gameplay = 5
  Features = 3
  Online playability = 2
  
  Pro Evo as never been known for the look, its always been the way 
 it plays. The beautiful game at your finger tips. 
  Now it just feels Clunky, slow responding, players feel rigid, unable to execute the quality passing 
 and football which once graced my eyes. Running with players is like running on rails, easily being 
 able to run up and down the pitch, cutting in and out, with out a tackle getting near you. This 
 is not football, this is pure unrealistic bull****.
  
  Those scores pretty much round off, my thoughts on a gaming serious which as slowly died a death 
 on the new generation console.
  Its time for Konami to shut down Pro Evolution before they put the last nail in the coffin of what 
 was and should still be a legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Quej
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  The PES games have always been as good if not better than the FIFA games for gameplay but they 
 have also always been let down by the lack of team & player licenses. PES 2009 is no different 
 I'm afraid. Gameplay as always is pretty good and the "become a legend" mode is a great addition 
 but once again, it is very badly let down by the lack of leagues and the astounding lack of team 
 licenses. Sorry but I just dont want to be playing for "Man Blue" or "London Reds". The franchise 
 has been going for a long time now and they really should have the proper licences by now.
  
  All in all, a decent game that is totally spoiled by what has been highlighted above. I would 
 say, stick to FIFA, until the PES team can get that sorted. There is not that much between the 
 two games on gameplay but FIFA wipes the floor with PES when it comes to Leagues and Team details. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMAC21
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, This game has had it's ups n' downs, The last two series have been amazingly bad 
 at some points, However although the same engine will always be used, This is the most inovative 
 and fun version of the PES series to date, Little perks have been added with linesman (for the 
 last two games) , Looking up when crossing the ball when running down the flanks and graphics looked 
 sharply inproved,
  
  The new Legends mode added is a bit of a sucess, You start off creating your own character then 
 playing for a unknown club to try to impress other managers, Also at the begining you choose the 
 league that you wish to join either Detuch, English, Italian or Spanish, You can also edit the 
 league to select whichever teams you wish to participate with, Then once you get yourself established 
 in a team, You start of slow to work yourself to the bench and then to the first team, Keep down 
 a regular place in the first team and at the end of each year, Your contract is up for renewal, 
 You can then either choose to join the other teams or perhaps take a contract extention, After 
 a couple of years and a run of good preformances, You maybe selected to play for you country in 
 World Cup or European tournements, Try to end your career collecting many medals and achivements,
 
  
  The Edit mode is also back to its best, With four different layers added to the kits, It allows 
 for much more customization than previous series, The badges/Kit labelling is much the same also 
 depending on the system, You can import Jpeg/Bitmap images to the game to create the sponsers for 
 the kits, One problem is no icons/badges can be added to the shorts, Only the number can be changed 
 (as well as the short design themselves)
  
  Master Leagues remains much the same but with view to keeping the interest going longer some perks 
 have been added to make the seasons seem more intersting, As before you can choose to take over 
 an existing team with default stats of the players, An existing team with the current stats of 
 the players or to create your team from scratch, However this mode only gives you made up players 
 with not very good stats, This mode has been in the PES Master League series for a few years and 
 recommend for the more experienced user (one of my favourites) ,
  
  One other fault with all the PES series is the music added to the game for the menus, It has always 
 been J-pop music and can get quite annoying after a while, Try to put up with it if you can,
  
  Track record system (added to the gallery on the last pro evo) keeps a record of your preformances 
 on the game, Wins, Losses, Draws, Goals Scored, Goals Conceeded, Keep an eye on this as this could 
 help you receive achivements or trophies, Depending on your gaming system,
  
  Overall, This game is starting to get back to its old form, This is still the best football game 
 around and has been for the last 5-6 years, Beating Fifa in graphics and gameplay, PES has never 
 had all the liecensing for the names, kits or badges but it has always made up for it in other 
 areas, True the passing has been tricky in previous series and can get very annoying at times but 
 most of the bugs have been smoothed out for this game, The series can only get better,
  
  More Liecensed teams please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GGDanny
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Well its here again PES 2009 and i was looking forward to this coming out.
  They have done quite a lot of changes in the core gameplay so the players were not like superman, 
 as they were in 2008's version. You do have to pass more and look for space which i think is better 
 in this years version. They have also changed the shooting in this version which i do not think 
 improves from last year. I think it is messed up, a high percentage of the shots go straight to 
 the keeper even when aiming in the corners. When you get in 1 v 1 situations with the keeper most 
 the shots go wide just past the post. Im sure people will just be saying i suck, but i have been 
 playing pes 2009 for weeks trying to perfect myself.
  Online now........... wow after last year they should have just worked on the online or something 
 because i think its pointless online on pes in recent years. The amount of bugs online is untrue 
 for example keepers watch balls when they are right next to them and easy to get. People will be 
 thinking yeah it makes it more realistic keepers making mistakes but this is beyond that. Its like 
 keeps are not switched on at all. Also online players and just get past with ease very hard to 
 get a tackle in online, its like a totaly different game when your online. Another let down was 
 the recent transfers were not done for release date but i hear are coming in Novermber with and 
 update on squads and tranfers.
  Konami have made and effort though "become a legend" mode is great i think and the edition of champions 
 league mode is a welcome addition. They could have done an "EA" and just released it separately 
 to make more money.
  
  Summary
  Gameplay - 7/10 except the shooting 2/10
  Online - 2/10
  Additions (become a legend/ champions league) - 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  This game to begin with deserves 8.0 for the reasons i will state. Firstly its the best game in 
 PES series and what a game it is with improved AI and more realistic football to its predecessors. 
 By PES is standards its a good game and its going to get better as Konami were recently dealing 
 with MGS4, and why not it was a really good game but that put Konami behind schedule which is why 
 its now going one step behind FIFA. 
  The new modes are a great addition to the series.
  The champions league mode doesnt consist of all the teams but so what! You can just pick which 
 one you want to be, just because its not on the champions league section doesnt mean its a terrible 
 game... it just comes down to who's lazy or not. The game mode is fun and more difficult then any 
 other mode in the game, Top Player wise. The opposition is much improved in the game mode and the 
 graphics look better too.
  Become a Legend mode = better then Be a Pro, and before you FIFA fans get angry at this let me 
 say why. Firstly WE began the one man season mode and PES 5 introduced the third person camera 
 view so if you think about it FIFA copied PES. The entire jist of Become a Legend is better too 
 as you can actually get substituted and you start from the very bottom. Contract signing is much 
 better the FIFA and the difficulty is even better as it takes dedication and consistency to stand 
 out from the others. There is a point system but it doesnt take points away for not running 40 
 yards in 2 seconds like in FIFA. And for those people who complain saying they never get the ball 
 its because you have to work for it. In reality people dont always pass it to you if you tell them 
 to, like FIFA, and when they do its because your playing good or you are good. There is more editing 
 options then FIFA and there are more stats to look at for your player.
  The masterleague is the same as last years but with a better negotiating system and better navigation. 
 
  Online mode has improved but is still not 100%... unlike FIFA. However gamespot go on as if it takes 
 years for you to get started when it only take 1 minute to get into a match. This year the only 
 thing saving online gameplay is Legends mode which puts 4 people against a computer... so online 
 is still not great.
  The graphics are good and better then last years but for the 100% graphics dont make a game. Yes 
 it would be nice if the game looks better but its the football which makes a footballing game, 
 something FIFA has to realise, although there AI is better.
  The layout of the menu is 1000 times better then PES 08 but the music is still terrible.
  
 
  Now the major downs:
  1. Your team mates hardly make runs.
  2. the game is trying too hard to be hard.
  3. The shooting is more realistic but its not PES 
 anymore.
  4. The music.
  5. Online play
  6. Konami is one step behind - improvment should be made and will be made but Konami have to work 
 twice as hard to win over FIFA fans and win back most PES fans because for some reason when i ask 
 someone what do you like more they say FIFA... wht? because it has better graphics and PES copied 
 FIFA...
  
  1. graphics dont make a footballing game football does.
  2. Everything which made PES good FIFA took
  eg holding down a trigger to run.
  BAL mode.
 
  freedom free kicks
  and many many more... thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bawbag08
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Pro evo 09 is a bit of a letdown i am a pro evo fan but have recently turned to fifa because of 
 the better gameplay but i still buy both hoping that pro evo will be better i was wrong.
  
  This year installment of pro evo is good but dosent really bring anything new to the table from 
 what i can see there are no big improvments to the gameplay they have just stuck with what they 
 new and havent done much to try and change it.
  
  I have always prefered pro evo to fifa but recently i have turned to fifa because of the difference 
 in gameplay. fifa over the past two years has made its game better and better it has improved the 
 game so much whereas pro evo has done anything in this one same gameplay same poor game modes master 
 league boring yawn not improved boring training mode and new be a legend be a pro from fifa except 
 they changed the word pro to legend hmmm lot of thought there and it is just a pro mans be a pro 
 very cheesey and boring. the music in the game is also very poor no real good artisit.
  
  Your probably wondering why did you give it 8 out of 10 they only reason i gave it 8 out of 10 
 is because i like preo evo and the gameplay if they never change i will still like the gameplay 
 but they havent bothered and pro evo needs a real overhaul if it wants to compete with fifa because 
 right now judging these two games there is no competition it is fif all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adsyan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  i have bought this game when it is released on 24th Oct. according to my experience after i have 
 been playing with my mate for hours, i think not only the graphic has been dramatically improved, 
 but also the gameplay is more real than previous one, especially the ball movement make me feel 
 more physical and practical. eventhough the general pace has been reduced, i think it make me feel 
 more real football. another thing make me excieted is that it is been offcially registered by Manchester 
 United which is one of my support team. also i even can play UEFA just as real one. can't all above 
 improved and new elements be proved it is indeed a great game ever? i don't understand and surprise 
 why it is been given a unfair score by so called reviwer from gamespot. may be it is due to they 
 have got too many doctor degrees so that they forget what is the reality of the world. shame of 
 them! therefore, what i suggest is if you want to play real football, please go for PES 2009! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenal4eva17
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  Define tly a great game you should buy this football game. this years pro evolution soccer brings 
 bk the fun factor just like pes 5, the edit mode is great just like pes 5, the graphics are much 
 better, finally the AI is good. i also like the fact the game is not very easy u have work for your 
 goal, champions league mode looks good, once u get into the game u just want to keep playing it. 
 the only negatives are the transfers for the premier league, there could of been more teams in 
 the game, u cant be fix goalie, at least 3 licenced premier league teams its always 2 licenced teams, 
 Germany team have fake names which is embarrassing for the game but it might not be perfect a few 
 improvement next years gem will be perfect. This year the fifa vs pro evolution battle will go down 
 to the wire i rekon pro sneaked it because of fifa card hungry refs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris-Parker
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of pro evo since the beginning and I was really hoping for a massive improvement 
 after last years failure. 
  
  The game play isn't much dissimilar from last year, it seems a little more polished and doesn't 
 seem to suffer from that dreaded lag, which often occurred around the penalty box during a corner. 
 
  
  One thing that did stand out is the changes to computer AI, you now get much less time on the ball 
 and scoring is much harder. I personally think they may have gone a little far this time as it's 
 removed some of the fun from the game.
  
  The Champions league tournament is a great addition to PES 09, its just a shame they haven't included 
 all the teams, which seems crazy but typical of Pro Evo.
  
  Be a legend, is a total waste of time. As you spend 99% of the time training and 1% playing games. 
 This mode allows you to create your own player, you can decide position, height, weight etc..!. 
 Once you've setup your player you next play a friendly game which scouts attend, and judging on 
 your debut performance you get offered a respective contract at a club. In my case I got offered 
 a place at Man City, I immediately thought great i'm a striker so I should score plenty..... err 
 yeah right! At this point I should point out that you only get control of you and not the whole 
 team which i think is madness. The in game camera angle defaults on player cam, which I find very 
 hard to use as you spend half your time looking around trying to follow the ball, you can adjust 
 the camera to the usual wide cam although you miss half the game when the balls down the other 
 end of the pitch. To be honest though it dosen't matter which camera angle you have because nobody 
 passes you the ball anyway. I've being playing this mode for around 5 hours now and have only played 
 two games. Maybe its me being rubbish or maybe this modes just a complete waste of time, see for 
 yourselves, but im sure many will agree its the later. 
  
  Lastly, and for me the most important, is the licensing or lack of it. I honestly cannot understand 
 why they still cant get the rights for all the teams within the game. I mean i recently bought 
 a footy game for my mobile which managed to include more official Premier League team names and 
 players. Cmon Pro Evo this license joke has gone on long enough! Also it's very frustrating when 
 you discover a player which moved clubs in the summer, but has been missed in the game. Its probably 
 a deadline issue but one which continues to affect Pro Evo but not Fifa. 
  
  Generally this game is good, and is improved greatly with the addition of the champions league 
 mode but it just let's itself down with the be a legend feature and the continued lack of licensing. 
 I think Konami could do much better.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulio77
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  For me Pes/ISS has always been the light that carried on from were Sensible Soccer left off. However 
 i can no longer over look the faults with the game. As i seem to have done ever since the game 
 hit 2nd gen consoles. It no longer feels as slick and as smooth as it use to. The become a legend 
 mode is rubbish and i mean who wants to sit on the bench waiting for a game and then when yopu 
 get on you actually only have about 3 touches. This Seriously crosses the line that seperates fun 
 and boring. I have had enough of Konamis Lazyness and in-ability to listen to the fans. I am one 
 of many Fans i think who will be boycotting the series until KONAMI sort there act out. Shall i 
 try FIFA? Well i did........... Improved since thye last time i played it but still not a touch 
 on what pes was. To sum up my  Maybe it's time for another 
 series to take the market by storm.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panakas
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Oh my god Konami! You managed to kill pes! this is awful! Oh my god! I don't know where to start from!
 
  Be a legend? A copy paste of Fifas Be a pro... But...
  You only control your player (1) ! And the other players on the pitch don't even notice you!! You will 
 keep pressing all the buttons and even when you are on your own they wont pass the f@~: ball! You 
 cant tell them to pass, tackle NOTHING! And if you are a bench player you have to watch all the game 
 without doing anything! OH MY GOD!
  About Champions League?
  ONLY 24 out of 32 teams are in that mode!
  Where is arsenal? Where are all the Champions League 
 teams....? As for the game play? Its slower... The players run like robots... I can only say that pes 
 is gettinh more arcade every year... WHY!?!
  As for the team line-ups and players?
  Berbatov is in Tottenham...
  Robinhio in Real...
  I payed for a game that is NOT up to date? And 
 only 4 leagues are for me to play? And not all the teams are licensed? Sorry but this isnt the game 
 I used to play and love when I was younger... (iss-pes-wes)
  KONAMI you really killed this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heapy83
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  2009 is on the horizon and that means the influx of games released pre Christmas and it also means 
 the Fifa vs Pro Evo battle commences. I've always been a die hard Pro Evo fan and having played 
 both Fifa 2009 and PES 2009 there's no change, as a football sim PES still comes out on top for 
 me. If slick graphics and full licencing is your cup of tea then stick with Fifa, if you prefer 
 to play a football games that each year gets closer and closer to the real thing then PES wins 
 hands down. On the surface it looks like not much has changed but after a few hours playing you'll 
 be in awe as you receive the ball shimmy past 2 opponents and roll the ball into the bottom corner 
 if the net, the movement is so much more fluid and the passing feels direct and tidy. Scoring goals 
 if also much harder, the opponent a. i has been vastly improved which makes for a much more challenging 
 experience. All this added to the Champions League licencing, become a Pro mode, much improved 
 editing features and improved online play equates to a much better effort than 2008, roll on PES 
 2010! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360-reviews
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Ok i think ill get straight to the point with this game. Basically to me anyway, its pes2008 with 
 a little bit of sheen, same graphics engine tweaked, a couple of new game modes chucked in and 
 ofcourse the 'FULLY LICENCED CHAMPIONS LEAGUE MODE'', or so you would think after reading in previews. 
 I found out from other websites after it had been stated, that it wasn't fully licenced, which 
 actually made sense becausas if they would they would manage to get the likes of arsenal, chelsea 
 and all the other big clubs, its just another example of Konami's lazyness, although i suppose 
 it can be built on for next years version. Anyway all the game modes are quite fun. I especially 
 like the BAL mode in which similar to fifa's be a pro, you control one player on the pitch and 
 actually on pes you can do an unlimited amount of seasons where fifa is 4. This mode is expanded 
 into another mode called Legends where you can take a player online and compete with other people, 
 and its fun, and from the games i played the experience was exceptable with hardly any lag. Apart 
 from that you have all the usual game modes and an expanded edit mode which i dont have room to 
 explain, but its alot better than last year. If theres one thing anoying me about pro evo is that 
 i have invested my cash in a nextgen console, YES NEXT GEN!!!!, but i pay for a game that is in 
 theory, still a ps2 game?, strange i know but pes still gives me satisfaction when i score a goal. 
 This years version is what we should have got last year and its great, but in the sense that its 
 more of a super patch to 08. Although this year is the recovering year for konami, next year i 
 want to see something BIG AND I MEAN BIG! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
