-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pro Evolution Soccer 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/pes2008/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some refinement in terms of playability.
 Opponent artificial intelligence mixes up playing styles.
 Certain players look realistic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Adds no new features to last year's game.
 Still lags online.
 Poor presentation in every respect.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.5, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 884 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Mar 11, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Konami's seventh Pro Evolution Soccer is a small improvement in terms of playability, but there's 
 little else to make it worth the upgrade. 

  UK REVIEW -- Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer was already looking a little stretched last year, and 
 the 2008 edition takes the series to the breaking point. Instead of improving on last year's game, 
 it offers no noteworthy new features. Some of the smaller gameplay tweaks make the game more enjoyable 
 to play overall, but an equal number are frustrating and feel unnecessary, while the subpar online 
 mode of last year's game has barely been improved. It makes you wonder what Shingo Takatsuka and 
 his team have been doing for the past year.  

           Players can now dive in an attempt to draw a foul.      

  The biggest upgrade for 
 the game is supposedly the new Teamvision artificial intelligence system, although its claims to 
 revolutionise the playing experience prove to be overstated. Computer-controlled opponents are 
 slightly more intelligent when it comes to changing playing styles, although defenders still feel 
 a little bit superhuman in their ability to resist attack. Overall, the game feels more flowing 
 than last year, but rather than feeling revolutionary, the improvement just feels like a return 
 to the earlier glory of the series. In fact, the immediate changes feel so minor that even hardcore 
 fans of the series will have trouble picking them out. The ball feels slightly weightier and players 
 move with more physicality. They also tussle with each other more, pulling shirts and out-muscling 
 each other over the ball. It adds up to a more natural-feeling game this year, and one that still 
 plays an accomplished game of football. Anyone who hasn't played Pro Evolution Soccer will find 
 that this is still a solidly playable game, but long-term fans may wonder what Konami's done this 
 year to deserve the 50 upgrade fee.  

  Many of the new gameplay tweaks are actually more annoying than they are welcome. Goalkeepers now 
 fumble the ball with infuriating regularity, and the fast pace now makes Pro Evo feel more like 
 an arcade game rather than a simulation. Another new feature that betrays the game's simulation 
 roots is the ability to make your players take a dive. It's something that undoubtedly happens 
 in the real world, but its inclusion in a serious video game could be seen to tarnish an otherwise 
 respectful representation of the sport. Used in the penalty area the dive can win penalties, and 
 while it's only successful in the minority of cases, it could be used to tip the balance of the 
 game. We expect that discerning gamers will shun the new skill out of sportsmanship, but it'll 
 be a real shame if faceless online players manage to win games by effectively employing the tactic. 

  Last year's online offering was fairly lamented by gamers, at first for being unplayable and then 
 for being slow. It's therefore disappointing to see how little things have changed in the new version. 
 Lag still affected many of the games we played, and while it's nowhere nearly as bad as the PlayStation 
 3 version, the problems still need to be addressed. The only game modes are ranked and player matches. 
 Thus, the complete lack of online leagues and tournaments is restrictive when compared with many 
 other sports games on the market. Aside from the somewhat patchy performance and lack of game modes, 
 Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is also lacking when it comes to overall Internet functionality. There 
 are no real-world score tickers, no news feeds, and no squad updates -- features that the rival FIFA 
 series has been offering for two years now. There are a number of very noticeable product placements 
 for various Web sites, but this advertising-only arrangement has produced no content that's fed 
 into the game. At a time when rival sports games feature an assortment of online multimedia updates 
 throughout the year, Konami's complete lack of extras feels backward in comparison.  

           There is a lack of licensed teams, but some player images are realistic.      

  As 
 usual, the Master League mode is the main challenge for the single-player mode. As well as being 
 able to play through a series of proper football seasons, the Master League offers up basic management 
 functions that include training and transfers. This year, players also talk to the media and do 
 interviews, although as with every other part of the Master League, this pales in comparison to 
 dedicated management games. While it's not really trying to compete with such games as Football 
 Manager, many of the tasks feel like distractions from the main job of playing the league itself. 
 Basically, the Master League is the same as it's been in previous versions. True, signing talent 
 is an important part of winning, but it simply isn't in-depth enough to warrant spending lots of 
 time on training and scouting. The main idea is to perfect your starting lineup, get your players 
 in a decent formation, and play well on the pitch.  

  Presentation has never been Pro Evolution Soccer's strong point, and the 2008 version does little 
 to break with tradition. The lack of polish used to be acceptable, thanks to the excellent playability 
 of the game, but it's becoming increasingly unforgivable. The menu system is basic and unwelcoming, 
 while the soundtrack tries to span genres but is awful throughout. The majority of teams also don't 
 feature the official kits. This will be a familiar problem to fans, but Konami's selection is becoming 
 increasingly schizophrenic. English Premier League teams Newcastle and Tottenham are now included, 
 but at the expense of Manchester United and Arsenal, who are out since the last game. We assume 
 that Newcastle was included thanks to star striker Michael Owen adorning the cover of the game, 
 but the same theory doesn't apply to Christiano Ronaldo and Manchester United (who are named "Man 
 Red") . There are only 15 stadiums, and although Mark Lawrenson is now onboard as a commentator, 
 his contributions are as frequently inaccurate as his predecessor's comments. However, the Xbox 
 360 version does have some bonuses over the PlayStation 3 iteration. Firstly, it runs in 1080p, 
 whereas the PlayStation 3 doesn't even support this display mode and is jerky even running in 720p. 
 Secondly, you can use a Live Vision camera to scan logos and faces into the game, although the 
 results are somewhat low-res in the game.  

           Determined players will out-muscle their opponents.      

  Pro Evolution Soccer 2008's 
 graphics are all over the place. The Xbox 360 version has the appearance of an upscaled Xbox game, 
 but apart from fewer jagged edges, there's little to show off the new console's power. It also 
 looks more washed-out and less sharp than the PlayStation 3 version of the game. There's little 
 in the way of detail or incidental effects, such as true cloth deformation, video walls, or goalkeeper 
 head protection. On the other hand, certain player likenesses, such as the aforementioned Christiano 
 Ronaldo, are very realistic. We also like the fact that the referee can be seen on pitch, although 
 waiting the few seconds for him to blow his whistle for free kicks is detrimental to the pace of 
 the game.  

  Ultimately, the success of Pro Evolution Soccer is a paradox for the game's designers. It's difficult 
 to improve on the standard that was achieved with the fifth version of the game, but the designers 
 could certainly start by introducing some next-gen features to the Xbox 360. Konami has tried to 
 make subtle changes to the gameplay, some of which are successful and some of which are not. However, 
 what the game really needs is new modes, features, and online offerings to warrant the upgrade, 
 as well as bring it in-line with other Xbox 360 sports offerings. It will be quite a task, but 
 next year's game needs to deliver all this and more if it's to retain its massive fan base.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  Wheres liverpool! i really wan't them now it's starting to get frustrating.
  There is not so much special with this game. I played this game last year. Just some graphics and 
 other small stuff.
  Well i can stil play it but i think fifa 08 is better. there are nothing that is pointing out. 
 Nothing that is special that i would by it if i didn't alredy by'ed it.
  
  ok, lets see some + sides 
  -online playing some new stuff 
  -Master leuge are little special 
 too what it was last year 
  -Gallery (you can see saved goals and stats) 
  
  and some - sides 
  -Same as last year (not much changed) 
  -No Liverpool! 
  
  
  otherwise 
 it's ok works to play. I have playd much worser games in my days. (Just 13 but any way it sounds 
 so cool)
  
  if you don't like sccer you shouldn't by it but if you do by it but get fifa 08 first
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiagopati
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I've been addicted to this series from it's third release and I can't say it didn't disappoint 
 me the few - and minor - details that this 2008 game brought on to both the PS2 and the X360. However 
 it wouldn't be fair to give it a lesser rating as all the prior games deserved a right placed and 
 unanimous 90+ rate and (for me) this one has been - and still is sometimes, as by the time I'm 
 writing these words I haven't got the 2009 pack or even tried it at all - an extremely fun and 
 addictive form of entertainment to spend a handful of hours with. 
  Some say Fifa made it last year and would be back on top but I have to say it - as a former Fifa 
 addict - that PES still develops better and flows better. The speed is certainly higher and that 
 is a critical point in what comes to fun and entertainment. By what I see here on GS, by the comments 
 and reviews other players made on this game, I can say that I'm really a PES lover and fan and 
 probably won't step back to EA's long timed gold medalist in the nearest future. The goal scoring 
 in what refers to shots from distance is also much more spectacular and enthusiastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is supposed to be one of the best soccer games created. The total opposite 
 that happened. It is one of the worst sport games that i have even played. For starters, the game 
 is the same as last year, with a few new features. A new career mode has been made, where you can 
 go through seasons trading players and changing teams. To be honest, it's just like manager mode 
 but they have just changed the name. In this mode, you start out at the crap teams and work your 
 way up to the top of the Serie A or the Barclay's Premier League.
  
  
  If you are to compare the graphics to Fifa 08, PES with get thumped. This year, PES has gone for 
 a cartoon look? It is worthless. Some new controls modes and new controls have come in. Such as 
 diving and and shooting techniques.
  
  The customization mode is up to standards and i like the boots that you can have. But, Fifa 08 
 wins in this department as well, with over a hundred boot and hair styles.
  
  Overall, if you want the total soccer experience, go for Fifa 08, not some crappy PES 2008!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikuide_Furame
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  The Pro Evolution Soccer series has been at the forefront of football games for a while now. I've 
 been an avid fan since it's first iteration way back on the Playstation. However in recent years, 
 FIFA's sharp improvement combined with PES's lackluster performances has meant that it now seems 
 to be on the bench more than the pitch. I would love to say that PES 2008 is different; that it's 
 a trip back down memory lane - but it's not.
  
  First off whilst there have been some improvements in the animation and graphics department, PES 
 still looks like the ugly sister of FIFA. This is further help by the fact that, yet again, many 
 of the top teams (mainly the english teams) feature in incomplete and unlisenced kits. Player models 
 are nothing to write home about either. Sure, you can recognise the big players like Messi, Kaka 
 and Ronaldo but from there on in it's just models that bare almost no resemblance to their counterparts. 
 Whats worse is that the crowds and stadium still look terrible - in the cutscenes they are much 
 improved but during play they could be mistaken for Playstation 2 graphics.
  
  However, as most fans of Konami's juggernaut will tell you, we don't play PES for the graphics; 
 FIFA's long been the better of the two. We play PES for the gameplay and sadly even that is not 
 up to much this year. All in all the game feels much faster and smother than PES 6 (2007) but this 
 feeling is completely destroyed by the number of infuriating errors that are made during the game. 
 For all of Konami's preaching about their AI system, it's really not up to much. Your fellow players 
 are so unreliable that it makes tasks doubly hard - especially defending. And on the occasions 
 when they make the run you want them to, breaking right through the defence, you press the through 
 ball button to find that your player strokes the ball nearer to the defenders that his own teammate.
 
  
  Worse still, some of the commands just have not been thought out by Konami. An example of this 
 occurs if you try to perform the aerial through ball (LB + Y) . You see a man making the run just 
 after you've passed to one player, so in order to make sure that as soon as he collects the ball 
 he performs an aerial through ball to the runner, you press the LB + Y combination, however because 
 the player does not yet have the ball (and that LB changes your player) you will find that you 
 lose control of him. These may seem like small complaints but they really do crop up far too often 
 and hamper the gameplay. On the harder difficulties where you can spend a few minutes creating 
 that perfect opening it is such a smack in the face to find that your player just make a terrible 
 pass.
  
  In terms of lifespan there is plenty to do - Master League returns along with plenty of leagues 
 and cups to keep you amused. And once the game is no longer a challenge you can take your team 
 online. Certainly earning all 1000 achievement points won't be an easy feat - one achievement requires 
 you to win every cup and league along with several other requirements. It's certainly value for 
 your money is this respect at least.
  
  Don't get me wrong, PES 2008 is still a good football game - you just somehow feel that it really 
 could have been so much more if Konami had ironed out the tiny flaws that are so prominent that 
 they really do hide the game's beauty. It's like watching Ronaldo skip past three defenders before 
 faking out the keeper, only to shoot over the bar. That's what PES 2008 feels like - like it never 
 really hits the back of the net but the build-up play is not bad at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattVans
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  Oh dear Konami, oh dear indeed. I've been a fan of Pro Evo (aka I. S. S) since the N64. I've always 
 gone for Pro Evo over Fifa.
  
  So when Pro Evo was finally coming out for the 360 I was like "Wow, finally a next gen Pro Evo. 
 How good will this finally be!?".
  
  Using the term "Total ***king letdown" would be an understatement. They have truly butchered it. 
 GONE! are the flowing and fluid movements of the players. Sometimes players seem to just stop when 
 running towards the opposition (wierd and annoying) . Sometimes it seems a struggle to handle a 
 player.
  
  I think to hit the nail on the head. You are never in total control of the team. You never seem 
 to be "The Twelve Man" (Nod to Fifa there) .
  
  Sometimes the old Pro Evo comes through when some passes come together fluidly and your player 
 just doesn't decide to stand still for some unkown reason.
  
  If this game was Pro Evo 2005 or 06 then I wouldn't have moaned so much but i've never seen a game 
 go so far backwards.
  
  I haven't even mentioned how last gen' the graphics still seem. They would like right at home on 
 the original Xbox but on the 360!!?? Just look at Fifa 08 and you get to see exactly what the 360 
 is capable of.
  
  Which brings me onto my final point. I hate to say it (sorry Konami but it's your own doing) . This 
 year, for me, Fifa wins without question due to Konamis own goal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammer13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  As usual, Pro Evo plays a realistic and fun game of soccer (football) but i feel this years version 
 doesn't really make it worth the money. You could buy last years game for half the price, with 
 the same stuff. Without comparing it to last years game, pro evo does have good qualities. I also 
 own Fifa 08 and can definately say that pro evo doesn't come close as far as graphic qualities 
 are concerned. What i have always liked about the series is the ai and how well the computer players 
 play. until this year when fifa earned their respect from me back.
  The audio is good and is one thing that is better than that of fifa. I prefer the larger selection 
 of teams and leagues that fifa has to offer, but pro evo does give you a good selection. This years 
 installment is somewhat disappointing but i prefer fifa if you can't tell already.
  Not as good as fifa 08, but thats just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehAssassin8
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 has advanced only slightly from the previous years edition. I marvel 
 the squad additions and there is now more players with the correct names than ever before. I feel 
 the game lacks in the national teams department where not enough teams are licensed. Onto graphics, 
 I don't think that the graphics are upto the standard that the Fifa Graphics are yet though, Fifa 
 is a series that has been producing football games for a longer time and is streaks ahead in the 
 business. The graphics have improved since PES6 though.
  
  The gameplay has always been fantastic though, it is great gameplay once again and it is difficult 
 to comment on without the use of images.
  
  Online play is superb accept when you play people with bad connections. If you ahve bad connections 
 then the game lags and the ball lags, its difficult because you've won the ball in a tackle and 
 then suddenly they're one on one with the keeper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoz_dawg
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I love pro evo games. Some of my fondest memories are of pro evo game with my cousin and brother. 
 And when i saw this at my EB 50% off i shrilled with excitement. I had only read the ign. com reveiw 
 and they gave it an 8 something so i was excited. But then when i found out that ign sponsered 
 it, i became a tad worried.
  
  First of the menu screen is arcadic. Its an ancient way f presentation that you would expect from 
 a N64 game. The graphics are also terrible. The players look okay but everything else screams last 
 gen. One particular annoyance is the way the grass a metre or so above the ball is all low resolution. 
 Then as the ball moves closer it becomes normal again. Its one quirk that is jarring and incredibly 
 annoying.
  
  Gameplay has also become more arcadey then last installments, which shows its tilt towards a fifa 
 style of game. There are once agin no EPL teams, which is another setback. ALTHOUGH i havnt had 
 as much fun with my bro in ages. Pro Evo still rains supreme in offline muliplayer. 
  
  But thats not enough to save this game. Later today im going to take this back and get skate. If 
 you are new to the series check it out because you might fall in love. But if you've played any 
 other Pro Evo stay away, stay far away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elithesp
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  First things first. I'm a soccer fan. I play the game, I love the game. Therefore, I've stuck with 
 Pro Evo through the years because the gameplay was so PERFECT every year. With last year's edition, 
 I recognized that the graphics were finally oudtated and FIFA's presentation and Licenses gave 
 most gamers good reason to choose FIFA instead. But, I stayed with Pro Evo because, like I said, 
 the gameplay was just so good, so deep, so realistic, and no goal was EVER the same as any before 
 it. 
  
  I've waited patiently for Pro Evo 08, as FIFA's been out a while. I've had Pro Evo now for a little 
 while, and sadly I'll be selling it back to the video game store for FIFA.
  
  To break it down simply:
  
  Pro's:
  Still great ball mechanics. 
  Improved play calling.
 
  Extremely deep controls
  Still feels like Konami's main focus was creating a simulation of the sport rather than just some 
 flashy sport game.
  
  Con's: 
  There is just no excuse for Konami not giving this game a COMPLETE cosmetic makeover. The graphics 
 and presentation are POOR at best.
  The club management side of the game is lacking in almost every department-Konami should have updated 
 this after last year.
  The Gameplay took a step backwards: Players run on rails, regardless of where the ball is going. 
 Changing players is still a pain. Too many goals off corners and crosses. Gameplay itself does 
 not feel as polished as previous years. 
  
  And I finally played on live. It was such a bad experience (laggy, poor controls) that I'll never 
 play it on live again.
  
  Most of all: Gameplay has become stale. 
  
  My problem with fifa had always been that the gameplay wasn't deep and that you could figure out 
 the formula for scoring goals and rack up the score every time you play. 
  
  Here's to hoping FIFA's great presentation is matched by deep, simulation style gameplay that WAS 
 the hallmark of Pro Evo for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaik
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 1:45 am PT
Review:  First of all i haven't played the series since PES'5 on ps2 and pc. Me and my colleagues had plenty 
 of fun with that game, you probably know what i mean. Recently i bought myself a xbox and was wondering 
 whether to buy PES2008 since the reviews all over the internet were mediocre.
  I must say i don't regret buying it! This game sucks You in like no other, especially when you 
 are a soccer fan!
  
  GAMEPLAY
  It's a good old PES, the best soccer game in the world, what else could You want? In short: master 
 league, tricks, achievements, AI, gameplay mechanics, multiplayer and more!
  
  GRAPHICS
  I like it, it's a fast paced sport game so dont expect fireworks. However the faces of players 
 are great - good job. My only concern are frame rate drops in replays and occasionally during the 
 game.
  
  MUSIC
  Could be better but once again - its a soccer game.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  Playing PES against your friend is a blast! Xbox Live is also fantastic, You just select quick 
 match and in a seconds You are playing against someone!
  
  If You are looking for a best soccer game in the world, look no further, PES2008 is out!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris_53
Rating: 6
Date: May 14, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Pro Evolution soccer has always been well known for its fantastic realistic approach to modern 
 football, and has always outdone FIFA in that aspect. 
  
  However, this latest addition to the series is a huge disappointment which is a real shame since 
 it was looking to promising in the development stage. 
  
  First thing, Konami has introduced a system called "team vision" which is suppose to adapt to the 
 style of which you are playing, in order to make the game more challenging. Simply however, this 
 is just not the case, and even on the hardest skill level, you can get away with simply passing 
 the ball around your own half and then lumping a through ball down the wing since it's guaranteed 
 that soon enough, a winger will become totally unmarked, and this is the case throughout the entire 
 match. 
  
  Another real game play flaw is the fact that the opposition defensive A. I. is horrendously bad, 
 so often you will notice defenders try to dribble the ball out of defence and your strikers will 
 just nip in, win the ball and have a one on one chance at goal. 
  
  Graphically, the game looks awful, it really just looks like a polished up PS2/XBOX game, but in 
 high definition, and if your playing on a standard definition television, it looks just like an 
 old previous generation game. What really shocks me about the presentation is just how bad the 
 frame-rate is during replays, it is literally at about 5 frames per second, and it looks like a 
 slideshow, or stop frame animation. This is down to the game being poorly optimised, and its the 
 same on both PS3 and XBOX 360. In terms of sound, well it sounds as flat as ever, it is almost 
 like an old 16 bit mega drive game, seriously, I am not joking. 
  
  Let's look at a few positives, well sometimes the game is fun, and two player is a blast and is 
 arguably the best asset this game has going for it, I have not tried online multiplayer. 
  
  Now the master league, this has been Pro Evos main feature throughout the series, but just 
 lately, we have been presented with the same old master league mode with no new additions what 
 so ever, apart from there are now 20 teams in each league, including division 2. The game does 
 lot let you select which kit to play in before a match so you will often find yourself playing 
 in your away strip and the opposition in their home kit, this isn't really a major issue, but never 
 less, extremely annoying, and the player fitness levels seem to be totally random as well which 
 is such a cruel tease. 
  
  Overall, this latest addition to the Pro Evolution Soccer series is simply a mediocre game, with 
 no new features and a shoddy game engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saitken
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 22, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  It seems that all of the focus goes towards making new graphics and no thought whatever goes towards 
 improving the gameplay. Basically the best games in the line came out 3 or 4 years ago and have 
 gone downhill since then. I find on Master League that with the defualt team you can run no further 
 than a couple feet before a superpowered com defender flied in, slide tackles you and runs the 
 other way with the ball. that or you have less than a second to make a crappy, slow pass that another 
 com player intercepts. Also, its super frustrating in that every tipped or blocked ball goes straight 
 to the computer. i can't count how many times around my box i'll block 3 or 4 shots or passes and 
 every one lands a the computers feet. or how many times a no one name player has ran the length 
 of the field weaving in and out my entire team while i chase right behind him. i am definately 
 done with this series and will be moving to fifa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  Last years Pro Evolution Soccer already like a stretched game, but Konami instead of improving 
 the formula, added no new features to their popular soccer simulator. In all, the overstatements 
 on the talents and the neglecting of things that needed change make this a second place finisher 
 to FIFA 08.
  
  Supposedly, the largest upgrade this year was supposed to be something called "Teamvision Artificial 
 Intelligence System". This is true to a certain extent, the computer opponents are slighty more 
 intelligent when creating plays, but the defending is still a little overpowered in their way to 
 stop advances. 
  
  The game did come with some new features, some that are more annoying perhaps than realistic. Goalkeepers 
 play "hot-potato" an awful amount with the ball, and players now have the ability to dive when 
 being jostled with the ball. As if soccer's reputation wasn't bad enough in this continent. Because 
 of these dives, its like a run-of-the-mill game in the Serie A where players dive in the 16th to 
 get a penalty.
  
  The games multiplayer was a lot like last year, slow as hell. Lag affects seemingly everyone in 
 these multiplayer showdowns. If anything truly right was done this year, it was the addition of 
 some fully licensed teams. While the majority of the English league maintains fictitious names, 
 certain small league teams such as Dinamo Zagreb (WOOT) and Bayern Munchen are fully licensed.
 
  
  The addition of some teams is a good upgrade for any sports game, but the lankiness of this years 
 PES 2008 no longer makes Konami's soccer simulator the benchmark of soccer games, as FIFA at least 
 momentarily, is the victor. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the game is out for any of the Winning Eleven freaks. Now this time around its called Pro 
 Evolution Soccer 2008. In my opinion the game its better than the review written by Guy Cocker. 
 No disrespect but ,he is a FIFA fan and this is only mi opinion ,but the game its easy to control 
 and the most important thing the game play its fluid. I have not played the ps3 version yet. Since 
 I am a 360 aficionado I am only to address the good points and bad points to end this review.
 
  
  New interface, New Graphics, some original players like Cristiano Ronaldo (Portugal) , and Ronaldio 
 (Brazil) , This time around they tussle with each other more by pulling shirts and outmuscling each 
 other over the ball. It gives the game play a more natural feeling. They point is that it feels 
 great to play and thats the point. On the other hand the lack of on line play it may be a downside 
 but since i rather play coop. Konami should have taken advantage of the 360 performance to improve 
 the graphics a bit. All around for all the soccer fans out there this game its a must have. 
  
  Luis Baquerizo
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L3gendK1ller
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The more they come out, The more i hate them, Same play, still unlicensed and unlicensed things 
 are fake. FIFA 08 wins it for me this year again. Pro has the ability to be the best footy game 
 ever made but every year is the same at least FIFA add something new every year. Poor in my mind 
 and well the hype defo is stupid. The unlicense is starting to get silly and i got tired of the 
 master league on pro 2, FIFA has more teams and players and a more releastic season made which 
 keeps u playing all day long. PRO IS FAKE, FAKE AND EVEN MORE FAKE THAN JORDANS BOOBS. Hell Yea. 
 Well i this review is short but its easy to describe how bad pro is so im gonna finish off with 
 some .s  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razzabazza
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 29, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Like many other pro fans, i was expecting something great, especially with the addition of the 
 Teamvision AI. 
  While it does play well on occasions, there are an unnecessary amount of poor elements.
  For 
 example, I have seen, on many occasions, the goalkeeper saving the ball without actually touching 
 it. Konami's addition of 'Force' powers for goalkeepers is unwelcome. Also, the goalkeepers are 
 generally pathetic in the handling abilities. Many shots from as far back as the half-way line 
 are often fumbled and result in a corner.
  Plus, the foul system needs to be adjusted. Many times the players are allowed to get away with 
 blue murder, severly injuring my players, and not even getting cautioned.
  The only consaltion is that (at least for the 360) the master league has been improved in many 
 ways, not least the inclusion of team and player popularity.
  However, on the main menu it seems Konami have forgotten to add 'Random Selection Match' mode for 
 the 360. As this is a great mode for the PS2, I was shocked to see a lack of it on the 360.
  
  This game is a real disapointment, and Konami need to get up and do something, before FIFA 
 blows this out of the water. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  I own this game for a few months now, and I have to be honest: I have a very good time with it. 
 Anybody who is familiar with the pro evo series will know what I mean with the briliant master 
 league mode and the fast and frantic football gameplay. Knowing that I never owned a pro evo game 
 before, everybody can guess I am having a good time. The graphics are good, the sound and commentary 
 are great in my opinion, and there are several ways to customize your team.
  I thought this was the perfect football game, until I went online.
  
  I still have a great 
 time with this one, but the online system sucks! There is just too much lag, it happens a lot of 
 time that, because of a bug, you lose the ball, and just a few matches play pretty well. If this 
 worked, it would be the perfect game, now, it's "just" a great football game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theUbiq
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  crackeyes298 has said nothing about the gameplay but a lot about Konami not having licenses etc'. 
 One question for you crackeyes298, don't you know that EA care only about making as much money 
 as possible by milking their FIFA license? This is why they regularly, sometimes twice a year, 
 release football (soccer to the yanks) games to take advantage of their license. Maybe next time 
 you could play the game a little? The online play in this title does not match up optionwise to 
 FIFA and can be a little laggy but it has improved dramatically since the last update. The gameplay 
 is smooth and on the highest difficulty a real challenge especially if you don't play as one of 
 the major soccer powers, ie' Barcelona. All in all, a worthy update to the fanchise. I would strongly 
 recommend this over FIFA especially now that that the update has been released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crackeyes298
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  I knew Konami would run out of ideas. They dont even have all the licensed teams from all of the 
 top leagues in the World. That really says they truly suck at making football simulations. You 
 would expect better but really they suck and they can't make the same games they used to in the 
 earlier years.
  And that shows the resiliency of the FIFA franchise. FIFA has dominated the industry for years 
 and it has always been that way for years and years to come. Konami is trying to rip people off 
 with their fake crap just like last years not substance PES 07 game that had not one ounce of substance 
 to it. They didnt even make a festive game for the World Cup. I think EA has simply cornered the 
 market for video games now that Konami is out of the way. Not even "Snake" can touch that. The 
 only thing EA has to do now is keep the franchise going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iqen
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 could possibly be called one of the best soccer games to come out on 
 the 360 yet.
  The smooth controls of the game and astonishing visuals leaves something for all soccer fans to 
 love. Highly realistic gameplay and animation makes one truly feel into the game. The graphics 
 of the game is also extremely impressive, and player visuals are somewhat decent though. The true 
 source of the game, however, lies on the gameplay. The players smooth movements and a great amount 
 of tricks to perform in the game make it all worthwhile. The new AI system also adds up to the 
 fun with it's intelligent and effective system.
  The many amount of modes such as the Master League mode, where one can craft up his own team and 
 compete it in various championships, can keep one enjoying the game for a long time. Pro Evolution 
 Soccer 2008's slight and main problem of the game is that it contains some similarities to it's 
 predecessor, nevertheless it still could be called a worthy, solid sequel and proves to be a good 
 example of how soccer games should be.
  
  In Conclusion:
  ~ Pro's ~
  - Smooth and efficient controls -
  - Great Variety of modes -
  - Splendid dribbles and tricks 
 -
  
  ~ Con's ~
  - Does have some simliarities to it's prequel -
  - Some teams remain unlicensed -
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: al_bared
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  first of all i would like to say i have been playing Pro Evo or winning eleven for nearly 10 years 
 ever since winning eleven 2 on ps, i would like to say WINNING ELEVEN don't change much from each 
 game they just fix the mistakes its not some shooter game when u can add new weapons its a football 
 game the things they added here are Superb.
  
  Master League: i havn't tried the master league in pro evo 6 but i tried it in all the others this 
 is allot better where players growth is great u can trade players and actually the computer can 
 offer u a player u want tried buying to buy ur players.
  
  Online gaming : the first time i played it i nearly broke my Xbox and the game my favorite thing 
 in pro evo 6 was the online gaming as it is more challenging the first few times i played i lost 
 because of the lagging then they fixed it , it still lags a bit depending on the connection at 
 least now u can do what u intendted doing dribbles tricks passes one two's first touch shooting.
 
  i also enjoy the connection status on the online gamming.
  
  Now to the gameplay this has been the biggest feature i think is defense organization when u played 
 the old one the defense used to just go crazy left back will go right and leave their positions 
 while now they are more organized, my other favorite feature is player go up where u can pick up 
 to 3 player to go up in corners and FKs u can't imagine how many goals i got with defenders sadly 
 this feature isn't available in PS2 but its a great addition that any hardcore fan wanted.
  Moreover the Divving feature i don't use it much i can't do it on time but the computer uses it 
 with me and they usually get a yellow card for it they usually use it when they are trailing by 
 1 goal so its more realistic.
  
  Hope this review helped everyone i recommend this for all the football fans although it lacks allot 
 of the english league license but its still a cult favorite and i believe once a pro evo fan will 
 always be a pro evo fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertchaos
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  What to say about this game, its still playable at certain times, but it's not worth the extra 
 10 or 20. some people might give it a chance, but a majority of fans (including me) would think 
 they got short-changed.
  
  Starting with the alleged 'Team-vision' engine. When you play PES 2008 for the first couple of 
 times, you are under the influence that you can see the 'Team-Vision' engine kicking into the gameplay, 
 and it makes the realistic and so forth. but after the 10th-20th time you've played PES 08, you 
 completely forget and start thinking that there was no such thing as 'Team-vision', because the 
 gameplay is the same, the team AI hardly constructs new tactics or anything out of the ordinary, 
 therefore it becomes bland, and nothing spectacular happens for you to stack up your hard drive 
 with replay saves, until you score your first 35 yard free kick or shot.
  
  And there is NO such thing as 'Fair Play' in this game, you can get sandwiched by two players, 
 you are laid out on the floor, and play goes on, but if you press the A button (which is for conservative 
 tackle, not siding) , 9 times out of 10 the miserable referee stops play and offers a free kick 
 to the opposition, and you better pray your player isn't already on a yellow card, because that's 
 the perfect opportunity for the ref to send him off for a little nudge... it's total madness.
  
  And Edit Mode is ridiculous, since you can't get a save with all the proper kits and names 
 easily just like the good old PS2 days, we have to settle with having to buy another peripheral 
 for the console which is the Xbox Live Vision camera, which does very badly for the game, you put 
 your face on your created player, and he DOES not look like you at all, more like a mutant, unfinished 
 version of you, and if u want to put up the real pics for the kits, no matter how much you change 
 the brightness of the cam, it always turns out dark on the game, making it look completly pasted 
 on and soooooo cheap. and you can't customize the boots like you could in the previous PS2 versions, 
 they completly Screwed and Chopped it up.
  
  And Master League could have been soooo much better, all they mostly did was change the design 
 of Master League menu and added pretty pics of your fans and from your last match, what they should 
 have done was you should see vids of your fans giving you feedback from the last match, and the 
 feedback gets better or worse depending on the amount of matches you won or lost, and new signings 
 of players, just like what they do in real life when you watch Match Of The Day or Sky Sports News. 
 And in this game, there are press conferences and interviews, but you don't get absolute NO participation 
 in them, what they should have done is give you a set of questions to answer, and depending on 
 the answers you give, they will determine your players' future in your club in the fans eyes and 
 the club owners eyes, if not that then at least show a video showing the players feelings moving 
 to a new club, saying if it was a good move or he thinks it's hell already.
  If they did better with it, we could easily forgive all the flaws they did in this game.
  
 
  I've played the PS2 version, and it's more forgiving, more fluent as the frame rate dosen't freeze 
 up like the 360 version, and you can definatly see the Team-Vision engine kick in, and it stays 
 that way, plus its easier to get official names and kits via memory card.
  
  So therefore don't make the same mistake that we did and buy it, stay with the Legendary PS2 version 
 and you will definatly get your money's worth.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  Yeah I see how many people are dissapointed with this game because it hasnt exactly taken a huge 
 leap in tryin to change the series or add anything new. But to me that isnt a bad thing the Pro 
 Evo series has always been great and if it isnt broken why fix it? The gameplay has always been 
 spot on and it doesnt need fixing. 
  
  People say this game hasnt changed the series at all and to be honest yeah I think that is true 
 but it isnt a bad thing, what I think they have done this year is tweaked the game to make it nearly 
 perfect, in the past the games always had something annoying about them silly foul decisions, late 
 offside decisions bad presentation and not very good graphics.
  
  This year the graphics look great and realistic the best in any PES game bar none and the players 
 likeness in their appearence is also good, they have also slightly cut down the silly fouls but 
 the late offsides are still in slightly but that doesnt bother me. The menu presentation is no 
 longer cheesey I dont think and they have brought in some licensed tracks to make it sound better 
 also. 
  
  The gameplay is as good as ever and I think it might be slighly even better this year, people say 
 the game had sped up and it has an arcadey feel to it but I dont think this is true to me PES08 
 still plays he beautiful game as we know it. The AI is as good as ever and I dont think Fifas AI 
 doesnt get close to it.
  
  So basically yeah this game is a bit more of an upgrade than a new game but its a great upgrade 
 it is PES perected without any problems that the series had in the past. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamespenson
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  From '04 to '07 I bought Fifa every year. (on the Xbox) . I loved the licences, the number of teams 
 and the management mode. This year I got a 360 and decided that a change was in order so I bought 
 PES. I did this for 2 main reasons. 1. Alll my friends were buying PES and 2. The gameplay was 
 meant to be brilliant. It is.
  Each game is great fun to play. The shooting system (which was apparently rubbish last year) is 
 brilliant and the gameplay is fast. There are a couple of niggley problems but these aren't to 
 much of an issue. I will definitly buying PES again next year.
  I give this game a 9.0 because I'm still playing it now, a whole 3 months after I got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuakeOne
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer 6 on the 360 felt like a cop out. No doubt some people liked it but for anyone 
 that truly LOVES Pro Evo it was horrible. I've played Pro Evo since its PS1 days and through to 
 6 on the PS2 it seems to have gotten better with each installment. Pro Evolution 2008 is a good 
 game. But good is just not what you expect from seabass and the team at Konami. You expect amazing 
 graphics, crisp gameplay and fantastic multiplayer. This year we have next gen graphics, slightly 
 confused at times gameplay and an online multiplayer mode that is almost unforgivable.
  
  This game looks great, Likenesses are generally good, the stadiums and crowds look fine but sometimes 
 the game suffers from horrible slowdown. I don't know why this problem keeps creeping up in the 
 game its generally whilst using a sub or watching a replay but still this is Pro Evo on the 360 
 shouold we be seeing this???? Apart from that the game looks far better than last years effort.
 
  
  Gameplay wise this feels more like Pro Evo. Passing is sometimes unresponsive but shooting feels 
 nice and through balls work well. Defending feels much better with shoulder to shoulder tussling 
 and AI team mates running into clever defensive positions. Compared to the PS2 version the 360 
 version is faster, almost more arcadey which is fine but sometimes can translate to a game where 
 goals can be scored from a player running from one end of the pitch to the other and smashing the 
 goal into the net.
  
  So it looks nice, plays well, it has master league and lots of teams but lets face it all we want 
 to do is go online and play some punk who always plays as Barcelona to ensure a win. Well online 
 is VERY hit and miss but still absolutely addictive. Online the game suffers from mad lag. Some 
 games you will have little lag, the game will play slower and the ball will sometimes dissapear 
 from your feet, at other times the ball will shift from your own player straight to the other teams 
 goalie without you hitting a button. THIS IS PRO EVO????? I don't know how konami let the online 
 play down so bad, it feels nothing like the offline version but still you will keep coming back 
 to play it just to try and gain those online achievements.
  
  Don't get me wrong this is a good game. It still plays well, it still looks good and as an overall 
 package it is value for money but still this is the second next gen pro evolution soccer and it 
 feels like the series is doing the complete opposite of Evolving.... its going backwards and that's 
 a concern for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Louis51
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that although Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is a bit of a letdown, it's 
 still way better than FIFA 08 on any platform. So this is still the best football game you can 
 buy.
  
  But Konami really need to start implementing some true upgrades to their engine. The edit mode 
 is back, but it feels stripped, and the game plays more like and arcade game than a simulation. 
 There are generally up-to-date teams and rosters, but once again the Premier League is unlicensed.
 
  
  The presentation is pretty awful, as usual. The menus are the best yet in a Pro Evo but are still 
 way more about function that aesthetic. The graphics are a mixed bag -- the player models look 
 fantastic, but only the ones with official faces. The crowd are 3D, but look out of place when 
 compared with the rest of the visuals. The pitch can go from being incredibly crisp to ridiculously 
 blurry. The frame-rate is erratic in non-interactive gameplay sequences. The commentary is even 
 worse than PES 6's. The music is a joke. But the animation is absolutely impeccable.
  
  But the actual gameplay is where Pro Evo has always shined, and this is still and incredibly fun 
 game to play. Besides the arcade feel of the game, there are so few flaws you could pick out of 
 the gameplay. Every goal you score is different, and every game has a different outcome.
  
  PES 2008 on 360 is way better than last year's 360 effort, but not as good as PES 2008 on PS2. 
 It's a shame, but hopefully next year it'll get there.
  
  I still believe that Konami hit an unreachable high-point with PES 5. Sure, Pro Evo 6 was better 
 but it was just a refinement. PES 2008 (on PS2) is an even further refinement, while PES 2008 on 
 360 uses a different engine that isn't quite as satisfying as it's last gen offerings. But it's 
 the best next gen football game, and well worth a purchase if you liked previous entries, or like 
 football.
  
  As long as you value gameplay over presentation, you'll have a blast with PES 2008. Otherwise, 
 i suggest you go for FIFA (as much as i despise FIFA, i have to admit FIFA 08 is easily the only 
 playable one since FIFA 2003) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WookieMaster
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 26, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  I am a 41 year old gamer, who has been a dedicated player of the pro evo / winning eleven series 
 since its very first Japanese edition. I have played in tournaments in London and online. I am 
 an above average contender. I wanted to add those personal details, as I wish to say that my love 
 for this game has lasted longer than any relationship I have had so far in real life... I love this 
 game with a passion. The latest incarnation of Konamis masterpiece has left my numb. The graphics 
 look better on my Xb360, than the previous versions I have played (on PC) , the sound is undoubtedly 
 much much better, as is the commentary. My gripe is with the soul.... the essence, why we loved 
 the pro evo series. That certain magical quality is not there..... it is almost as the main developer 
 has not contributed to this outing at all, as though some new guy has taken the helm and hacked 
 the code into somethinfg sterile. I used to care about the team. I used to want to win. Now, I 
 play for a game in the hope the old familiar love will return, but alas it will not. 
  
  The play is so different. Each year, the game had the tweak that kept us coming back for more, 
 but this time there is no tweak, there is a hatchet swipped across the very being of this very 
 average title. 
  
  One of my problems is using the analogue stick on my XB360 to be fair... a good controller for FPS, 
 but for pro evo it is a no no... I have considered buying a PS3 for this reason, until I read that 
 the PS3 version is worse! Oh I long for the days where I could use a PS2 converter on my XB or 
 PC, but unless someone knows different, it is not possible on the 360.
  
  Now, I know my review is not a review as such, I could go on about how the players look realistic 
 up close, but not so when at distance. I could go on about the pitch textures being poor. I could 
 tell you about the commentary being much better, apart from Mark Lawrenson sounding like he is 
 reading from a poor script, but you can read all that elsewhere. What I wanted to say, to tell 
 anyone who knows about pro evo, is that the sprinkle of angel dust does not come with this game 
 as it has before. 
  
  Poor show Konami. Poor show. This game is dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackadder89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Pro Evolution Soccer, for years now, has been the best footballing game on the market. Each installment 
 has had its ups and downs, but has ultimately seen the main gameplay mechanics being touched up 
 and improved. PES 7 is no different, both in the slight improvements, but also in the lack of overhauling.
 
  
  The gameplay is now much more fluid than previous installments (and, in fact, more fluid than this 
 installment's PS2 counterpart) , with players moving and reaction to situations with realistic, 
 smooth motions. The ball feels like an individual entinty, moving with very convincing physics, 
 and the players interact with it in the most lifelike fashion seen to date.
  
  Graphically, the improvements are marginal, and only a few more licenses have been added, but any 
 fan of the series will know by now that these things are not what make the PES seres good games. 
 
  
  Whilst more things have improved rather than worsened in comparison with PES 6, it's not all good. 
 
  
  The commentary is seriously below par. The commentator will scream with passion "And a shot on 
 goal!!!", which is fair enough, but not when the strike is a blind punt from the half way line. 
 Incorrect cues, such as calling a "bad foul that deserves a booking" talking about a player who 
 has just dived, and anticipating a "climactic end to the game" towards the end of the first half 
 put a very minor dampener on the whole experience. It is also worth noting that referees can often 
 be a tad on the strict side, being a bit too trigger happy with the bookings.
  
  As I have said though, the good outweighs the bad. An addition of the ability to dive is, in part, 
 a welcome one, since the feature has been sorely missed from football games for a while now. It's 
 unfortunate that the function was perhaps not fully taken advantage of by the staff at Konami, 
 however just its presence, and the fact that it works sufficiently well will be enough to satisfy 
 those who have been looking for the feature football games since it disappeared around FIFA 98 
 time.
  
  All in all, Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is a competent, entertaining and as-good-as ever footballing 
 experience. The positive improvements outweigh the small negatives to make this year's installment 
 essential to all Pro Ev fans; however, perhaps it would not be entirely inappropriate to hope for 
 more innovation in the coming sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Sub-Zero --
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This version of pro 2008 for the xbox 360 is probably the best pro evolution soccer yet
  I mean the graphics are amazing compared to past pro evolution games the player are incredibly 
 lifelike and move and do tricks like the real deal but I think it fails to utilize all of the xbox 
 360's power for graphics and what still keeps happening a lot is whenever you're in replay mode 
 you start to notice that say whenever players are pushing each other that their arms and legs sometimes 
 go through each other which takes a lot of the realism out of it since the first pro still had 
 the same problem and konami have still failed to fix it after all this time. Overall the graphics 
 are very good (could be a little better) but it still is a big and impressive graphical leap from 
 pro 6 but it could have been bigger.
  
  Not only does it look real but it sounds real to, you really do feel immersed into the game from 
 the roar of the crowd or the sound of the football being kicked there are times when you can feel 
 like you really are there. But you still do get that thing that after playing it for about a week 
 you notice that the commentators are just saying the same things over and over again. The good 
 thing is that is really the only major problem with the sound. The sound is very well done in this 
 pro but it still sounded good in the others too so not really a big leap at all in sound but thats 
 not to say it doesn't sound fantastic at the same time.
  
  I'd have to say that there have been definite improvements in the A. I. department. In previous 
 pro evolution soccer installments the best part was playing against you're friends because after 
 a couple games against the computer you'd get tired of it but now that has all changed the computer 
 is just as fun to play against as you're friends and the best part is that if you start getting 
 to good for the computer just up the difficulty and problem solved. Remember all those little annoying 
 thing like whenever on your team the game passes to the wrong player or when the controls don't 
 respond quick enough and the ball goes out or how your crosses always seemed to be blocked by defenders 
 well now those problems are gone 90% of the time but it is a massive improvement from previous 
 pro evos.
  
  This definitely worth its price because you can get so much playing time out off this with things 
 like master league where you develop your own special team and buy all your favorite players, theres 
 all the cups you can win like the European cup the World cup and more and last but not least you 
 can play full seasons in the premiership (or as in the game the English league) or La Liga or the 
 the Italian and French leagues. 
  
  All in all Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is a huge improvement from it's predecessors and even though 
 the P. E. S. series isn't perfect it getting there and that why I am giving this game an overall 
 score of: 
  
  9.2
  
  ( it deserves far higher than a 7.0)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  The good: Pretty much the same as 06 but now u can dive on purpose yeah and the graphics are gettin 
 better
  
  The bad: Unfortunatley me bein a pes lover i have to say this game is slowly becoming like fifa 
 with a slower game so please konami speed it up.
  
  PES08 is probably the best football game this yr as i think it just edged out fifa but i have to 
 say this isn't the best PES game as the gameplay is slowly lacking the gameplay pace and still 
 the teams in sum leagues aint even got the real names of that team.
  
  
  However this game is gettin better in ways as the graphics get better as the pace gets slower basically 
 just like fifa but this aint fifa as this game has its own personality which attracts buyers as 
 every player has there real names and all the nations have the real names of both players an the 
 team, Plus this game brought the dive combination where u can dive on purpose which is what fifa 
 used to let u do but still on all footie games u cant hack the keeper which is a shame. 
  
  
  But in my own opinion pro evo and fifa have there own type of gameplay but i have always been 
 a big iss and pro eve fan since i used to play iss on the Nintendo 64 and the game is still a classic 
 that is why i give it a 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionelsd
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Konami have just tried to pull a fast one here, yes it looks slightly better than last season's 
 version, some players look realistic where as other big names will probably consider sueing Konami 
 for making them look "ugly".
  
  I am an avid PES fan as i switched over from FIFA a few years ago, i thought i would never see 
 the day when i might actually go back to FIFA, but how wrong i was.
  
  The menu system looks like something from the 90's games, absolutely no thought and creativity. 
 
  
  There is one plus though, the gameplay... as usual slick passing & movement. This is the only redeeming 
 feature of the game.
  
  I play PES online almost 99.9% of the time.... i absolutely HATE IT. I have reverted back to playing 
 PES 6, i think i will switch over to the dark side "FIFA". Oh how i hate doing this... but as a 
 XBOX 360 player i expect my LIVE games to be playable at least.... not so i'm afraid this year 
 round. Konami, you should be ashamed of yourselves.
  
  I hope Konami releases a patch for the xbox 360 or else..... does anybody want a copy of PES 2008? 
 How about if i pay you to take it off me, cause it sure would be a crime to ask somebody to pay 
 for it.
  
  Back to the drawing board Konami, get it sorted !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goduffgo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  My mate came home with PES 2008 for free because the security tag broke in the shop rendering it 
 useless to them. So i had no excuse to review the game on price.
  
  The 1st thing that dissapointed me was the lack of licensing in the game, i knew there was a few 
 but the shirt colours are not even the same. Eg Arsenal (red with white sleaves) in PES has dark 
 red with a white line down the middle.
  Also the stats are a little confusing but nothing that would take a couple of matches to learn.
 
  
  Whats great about PES is the gameplay, great atmosphere but the sound can be a bit messy at times 
 near the goal line and the commentry lacks in feel for me.
  
  The master league was interesting and i love the idea of creating a new team and having to find 
 who your best players are etc and that for me made me happy with PES, i still have alot to see 
 from PES but from what i've seen it need licensing fully and less complicated menu and it will 
 be spot on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjbcfc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that this is the best PES out of them all however that still doesn't justify the 
 cost because you might aswell buy PES 6 for really cheap than pay the price of a brand new game 
 for PES 2008. All thats changed is a few gameplay tweaks (defending seems a lot harder on this 
 one and long range shots are nearly always on target lol) . The Master League yet again saves PES 
 for offline and multiplayer is good, however online isn't worth it (just get some real life mates 
 round for a game, much much better) . Also annoyed that a simple USB camera doesn't work for taking 
 my picture (you need to buy a webcam or the official xbox webcam which will set you back like 50) .
 
  
  Basically its a great game however there is no justification for paying the price of a brand new 
 game for this tiny little update between PES 6 and this. So my advice is to go and buy PES 6 or 
 wait for a few months and buy this game pre-owned or something (especially since November is crammed 
 full of goodies like Mass Effect, Assassins Creed and COD 4) . Also christmas will take up precious 
 money so IMHO its not worth buying this game when you can get PES 6 for really cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benbuckley
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Just to give an idea of where i am coming from i have played every pro evo and fifa game over the 
 last 5 years or so. So i am gonna start by comparing the two footy games to give an idea of which 
 you should pick up. 
  
  This years Fifa looks amazing, the menus, teams, sound its really awesome. The game itself plays 
 great when u first put it on a play you will be blown away. Until... you begin to take the ball 
 in the last third and try to score. Thats where this game really falls apart and as football (soccer 
 in the usa) is all about gaols. After about 10 hours of play i was so fed up with the stupid way 
 you cannot control shooting at goal and the unrealistic way defenders appear and clear the ball 
 in the last third i got rid of the game and stopped playing it.
  
  Pro evo 2008 on the other hand doesnt have the amazing menus, teams and sound of fifa. But where 
 it shines is it plays like real football. I mean its really fun, its awesome to play. The gameplay 
 mechanics from pro evo 6 is completely different. Reviews that say it isnt different are not really 
 football fans and havent been playing pro evo a lot. The way the players carry the ball and can 
 carry the ball past defenders is great the gameplay is fast and fluid and great players can individually 
 take it past loads of players and crack it in the top corner.
  
  If you intend to be playing one of these two games for the next year getting pro evo 2008 is a 
 no-brainer. There is no way on earth fifa08 plays a better game of football its a complete joke 
 to give it an 8.5 over a 7. Im not saying gamespot is bad i always value the reviews here they 
 are awesome but obviously they picked up up scratched the surface and dont have a great love for 
 football as fifa 08 does look good until you play it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmweekes
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 9, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Well, everyone knows this series is good. It looks better now and instead of being a game where 
 you battle for 1-0 victories you instead compete in 4-3 goal fests on a regular basis. Whether 
 or not that is a good thing, is up to you. I would say the AI is much improved this year with teams 
 learning from what you do in an attempt to keep you at bay, and yes this makes things feel more 
 immersive and realistic. But on the other hand if you bang 3 goals passed a team then they REALISTICALLY 
 become completely demoralised and because it is so easy to score, in this situation you're likely 
 to end up sticking 7 or 8 past them by the end of the game.
  Basically, it is PES, it is easy, but it is good. Especially considering the opposition it faces 
 in FIFA which still plays a good game but has a completely broken, unnatural feeling shooting system.
 
  I should also mention that as of yet the online play is still laggy and broken. Thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuclearbiscuit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS:
  Outstanding player likenesses this year, players like Ronaldo, Henry, Giggs, Robbie Keane looking 
 sharp. Most of the players looking much better than Fifa's shiny clay models. Player movement is 
 smooth and looks realistic, even down the the kits you can see them move. The Editing system has 
 been returned so creating your self or another player is excellent with 70 hair styles to choose 
 from and much more. Still lacking Premiership Licenses with only Tottenham and Newcastle being 
 the only English teams licensed, but the editing feature can easily solve this. Other than that 
 top drawer 9/10
  
  SOUND:
  I have to say one downside is the lack of know songs in the game, but this is resolved by the new 
 commentary team with John Champion and Mark Lawrenson. They add a bit to the game with there more 
 realistic comments and reactions, still not brilliant but much improved. 8/10
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Fantastically smooth running and a sharp dribbling system which makes the game flow 
 really well like real football. Passing system is also superb, from short passes to long passes 
 the ball moves realistically. Shooting is much better compared to last years outing on the Xbox 
 360. Much more realistic and shooting from distance can be a joy now, seeing Kaka hit a screamer 
 from 30M or the Keeper pulling off a one handed stop at his post, looks brilliant. Although the 
 Goalkeepers do seem to spill the ball quite often they often recover quickly to clear the danger 
 and the saves look realistic this year. Online play has some terrible lag, but Konami say a patch 
 is on the way to get it sorted! So once again Pro Evo brings us Proper football making it truly 
 enjoyable game to play. 10/10
  
  LIFESPAN:
  Will easy last you till next years version and good season from Pre Evo Fans. 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 
 9/10
  Well deserving its 9/10 perhaps even a 9.5 . Pro Evo fans will be much impressed by this years 
 game, really improving form last years Pro Evo 6 and raising the bench mark for next years footie 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skuggan25
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  The game looks great and runs great with nice new moves (finally)
  and thank god!! the edit feature is back!! same thing with the saving of replays... But on the 
 negative side is lagging online and lagging during replays!! and this can become pretty enoying 
 after a while but if you are a true fan of PRO EVO series you should get this game aswell.. Its 
 way better then last years when it comes to graphics moves and animation, and also, it feels such 
 as if they updated the physics a bit aswell. We are not there yet but we are on the right track 
 once again,
  best regard /Rick 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisBoi17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  PES 2008 is a masterpiece and a true accomplishment by Konami. To start with the gameplay is absolutely 
 brilliant, you can pull of some neat tricks and make some wonderful passes and to top it off you 
 can score some magical goals, i'am extremely impressed with the gameplay. Although PES doesnt have 
 the licenses to aquire the English team names it's still brilliant plus you can edit the names 
 anyway. Secondly i'am very impressed with the create-a-player menu's you can choose from over 70 
 different hairstyles, a lot of facial features and over 70 different celebrations not to mention 
 how realistic your player will look. That brings me to the graphical features of the game, firstly 
 the players look so real it's like watching the football on the tele, secondly the stadiums look 
 state of the art although there is only 15 stadiums in the game, and last but not least the crowd 
 looks brilliant, they wear the same colours as the team and there is even an away end for the travelling 
 fans plus you can see their expressions when you score or concede a goal. I think PES 2008 is a 
 massive success in the gaming world and you dont want to miss out on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giverinmd
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 4, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  I waited a whole year for Konami to right the wrongs of Pro Evo 06 and instead i get this. Firstly 
 it feels like your kicking a medicine ball around the pitch and your players feel as if there running 
 around in quick sand with reactions so slow they seem disabled in one way or another. Defenders 
 are even more superhuman then previously- there capable of stopping any fluid attack dead in moments. 
 Instead it ends up a battle of attrition. Then we get onto the multiplayer aspect of the game. 
 If it had a multiplayer portion that actually worked well then alot of the negative aspects of 
 the game could of being overlooked (maybe) . However it is clear that this game has never being 
 tested AT ALL, even me and my friend who lives down the road, both of us with 16mb internet cannot 
 get a lag free game. I could forgive Team Fortress 2 for its lag as it was quickly fixed and its 
 potential to be a good game really good (potential it furfilled) , however Pro Evolution 2008 has 
 neither of these positives. Therefore im left with no footie (soccer to any Americans) game to 
 play at all. For anyone thinking Fifa 08 i'd rather die thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiruva
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  your review (gamespot) infuriates me as this game is high class i own both fifa and pes 08 and 
 u comment on the online on pes being poor but yet u dont mention in fifa there is tedious squad 
 update EVERY ONLINE MATCH. the gameplay is perfect and isnt that what u want in a football game? 
 The multiplayer aspect is great fun as usual and the master league has been significantly improved, 
 i dont understand how you can give this a lower score than the awful PES6, where u couldnt even 
 edit a players face!!!!
  
  I am disappointed in your review as i feel you have given it an unjust score. It is a better game 
 than fifa 08, no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smylexx
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  The full GS review is pretty spot-on so i won't cover off everything that's been said already. 
 While the presentation of the main select screen is pretty dull and the music will almost certainly 
 have you lurching for the audio-set up options to rid yourself of it, the main aspect of the game 
 -the very reason for buying the product still stands up!
  
  It's quite true that some of the replays are occasionally mired by lag and that, until patched, 
 the game runs online like an asthmatic tortoise with a broken ankle BUT the one player (and two 
 player without online play) game plays a great game of football.
  
  Animations are smooth, the passing sublime and the formation options and set-ups can be crafted 
 to the same degree as a Gran Turismo tune-up. Both newcomers and veterans will enjoy the game immediately 
 as the arcade action is less off-putting than in other footy games and the depth of manouvres available 
 to those wanting to put in the hours will certainly pay off.
  
  When it comes to Pro Evo (and most EA sporting games) , my standpoint is to only buy every other 
 update as the changes offered up are usually cosmetic. That rule definately applies here and anyone 
 who's played PES on the PS2 will feel right at home.
  
  Pick it up if you haven't got a PES game on the PS3 or XBox yet but , if you bought last year's, 
 you might wanna wait for the next instalment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomJ37
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Allround still a poor game, when you stick the disk in you wonder if they just havent sold you 
 PES6 with a new box... some of the advancements drop the game back to where it was with pes2... 
 its sad but bound to happen..
  Animations look like something out of gilligans run, the 8 dimensional runs just dont give you 
 any fluid movements, graphics look like ps1. Talk about next gen, konami need to pull their finger 
 out.
  
  When you can score by dribbeling through 11 men and tapping it in, surley isnt a football sim. 
 but a joke.
  
  Online still lags.
  
  All in all a penny arcade game. Get FIFA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazzyman123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  could of done better on graphics and trying to do more with the skill controls. other than that 
 it is a good game with the realisticness and the fun of just playing the game. again it cant compete 
 with fifa. if they had spent a little more time on it could of been amazing. and im just saying 
 nonsence now to make it 100 words so la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la 
 la la la la la a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 345669
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Konami Need to consider a rapid &amp; major overhaul in the development of this game. Its time 
 for the developers to regroup and add to their resources to try and build the game from scratch 
 for next year. This game lacks any new innovative features as well as features which rival games 
 offer. Having played the series for many years it is becoming increasingly frustrating to see a 
 game which has hardly evolved in its presentation, audio, licensing, graphics, stability, and online 
 multiplayer modes. The menu system is plain and lacking freshness, audio is uninspiring and flat 
 which doesn't really set an atmosphere for a football game. The online multiplayer was expected 
 to be pristine and stable however on day one of the games launch the game has major issues with 
 frame rate and lag which restrains the game from being played freely. It plays substandard to last 
 years edition of the game online due to this.
  
  There is only one area which this game excels in, and that is its gameplay. Over the years the 
 game has been tweaked and enhanced to accommodate individual player attributes to improve player 
 likeness and this year it is the same, with most players movement ans skills matching them in real 
 life. Also the commentary if better and more accurate.
  
  If you have last years game, I really don't think this game should be bought as there isn't enough 
 new offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donoir
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  The Pro Evo series has been a mainstay of the hardcore football game-fan for many-a-year now, mainly 
 because its simulation-like gameplay made up for what it lacked beneath its veneer. Last year's 
 Pro Evo was the first to go next-gen, but was incredibly shallow (for an example, see the average 
 footballer's wife) for a game so in-depth on the pitch and took something of a backwards step in 
 terms of what it had to offer off the pitch. A bit like Ryan Giggs when he signs a new contract. 
 Although this year's iteration goes some way to re-establishing the game's off-field content, it 
 still doesn't quite live up to its predecessors.
  
  Disappointingly, for English fans of the game, 18 of the Premier League's football teams only exist 
 on the game in the guise of badly thought of and really rather lamely named substitutes. Gone are 
 the days, however, of there being hardly any teams from your favourite league. They're all there; 
 Manchester United, Arsenal, Liverpool, Portsmouth, Aston Villa, Chelsea and the like, but only 
 Tottenham and Newcastle have their real names and official kits. The players are all there, too, 
 even the latest editions to the squads, which is something of a turnaround for the Pro Evo series, 
 as previous editions were out-of-date as soon as they were released. The inclusion of an edit mode 
 (which was notable only by it's absence in last year's next-gen version) goes some way in relieving 
 the pain of not having your team's real guise, it can do little more than replace names such as 
 Man Blue and Berkshire to Manchester City and Blackburn respectively. You can also give your team's 
 kit a bit of spit and polish to get it looking something like the real-thing. You can't replace 
 your team's emblem, though. You can, however, use the Live Vision camera to take a picture of a 
 real jersey and map it onto the game's, the final product can look decidedly low-res and will take 
 a few attempts to get right, if you have the patience. The England team's kit, as well as most 
 other international teams, is present, however.
  
  The pre-match menu system has always been a bit of a pain to navigate, it still is here but slightly 
 less so as it has been refined with one or two more top-menu options than before. Still, it could 
 do with being a bit more user-friendly as even after a fair few hours play it can be rather confusing. 
 You can get the computer to do most of it for you, with options such as auto-substitutions, so 
 as to avoid using most of what the menu offers, but where's the fun in that?
  
  So, you've picked a team and finally, now it's time to get on the pitch. Apart from the graphics, 
 the first thing you'll notice when you kick your first game off, is just how quickly into the game 
 you'll get. This is mainly because, despite feeling slightly more fluid, it doesn't feel that much 
 different to last year's game. This is somewhat surprising, as even hardcore Pro Evo veterans normally 
 have trouble getting used to each new game's nuances. It normally takes two or three games for 
 the training wheels to come off, but this time you'll be playing exactly how you played last time. 
 It's hard to decide whether the fact it takes no time at all to get into is a good or bad thing. 
 The much-lauded Team Vision aspect seems to have been somewhat sexed-up, as even though it's noticeable, 
 it's hardly the revolution you were led to believe.
  
  The graphics are a little hit and miss. The upgrade from last-gen is hard to notice from afar, 
 which, unfortunately, is how you'll be viewing the majority of the game, unless you use the 'zoom' 
 camera, which looks cool, but shows less of the pitch and means you can only see a little of your 
 selected player's immediate surroundings. Up close in replays, however, the differences are obvious. 
 The most famous players look incredibly like their real-life counterparts thanks to face-mapping 
 technology. Even less known players look something like how they do in real-life. Get a load of 
 players on the screen at the same time, though, and the frame-rate drops to a 'choppier than Vinnie 
 Jones' level. Although it'd be far more to the detriment of the player if this were to happen during 
 the actual game, it's still a bit frustrating when that  
 replay looks little better than a flick-book animation.
  
  The exclusion of the Master League mode in Pro Evo 6 was one of the biggest crimes in gaming, even 
 though it was as present in the PS2 version of the game as it has ever been. This year sees the 
 introduction of Master League to next generation consoles, and, seeing as this is where you'll 
 be spending the majority of your time on the game, its presence is quite heart-warming. Like the 
 return of an old friend who has had a nose-job and read a few books, it looks a fair bit better 
 and is slightly more in-depth than before. Although it doesn't reach the heady heights of games 
 like Football Manager in terms of what you can do and how addictive it is, it's still the best 
 part of the game. Building up young players to be world-conquerers and buying those that already 
 have achieved such feats is just as good as it has ever been. In fact, it's even better, seeing 
 as there are now 20 teams in each league, rather than 16 in the Pro Evos that have gone before.
 
  
  Despite all it has going for it (especially when compared to last year's 360 version) it's still 
 quite disappointing. Although it made financial sense to focus on the PS2 version last year, this 
 year there is no excuse as to why the Xbox 360 version just hasn't got as much going for it when 
 it's not kicking the ball around. The progress that has been made is encouraging, it's just that 
 it seems as though its fans would be hard-pushed to become the detested 'glory-seekers' and search 
 for pastures-new to find the perfect football game in the years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nirvanasource
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 2, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to harp on about the good side of PES 2008, because there aren't many. I'm going 
 to list all the bad things, and if you think you can put up with them all without getting frustrated, 
 then buy it.
  
  ------------------------- GENERAL ISSUES
  -------------------------
  Players often get red cards for tackles when they weren't that bad, and they weren't even the last 
 man.
  
  Players take too long to recover when stumbling through an opponent.
  ^ Also take too long to recover after making a successful sliding tackle, sometimes leading to 
 CPU getting the ball before you.
  
  Defence refuses to stay in a line. 1 player will run back 10m to play someone onside.
  
  Players 
 don't continue L1 one-two runs when they run into a player.
  
  Horrible ball collision detection leading to throw-ins for the COM when it hit off the COM.
  
 
  Ref's give soft free-kicks.
  
  Fixed Player - AI ignores throw-ins.
  
  COM can tackle the ball when they're behind you and not concede free-kicks at all. They even teleport 
 through your player to make contact with the ball.
  
  Players taking corners take too long to run back onside.
  
  Ball physics are pitiful compared 
 to PES6. The ball often bounces huge distances off of players.
  
  ------------------------- FREE KICKS
  -------------------------
  Ref takes AGES (ok, only a 
 3/4 seconds) to blow the whistle to take some free-kicks.
  
  Turning can be slowwwww.
  
  Passing midfield free-kicks is still useless as they usually goes to opponent as your players 
 rarely get in a position to play a pass to them.
  
  Passing power bar during free-kicks still does nothing.
  
  If COM is taking the free-kick they 
 RARELY miss.
  
  ------------------------- KEEPERS
  -------------------------
  Palm the ball too often on shots hit straight at them.
  
  Too easy to score at their near-post.
 
  
  Sometimes don't throw/kick the ball from hands in the direction you press.
  
  ------------------------- PASSING
  -------------------------
  You can use Long Pass + R2 to 
 routinely score from the half-way line:
  http://youtube. com/watch? v=5SqfV8iTtwc
  
  If you play a through ball it just keeps going and going... it barely slows down.
  
  Players 
 still run side-on to the ball when recieving through balls, which often means they'll watch the 
 ball roll out of play. Coupled with the ball momentum above this can be more frustrating than in 
 previous PES's.
  
  Long passes that spread play from side to side are far too fast when hit at a decent power. They're 
 so fast that even the most talented players find them hard to control well. See this video:
  http://youtube. com/watch? v=IINTj6kBh9w
  
  Your strikers are also horrific at staying onside 
 in general.
  
  ------------------------- SHOOTING
  -------------------------
  Strikers miss easy sitters. Especially when in the box diagonally facing goal.
  
  Similarly 
 to above, when aiming for far-post, shots go wide too often.
  
  Shots weak at times even when power bar is high.
  
  When receving ball quickly from rebound 
 or low cross, pressing shoot often won't do anything and your player might try to control it before 
 eventually shooting.
  
  ------------------------- ANIMATIONS / GRAPHICS
  -------------------------
  Shooting animations etc are technically good, but there's a lot of 
 clippng through the ground, ball, and other players. There's also a lot of ice skating going on 
 when switching animations. Far more so than in PES6
  http://youtube. com/watch? v=ibsu-dm3_jM
  
  Running animations are quite cartoony and funny sometimes, 
 as if they've motion captured the elephant man or something.
  
  Shirts etc have a huge gap between the skin of about 3+ inches.
  
  Animation system makes players 
 limbs move to IMPOSSIBLE angles to make their feet touch the ball. It usually happens with players 
 legs and goalkeepers hands.
  
  ------------------------- CONCLUSION
  -------------------------
  I haven't even covered the fact that there are less options/stadiums 
 than the previous game, and the fact that there is no Man Of The Match award etc etc etc. The list 
 is endless.
  
  All this is coming from someone who has thought that each PES has been an improvement on the last. 
 Unfortunately, PES 2008 is simply not a good game. No, I don't think FIFA 08 is better, as I don't 
 own FIFA and never will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasli1979
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  This is a game worth of a mark not less than 10. Reason? simple: Real fans can play again and again 
 with this game. In contrast, fifa 2008 is such an unrealistic game that even not worth of buying 
 for a real soccer fan who watches EPL or Serie-A every week.
  
  Why do the editor give this game an mark of seven . This is ridiculous.
  
  I just do not understand 
 why gamespot is so hard on all the Japanese games. I do not think this is because of culture difference 
 between Asian and America but only because gamespot always want to promote an american brand game 
 and this is so parochial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scoobiesnoop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Time was when Pro Evolution Soccer was the game of choice for the discerning football fanatic. 
 It was all about the game-play. PES 2008 is no exception to the rule  or is it? For sure there 
 is no disputing the flow of the game in PES is second to none and the new AI system makes for an 
 impressive update to the series. However there are gripes. The referees are so strict that in some 
 games you only have to look at an opposite number and you are red carded, which as you can imagine, 
 is not conducive to a good game of footy. In comparison to FIFA 08, game-play is much faster and 
 generally better all round, even down to more responsive cursor movement but thats where the congratulatory 
 pat on the back ends. I dont know about you but these days when I buy a game, I expect a certain 
 level of choice and game modes; where FIFA 08 offers be a pro  essentially a game within the 
 game, along with manager career , a million online options and so many stats its hard to keep 
 up, as well as FIFA news etc plus a ticker with real world scores. PES has erm well Master 
 league or league, or. online multiplayer (but so has FIFA) OK so you can scan your face in which 
 is kinda cool but so what? Sadly Konami have been so caught up in making the game-play ultra realistic, 
 that they forgot to put anything else in the game. If it came to the crunch and you really wanted 
 to know which was the better game, Id give it to you like this: If game-play is all you are interested 
 in, then, PES 2008. If a slicker looking not bad game-play but more to do see interact with game 
 is what you want, FIFA 08 is your game. Personally although I love the way PES plays, I feel cheated 
 as it seems like a 2 year old game with suped up graphics and a better game engine. Its almost 
 naked but for a huge fig leaf with PLAY written all over it.
  
  Im still torn, you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nibble_couz
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Well this would be the 7th installment in the pro evolution soccer series and what a disappointment, 
 the graphics are not any better then last years a few improved character models are about all they 
 have done Konami look like they dident even attempted to do anything to them by the looks of it, 
 the lack of licensed clubs and players is just so frustrating Konami have been doing this game 
 for a good 7 years and not once have they been able to get all premiership fully licensed clubs 
 to me that sounds like there not trying. I highly recommended fifa 08 over pro evo as fifa seem 
 to have taken it to a new level were as pro evo has not. Overall pro evo is a let down this year 
 even thought I must say I adore the technical side to it by this I mean the game play is flawless, 
 but without any new add ons or graphics it just doesn't cut it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrevSkyline
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Firstly, yes I really enjoy this game.
  
  Secondly - in my honest opinion - it IS better than Fifa 08.
  
  Some people say that PES2008 
 plays fast, yes it does, if you compare it to the awfuly SLOW PES6 that is. Dribbling is slightly 
 easier this year, which is a huge improvement, as on last years effort the defenders seemed to 
 lock on and make a last ditch miracle tackle on your attacker. Shooting has improved also, no longer 
 will you see those 5 yard tap ins balloon way over the bar with just the slightest touch of the 
 shoot button. Crossing, always a 50/50 effort on PRO EVO has been GREATLY improved, never has it 
 been better to whip in a first time cross or place an accurate ball in to your attackers. Player 
 likenesses are fantastic, although not every player is perfect, you can make adjustments with the 
 welcome return of the full editing facility. With the welcome return of editing comes the added 
 feature of being able to scan your face into the game, great news for those that want to update 
 the non-liscened teams or include themselves into a team or start their own.
  
  Have I mentioned that you can save your replays yet? Yes folks, this has also made a welcome return 
 to PRO EVO, so you can show off your many wonder goals..... if you can beat the improved keepers 
 that is. The keepers have had a drastic change, no longer do they catch shots at full power, they 
 realisticly parry the ball, close the strikers down quicker and are better at crosses, no longer 
 are they like a vampire (afraid of crosses) .....
  
  The formation setup has also changed, you can chose to send the defenders up for corners and even 
 send the keeper up in the dying minutes if need be.
  
  Gamer Achivements have also been made harder, no longer can you stick it on easy and win all the 
 Cups, you need to be at your best to unlock all those precious Gamer Points......
  
  The only negative is the online play. Konami assure fans that this will be fixed in the near future 
 but for now we have to endure SERIOUS lag issues and people that quit when getting a tanking.
 
  
  In all, this is a great return to form for Konami, it plays more like PES4 which is regarded as 
 THE BEST PES by many PES fans, add in next gen graphics, online play and your in for a winner with 
 PES2008.
  
  9.0 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil202mcr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  The last Pro Evo was a bit of a disappointment for most of the die hard Pro Evolution Soccer fans. 
 It had none of the modes that have been added back into this one and last generation graphics. 
 But Konami have given us a great game (in my opinion) and the tweaked gameplay and AI tells us 
 that Konami are trying to make the Pro Evo series even better by each game. This is proven and 
 this is a better and more technical game than FIFA 08 and Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 is the best 
 football game out there and you should buy it now or for Christmas or at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiLLA1337
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  But i will and i'll keep it short and sweet (or maybe not so sweet for the PES fanboys) . PES 2008 
 just does not cut the mustard, Kanomi were on thin ice last year with regards to the online aspect, 
 the new features and upgrades (or lack of them) , the graphics... and even the tried and tested gameplay 
 of the PS2 days. This year they have well and truly blown it in my opinion. I mean c'mon, what 
 have Kanomi been doing for the last 12 months??? the graphics are terrible for a Next Gen title. 
 The online play is even less functional than last year's effort, i keep asking myself how is that 
 possible??? Now you can actually dive in the hope of cheating, YES CHEATING a free kick or penalty???!!!!. 
 I could go on but i won't... the one semi good thing i can say about PES 2008, is the gameplay has 
 moved back in the right direction. But it just does not warrant &pound;40 of my hard earned cash!... read 
 the GS UK review. Good job GS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Its just the same old Pro Evo when it comes down to it. I dont rate it as good as 6 but we are 
 talking like a whisker in difference. Online is a bit slower to get a game this time round but 
 all the other game modes are there with a better edit mode this time.
  
  Im finding it a little easier to score on this game . .as ive belted in 3 free kicks already, i 
 only ever got one in the last and that was a fluke, glitchy affair. This said it plays a little 
 easier, players are a little more intelligent with making runs for you.
  
  I normally do a really detailed review but it really is just Pro Evo with a few features added 
 as u expect with a little tampering with the mechanics. If you love football, soccer or whatever 
 you want to call it, its a deffo buy. Finally Blackburn or Lancashire play quite well and not a 
 total let down. Come on the Rovers
  
  The PS3 version i would avoid. For a console that touts better graphics . . .just have a look at 
 the crowd compared to the 360. The play is a bit glitchy as well, its hard to explain but if you 
 are a Pro Evo fan and have played both versions you will know what i mean when i say odd breaks 
 occur and free kicks are given with no possible explanation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fulham89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  There are many gamers out there, many in the other reviews, that criticise Pro Evo 2008's refusal 
 to change drastically, instead preferring a constantly unsettled FIFA. Whilst EA desperately throw 
 new features in each new iteration, they discard the previous feature from the previous year: no 
 time to develop or refine. Instead, Pro has been tweaked and tinkered with; developments are subtle 
 but significant, and the little touches, rather than the tacked-on skill features (I'm looking 
 at you, FIFA) are what really make the difference.
  
  First and foremost: gameplay. Unsurprisingly, Pro plays like an ardent fan's wet dream. Yes, it 
 has a more arcade-like feel to it, as dribbling and flowing passes take prominence over long, frustrating 
 and set ways to score goals. Who wants to play out the boring parts of a match, the minutes they 
 don't show on Match of the Day? Not me, that's for sure. Pro Evo is fast, energetic and still the 
 most accurate representation of football out there. Of course, in terms of a different sort of 
 accuracy, it falls short: not having licences for the Bundesliga or the majority of the Premier 
 League is once again disappointing to all, and effectively holds back Pro Evo's appeal. Still, 
 with the decent edit mode, you can personally go some way to rectifying it.
  
  In terms of graphical capabilities, it is, admittedly, a little underwhelming. I would say that 
 90% of international players are very accurate likenesses, and every lower club will have 2 or 
 3 of their best players faithfully recreated - it shocked me to see such a fantastic head for Fulham's 
 Brian McBride. However, as can only be expected, the other players are rather generic. The player's 
 facial expressions are truly magnificent, making watching celebration clips from goals a joy rather 
 than a chore. Other than that, the game looks good. Not next-gen good, but good all the same.
 
  
  Online play is the only lacklustre feature in Pro Evo, at least at the moment. It's very laggy; 
 although it's not totally unplayable, it does hurt the gameplay's natural flow. A patch will, hopefully, 
 sort this out in the near future. Other than that, little additions like preset comments for your 
 opponent are nice touches, and I am certain that after the necessary patch, this will be a game 
 you'll play thousands of times online.
  
  For me, personally, it's all about the unpredictability of Pro Evo 2008. I scored a backheel volley 
 with Owen, against Germany, from the edge of the box, into the top corner (with a nick off the 
 bar) . I also scored from a corner kick in the same game. It's the human errors built into the AI 
 that make it so brilliant. Goalkeepers dropping balls, defenders scoring comical own goals and 
 offsides being called incorrectly happen in football, so why should they be excluded from the game? 
 The same applies for the hotly-debated dive button. In reality, it's too difficult to time and 
 push all of the required buttons - and the instant yellow for failure to win a free kick restricts 
 constant diving. Another genial feature that makes Pro Evo stand out.
  
  Overall, this game is all about the game. It plays a dream, the framerate is smooth in the match 
 itself (those complaining about terrible framerates for replays are exaggerating greatly) , though 
 the same can't be said for the introduction of the players. The commentary from Champion is superb 
 - Lawrenson, however, sounds tired, greedy and altogether fake. However, every time I put Pro Evo 
 into my disc drive I know I will discover another brilliant nuance in-game, or score an unbelievable 
 goal, the kind that FIFA will not permit in its ironically all-too-harsh reality. It is this constant 
 unpredictability and discovery that will keep you coming back to this game until the next iteration. 
 I count the score at 6 - 0 to Konami. Game over, FIFA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockfletch3000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Superb game.... Simple as that, but not perfect . Not yet....
  
  The reason I say this, and please don't shout at me, is due to the whole licensing thing, (again!!) . 
 Which to be honest, I know is just being.... well, greedy really....... isn't it? What I'm getting 
 at is that the PES series have ALWAYS been excellent games, we all know this, and much better than 
 anything else by a long shot... But, wouldn't it be awesome if ALL the teams and stadiums, (etc) 
 were sponsored like Fifa??.... Ah well, one day I guess.... It still Rocks anyway!!!!!!!!!
  
  The new editions to PES 2008 from last years dissapointing 360 version are all very welcome 
 additions. The whole presentation of it is really slick and the sound is great, plus the graphics 
 look loads better than the last version. Players look superb, animations tweaked and further modeled 
 on their real life counterparts, signature moves and habits and all. Konami have really gone that 
 bit further to make you feel like it's a proper plush HD 360 footy game, noticeably better than 
 07. The editing features are back too!, but, there's no original logo designing without a 360 camera..... 
 So you're lumped with no option to create the proper badges. Shame. But wait, you CAN change the 
 player names and team names, and also change the kits. (Thank F#%K for that!) This was left out 
 last year which left you feeling like it was an incomplete game... This one, however, is a whole 
 lot better and feels like it was actually tested before they released it! Hurray!
  
  Game-play wise?..... Simply fantastic! You've only got to have one go and you'll see exactly what 
 I mean...... I was impressed to find just a few neccessary changes have been made, mainly to the 
 pace and overall shooting features during the match. You now won't find yourself performing 'rugby 
 conversions' if you put too much power on the shot, and the ref is a bit more 'lenient' with his 
 decisions too! Again, loads and loads better...
  
  Overall, you can't really complain about this version at all, it's tonnes better than 2007's release. 
 In fact it must be the best one yet, but you DO still 'wonder' why they don't just get those annoying 
 licensing issues sorted to polish it off once and for all.... Know what I mean? Still, it's a much 
 better, smarter looking and smarter thinking game, and one you will love and be able to get straight 
 into if you like football games..... So go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _ad_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Working my way through master league and im loving the newest instalment. The only thing fifa has 
 over pes is first touch. With first touch pes would be perfect. The animations are awesome, just 
 scored with a chip over the keeper from the side of my boot. Another bad point, for me is the commentators. 
 They are aweful in my opinion. I played one game with them on and ive since turned them off. Id 
 rather listen to my own music than listen to the garbage spewing from mark lawrenson. However the 
 music in PES 2008 is quite good. Still has that arcade sound. Brilliant. A must buy for any football 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Konami's first attempt at next-gen football, Pro Evolution Soccer 6, was an example of what not 
 to do. The game was essentially the PS2 version upscaled (badly) for the 360. This year though 
 Pro Evo has been developed from the ground-up for next-gen.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Visually Pro Evo 2008 shows great promise but it doesn't yet look truely next-gen. The player likenesses 
 are fantastic and put EA's FIFA series to shame. All the star players look stunningly life-like. 
 Kits also look beautiful with amazing effects including very natural looking creasing as players 
 move.
  
  On the other hand, less well-known players suffer from generic facial appearances and the crowds 
 appear blocky, although it is great to see full 3D models for each person in the stands. Some of 
 the grass textures look odd sometimes too, often blurring. The only framerate problems in the Xbox 
 360 version occur during replays. The drop in frames is noticable in this area but it never occurs 
 during gameplay.
  
  Core gameplay:
  
  The core of the Pro Evo experience has always been the fluidity of the gameplay and you'll certainly 
 find that in this version. If you're used to the series you'll quickly be stringing great passes 
 together and scoring some memorable goals. It is easier to score this year, however its also harder 
 to keep clean sheets yourself, thanks to improvements in the AI (known as TeamVision) which allows 
 the other team to adapt to your style of play.
  
  Goalkeepers are more realistic this year, sometimes making spectacular saves and at other times 
 fumbling shots. Occasionally they do drop easy catches giving you simple tap-ins but it isn't as 
 frequent as it has been in recent FIFA titles.
  
  Seabass and his team have added a lot of new animations to Pro Evo 2008 which make dribbling in 
 particular much more realistic. Players like Christiano Ronaldo can maniplulate the ball at pace 
 with the greatest of ease.
  
  Game modes:
  
  Pro Evo 2008 contains the usual game modes, such as; Master League, League, Cup and Exhibition. 
 The game suffers slightly in this area because so little has changed from previous versions. The 
 Master League in particular isn't very interesting this year purely because it hasn't changed in 
 several years now. There are also no new game modes this year which is frustrating but ultimately 
 you won't mind too much given that the game plays much better than the 360 version of Pro Evo 6. 
 Then there's the online.
  
  Xbox Live:
  
  My feelings towards the online play in Pro Evo 2008 are extremely mixed. The game plays the same 
 as it does offline, but at times it lags horribly regardless of connection speeds and this can 
 really ruin the experience. On the other hand it has a magnificent stat tracking system and Konami 
 are already working on a patch to correct some, if not all, of the latency issues.
  
  Edit mode:
  
  A big part of the Pro Evo experience is the edit mode. Because of EA's licensing 
 deals with FIFA, it is difficult for Konami to obtain licenses for Pro Evo, especially concerning 
 English Premier League teams. At this point Konami actually have most of the European teams licensed 
 but not the English teams. The edit mode has always been the way to get around this.
  
  This year's edit mode on next-gen is a big improvement, seeing as there wasn't one on 360 last 
 year. However, it is still very limited. There are only 12 kit templates and you cannot edit club 
 badges or add sponsor logos, both things you can still do in the PS2 version. You can import images 
 to add to kits, but only if they have been taken with the Xbox Live Vision Camera, which obviously 
 isn't of great quality. You can still make perfect kits, but the process has been made 10 times 
 more time-consuming.
  
  Other versions:
  
  The PlayStation 3 version of this game should be avoided at all costs. It is practically unplayable 
 and was the first game I have ever returned to a store because it was so poor.
  
  The framerate on the PS3 is unbelievably poor, sometimes running at only 10FPS. The graphics also 
 occassionally blur to the point where you can't see what you're doing and the lag online is even 
 worse than on the 360. Just don't buy it. Don't even look at the box!
  
  Overall:
  
  Pro Evolution Soccer 2008 on the Xbox 360 is infinitely better than this year's FIFA game, so that 
 alone means that this should be your football game of choice for 2007/08. That said, visually it 
 isn't looking next-gen just yet and the gameplay is certainly an evolution rather than an evolution. 
 But if you're looking for a fantastically playable football game that will entertain you right 
 through until the next version comes out, then Pro Evo 2008 is definitely the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobhoffnee1985
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  Pro Evo 2008 is a good footy game. The graphics aren't much and there's not that much new compared 
 to numero 6, but the main thing is, they haven't changed the core gameplay much either! It stil 
 plays the most fluid game of Soccer you'll ever play and just feels natural. Some gripes still 
 remain, like the fact the Ref likes blowing his whistle quite often- which throws a wrench into 
 proceedings. You can be going 5mins of back and forth action and then- Oh. It's a foul. Which is 
 true in soccer I suppose to a certain degree but no proper official blows that often (quite literally) . 
 Anyway, when you have a game this close to perfect, the bad points stick out but not enough to 
 stop you enjoying the game. This game also sports Face mapping, so if you want to put your face 
 on a soccer player you can do so. True it'll look like he's gone 10 rounds with Ricky Hatton, but 
 it kinda resembles the original product-I can see this becoming a bigger part in games to come. 
 I recommend Pro Evo 2008- I don't think this will turn fans of FIFA though but it's a very good 
 soccer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barcaacrab
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:25 pm PT
Review:  this is an overall superior game to fifa 08, im 42 years old now and ive been playing footy games 
 all my life, or whatever bad life it has been as ive been playing them and im 42, the animations 
 on the new pro is excellent with the nice little side foot slot into the corner (tasty) .
  master league still the same but its still the same goodness, i cant find anything to critise with 
 the game except the frame rates on XBOX LIVE which i hear their sorting out BTW.
  Fifa 08 (murmer of voices)
  Pro evolution soccer 2008 (applaud)
  Any of these no good fifa 
 08 fans are just a bunch of 10 year olds who care nothing of the actual game except for the music 
 and liscensing and are obsessed with street cars... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  One of my most anticipated game of the year was PES 08. I finally got the game on the release date 
 and already it felt different, as if it wasnt PES anymore. My first match was great 3-2 final second 
 after being 2 goals down. The difference one man being sent off is crazy, which is good. Then came 
 the doggy graphics and glitches which were not in PES 6. The gameplay felt the same but Teamvision 
 only made some difference. Most of the time the defenders run out of their positions to go for 
 the ball leaving most player open for a run and a shot at goal. Leaving that to one side i found 
 that the off side rule has been relaxed... thank god! Corners have improved drastically, free kicks 
 remain the same but only a tiny bit more realistic and the over all feal to the game and very small 
 but effective features make the game better then what it would of been, which is horrible. Soon 
 enough i found my self getting the urge to play fifa 08 as the gameplay and graphics have out classed 
 PES this time round. Although PES is shot system remains dominant and over all fun of the game. 
 I play PES now because its more fun to play then Fifa and also more social able. Fifas menu screen 
 is over all better then pro evos but PES is sound track isnt as annoying as fifas, my opinion. 
 Now the master league, one of the things which has kept me playing pro evo this time round. 20 
 teams, more on the manager side and just pure fun competition. Fifas is more realistic and detailed 
 but id rather have a league which is quick and fun instead of stressful, i still play fifa though... its 
 just a good game. Back to pro evo. Team reputation is minor but also huge within the game, such 
 a small but effective step for pro evo and also the customization of the teams this time round 
 is more personal and enjoyable. The point system is used for more then buying players eg rep and 
 extra features such as adding yourself to the master league. The new players are decent and the 
 old ones are too, making it easier to score goals this time instead of rushing through eager to 
 get to the negotiations... although i still look forward to that period. Thats about it really other 
 then you can finally save goals and more shocking but useful, highlights to remind you of those 
 good matches youve once played. Round of applause to the master league and round of applause to 
 football or soccer games this year, two different games, both good to play in different ways one 
 goal which has been achieved... to make the games better and more realistic. Cant wait for next 
 year... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candidate0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the pro evolution soccer series you will not be let down by another strong 
 game.
  Much better than the last release and still better to play then fifa 2008.
  This is the game for a true football fan.
  The only faults are the same as always with the silly 
 team and player names but these can now be replaced, if you have the time, with the excellent editing 
 function which now allows you to use your live cam.
  The commentary is also far better now.
  
  Buy it now, dont mess around with the Fifa option 
 as you will still end up on pro evo but will start pressing wrong buttons to shoot which could 
 mess up your live stats!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lalau70
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  I PES 06 played it to death for the last year and ever since the demo been out have reserved my 
 opinion until i had the game its self. So what do i think?? Its just not good enough.. fifa was 
 loads better than last season, version, and you may say it had further to go but this is just the 
 same in game play as last year. Not a patch on fifa graphics, even with the improvements. 2 new 
 skill move from what i can see, but nothing new a good solid game of football. where it fall down 
 this time is online, awful connection problem glitchy animation and invisible men are some of the 
 problem i have already come up against. Never the less text thing is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenal4eva17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  pr evolution soccer 2008 is definetly the best football game yet the graphics are good th players 
 might seem elastic at the begining but when u get used to it its simply brilliant. another good 
 thing about pro is u can score all types of goals unlike fifa where its allway the same type of 
 goals how boring!!!!!!!!!. master league is the best master league yet, edit mode is brillian, t 
 pro have brang bk fix which is fantastic, the only bad points abour pro are it could of had 1 or 
 2 more leagues more kits in edit mode. if u havant bought pro yet and u like football game u have 
 to buy it i cant start to imagine how good the next will be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FalconerX
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Okay i was a massive Pro Evo fan up until i played this game. I bought it every year and loved 
 it. I dispised fifa and its unrealisticness that was nothing like football.
  
  But now the roles have reversed. PES08 is horrible, its criminal, it has almost no features AT 
 ALL, it has awful replay system, the stadiums look really bad, the game suffers horrendus frame 
 rate problems that make it sooo frustrating. The online mode is the most laggiest thing ever!
 
  
  Konami have played us for fools....
  
  This year Fifa08 beats PES08 in every single department, the one thing that kept PES ahead of fifa's 
 features was the gameplay, the gameplay is now more reminiscent of flys buzzing round a horses 
 arse then real football. And anyone who loves football knows thats not anything like it....
  So PES has now become the arcade game while Fifa08 has become the football simulator.
  
  You 
 now have become number 2 in the football game stakes Konami dont take us for sheep who will just 
 buy anything you release. This game is terrible so next year you better get it right or your just 
 be like what the old fifa's were like which was a crap game released every year... The ps3 version 
 got it even worse, what a bad game.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnasher1001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The problem with pro evo 6, was that as well as having many items missing for the 360 that were 
 in previous-gen versions, it was nowhere near as flowing or realistic as previous Pro Evos.
  
  Now we have 2008.... And what a joy it is!
  
  Gameplay : Start with this, as it is always 
 the beauty of pro evo. Controls respond as soon as you wish them to. The AI is a challenge, shimmying 
 around you, passing the ball the other wing to get around your tight defence and sending players 
 en mass after your #1 striker. Genius play just pours out of even the most uncoordinated of us.... until 
 the opposition learns your plays. I don't know how this 'Teamvision' works that Konami have implemented, 
 but if you try the same method of attack each time, you will fail, but equally, you will find gaps 
 that weren't there before!!
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics : If you're looking for another Gears of War, forget it. It does, however, portray many 
 players realistically, allowing you to recognise who it was who just netted a screamer from 30yds 
 away with ease, although there is the odd famous player who looks like a troll after bad plastic 
 surgery, but don't forget Wayne Rooney looks like Shrek anyway.....
  
  8/10
  
  Sound : Well you'd be expecting the usual awful score here, as previous Pro Evo games have had 
 the most awful commentary in any sports game, and the BGM has been catchy, but equally bad. Well, 
 I am glad to say, that the commentary on this is possibly the most realistic I have ever heard. 
 It is now much more conversational than previous statement style commentary, and it works. It works 
 well. Very well. And if you don't like the menu music - change it! The handy playlist editor in 
 the options is most welcome to those that cannot stand the cheesy pop/dance that often appeared 
 in other Pro Evos. The cheesy music is still in there though....
  
  9/10
  
  Overall : Pro Evo has pretty much hit the target in every game in terms of gameplay, that's why 
 awful commentary, crappy music and average presentation has been overlooked, but with this incarnation, 
 they have hit the spot with every last aspect of the game. Flowing gameplay, great commentary, 
 presentation and graphics come together to make easily the best football game to date
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_french_cool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  this year i bought both fifa and pes 4 the 360, and u no what?
  
  pes and fifa have played a good game, but pes comes out on top.
  
  everything has improved, 
 from shooting, to the dodgy keepers of pes 6, everything feels right, every match plays differentley 
 2 the last, all at breakneck speeds, matches really flow, and players always seem 2 be looking 
 for spaceand openings.
  
  already after 24 hours of playing, im having more fun than i did in 24 days of playing fifa.
 
  
  i would have given this a perfect 10/10 if it wernt for the fact that online matches are very laggy 
 at this stage, however pes 6 had the same problem at first, but a patch was released soon after, 
 maybe it is my connection, its only 2.2mb, but i have never had a problem in 16 player death matches 
 on halo 3. my live gamertag is SPAWN OF SENNA if you think u can help me with this prob, or even 
 if you want to challenge me to a very laggy match 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tombradybaby
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  I foolishly bought fifa this year and gave it a 4.5 on gamespot. That game is poor and i wish i 
 could stop all the kiddies wasting there birthday and christmas money on it. BUY PRO EVO!!!
  This years pro evo is a lot better than last years. The graphics are stunning, in game sounds are 
 awesome, commentary is good and accurate, but gets repetitive reasonably quickly.
  This game is very easy to pick up - for the kiddies amateur level is a nice easy setting and will 
 give you no problems to score. For the pro evo pro's its just as challenging as ever, but i would 
 say less frustrating, as there are no where near as many free kicks in this addition as the last 
 one. Im yet to get a yellow card and ive been playing it all afternoon.
  The passing, forward runs, ball physics, shooting, realsim, action replays, editing and gameplay 
 in this edition, is in my opinion the best ever for pro evo and the best ever footie sim. Better 
 than Pro Evo 5 anyday. I literally cannot fault this game. If i had too and this is really scraping 
 the barrell, on action replays - players mouths and teeth look like goats or a horses mouth. Especially 
 Van Persie and Ruud Van N. You will see what i mean.
  If you dont own this game, you dont love football and if you dont love football, why are you reading 
 this?!?! You sicken me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ari90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  pes lovers will love it, pes haters will hate it
  it's enough to keep the fans happy but won't appeal 2 too many new ppl
  wooooooooo oooooo  
 oooooooooo ooooooo ooooooo o ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ooooooo oooooo oooo oo oo oooo o ooooo 
 oooooooooooooo oooooooooo oooooooooooooooooooooooooooo oooooo oooooo ooo ooooooooo ooooooo oooooooooooooooo 
 oooooooooooooooooo ooooooooo oooooooooooo 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 
 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 00 0 0 0 00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastheace
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  PES is way better than fifa but fifa was the football games for me but now pes is the best in the 
 footballing franchise ever since it was originally known as ISS (International Superstar Soccer) 
 and Adidas Power Soccer. This year round I started of with FIFA as its usually released ahead 
 of PES by a few weeks and this year FIFA had a vast improvement on last years entry, I hoped PES 
 would follow suit and it has; last years entry in the PES series was a bit of a rush job it felt 
 no different gameplay wise than PES6 did on the PS2.
  
  This time round PES 7 (or 2008) is greatly improved on gameplay, sound, graphics and general navigation, 
 there is a lot more to offer the hardcore footy fan this time, with extensive edit mode where 
 the user can upload pictures of team badges, logos, and your own face via the Xbox Live Vision 
 Cam, I havent tried this feature yet but it does look promising for those of you who prefer to 
 have proper kits etc. Personally I love the game for its gameplay and it doesnt lack in that 
 the year, its fast, fluent and precise and requires a lot more think both with formations and 
 tactics if youre playing the game on a harder difficulty; but it soon becomes familiar and easier 
 to work.
  Graphics wise it has that distinct Konami look about it, fans of the developer will know what 
 I mean (if you follow the series or MGS series) everything looks crisp &amp; sharp as it should 
 be, previous entries have never really scrimped on looks just the licenses that are missing (but 
 again that shouldnt bother some) Finally PES has some new commentators in form of Jon Champion 
 who does ITV 4s Champions League and Mark Lawerenson the pundit from the BBC. Commentary is so-so 
 in my opinion, but an improvement from Trevor Brooking &amp; Peter Brackley, as these two were 
 getting old although some fans may miss them? Crowds sound realistic and good; menu music on the 
 other hand will never changeunfortunately.
  
  Overall PES 2008 looks great, feels great and plays even better than its predecessor and its 
 rival (FIFA 08) to any football fan who has yet to pick up a footie title this year make sure PES 
 is it. Rate this Review: Yes No Track Author Report Abuse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panakas
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Master League Saves The Day...
  What else can I say?
  I played fifa2008 for the last 1 1/2 months and the only thing I can say is....
  Once you play 
 fifa you never come back!
  I'm a pes fun... I always loved pes series... But...
  Last years pes2007 looked terrible on a next generation console!
  I thought that they couldn't 
 make it worst! But I was wrong!
  This years pes2008 is even worst in some parts!
  Ok I must say that the graphics of the game are GREAT! The player faces are almost real! Much better 
 than Fifa's faces!
  Another great thing is the ref. You can see him move-react ingame!
  He even gives yellow cards for diving! But... don't try to tackle a player and don't win the ball... You 
 will get 100% yellow or RED...
  The best thing in pes2008 is Master League... That's what keeps pes going...
  I don't think is 
 necessary to tell you about Master League... YOu already know it is Fantastic...
  But... I will tell you the bad things of pes2008!
  The replays are TERRIBLE... The frame rate of 
 the replay is BAD!
  It looks very fake!
  The players move like robots... It reminds me of Virtual Striker...
  I must say I liked virtual 
 striker! But... This is a next gen game... Sorry but this is not good...
  The gameplay doesn't feel like the real thing! It is an arcade game...
  It is like playing arcade 
 soccer game...
  And... The most important thing is LICENSE!
  Most of the teams are not licensed...
  And... There aren't enough LEAGUES!!!
  That's very bad...
 
  Conclusions:
  I bought pes2008 two days ago (preorder) ....
  I will play it because I bought it...
  I won't try playing fifa2008 and then pes2008 because 
 if I do so I will definitely throw away pes2008....
  You should play both games... You will see the difference...
  Fifa feels like the real thing....
 
  PEs fells like arcade soccer game....
  Try it yourself! You will see I'm right... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKoop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 4:48 am PT
Review:  PES or Winning Eleven to some has for me always been the best in the footballing franchise ever 
 since it was originally known as ISS (International Superstar Soccer) beating the likes of FIFA 
 and Adidas Power Soccer. This year round I started of with FIFA as its usually released ahead 
 of PES by a few weeks and this year FIFA had a vast improvement on last years entry, I hoped PES 
 would follow suit and it has; last years entry in the PES series was a bit of a rush job it felt 
 no different gameplay wise than PES6 did on the PS2.
  
  This time round PES 7 (or 2008) is greatly improved on gameplay, sound, graphics and general navigation, 
 there is a lot more to offer the hardcore footy fan this time, with extensive edit mode where 
 the user can upload pictures of team badges, logos, and your own face via the Xbox Live Vision 
 Cam, I havent tried this feature yet but it does look promising for those of you who prefer to 
 have proper kits etc. Personally I love the game for its gameplay and it doesnt lack in that 
 the year, its fast, fluent and precise and requires a lot more think both with formations and 
 tactics if youre playing the game on a harder difficulty; but it soon becomes familiar and easier 
 to work.
  Graphics wise it has that distinct Konami look about it, fans of the developer will know what 
 I mean (if you follow the series or MGS series) everything looks crisp &amp; sharp as it should 
 be, previous entries have never really scrimped on looks just the licenses that are missing (but 
 again that shouldnt bother some) Finally PES has some new commentators in form of Jon Champion 
 who does ITV 4s Champions League and Mark Lawerenson the pundit from the BBC. Commentary is so-so 
 in my opinion, but an improvement from Trevor Brooking &amp; Peter Brackley, as these two were 
 getting old although some fans may miss them? Crowds sound realistic and good; menu music on the 
 other hand will never changeunfortunately.
  
  Overall PES 2008 looks great, feels great and plays even better than its predecessor and its 
 rival (FIFA 08) to any football fan who has yet to pick up a footie title this year make sure PES 
 is it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
