-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Project Gotham Racing 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/projectgothamracing3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The in-car view must be seen to be believed.
 Thrilling sense of speed.
 Online play is lag-free and fun.
 Driving plus bhangra music equals grins.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Career modes are relatively short.
 No damage modeling.
 Maximum of eight players online seems a bit low for next-gen.
 Load times can be tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.9, 97 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 10,203 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Bizarre Creations
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Nov 16, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Project Gotham Racing 3 ushers in the next generation of gaming in high-speed style. 

  With the launch of every new gaming console, certain titles define the technological capacity of 
 that platform and usher in the next generation in style. For the Nintendo 64, it was Mario 64; 
 for the original Xbox, it was Halo. Just days before the launch of the Xbox 360, we have a new 
 candidate for that honor: Bizarre Creations' Project Gotham Racing 3, a gripping and intense racing 
 game that is a welcome addition to the 360's launch lineup.  

          What could be better than driving the car of your dreams in race locales that look this 
 good?     

  One of the hallmarks of the PGR series has always been its volume -- the large numbers of tracks 
 set in a variety of exotic locales, and a list of drivable cars that, based on sheer numbers alone, 
 set the mouths of car aficionados agape. That number has been pared down considerably in PGR 3, 
 to around 80 vehicles. But what an 80 it is. Instead of starting you out in a modest VW Corrado 
 or Honda CRX, right off the bat in PGR 3 you'll have access to some of the hottest high-performance 
 rides in the world. Models from elite makers such as Ferrari, TVR, RUFs, Mercedes, Lotus, and Shelby 
 are available to you from the get-go -- provided you have the credits to pay for them, of course. 

  Luckily, money comes quick in PGR 3, thanks to the game's centerpiece, the career mode. The mode's 
 been split into two subsections -- a solo career that has you take on artificial intelligence-controlled 
 drivers, and an online career mode that pits you against real-life drivers in a number of online 
 events. By completing events over a variety of difficulty levels (like in PGR 2, difficulty is 
 noted by medals ranging from tin to platinum) , you earn credits that pile up quickly and let you 
 fill your garages (yes, note the plural) with the coolest collection of performance autos imaginable. 

  When it comes to mission variety, PGR 3's solo career mode will feel very familiar to anyone who's 
 played the PGR series before. You'll have your straight-ahead street races, of course, which will 
 pit you against one or more other opponents in a fight to the checkered flag, and elimination races -- multilap 
 sprints in which the last driver over the finish line is eliminated on each successive lap. There's 
 more to do than simply drive fast -- in the PGR world, driving with style is just as important as 
 stomping on the accelerator and pointing your nose at the finish line. So the kudos system is back, 
 serving as a measure of your ability to feather your car around corners, maintain awesome drifts 
 around tight turns, and avoid the ever-present walls and other barriers.  

  Like the cash in PGR 3, kudos seem to be easier to earn this time around -- though that could be 
 a function of the incredible power of the cars in the game, which are at once very agreeable to 
 drift-style driving, and fairly easy to control in the process. If you've got some touch behind 
 the virtual wheel, for example, you can slalom your way down long straights, spinning your back 
 wheels practically the entire time, racking up massive kudos along the way. In some timed runs, 
 earning kudos will temporarily pause the countdown clock that you're running against; thus, these 
 kudos versus time races are challenges that require a fine balance of race speed and skillful touch. 
 As easy as kudos are to earn, however, you won't just breeze your way through the kudo-centric 
 cone challenges. At the hardest difficulty level, these races require not only improvisation on 
 the course, to ensure your combo chain isn't broken, but a sniper's accuracy behind the wheel, 
 to navigate the tough placement of the cones. It can be frustrating or invigorating, depending 
 on your mindset.  

          Motion blur effects and solid frame rate contributes to the game's thrilling sense of speed. 
     

  There's just enough variety to keep things moving forward, and it won't take you much time to get 
 through either solo mode or the online career mode. We wrapped up the solo career mode with all 
 silver medals in approximately eight hours of play. Obviously, there's an incentive to earn even 
 better medals, as well as more credits, achievements, and badges; but with only 23 trophies available 
 in solo career mode, it won't be long before you begin to explore other options in the game.  

 
  The other half of your career in PGR 3 will take place online in the appropriately named online 
 career. Unlike playtime matches, racing in your online career is for keeps, as these are ranked 
 matches. A complex system of player matching ensures that you're racing against opponents who not 
 only share an agreeable network connection with you, but also are of like skill on the track. Unlike 
 the solo career mode, your online career never really ends in PGR 3-- you are simply on a quest 
 to win as often as possible and improve your online ranking in the process. The challenge of running 
 against unpredictable real life opponents adds value to a game whose single player game ends quicker 
 than you might hope.  

  And that's as it should be. The real meat of any competitive Xbox 360 game is (or at least, should 
 be) taking on real-life opponents from all over the world and enjoying the sounds of them choking 
 on your exhaust. Just as in PGR 2, Project Gotham Racing 3's long-term appeal comes in its online 
 features, which include the aforementioned online career mode, as well as the kind of quick-race 
 and optimatch features that you've come to expect in online racing games.  

          The crowds gathered to watch you race will run to get out of your way should you crash 
 into a wall.     

  When creating matches from scratch, you have three modes to choose from: street race, eliminator, 
 and capture the track (along with team versions of street race and eliminator) . Online street races 
 and eliminator modes play exactly as they do in PGR 3's single-player game. In capture the track, 
 your goal is to "own" as much of a particular course as you can by posting the fastest sector teams 
 in specific sections of a track. The quicker you are over the course, the more of the track you'll 
 own. Online performance was silky smooth in our test sessions with the game -- we didn't notice any 
 sort of lag or warping of vehicles. And, because it's been a while since we've played the last 
 PGR game online, it's nice to see that beating loudmouths on Xbox Live is still as satisfying a 
 simple pleasure as online gaming can provide.     

  Summing up Project Gotham's feel behind the wheel is best served with one term: forgiving. We've 
 never driven a TVR Cerbera Speed Twelve, but we suspect it's a lot more difficult to nimbly drift 
 the rear end of that 8000-brake horsepower monstrosity around tight corners of London's Trafalgar 
 Tour than it is in the game. And that's a good thing. Project Gotham driving ethos has always straddled 
 the line between realistic driving physics and friendly controls; to the game's credit, this approach 
 is in full effect here. This isn't to say that the cars don't feel authentic in terms of acceleration 
 and raw speed -- the rollicking kinetic roller coaster of navigating the Nrburgring in a Ferrari 
 F50 GT is as thrilling an experience as you can have on the Xbox 360. At the same time, though, 
 PGR 3's physics seemed designed to give you as much an opportunity to succeed as possible.  

          Gotham TV lets you watch your stored replays, or check out the hottest online races happening 
 at any given moment on Xbox Live.     

  Just as in previous games, there's no real penalty for crashing into walls and obstacles, other 
 than losing momentum. Damage is once again only cosmetic, and not even that is impressively modeled. 
 A high-speed collision will usually only result in a cracked windshield or a busted side-view mirror, 
 and running into an opponent ahead of you will usually do little more than bend their spoiler. 
 Therefore, you don't feel that guilty for driving aggressively and aren't really surprised when 
 the game's AI-controlled cars do the same. They aren't exactly blind to your presence on the road -- they 
 just don't care that much.  

  The game makes no concessions in authenticity, however, in the car models and race environments 
 that populate the game; these are among the most impressive sights we've seen on the 360. Actually, 
 let's qualify that statement. PGR 3's car models, when viewed from the exterior camera angles, 
 are certainly impressive. Bright colors, sleek contours, and striking lighting effects all make 
 for attractive models that will make your right foot twitch in anticipation. That said, the car 
 models, whether from a lack of complex reflections or just relatively simple lighting techniques, 
 also have a vaguely plastic appearance to them, which doesn't always mesh with the striking visuals 
 that comprise the backgrounds. Those environments, modeled on real-life locales such as Tokyo, 
 Las Vegas, and New York City, are impressive both in scope and quality. Hit the Big Apple and you'll 
 rocket down both spans of the Brooklyn Bridge; attack the Shinjuku district of Tokyo at night and 
 you'll run smack-dab into the fireworks display of neon signage lining the streets.  

  These are merely visual appetizers for the game's graphical main course, though. The in-car camera 
 view is PGR 3's single most impressive aspect. Each of the game's 80 cars features a stunningly 
 authentic interior that places you directly in the driver's seat. Driving in a McLaren F1 LM, for 
 example, will place you in the car's unique center-seat setup, with rearview mirrors at both corners 
 of the cockpit. The F1 style paddle gearshifts you'd find in a real Ferrari 355 GTS are also in 
 the game. Look down at your feet in the McLaren F1 and you'll see your virtual driver's feet working 
 the gas and brake as you drive along. It's great stuff.  

          The in-car camera view is PGR 3's best, and most impressive, feature.     

  It's no 
 exaggeration to call the sense of speed and kinetic energy generated by this viewpoint a visceral 
 thrill unlike practically anything we've ever played. Off the line, your car shudders under the 
 forces of its massive acceleration; in high-speed turns, you'll watch as your car struggles under 
 the forces acting upon it, while your "driver" viewpoint jostles independently because your virtual 
 head is struck by those same energies. The windshields alone are a wonder -- multifaceted reflection 
 effects combine with the grime that gathers on the windows to really put you "in" the car. This 
 stunning marriage of obsessive modeling, gorgeous lighting, and attention to detail conveys a sense 
 of immersion that is still rare in gaming today, and it is PGR 3's visual hallmark.  

  Of course, these gorgeous graphics require an HD setup to get the most out of them, though we were 
 pleasantly surprised to see that even on a normal television, the game still retained a good deal 
 of its visual splendor. If you've got a newer TV set capable of playing in widescreen ratio, be 
 sure to enable it, as this setup greatly enhances the game's visuals.  

  And as good as it looks, PGR 3's audio package is even better. The soundtrack alone is nearly worth 
 the price of admission -- it's an eclectic mixture that mixes bubbly J-Pop with sultry bhangra and 
 elegant classical (along with the requisite electronica, hip-hop, and rock tracks) . The soundtrack 
 is a welcome addition to the vanilla playlists of most racing games, and it just might be the cure 
 for what ails on you on the track. Pop Verdi's awesome and ominous "Requiem, Dies Irae" in your 
 car's virtual CD changer, for example, and watch your lap times fall. The music isn't the only 
 aural treat, however -- the intricately modeled car engines have a sweet melody all their own. The 
 hollow roar of the Ferraris, the whining protest of the Aston Martins, the sheer menace of the 
 McLaren F1 LM -- without exception, each entry in PGR 3's car lineup sounds as good as they look, 
 especially when enjoyed through a Dolby 5.1 setup with a nice, beefy subwoofer.  

          You can't tell from this screen, but PGR 3 sounds even better than it looks.     

  
 Project Gotham Racing 3 gets so many other, smaller things right: The Gotham TV feature that lets 
 you access your saved-race replays and pictures of your cars taken in the game's new photo mode, 
 as well as watch the world's best racers run live on the Internet; the seven garages you can earn 
 in the game (complete with two playable versions of Geometry Wars, the arcade shooter that appropriately 
 has you fighting geometry) ; the custom-route feature that lets you build unique courses on any 
 of PGR 3's racing locales; the Nrburgring, this time featuring a behemoth version of the legendary 
 German course, which combines the full 13-mile Nordschliefe with the modern-day F1 circuit; the 
 insane level of stat tracking in the game, in which total kudos earned by pulling off moves such 
 as braking power overs, power feints, and braking feints are all saved to your profile, as are 
 the total number of times you've pulled off a particular stunt.  

  Project Gotham Racing 3 isn't the longest game in the world; indeed, the majority of its long-term 
 value will be via Xbox Live play. Still, for pure style, speed, and immersion, grabbing a seat 
 in any of PGR 3's intricately modeled high-speed rigs and tearing through the streets is what the 
 next generation of gaming is all about. All that's missing is the smell of burnt rubber and the 
 feel of the wind whipping through your hair.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (626 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: speedfreak48t5p
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the first of the series to appear on the Xbox 360 with stunning high 
 definition visuals and beautiful cars to boot. A lack of innovation and freshness prevent PGR 3 
 from being the great game it could've been.
  
  When you boot up the game, you have the standard options. Career Mode, quick race, race editor, 
 and xbox live. In career you basically just race a series of races through several different locations 
 until you reach the podium. You can race on these courses in quick race if you choose. 
  
  Online play is done very well in PGR 3. You can set up quick or custom matches and pretty much 
 anything else from any other racing game. 
  
  Overall, the driving mechanics are quite enjoyable, and there's plenty of content. It's just too 
 bad there isn't much in the way of innovation. 
  
  Final Score: 7.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  I think this is one of the best racing game I've ever played!!!!
  First off, this game is just amazing! I was really addicted to this game when I first played it. 
 Anyway, let's get to the point.
  
  The bad: The game is kinda short, it can be finished within 4 hours.
  Could have a lot more cars. 
 Could have more achievements, you can tell the way the tires spin are two different animations, 
 could have a lot more cars, the damage system is quite poor, the loading time could be a lot better, 
 there are limited events in the Career mode, it can get quite boring if you attempt to finish the 
 game for the 3rd time, the cars looks better in the garage then on the road. 
  
  The Good: The online is very amazing!!! The tracks are just stunning, same with the cars. the sound 
 effects are very awesome. The Kudo system works well, the custom route works very well, the Geometry 
 Wars arcade game is awesome, the feature that enables you to walk around the garage is great! 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerzone23
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:09 pm PT
Review:  I think this is one of the best racing game I've ever played!!!!
  First off, this game is just amazing! I was really addicted to this game when I first played it. 
 Anyway, let's get to the point.
  
  The bad: The game is kinda short, it can be finished within 4 hours.
  Could have a lot more cars. 
 Could have more achievements, you can tell the way the tires spin are two different animations, 
 could have a lot more cars, the damage system is quite poor, the loading time could be a lot better, 
 there are limited events in the Career mode, it can get quite boring if you attempt to finish the 
 game for the 3rd time, the cars looks better in the garage then on the road. 
  
  The Good: The online is very amazing!!! The tracks are just stunning, same with the cars. the sound 
 effects are very awesome. The Kudo system works well, the custom route works very well, the Geometry 
 Wars arcade game is awesome, the feature that enables you to walk around the garage is great! 
 
  
  Overall 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I didn't expect this game to be good. The only reason I bought this was because I 
 picked it up for $7 brand new and shipped from eBay. When I played this game I was amazed. I don't 
 particularly like arcade racing games but this game has changed my view completely. It is very 
 fun and addictive and there are hardly any problems with it at all.
  
  The thing that I loved most about this game is the variety in difficulty. There are 5 different 
 difficulty settings with the lowest difficulty being extremely easy and the hardest difficulty 
 being extremely hard. I finished this game once on medium and once on hard and medium wasn't too 
 challenging but hard was just right.
  
  Another great thing about this game is the visuals. This game was one of the first games to be 
 released on Xbox 360 and the graphics are better than alot of games being released today. The sound 
 is excellent as well. Playing this game with Dolby Digital Surround Sound makes you feel as though 
 you are sitting in a real car driving.
  
  The only thing I didn't particularly like about this game is the repetitive gameplay. PGR 3 is 
 very long and there isn't that much variety and you can often find yourself bored through races 
 near the end of the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:32 am PT
Review:  Pgr3 is 3 years old now yet still looks fantastic and is still worth buying due to how cheap it 
 is now i mean you can get it for 3.00 to 5.00 on ebay making it a steal and impossible to pass 
 up unless you hate racers.
  
  single player
  very fun just like all the pgrs and its very addictive collecting cars mostly due to having a garage 
 showing of your rides Multiplayer
  a lot of fun however be warned most will hit you of the road and you will be left thinking WTF 
 but apart from that its a lot of fun playing cat and mouse etc and easily the games strongest point 
 without a doubt
  
  Pros
  fun career
  fantastic MP
  great graphics
  
  cons
  not that much cars too many supercars
  graphics are nice but too bright at times
  
  verdict
 
  very fun game that is still worth picking up if you love arcade racers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing is an average racer simulation, it provides you with balanced competition 
 and the feeling that there is room for improvement with your racing skills. The game brings no 
 new themes to the racing world and is far from revolutionary, but still, the game does provide 
 some pretty solid races and some great, competitive races, both online and offline.
  
  Gameplay:
  Quite bland, no real thinking is required for a racing game but it lacks depth in 
 gameplay and makes you end up feeling that it's a bit sour altogether. The race tracks aren't particularly 
 good and don't feature any differences from other racing games, it would be good if they made up 
 cities, such from the DC comic world, and put tracks around the fantasy city. The cars are well 
 done and feature all the most glamorous ones to choose from, so if your looking to play a racing 
 game with lots and lots of cars to choose from this will most likely disappoint. 
  
  Sound/graphics:
  The best part of all racing games, it has come to be a necessity for all car 
 games to feature superb sound and graphics. PGR3 will not disappoint on this factor, but a game 
 can not be built purely on looks and sounds, so this part of the game doesn't really count much 
 for me, although the cars do look stunning enough for it to be.
  
  Overall/value:
  The value gained from racing games really depends on what your interests are, if you like cars 
 then you can spend hours on end playing this game, but if not, you will likely get an hour out 
 of it each month. Overall, an average game, no depth, great graphics, but will please you to some 
 extent so if you like the previous game, then you will most likely like this, but if you ask me, 
 there are plenty of other great racers out there 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Hey GS,
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low') :
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  I played the first PGR on the Xbox and the REALLY similar racer on the dream cast (which i cant 
 remember the name of, but its the same game really) , and i played the much improved PGR2 and now 
 for PGR3, which i must say is a step back for the series. Which is really disappointing.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  PGR has always been the series to be if you wanted awesome graphics on for a racer, 
 and this installment is no different. Its a pretty big step up from PGR2 as you would expect and 
 is probably on of the better looking racers on the market. You have really good looking sports 
 cars, fantastic tracks and a pretty steady frame rate. Theres rarely a slow down, and when there 
 is you cant actually notice it. A really nice feature is the motion blur when you look from a Side 
 view from the inside the car. Everything looks super blurry, and adds a real sense of speed, which 
 is what this game does well. Apart from the TINY amounts of slow down, this is an awesome looking 
 game.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound track, as always, is varied, and has music to suit any sort of Music lover, from rap 
 to scream based Heavy metal. All the cars sound really powerful and just help add to the immersion 
 that your really driving at break neck speeds. As you can see, so far everything in this game is 
 about making you feel like your going FAST! Which brings me to my next point...
  
  ... GAMEPLAY
  
  For PGR3 this is the real let down. Yes, you still have your ultra fast paced 
 racing as before. You can power slide around a U turn at 150mps and rack up the Kudos. Kudos of 
 course being the points you rack up for driving with skill, speed and style. Its also your currency. 
 But unfortunately, the game just feels Shallow. 
  
  Why does it feel shallow you are all bellowing. Well its for one simple reason. The cars. In previous 
 PGR games you could drive any type of car, in fact you had to start off with crappy cars, and work 
 up to the Ferrari F50's and you Lamborghini's. Unfortunately, what you have here is a ALL sports 
 car game. You start off with a Ferrari, and end with a Ferrari. Which as mentioned makes the game 
 shallow. I couldn't help feeling like if im already at the top of the board (top 10 in the world) 
 with all the best cars, why continue playing?
  
  PGR3 isnt a bad game, its a good game, dont get me wrong, but its the worst in the series. If you 
 LOVE the series, you will love this game. If your a fan of arcade racer's, this is the one for 
 you, but just prepare your self for some shallow gameplay. Oh yeah, before i forget, you also have 
 5 levels of difficulty, so even if your new, you can enjoy this game... but the AI gets a lot more 
 aggressive the higher the level... so be warned. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  Does everything that PGR does well, makes you feel like your going really fast... but you just don't 
 get a chance to chill in a mini anymore, which brings it down... a lot. (not just because of the 
 mini of course) .
  
  5/10 GOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  in the project gotham racing =pgr you dont do missions only races like in need for speed you can 
 drive free when you are not in races but in the pgr 
  you play races from the menu you choose and it's 5 difficulty levels 
  and the citys you will 
 race in are only the famous citys in the world like new yourk and tokyo and las vegas and some 
 more and you will need to earn some kudos to rank up and you earn kudos when sliding and driving 
 fast and when you tie up the players and when you rank up you will unlock 1 car you begin rank 
 unknown then you will be rank 10 and to rank 1 
  and you will choose many cars between 80 to 100 and you can listen to music and the graphics in 
 the game is cool and awesome and you can look in different views inside the car or very close to 
 the car and far from the car i loved everything in the game except that you cannot damage your 
 car or the anothers car like you can hit the wall how many times you want and you will not be damaged 
 and it's many kind of races maybe 10 type of races
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xFuryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a great racing game all around. 
  
  It's got good looking graphics, although during some races I see jagged edges on the cars, but 
 they still look great.
  
  The game has a nice soundtrack and it will never get in the way of your racing as it's always playing 
 softly in the background. A nice mix of different types of music (classical, rock, techno etc) .
 
  
  It has great gameplay, and the Kudos system is a nice little incentive to try and race to your 
 full potential. Execute drifts and breaks to earn Kudos points, once you have a certain number 
 of kudos points your rank goes up and you earn the right to buy new cars. The cars! This game has 
 an impressive selection of cars, you'll find yourself racing over and over again just to get money 
 to fill up your garages with the latest cars you've unlocked or still need to get. Each car has 
 a distinct way of controlling it, some will accelerate faster then others, but be completely uncontrollable 
 at higher speeds, other will do the opposite. The entire game consists of 22 championships, where 
 you'll have to either pass a variety of challenges to get the trophy and move on to the next championship. 
 
  
  Overall, if you're a fan of racing simulators, then by all means pick this game up, it should be 
 about $30 now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lithium_Rayne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a great racing game. The choice of difficulty level leaves it open to most anyone who wants 
 to give it a go and the switch between different racing styles in career mode keeps the game from 
 being repetitive and boring. The fact that this game is half racing, half racing style is what 
 makes it enjoyable for me. There's always a new trick to try to help keep the monotony out of racing 
 the same tracks more than once.
  
  There's no shortage of tracks, and with the option to customize your own, it certainly doesn't 
 get boring. The option to go into spectator mode on Xbox Live helps you pick up some tricks and 
 learn how they're done by the racing game pros. There's a good selection of cards to choose from, 
 and the time it takes to earn the points needed to get these cars definitely make them that mush 
 sweeter.
  
  Easy to play, nice to look at, and an overall great gaming experience. Definitely worth a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  PGR 3 is a pretty good racing game. However it lacks a real depth to the gameplay, and to most 
 of what you do in the game. Pretty much you just go to different cities do some street races, do 
 some occasional driving challenges, and compete in some races that are much longer than others. 
 That's not to say that this game isn't fun, however the game definetly could have used a little 
 more to do in it. The races on the easier difficulties tend to not be to challenging, but once 
 you start going up into the medium difficulty it gets really hard. I mean the races feel hard on 
 medium, as you have to pretty much be perfect to win. I had one of the fastest cars in the game, 
 and on a one on one race in the career mode, I was completly smoked after I made one turn to sharply. 
 While this makes the game a little unforgiving on this difficulty, it also ensures that you won't 
 be able to breeze through the game like you could on novice and easy. One thing that is really 
 good about this game is the cars. I think it's cool how there is such a huge variety between some 
 cars, how some have an extremlly high acceleration, but they spin out really easy, then how some 
 cars have really high tod speed but low acceleration. The cars in the game feel really balanced, 
 and this is a lot of why PGR 3 is such a fun game. There is also a huge selection of cars to play 
 around with, and you can also win some concept cars for completing different events on higher difficulty 
 levels. One thing that is interesting about PGR 3 is the kudos. Kudos is basically the amount of 
 points you get performing different things with your car. For example if you go around the corner 
 and you do a sharp spin you will gain a lot of kudos. In some events you even have to reach a certian 
 amount of kudos before you can pass, which can be interesting. The races themselves feel solid, 
 and the variation of events, keep the racing a little more varied. Yet it still feels like something 
 is missing from PGR 3 which can cause the game to get boring after 2-3 hours of playing. Overall 
 8/10 I must say I am not a fan of racing games, but I still had a good time playing this game. 
 The trick system and varied events kept me entertained, despite the punishing difficulty and feeling 
 of boredom after awhile. But if you are a fan of racing definetly buy this, and even if you aren't 
 at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliomarim
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  I'm shocked. What a game.
  
  The sense of speed is fantastic, the tracks and the cars. The whole package. 
  
  And i prefer 
 these type of racing games, straight and direct, not the damn tunning games that you spend more 
 time selecting the color of the frame of the windshield than racing. PGR goes against that, and 
 win.
  
  Campaign solid and hard on the harder levels, which is great. And is so nice to drive that you 
 can play for hours and just stop when your fingers are sore do hit the triggers, terrific gameplay 
 and soundtrack, very mixed and without rap crap, with is a rule in those tunning games.
  
  Multiplayer is a joy, cat and mouse mode is a guarantee of laughs, fun as hell. And the regular 
 racing mode is tense and concentrate, every overtaking that you made, is heaven, and every overtaking 
 that you take, make you want to bang you head on the wall.
  
  9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Following on from the previous two games on the original XBox, Project Gotham Racing 3 is the third 
 instalment in Microsoft's answer to EA's street racing giants Need for Speed and (to a lesser extent) 
 Burnout. The PGR series is developed as an XBox exclusive by Bizarre Creations, also known for 
 the popular arcade-style title Geometry Wars: Retro Evolved (actually a playable game within a 
 game in PGR 3) , upcoming action bruiser The Club, and the Dreamcast racer Metropolis Street Racer 
 (a spiritual predecessor to PGR itself) .
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a street-racing game, one that revolves about racing around a handful 
 of world cities as fast and as stylishly as possible. The game is successful in it's simplicity: 
 there's no crash-happy chaos  la Burnout, there's no obsessive focus on tuning and whatnot as 
 in some Need for Speed games. Pure speed and racing skill are all that is required here.
  
  The career mode features a number of different race types  from regular races against the computer 
 to time challenges and style challenges. Winning races earns you credits (which are used to buy 
 bigger and better cars) and unlocks the next competitions in your career. In addition to winning 
 cash and the obvious goal of winning each race you are also able to stack up 'kudos'  points gained 
 for pulling off slick, daring maneuvers such as drifting or getting two wheels off the road, and 
 also for achievements such as overtaking cars and setting lap times. The more kudos maneuvers you 
 rack up in a row, the more your combo bonus goes up and the more points you gain in total. But 
 beware; if you crash into a barrier before the combo kudos is transferred to your 'bank' then you 
 lose it all. Kudos is simply a tally that shows how stylish you are, raising your total kudos gains 
 you benefits such as increasing your rank and unlocking new cars.
  
  PGR 3 is to date the only PGR that focuses on supercars, rather than the souped-up production models 
 found in the other three installments. That's not really a big deal  I'm not even particularly 
 knowledgable about cars  but it does mean there's some slightly sweeter machines available. The 
 selection of cars is vast; each one handles differently and most have their quirks that take some 
 getting used to. Speaking of handling, the controls in PGR 3 are some of the tightest I've found 
 in a racing game, responsive and intuitive. Even a complete novice should be able to win a few 
 races  in fact, there are five difficulty levels from novice to hardcore.
  
  Playing alone, the options available to the player are mainly the above-mentioned career mode, 
 and a mode titled Race Against the Clock where you can practice with any car, on any track, and 
 set your own lap times to beat. Bring a friend, and your options expand significantly. Either split-screen, 
 system link or over XBox Live, you can pit your skills against people the world over. As with any 
 multi-player game, PGR 3 brings out the competitive streak in all of us, and is the perfect stage 
 to show off your gaming prowess. And, thanks to Gotham TV, people around the world can watch you 
 at your best.
  
  As with many racing titles, single-player value runs out more or less on completion of the career 
 mode, which thankfully fairly long and varied here. If you have a decent group of friends to play 
 with  online or offline  then PGR 3 will likely remain a favourite multi-player title for a while 
  if it hasn't already been replaced by PGR 4. For extra value, there are a few additional content 
 packs available, adding extra cars to the already substantial list.
  
  Getting down to the technical side of things, the graphics and physics on show are obviously a 
 huge step up from the previous two games, as befitting a seventh generation title. However, as 
 an XBox 360 launch game, it doesn't look quite up to scratch when compared with newer titles, especially 
 its own sequel PGR 4 and the latest Burnout offering. Not to sound too critical, though. The game 
 looks great: the cars are detailed, shiny and look good on-road or sitting in your garage. The 
 cars no longer look as though they are made of Lego and damage marks no longer look like someone 
 has stuck their finger into a Play-do block. The locations  four cities around the world, namely 
 Tokyo, Las Vegas, London and New York, in addition to the Nrburging  look fantastic and as far 
 as I can tell, are pretty accurate. There's something about obnoxiously racing down Regent Street 
 and burning rubber in front of Buckingham Palace that gets my northern blood pumping.
  
  As for sound effects, well it's a racing game. That means sound effects are generally limited 
 to road noise, engine noise, squealing tyres and the like. No difference here, and in fact it easily 
 overshadows the music if you don't take the time to fiddle with the volume controls. The music 
 selection leaves me in two minds. While there is thankfully a fair number of different styles available 
  from electronica to alternative rock, hip-hop to bhangra, and even J-pop  the actual selection 
 of tunes for each are well, rubbish. There's nothing stopping you putting your own CDs or whatever 
 onto your console, though, and that's what I did most of the time. Highway Star for the win.
  
  In all, Project Gotham Racing 3 is a very enjoyable, if superficial, street racing game that 
 will appeal to any racing fan. There's a lack of depth, but if anything this makes it easier for 
 anyone, even the most casual gamer, to simply pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShakouTH
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Project gotham Rcing 3 Overpassed the first 2, and overpassed my expectatiins much farther.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay is the Best feature of this game. It is just plain fun to drive the 
 cars, more fun than driving the Motorcycles in Moto GP 06. Some turns are put a little too far, 
 but at least it matches the stats of the car. The game has a great feel of speed, which is what 
 makes you keep playing, and playing, and playing. 
  The controls are easy to use, and takes advantage of the XBOX 360 controller button placement, 
 making it perfect for driving. The controls are very motion sensitive, but not so sensitive that 
 it ruins, or even slightly damages the gameplay. Some parts it just gives you a wonder cxhill down 
 your spine, saying what you should do.
  There are no upgrades to the cars, which give it your retro-style racing game.
  
  Gameplay 
 on PGR3 Get's a 9.7/10.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Graphics are beautiful. There is near perfect Shading and shining, distant objects dont implode 
 when you go farther away, but instead, gives great visual feedback and has the object get smaller 
 unti it is less than one pixel big. 
  Cars are so real, it's unbelieveable. it looks so good that it's like the System couldn't take 
 it, but it did. Some cars look big to the track if you compare to Forza Motorsport (Example: Nurburgring 
 Nordshlette [Don't correct me!] ) but the cars are still great.
  The only flaw is that occasionally, in the more natural tracks with more trees, it kind of looks 
 like it has too much color.
  
  Graphics on the Game get a 9.1/10
  
  
  SOUND: 
  The sound is great, but not the best I've heard. The engine on some cars are a little too quiet, 
 and some are unhearable. The tire screech is a little quiet too. So Mainly, the sound is aa tab 
 too quiet.
  
  Music: 
  The music is awesome, love the rock. But it's not that important since it is a racing game.
  
 
  Sound on the Game gets an 8/10.
  
  Not much to type about, since it dosent have a true storyline, nor voices, or certain platformer/RPG 
 categories.
  
  Overall, I'd recommend this game to anyone who has a 360, and if your looking for a classic-style 
 racing game, definitely get this one. If your looing for a game that lets you upgrade cars and 
 design them, I would recommend it, but be cautios then.
  
  Score: 9.0/10
  Real Score: 8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sktseany
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the biggest launch games for the 360 launch without a doubt.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is really good if all you're into is racing and unlocking new cars and 
 probably into skidding smooth turns. Other than that, the modes on Career are quite bleak, but 
 the game as a whole is so graphically amazing, it makes up for it. The gameplay can be quite repetitive 
 in single player career. There are a good selection of supercars/retro cars to unlock and purchase 
 and store in your garage. The garage feature is excellent and adds to the whole race driver simulation. 
 Also, in the garage, you can play a free XBLA game called Geomotry Wars 2 which i found excellent 
 but not worth going on the game for.
  One thing that needs mentioning is that the loading times are abit of a pain.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
 
  Online is SO fun. Excellent modes which makes up for the repetiveness of the single player career. 
 However, there is only 8 player slots for xbox live which is kind of low. Other than that this 
 game is excellent online and there is not much waiting around.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Ultimately the best graphical game which was in the launch titles list for the 360. Ultra sharp 
 graphics in gameplay and the cars look amazing outside and inside the drivers cockpit! Amazingly 
 fun to drive using the drivers look view.
  
  RACE TRACKS
  Race tracks in PGR3 are decent sized and look amazing. So good that you might stop and screw the 
 race just to have a look at the scenery. Although on multiplayer things can get competitive with 
 the fast actioned gameplay on xbox live.
  
  SOUND
  Excellent soundtrack. Very vairied ranging from Indian music to Rock. Car sounds go with the graphics 
 - simulationly stunning
  
  CONTROLS
  Very easy controls on the xbox360 controller. Feels perfect for a racing game.
  Cars control 
 very well allowing easy turns aiming this game at any style gamer in the world.
  
  OVERALL
  Great game especially for a launch title for the 360. It is not worth 40 quid these 
 days but back in its days of late 2005/early 2006 it was!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinoadr
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  PGR 3 simply rocks, and since PGR4 is out you cind find it pretty cheap these days, probably from 
 the range of $15-30. 
  
  Project Gotham Racing gives you quite abit of punch and an Interesting Custom Track maker. Of course 
 theres the Gotham Career, much like Need for speed you go about, doing races, completing your objects 
 like beating track times, and racing your oppenants. It may feel short but it gives alot of diffifultys 
 to test your skill. Next up Live, Street Races, Options, Custom maker, and Gotham Tv. Street races 
 is basically instant racing, plus it's where you play with a friend.
  
  PGR3 has never gave me any problems (for me atleast) with any frames, lags, or any of that sort. 
 For the different cars theres over 60+, with all the different color schemes it can get fun. You 
 can have a total of 4 cars in your Garage which you can, use, sell, and test drive. Graphics look 
 beautiful in the game abd wont leave you dissapointed. As far as the Music goes it OK, you might 
 want to put your own on somtimes but other than that, the music that they selected was OK.
  
  In conclusion its easy to find, cheap, and as I mentioned before, there's never a dull moment...
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pash007
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  With 80 cars to choose from and buy and numerous cities to drive around and an almost infinite 
 number of tracks to create, you can't go wrong with this game.
  Reminds me a bit of Sega GT on the original Xbox.
  Each mission/race can be tried in difficulty 
 levels ranging from simple to almost impossible.
  You start the game with 100,000 credits to buy your first car. I chose the Noble M400, which suited 
 me fine. Nice-looking car with average handling and speed.
  Points are gained during races by performing skill manoevres such as drafting (driving closely 
 behind other cars) and skidding around bends.
  The AI cars are quite easy to pass on the lower difficulty levels, but on harder levels they fight 
 back by knocking you off the track or into barriers.
  One area I feel is lacking in this game is the availability of more classic cars, such as Jaguar 
 E-Type, Lotus Elan, etc. that you could buy on Sega GT. The only classics on PGR3 are Ferrari Testarossa, 
 Ford GT40 and Ford Mustang, I think.
  You can also download packs of extra cars from Xbox live - some are free, but most have to be purchased 
 using Microsoft points.
  
  This is definitely a racing game not to be missed. I have tried the PGR4 demo, but I prefer PGR3. 
 How weird!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leshatton
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Forget GranTurismo!!!!!!! This game is awesome, Fantastic graphics, brilliant gameplay, varied 
 tracks and a framerate that never misses a beat.
  
  After buying a few choice motors you can place them in your garage and have a walk around them 
 to see them in all their next gen glory. Get your PS3 and non Xbox owners round to show them what 
 real graphics are all about, even the in-car views are great, with every car having its own interior 
 replicated in 3D. 
  The racing starts of nice and easy when you first play, but after a few races and a few trips to 
 the dealers to buy faster cars it really starts to pick up the pace. 
  
  If you like racing games then this is a must have title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Guess whats the first game I bought for my Xbox 360. If you said Project Gotham Racing your correct. 
 I still own the game and will not be trading it in anytime soon. Do you know why? Because, the 
 intelligent A. I. will always give you a challenge, the car pyshics and overall detail is amazing, 
 the graphics are still near the top for me after all of these new releases, and I'm amazed at the 
 power and feel of each car. Now I know your probley thinking something along the lines of "Forza 
 Motorsport 2 is out" and your right, but I've played both and in my opinion this feels better. 
 Yes, l know that Forza has more detail as in adjusting your cars, height, weight, speed, performence, 
 and handling, but PGR feels easier to pick up and just play withought specifics. Also, your probley 
 saying "PGR4 is out and I want motorcycels" well even if you don't want motorcycles both PGR games 
 are beautiful and realistic. If I had to choose between any of them PGR3 wins. It's got a huge 
 selection of card, not bikes, and I can still pick up a controller and be impressed by the views 
 from the first-person driving perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  The game looks beautiful. Cars look like real, you have multiple in car views and the cities are 
 nothing but spectacular. The LIVE play is unmatched and virtually flawless. The only issue I have 
 seen (heard) is an echo every once and a while but not very common. The ability to rate players 
 is also great as you can let other people know which people just go out and try to bump, crash, 
 and otherwise destroy your game and stats.
  
  What happened to the ease of inviting friends to join or play PGR? The only place I can even find 
 where the option is not grayed out is in 'Playtime' and not the online career. Also, what happened 
 to the multitude of cars previously available for different classes. I know time was an issue but 
 I loved racing the other muscle cars and such which helped you master the courses and techniques 
 prior to getting into a 500+ hp RWD race car. I still can figure out how to turn up the radio so 
 I can actually hear the music. I have tried and tried with no luck.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: haza1995
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  good game and good graphincs but a bit samey throughout ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigshow36
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  If u get only 1 xbox 360 racing game it should be this
  
  Lods of cars
  Lods of races
  Lods of fun
  Endless trophies it's just fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, 
 fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, 
 fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, 
 fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, 
 fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, 
 fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, 
 fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, 
 fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, fun, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  This game made Project Gotham Racing my favorite racing series. Yes I like this series even more 
 than Gran Turismo or Forza Motorsport. It really captures the spirit of driving more than it's 
 competitors.
  
  The graphics are fantastic, especially for a launch game and still hold up against the likes of 
 Forza Motorsport 2, DiRT, and Gran Turismo 5 Prologue. The textures are top notch, everything is 
 super shiny and colorful, but I think the biggest standout is the lighting which is some of the 
 best I've ever seen. There's a large draw distance as well, with some very well done backgrouns. 
 I didn't notice any technical problems at all, no pop-in, smooth frame-rate, and no glitches that 
 I'm aware of.
  
  The sound is great as well. All the cars sound accurate and unique, the sound much more like their 
 real life counterparts than they do in either Forza or Gran Turismo. Any car freak will tell you 
 the sound of the car, that thunder-like growl, is definitely an awesome feeling, and this game 
 accomplishes in bringing that feeling to your living room. On another note, the soudntrack itself 
 is awesome. It includes music from just about every genre and it all fits the fast paced racing 
 theme very well. I even found myself searching for some of these songs to download, if that tells 
 you anything.
  
  The game-play is where this game trumps it's competitors. It's still a racing sim, but the developers 
 have made it a little more arcadey than traditional racing sims. This is a risky move that payed 
 off in my opinion and I ended up really enjoying the feel of the cars. It takes the realistic feeling 
 from racing sims and adds in a little bit of the fun a leniency from arcade racers. Another risky 
 move that some may find off-putting is that there is no customization at all. No, instead they 
 want i to all fall on you as the driver to win races. No more grinding to buy upgrades for your 
 car, it all relies on skill now. There's still the staple feature of the franchise, Kudos, which 
 you earn by winnign races and performing stunts. The cars included in the game are pretty sweet, 
 and any true car aficionado would be pleased with the selection. There's also plenty of very cool 
 tracks to race on, as well as online play. You'll definitely get your money's worth with this racer. 
 
  
  To sum this all up, this is an amazing racing game that should appeal to most racing fans. If you 
 can get past the fact that you can't customize your car then you should have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoB
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I find racing games boring for the most part. This game looks good, runs smoothly, has cool cars 
 in it, yet I am bored to tears playing it. I liked PGR2, and this is more of the same, but i've 
 been there, done that. I don't think I'll ever buy a traditional racing game again.
  
  Give me some fun in racing. Guns, oil slicks, a sense of humor.
  
  Burnout had a great sense 
 of speed, but that got old too. Gran Turismo is too realistic and to get a good car take too much 
 time. This game on paper seems good, as you get cool cars and the sense of speed (in the driver 
 seat position) is amazing, but for some reason, I just got bored. Something didn't click. It didn't 
 have that-I don't know what you call it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidj1091
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  I can't say much about how great that PGR3 is now that PGR4 has dropped, so I'll keep this review 
 short. This game has absolutely amazing visuals and the in-car views are simply stunning. There 
 is a huge car selection that just about anyone will enjoy. The Geometry Wars demo that's thrown 
 into the garage is great for those who haven't played the series. (You can download the full, or 
 trial, version on Xbox Live Arcade) . If you want a budget racer thesedays, you can't really go 
 wrong with PGR3, but if you have to be with the new tech in town, go head out for PGR4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swift1981
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  This game has got to be the most stylish, best handling and best looking game ever. Im an avid 
 racing fan and always lent towards the more realistic racers rather than souped up need for speed 
 junk. I found a lot of games too realistic and many many games just downright stupid. The handling 
 of a racing game makes or breaks it. The TOCA series was a good mix between arcade and sim the 
 this beauty came along. I cant begin to describe how perfect the handling is. I love high powered 
 rear wheel drive cars and pgr3 has them in abundance. Just try a few races with the TVR typhon 
 and if you dont come away with a grin on your face somethings wrong. The graphics. Oh my god the 
 graphics! This is the sweetest looking game ever in the history of racing games. The in car view 
 will blow you away.
  The only thing that dissapoints about the game is online play. Its absolutely awesome , and this 
 isnt a fault with the game but the people who play it online. Theres masses of cars to choose from 
 (over 80 i beleive) but people insist on the same tired cars on the same tired tracks, yawn yawn. 
 Youl be lucky to find anyone racing a class c or b car. Instead lets see the line up in an online 
 race - ferrari enzo, ferrari enzo , mclaren f1 oh look another ferrari enzo. Come on people wheres 
 the variety?? oh and which track , oh that one with a 56 mile straight, 3 corners then another 
 56 mile straight. Wheres the fun in racing the same car flat out in a straight line for 90% of 
 the race. But I suppose thats the fault with the online gaming community, great idea but bad in 
 principal. Another good example FIFA. Barcelona vs Man utd again? ha. But anyway I was reviewing 
 pgr3. The only thing that would have made it perfect is the odd classic like a cosworth or rx7, 
 oh look pgr4! Lets hope pgr 4 is as good if not better, il be buying it october 12th. Not too sure 
 about the whole motorbike thing tho, thats best left to moto gp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukePenfold
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game my favourite part of this game is the cars handling because its easy. 
 The graphics are amazing the cars look more real than ever the tracks are very good with lots of 
 detail. The sound is really good each car has its own sound. The gameplay is fun there are lots 
 of good cars to choose from and some good tracks to race on my favourite track is New York. After 
 playing other racing games on the 360 pgr3 has got to be the best. Overall pgr3 is a really good 
 racing game and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHenze
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The Project Gotham Racing series is a great mix between arcade and sim racing. I have played all 
 of the PGR games and really have enjoyed them all. Project Gotham Racing 3 has great graphics and 
 the feeling of how all of the different cars handle is awesome. However, this game lacks two things 
 that would have made it much more enjoyable.
  One: What happened to the American Muscle?! Sure, there is a Corvette and a Mustang or two, but 
 what happened to the older, true American muscle that Project Gotham Racing 2 had? I really enjoyed 
 racing the 69 Corvette, 68 GTO, and the Trans Am. Not everyone wants to go 230mph in some exotic, 
 fiber-glass piece of junk.
  Two: Can we get some customization? I think that being able to customize the engines, body, and 
 parts of the cars you buy would be a great addition to PGR. Maybe someday in the future
  This being said PGR3 is still a fun game and I will continue to buy the series just as long as 
 they dont get rid of the American made cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  I'm not a great fan of racing games so I was quite worried when I decided to buy Project Gotham, 
 however, I have to say that it is possibly the best racing game I have ever played. To start with, 
 the graphics are stunning (especially on the car models) , even 2 years since its release, another 
 aspect of the game that has been carefully executed are the detailed cities (and tracks) that you'll 
 race in throughout the singleplayer campaign.
  
  Online play is availbale too, and is one of the smoothest around, there are plenty of tournaments 
 and other events for you to compete against as well. Not forgetting Gotham TV which allows you 
 to record your races and watch your friends.
  
  PGR 3 has no real issues, perhaps the lack of tracks but that can't take away the sheer enjoyment 
 and hours of fun that anyone is sure to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leaping-tiger
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  i first played this game on my friends 360 and since then i have loved it. so far i have completed 
 it on silver and it is still as much fun as when i first got it. the multiplayer is good and the 
 graphics are amazing. i would say it i the best racing game on the 360. definately play it even 
 if you dont buy it because it is so much fun. i like the fact that you can use any car for any 
 race and that your opponents change depending on the car you use. all in all a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorberg02
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for the first time the other day. I played through maybe a few hours, enough 
 to beat the first two championships on gold and a little bit of the next ones.
  
  I am unhappy with quite a few of this game's features. But I'd like to start off with the good 
 about this game first.
  
  Good:
  1. The graphics are phenomenal. Absolutely outstanding. The car models are detailed lovingly and 
 accurately. I know a Radical SR3 Turbo when I'm looking at one in this game. 2. The replay system. 
 It is awesome. I love the camera angles this system utilizes. It is in every way better than PGR2's 
 replay system, which in itself was awesome itself.
  3. Cockpit view. Modeling the interiors of every single car in the game is what some might begin 
 to call overkill, but still, bravo Bizarre. That is fantastic. Even the speedo and tach move.
 
  
  That's it. Now the bad.
  
  Bad:
  1. AI. The AI in this game consists of a group of kids who idolize Paul Walker, Vin Diesel, and 
 own The Fast and The Furious Special Edition Box Set on BluRay. The lines these morons take is 
 absolutely hysterical. They are so wrong and waste so much time and speed that it is incredible 
 that they manage to stay in front of you for as long as they do on some of these races.
  AI in PGR2 was intelligent. These cars took lines the proper way: they braked, they took the apex 
 of the corner with no tire squeal AT ALL, and accelerated out of the turn with optimal speed. You 
 had to do the same in turn if you had any chance of beating street races on Gold or Platinum.
 
  2. Car intermixing. How is it possible to have a street race between a Lamborghini Murcielago, 
 a Honda NSX, a Ferrari Testarossa, and a Noble M400 all at the same time? Did Bizarre fire all 
 of its previous designers? Did they hire 12 year olds here? What is going on?! A group of cars 
 consisting of 4 distinctly different classes (not to mention eras) should not perform exactly the 
 same in a race, and yet they do. A Dodge Viper GTS stays neck and neck with a Ferrari F430 in a 
 race stocked to the brim with tight right handers.
  3. Difficulty. I realize Hard is supposed to be hard, but the races are downright ridiculous on 
 Hard. You must be near flawless on every turn to have any chance of. The first Overtake consists 
 of Murcielagos, Nobles, F430s, Vipers, and Vantages (of all cars) . I just managed to overtake 6 
 cars (Gold) after a good couple dozen retries with seconds remaining.
  4. Physics. I think what adds to the above difficulty is the shoddy physics in this game. This 
 is by far the biggest arcade departure in the PGR series. The cars feel floaty, the turns feel 
 wrong, it's like I'm playing Crazy Taxi.
  PGR2 felt loads more like a sim, with a bit of arcade flavor still mixed in. And I liked that. 
 The driving lines were more defined, and YOU WERE ACTUALLY REWARDED FOR TAKING THEM CORRECTLY. 
 Instead, PGR3's Kudos system commends you on taking BREAKNECK powerslides. 5. Sound. Maybe Bizarre 
 just expects you to play your own music. But what in the hell happened to this game's soundtrack? 
 Am I supposed to enjoy listening to an idiotic looping techno beat? Is 85% of this stupid soundtrack 
 techno? I heard ONE rock song when I was watching a replay. ONE. This is simply unacceptable. During 
 several races, I couldn't hear any music at all. Just some muffled noise in the background like 
 a couple of mice screwing behind a wall. PGR2's soundtrack was outstanding. Great, memorable songs 
 played that you looked forward to hearing and instantly recognized when they played again after 
 several hours. 6. XBL interference. A minor quibble, yet a quibble all the same. While I'm in the 
 middle of a race, I can expect to have a stupid pop up telling me that one of my friends has signed 
 on to XBL. But this doesn't just happen once. It happens 6 times. In the timespan of 5 minutes. 
 I hope to God this feature can be turned off.
  7. HUD. The vertical line tachometer is simply disgusting. I have previously only seen it in NFS 
 games' multiplayer. It is an awful design and does not belong in the career mode HUD. Again, PGR2 
 had a normal analog tachometer to indicate when to shift. I understand a view is available to have 
 the tach and speedo in front of you, but it is in a first person view, and this view is simply 
 worthless if you are trying to do well on a Cone Challenge. You can also try and squint at the 
 dash in front of you using the cockpit view (which is a neat feature I do commend Bizarre on.)
 
  8. Weather effects. WHERE ARE THEY? One of the most awesome features PGR2 had were the weather 
 effects. Leaves blew in windy Chicago. Rain poured in torrents (and realistically affected the 
 physics and gameplay) in Sydney. This game feels as barren as Forza 2.
  9. Damage modeling. They might as well have left it out completely. What is there is a laugh. Slam 
 into a guardrail going 100, and the sound of the impact is that of a metal bat tapping a street 
 light. The result of the impact is a nickel sized dent and fully functional lights. Oh boy realism!
 
  
  This game is extremely sloppy. It desperately could have used more polishing time. It still is 
 sort of fun! I mean, it tries so hard to be good. I like the menu layout, I adore the stunningly 
 realistic car models, and even the cone challenges have retained their fun. But it is marred so 
 badly that it just falls flat on its face.
  
  Do yourself a favor, please rent this game if you intend to play it. Save your rambling, Brian. 
 This game is not an 8.8. Nowhere near it. Those interested, rent it. Try it. If you like arcade 
 racers with brilliant graphics, you'll love this. Others who enjoy more sim like gameplay that 
 games like PGR2 provided, stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokizarro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  This game is the best racing game i have ever played in my life, Best graphics on any racing game, 
 best difficuty settings, no glitches, lots of beautiful cars to choose from, i love this game and 
 it is the best racing game i have ever played.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are the best i have ever seen in my life on any racing game, and one of 
 the best looking games on the Xbox 360 right now. The graphics are excellent everything is purely 
 detailed right down to the last spectator.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is basic enough really, just race, but it's still fun with Gorgeous enviroments 
 and superb AI which is what really keeps the game smooth, alive and just plain fun.
  
  The bad: There is nothing really bad about this game except that it is very easy to unlock the 
 best car in the game (took me 2 hours) but that is it
  
  The good: Everything like i said before beautiful graphics, Lovely looking cars, Great AI, Perfect 
 difficulty settings and so much more to keep you occupied.
  
  Overall: Please try this game out, I don't care what you do i don't care if you rent it, buy it, 
 borrow it, Just Play it!. This is the best racing game i have ever played in my life and you will 
 most likely agree after playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggy887766
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for a fun and competitive racing game, then this is for you. It has great graphics 
 and great car control. If you think the cars are hard to handle then you probably should spend 
 more time getting used to them. Hardest car to control was F50, if you have 1-2 months then you 
 can easily get used to it. It's even a platinum hit and is well worth that $30. Only problem i 
 had was people online being complete retards and gunning the first turn only to slam into the barrier 
 and screw more people up. Any racer should get this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Cities
  
  PGR3 offers players four cities to race through: Tokyo, Las Vegas, New York and London, as well 
 as the N&uuml; rburgring.
  
  Cars
  
  PGR3 features 80 licensed cars from over 30 manufacturers such as Ferrari, Dodge and Lamborghini.
 
  
  In PGR2 the car models were comprised of 10,000 polygons and damage looks like it was made of clay, 
 but with the next generation hardware's power Bizarre's modelers have been able to put as many 
 as 105,000 polygons worth of detail into the cars, although it was initially stated that most cars 
 comprise of 80,000- with 40,000 of those being spent on the exterior and the remaining 40,000 on 
 the interior, Bizarre issued a statement of apology stating that the average polygons per car is 
 actually closer to 96,000. The increased polygon count allows for smoother, less jagged-shaped 
 cars than in earlier games. Of the 80 cars in the game, 71 are unlocked and available for play 
 at the start of a new game, while the remaining 9 (prototypes, one-offs, and concept) cars are 
 left for the player to unlock after attaining a new rank in their career count of earned Kudos.
 
  
  On April 14, 2006 Bizarre made the PGR3 Speed Pack containing 12 new cars available for download 
 on the Xbox Live Marketplace. On May 22, 2006 Bizarre and Microsoft formed an advertising deal 
 with Cadillac to feature four of Cadillac's cars in PGR3, all available on Live Marketplace for 
 free (three were also available in-game for free) . On July 12, 2006, the third downloadable car 
 pack for PGR3, the Style Pack was released with a total of twelve cars and made available for a 
 small number of points.
  
  Unlike PGR2, where new cars were bought using Kudos Tokens (gained by reaching accumulated Kudos 
 milestones known as Kudos Ranks) , new cars are bought with virtual cash (credits) in PGR3. Credits 
 are gained by winning online races, earning Kudos, which are like style points and winning offline 
 tournaments. The cars in the game retail for their rough real-world showroom value.
  
  Also unlike PGR2, there are no Porsches to be found, apart from one which can be purchased once 
 on has earned 90,000 Kudos in career mode. But to make up for the lack of Porsches, Porsche-based 
 RUF is used, originally reserved for Gran Turismo. This is due to the licensing agreement between 
 Porsche and Electronic Arts games.
  
  Car classes
  
  Similar to its prequels, each car in PGR3 is allocated to a specific class. There are five classes, 
 A through E, the high performance cars being Class A, and the low performance cars in Class E.
 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  PGR3 allows multiplayer offline with up to two players on one Xbox 360 console or more players 
 via system link. PGR3 offers online integrated scoreboards for single player career events as well 
 as Time Trials and test track times.
  
  Gamers with Xbox Live Gold are able to race with up to seven other competitors in races online. 
 Online career (ranked) and playtime (unranked) are both offered as online multiplayer modes. Scoreboards 
 also track standings for online career.
  
  PGR3 also allows for online tournaments, the first of which was the PGR3 Global Tournament, won 
 by a Swedish player.
  
  GothamTV
  
  PGR3 has a new feature known as GothamTV. With this, gamers connected to the Xbox Live service 
 are able to watch selected online career races. Live ticker-tape information is also available 
 providing information on when top racers are on GothamTV or when a gamer breaks track records. 
 Up to 30,000 Xbox Live spectators are able to watch a selected race.
  
  Kudos
  
  Kudos once again play an important part in Project Gotham. Kudos points are given for stylish driving, 
 for example sliding around a corner, taking a good line around that corner, or getting two or four 
 wheels off the ground. Different sets of points can be linked using a combo, by performing more 
 stylish maneuvers before the Kudos become 'banked' (in PGR2 this cut-off time was 2 seconds) . When 
 combos are linked up, you are given a bonus for keeping them linked together, and this builds up 
 to huge amounts if the combo is held for a substantial length of time. This bonus is however lost 
 if the player crashes into any barriers, though the base Kudos (all but the combo bonus) are kept.
 
  
  Tournaments
  
  PGR3 is also included in the Championship Gaming Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nowaye
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  I think this is easily one of the best racing games on the Xbox 360 until now. It has a short learning 
 curve*, great visuals and great sound. Ive got to say that the music isnt to good though but, 
 you can play your own music while racing. * (depends on how familiar you are with racing games on 
 a console)
  
  The game itself plays smooth and the cars react just as you expect them to react but at the same 
 time are really fun to drive, however some cars are somewhat harder to control after some practising 
 this problem should be history. The opponents always drive a car from the same class you are driving 
 in. The AI of the opponents is far from good because they can be clearly seen driving in the same 
 line every time and they while just drive into you when you are taking the corner as if you where 
 a ghost and they never slow down even when you are in their way. This gets more annoying at higher 
 levels because its easier for them to keep up with you at higher levels. You may think now: so 
 what, i'll bash them out of my way? well the thing is the car your driving in seems to be abnormally 
 light, it doesn't matter what car your driving in. So it's almost impossible to push them out of 
 your way, while they only have to give you a bump so you go into a spin The difficulty level can 
 be set into five different levels of difficulty.
  5. Hardcore: making a mistake? Press restart.
  4. Hard: Just like it says, your opponents will 
 now be on your heels the entire race but mistakes are forgivable, if you have some distance between 
 you and the 2nd car.
  3. Medium: Your opponents drive much faster now, this difficulty will take some practising for beginners 
 but can be mastered within half an hour. 2. Easy: Your opponents will actually try to keep up with 
 you, but you still get lost of them really easily.
  1. Novice: The only time you will see your opponents is at the start, and you will get lonely after 
 some time.
  
  Theres a big variety of tracks and of course 80+ (without the bonus packs from marketplace.) of 
 the greatest cars from Lamborghini and Aston Martin to, of course Ferrari. The damage model isnt 
 that good, its nothing but a few scratches and dents but still is a waste of your beautiful car 
 when driven into the nearest wall you could find. about the damage you have a infinite lifetime 
 warranty, as if you have a new car at every start of the race. And you can buy all of the cars 
 you want, even cars that are the same but have a different colour, so if you ever dreamed about 
 having one Ferrari (or any other car that is in the game) why not buy four or five of the model 
 you like so much.
  
  Some cars have to be unlocked by the kudos you have earned while racing, trust me some of them 
 really are worth unlocking. I personally love the Toyota GT-One.
  
  -Kudos can be earned by completing a race without crashing into a wall or by sliding through corners 
 in style or by overtaking your opponents. You also rank up by earning kudos you start at rank 10 
 and guess what the target rank is.
  
  -Credits can be earned by winning races; you can buy cars with these credits. The higher the difficulty 
 you play on the more credits you will get for completing a race.
  
  There are six different racing locations: New York, London, Tokyo, N&uuml; rburgring and Las Vegas. 
 This doesnt sound like much but these locations have several different locations. I've got to 
 say that the N&uuml; rburgring is the most difficult location to master and Las Vegas somewhat the 
 easiest to master. The game also has a track-builder to build many different tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Well at first i wasnt too impressed considering i bought it after i had Forza 2.
  
  But after a few races i was hooked! it doesnt have the realistic car handling but thats what you 
 get in an arcade style racing game.
  
  I didn't really think the graphics where amazing. the cars look good and i love the incar view 
 that actually feels like your driving the car :) . Environments look decent. Then i remebered this 
 is an early 360 game. so compared to the lineup out now there should be several graphical improvments 
 in PGR4.
  
  Career mode is short but has good replay value. Nothing wrong with that.
  Online is your typical setup nothing new here but theres no gliches or bugs and not much lag so 
 all in all its a damn fun game.
  
  this game is now a bargain so IF you do not have it yet get it now!!!!
  
  And BTW the wheel 
 and pedals work amazing in this game! very responsive and has a good feel to the game. A must get 
 for racing fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daewoo2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  Project gotham 3 is the third game within the series with amzing visuals and sound it really is 
 something you have to see to believe. THE GOOD:
  In the game you will find that there is wide selection of cars to choose from such as the Mclaren 
 F1 to the Shelby GT 500 concept. Theres basically a vehicle for all occasion regardless of your 
 taste. The game modes are cool with career mode aswell as online career mode theres also playtime 
 where you can have 2 player matches as such or go on xbox live and race up to 8 others. The attention 
 to detail on the cars is astounding you can really see they have put so much in including the light 
 fixtures when your racing and the sun shines right on to give you real feel of authenticy. It espessially 
 shows after you have purchased a car and you take a look in your garage you get right up close 
 and personal. Sound is excellent when you hear that new Ferrari you just bought Tearing it down 
 the street.
  
  Gameplay A. I is great with 5 difficulty settings making it worthy of all racers from novice to 
 hardcore which continually changes.
  
  THE BAD:
  Despite this game being all that it is I don't feel its the best of the series. There are certain 
 parts of the game that feel that they were rushed or smply couldn't be bothered. Career mode seems 
 all to loose and free with too much choice making your goals some what to easy and after a while 
 playing the career mode you soon do get bored if you feel its unchallenging. The weather situations 
 in the game are extremely limited from only sunny or overcast and night. Another thing that also 
 stuck out was the music, I found it stupid playing Bonjori music. Something else they should have 
 worked on.
  
  But with these things its still a great game that i feel you should rent first as you may find 
 like me it does drag on some. Out of the current 3 games Project gotham 2 seems to be a better 
 game but just that the cars are older. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunhallowed
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game a few days ago, and I can't stop playing. I'm dead serious. I had to pry myself 
 away from the game just to write this review. What makes PGR3 different from other racers? Let 
 me count the ways:
  
  - Novice and Easy modes are a GREAT way to get accustomed to the game, and moving up difficulties 
 using a manual transmission is fun.
  
  - Buying cars is great, because you place them in your garages, and when you fill one up, you get 
 a new one! All the garages look great, and you can even walk around them and play Geometry Wars 
 on the Arcade machines!
  
  - You can watch live races that are going on, and even save them! You can save your own replays 
 as well. In replays, you can also take pictures anywhere in the replay and save them!
  
  - You can create over 100 million routes using the Route Creator, and use them to race online!
 
  
  - You can set a time for each course and upload it easily onto the Leaderboards.
  
  - You can qualify for online tournaments and compete against people from all over the world.
 
  
  - There are so many cars to buy and unlock, and they all feel different.
  
  - Mastering turns gives a sense of accomplishment, especially when everything's on the line.
 
  
  - Play online with friends in several different game modes, all of which are great fun.
  
  - Difficult, but fun to unlock achievements give you added purpose to become even better.
 
  
  Just in case you didn't get the point, this game is GREAT for people who have never even played 
 a racing game before, like me. I'm getting much better, and actually using a manual transmission. 
 This is the best racing game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razalord
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Although the xbox 360 is populated with racing simulators and arcade racers PGR 3 is superior amongst 
 the 360s library of racing games and offers just about everything you would expect from a realistic 
 racing game... realism and lots and lots of game modes!
  
  Graphically PGR 3 is superior to most other recently lauched games like Need for speed Carbon and 
 Burnout and that is saying something. In a nutshell PGR 3 looks incredible and has a slight hint 
 of realism to the environments and car models. (IN CAR VIEW LOOKS AMAZING!)
  
  PGR 3 has cars that handle to perfection and once you have mastered how to handle each vehicle 
 you are bound to find your favourite motor. Handling cars in PGR 3 is challenging but fun at the 
 same time so things dont get frustrating.
  
  The career mode in PGR 3 is straightforward, you compete in a number of modes in a particulat event 
 and then move on tho the next, its not really interesting but its good practice and its the only 
 way you can earn money to buy new cars so expect to be spending alot of time with this mode! Events 
 include, Cone Gates, Street races, Hot laps, Speed challenge and a few others aswell, each one 
 can be done on 5 to 6 skill levels starting from novice to hardcore.
  
  The multiplayer in PGR 3 is the best in any racing game yet, there is a huge selection of game 
 modes to choose from and a few bonus ones for those who play on xbox live. The multiplayer in PGR 
 3 has tremendous replay value and will keep you wanting to race till your xbox 360 overheats!
 
  
  PGR 3 is the most realistic racing game i have ever played and with the visuals and the accurate 
 engine sounds things can only get better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  I am not a very big fan of racing games. But this was one game I definitely wanted to try and I 
 wasn't disappointed. The gameplay is great, you simply feel the rush of driving a car. Great variety 
 and collection of cars. Nice, accurate car modeling from both interior and exterior prospective.
 
  The graphics of the game looks really very nice but the cars lack original damage modeling. The 
 career mode is on the shorter side but it always has replay values. Nice variety of racing games. 
 The game sound is very good. Nice collection of soundtracks and car sounds really provide sense 
 of excitement which is required from a racing game. Overall it is a very very nice game &amp; a 
 must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tagheuer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is just perfect in every way. One of the first games of for the Xbox360 and a great success 
 in deed. This game has everything needed in a racing game. One of the best things is that they got 
 rid of all the not so cool cars and left the best cars out there. You have awsome brands  
 some of the best. And the thing is you have great cars and then the graphics just make an awsome 
 game. You have a lot of tracks in different cities, by the way the tracks look great. You have many 
 types of races that will keep you entertained for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxPwnage
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  OK, normally I hate racing games, Gran Turismo, hated it, Burnout, I liked it, but it quickly lost 
 it's charm. I hate NASCAR and any other racing organization in real life, so why was i drawn into 
 this game? The game is so easily accessible, if you're a hardcore racer you can enjoy it, and if 
 you aren't that hardcore and want to try a racer out, this is the one. Everything from the way 
 the cars handle, to the awesomely realistically real cities, everything rocks. If you're one of 
 those people that love to customize the insides of the cars, this game isn't for you. I for one 
 love this, as I know nothing about the inside of cars. I don't care what's on the inside, I just 
 wanna race, and this delivers! and at 14.99 now, it's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dale22x
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Consider that i am not a big fan of racing games perticularily racing sims.
  
  The Good. When you play this game i feels great, there is a real sense of spead, and driving different 
 cards feel very different.
  
  This game doesn't try to cram in very single car that it can like soem of the recent games have 
 been doing. although i think this game still has toomany cars, it still makes it more possible 
 to accualy try each car at least once. It also looks good, though.. it's no very deficult to make 
 a racing game look good, =p it still does.
  
  Sounds great! the music and the sounds are awesome!
  
  The Bad
  
  Really meant for fans 
 of racing games, if i had a nice set up with a car seat, and a dashboard... and a friend racing 
 with me it would be more fun.
  
  no weather = (
  
  some of the colision doens't react as it should
  
  Overall, it's a pretty good game, but not 
 recomended if you're not into cars, or racing games.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is an extremely long and fun racing game developed by Bizzarre Creations. The game has lots 
 of variety of challenges in the game's 15+ hours of single player gameplay but the game even has 
 a ghost mode (in which you can try to beat a ghost of your own best time on a track --or even someone 
 on Live) and several other modes to keep you entertained. They game even features a demo of Geometry 
 Wars: Retro Evolved inside the game along with many other suprises. However, some cars (especially 
 the costly powerful ones) are sometimes hard to control and feel like a rip-off once you buy them 
 with your hard earned cash you get in the game. Thankfully, you can sell your cars but only for 
 a fraction of the price you payed. The multiplayer is thankfully a thumbs up as it features a vast 
 variety of options including Gotham TV which lets you watch other players online. The game feels 
 like it is a bargain for its current $30 price and is a great ride for a racing fan the whole way 
 through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Last-Chainy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  The Good: Tournaments are held every week and they add a lot... they make you keep coming back 
 to see itf you can qualify or if you can't quiet stack up against the other players...
  
  The Solo Career also has a lot of cool stuff in it, from Cone Challenges to Race Against the Clock... 
 It can keep you playing for a long time, but It seems to Easy up to Gold, But then Up to Platinum 
 it bulks up a LOT and becomes Extremely Hard... With Practice you'll still be able to do it, but 
 Gold Seems to Easy Compared to it...
  
  The Online Career, which now seems to be dead, is also another great idea... There is plenty of 
 race's to pick from and you can pick pritty much any type of race for any Rank of Car...
  
  The Achievements are Really Ballenced... Some are really easy to get, but then they have a few 
 like Platinum, Tourny Qualifier, and Online Pro that will leave you trying for hours on end to 
 get them... Which I don't find a bad thing... I don't rent games to get all the achievement and 
 then return them, I buy them to have a good time with and having Ballenced Achievements helps you 
 feel like your working your way up, but it does not end before your bored with it...
  
  The BAD: The Tournaments are Extremely hard to get into... not just because you play against thousands 
 of people from your Region, but also because The Qualifing stage lasts for such a long time... 
 PEople can just keep playing and playing to get a better time which can lead you into a rage of 
 Re-Qualifing over and over again to barly make it in, or barly miss the jump...
  
  the Online Career is now dead... If you came into this game late, Like I have, then your going 
 to have a HARD time finding 50 games to get your Online Pro Achievement....
  
  Over all This Game is still a Buy for 20 Bucks Used... You won't even have to drop a 100 for a 
 wheel like you may have to for Forza... Can't wait tell PGR 4... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doc-PizzleOker
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  The number of times that i have been genuine amazed over a game is very few - the list is short. 
 But after my first session with Project Gotham Racing 3 i were shaken and almost slightly shocked. 
 Here i got the answer on black and white that this is the one, sometimes the graphic makes the 
 hole diffrense. It's not as the first time i see the in-car view in a racing game. It have been 
 done many times before and with dash. for exempel in the exquisite Rallysport Challange 2. But 
 the driver view in Project Gotham Racing 3 is so mush more than just a abode for a virtual camera. 
 it is living.
  
  The camera is shaking, the egine sound makes me wide my ears and my fingers is tingle - both from 
 the vibration from the road and the genuine feeling to drive quite to many horsepowers on the road 
 over Brooklyn Bridge in blazing sunshine. The sun is shining through the windshield on my milion 
 dollar car. Even if i take care of my 28 indispensable dream rides it's hard to keep the windshield 
 complete clean. I have to regret that when the sun transform it to a hazy road that prevent me 
 from watch clearly. I squint to try see trough. The sunhaze is just there in one second, but in 
 one second you will get fairly far when you are travel in 186 mph. I drive stright into the banister 
 with my beautiful Ferrari F430 and get passed by a line of pearls, shining metal sweet whose common 
 expense fulfil the budget at a smaller state. The lap is over. But happy as before, because well 
 at home in the garage. i see that my car is Completly unhurt and that is just to jump in and drive 
 again. And not just that, I have also been tempt for a ride that i thought was impossible on tv 
 - plasma or not.
  
  It's not strange that the vissual gets so conclusive in a racing game - the whole genre is about 
 giving illusion to the player of sitting in the driver seat, thought you actually sitting in the 
 couch and stare on the tv. An rpg ( Role-Playing Game ) can look as terrible but still offer a 
 fantastic journey. But a racing game dont get better than it's looks, and the first racing game 
 to the Xbox 360 looks better then anything that have been seen before.
  
  IT SOUNDS BETTER TO
  Once i saw a parked Ferrari outside a cafe in Stockholm. it's the closest 
 way i have been to a Ferrari, so i can't conclude how authentic the egine sound is in Bizarres 
 newest creation. I can just easy and impartial establish that the cars - all of them - sounds complete 
 damned fantastic, It bubble, roar , whine and boil. It's love and happines that is tingle in the 
 stomach. Put together the vibration on the controller, the shaking camera from the internal view 
 and Mozarts Dies Irae on the radio, then you will easy split the pulse to the max from the hours 
 you got with Fear. And what is more scary than that: a little girl or the knowledg that you are 
 surrounded by evil opponents that just wating on the right moment to put you to the wall as a stamp.
 
  
  DON'T FEEL SORY FOR ME STOCKE-HOLM
  It's sad but true: Stockholm dosen't exist anymore. that who practicaly was 23 per cent of the 
 charm with Project Gotham Racing 2 is in other words gone. And you can maby understand that. I'm 
 still amaze that our main capital got a portrait there and the odds that it should be back again 
 was probably never particular low. instead we can burn tires in Tokyo, New York, Las Vegas and 
 London - With a detour from Germany and there legendary and 15 miles long course N&uuml; rburgring 
 ( that evidently transform to some sort of obligatorium in the context ) Do you get confused about 
 free roam games when you dont know what to do next? calm down. Partly you not alone and partly 
 you dont have to worry about it now. The Grand theft Auto illness have not affect the Project Gotham 
 Racing-series yet. You not have to glide around the city to find a garage that can lower the car 
 or instal neonlights. You not have to deign your own book mark and potter up with fingerpaint on 
 the hood. You not have to nag the brakes on the front right and lower the airpressure on the rear 
 left.
  It's just jump in and race.
  And there will be race. Your soloride gose through all of the avaiable citys, in a multi diffrent 
 competitions. Most competition feels known by the fan of the series. It's a ordinary race ( as 
 pass over the finishline first ) mixed with more altenetive games like driving between cones on 
 a timelimit, drift as mush as possible or drive a lap on a specfic time. And left we have the series 
 singnature: the so important and genuine Kudospoints.
  The point with the points is that they will be shared to you when you do something that the boys 
 and the girls on Bizarre Creations imagine is stylish. In front of all it's about driftning. Wish 
 certain my object against. The whole point on a racetrack is to have as great road grip and as 
 straight raceing line as possible. Everytime you skid you have actually cause a misstake. But not 
 here. Here you will get points instead.
  Especially problematic could it bee when you have to parry between a smal gate of cones and at 
 the same time try to getting up to indicated kudopoint frontier. But this is not all. For players 
 that feels home with the Need For Speed: Most Wanted are going to feel welcome in PGR 3. With the 
 stolen, gametype eliminator. Last in after each lap eliminates out from the race until just two 
 remains. And two drivers on a hot duel with a single opponet but a very potent one is always exciting. 
 But overal i and my ambition have most fun when i drill with the speed test. Here it's about to 
 get up to a indicated speed before you pass the finishline. To successful complete this you need 
 have to fairly god understanding about whats the perfect raceingline. IT IS JUST TO HARD?
  The career mode suffer a bit of to easy to sail through it. But as luck would have it there is 
 an option you are able to change between 5 diffrent difficulty settings. from novice level and 
 all the way up to hardcore.
  Itself i try to establish through the game as a experienced player of the second hardest difficult, 
 because i consider it's to creapy that how well the description for drivers with confidence and 
 styl agree on my self. In some other way i had to reassess., but to nag difficuly in raceing games 
 is something of a favorite.
  
  Do you also like the highlights in Grand Turismo 4 was the licensetest? Then you are going to love 
 Project Gotham Racing 3. Its all about set the difficulty so mush it gives a real challange. On 
 the hardcore level should even the lead designer of Bizarre been entertained until the next game 
 in the series comming up. The higer difficulty you complete, the more kudospoints and credist you 
 will get. For the credits you buy new cars; the kudospoints conclude what rank in the game you 
 should be placed on, from 1 to 10.
  Apropos of credits they are to easy to earn. After some hours you have a so well filled account 
 that you could practically cash up with any car you want. And it's not some cheap rides it's about. 
 If you play a half day you have earnd enough credits to buy a Ferrari F430, Mclaren F1 or Koenigsegg 
 - three of the game and the worlds most absolute toppobject. It's dismal that not be able to walk 
 around and wait for something thats almost impossible. Sure, i can fill my three empty garage with 
 unreasonabel luxury cars, but the joy of this fact is not as smal as you might think. And because 
 you cant pimp your rides or not even tune them, it never feels like your own the cars as the same 
 way as the fourwheels in Grand Turismo 4 or Forza Motorsport 2.
  But there is a moment when the cars are shining a litle extra and are showing from it's more personal 
 side: on the night. Outside it's dark, but in the careful reproduced internal view of a cupe, with 
 a complete working dasboard with hand and gauge. and the light from dashboard is cosy as it was 
 when you were litle child and your mom where driving you home. You watching at the gaug and numbers 
 and dreaming away - until a sound wake you up and make a fact that there is three seconds left 
 until start.
  Because the opponents adjust after what cinde of car you are driving, it's actually regular unessential 
 what you choose to drive. Take the one that feels best. the one who speaking to you. The one who 
 is most elegant., it's in your hands. Then it's exciting to discover the different peculiarity 
 of the cars. Changes can make difference between rather win or lose.
  A speed test can be mush easy to complete with a RUF but hard to complete with a faster car wish 
 is mush more hard to controll.
  
  The feel of driving, and sorry to be a bit tedious, is filthy convincing, because the content of 
 graphic, sound and controll are so strong. My inner tuner is confused about som techinical detail 
 thats not represented. As the chose between antilock braking system or cars that realy get damage 
 affects on it. or the possibility to turn off all what antispin and traction control is about, 
 to just bring a higer feeling of driving. Everything that is in Forza Motorsport 2. Ford Mustang, 
 for exempel is wild as a bull in the last sad game, is leisurely and cinde in Project Gotham Racing 
 3. The car is practically not fighting with you and makes no touble as obvious far as you dont 
 are driveing to recklessand incautious when you exeting a curve. But i buy and swallow the kindness, 
 Because here it's about the smallest possible complications offer as mush high contact raceing 
 entertainment that is possible. And from there it have full deliver.
  
  IT'S ALIVE!
  When i feel that the career mode get a bit humdrum. I will walk around the garage and polish my 
 cars or playing the retro Geometry Wars that is standing in a corner. Or a drive one of the many 
 multiplayer modes. The Game contain quantity of multiplayer modes. And if you dont have any xbox 
 live friends ( or more badly, no Xbox live - and in that case why? ) then you can pretend. Your 
 Xbox assits gladly with ai-opponents (CPU) to race against. Xbox 360 center mush more around Live 
 and internet the the previous and this is the game who leads the way. Everything you do can be 
 compared with the players on the earth. And if you wana know what rest of the worlds best players 
 are doing right now or what they did yesterday that will work fine to. Watch Gotham TV and see 
 how they are driveing and try to match them. Or invite them to a lap on capture the track, where 
 the players split up on teams and race to get the best part-time of there team. You can also earn 
 career points online if you get tired on driveing against the CPU. The online part is extensive 
 and increase the enormous alternetives that that already is avilable. In some way its like the 
 previous, but mush nicer. It's just so mush nicer that it brings a whole new experience or rather 
 the same experience but mush stronger. You wonderd what the next-gen of consoles can do fot you? 
 The answer is that it could show the raceing games of tomorrow and show what it have to gett up 
 to, to keep up in the war of the throne. It can offer a Genuine Supriseing trip. It can dazzle 
 you more then one way. And it can make your day to a more happy one.
  
  I just have one word or maby several: The in-car view, The in-car view! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameGodDerek
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  All a racing game should be, but driving around on preset tracks may frustrate or bore some people.
 
  
  Graphics: Incredible, one of the main highlights of the game.
  
  Sound: Huge Soundtrack, and a easy to navigate player makes this a great feature.
  
  Gameplay: 
 Smooth, easy to control.
  
  Interface: Doesn't get in the way to often, but, i hate having to look off the road to see my Kudo 
 System.
  
  Genre: Nothing really new, drive around in circles or from point to point.
  
  Verdict: Rent it, if you like it, buy it. And if your looking for another great racing game, 
 check out http://www. gamespot. com/xbox360/driving/needforspeedcarbon/player_review. html? id=469733&amp; tag=readerreviews; continue 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immeressen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who gives PGR3 a score of less than 9.0 doesn't know how to use a rating system. Then again 
 this site gives Disney's kindergarten-level 'Cars' a 7 point something which is just ridiculous. 
 PGR3 is tops in gameplay and graphics and the create-your-own-track option is great. The selection 
 of cars is very good and the tracks are varied and challenging, though I personally wish they would 
 have offered a few more locations like Laguna Seca. The frame-rate and animation are stellar and 
 strikingly realistic. The challenges are instructive and improve game skills very well and are 
 a good interlude between races. They're also a good way to rack up money quickly to 'buy' new cars. 
 My only real complaint, and it's a complaint I have for all video games, is that designers impose 
 their own taste in music us, the consumers. Granted I'm over 35 and not hip to what kids are listening 
 to, but give us the option of selecting older pop music if we want, like fossil rock or heavy metal 
 (Black Sabbath, UFO, AC/DC, etc.) I couldn't care less about the hip hop crap and techno noise 
 these people seem to love, and what they call 'rock' sounds like the same, deviated-septum, teenage 
 punk squawking over the same juvenile 3-bar guitar riff piped through the same fuzz box. And banging-cymbal 
 movie scores are not 'classical' - just because it's played by an orchestra does not make it 'classical' 
 - listen to some Mozart, idiots. So aside from my turning the music completely off, this game is 
 EXCELLENT and I recommend it as being one of the first 2 or three games any Xbox 360 owner should 
 get.
  
  The difficulty levels will keep anyone but a game engine occupied for days in mastering, especially 
 at the PLATINUM levels, which are near impossible.
  
  Anyone disagree? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quickee42
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  When Project Gotham Racing was released at the same time as the original Xbox several years ago, 
 the decent graphics and strong gameplay gave it enough success to warrant a sequel. That sequel 
 was PGR2, and that built on all that the first instalment offered, as well as adding online play. 
 PGR3 continues in the direction that OGR2 took the series, with extensive online features. The 
 main draw is, as in most driving games, the offline career mode, which is fairly short, and includes 
 all that the previous versions had, with cone challenges, time trials, normal races and hot laps. 
 This is all fairly varied, and moves at considerable pace, with kudos and credits awarded for how 
 well you do, allowing you to unlock and buy cars, as well as traverse the rank system. It also 
 offers plenty of replayability, as you can go back and rerun the races, attempting to gain better 
 medals and more cars. This is not to say, however, that the game is too short, as there are many 
 other features; an online career mode, normal online racing, offline races, and multiplayer. The 
 multiplayer is, although solid, a little underwhelming, as it only caters for two players. This 
 can be very irritating, as both PGR1 and 2 had four-player options, and this is quite a blemish 
 on the game for those players who like a decent multiplayer. One new turn the series takes in the 
 third instalment is the considerably more fast-paced gameplay. The cars featured are all a lot 
 faster than those in the previous editions, with minis and other slower, smaller cars being notably 
 absent. The handling of the cars is perhaps more arcadey than other games like Forza for example. 
 This is not, however, a bad thing, as the fast pace and drifting cars help to add to the game's 
 appeal. The garphics are clearly the most exceptional part of the game, with strong frame rates 
 and very detailed cars. The in-car view is truly excellent as well, and allows to look around the 
 car as you drive. This is perhaps inadvisable though, as looking anywhere when you're not on a 
 long straight usually ends up in a crash. That said, it's almost worth it just to see the blurry 
 side-view, which really showcases the 360's graphics. The sounds
  of the engine from inside the car really help to enhance the feeling of power beneath you from 
 inside the car. However, the in-car view is not available in multiplayer, probably because youw 
 ouldn't be able to see much of the track on a smaller screen. Overall, this game is very solid, 
 but seems a bit short and fast-paced to really hold you for a long time unless you have xbox live. 
 Still, while it lasts, it's superb and solid, without really covering any new ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Bizzare's racing sereis Project Gotham Racing makes it 360 debut. The goal is simple make it to 
 Rank 1. How? By getting as much Kudos as possible (kudos is trick points for example like drifting) . 
 Bizzare Studios Microsoft
  Xbox360 Exclusive E10+ lyrics $29.99 Platinum Hit
  
  Here is my first Gamespot RAMPED UP review.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great carrer mode 
 is defiently the best. With a  and expert (platinum) . 
 There are about 80-85 cars to buy.  couple of corvettes. 
 There 22 trophies to get in each mode. With 2-8 races per sereis. The only real downside is the 
 game kind get repetive. There is plenty of modes to play. But overall great gameplay. 9-10
  
  Graphics: No doubt the best graphics on the 360 belong to the racing and FPS games (pgr3, forza2, DiRT, gears) . 
 And PGR 3 is one of them. Crisp beautiful just droll making graphics. 10-10
  
  Sound: Some good music. But the engine and everything else is great. The only knock i have is i 
 think it could have been better. I don't know what a game system's SOUND capacity is but i think 
 this games could have been a notch better.
  
  Overall this is a great game. Plus its a platinum hit now and only 30 bucks.
  
  9.2 superb 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mandrew913
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm a little late with my review. PGR 3 was my first Xbox 360 game (I got it on January 
 1, 2006.) and in fact, my first console game ever. It is easy to pick up and hard to put down. 
 As a beginner, this was a good choice for me. It has a difficulty setting for everyone, from steel 
 to platinum. For a racing game it is fairly short but has many different race types to keep it 
 interesting. The online play, on the other hand, will last you much longer. There are some unique 
 race types along with an Online Career mode. For the truly great players (like me :) ) you can 
 enter online tournaments for a rare gamer picture and achievement.
  
  PGR 3 looks and sounds great and around 80 licensed cars doesn't hurt the game either. Overall, 
 it is a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richb38
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be the most fun, most addictive and best looking, best handling racing game ever!! 
 ! quite possibly nearly the perfect game. Just cannot be beaten and only on 360 : ) for now anyway!
 
  The pure speed, handling and beauty of this game are a joy to behold. It lands somewhere in between 
 realistic and arcade racer and somehow gets the balance just perfect. I still play this game regularly 
 over a year after buying it and a week after buying forza 2! which i have to say doesnt come close 
 to pgr3 in terms of speed and excitement. Gotta love the tvrs and the atom, drifting and fishtailing 
 is by far easy to do but difficult to master and thats what makes it so fun and addictive. you 
 own a 360 you must have this game, simple as. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyripper
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  Amazing. This has to be one of the bes racing games i have ever seen with my own eyes. 80 cars 
 ranging from Atom to Ferrari all the way to Lamborghini or Porsche. Excelent graphics which make 
 you feel as though you are actually driving. You get a great feel for speed with the realistic 
 blur effects. Also the inside car view helps to increase the reality of the game. I think it may 
 be the best game out for X-box 360 and well single player boasts a huge range of events from street 
 races to cone challenges. Multiplayer is also excelent and hours of fun can be found. However the 
 inside car view is not available on split screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_riku
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 20, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  yeah it's a racing game that let's you walk around your garage and look at your wonderful cars... 
 and the handling of the different cars is very nice... the music in the game was well to me... 
 just there... if Didn't have my own music library well I would've choked from the lack of good 
 car music as I was racing... and the graphics... had cracks... which were apparent while viewing 
 the cars in your garage for example while looking the shadow cast by your car that has pixelated 
 protions which gave me a little dissappointment lastly... the length could've been longer... but 
 I guess that's where the X-box Live Capability comes and saves the game. I'm lucky to have an Ethernet 
 connection which really made this game interesting. the fact that you can race other people around 
 the world in your living room gives it more depth. but... my cousin wants me to say that... well 
 to people who don't have the money to go online like him... this game was too short an experience 
 for him... he wants me to say that the next PGR game should have more length and replay value for 
 those who can't afford online play... like MORE CARS he says and also MORE TRACKS THAT ARE READILY 
 AVAILABLE AND NOT MERELY DOWNLOADABLE... well that's about it... I give it a 9.1 and my cousin 
 gives it 7.9... hahaha... and that's his opinion... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freebones
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  PGR 3 is a racing game unlike any other only there's no bad street racer story to hold it back. 
 its pure GT racing. what makes it stand out from other racing games are mainly the graphics, this 
 was a launch title of the 360 as far as i know and had the best graphics out of all the 360's launch 
 titles again (as far as i know) right next to it are the physics. they are what you would expect 
 from a racing game, although better than most it is still not forza. its pretty easy to play mainly 
 because the computer can go from babying you to going hard. it gives just the right amount for 
 people with live because if you played it on single player and liked it you'll like it more on 
 live.
  the sounds are great they really did put the right sounds for the right car unlike racers like 
 NFS where all cars are practically the same. overall i would say if you like racers. this is one 
 of the best you can get your hands on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas830
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is an evolution of PGR2, and it improves in many fields. For instance, the graphics are even 
 better, there is a photo mode, more online options, and more. However, in the transition PGR3 lost 
 some of the feeling that made PGR2 so great. For example, cheaper sporty cars are no longer available 
 (with the exception of the Cooper S) . Also, the one player mode was modified, so not as much time 
 can be spent with a single car class, and you can beat the entire championship mode with a single 
 car. Along with having fewer cities, this takes away the variety and replay value that PGR2 had. 
 But PGR3 is still a must own for car fans and for anyone who liked the first two games in the PGR 
 series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best racer on the 360. At first glance I wasn't too impressed but once I got 
 into it I was sucked into the game. The number of cars you can buy is huge and the tracks are various 
 in number. I found myself completing the game over and over again to get all the cars so I could 
 unlock all the garages. Each car has an amazingly accurate interior and the game soundtrack is 
 excellent and varied so all tastes in music are there from heavy metal, hip hop, techno and even 
 classical. It's a shame the game wasn't that long but the replay value is excellent. Hopefully 
 PGR4 will build off this to make an even better racer with more cars and more tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Project gotham racing 3 has had a weird time in development when certain people visited to see 
 how the game was going it was laying about in different harddrives in a mess and needed finished 
 badly this was the rush for the 360s launch and it must of been a terrible time for the makers 
 but its finished and even now in 2007 it matches most of the games that have came out over the 
 one and a half years.
  
  graphics/visuals
  First of all this game on a high def tv looks the buisness and it shows a big taste of what is 
 to come in the following year most of the time the screen blurs that makes pgr 3 look unbelieavble 
 at times.
  
  The cars are detailed to the highest standards aswell with realistic in car camera.
  
  career
 
  the usual kudos thing but still fun there is no weather at all this is dissapointing i love rain 
 in games and this not havng it is annoying.
  
  car list
  There are 80 cars to choose from and not one slow this is another annoying thing because it means 
 you have to go fast rather than fool around with a mini, but this is due to the lack of time they 
 had.
  
  online Wow wow wow wow wow wow
  and WOW WOW WOW
  ok its not THAT good but its SO CLOSE.
  
  verdict
  amazing hi def launch game giving you 
 hours of fun grab it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryo_Kensen
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Wonderful selection of cars to choose from, all of which are licensed (real) cars; superb graphics; 
 great sound effects; nice soundtrack with music that explores many genres; photo mode; Gotham TV; 
 good tracks to race on; Custom Route Creator is pretty fun; Geometry Wars; Great Achievements.
 
  
  The Bad:
  Not a large variety of tracks, not too many game types to choose from, Championships aren't too 
 rewarding until later in the game.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  All of the cars control fairly well, though depending on which car you're racing with is really 
 the deciding factor of how well your car is going to perform on the racetrack. Probably the most 
 exciting parts of the game are the things that you can pull off with your car if you try hard enough, 
 drifting can often be rewarding and fun to watch, but difficult to pull off for newcomers to the 
 game.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Car models look very nice, yet there is an insignificant amount of damage modeling whenever you 
 run your car into something. The racetracks all look great, and the pedestrians and race watchers 
 to the side all look fairly nice standing there watching you race. Something that has always bothered 
 gamers in racing games are that the environments surrounding the track don't look too nice, but 
 in this game the environments such as the trees and the buildings all look nice.
  
  Sound: 9
  Every car in the game sounds really cool and realistic, though the most satisfying 
 thing about the game's sound is the soundtrack, some of the choices that Bizarre Creations made 
 with the game's soundtrack is pretty humorous. There's even Classic symphony music in the game 
 that can put a smile on your face as soon as you hear it.
  
  Value: 7
  Once you've completed the entire game of Project Gotham Racing 3, the only thing that you'll want 
 to dive back in for another go is for the achievements and online play. The game itself is pretty 
 fun, though there aren't a large variety of game modes for you to play.
  
  Final Words:
  Project Gotham Racing 3 is simply one of the best racing games of all time, with great cars to 
 race with, good racetracks, and great gameplay this is one game that you surely won't want to miss. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgbiker1
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  First off, I have to start by saying I was a huge fan of PGR2. Back in my dorm days, we played 
 PGR2 non stop, beating everything on platinum level, then setting up every kind of multiplayer 
 game imaginable (enzo vs. mini giving the mini a one lap lead:) ) . Anyways, I loved the variety 
 of cars and the balance of street races and one-on-one races to kudos challenges (cones, speed, 
 pure kudos, etc.) . PGR3 let e down in a big way. Sure it looks better (not much on my SDTV though, 
 but that's my fault) , but two things ruined it for me. One, the car selection sucks. I want to 
 be able to drive lowly cars like the M3/5/6, S4/RS4, Mini, Cayenne Turbo, etc again. Driving all 
 supercars is kinda lame. Second, the singleplayer was terrible. It was terribly short and seemed 
 to consist mostly of kudos challenges. I have to go looking for street races if I want to find 
 them, and it many cups dont have any street races (and there's no street race on Nurburgring Nordschleife!!! 
 Heressy!!!) Finally, the interface is terrible. It looks slick but it's too slow. I takes too long 
 to get where you want to go (load times) and you have to wait to see track previews. It also doesn't 
 show split times at the ends of races.
  
  Overall, this seems like a half-baked effort, as if bizarre just wanted to see what was possible 
 on the 360 without putting in the effort they did on PGR2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: go-divis99
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 28, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This was my First game i got for the 360 and yet i still play it alot on Multiplayer. It Has Great 
 graphics. the Solo mode in the game is great .its not as short as the website claims. The loading 
 times at Decent. And there is almost no lag online (if u have a High-speed internet connection, 
 NO downloads on PC) . The cons are that there arenot alot of cities to play in it gets boring if 
 u have no xbox live. Also, you wont really use Gotham T. V. there is tons of time to be spent on 
 taking photos of your cars and there r great effects u can put in the photo. On multiplayer; the 
 only bad thing i seen was that almost every1 uses the Ferreri F50 Gt ( which is te best car in 
 te Game) NOTE* I Prefur te Mc laren F1 or the Lamborgini in Class A*..
  So al lthe Noobs in te game just use that car and crash into you wen u race... U can also turn off 
 Coliuions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oakfront
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 16, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  I needed a racing game for my 360 , so what better to get than PGR3. Ive been playing this game 
 for a while now and have hardly touch the achievements as you have to play the game for a lengthy 
 period of time to get the full 1000Gamerpoints it offers. The gameplay is great , the graphics 
 are Revolutionary , the sounds great and probably has the best value for money for a racing game 
 to date.
  
  Overall , I gave PGR3 8.9 due to its Rich gameplay ,silky graphics and is a all round fun gaming 
 experience for the whole family ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakjbt
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  this is a short review on what i think of PGR3.
  
  the car seceltionn is excellent ,the racing is supurb, the track design is nice and if you get board 
 of the games tracks why not make your own?
  the car fells great and driting is done nice aswell
  
  the graphics are some of the best on 
 the Xbox360 with massive detail in every car and the enviorment sourrounding you. you can walk around 
 your garage and look at the real detail inside the cars.
  
  the sound is decent with great engine noise and ok soundtrack.
  
  its a leanthy racer that 
 most people will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nate99924
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 8, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  this game ROCKS the multiplayer is sooooo much fun with a bunch of buddys. You can make your own 
 tracks [i make ovals] . there are TONS OF CARS in the game and u will love all of them the car u 
 start out with is a noble M400. carrer mode is SUPER EASY. But the ONLINE carrer is so tence. You 
 have to try to get your rank up so its realy crazy. The graphics in this game are SUPER GREAT u 
 can see dust on your dashborad inside your car!!!!. Its the lighting effects thatt are spot on!!!. Sound 
 in this game is DA BOMB every car has a different sound to them and they sound SWEET......... Overall 
 this is a AMAZING game to play soooo much fun so PLZ go buy it NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 6, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  i must say this game is simply amazing, awesome graphics and visuals, sounds, and gamplay.
  
  the controls can be a little tricky for some people, but after a while of getting use to it, 
 it can be easier to race on platium. i like all the level designs, looks so real and the game runs 
 smoothly. Racing for Silver isn't all that hard to beat but it can be time consuming. But to achieve 
 all Platium medals to unlock the achievement, u would have to play quite a bit to get platium. 
 the hardest race for me to get platium is doing the Cones. i can never beat any cones races.
  
  I like the idea of Gotham TV, it takes online gaming to a whole new level, being able to watch 
 other players over xbox live as if you are watching the tv. online gameplay is really smooth, but 
 sure takes a while for all the players to be connected to play. thats the only downfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whj247
Rating: 5.2
Date: Apr 30, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  sure this game has really good graphics and sound quality, but that's the problem: that seems to 
 be all the 360 is about. i could care no less about all that, all i want is a fun, good game. the 
 career in pgr3 is lame, and you dont build up whatsoever. the worst feature is easily that you 
 cant customize your car one ounce. its a racing game that in no way measures up to forza or gran 
 turismo. its basically just an arcade game. the 360 should not be an arcade console, not when youre 
 paying this kind of money. i personally am very disappointed by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorkkiTH
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is the best PGR on the series. It doesn't bring so much new things at the series, but what 
 it has is just amazing! You have the same medal system, bronze, steel, gold, platinum ect. Shinier 
 the medal, harder the game is. Game contains lots of famous cars. Of course there is manufacturers 
 like ferrari and lamborghini. PGR3 doesn't include normal cars like PGR1 and PGR2 included. It 
 isn't big disappointment, but i wanted to see these normal cars again...
  
  Graphics of the game is just next gen! Cars and environment looks amazing! When in a race, you 
 can pause and take pictures and save them on to your game profile. You can look these pictures 
 later at the menu. You can zoom very close (or far) and just look at your car and it's great details.
 
  
  Biggest disappointment is the sounds. Cars just doesn't sound what they should sound. Soundtrack 
 is pretty good. Lots of different kind of tracks. But the sounds of the cars has been the series 
 biggest problem. Maybe they fix this problem for the next PGR...
  
  If you own x360 and you like driving games... buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:59 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 was one of the games which were launch titles for the xbox 360. This was 
 the first game I have played for the 360 and it was not so bad playing it. I'm saying this because 
 I'm not a big fan of any racing games but there are couple of really good racing games out there 
 for me.
  
  Gameplay: PGR franchise is popular I think so the fans will probably like this game. What about 
 me? I think the gameplay was not so bad but it was not great. The pluses of this installment are 
 cars, career mode, locations, replays and online mode. There are a lot of really outstanding and 
 very fast cars which are beatiful and I would really love to drive one of them myself. In the time 
 when we are racing we have to collect Kudo points which are really helpful becasue it's money and 
 it would be better to get more Kudos because also we will have better rank. When we look inside 
 our car we will see that the environment around us looks realistic and impressive just like the 
 driving model. After the race we can watch replay and this thing is cool. The replays look amazing, 
 the camera angles are well done, it is another realistic thing in PGR3 for the 360.
  Our oponents are not stupid and it's not so easy to win the competition.
  The locations are interesting 
 so we will race for example in USA, Japan by day and at night, of course it's possible to change 
 weather effects.
  The biggest plus of Project Gotham Racing 3 is career mode which is very good. Here we will earn 
 medals, thropies and buy new cars by Kudo points. After buying a new car we can see all of the 
 beautiful vehicles in the garage.
  In online mode we are able to race with other people and this is really cool.
  
  Graphics: 
 It's not a revolution in the next generation but we should also know that PGR3 was one of the first 
 next generation games for the 360 so it could not be as awesome as we wanted to. The weather effects 
 and the cities especially at night are looking very good. The cars are shining, the environment 
 looks good. The audience look not so good as usuall but maybe in the next PGR this will be fixed.
 
  
  Sound: The soundtracks in the game are nice and it's a pleasure to here them when we are racing. 
 Also cars noises are great, I don't have any reservations to the games sound.
  
  Overall: The fans of the racing games and Project Gotham Racing fans will like this game, it's 
 not Need for Speed Most Wanted or Carbon or Burnout series where the races are illegal, this kind 
 of racing games I like more. PGR3 is not a bad game, you will like this game if you buy it. I have 
 played it and overall it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champhf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  ok now this game came out around launch time for the xbox 360 and being that alot has happened 
 since that time. i was a lttle skeptic at getting this game but man was i in for a surprise when 
 i started this thing. it is amazing the race tracks are great loke the new york tracks. it has 
 great lighting and the weather can make this game so much fun. now i must warn you this is a racing 
 game so the controlers can be very tricky depanding on the type of care you buy. it is a racing 
 sim so the power of the cars takes time to get use to and it is noe as easy as you think. if your 
 looking for a true recing sim with some of the most beautiful car on the planet then this is a 
 good addition to your growing collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PawCabZ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Bigger, faster, harder, prettier, louder, and absolutely better. These are the things we're told 
 are coming to us with each new generation of consoles. Sometimes we get them, sometimes we don't, 
 and sometimes we have to wait around for several winters before gems like Resident Evil 4 and Oddworld: Stranger's 
 Wrath poke their magical little noses out of the weed-filled ground. Project Gotham Racing 3 is 
 a racing game that features real-world vehicles and real-world locations rendered with the kind 
 of love and obssession that probably makes God angry, but we'll come to that in a bit, just like 
 two previous Project Gotham Racer games on Xbox. Should we expect it to be any faster? Maybe not, 
 but it certainly feels that way for two reasons. First, the environments themselves pack in some 
 incredible detail, meaning that when it all starts whizzing past, the sensation of speed becomes 
 dizzying. Huge crowds of people, luxuriously textured buildings and crash barriers shoot past in 
 a wickedly swift blur. The Brooklyn Bridge in New York is a fine example; the game struggled to 
 show it smoothly in the preview code I played, but has little trouble in the finished version, 
 as thousands of girders and wires flash by, while the city itself stretches on for miles in the 
 lush, expansive background. Second is the in-car view, a fundamental addition that completely changes 
 the way you can approach the game, offering a whole new kind of experience compared to out-of-car 
 perspective. Forget viewing the race from the tip of the hood, this is real first-person racing, 
 right down to the reflections that streak across the windscreen, flickering dashboard dials and 
 that mixture of adrenaline and claustrophobia that real life racing drivers have to face. Play 
 it out-of-car and Project Gotham Racing 3 is as handbrake-happy as ever, even more so perhaps. 
 But in-car, it's a game that demands discpline, cool nerves and extreme-sports fingers. The attention 
 to detail is reallyt quite astonishing, too, with the interior of every vehicle replicated with 
 the exacting eye of a geek, meaning that you feel every single bump and dip in the road as your 
 vehicle shudders and your driver leans forward under harsh braking. Really, if cars somehow became 
 extinct, Project Gotham Racing 3 would make a fine virtual museum. The isn't a simulation, however. 
 The Project Gotham Racing series occupies a rather awkward sounding area that's somewhere in between 
 Forza, Outrun 2 and Gran Turismo. But, as Project Gotham Racing fans know all too well, it's anything 
 but middle of the road, and the end result is anything but awkward. It's graceful, athletic and 
 filled with more burning rubber that a fire in a fetish club. The handling is pitched perfectly 
 to allow first-time Gothamites to dive straight into some completely pleasing powerslides. But 
 it's not so simple that those who want to get stuck in to the platinum medals won't have something 
 to plunge their teeth into. There's another major change to the series to be found in PGR3 accessibility. 
 Bizzare Creations's philosophy of allowing players more freedom to approach the game how they want 
 to has paid dividends. So you can cut your own path through the challenge trophies of career mode 
 in whichever car you like, for thew whole game. And even then, if that's not freedom enough, there's 
 a new mode known as Playtime, where you can just pick any car and race it on any track whenever 
 you like. No unlocking, no rewards, just your own rules. Problems? Well, the cones of the Cone 
 Challenge Mode where you've got to steer your car through a series of gates tend to be a little 
 tricky to see on certain tracks. There are no wet races, and no lashings of rain to add an element 
 of the unknown to the races. And those of you who got used to the instant restarts in PGR2 will 
 have to sit through a short loading screen each time you retry, but that's just a minor issue. 
 There's something worth mentioning that's not really a criticism, but may be an issue for those 
 of people who found Project Gotham Racing 3 won't change your opinion, despite the swells of virtual 
 people that turn up at crackside to watch the races. Underneath it all, it's the same core of city 
 racing. But saying that it's just another Gotham is like saying Half-Life 2 is just another FPS 
 . It's got a recognizable skeleton but muscles that aer sexier than ever before, a beefcake of 
 a launch title we should make PGR fans swoon like fatties getting told by important scientists 
 that burgers covered in cheese and truffles, it turns out, are actually really good for you. Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 it's not really faster, it's not really bigger and it's not really louder, but 
 it is better in all those regards, a sleekly designed and wonderfully satisfying arcade racer that's 
 more fun than it should be. This is thanks mostly to developers Bizzare Creations's talent for 
 crafting a brilliant handling model that mixes accessibility and accuracy to better effect than 
 in any other racing game. Throw in some significant Live modes for both spectators and players, 
 and you're looking at a pretty dazzling package. There's never been a better time to be a Goth, 
 really.
  
  
  Graphics:93%
  Lush cities and insanely detailed vehicles, both in-car and out.
  
  Gameplay:95%
  Superb 
 handling and feedback, not to mention an accessible game feature
  
  Lifespan:94%
  Tons of trophies and achievements to aim for, and then there's online play
  
  Sound:91%
  
 The cream of the crop packed with the best car sound
  
  Gore Factor:20%
  Cars get bruised and winds up smashed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naztwelve
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 1:59 am PT
Review:  Great soundtrack, Great physics, Huge amount of cars, Nice and mid-long single player campaign.. 
 realistic achievements for the X360
  
  This game was a huge suprise for me , i got this free in this pack... ended up being the best of 
 the lot which included gears of war &amp; Crackdown...
  
  I bought ridge racer 6 to play after this and omg... it does not compare in the slightest to this...
 
  
  The tracks are fantastic including its own motto you can make 100million+ in create mode 
  
 
  the graphics are fantastic
  the soundtrack is unbelievable.. i hear a new track every race and not cheap stuff they range from 
 tchaicovsky to bloc party
  
  the physics are excellent,... it is easy to judge drifting around the corner, try rdige racer 6 
 you tap the brake a small bit and you drift all over the circuit
  
  the multiplayer is fantastic also... lots of different modes to play and tournaments being held. 
 You can gain experience by watching gotham tv where only the best racers are shown live in a competitve 
 race.
  
  and watch out for them people who bump your car and slop you all over the track =P A big suprise 
 but a bloody brilliant game that has got me onto car racing games =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptownzson89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Overall, this game has more graphics than any other racing game out there. This game looks 100% 
 realistic. The gameplay is incredible thanks to slides and kudos. This game also sounds realistic 
 thanks to the sound system in the XBOX 360. The new in-car view makes it feel like you're really 
 driving the cars. Most of the cars look great and look identical to the real model. The game also 
 lets you move around your garage in career mode which shows off most of the game's graphics. You 
 get to see the graphics and how the shine looks ultra-realistic. There is no car customization 
 in the game, which is a bummer. This is one of the best games for the XBOX 360 launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bellytops123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  PGR3 or Project Gotham Racing 3 is an excellent racing game, the graphics are astronomical, the 
 selection of cars is unbelievable and they are all precisely modeled to look just like the real 
 car.
  
  The racing itself takes a while to get used to as it is easy to spin out of control but once you 
 get used you can get much more fun out of it than a racing game which is extremely easy to drive.
 
  
  Best aspect of this game has to be the online play via Xbox live, this gives it value score of 
 ten.
  
  all in all, a great game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Kk this game is good - very good but not the best this game has alot to do such as multiplayer 
 cone capture team cone capture and street races and alot alot more this games controlls impress 
 me most because it is easy to get the hang off and when u do get good at those drift corners you 
 can realy show off on xbox live caus ewhen you do do like a perfect drift you just feel good as 
 your self becausae its a pretty site to see on your television.
  
  Multiplayer online it very good fun you can have alot off differrent races on multiplayer the one 
 that impressed me most was cat and mouse its funny because i dident expext any thing like this.
 
  
  On solo career you have a differrent varaty of diffirent difficulties but the platinum was is extreamaly 
 hard i have never see some who has completeted solo career with this.
  On solo career u can have alot of garrages so every time you fill a garage up with your nice cars 
 you get a brand new bigger garrage and you can get up to alot off big garrages.
  
  So the difficulty in all is just right because you get to pick your diffilcult and you pick what 
 you know you can do or you will be up for a challenge 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da1truehomie
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  OH MY GOODNESS GRACIOUS ME ARE ALL OF YOU JUST CRAZY OR WHAT????? THE ONLY THINK THATS GOOD ABOUT 
 THIS GAME IS THE GRAPHCS, THE GAME PLAY IS SLOW ARE TOTALY RUBBISH.....
  YOU DRIVE AT 100MPH+ AND IT FEELS LIKE 5MPH.... IT YOU HIT A WALL YOU STOP DEAD FOR A WEEK.....
 
  BUT I MUST SAY ANOTHER GOOD THING ABOUT THIS GAME! THE CAR SELECTION IS AWESOME....
  BUT WHAT THE HELL IS THE CRACK WITH THE KUDOS?????? AND PLZ PLZ PLZ PLZ PPL BE HONEST IT'S PPLS 
 MONEY YOUR DEALING WITH.... IF THE GAME IS TERRIBLE THEN SAY THAT IT IS... IF YOU LIKE DOING UP 
 CARS ECT..... IMPORT TUNER CHALLENGE IS FOR YOU. BUT NFS IS A CLOSE SECOND.....
  
  DONT BUY THIS GAME IT'S A WASTE OF TIME AND MONEY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilmudbug
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I got this game today and man it was worth the get. It has fun single player, and exciteing multiplayer. 
 This game is all about the driver, not so much about the cars. If your like me and don't want to 
 spend time pimping out cars or tinkering around with parts, and instead just want to race then 
 you can't go wrong here. Right now the price has droped to 29.99, so if you have not played this 
 game, and are looking for a racing game, then give this game a shot. The only problem i have with 
 this game is that it is hard to get connected to a game at times, but there seem to be plenty of 
 rooms and your bound to find one you can get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texasfight54
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is the third installment in the Project Gotham Racing series. The series has remained Xbox 
 exclusive, and now it makes it's debut on the Xbox 360, as a launch title.
  
  PGR3 was one of the best, if not the best Xbox 360 launch title. It was very clear that Microsoft 
 wanted PGR3 to be a high-end game. Their wants were definately achieved.
  
  PGR3 has plenty of great gameplay, some very sweet eye candy, and some top notch sound effects 
 that make the game suceed greatly. The game menu is designed cleanly, with a slick touch that makes 
 it prettier than possible.
  
  Getting into a game is in no way complicated. Career mode offline or online, it isn't hard to achieve 
 that. Xbox Live is a spicy addition to this game, offering a variety of different games, unfortunately 
 the game doesn't have a sufficient amount of players to keep the game fun and exciting.
  
  The cars in this game are downright pretty. The Xbox 360's power easily supports it though. The 
 game has every light, every groove, everything to make the cars more than sexy.
  
  The game doesn't feature many locations to race, as far as countries go. Four countries don't cut 
 it, but many tracks, plus a track creator make up for the lack. Another aspect of tracks, you get 
 to make your own! In the track creator, you may creater your own routes in any of the four cities 
 you please.
  
  A bad thing about this game is the damage. Barely any damage is done in this game. Very dissapointing. 
 If this game were to have damage, it would be by far the best racer ever.
  
  In this game, you can feel the speed. The screen gets blurry and your controller vibrates a little. 
 You can really feel the speed in your hands. The car shakes and jumps as you make your way to 170mph+.
 
  
  The single player aspect of the game is not the most appealing part of the game, lasting about 
 15 hours if you stay applied. Xbox Live is where this game shines- if you have players to play 
 with. The games are easy to join and almost seemlessly go along, this game has it down.
  
  Solid gameplay, amazing graphics, and realistic sounds make this game the great launch title it 
 is. Whilst it being the most realistic street driving game for the Xbox 360, it does have flaws. 
 Most of the game is great and realistic, and those parts, are the things that make this game one 
 of the best race games for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFSC0297
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is an incredible game. It has epic graphics, great sound, and superb gameplay. The game has 
 a great Online mode too. When you first dip into the game, you will find yourself in a basic start 
 of game situation. You have a tiny amount of dosh and must buy a car with that money. You will 
 find a ton of cars to dip into in this game. Over 70 super cars, and they all go over 170MPH, or 
 270KMH. Fast.
  
  The cars are divided into classes, with class E being the worst cars (Such as the Aston Martin DB9) 
 to class A cars, which are utter beasts on the track (such as the Ferrari F50 GT) . Its a good idea, 
 though some cars are more powerful than the stats say. It all comes down to what cars you like. 
 You might be an I dont care about corners at all guy, or a I wanna drift guy. The cars are all 
 well modelled, and each car has a unique inside car view while you are racing.
  
  The main game mode is called Gotham Career, which is divided into 3 submodes. You have Career, 
 where you can race through 23 tournaments. You have Online Career, in which you have a group of 
 scenarios to race other players across the huge globe with. Finally, you have online tournaments. 
 These tourneys are set up by Bizarre Creations, the game developer. These tourneys only have 64 
 entrants in them, and you have to get into the top 64 times on a chosen course in a chosen car 
 with a chosen transmission. (Curses! It had to Manuel!) The Main Offline Career will take around 
 10 hours to complete, but considering there are 5 difficulties, you could be playing this for a 
 long time.
  
  There are 5 cities you race in, each with a certain number of courses in them. You get your American 
 cities Las Vegas and New York. Going across the Atlantic, you get the English capital, London. 
 In the far east, You get Tokyo, Japans capital.. Finally, you get the Nurburgring, which has the 
 F1 course and the 13 mile long beast of a track, the Nordschleife. The courses are richly designed, 
 with immense detail. Even better, the course difficulty is really felt here. You can race the simple 
 rectangle Worth and Walker Street, or race the tough Crazy Turns. The cities are well designed 
 too, with Las Vegas having the strip, New York getting the Brooklyn Bridge, London gets Big Ben, 
 and Tokyo having flashy neon lights. Bizarre Creations must have been to the actual cities themselves, 
 because they look so real. So real, in fact, youll swear that your house has been moved to one 
 of these cities and that your TV has been nicked and replaced by a window. Thats how real the 
 cities look.
  
  The sound is amazing, because each car has been individually been made an engine noise, which sounds 
 just like the real car, so youll be happy with the engine. The music is great, it has 8 genres, 
 including Rock by Block Party to Classical music by Bach. Or, if you dont want to listen to the 
 games soundtrack, you can make the game play songs that you ripped onto the 360s hard drive. But, 
 who would want to with the soundtrack thats already there?
  
  The game has 11 gameplay modes, ranging from your bog standard race to drift challenges to timed 
 events. Every event is different, and youll soon pick a favourite very quickly. You might enjoy 
 rushing past a speed camera at 200MPH, or maybe you like to smash opponents cars. Speaking of smashing 
 cars, you cant completely destroy the cars, but you can bend the bonnet, skirts, rear bumper or 
 bend the spoiler. But you wont want to destroy the cars in the game as they look lovely.
  
  Youll play this game for ages, as it has lots of value. Youll constantly come back to get 
 50 places higher on the leader board, or perhaps you just want a casual play.
  
  The best bit is easily Gotham TV. Here you can watch the best race that is going on between the 
 greats of PGR3 and learn from their lines, you can watch your mates if they are racing in an online 
 race, or you can just watch Tournament TV whenever a tournement broadcast is on.
  
  Overall you must pick up this game. Wherever you are hardcore about cars or just want a quick race 
 now and then, Project Gotham Racing 3 has something for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heretic32
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is a game with the right amount of cars, and the in-car view is the best view I have ever 
 seen in a racing game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: I have always enjoyed the way PGR series games have played, and this one is no exception. 
 The in-car view is an excellent addition to the game and is a lot of fun. There are a ton of modes 
 to play in this game. The online ranking system is awesome, and its always fun to try and be one 
 of the top racers on a certain track. The cars offered as premium content are well worth the asking 
 price. One thing that may turn some people away is the lack of customization, which only goes as 
 far as color choice. Some of the singleplayer racing types are quite similar too.
  
  GRAPHICS: The visuals in PGR3 are terrific. The in-car view looks amazing and should be included 
 in all racing games from now on. You get a real sense of speed as the cockpit of your car is bouncing 
 around and dust is flying onto your windshield. One thing that marred the overall picture was more 
 aliasing than I'm used to in a 360 game. Other than that the game will impress many people, especially 
 being a launch game
  
  SOUND: The sound effects in this game are very good. The cars sound very realistic and are also 
 different when in different views such as inside/outside and front/side/back which should always 
 be true in racing games these days. I didn't find the music very likable, but that is personal 
 preference. It spans all sorts of music genres from around the globe. It doesn't really hurt since 
 you can just play your own music anyway.
  
  VALUE: There is a lot to do in PGR3. Trying to get platinum throughout singleplayer can seem near 
 impossible. Good luck on cracking the top 100 on any track (My current best is 535) . The multiplayer 
 is what will bring you back most.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: PGR3 is full of modes and online gameplay and great graphics to boot. This is 
 a game that 360 owners who like racing games should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xLegend24
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:07 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a launch title for the Xbox 360, and I must say it's pretty good. PGR3 
 includes lots of cars from all over the world and will satisfy your every street racing whim. There 
 are plenty of tracks to over 200 MPH in that sweet Ferrari Enzo or McClaren F1. you can also make 
 you own tracks in different cities. A surprisingly lacking feature in this game is that there is 
 no car customization. The only thing you can do is pick your car's color, and that's it. You can't 
 even pick the wheels, tires, rims or any decals. I think that ths was a big disappointment. There 
 is an online that will extend its replayablility, but that also gets boring after a while. If you 
 don't want to actually play online, you can some of the best Gotham drivers on Gotham TV. In conclusion, 
 I'll just say that unless you're a diehard racing fan, I'd recommend that you rent this first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  PGR3 offers up fantastic-looking graphics. Those of all things really lure the gamer into wanting 
 to race in the game. The amazing weather effects and inside-the-car viewpoints give a whole new 
 perspective to racing games.
  
  You get tons of rides to choose from, ranging from Corvettes to Vipers to excellent Ferraris. Unfortunately, 
 there aren't many that handle well. Even the fastest car in the game is a huge hassle to handle, 
 spinning out often and occasionally going way too fast to turn out of the way of a wall.
  
  The AI is something you can actually choose on your own, with a total of five difficulties ranging 
 from an incredibly simple difficulty for beginners to a hardcore difficulty for - you guessed it 
 - hardcore PGR3 gamers. The harder the difficulty, the more money you get for finishing an event. 
 Often, the AI gets a bit too extreme. No matter how big a pro you are, you may never perfect all 
 races on Hardcore difficulty... primarily because you'll get bored with it long before then.
  
  Multiplayer and Online are fun, but far from addicting. You get to choose any car in the game 
 from Class E to Class A. There's classic Splitscreen play, then there's online in which you can 
 race up to 8 people in any game mode you want. But that's as far as it goes, and there's no real 
 depth to the online racing.
  
  Gotham TV is an interesting addition, but why would anyone want to watch others race when you have 
 the option to race yourself? This is why being featured on Gotham TV isn't such a huge accomplishment. 
 No one really wants to watch it, because they're probably racing themselves.
  
  Single player gameplay after a while can get so exhaustingly repetitive, you will likely drop the 
 controller and never play again. There's also no story to keep you wanting to play.
  
  Above all, PGR3 is solid, but may lack the action that is involved in many other racing games. 
 There aren't any traffic or crash effects. There isn't any customization or upgrading at all for 
 your cars, but simply buying new ones, and once you own the fastest car, there's not much left 
 to do. One can only hope that they include these things in the upcoming PGR4, but until then, buy 
 a Need for Speed or Forza game to satisfy your inner racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElSteban
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 14, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Oh men those days whit project gotham 2 for the xbox sure are flashing back whit the third game 
 now, actually, project gotham 2 was the first game i ever played on xbox live, and i thought it 
 was the coolest sh** ever!
  
  Now we got Project Gotham Racing 3 for the xbox 360, and its one of the best racing games ive ever 
 played, but it has his flaws too.
  
  First off, the graphics, oh dear good the graphics! (these cars, look like you can just get your 
 hand inside the TV and open that Enzo Ferrari door and get in it and drive away into the sunset) , 
 now seriously, the graphics are one the games best features, the cars look just amazing really, 
 once you get to buy your favorite car in the game, you can put it in a garage and then select the 
 option to take a walk through the garage, and just DROOL all over that polygon-beauty, its one 
 the most photo-realistic cars i have ever seen in a game, u have to see it for yourself.
  
  Now, the backgrounds on the courses, mmmm... yeah why not, they look good, i mean there not gonna 
 blown you away or anything if youve played last-gen 360 games already, but they were really fantastic 
 when this game just came out, you see people taking photos and u see the flashe's of their cameras 
 as you pass them, the buildings and trees and the rest of the backgrounds look good too, but its 
 one those things that your not going to notice a lot since your going to really have blast taking 
 turns and getting your Kudos up.
  
  thank god! Its the gameplay again that stands out on this game, its incredibly fun to take those 
 turns like a maniac fugitive on crack while you slide your away into number 1 position, and the 
 Kudos system helps to make all this so addictive, beacuse your going to want to see how much of 
 a good driver you are, and how well and fast can you take this curves on one of the 75 cars that 
 are available in the game, and how much kudos can u make on all this turns.
  im serious, the first time that you get to do an awesome turn at high speed, your gonna love Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 for a long time trying to improve your skills at the wheel.
  the cars controls feel mostly different one from another and its fun to experience them all just 
 to see what car suits you the most.
  
  To make my point in a more simple way, im gonna put it this way:
  
  There's an Achievement 
 in this game, where you have to race against-clock on all the tracks that the game has, and set 
 a time score for each one of them, it took me like 2 or 3 hours to do it cuz theres a lot of tracks 
 in this game, so ask me if i got bored................. ok a little =P, but only beacuse ive already 
 played some of the tracks before, so it really doesnt count, cuz if i had gone through that achiviement 
 the first time i put the game in my xbox360, i would had a blast for those 3 hours.
  and having all that in the online mode whit xbox live, it multiplies all the fun for twice its 
 value.
  
  But like most games, it has his flaws, small ones but flaws after all.
  
  In Project Gotham Racing 2 and 1, there was 4 players option, so, what happened now?? why is there 
 only 1 vs 1 option??, i mean, its not that much of a crime for the game to have 1 vs 1 only as 
 it was in gears of war since here you can add 2 more cars controlled by the CPU, but its nmot the 
 same as playing other people, so thats gonna make this game box get dust on a desk when you got 
 your friends come over to your house.
  
  Also, when your playing online, you cant play split-screen whit your friend as a guest..... what!?, 
 now that sucks!, that is something that even gears of war has! and its incredible fun to do, anyways, 
 that was really depressing to find out that this game doesnt support that mode, but again, its 
 not like the biggest crime ever, but it would have been fun, thats all.
  
  I guess thats it! i usually dont like that much racing games, but this one totally got me, its 
 a incredibly addictive fun racing game, that all people who love lincesed cars or just good racing 
 games in general should have in his collection.
  If you dont have xbox live, well...... erm..... i doesnt really hurt the games lenght since theres 
 alot to do and achieve in this game, but Definitely your going to miss to play whit some more people 
 and its not going to last as much on your mind as if you had xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  What a great game! However, it's definately not perfect! The game itself is truly amazing . The 
 graphics are great! I highly recommend a high Def TV for this one though. I compared this game 
 to a high def and non high def TV and the results were striking! On the standard TV you really 
 miss the details, especailly the cockpit view of the car. In high def mode you really see the entire 
 interiod. you can look left and right (smooth motion, not just a shot to the right and shot to 
 the left) . You can see everything!
  
  The sounds of the cars are great. I typically do not like this type of game but love this one. 
 The graphics are just incredible, the cities are lifelike. You really feel like you are IN the 
 game.
  
  My only drawback, and this is a big one for me, is in career mode, there is just TOO many side 
 things you have to do. Instead of just progressing by racing, you have to run cones, speed tests, 
 and on and on and on. I don't mind a little of that but, for every couple of races you do, you 
 have to spend 30 minutes to 1 hour doing tests of various natures. Some may like that but, to me 
 it's too repetitive and gets very boring. Just let me race!
  
  Online is pretty good actually. However, beware, if you bump someone on accident, they'll give 
 you negative points. So if you are not prepared to get a bad rep, you may not want to play online, 
 or at least stay VERY conservative online. The game overall is great but I really get bored with 
 the various tests and have trouble continuing career mode with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: photonpoet2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited about this game. So much so, I bought a 360 to play it.
  Thankfully, it's not indicative of most 360 titles in the gameplay department. Despite it's visual 
 and physical realism (not matched by any other game I've yet seen) the gameplay is fairly flat 
 and uninspiring. Drive around very tight circuits in a variety of supercars at speeds that don't 
 lend themselves to the tightness of the tracks. Although the circuits are sometimes broken up by 
 point-to-point races, time and style trials and 'beat the speedcam' skits, it's still just driving 
 around cities in supercars. If I had a supercar, I wouldn't be driving around a city - I'd be out 
 on open roads. But that's me.
  
  I like the audio, replays and photo mode, which gives the player the opportunity to take snaps 
 of the action from any angle, and Gotham TV is almost more fun than playing, actually giving you 
 the chance to see the eye-watering visuals. I don't like that tapping another car sends you spinning 
 out of control, while it continues smoothly on as though nothing happened. Neither do I like the 
 fact that, if you do spin out, you've little chance of catching up with the leading cars again.
 
  
  I'll admit to being more of a fan of driving games that give you some kind of freedom to roam. 
 PGR doesn't do it for me, but I still gawp at the visuals when I'm watching a replay or Gotham 
 TV. Overall, a games for fans of city driving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asfandyar
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  GRAPHICS.
  Excellent graphics. Nice, colorful and detailed environment and also very detailed car models.
 
  
  SOUND.
  Excellent sound tracks that you can listen during the game. And the custom soundtracks make it 
 even better if you dont wont to listen the game tracks.
  
  CONTROLS.
  Excellent and easy to use controls, that makes it more fun to play the game.
  
  VALUE.
  Definitely 
 worth the value of your money.
  
  REPLAY VALUE.
  It does have a lot of replay value. Because once you have unlocked each and every single race track 
 of each stage and have a very fast car, you can play the earlier stages using the fast car to get 
 all the gold medals in all the stages.
  
  CO-OP.
  Nice two player and system link mode.
  
  Disappointments.
  I am disappointed because as in 
 both the previous Gotham racing games, this series also does not have any rally or mountain tracks 
 and also there is no rain track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PJC6
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  the project gothem raceing series is a well know for being a good raceing series and now weve got 
 the 3rd in the series which is still the same good raceing game but now with better grachics and 
 the multiplayer but thats about it. youve got the gotham tv thing where you can watch other peoples 
 replays online.
  
  there isnt much to do in project gotham except drive there are a few twists like drive past a speed 
 camera at a curtain speed or higher or drive through cones and a few other things but they all 
 involve you driveing so there isnt much to do except well drive so unless you want something like 
 this your better off getting burnout revenge or some other raceing game
  
  project gotham raceing 3 is a good raceing game except there isnt much new stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadget-Man
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  PGR3 in my opinion is probably the best driving game out there. I personally am not into driving 
 games, its not a favourite genre of mine, but this game has me hooked.
  
  The gameplay is great. There are many cars to purchase and quite a few cities to race in, including 
 London and New York. The game is very challenging and it requires skill to play because each car 
 handles differently. It is not one of those games where you can just keep holding down the accelerator. 
 The more skillfully you drive, you earn something called Kudos. This is what seperates PGR from 
 other driving games, earning Kudos is an essential part of the game, but to earn it you need to 
 drive with skill and learn the tracks and how to handle the cars.
  
  The solo career is challenging and fun. Not only do you participate in races, but you also do challenges 
 such as, Kudos challenges and Speed challenges. Career mods is where you earn money to buy more 
 cars. If your looking for a driving game to customize your cars, you wont find it here. The only 
 thing you can do is change the cars color. However this isnt really a problem since you can buy 
 so many different cars.
  Furthermore you can take your car online and win races, this also is a way to earn money and kudos.
 
  
  You can also Drive your cars on the Test Track. From here you can (if connected to xbox live) try 
 and beat the worlds fastest times. This is hard but really fun to try and be the best driver out 
 there.
  Speaking of best drivers, Gotham TV is somethign you can do in the game. This basically watches 
 the best drivers race online and you can view them Live as they are happening. From here you can 
 learn skills and tips from the best drivers.
  
  The Graphics are amazing andreally realistic. This includes the cars and the cities themselves. 
 The only problem is that the cars do not really get damdged at all. They may just dent a little, 
 but the cars remain shiny and almost untouched. This sometimes takes away from the realism.
  
  The sound is also cool, the cars sound great, but not only that, the games soundtrack is unlike 
 anything ive ever heard. The games soundtrack has many different genres of music from around the 
 world, including Japaneese and Indian music and Classical music. This is really cool and i like 
 it because most games just stick to a particular music genre such as rock.
  
  In the end i think PGR3 is great value for money, dont be put of buying it because it was a launch 
 title, it is still a great game even today. I would reccommend trying this game, its really fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegas_rules
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  This is a good game for the 360 but it is very repetitive I have completed the steel championship 
 and I really can't be bothered to do the rest but I have started the bronze one. Great game for 
 multiplayer when you have a mate coming over but really boring and repetative on one player. I 
 would buy it if you have a friend coming over quite a lot (which I do, if I didn't I would have 
 sold it by now) . The only thing it has going for it are its graphics and sound quality. other than 
 that I wouldn't advise it to anyone. Thanks for the reading the review even though it might have 
 been pointless writing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jayjay7117
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  It's a pretty good game, but... I'm suprised it's not bettter. From my understanding, the same 
 crew behind Forza shares info and development with the PGR team. Forza (Classic Xbox) has some 
 awesome features this game lacks. You have no ability to customize the vehicals you own like in 
 Forza. Buying / earning cars and then upgrading them is one of my favorite features of Forza. In 
 PGR, you buy or earn a car and get it 'as is.' I'm disappointed that you can't customize the default 
 vehical beyond it's current set-up.
  
  That all being said, this is a really fun game and is worth at least a rental. I was hoping this 
 would fill the void of a new forza on the next generation but it does not. Rent it though - it's 
 fun and challenging. Still waiting for Forza 2.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: PGR 3's racing controls are basically the standard racing controls on all or most 360 
 driving games by now, but i can't complain because they work very well. The RT is used to accelerate 
 and the LT is used to brake, while the A button handles the E-brake and the Y button lets you looks 
 behind your car. What really puts the gameplay above the likes of games like Gran Tourismo is the 
 Kudos system, which rewards players for executing nail-biting turns, drafting, drifting, driving 
 on two wheels, getting air, and generally doing cool stuff like that. The more Kudos you earn, 
 the higher your rank goes, with your goal being to get to rank nimber one. The achievements are 
 also done pretty well. There are some that players will get right away, such as achieving rank 
 #10, there are achievements that might require players to go slightly out of their way to get, 
 such as playing Geometry Wars 1 and 2 and building 10 custom routes, and then there are harder 
 achievements with multiple requirements. Graphics: The graphics in PGR 3 are gorgeous, especially 
 for a launch game. All of the car models are beautifully crafted, and they look even better in 
 1st person mode in the garage. The cities look nice, and at high speeds it is very hard to notice 
 any lack of graphical detail. The side games, Geometry Wars 1 and 2, also have a very nice look. 
 Each game has a bright, colorful and crisp presentation that really pops off the screen.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty much run of the mill for a game of this type; the things you'll hear 
 the most are the sounds of the car's engines and squealing tires. There are also some good songs 
 that play while you race. Of course, there are also some bad songs, but that all depends on preference. 
 Songs are extremely varied and sometimes the choices might seem a little strange (like the classical 
 music section) , but overall everything seems to fit. There is a nice selection of rock, alternative, 
 classical, rap, and more.
  
  Value: PGR 3 should last players a long time, especially with online play, a track editor and the 
 bonus Geometry Wars packed in. I'm not sure how many people still go online with this, but I'm 
 sure that there are some devoted fans that do, and the races seem pretty fun in general. The track/route 
 editor is also a fun addition to the racing genre. It allows players to make custom routes through 
 PGR's cities. You can make them start and stop at certain points, and control the path in between. 
 Geometry Wars is a good addition as well. It can be very addictive, but I recommend that players 
 buy Geometry Wars Retro Evolved over XBLA, as it really is much better because there are 200 achievement 
 points and you aren't timed when playing evolved mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redboxa
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played PGR3 , I was in awe. It was played on a new HDTV flatscreen tv, and oh 
 boy did it look purty. The graphics were gorgues, the gameplay was fantastic. It was everything 
 an Xbox 360 could hope for. The cars were beatiful, and there engines sounding great too. This 
 is a simulation racing game that cant be beat. Even now , a year and a half has passed since its 
 release, and I still cant believe how great it is. Thumbs up to Microsoft for such a great release 
 on launch date of the Xbox 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuelpukMM
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 12, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best racing game, if not hitting the top of the best game on the 360. The mix 
 of realism, lots of cars and a brilliant online make this essential. The fact, also, that this 
 game can be played in so many differnet ways by so many different players make it an all around 
 game. Theres the collectors, scrounging money, just enough, to get a number bof cars just to see 
 the list of garages and the car list, next to ' Number owned' to say 1. Then theres the people 
 who will tirelessly save from the beginning, gte a very fast car, and and cling onto that, saving 
 up alot of money for the future when thier car is not enough. Then theres the online people, who 
 by the time they start on solo mode will ahve a Ferrari F50. And the purists, who will swoon over 
 the realism. But the thing most people will like aboutt his game is the mess-able ness of it. you 
 can drift, spin, do anything you want and be rewarded. it is truly awesome. Sure, the musics iffy 
 but relax, listen to the engine note and it'll drown out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahnee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Pgr3, while a launch game, is still being played by a lot of people. The tournaments don't stop 
 coming, and the online mode is extremely varied with plenty of modes with plenty of courses. The 
 single played is really a challenge on the harder difficulties and fun on the normal difficulty. 
 Here is an overview of what i think about this game;
  
  gameplay 9:
  
  In the beginning, i thought this game sucked. I put it away after 2 hours of playing. Than i decided 
 to play it again and again, and i kept getting better and better. It's just that, in the beginning, 
 you suck. I am used to arcade racers so i didn't like it at first. Now, that is different. The 
 online is the strongest part of the game. It really uses xbox live to the edge, and has a variety 
 of modes to keep you busy for quiet a while. Kudos are an extremely addictive feature of the game. 
 Kudos are basically style points for your driving manoeuvres like drifting. With Kudos, driving 
 is never the same anymore.
  
  graphics 9:
  
  The game looks fantastic and never has a framerate drop, wich means it stays above 30fps. The car 
 models look beautiful and the environments look extremely detailed. The crowd standing next to 
 the road are even in 3-d and fully animated. But, the game has some graphical issues you'd expect 
 from a console launch game. Like building textures pop-up after the loading screen for 4 seconds, 
 or sometimes while driving. Buildings and certain objects also sometimes pop-up in the far distance, 
 but still hard to notice though. Some car models look sharper than others, and some look ugly from 
 the inside and some actually extremely sharp. Put that aside though, and you have one of the best 
 looking race games ever.
  
  sound: 10
  
  perfect, just perfect. Extremely realistic sound effects, and sounds of the cars them selfs and 
 and ultra varied soundtracks to listen to, makes this a joy to listen to.
  
  value: 9
  
  From tournaments, to online careers, to 50 courses and an extremely long single player if you 
 play it on the harder difficulties make this worth your while, especially that it's 30$ right now. 
 Not to mention the awesome car selection.
  
  tilt: 8
  
  Kudos never get old, but some races and courses look allot like each other.
  Maybe they do look 
 like each other, but that doesn't mean they look bad, no no no, not bad at all. Stays fun and cool. 
 Kinda takes long to begin to like the game
  
  overall: 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: high_flier429
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  if you have a 360, and have a passion for exotic cars, you definatelly need this game. PGR3 was 
 one one of the 3 games i have picked up at launch, and it is the only one of those 3 that i still 
 have. although i did trade up the original for the one that comes with the steering wheel. speaking 
 of which, after trying the wheel on other games such as NFS carbon and Test Drive, i can easily 
 say that PGR3 is the best use of the force feedback. to tell you the truth, being able to drive 
 all of the gorgeous cars in this game with the use of the xbox wheel feels so perfect and realistic, 
 it negates my desire to go out and purchase a ferarri (that is if i sold my house) . the game is 
 stellar in HD especially if you have a decent size tv (30inches or bigger) and it really can give 
 you different handeling feels for each car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CubeJL
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  There aren't many racing games on the 360, so Project Gotham Racing 3 (PGR3) doesn't have to compete 
 with much in the way of standards. However, if you're a racing buff, PGR3 should not leave you 
 disappointed.
  
  The game's graphics are somewhere between excellent and superb -- those gamers who like their racing 
 games to look ultra-realistic may be somewhat distracted by the game's somewhat cartoonish look. 
 That's not to say that PGR3's car models are lacking in detail, but that the game's colors lend 
 themselves to more of a artistic, as opposed to a photorealistic, representation of racing. This 
 is most noticable in the much touted cockpit view where flat textures tend to wash out the otherwise 
 fairly detailed car interiors. Notwithstanding, the game has its fair share of flash: cars have 
 beautifully reflective sufaces, locations sport fairly sophisticated poly-counts, and various things, 
 like headlights and walls, will reflect off of each car's windsheild. Since this isn't a simulation 
 so much as it is an arcade racer, don't expect too much in the way of damage -- that is, damage is 
 sparingly used and doesn't affect gameplay in the least. Incidentally, the roads could use a little 
 more texturing, and the addition of weather effects might have enhanced the game's realism.
  
  Sound-wise, PG3 doesn't disappoint. Each engine has a unique sound, and the selection of in-game 
 music tracks is fairly diverse; jpop, rock, rap, and classical stations are all on hand for your 
 listening pleasure. And, best of all, if you tire of the in-game tracks, feel free to stream your 
 favorite songs right from your ipod via USB 2.0.
  
  Again, PGR3 is not a simulation racer, so the controls are designed to keep players in the race 
 as much as possible. That said, expect things like drifting, e-braking, feint braking, and other 
 over-the-top style racing to have a pretty significant impact on your lap performance. The game's 
 kudos system encourages players to be outlandish, take risks, and be daring. In short, being a 
 conservative driver in PGR3 won't make for a very successful racing career.
  
  Despite its few shortcomings, the game is still a blast to play, especially online. Ranked and 
 non-ranked matches, tournaments, time challenges, eliminations, and watching races as a spectator 
 or all available to suit your mood. Pick up a few friends, break out your favorite car, and have 
 a blast.
  
  PG3, while not perfect, is certainly a solid, if not great, racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cricketboy2238
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a fantastic game, and holds up like a champ against modern Xbox 360 
 games, despite being over a year old at the time of writing. Its presentation and attention to 
 detail is superb, as well as killer audio, and good graphics.
  
  The single player career consists of tournaments, like any well mannered racing game. However, 
 PGR3 mixes things up a big with its Kudos system. Pulling off maneuvers like drafting and power 
 sliding around corners will give you kudos points. Some challenges require that you do drifts to 
 gain Kudos or pass a certain number of opponents in a limited amount of time, rather than 23 tournaments 
 of just street racing. To the non-car-buff, the repetitiveness of games like Gran Turismo can become 
 very tiresome. PGR3s strength is that its very much an arcade game, rather than hardcore simulation.
 
  
  Despite being a launch title, PGR3 has excellent graphics. The race locations are extremely detailed. 
 The cars look great, and have all the dynamic reflections in the world. The game has an at times 
 overactive HDR element to it. Sometimes its just too bright. The graphics engine is not without 
 its flaws. Ive noticed a large amount of jaggies compared to other Xbox 360 games. Its almost 
 as if theres no anti-aliasing at all, despite the GPUs EDRAM daughter die. Also, the nighttime 
 levels dont look particularly spectacular. Some of them look to be only a cut above later Xbox 
 games. Despite, in most situations, the graphics are still quite impressive, which is quite a feat 
 considering its a first generation Xbox 360 game.
  
  Like any racing game, audio is an important element of the games visceral thrill. The cars sound 
 great, the game has decent music, and it all puts on an impressive show when youve got it pounding 
 through 5.1 channels, loud enough to inform your neighbors that you just sideswiped an opponent.
 
  
  The game has excellent multiplayer. Racing games always make for good, quick split-screen matches, 
 which does make an appearance. However, theres a lot more to PGR3s multiplayer, particularly 
 on Xbox Live. Racing against 8 human opponents over Xbox Live makes racing as fun as it has ever 
 been. The huge range of cars and locations makes the game highly varied. Fun cars like the Ariel 
 Atom 3000 Supercar are quite fun, especially when the host locks everyone into using it. There 
 are several game play modes, including cat-and-mouse, which quickly becomes addictive and never 
 really gets boring. It brings a never before seen intensity to driving a car. If online arcade 
 style isnt your thing, thers an online career in which you earn trophies and accumulate Kudos 
 points. Its exactly like the solo career, only its often more challenging and dynamic. PGR3 also 
 features Tournaments, for which you must qualify and go through a series of elimination rounds. 
 The multiplayer has very quickly become my favorite part of the game.
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 features among the best graphics and sound of any Xbox 360 launch title. 
 The single player, with its many game modes and 5 difficulty settings offers a lasting appeal, 
 especially if you want all of your achievement points. The game really makes you work for them. 
 However, once you step into the multiplayer, you really open up what this game is about. For $30, 
 Project Gotham Racing 3 is tough to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I thought this game was gonna be boring and so i had $30 and wanted to buy 
 some cheap game so i decided to give pgr3 a shot. Once i started playing i just didn't want to 
 stop this game is really fun. I've played gran turismo games on ps2 and they're nothing comparing 
 to pgr3. This game is so much better then gran turismo games are. The graphics aren't bad since 
 this game was made when 360 came out. The gameplay like i said is a lot of fun. And the sound of 
 the cars sounds really realistic. I thought this game was going to be bad, but i was wrong this 
 game is fun. So if you have $30 on you and you want to buy a cheap game then i buy pgr 3 you won't 
 regret unless you hate racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper5904
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 4, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  I recently decided to pick up a copy of PGR 3 for the 360. I was slightly disappointed with what 
 I received. The game feels like it's missing something, but I cannot put my finger on it.
  
  Gameplay: Overall, I was pleased with the driving model. The racing mixes arcade style physics 
 with simulation aspects that is friendly to Need For Speed fans yet rewarding enough for the Gran 
 Turismo fans as well. Most of the cars are quite easy to drive but the game also offers expert 
 class vehicles for higher skilled players which generally tend to oversteer more often. This by 
 no means is a realistic game, but it is fun. My only gripe is that the driving model is not complicated 
 enough for me to spend hours trying to exploit the limits of the car.
  
  AI is pretty good too; from what I've seen, they react the way you treat them. So when I was abusing 
 them, they would try to fish tail me in return; likewise when I used cleaner driving techniques 
 they also kept their honour.
  
  The games economic structure is poor at best and feels tacky. Money is plentiful which is good, 
 but lacks reward or personal satisfaction. In short this game is good for players who just want 
 to pick up their favourite car within 2 races without any saving of funds since it's really simple. 
 But back to purchasing vehicles; inarguably clumsy. You basically sort the cars based on their 
 price brackets; given that there are about 4-5 brackets, there are roughly 30 or so cars in each 
 bracket making sorting these long lists is painful.
  
  Graphics: Absolutely gorgeous. Stunning detail to every car as well as their environments, lighting, 
 reflections, motion blur, etc. The game demonstrates the power of the 360. The game further flaunts 
 this with their walk around garages which allow you to peer into all the little details of every 
 car; I'm impressed. The geometry of the vehicles seems pretty accurate but some look a bit off, 
 in general they all look good though.
  
  Sound: Music to the ears? Engine notes are full of character and are pronounced and positioned 
 very well. For example the Aston Martin V8 Vantage sounds very subdued while inside and on bumper 
 views. Once on the third person trailing view you hear the wonderful raspy note of the engine which 
 for any auto enthusiast brings a tear to their eye.
  
  Music, I just switched on my own tunes or turned it off completely to hear the engines.
  
  
 Value: Solo career mode leaves much to be desired; the game is designed to be online and truly 
 benefits when you race online as well as ghosts. The reward and satisfaction is at the end of every 
 race when you see how you rank based on your performance with the rest of the world. You can also 
 purchase new vehicles from the xbox live marketplace which is fine, but most people should find 
 what they are looking for in the standard list. Overall: A definite requirement for any racing 
 fan who owns a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menduco76
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The graphics arent awesome, but the definitely dont disapoint. That actually sums up this game 
 in a nutshell. Its not an unbelieveably great game that will be remembered forever, but for most 
 who bought it (myself included) I definitely wasnt disappointed. On the contrary, I found this 
 game to be very fun. The graphics looked AWESOME at certain points (e. g. the bridges in NYC) especially 
 considering this was a launch title. Though I havent played this game on xbox live for quite a 
 long time, several months ago this was a great game to play online, and I hope it hasnt died out 
 yet because I just might pick it up again. The one problem I have with this game is that some of 
 the achievements are very difficult to get, and i found that completing the game on the hardest 
 level is downright impossible due to a few of the races (try it you will see) . IF you are looking 
 for a racer, definitely get this one. Its cheap now and i doubt you will be disapointed. But expect 
 this game to die out once Forza 2 is released (which should blow it out of the water) , so act fast! 
 haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 (PGR3) is the third installment in the Project Gotham Racing series and 
 the first to merge the online and offline world. It takes the mechanics and kudos system from the 
 two previous games and adds a seamless online gaming experience that takes the game to a new level 
 that challenges casual and experience drivers alike. 
  
  The first two Project Gotham games were popular games that offered many cars and challenges for 
 players. They were games that gave novices a nice easy learning curve, while veteran drivers could 
 skip the easier levels and get right into the heavy duty driving levels. Online was good, but it 
 never really offered a reason to play other than wanting to prove to gamers that you were the best. 
 The third game in the series took this problem and found a way to fix it by making the online component 
 a seamless part of the game. 
  
  Project Gotham is all about driving. You, start the career mode by purchasing a car with your first 
 batch of money and then go out and race an assortment of races. You are tasked with racing road 
 courses, cone challenges, speed challenges and the ever present kudos meter. The smart thing about 
 all these challenges is the difficulty levels that are used. The game caters to all comers. Not 
 very good at racing games... just try another difficulty level. There are five to choose from ranging 
 from the novice level all the way to the platinum level. Playtime is a recreation mode that lets 
 the driver play the game without having to qualify or earn tracks. This becomes the quick mode 
 of playing online and offline. Either way, you always have a way to play no matter what the mood. 
 
  
  The driving challenges themselves are diverse and never feel repetitive. Tracks are laid out in 
 a logical manner and get reconfigured so you never truly memorize any one track. Many times you 
 will race a circuit and expect a turn to go one way but it goes another. Driving skill and not 
 memory become the way to win against the game. Straight up street races take you up against up 
 to eight other competitors. Beating your competition is the way to win these challenges. Cone challenges 
 work like a slalom. Weave your way through the cones while racing the clock. If the clock runs 
 out before you get to the end, you lose. Speed challenges have you weaving through a course working 
 up to a point where you have to hit a certain speed, which can be quite a challenge. Finally are 
 the Kudos challenges which have a clock that counts down to zero, but can be stopped if you put 
 together Kudos combinations. 
  
  If you have not played a Project Gotham game, then you may not be familiar with the Kudos system. 
 It is a rewards system that gives you bonus points each time you pull of a driving maneuver that 
 is considered challenging. Things like drifting, drafting and catching air will garner you Kudos 
 points. Kudos alone do not mean much, but they are a path to advancement in levels. You gain ranks 
 by collecting Kudos. It becomes a personal challenge to try to string Kudos together as the more 
 Kudos moves you put together, the bigger the bonus. 
  
  To drive all these races and collect all these Kudos, you are going to need a car. Project Gotham 
 Racing 3 provides dozens of cars to choose from. Ferraris, Lamborghinis, RUF customized Porsches 
 and others are here for you to buy with your winnings. The cars are intricately detailed not only 
 on the outside, but even the interior driving cockpits work like their real life counterparts. 
 They show off what the graphics engine can do for a great driving simulation. 
  
  Yes, the graphics in this game are fantastic. Cars reflect their environments off of their metallic 
 skin as they fly through their urban cityscapes. Night time driving shows this off in full effect 
 as the neon glow of the city illuminates each cars polished exterior. The tracks that you ride 
 on are finely crafted to the point where you feel you can see the gravel used to pave them. Buildings 
 envelop several of the tracks and almost feel as if they will close in on you at any moment as 
 they block out the sun. Crowds surround each racetrack and can be seen cheering the drivers along. 
 Little touches like side mirrors dangling as you sideswipe a wall are things that show the designers 
 car about the product they are presenting to the players. Graphical immersion is what all of this 
 is trying to convey and it does it in spades. 
  
  Sound is also present and is an integral part of the immersion. From the roar of the engine to 
 the screech of applied braking, you will not find a better use of sound on the 360 at this point 
 in time. Each engine has its own individual sound and no two sounds alike. I got aural feedback 
 from the game each time I took a turn from the howl of the brakes. Sound becomes a factor in your 
 goal to drive the car to the limits of its design by becoming aware of the sounds it makes as you 
 move around the course. Again, you have immersion in the game at its finest. 
  
  Connectivity is the name of the game here. From the opening menu, you realize that you are always 
 in contact with the rest of the Project Gotham Racing 3 world. Gotham TV is the first thing that 
 brings this to the forefront as you can watch racers from the world in a TV like presentation. 
 Tickertape runs at the bottom of the menus showing online players that have reached new levels 
 or hit new records on certain tracks. It is the first game of the 360 generation that starts to 
 hint at the full potential of Xbox Live and total connectivity. 
  
  The game does so much right, but Project Gotham Racing 3 is not without its faults. The most glaring 
 is the online play in career mode. In the Playtime online racing component, there are lobbies and 
 you can continue to race with someone in the same room over and over. When you move to the Career 
 side of online play, there are no lobbies. You join a room and hope that someone shows up before 
 it shuffles you to another room. It just does not make any sense why the career mode would be worse 
 than the non-career mode. Also, the AI will sometimes get a ramming mentality and pile drives the 
 side of your car in a turn. It is really irritating, because it normally happens on the harder 
 modes when you are closer to the competition. 
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 provides the user with a rich driving model and tons of replay ability 
 value. You never run out of things to do and the fact of being connected online to the race community, 
 you always have someone to play against. PGR3 does so much right and offsets its few flaws by giving 
 the users access to cars, tracks and players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  PGR 3 is a street racing game from Bizarre Creations. It was one of the Xbox 360's best launch 
 title and was an impresive showcase for what the Xbox 360 can do. To start PGR 3 is a street racing 
 game but it is not street racing like Need For Speed where you can tune your car or be gangsta, 
 PGR 3 is all about competitive racing.
  
  The game takes place in 4 different cities London, New York, Tokyo, Las Vegas and the only location 
 which isn't a city, the Nurbergring ring. There are hundreds of different variations of these tracks 
 throughout the single player and you also get the option to create your own which allows you to 
 make millions of variations. The racing in the game feels a lot like a racing simulator like Forza 
 or Gran Turismo but the game has a very fast paced feel to it making it more fun as you may seem. 
 The ability to gain Kudos as you play each race makes the game feel very arcade like. You gain 
 Kudos from pulling of cool racing maneuvers for example drifting round corners or slipstreaming 
 behind someone. As you complete events you can see your Kudos rank against the world and unlock 
 new ranks which unlock hidden extras. There are a few different types of events in PGR 3, the first 
 of which are racing events, these are Standard race and Elimination, then there are then Kudos 
 events like driving through cones to earn Kudos or drifting to get a certain amount of Kudos and 
 lastly timed events such as finish one lap before the timer runs out. The events are essentially 
 just variations of what you have seen before. The single player mode is very long and you have 
 the option to complete each race with 5 different difficulty settings which is great because there 
 is a difficulty for every skill level.
  
  The graphics in PGR 3 are superb and really show of what the Xbox 360 can do. There is so much 
 detail in the accurately modeled cities and the cars that the game feels very much like an experiance. 
 There are some great camera views for when your driving and the best of which is the in car view, 
 this camera view actually makes you feel like you are driving the car and the way dust catches 
 on the screen and you can look into the rear view mirror just shows how much detail they have put 
 into the game. Everything to the speedometer is accurately modeled to each car. There are over 
 80 cars in the game and none of them are slow, although some are slower than others. The game has 
 some really cool motion blur effects, which really make you feel like you are driving at 200 mph 
 adding to the intesity of the game.
  
  The sound in PGR 3 leaves more to be desired. Although the engine noises are fantastic, the music 
 in the game has too much variety, it seems the designers wanted to have music for everyone but 
 it doesnt really work. There are so many different genres that it is really hard to find something 
 you like and most of the music doesnt suit the game at all. I don't think many people want to be 
 racing down New York at 200mph listening to Beethoven. For everyhting else the game has, it just 
 doesnt work.
  
  The multiplayer aspect of PGR 3 is great. There are some really cool online modes like Cat &amp; 
 Mouse where one person in each team drives an E class vehicle and the other players have to push 
 them to the finish line in A class cars. The onine is very fast paced and very competitive, with 
 a ton of options allowing to make the most challenging race you can. Gotham TV is a new addition 
 to the online aspect, it allows people to watch the best players as well as their friends almost 
 like watching a sports channel.
  
  Overall PGR 3 is a great racing game. It allows anyone to dive into some of the coolest cars and 
 race in fun competitive races. If your a fan of racing games and you havent already checked this 
 out i strongly suggest you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matskii
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Yes I know it's been out for nearly a year now. But the one thing you need to ask is, in this year 
 what else has come close if not better, personally I have always perferred driving sims, for example: 
 forza motorsport , Gran torismo but when PGR came out I was impressed with how Bizarre Creations 
 came up with the concept of kudos, the scoring system that scores you points on so called style 
 moves that cleverly takes you away from the first impression that PGR is not a simulation but more 
 a stylish acade racer...!!!!! It always looked good as the X BOX was the more powerful machine 
 compared to other consoles but the visuals in PGR3 are as you would expect amazing the in car view 
 is the most realistic and intense experience on a driving game (top marks) the music is quite colourful 
 too good mix of tunes, the car modeling is as you would come to expect nowadays great . I will give 
 full marks on presentation and overall game development especially as this was a launch title. 
 Think what PGR 4 will look like????? but for me I just would like a more real experience, more 
 of a driving sim than a racer to match the intense in car view but hey there are alot of people 
 who think sims are boring each too there own. I still play this game now lol hurry up with forza 
 2 ............!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterchestnut
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  While it looks good, and it's fun to race high-powered cars, the career mode is very linear and 
 doesn't provide enough substance to maintain interest. Possibly the online mode is the focus of 
 this game, but sequential trophy/kudos level system became boring after I was able to purchase 
 the best cars after the first few races. The physics are still typical PGR style where rubber has 
 too high of a friction coefficient, and there is no back weight on the vehicle. You feel more like 
 a hovercraft dot in 3D space flying along the road more than how a car should feel - like a sled 
 on wheels. Vibration feedback is not the best. Graphics are very clean. Curves are finely meshed. 
 The garage views of the cars is better than in Test Drive Unlimited, which showed the sub-lines 
 of curves much more. No major sprite errors during gameplay, but during loading you can see the 
 layers (water first, then road, then barriers, then buildings) loading as the camera spins around 
 the car. Also, loading time is pretty bad. Especially noticeable during event restarts.
  
  Annoying pop-up for next song keeps coming up even after turning off the music. Gets in the way 
 of the tach. I don't understand why they got rid of 4-player on the same system. I am a HUGE fan 
 of social gaming in the same room with friends and that the new wave of games is forcing users 
 to play via Live, is very disturbing. Repetitive nature of events, lack of consistency in tracks, 
 and lack of more races with other cars is a downfall of the career mode.
  
  It's an arcade game, not a driving simulation, that lost the 4-player feature in favor of forcing 
 Live onto the users and made the career mode too simple and linear to be worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffgothic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the third in one of Microsoft's acclaimed racing franchises. Personally 
 this is the first Project Gotham game I've played and I must say, next-gen racing look and play 
 great!
  
  Gameplay-
  PGR3 has an abundance of gameplay features. Racing in this game is very realistic, stylish and 
 rewarding. Of course the Kudos points system makes a return to the series, which rewards you skill 
 and money points/bonuses for cool and stylish things you do in a race. For example if you perform 
 great drift motions on big turns on the track, your Kudos points will rise substantially. All of 
 the great tricks and wins you accumulate are easily tracked and recorded to your profile seamlessly. 
 There are over 80 sexy, speed demons in the game, which is a pretty good number of cars adding 
 for a little more variety. There are many different types of races in PGR3, from normal street 
 races to a mode where you have to beat the speed of the camera following your car! The control 
 scheme of the game is easy to get used to after several thorough play-throughs, and it feels comfortable 
 as you keep playing races. Overall the gameplay in PGR3 is great. Doesn't quite accomplish mass 
 innovation, but still great and pure fun! 8/10
  
  Graphics-
  If you could describe PGR3's graphical prowess in one word... fantastic! The car models are damn 
 near life-like. The shading and lighting is top notch. The tracks look incredible! You race in 
 city's like London, Las Vegas, New York, and Tokyo and they exactly like their real life counter-parts! 
 In one race I was racing across the Brooklyn bridge in New York. I live in New York and cross that 
 bridge often and it was a blast to see it in a game! In another instance, it looks amazing when 
 you drive from the first-person view! There's so much detail in the graphics. 9/10
  
  Sound-
  PGR3 exceeds in sound! Everything sounds real! From the engines humming, to crashing 
 into a barrier, to rubber burning! The soundtrack tries to appeal to every genre, and it's pretty 
 good. Yet I personally can't say much because I was playing music from the 360's hardrive while 
 playing the game, lol. 10/10
  
  Value-
  It's racing game... on the Xbox 360. Xbox Live should come to mind instantly! That is where this 
 games attains plenty of replay value. Racing online with friends and others offers plenty of fun 
 for days to come. The online mode in PGR3 is great. Additionally, you can race offline, build custom 
 tracks, take amazing photos, etc. There's plenty of content here to keep you coming back for more! 
 9/10
  
  The Good, Bad and really Ugly!
  PGR3 is a damn near perfect racing game that anyone can indulge into. Wonderful graphics, fun gameplay, 
 plenty of replay value, it don't get much better. What PGR3 loses taste in is in-game advertising. 
 There's ads you'll see in the environments from Samsung to Mcdonalds. There's too much ads from 
 too many companies in this game. That's pretty much the only real drawback. It does get annoying 
 seeing so many of those ads...
  
  In conclusion PGR3 is great game. It can get real intense and addicting at times. You'll probably 
 be playing this for hours on end until the next installment in the series!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dog64
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing games have been really known for one thing: Kudos. Sure enough, they make 
 a return in PGR3 that has many new features, updated graphics that show off the Xbox 360, and great 
 online play.
  
  The game starts by giving you 85,000 credits, which is the games currency. Instead of just winning 
 cars, you actually buy them. Credits are very easy to get though, so you won't have to save up very 
 much. Anyway, you are given a few choices of cars to choose from that cost 85,000 credits or less. 
 These cars are much slower than the more expensive cars, but you'll get those more expensive cars 
 in no time. The game gives you many details about each car including year, engine power, top speed, a 
 description of the car itself, and much more. The car you choose gets put into your virtual garage, which 
 you can actually walk around in and view all your cars from all angles.
  
  A big highlight from the other Project Gotham racing games is that you can view the inside of your 
 car. Each cars interior is exactly matched up with the real life car, and all the side mirrors and 
 rear view mirrors really work. You can also look around your car using the right stick, which you 
 can use to look out the side windows. The cars dash is also modeled to the real car. The speedometer 
 and RPM gauge work, but analog speedometers seem to be off the actual speed. Your HUD may say that 
 you're going 100 mph, but your dash speedometer says you're going over 150 mph. It's not accurate, but 
 it's no big deal.
  
  In the main mode of PGR3, you choose from a series of championships where you race courses in serveral 
 cities including London, New York, and others. Each race you do has a certain goal you must meet 
 in order to pass. Some goals include getting a certain amount of kudos, while others include passing 
 a certain number of cars or finishing a race in a certain position. Before each race, you choose 
 a difficulty setting. These range from novice to very difficult. The harder level you choose, the 
 more credits you win. But, I found if very easy to get money by choosing the easy setting. I still 
 had multi-thousands of credits in a matter of minutes.
  
  The graphics in PGR3 are superb, especially if you have an HDTV. While 1080p is best, as they say, the 
 graphics look stunning even if you play it in 720p. I noticed no framerate drops at all, even when 
 going very fast. The cities look real and colorful, and the cars look sweet too. Cars also reflect 
 light off them. The cars don't take much damage. The only damage you see in smashed mirrors and 
 maybe a loose hood. The music in the game is not my type, so I use the custom soundtrack. The cars 
 all make good sound effects, but they're pretty much the same as other games. The typical screeching 
 tires and the typical noise that's heard when you hit a wall is also present here. All car engines 
 do make different noises, however.
  
  Finally, the online mode is very interesting as well. You have an online rank, which starts you out 
 as a newcomer. As you race, and win races, you rank climbs and so does your skill. You have your 
 typical players who like to try to slam into you and mess you up, but if you are an experienced 
 driver this won't bother you. There's also Gotham TV. This feature allows you to watch other pro 
 race drivers from where ever race against others. You can even view and look around the inside 
 of their car. While you probably won't use this feature very often, it's still fun to kick back 
 and watch other real-life racers put the petal to the metal once in a while.
  
  Overall, PGR3 is a great racing game and fans of the previous Project Gotham games will really enjoy 
 the new features here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChixuNL
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  This game is really amazing, but it feels unfinished.
  I liked PGR 2 more, more challenge, more playing hours.
  Single player is quite easy, if you 
 are a decent racer, you complete it in no time.
  
  Multi-player is very nice, but it's hard to find good opponents, because they are or far too bad 
 or too good.
  It's worth the money, but Bizarre could made it longer. I hope this comes back in PGR 4.
  
 
  Graphics are really amazing with a good tv, Gameplay is quite different then PGR 2, nice sound 
 very realistic. The value is good. Tilt is quite high, but that is my opinion as a big racing fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AvengerAaron666
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this game for the fact that people talk so highly about the series, my mates advised 
 me to buy this game because its amazing but to be honest i cant really see whats so amazing about 
 it, its far too easy to win the best cars, and most of the game modes such as the cones challenges 
 are just plain repetitive and boring, the races are excellent thought but there arent enough in 
 my opinion.
  
  The graphics arent bad, but i wouldnt say they are particularly any better than Gran Turismo 4 
 for the PS2.
  
  So to sum up its an addictive game with some nice graphics and nice cars but its too easy and repetitive.
 
  
  Cheers, AvengerAaron 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  The Good: Solid visuals, realistic physics, tons of tracks in a variety of cities, plenty of online 
 racing modes, Kudos.
  
  The Bad: Hard to earn achievements, no damage to vehicles, single player is much harder than you'd 
 think.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Project Gotham Racing was an Xbox launch title who's goal was to dethrone Gran Turismo from it's 
 seat of power regarding realistic driving sims. PGR3 was an Xbox 360 launch title that turned out 
 to be very well done, but not quite perfect. For starters, PGR3 get's the racing simulator part 
 right. It features tons of licenced, real world cars as well as tracks set in real world cities. 
 The collision detection is very good as well as the control mechanics, which makes controling the 
 car feel realistic, but cars take no damage, which lowers that grade just a bit. One feature that 
 makes PGR3 feel like it's part racing sim, part arcade racer is the inclusion of Kudos. You gain 
 Kudos for driving wrecklessly. Doing things like drifting, passing cars quickly and getting close 
 to but not touching a wall can gain you Kudos, which are needed to complete certain races in the 
 single player mode.
  
  In the single player mode of PGR3, you select a basic car, then race through a series of tournaments. 
 The more races you win, the more Kudos you get and the more cars you can buy to race in new tournaments. 
 It's very simple, yet in many ways unexciting. The graphics of PGR3 are superb, it clearly shows 
 off what the 360 is capable of, along with the style and poise of the cars featured in the game. 
 The sound effects are also outstanding, featuring realistic sounds recorded from each of the cars 
 included in the game. PGR3 also features several online racing modes where you can challenge your 
 friends to see who's the best driver. Overall, PGR3 is recomendable for those looking for a solid, 
 more realistic racing game for the Xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay: Solid racing mechanics and licenced cars help PGR3 feel like a racing sim, with Kudos 
 helping to make it feel more arcady.
  
  Graphics: This was the best looking launch title from Microsoft and still looks great today.
 
  
  Sound: Outstanding use of sound effects to make the cars sound very realistic.
  
  Value: This game can be discovered for under $20, so look out for it.
  
  Final Thoughts: Start 
 your engines... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok, right off... this is not Project Gotham 2 the remake. This is a totaly new game, and it's clear 
 right from the start. First, yes, the graphics are amazing. Hop inside one of these cars and it 
 feels like you're in the mix, racing for real. I think they did a great job revamping the kudos 
 system and gave the gameplay a much deeper sense of realism. The tracks are gorgeous and the challenges 
 excellent. But... and I don't think I'm alone on this... what happened to the slower cars??? Ok, 
 sure, we all want to go fast, but come on... who didn't like taking the Ford Focus out for a run, 
 or the Mini? No car's top speed is under 170 mph, and if you aren't good with managing the gas, 
 it's sit and spin time. I found it frustrating in the higher levels once I earned enough to buy 
 faster cars because the torque is so high, you lose control right off if you're not careful. Still, 
 that's not so much a complaint of the game because I really love it! It's just that I miss the 
 sheer volume of variety in PGR2. Here's hoping in PGR4 they decide to throw us a few slower cars 
 for some added fun. Not all of us want to pull G-forces when we race. Either way, this is a must-have 
 racer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haeden_Boy6
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game 
 is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great!
  The Game is Great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfreak1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 4, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Fast, difficult, and pretty are few words that can describe Project Gotham Racing for the Xbox 
 360. If you are looking for a simple arcade racer or something like need for speed, or dare i say 
 import tuner challenge PGR is truly something different. It requires skill and patience. PGR gives 
 you a great selection of cars to play w/ in quick race but career mode you are going to have to 
 earn your cash. Cash comes suprisingly quick in this game thanks to kudos. In about an hour or 
 2 you can already afford a car in the 7hundred thousands. The grapics in this game are beautiful 
 with nice lighting and relfections possible. The buildings will glimer of your cars nicely and 
 the game runs real smoothe too. The sounds of cars reving their engins and the screaming crowd 
 are only some of the great effects you will hear. And the sound track goes from hip-hop to classical.... 
 but if you dont like it you can load up your own tracks w/ your mp3 player. There are hundreds 
 of tracks to race in places like japan, england, new york, and las vegas. Really theres a lot to 
 do and if you want you can save previous races and watch them later. PGR is a great racing sim 
 and if you love racing games you owe it to your self to own this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imhotepp
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  I am not a fan of racing games for some reason. My all time fav is MotoGP series for the Xbox and 
 X 3 6. My homeboy picked up his X 3 6 a short time ago and told me to pick PGR3 up. I did and let 
 me just say I have had a lot of fun playing this game. Fast, fun, intense and challenging. I never 
 got that feeling with other racing games. My thumb was sore and my trigger finger achy from playing 
 so hard on the controller because of the cat&amp; mouse game that you can go online. I really don't 
 see any issue with it other than the fact that eveon though some cars look great, I thought they 
 could look a little more photogenic . The cars look great but I was expecting more. Paint a car 
 would have been my most fav option if it was included which it was not. But I will rate this game 
 on the intentsity of online play and pure fun that I had in the career mode . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is pretty much Microsoft's equivalent of Gran Turismo, but what you get 
 with PGR feels much more in depth than GT. The car handling for a start is much more responsive 
 and varies greatly between cars, showing that Bizarre Creations have put in a lot of attention 
 to detail. The same can be said for car sounds which have been very accurately replicated in the 
 game for each individual vehicle. The circuits and gameplay modes are also large enough in number 
 and in their differences to put GT to shame.
  
  The visuals in PGR3 are up there with the best of them on the 360, despite the game coming out 
 at launch. Car textures reflect their environments brilliantly and also crumple very realistically 
 when accidents occur. However, you could certainly argue that the graphics are a bit TOO shiny 
 in many places and this can detract from what is otherwise a very realistic looking game.
  
  Online the game has all the gameplay features you would expect from a modern racing game, but 
 also adds in the Gotham TV mode. While this is quite trivial its still interesting to watch the 
 best guys in the world do their thing.
  
  Achievement points are also used well in the game, encouraging you to go back and finish everything 
 off as well as get involved in the Xbox Live community.
  
  All this said though, for me, PGR3 falls behinf the top driving game currently out there, Test 
 Drive Unlimited. TDU's driving engine is more refined, more like real driving. The graphics are 
 also slighty better as well and there's a greater sense of community online.
  
  Overall though, PGR3 is a solid racing game and I reccommend you get your hands on it in the January 
 sales if its not already in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parshanb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game especially for the PGR fans. The graphics are top-notch and the sound 
 is pretty cool.
  
  The gameplay is realistic, but not that easy. People who have only played Ridge Racer series or 
 the Need For Speed series , would not find this game a lot of fun, but and PGR, Gran Turismo , 
 Forza ,or gamers that like simulation racing, wont be dissapointed.
  
  The multiplayer is a lot of fun and addicting, but som of the gameplay doesnt feel right., but 
 still doesnt want you to not touch the game anymore. PGR fans would have fun from the start since 
 the gameplay is about the same as PGR2 and graphics are amazing
  
  Overall this is a great racing game for people to own for their 360's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that i played Project Gotham Racing 2 on the Xbox and thought it was pretty 
 ace, and so PGR 3 seemed like a safe bet to get with my 360. For the most part, I was right. PGR 
 3 is a fun, challenging and lengthy arcade/sim racer. The graphics are quite lovely, although not 
 too impressive up close (needs some anti aliasing, for sure) . The cities you drive in look fantastic, 
 and the bloom effects, although slightly overused, are nice too. There is a nice selection of cars 
 on offer, from Ferrari's to Lambo's. Unfortunately there isnt any everyday cars to drive around, 
 unlike its predecessor, so your'e constantly driving in incredibly powerful, exotic automobiles. 
 You may think 'Yeah, so what?' but I personally enjoy starting off with a quite frankly crap car 
 and earning myself something truely awesome as i finish championships. However, collecting the 
 200 or so cars is good fun and will last you quite a while. The races themselves are stylish and 
 intense. It took me a while to get used to the whole 'kudos' style of driving (powerslides at 150 
 mph) but pulling it off perfectley is incredibly satisfying. There are 23 championships to be getting 
 on with, most of them containing on average 4 races. This is actually quite short when playing, 
 but completing them all on Platinum difficulty will take you a very long time and massive dedication 
 as it is geniunely hard. The online aspect of PGR 3 is impressive, with an online career to get 
 on with, and a Trueskill ranking. There are tournaments to qualify for (good **** luck) and lots 
 of features like Gotham TV that you can get featured on if you race particularly well. Of all the 
 stuff that PGR 3 does well, it still has certain aspects that need improvement. The menu is most 
 certainly one of them. Its annoyingly awkward and slow, and selecting different cars and garages 
 is an unnecesary burden. Also, as i mentioned before, the graphics are a little bit messy occasionally 
 with some of the cars looking quite ugly. Also, if your'e looking for Gran Turismo on the 360, 
 dont get your hopes high. This game is more about style and grace, which is good but it will never 
 touch on GT's magic... ever. So, to sum up, PGR 3 is a great little racer worth your time and money 
 aslong as you your hopes arent too high and you dont mind some of its rough edges.
  
  The Good - Graphics are mostly good - Lots of cars - Lots of tracks - Mutliplayer is expansive
 
  
  The Bad - Dodgiest menu's the world has ever seen - Platinum is a little too insane - It's no Gran 
 Turismo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjserkland
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  This is a must for any fan of racing games. Hands down the most complete and satisfying racing 
 title on any console. The graphics are awesome and cars awfully pretty, so much so, it is a pleasure 
 to just walk around your garages and admire the cars you have bought through out the game. There 
 are enough difficulty settings to choose from so as to find the best and most fun challenge for 
 you. Oh, and the sound; so sweet it is. Never mind all that though. The real game is on-line. That 
 is where the gaming memories will come from. At this date it may be hard to find online games that 
 match your criteria, but if you look hard enough you can find a few gamers looking for the same 
 thrills as you, and meet up every so often for high speed thrills. As a racing game fan I highly 
 recommend this title even with the mileage already on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barksim
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  This is my first Xbox 360 game, and it is one of the most awesome racing games I have played in 
 a long while. The graphics are awesome, and the game works very well.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  This game plays well, with each car handling differently, with some being capable of easily 
 drifting throught turns, and others needing special care in the turns so they don't spin out. Another 
 cool thing is the ability to drive your cars from the driver's perspective in the car's driver 
 seat. Add in manual transmission, and you have a realistic driving experience all bundled into 
 an Xbox disc. The only things I have a problem with are the fact that you've got a car and you 
 can't do much to make it your own. They can't be suped-up, or modified. You can barely change the 
 color, with many cars having only one or two options for color. Apart from that problem, it is 
 one of the coolest racing games ever made.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Wow is definitely the word that comes to mind the first time you race through the very realistic 
 streets of New York, or speed down the Vegas strip. The attention to detail is amazing, the people 
 actually look like people, to the point that they even react somewhat realistically when you hit 
 a guardrail in front of them. All the buildings look real, and the cars, too. These are the best 
 game graphics I have ever seen! Except for one detail: There is no car damage during a race, apart 
 from the slight dings and cracks you can see from the in-car perspective.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound is very good, with the engines sounding really good, and the sounds fit in perfectly 
 with what's going on and where you are driving. The music is okay, with some of the songs getting 
 fairly annoying after a while, but that is the only problem.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  When you get this game, you definitely get your money's worth out of it, from start to finish, 
 though it would still be better if it were cheaper.
  
  Rent or buy: Buy, definitely.
  
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbwarrior
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I got the original XBOX WHEN IT FIRST CAME OUT AND PGR1 and it was sooooo much fun but this game 
 doesn't have that much depth and the controls are soo hard to do you have to lik brake at every 
 corner to slow down ans it is kinda frustrating I played lik 2 or 3 times never 2 take it out again 
 all in all I think you are better off with pgr1 or 2 Pgr3 is a pretty good game IF you can you 
 are a very very hardcore racer fan got the original XBOX WHEN IT FIRST CAME OUT AND PGR1 and it 
 was sooooo much fun but this game doesn't have that much depth and the controls are soo hard to 
 do you have to lik brake at every corner to slow down ans it is kinda frustrating I played lik 
 2 or 3 times never 2 take it out again all in all I think you are better off with pgr1 or 2 Pgr3 
 is a pretty good game IF you can you are a very very hardcore racer fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAdam
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  I got this on xmas and at first i was not as pleased as i thought i would be, bit slugish harder 
 to get into. Dint really find my self wanting to play on and get intrested, no involvement ... 
 at first.
  
  Then i hooked up my xbox live !
  
  Online it is immence fun and enjoyable, not online to win at all, online to have a laugh. Super 
 fun the people who play (well 99% of) are sound and funny people too. Once a good play and youll 
 soon find your self gettin involved and playing it alot more than you thought you would. Worth 
 the money, espesh now its faily cheap but i recoment you get xbox live with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom_marcus94
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  pg3 is a very good game the graphics are very good als the cars it looks so real the music is good 
 is very chaLlenging i have played this game for a good time i am a professional i recommend this 
 game .is better than the first project GOTHAM racing. They do a good job with the garages and the 
 cars the music is pretty good they chose good songs the value is very cheap because at this price 
 almost everybody can buy it the only thing that i dont like from the game is that you cant customize 
 your cars of all the racing games that i have played this is the only one that you cant customize 
 the cars i hope that if they create a PGR4 i hope you can customize like buy new engines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Project gotham racing 3 is easily a lot better than the other two project gotham racing games for 
 xbox. Its not only better because of the improved graphics, but because its got a whole different 
 style of racing and menus and everything. For example, you choose championships which can have 
 a few in each. You get CR which is pretty much money to buy new cars. Which i think is a better 
 style than the others. There are only about 80 cars, which is a lot but a little less than the 
 others. If you love racing game. This is an inexpensive, and really fun game that any racing game 
 lover should definetly get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is very HOT its fast and cool keeps you wanting to play more and more which is good for 
 a game of its type. The game play is nice and the graphics are you have to see to believe, the 
 game offers good achivment points and nice cars. THERE is ONE Horrible mistake its just TOO short 
 which in my opinion is not that great. The game is as good as it lasts because when your done you 
 will be begging mom, dad or girlfriend to go to EB games or Gamestop and get you a new game. At 
 last the gameplay solid and so are the graphics but the lasting of the game yikes anyways i am 
 out. An Iman Original 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jai_hawk
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  This is the first game I have played where I was not getting bored with the cars I drove. They 
 were all fast and looked beautiful! Every single car in the game can hit 180 M/PH, which really 
 is more fun then driving a boring little car that can barely hit 100 M/PH. And there are so many 
 races and events, that I never get bored of the game, I was always driving in somewhere different, 
 whether it was Tokyo, or New York, or even Las Vegas. This game takes me many exciting places. 
 And the multi-player is also pretty sweet, the opportunity to change from racing to a CatnMouse 
 event or collect-the-cones can also take the boredom of going lap over lap of racing, or if I really 
 like doing racing, you can do point to point, or just original track races. Lots of choices, lots 
 of fun! And also something sweet in this game is the track builders; there are hundreds of thousands 
 different combinations of races for me to race on, it are pretty fun.
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics in this game are awesome! All the buildings inside New York and all the beautiful 
 shiny casinos in Las Vegas are all brought to life beautifully in this game. They look spectacular. 
 Also all the cars looks so realistic, and the water and oceans look so beautiful in this game. 
 And the lights were very good, how they reflected off the cars paint job, or how the lights lit 
 up the dark spots in the road, and the shadow effects look all very good! I have to say though, 
 not much damage shows when I hit walls, but still looks pretty good. And the new feature of the 
 driving view where I could sit inside the car looks and feels so much more real, and it shows all 
 the mirrors and the interior and the steering wheel. It all looks so good.
  SOUND:
  All the cars in the game sound like the real thing, whether I was revving my engine or driving 
 at 200 M/PH, it all sounded so real. The screeching of the tires when I slid around the corner 
 sounded so real also and hard braking. It all made me feel like I was really racing with other 
 exotic sports cars.
  VALUE:
  This game is worth every cent, the online play is awesome and so is the career mode. It's a must 
 have! I give this game a 9/10. Nice work Bizarre, keep 'em coming. Project Gotham Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360_4_lyf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  yes ive had this game for a while and i play online and do alsorts of bits and things with it and 
 after a while i thought to my self yes . this game is amazin i thought thsu cuz ive been plating 
 this game for bout 4 months and i still ents bored usally i will be bored of a racing gamje in 
 a month or 2 but no thsi game blew my head there only some difficulties witch i enjoy is challange 
 mode that is bare hard lol ... nevermind to see more info bout it just post message me on xbox360_4_lyf 
 thanks allso check out my account home pages its got some news and more coming soo in january and 
 after christmas bye and thanks u for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golasta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  When I bought this I had mixed thoughts. At first I hated it but the more I persisted with it the 
 more amazing it got. Although if you want a good game with good graphics/gameplay/excellent sound 
 this is the place to go on the xbox 360.
  
  Believe me if you don't like it at first, leave it for about half an hour and play it again. All 
 the first opinions will instantly good. I'll be honest the menu is as bad as it gets. But the city 
 suroundings like the london eye and big ben or just supreme.
  
  If you want to get the most out of project gotham 3 buy the steeringt wheel because it does wear 
 thin with the controllern although the steering wheel makes the gameplay revoloutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kb8wsf
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This game has some very good tracks, and the cars are great. The realism is very good too. The 
 game play is also very good. With the online play if you like racing game you cannot get enough 
 because there is always a different challenger out there to give you the race that you need. If 
 you know racing type game you soundn't have a very long time learning to play the game. If you 
 a newcome this could be alitlle challenging at first but it's not something you couldn't overcome 
 in a few hours. I say again great game for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_zargon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  The first thing that hits you about the game are the graphics. They are simply stunning, even on 
 a SDTV they look simply fantastic. It really makes you wonder in awe what the 360 will have done 
 by the end of this gen. I played the original on the Xbox, but in PGR3 the detail of the environments 
 as well as the cars themselves is just incredible. However graphics aren't always everything, but 
 this game backs style up with plenty of hard quality substance as well. Cars handle very well with 
 skids and other skills being awarded through the Kudos system used in all the other PGR games. 
 There is a massive selection of cars available and a excellent online system over Xbox Live to 
 back up the game once you have mastered all those medals. That's no small feat, you will certainly 
 be at it for a mighty long time if you want to reap the serious rewards. But some bragging rights!
 
  
  Overall PGR3 is a very well thought-out and cleverly designed game which will provide the best 
 racing experience on the 360 by far. A cracking package title and a must-have for all 360 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Forget Need for speed and any other racer for the 360. Project Gotham Racing is the game to get. 
 It is one of the most realistic car games I have played on in a long time. You need to be good 
 at using brakes and the accelerator to use this game. It isnt like need for speed where its unrealistic 
 game play spoils it with not enough use of the brakes. The game has had a lot of detail put into 
 it. The challenges and races are challenging and fun. The range of cars puts this game up another 
 level. There are so many cars I dont no all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XRacer06
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Because its next gen this game has amazing graphics! Many people may look at this game and say 
 its just your everyday racer but whith pretty graphics. But its not. The carlist is freaking sweet. 
 Im personaly a honda fan so my favorite car in the game is the NSX GT2. The carlist is mostly high 
 end cars. But the list spreads from ford to farrari t honda to porsche to noble to lamborghini. 
 The carlist is great. The tracks are rich whith realism and are all challenging in there own unique 
 way. The phisics let you drive the way you want. Drift, Grip, Or just act retarded. The physics 
 are highly realistic. The online play is great too letting you race a good load of your friends. 
 So if you have an XBOX 360 and you want a great racer, this is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SergantCross
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  the good thing: All features and unlockables are more featuring than the 2 project gotham games 
 in xbox, real simulation looks priceless than gran turismo.
  
  the bad thing: it is almost short for the carrer, some clubs are a little short to handle.
  
 
  Gameplay: Well i don't usually play carrer modes but i play single player game modes but actually 
 it is kinda the best gameplay, it might have good taste but online will be better than offline 
 modes.
  
  Graphics: kinda solid and the same as gran turismo 3 graphics but real damage can be more assisstance 
 from the forza team..
  
  Sound: The sound is really excellent and i find instead of cars going rrraaaaaa rrroooooaaaaarrrr 
 all the time so honestly i think if you need a car with real sound effects, buy a car that can 
 put in some best sound effects.
  
  Value: I believe the values were mixed since i played this game at the virgin megastore and when 
 my friend had this game, i came to his house and i had to follow his instructions how to play the 
 game and i noticed the controllers was my biggest problem.
  
  Tilt: I say this game is fun, plain, classic, simulated and real grapical issues borught to the 
 competition.
  
  My first 360 review is done, feel free to see what my firend has some cool games by PMing me.
 
  
  SergantCross 
::::::

::::::
UserName: him101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  One of the first games to be put out by Microsoft, PGR3 has made the 360 proud because this is 
 a very good and enjoyable racing game, for the fans of the series or those who just like to race 
 in licensed sport cars.
  
  There are many features to what make this game so good and they are:
  
  Xbox Live (Which is 
 probably the best part about the game)
  Gotham Carear Mode (Where you compete in numerous events to earn medals and trophies)
  Gotham 
 TV (A great feature for Xbox Live where you can wach your friends race)
  Play Time Mode (Where you can do any type of race, create your own track from one of the cities)
 
  
  Believe me there does not seem like much but this game will keep you pretty busy for the next couple 
 of months.
  
  The graphics are great too as speed down a freeway or skid around the corners and the scenary of 
 the cities is pretty amazing too. But the sound is better because you can hear your car reving 
 up at the start line and when it skids around the corners, Bizarre Creations have really done great 
 job in doing that. The soundtrack for my liking is not that good though, I just use my own music 
 what I have uploaded to my hard drive.
  
  So, in my opinion I would encourage you to buy this game as it a pretty awesome one to own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Following the lineage of the PGR series and even going back as far as MSR on the Dreamcast it is 
 plainly obvious to see how much it has evolved over the years. With the 4th iteration of the series 
 it is plain to see that the developers have kept a close eye on what needed to be changed and what 
 needed tweaking.
  
  The first and most significant change this time around is the inclusion of credits for purchasing 
 your cars, in all previous versions they were unlocked with the Kudos system which worked well 
 but I personally prefer the new system as you dont have to do the old kudos grind to get to the 
 next car you want. With that said the kudos still play a massive role in the game, they are earned 
 the same way as always by driving with style, be that drifting around corners pulling 360's in 
 the middle of a race or just simply running a section of the track cleanly with no small bumps 
 or shunts. The kudos rack up real fast in PGR3 unlike 2, and they unlock Ranks which in tuen unlock 
 new concept cars for you to purchase but this is optional and no longer has any effect of your 
 career path.
  
  The visuals in PGR3 are to put it in a single word, stunning. The depth of scope in the visuals 
 alone will keep you glued to your 360 for a good while, from the detail of the environments down 
 to the reflections glinting off the wheel rims there is nothing in this game that looks out of 
 place or inh any way poor.
  
  The audio is just as crisp with a huge array of music to listen to as you tare through the city 
 streets. Add onto that the accurately modeled engine sounds and ambient effects and it is a marvel 
 to hear equally on par with the visuals if not even better.
  
  Online over XBL this game has tons of replay value and more importantly tons of people to challenge 
 90% of the time. There is an online ranking / career system which is fun to challenge your way 
 up to be the worlds #1 racer.
  
  If I do have one gripe about the PGR3 it is just that the single player portion of the game is 
 much shorter than every version before it and you can easily complete it in 6 hours or so if you 
 are determined enough. Even so when all is said and done this is a fantastic game and everyone 
 who considers them a racing fan in any form should not miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cedmln
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Well, lets start with the good and the bad, and then the tilt.
  
  The good:
  
  Graphics, sound, online play, and thats about it as there not much to this game. The game features 
 very basic elements of a racing game and does them well. The best part of the game is to play with 
 others online as playing with other real people is a very satisfying experience.
  
  The bad:
  
  This game is not bad, but the game as a racer is too simple and barely has substance 
 in its gameplay. The game is a mix or arcade and simulator, but doesn't contain enough of the arcadish 
 elements. The series is based around earning Kudos (or points) , but in the single player mode, 
 when earning those kudos during races, you will be the only one trying to earn them, as the computer 
 oponents just race carefully with no attempt at making you feel as if you are fighting for a real 
 purpose in the race beside finishing first place. This leaves the gameplay feeling almost empty 
 with only little purpose besides finishing in first place. The single player modes also includes 
 modes where you do not race, which will have you doing tasks by yourself (for the most part) just 
 so you can unlock the next set of races. These mode are not fun in a long run. The worst mode are 
 probably the cone challenges, which are more work time than play time. The single player has plenty 
 of these modes, but the game would be better with less of them to deal with.
  
  Althought the best part of the game shares the same similarities as other online playable 360 games, 
 as the online modes are more fun to play than the single player modes, but thats not really a good 
 thing.
  
  Tilt:
  
  This game is great, but not as great as it can be. Its understandable considering this is a launch 
 title.
  
  The online mode is the best part of the game, as playing online with others is very fun and satisfying.
 
  
  I can't say the same for the single player mode as its not as deep, engaging, or fun as the online 
 mode. Playing with others is a better experience by far, which saves this great game from a lower 
 score.
  
  So, is it worth it? If you are enabled to use XBox Live, then you might want to give this game 
 a try, but thats really all its worth, since single player mode just doesn't have as good an effect 
 as online mode and feels more like work and a cruise to just finish the game instead of a fun gaming 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosobriety
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Until I played this game, I had no idea that racing million dollar sports cars at over 180 mph 
 not only required skill while taking the corners and passing opponents, but african tribe music 
 and japanese pop-punk tunes playing through the speakers as well. Apparently so. It's not that 
 classical opera music or half-baked hispanic rap songs don't belong in videogames, it's just that 
 a craptastic rendition of Mozart doesn't exactly get my adrenaline pumping on my way to first place 
 victory... Okay, so the soundtrack didn't exactly wow me in any way, but what about the gameplay?
 
  Well, first off, let me just state that I've never played any previous installment from the PGR 
 series, so everything was new to me, except for the fact that I knew if was a sim racer... To be 
 quite honest, I don't feel that I've missed out on anything special by not playing any of the older 
 games. Anyway, what I did expect right out of the box was that the graphics were going to be top 
 notch, able to show a little power of what the 360 is capable of producing, because that's all 
 I had heard about the game prior to launch, how nice it would look. Graphically, the game is rather 
 impressive, very detailed, right down to the interior of each individual car, not to mention the 
 way the driver's hand actually shifts gears when the player does... that's pretty cool. Also, being 
 a native of Las Vegas, I thought the devs did a great rendering of the Strip, especially when driving 
 in the dark, everything lights up like the mighty Strip itself. So yeah, for the intention of buying 
 a launch game to show off the graphical prowess of a new launch system, I think, for the most part, 
 PGR3 did a pretty decent job of that. However, that's about all this game did for me.
  The gameplay is not the type where you can simply pick it up and start driving and expect to win 
 every race on a moderate difficulty like most fun racing games. Even on the easiest difficulty, 
 it can be difficult. If you're off by a hair turning those corners, or steer slightly to the side 
 while hitting straight-away speeds of 185, forget it. Fish-tail, hit a wall, face the opposite 
 direction or stop altogether, it can get pretty ugly, especially without the use of a place-reset 
 button, which would have alleviated some of the frustration I think. Add the pressure of being 
 in first place, completing the race you've practiced so many times on, and knowing that the slightest 
 screw up will finish you, and usually does, really makes for a truly frustrating and tiresome game. 
 It's like you almost have to read and memorize a blueprint of each course to be ultra successful. 
 With that in mind, let me discuss the achievements wating to be unlocked... it is simply an ABSOLUTE 
 chore! Hours and hours of playtime over the same repetitive tracks makes me feel like I should 
 be doing something better with my life... and for what? The only easy achievements this game has 
 to offer, is playing geometry wars in the garage. Other than that, you'd have to seclude yourself 
 in a confined room for days just to finish every race on the novice difficulty setting for that 
 achievement. There has to be at least a hundred races to go thru to get that one. Once you do get 
 that, however, you'll need to repeat the whole process on easy, medium, and hard for another set 
 of achievements... and if you've really got nothing better to do than play this game all day, try 
 your luck at the hardcore setting. Waste of time if you ask me.
  Throw in some rediculously long load times that you can almost nap through, and there goes some 
 solid potential.
  It's quite apparent that the mastering of this game requires endless hours of practice and determination... but 
 when it's all said and done... ithis sequel just isn't worth all of my time and effort, especially 
 with all of the other great games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentBliss
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty much all graphics. Theres really no fun to it no customizing cars, no really 
 high speed racing, lots of turning, and most of the cars have really bad turning. I admit that 
 it looks really good, but something this good has many downfalls. The loading times are not that 
 bad. It shows some damage when you hit other cars. Maybe a game like this will some more destruction 
 would be nice, and the cars could turn better. The garage idea was really cool. I still enjoy looking 
 at my cars. Looks a lot like one of the PS3 racing games. The game overall though is ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosBringer577
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the newest installment in the Project Gotham Racing series from Microsoft 
 Game Studios and Bizarre Creations. The Project Gotham Racing series has been recognized for its 
 unique take on the racing genre, as well its high-fidelity graphical qualities. Project Gotham 
 Racing established a strong fanbase on the original Xbox, with the follow-up sequel attracting 
 Xbox Live gamers to the racing scene.
  
  **Graphics**
  
  To sum up Project Gotham Racing 3's graphics would be easy. Absolutely incredible. PGR 3 leads 
 the race to the Xbox 360 with some of the most photo-realistic graphics a game has ever seen. Each 
 car is meticulously modeled for its real life counterpart, and the polygon count for each vehicle 
 is ridiculously high. The interiors are here too, each one completely recreated, piece by piece 
 from the real thing. PGR 3 also serves up a healthy dish of stunning lighting effects. Each car 
 glimmers with shine as you pass into sunlit areas, headlights flash in your rearview mirrors, blinding 
 you when you glare into the glass. Neon lights glimmer as you scream by, and street signs glisten 
 as your headlights sweep over them. Bloom effects are also plentiful, and really add a great sense 
 of speed when you speed through dark areas to light areas. In addition to the gorgeous cars and 
 lighting, there's the absolutely beautiful environments. Each city is remade, brick by brick, in 
 amazing detail. Vegas features stunning night lights and palm trees, Tokyo has sprawling cityscapes 
 with electric blues and purples, New York is littered with apartments and houses. All in all, it's 
 just an incredible experience hurtling down the Brooklyn Bridge at 175 MPH with the motion blur 
 whipping everything into distortion.
  
  **Sound**
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 not only features excellent graphics, but stellar sound as well. Beginning 
 with the soundtrack, let's just say it's very varied. You'll find just about ANYTHING in here, 
 Japanese techno, Hip-Hop, Rap, Alternative, Classical, you name it, it's probably in this game. 
 Fortunately, it all fits very well with the game's context, despite what you might think about 
 driving with Beethoven in the CD player. Then there's the engine sounds. PGR 3 has some of the 
 most believable car revving any racing game has had to date. Each car sounds distinctly different. 
 High-pitched whines on Ferraris, throaty, deep revs on Lamborghinis, every car sounds different. 
 It's really surprising to pull the right trigger and not hear the same noise played over again 
 from your McClaren F1 LM to your Lamborghini Diablo GT. In addition to that, the squealing of tires 
 is very convincing to, with drifting really being a big part of the game and everything, this portion 
 of the sound was important. Fortunately, Bizarre did a fantastic job of not making the noise over-the-top, 
 but really realistic. It's the subtle sound touches that really get people intrigued though. For 
 instance, depending on which car view you're in, your engine will sound different. If you're in 
 the driver's seat, it'll sound muffled, if you're in the chase view, it'll be louder. Things like 
 this really demonstrate the developer's creativity and capability.
  
  **Controls**
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a game that somehow manages to both reward new and old gamers with a 
 forgiving control system that is easy enough to pick up and play, and also takes time to get good 
 at. You will be able to drive the supercars in this game the first time you pick up the controller, 
 but you probably won't be too good at it until you spend some time with the game. This method of 
 control really benefits the player by helping him/her get into the game right off the bat, but 
 also rewards him/her with better driving skills as the game goes on. You won't be driving the same 
 way after 2 hours of play. You'll be screeching around corners, blazing past buildings, and e-braking 
 your way through hairpin turns. Also, PGR 3's unique feel really shines here. The game takes elements 
 of realistic simulation games such as Forza Motorsports and Gran Turismo, and then reinvents them 
 in it's own arcadey style. It's a feel that's best defined as stylish, as you won't be struggling 
 to hit simple turns, or breaking hundreds of feet before the turn in this game. I really enjoyed 
 the feel, and it's a great combination of realism and arcade.
  
  **SinglePlayer**
  
  PGR 3, is after all, a racing game. Racing game's aren't typically known for having great stories, 
 or emotionally captivating cutscenes. PGR 3 has no story at all. You're just an unknown driver 
 looking to fill up his garage (s) with cool supercars. Does this hurt the game? No, not really. 
 The singleplayer mode consists of Championships, basically 4-5 race segments that have you doing 
 different modes of racing. Such modes include Speed Challenge (Pass the camera line at a certain 
 speed) , Elimination (Every lap the last place racer is kicked) , Street Race (Good old-fashioned 
 racing) , and Cone Challenges (Pass through cones) , to mention just a few. Each Championship is 
 generally varied with different modes so you won't be doing street races the entire time. This 
 really spices things up a bit, and overall benefits the singleplayer mode. Before each race you 
 can choose your car, buy a car, move your cars around, etc (you can do all these things at any 
 time too by selecting the option in the Solo Career menu) . You can also select the difficulty at 
 which your race will be set at, Novice, Easy, Medium, Hard, or Hardcore (respectively, Steel, Bronze, 
 Silver, Gold, Platinum) . Each difficulty setting is well-balanced, and going from difficulty to 
 difficulty is challenging, but not impossible. The achievements for singleplayer consist of things 
 like beating the game, buying all of a certain manufacturer's car, and performing tricks in a race. 
 There's also a Photo Mode, which is definitely worth a mention, as it features great effects such 
 as exposure, contrast, and sepia. You can take some awesome pics with this feature, and it's a 
 great addition. There's also a ton of badges and trophies you can win, so even after you beat it, 
 you can still go through on different difficulties and boost that GamerScore of yours or earn some 
 more badges.
  
  **Multiplayer**
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3's lifespan is extended far past the Singleplayer mode with its outstanding 
 multiplayer features. Split Screen (up to 2 players) , Xbox Live (up to 8 players) , and System Link 
 (up to 8 players) are all part of the multiplayer package of PGR 3. Xbox Live gamers won't be disappointed 
 with the simple, yet effective lobby system and game search systems Project Gotham Racing 3 has 
 to offer. In the lobby, you can choose your car, car class, color, etc. It's very intuitive, and 
 is a great way of organizing things. The game on Live functions very smoothly. Little to no lag 
 makes for a stellar online experience, which is the way it really should be. Drivers who hate bumping 
 can also opt to turn off collisions, and have ghost cars driving around the track, merely focusing 
 on completing the track, without fear of being bumped. Split Screen maintains the 30 FPS frame 
 rate with ease, and really adds a lot to the experience, as you can add bots to your match also. 
 You can vary the bots' skill levels to match your own skill to make for a fair match. PGR 3's multiplayer 
 package will offer you hours of fun, especially if you want to try out the Online Career mode, 
 which faces you off in Championships against real opponents over Xbox Live. One completely unique 
 aspect of the Xbox Live portion of PGR 3 is Gotham TV. In Gotham TV, you can watch as a spectator 
 in different camera views races that are happening live. Gotham TV is a great way to get tips on 
 how to beat certain turns, or pull certain maneuvers. It's also an excellent way to hook up with 
 great players and challenge them to a race. This is a game you'll be playing online for awhile.
 
  
  **Presentation**
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 pulls up a great presentation to navigate through all the great content 
 found inside the game, and it's definitely got a great stylish concept behind the whole game that 
 is ever present in the HUD and driving feel. Gotham TV also adds to the overall presentation in 
 a great way. However, overall, PGR 3's presentation is good, but nothing stellar. Going through 
 the list of cars is easy, thanks to the neat organization, but changing garages is somewhat cumbersome. 
 Load times are also something you will be experiencing a lot in Project Gotham Racing 3. It's not 
 that they're long, it's just that they're in some very unlikely places. It's more of an annoyance 
 than a real problem, but nevertheless something worth mentioning.
  
  **Lasting Appeal**
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 is definitely a game you'll play for about a week with the singleplayer 
 mode, if you play on the easiest difficulty. The game gets considerably longer with each step up 
 in difficulty, as you'll be retrying a lot. But the singleplayer isn't what's going to have you 
 coming back for more. The vast array of multiplayer features that PGR 3 has is what'll keep you 
 hooked on the game for months to come. And with the custom Route Creator, you'll never run out 
 of tracks to school your buddies on.
  
  **Overall**
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the best racing game on the Xbox 360 as of now. There's no doubt about 
 that. With the stellar multiplayer and good singleplayer, PGR 3 is very deserving of your $49.99. 
 With it's flair and appeal to the average and hardcore gamers, Project Gotham Racing 3 scores big 
 with Xbox 360 gamers such as myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2player9X99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I Actually do not own it but i have played it enough to review it. I like this game a lot it is 
 most likely the best in the series. The graphics and the surroundings are so smooth . The handling 
 of the cars are great for all of them. The everything is good for this game. It is worth a buy, 
 the sound is very well done. It isn't a GT killer in my opinion. But it is the best racing game 
 on the Xbox 360. It was the best Xbox 360 launch title I think. The value is great because it now 
 only 19.99 (USA) great game. must own it unless you don''t have a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  PGR 3 is one cool racing game taking formula racing and taking it into the streets of Japan, New 
 York, France, and Vegas. one new feature is the track editor. this lets you customize your own routes 
 in any of the citys. the game has no point except to win all the trophies and become a PGR champion. 
 the online career is also cool becaus eit lets race other people for money. sometimes the race 
 will be broadcasted on gotham tv. so always perform your best online. another cool thing in PGR 
 3 is that you are able to qualify in tournaments. yet i dont know what you win when you are tournament 
 winner because i haven't been able to qualify. there are 25 achievements i have 15. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Next-gen. What does next-gen mean?
  It's hard to define. Some say, it's the graphics. Next-gen graphics. I'm different. I think next-gen 
 is in the gameplay, not the graphics, mainly. Surely, graphics add much to the next-gen feel, but 
 still, it's not everything.
  PGR3 is a great example of a game that has next-gen graphics, but really old-fashioned, dull and 
 repetative gameplay.
  
  The game 's career mode is pretty fast forward. There are tiers you have to compete in. Once you 
 complete a tier, you advance in a new one, and do the same things over and over again. Basically, 
 the difficulty is pretty much the same too, because you can change the difficulty of the race right 
 before you start each race.
  
  There are plenty of game modes, but personally, I only enjoy a few of them. We got the good ole' 
 traditional circuit races, point-to-point races, time-trials (you have to reach checkpoints in a 
 limited amount of time without competitors, or you've to reach the finish line in time without 
 competitors aswell) . Also we have 'coin'-races, where you have to avoid hitting coins, but at the 
 same time, you've to be as fast as possible, and also, we have kudos-challenge, where if you don't 
 earn enough kudos, you get eliminated. Basically, you can earn kudos by driving neat, drifting, 
 going fast, so all that stuff that makes you a good races. But there's still more gamemodes: drifting, 
 speedtrap.... unfortunately, other than the p2p and circuit races, most of these gamemodes get boring 
 pretty fast.
  
  This is the main issue with PGR3: it's way to repetative. Surely, you can go online, and even do 
 online career; but it only means to do p2p and circuit races online; the dull part of the game, 
 the solo challenges, are still going to be solo.
  
  The car selection is overwhelming. There are alot of cars, and you won't be using most of them. 
 Unfortunately, the game rewards you way too much money after each race, so basically, you can buy 
 the most expensive car even after completing only 2 tiers. Majority of the tracks are city-tracks, 
 which adds to the boredom factor. The level design is pretty poor, surely, there are some exceptions, 
 but.... unfortunately there's no free roam, no traffic, so the streets are pretty dead. Luckily, 
 we got Nurburgring, the famous german circuit, which is a blast to drive on, especially on the 
 old F1 track, which is 20km long.
  
  Graphically, the game is brilliant, however, it's not perfect. The car graphics is almost perfect, 
 but the enviorment could've used some polishing. Also, the game doesn't have texture filtering (AF) 
 in it, resulting in extremely annoying shimmering effect which mainly can be noticed on the roads.
 
  
  The controls are fine; arcade-ish, however, I find the cars react way too quickly and robust, gives 
 the controls a very unrealistic feeling. The physics are good, I guess. There's car damage, but, 
 very little, and only the outlook of the car damages; it'll drive the same way all the time, so 
 crashing won't affect your gameplay, which I think is pretty silly.
  
  Overally, this game is a decent racer, it has some good stuff packed in it, but it fails to deliver 
 the next-gen factor. However, if you're a racing fan, give this a shot. It's pretty cheap now, 
 so it's really worth the money! Although, if I reviewed this a year ago, the value wouldn't be 
 so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockinaway
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I have played this alot, and well I am not enjoying it as much as I am other games. The graphics 
 are great, and so is the realism, but I don't really like the way you just get a car and race, 
 no customization and extras like that. The choice care is good, with a wide range and the use of 
 Kudos is great, but still it doesn't have that 'spark' a gamer wants. I think that if there was 
 that kind of thing it would be better, it seemed to me like it was repeating itself all the time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasterwolf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Here I am writing about the new Project Gotham Racing 3. Well I have one question what is with 
 the multi-player I spent 30 min trying to find the multi-player and guess what, I didn't find it. 
 Ya but thats about the only bad thing, o ya i forgot the one car i want to race with is about hum 
 200 wins to get. but i still say that the graphics and the gameplay was intents and i loved tha 
 AI it wasn't impossible to beat but it was just right so I didn't get to just laze around. Also 
 the sound blew my mind away so what i have to say it that i suggest you get your lazy gamer ass 
 up and go get Project Gotham Racing 3. Trust me on this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  this is the best project gotham first you can get a great car and then later on you can buy so 
 many good cars youll have about 4-5 garages im on 3 right now and have about 15 cars i hate that 
 you cant tune your cars but the amount of cars and the quality of cars on this game are great the 
 tuning is a downer but the gameplay and the grafix are the best, its cool because you can have 
 in car view where it shows you driving and if you have to shift it shows your hand goin down to 
 shift unless its a semiauto car it shows you pulling on those lever things , all aroung great gameplay 
 if you have a japanese car it shows you on the right side and if your in a mclaren your in the 
 middle so realistic i bought when it first came out for $60 and got what i paid for but now its$30 
 buy it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  Game play: 8/10
  
  The Game play is fast paced and does it well. This game is all about choosing your exotic car driving 
 it fast and watching all the eye candy. This game has quite a linear story mode and you simply 
 compete in challenges which include race, drift, cone challenges, etc pretty much your basic stuff 
 nothing too innovative. Graphics: 9/10
  
  Amazing, cars look excellent and even though this was a lunch title it still looks like an amazing 
 360 game.
  
  Sound 8/10
  
  Nothing spectacular a lot of car sound are not quite right but overall they did a good job.
  
 
  Value 8/10
  
  Game is that unique or isn't anything you have already done before but if your looking for a good 
 solid arcade racer this is worth the money.
  
  Reviewer's tilt 7/10
  
  Nothing too unique or spectacular about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaclarks
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  I got PGR3 about 2 months ago new for $20, I just finished the game (career mode, 520 achievement 
 points) so now I feel I can give the game a review.
  
  Gameplay (9) - Same good old PGR gameplay... with achievements that are mostly balanced (a few 
 a really hard) . normally I think a game has well balanced achievements if the average gamer can 
 get at least 500 without to much trouble. So I would say COD2 is to easy, PDZ/DOA4 are way to hard, 
 and Dead Rising/PGR3/GRAW are just about right. (not these are just a few examples and yes I have 
 played way more games than just those) . The game has a heavy online focus so if you dont have the 
 internet you might want to think twice as the single player is not as hard or as long as other 
 racing games. Kudos are fun and not all that hard to get if you use the right car.
  
  Graphics (9) - amazing on an HDTV, okay on an SDTV. I own PGR and have played a lot of PGR2 and 
 these graphics are just way better... much more than just another HD upgrade. Sound (8) - good 
 but nothing revolutionary, has a lot of good and bad songs that are played. the cars sound good, 
 no complaints here yet nothing amazing either.
  
  Value (10) - IF YOU HAVE XBOXLIVE, with out the online modes I would drop this to around a 7. So 
 if you dont have or dont like xboxlive concider that when you look at the score I gave it.
  
  Tilt (9) - I really enjoyed this game, and will probably go back to it many times to get the 
 online achievements and to just have fun. The garages are cool to walk around and have a really 
 nice look to them. If you like racing games and/or liked the other PGR games... then you will love 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hcsif
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of different kinds of racing. It is fun and a lot of people are playing this 
 game online. BUT there are many races for you to play offline if you do not have online. It is 
 fun and you can play this game all day. There are a lot of cars and it isnt hard to get money to 
 buy the better cars.
  Good racing game that everyone can love. This game is also very affordable and everyone should 
 get it if you are a racing fan. I cant wait for the new one to come out. It is good and it gets 
 away from the street racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sealy_F
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 17, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  PGR3 has aome very exciting areas of gameplay. Good:
  You would think the game wold be hard to get bored of having all of the game modes but it is relitively 
 easy on all of the modes. Platinum mode is very good for expirienced drivers but the career mode 
 is short and easy. The graphics are good too.
  
  Bad;
  You start off the game with a small amount of money but are a ble to buy a car which can win every 
 race in the game. There is not much point of buying a new car because if you are in a bad car they 
 will be in a bad car too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBTDesigner
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Owning both PGR and PGR2, it was only natural I would be interested in this game. However, I'm 
 cheaper than dirt, so I didn't want to invest even more of my funds for the same game. I waited, 
 read reviews, compared prices... and finally bid on eBay. Unfortunately it never arrived. Lesson 
 learned - eBay is officially on my last resort list.
  I finally received the game through Amazon. com. The graphics are outstanding, especially on HDTV. 
 I find the in-cockpit view a little disconcerting on some of the vehicles but otherwise very well 
 done. I am particularly impressed with the soundtrack improvement... no more cutting off the song 
 when the race is over. That was my biggest complaint with PGR2.
  Now that the newer titles are coming out, the price is dropping for us fund-conscious consumers. 
 PGR3 delivers fantastic bang for the buck!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwbrdr13
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is all around good when it comes to racing whether that be online against friends or 
 just straight on career mode. When you pick this game up and begin to learn the little techniques 
 you quickly become addicted.
  
  Career mode is very good and solid with a mix between racing other cars or competing to make it 
 to a certain point on the track at a certain speed. Also others such as making it around the track 
 in the alloted time each level of difficulty dropping the time you are allowed. As you advance 
 you earn kudos and points toward buying your new car. Online mode with this game has been out there 
 ever since the 360 came out and there is still a bunch of people playing it, which can only mean 
 one thing; this game still kicks some ash online.
  
  Overall this game will always be a classic racing game to me like NFS &amp; Gran Turismo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adblade_172XxX
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  hello my name is Dale schollen and today i am here to review pgr3 i will now talk about these catagories:, 
 gameplay, graphics, enjoyment ,controls, and sound.
  
  gamplay: throughout pgr3 there is alot of options, ranking, cool features and fun to be had, but 
 it still feels like something isnt there like you should be able to use nitro or something, just 
 over a while the game can get boring because ts like a standard racer with good graphics nothing 
 more, it just gets kind of dull at times.
  
  graphics: the graphics are plain great not heartstoping but still very very good even for the xbox 
 360.
  
  enjoyment: throughout my time playing i had mixed reactions because this game has good features 
 and graphics, yet it just can feel dull at times , although you do have the rare run for your money. 
 but if you like plain old racers you will probably like this game. me, im the type of guy who loves 
 tons of action, like huge warzones or parts flying everywhere when you crash.
  
  Contols: the controls are bad and good, they are good because they take one second to learn, yet 
 you still wish there was more stuff you could do is the bad.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, car enginees fell crisp and clean. when you go around a corner you can 
 here a nice little screech of joy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flobertymeow
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham racing is a great game for people who like to do race after race but for me it is 
 just repetitve. Race modes are all realtively the same except racing through cones (which is boring) . 
 The graphics are fab and the cars look great but for me the gameplay lets it down. The selection 
 of cars are great with all the popular ones on there but for non racing cars (Mini) gamers will 
 be dissapointed. I was really looking forward to playing on it but was dissapointed. I would advise 
 Burnout or test drive unlimited. I give it a 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimyGoblin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham 3, like it's predecessors is a good game, if a little 'arcade' in it's approach 
 and handling. Good variety of cars and tracks, easily accessible to both novice and veterans to 
 the series. Has great pick up and play ability, and was a good demonstration of what the 360 can 
 do in a first generation title.
  
  The Add-On's released via the Market place, have been a great let down.
  With Gotham 2, we got 
 a new city and a selection of cars, withe Gotham 3, we get a bunch of cars, that add little, if 
 anything at all to the life span of the game.... Give us more cities.!!!
  
  Good multiplayer racing, although, the interface for joining / creating racers is a little over 
 the top compared to the simple and user friendly Gotham 2 version...
  
  Entertaining, good lifespan, nice to go back to and try to better your Kudos..
  
  Excellent 
 variety of music, from Classical, to that daft crap you young un's listen to nowadays... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtb2468
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing three delivers a top-notch racing experience. The physics of the cars are 
 amazing, and the AI is also very challenging. PGR has a large selection of vehicles and tracks. 
 Once again, as in the past PGRs, if you do not like a track, you are often forced to race it forwards, 
 backwards, mirrored, and mirrored backwards. This is not always the case, but sometimes it does 
 get annoying. Another drawback is the lack of damage. This is not the game producer's fault, however. 
 The companies that produce the cars would not allow significant amounts of damage to be shown on 
 their vehicles simply because this doesn't reflect well on them.
  
  The difficulty settings of the game allow users of all skill levels to enjoy the game without feeling 
 overburdened or left wanting more. The various difficulties ranging from very easy to very hard 
 keep the pace up and add a lot to replay value. Of course, the higher the difficulty you play on, 
 the more you are rewarded with credits that you can buy new cars with.
  
  The soundtrack for the game is a bit on the odd side. It contains music from several different 
 genres, including a few that I had never heard of. If you only like a particular type of music 
 (I favor hardcore, hard rock, etc. myself) then you will probably be unsatisfied with the game's 
 soundtrack. This is not so much of a big deal since you can play your own music instead from your 
 hard drive, PC, or USB device. The sound effects of the game are very good. The engine sounds, 
 tires screeching, etc. allows you to really get into the game and feel like you are actually part 
 of the action, not just watching with a joystick in your hand. After a very short time you find 
 yourself leaning from side to side trying to help your car get around that turn! Overall, PGR is 
 an amazing racing game. Definitely one of the better games to come out so close to the release 
 of the Xbox 360. The graphics are very clean and well-rounded. This game has many hours of gameplay 
 quality, and with the ability to watch other more skilled players using the Gotham TV, you can 
 quickly learn the best strategies for racing. Several different modes of gameplay keep the game 
 from becoming overly repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjxbox
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Today on my lunch break at School I was in town with a few of my friends, one of them had been 
 bugging me to get a 360 for a while, so I said if I had enough cash in my YBS Bank account i'd 
 get one, I went in and luckily enough I had &pound;300 to spare in there. I went to Woolworths 
 and bought a Premium pack with PGR3 and an extra Wireless pad.
  
  I put in all my setting and started playing PGR3. I chose a car to buy in career mode (the NSX) 
 - the graphics don't look all that good there so I was a little worried. I started the race, I 
 had changed my mind!! In game the car graphics are truly amazing with a variety of camera angles 
 to choose from - the front of bonet cam or in car cam are my favourites, theres motion blur and 
 everything!
  
  The gameplay is also very very good, the AI battle with you and sometimes try and ram you off the 
 track etc which is pretty realistic. You can really feel the speed going down those straights or 
 taking a corner quickly, the steering is realistic, you can powerslide or clip apex's etc to improve 
 your speed going in, during and out of corners. also there are many difficulties to choose from 
 Novice, Easy, Medium, Hard and Hardcore - I find Hard suits me best, and I play on Hardcore for 
 a real challenge.
  
  The sound of the engines so far are really good but i've only been in a few cars, revving the engine 
 sounds realistic and you can really hear the roar instead of a drone you get from some games.
 
  
  I truly love this game - the cars, graphics, tracks, scenery and the variety - its truly amazing!!
 
  
  If you like car games, have a 360 and don't own this then shame on you :D - go buy this game now!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harm0n1ca
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 30, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Games like this are a rare gem, and so as such everyone should experience them. This game is incredible, 
 from the simple easy-to-navigate menus themselves, to the cars, the mini arcade games, and the 
 tracks, the list goes on. But these are really just the proverbial toppings on your favourite kind 
 of ice-cream.
  
  The cars themselves are beautiful, from the dullest Chrysler tank, to the ultra fast and world 
 renowned F50 GT, every car is presented to you in explicit, shiny detail. You won't ever take so 
 much pleasure walking around a garage once you have built a collection of your favourite cars in 
 this game, that is guaranteed. The tracks are also fun, and even though they are limited, there 
 is a simple track designer available for you to create your own circuit or point-to-point masterpiece 
 so that you can race it anytime you like. If you're online and hosting a game, you can also race 
 on it with other gamers.
  
  The offline career mode is fun, although a little short, and the real fun is to be had online. 
 The variety of races available is extraordinary, considering this is just a racing game, but there 
 is everything from bog standard races, to team races, then you step into the realms of cone capture 
 and cat and mouse... The list goes on, and each game is fun and challenging in its own right.
 
  
  These things simply tear apart any risk of losing replayability for this game, and you will find 
 that the game can be picked up and played at any time. I've had a quick game waiting for my taxi 
 going out, at the same time I can spend hours online just racing to my hearts content. And there 
 really isn't a limit to the learning curve in this; you're constantly working to perfect that racing 
 line, or find a new way of wiping out an opponent, and again, this presents itself as a fun challenge 
 rather than a tedious task.
  
  Simply put, this game is still one of the easiest to pick up, best, most exciting and least bug 
 plagued games on the Xbox 360, and anyone who has played it will know why this is must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 For Xbox 360.
  
  
  It's worth mentioning right up front that I'm not a big racing game fan. That being said, there's 
 just no way I can describe to you the sheer enjoyment I've experienced while playing through PGR3. 
 The game takes the realistic physics of driving these exotic beasts around different locales, and 
 manages to add in an arcade style of play control to form an absolutely astonishing racing experience. 
 Not only that, but the game also shows the type of polish that you'd never expect to witness in 
 a launch title for a brand new console. The game's easy enough for even unexperienced racing gamers, 
 but offers enough challenge in hardcore mode to blow even the most veteran PGR player off the track.
 
  
  Gameplay : It's difficult to describe the gameplay in PGR3 because it's honestly smack dab in the 
 middle of two different types of racing games. The physics in the straight ahead approach of the 
 game lends itself to more of a racing simulation, but somehow the developers have taken all of 
 the nit-picky racing details and reformed them around an arcade-style control system. What you 
 get is a very realistic looking and feeling racing game, but with the ease of use and all-out fun 
 of an arcade racer. It all manages to come together quite seamlessly, and makes playing the game 
 possible even for those not accustomed to racing games. The game also gives you a range of choices 
 in difficulty for each race ranging from the super-easy novice setting all the way up to the insanely 
 challenging hardcore setting. Gamers of all abilities will find something to love about PGR3.
 
  
  What would a racing game be without the ability to buy cars. And PGR3 has some of the most powerful, 
 not to mention beautiful, cars you could ever dream of owning. As you win races and accomplish 
 tasks in the game, you will acquire credits. You can use these credits to purchase new cars along 
 the way, including the million+ credit A rated cars. The only thing lacking in the game that might 
 be sorely missed by some gamers is the lack of being able to customize your cars. You can buy them, 
 but you can't change them, except for the color of the body when you first purchase it. But let's 
 face it, customization has never been a point of the PGR series, as the series has always made 
 the actual racing the focal point of the game leaving these expendable optional features to other 
 racing games. The online play is actually one of the game's stronger points, if you can believe 
 that. Not only does the game play lag-free, but it also uses the matchmaking system to automatically 
 place you in races with other players of your same ability level. This way you won't get thrown 
 into a race with the hardcore racers and get blown off the track plus it also gives you a chance 
 to start slow and work your way up the ranks. Of all of the Xbox 360 games so far, PGR3 offers 
 the smoothest overall online experience to date. Graphics : There's no denying PGR3 is absolutely 
 gorgeous in almost every facet of the game's visuals. You won't find a more detailed or dynamic 
 racing game on any system around. Every single one of the many exotic cars found in the game show 
 an attention to detail that's bordering on staggering. Even when the cars are in full motion zooming 
 down the track, they all manage to look terrific. As if the good looking cars weren't enough, PGR3 
 also surrounds you with some of the most lavish and realistic-looking environments you can imagine, 
 ranging from the strip in Las Vegas to downtown London at night. The developers have made some 
 very creative uses of the Xbox 360's special effects to give the cars and surroundings a truly 
 realistic look of real-time lighting and it adds a level of speed and realism that's just never 
 been seen before in a racing game. To top it all off, PGR3 also gives you a new racing perspective 
 of actually sitting inside the car behind the wheel complete with authentic car dashboard and dirty 
 windshields. No detail was spared when the developers decided to make this the most realistic racing 
 game ever crafted. If you're looking for a game to show off your brand new Xbox 360 to your friends, 
 this is the game to get. Not only does the game run at an unbelievably smooth framerate, it also 
 manages to do so at an incredible rate of speed. Simply amazing!
  
  Sound : If you can't find at least a few music tracks that you like in PGR3's soundtrack, then 
 you're one finicky music lover. Ranging from alternative rock all the way through the scale to 
 classical Mozart, PGR3 has a very wide range of songs from a truly wide assortment of artists. 
 Each song seems to set the tempo of the race perfectly, even the more melodic and relaxing classical 
 tunes. But as amazing as the soundtrack is, it's really the ultra-realistic sound effects that 
 make the game shine. Each and every car has its' authentic engine noise duplicated to perfection. 
 From the gutty roar of the GTR, to the Indy-style squeal of the Ferarri F50 GT, it all comes together 
 to make you feel like you're actually inside the car itself. It's just incredible what the sound 
 developers were able to accomplish when putting these realistic sound effects together, and the 
 work was well spent as players now have the true car sounds to go with the sights in the game. 
 PGR3 has one of the most complete and engaging video game soundtracks you're ever likely to encounter 
 in a video game and shows what can be done when the time and effort is properly put into it.
  
  Simply put, PGR3 is one of, if not THE, strongest launch titles of the bunch. It shows polish, 
 creativity, and offers one of the most realistic looking racing experiences you could ask for in 
 a game. The game offers plenty to do, and serves up a 15+ hour offline gaming experience, not to 
 mention limitless online options to keep any racing game fan happy for some time to come. The only 
 downside that there seems to be found with PGR3 is that it might be awhile before we see PGR4. 
 Whether you're a racing game fan or not, you owe it to yourself to at least give this game a try. 
 It's one of the most stunning games to come along in, well, forever. Top shelf all the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmogoon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  I suppose the first thing you notice when booting up a race in the gotham career is probably, aswell 
 as the striking graphics, the noob-friendly controls.
  For example the lightning quick brakes and simply the ease of making it round difficult corners 
 are definitely a pleasant contrast to more simulation oriented games such as Gran Turismo.
  However, for more hardcore gamers who feel like the game doesn't do justice to their fiendishly 
 dexterous abilities, there are five difficulty settings for every single street race, cone challenge, 
 hot-lap and so on.
  With more than 20 different championships and 80 vehicles to choose from, there's plenty to keep 
 you occupied.
  PGR 3 also uses a credit system where you're rewarded for winning or achieving the required position 
 in races and challenges. You can then use this money to buy any cars you want, although a few cars 
 require unlocking which is a great incentive to hone your skills and adds replay value to the game.
 
  The multiplayer via xbox live works very well with flawless gameplay even when racing with seven 
 other players. With a varied selection of race options, competing online is definitely a highlight 
 of the game.
  
  I believe the developers couldn't have produced a better game for the 360 release date. The visuals 
 are some of the best to date, with a long and addictive career mode, backed by a strong multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 25, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  i must say this game is simply amazing, awesome graphics and visuals, sounds, and gamplay.
  
  the controls can be a little tricky for some people, but after a while of getting use to it, 
 it can be easier to race on platium. i like all the level designs, looks so real and the game runs 
 smoothly. Racing for Silver isn't all that hard to beat but it can be time consuming. But to achieve 
 all Platium medals to unlock the achievement, u would have to play quite a bit to get platium. 
 the hardest race for me to get platium is doing the Cones. i can never beat any cones races. I 
 like the idea of Gotham TV, it takes online gaming to a whole new level, being able to watch other 
 players over xbox live as if you are watching the tv. online gameplay is really smooth, but sure 
 takes a while for all the players to be connected to play. thats the only downfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 300_Spartans
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Fun, it is great to sit in the car, and look around in its interior, i wish it had free 
 roam, so i could spend more time admiring how great las vegas looks!
  
  Graphics: Best ive ever seen, every part on the game is VERY detailed, the interior of the cars 
 are hard to look away from
  
  Sound: Sound is great, i thought all the cars sounded perfect, and so did the competitors cars, 
 it also had a cool soundtrack.
  
  Value: its a must have game, it is very different from the rest, and i loved it.
  
  This game 
 made me feel like i wasnt in my living room, but in an aston martin. It was great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madhead4000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, being bedbound is boring so i've decided to do a few reviews. I dont want it judged on what 
 you think of the game, just the information in my review and the language i use etc... Here is 
 my Project Gotham Racing 3 review... (Its long im afraid) Project Gotham Racing 3 (Xbox360) First 
 of all, this isnt a review of a game Ive played for ten, fifteen or twenty minutes. Ive been 
 playing this game just about everyweek for a few months now so I have quite a bit of experience 
 with it. In the last generation, I couldnt get enough of Project Gotham Racing 2. The cars, the 
 tracks and the game modes we created ourselves just threw this game to the top of our favourites 
 list and for this reason, we had hoped Project Gotham Racing 3 was a lot like it. But it isntits 
 a totally upgraded game. Now the game in general has well over 100 cars. Everything from the lower 
 end of Ferrari such as the Testarossa to the very top end such as the Ferrari F50GT. A lot of people 
 were put off by the Life Starts At 170mph and I personally wasnt the biggest fan of the idea. 
 I mean come on, what is Project Gotham Racing without a Mini? Anyway, the game is based in 5 cities 
 around the world including London, Tokyo , Las Vegas and the world famous Nurburgring as well as 
 a custom route creator which ill talk about later. As in Project Gotham Racing 2, you have to complete 
 certain challenges throughout different cities to earn trophies and cash. The higher the difficulty, 
 the bigger you wallet will get. There are 5 difficulties working up from the very easy Steel 
 difficulty to the much much harder Platinum difficulty. While racing you will earn Kudos. You 
 earn this by doing powerslides, overtaking, driving on two wheels etc The singleplayer side of 
 the game is very simple. Take part in different challenges to complete a tournament and get your 
 hands on some cash. Challenges vary from simple races, to getting a huge powerslide around a single 
 corner, overtaking a set amount of cars in a specified time, to driving with style to earn Kudos. 
 Throughout the singleplayer game, youll be buying more and more cars to fill your garage. You 
 get a new garage every time you fill your current garage, there are nine in total. One thing I 
 do miss is the ability to walk around a humungous dealership to see the cars before you buy. However, 
 this is rectified in the ability to be able to walk around your garage and see your cars in all 
 their High-Definition glory and they really are beautiful. The online, ranked multiplayer side 
 of this game is what sets it apart from the rest. There is an online career which is where you 
 climb the ranks of the worldwide leaderboard. You will pick a car from a specified car class and 
 race strangers for a single race. If you beat a player that is a higher rank, you go up the leaderboard. 
 If you get beat by a lower ranked player, you go down the leaderboard. Unfortunately you cannot 
 invite your friends for ranked races which is disappointing but the unranked game makes up for 
 it. In the online career, you can only use the cars purchased from the singleplayer game The unranked 
 online side of this game is just perfect. Eight players choose a car and slug it out around a track 
 grappling for first position in a several game modes. These include your standard race, team race, 
 eliminator, team eliminator and capture the track. Since release there have been several calls 
 for the Mini Cooper to be released as downloadable content for the much loved user created Cat 
 And Mouse. Developers Bizarre Creations went the extra mile creating a complete Cat And Mouse 
 game mode as well as other modes too. Up to the day of writing, there have been four downloadable 
 packs, all of which include cars including the much screamed for Mini Cooper and several new game 
 modes. Project Gotham Racing also has a complete tournament side to its online capabilities. Bizarre 
 Creations will choose a car, track and transmission for people to do a timed laps with. The top 
 64 players will advance into an elimination phase until there is a winner. These races can be watched 
 live through Project Gotham Racings Gotham TV. Gotham TV allows people to watch the worlds best 
 players in ranked races rather than racing them themselves. Up to 30,000 people can watch a single 
 race at any one time. Another thing worth talking about is the Photo Mode that this game includes. 
 At anytime during any singleplayer race, the race can be paused and photomode can be accessed. 
 In photomode you can take photos, create effects and save the photos to your Xbox360 harddrive. 
 Since the most recent update, these photos can now be uploaded to the internet and downloaded onto 
 your PC which is another very neat feature. Project Gotham Racing also has its own Route Creator. 
 This is a nice idea although it does have a few flaws. A created route is a nice change but the 
 corners are not barriered off like your standard tracks. Instead it just has a big yellow arrow 
 telling you which way to go, which at 240mph, can be very difficult to see until you planted your 
 face into it. A very neat idea that does add another element to the game. Achievement wise Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 was released with only 19 achievements, however, Bizarre Creations then created 
 4 more and released them with the most recent patch. The achievements range from completing the 
 game on certain difficulties, owning the most exotic cars in the world, using the games different 
 features and winning certain races online. Personally, I think graphics are the least important 
 part of a game. But this game has beautiful graphics to compliment the excellent gameplay. The 
 reflections on the cars while racing are excellent, the graphics while walking around your garages 
 are truly jaw dropping and with every single car in the game having a full cockpit view, which 
 is identical to the real life version, this game is really pushing the boundaries as did its Project 
 Gotham Racing 2. There are a few moans however. While playing in multiplayer races, the cars seem 
 to like spinning from minimal contact with other players. You will get used to it but it is annoying 
 at the start. Another thing is the lack of garage space. With 4 downloadable car packs, there isnt 
 enough room for all the cars, which means you cannot have a full choice of cars when playing the 
 singleplayer game or online career. My last moan is regarding the online career. The car classes 
 switch between the different races at midnight. But that is midnight to the gamer. For example, 
 I will be racing C Class cars around the Nurburgring as midnight but the Americans wont be able 
 to do it for another 6-8 hours. This can make the online career very empty but in the evening, 
 its not too much of a problem. Final Verdict When Project Gotham Racing 3 hit the shops on the 
 Xbox360s release day, it was a pure joy to play. Since then, Bizarre Creations have added and added 
 and added to this game, and the additions have been exactly what the players have been asking for. 
 Cat and Mouse and the Photomode upload were by far the 2 top requested improvements and they 
 have been added promptly. Despite the moans, overall this game has great gameplay, jaw dropping 
 visuals and with Bizarre Creations on the project, you can be pretty sure the gamers will get what 
 they like. This game easily deserves a 43 out of 44 as it is by far, one of the Xbox360s best games. 
 Please give an honest opinion and dont flame. Creative critisism is greatly appreciated! Thanks! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm only getting this game now, and its almost a year since its release. I supose these graphics 
 were concidered next-gen back then, but now we are seeing even more of how far the 360 can push 
 its graphics capability.
  
  I found this game was just right in difficulty, maybe a touch too difficult, but just-right none 
 the less. I could rarely get past the Bronze Metal, so either that says I'm not a very good gamer 
 or I just don't have enough patience.
  
  I would have liked to see more detail in the vehicles and possibly better work done on the terrain. 
 When driving I looked at the wheels and found they looked very fake which made the car seem as 
 if it was a half-ass copy of a real life car. I felt that especially because of the way the brakes 
 look, the brakes are just 1 shade of color wraped around the shape of a brake, I would have liked 
 more detail on the calipers and disks.
  
  Load times may seem very long for some people.
  
  Also since this was the first game I am playing on my new 360, I found the controls very odd, 
 but thats the view of an X-Sony Fanboy.
  
  If you want a good racing game, don't even look at this one because there are much better ones 
 that have been released since this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yencanwasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is a fun game. It has great graphics and the sound of the cars are very realistic when using 
 an optical out to a high Quality receiver. The surround sound puts you right in to the game making 
 it a fun game to just sit down and play for hours. The game does have many good features like multiple 
 beautiful garages to store you cars in and realistic Manual transmission. The downfall of this 
 game is its not very player friendly to people that are not experienced in racing games. I find 
 my self getting frustrated with the game and have to turn it off or lower the difficulty settings. 
 Even with this the gaming is very impressive.
  
  if you have music loaded on your xbox360 it will play in the game without sacraficing the surround 
 sound.
  
  Beginner's in racing games I would rent this game first to see your skill level before buying it, 
 it can be frustrating, but if you stick with it you will be surprised how good you will become. 
 Using manual is your best bet in the long run, it is harder but you will become even better in 
 this game if you get familiar with it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rvpf133
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  the game is pretty addictive, if you ask me, even though other racing games, like test drive unlimited, 
 are better (trust me i have both) . anyways, the picture taking is pretty cool cuz the pictures 
 come out nice and smooth, unlike the graphics while playing in-game. it's fun online, even if you 
 lose, it is a very nice addition to your gaming collection, and it's a good buy for $30 or less. 
 it might not be the best racing game out there, to date, but it's good. thats all there is to say. 
 but i need a bigger word count. so that is why i am writing stuff here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, realistic, and a major list of cars. Race on many different tracks, within several 
 different kinds of race modes, and a nice and large selection of the finest and fastest cars on 
 the market. Very much apart of Xbox Live, as you can get online and race against other players 
 through various race modes. So far this is my favorite racing game except for Burnout Revenge, 
 which is an entirely different type of racing game. PGR3 is purely simulation, and you must perfect 
 the abilities and manuvers of each of your cars in order to win. From what I've seen so far, only 
 one major problem on this game. Loading times are pretty long compared to other games I've played. 
 But, if you like racing games I suggest atleast renting this or even buying it because its a great 
 game. Also, this game is going pretty cheap now, I got my copy for only $13.00, which is a great 
 deal on a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dymion
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  PGR 3 came bundled with my New Xbox 360 and I was excited about this as PGR 1 came with my original 
 Xbox and I enjoyed it very much.
  
  Bizarre have really done a good job of trimming all the fat off this title and making the user 
 experience clean and intuitive. The menus are simple and uncluttered with the main choices available 
 all the time and the less used options hidden under a "More..." selection which makes jumping from 
 garage to racetrack very quick.
  
  There is also no messing about when you get to the first race either, you pick a car, well super-car 
 from the ever increasing drool fest that comes as you earn credits and kudos, and your flying around 
 the streets of London, Tokyo or New York amongst others. My only gripe is the load times which 
 can be painfully slow as the track information loads but once they have the scene is very impressive. 
 The level of detail is very high with nice touches like when you go through a tunnel and come out 
 into daylight there is a short period where the image adjusts the contrast like your eyes would 
 do in RL.
  
  The Kudos is still a big part of PGR 3 which is an element that I enjoy that you dont find in other 
 racers as you are not only fighting for first place but trying to power slide around every corner 
 and find any spot where you can get some air. All in all, a great racing title with good pedigree 
 which has some stunning visuals and a great feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I will say that I do like this game. The graphics and sound are great and the gameplay is close 
 to realistic. My beef with it, like a lot of other 360 games, is that it lacks depth. I like games 
 where I can build up cars, not just earn money and buy it. This is like the Fight night of 360 
 racing games. Pretty, sounds good, looks realistic, but that's the surface. The realism of drag 
 behind the car is existant, but it is far from accurrate. Also when you nudge a car, chances are 
 swerving will occur, especially with cars going 150+ mph. To me, this game was completely overhyped. 
 It does not deserve an 8.8, especially because it isn't deep enough. Online play is fun, but can 
 be challenging. Rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrahfZilla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Funny how things work. I really didn't like PGR2, at all. I thought it felt average and I didn't 
 like the focus on kudos.
  
  I wasn't sure what to expect from PGR3. I tried the demo and I can't say I was impressed. But I 
 got the chance to buy it cheap so I thought what the hell let's do it. Let's just say that I do 
 not regret my purchase in the least.
  
  I think part of what makes PGR3 click that much more for me than PGR2 did are the achievement points. 
 In PGR2 I didn't have the motivation to try the races at a higher difficulty level and I didn't 
 have the motivation to learn the kudos system; all I wanted to do is race and it felt like the 
 game was going out of its way to not let me race. But in PGR3 all of a sudden I was being rewarded 
 for challenging myself and that changed everything. I actually finished every race on Platinum, 
 I seriously cannot remember the last time I finished a game on a difficulty level higher than normal 
 before PGR3. It's focus on kudos points goes hand in hand with the achievements although I have 
 to say that it is still not something I'm that fond of which shows by the fact that I didn't get 
 the 'style challenge' achievement. The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is very tight (sort of 
 a cross between arcade and simulation physics) , the music is just plain sweet considering you can 
 use custom soundtracks and it's an overall awesome value. I'm giving it a 9 in Sound because in 
 the game it says that it has some J-Pop and let me tell you, the 'J-Pop' they have in the game 
 sure as hell isn't the J-Pop I know and love. Maybe I should send them some Ayumi Hamasaki, Ami 
 Suzuki, Koda Kumi etc CD's just to show em what J-Pop is. Their 'J-Pop' songs sound much more like 
 North American music than it does Japanese music. A big disappointment for my part. I gave it a 
 9 on tilt because I would have preferred if the game focused more on racing and less on kudos.
 
  
  So in conclusion, buy this game it's one of the cheapest games for the 360 right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  You want a driving game that challenges your drifting skills and car control, this is the one. 
 I never had so much difficulty driving a Ferrari GT and staying on the road, which to me, seems 
 pretty realistic. Some games these days don't stick with the reality of driving.
  
  Graphics are awesome and sound is realistic. As of features that differ this game from others, 
 nothing is really new. Gotham TV is ok, but who likes to watch someone else drive, I rather it 
 be me!
  
  One thing for sure is I like the feature to travel inside your garages. You can check out from 
 up close your cars and be amazed of how much details are put in its design and the environment.
 
  
  Good luck staying on the road!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryandc
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  THIS is a very good game from MICROSOFT . PGR AND FORZA MADE FOR BEAT GT. AND EVery time microsoft 
 want to do a work made a Masterpiece and beat all rivales and it is a good work.
  in this game microsoft team put their art in make sound and graphic they made spaces good such 
 as REALITY. THE controll of game is just good and better you play with Xbox 360 Wireless Racing 
 Wheel
  THE CARS ARE GOOD same they are cars you want drive with them. you can play from all sides and 
 you can play from car and inside of cars made good.
  only that buy and play this good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately this game is really not what I look for in a racing game but I had to spend money 
 to find this out. There are a lot of cool cars but no way to customise them, a lot of them have 
 no colour options at all. With 2 hours play I could afford the best car in-game as the game is 
 not about the best-car grind, its about the achievements and completing it at the pace of car youre 
 happy with. As a result its not very immersive at all, I can see the appeal if youre too young 
 to drive as this is literally a driving simulator. The game isnt very difficult and has an uber 
 easy setting, you can complete the game using the starter car as car class or speed isnt a factor. 
 "Pretentious" is definitely the right word the use - the graphics are moderate but nothing special 
 and the multiplayer options seem a bit linear compared to unlimitted driving. A bit pointless really 
 - If youre thinking of buying this look into unlimitted driving& nfsu instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend_of_Japan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  hello call me oldskool but im a ps2 player swithed to a 360 after my ps2 broke. I can say im a 
 hardcore racer im on of those who hates burnout. I like racing the race not chashing..... since 
 i chashed my car. PGR is one the great racing games, but its one of the games where u dont know 
 where ur r. I cant live without knowing where i am. I am at the 3rd garage with ferraris and lambis'and 
 i still dont know where im at with the kutos. Like Grand Tris u can look in a race, and see where 
 u r. But there r unsupected things with pgr there r more cars then u think a lot more. One of the 
 most greatest things the sound track... u can plug ur ipod in it and listen to ur music as u race, 
 instead of listening to the crapy music they give u, but if u spent all ur money on just the system 
 and cant afford one.... to bad. Well i dont want to spent all my time on the talk bye. Ps Taylo234 
 it's grandtrismo 4 not 3 u dip and grand tris is still the better game 10 to 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdolescentDon
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is a great game and I highly recommend it. It's nether a simulation game nor an Arcade game, 
 it's really just somewhere in the middle. Just a warning to people that are used to playing PGR2, 
 the cars in this game slide around a lot more and it may take a little while to get used to (as 
 it did for me) .
  
  You basically have the Career mode which features the main offline career which sees you progressing 
 through sets of challenges (Speed Camera, cone gates, street races .. etc.) And you earn points 
 to buy new cars, which you keep in your garages (You get new garages as you fill the ones you have) . 
 I feel the Career mode has enough challenges in it to keep the average player going for quite some 
 time, with the added challenge of doing them on the higher difficulty levels.
  
  Then you have the online career mode, which is just racing online with other people with preset 
 tracks and restricted car classes/cars. As you progress through the online career you get a rank 
 in number form (much like in Halo 2) and a class (beginner.. etc) . It's a good addition to the 
 series.
  
  Then you have the whole playtime mode which is just free race, online racing and Race against the 
 clock. In playtime all cars in the game are available to you from the start.
  
  With Live play unlike online career you enter a room and the host chooses the track and you can 
 have whatever car you want - as long as the host approves - you also have modes such as cat and 
 mouse, capture the track etc. which can make for some very fun games. This is the mode I play the 
 most and I find it very fun. I also find that players in PGR3 (Unlike those found in Halo 2) are 
 fairly polite and not so aggressive (thats just from my experience though) .
  
  then you have racing against the clock which is just what it says on the tin. Then there is the 
 GothamTV section which basically has a option to view your saves photos which you can take during 
 a race when you pause the game and the main Gotham TV mode in which you can watch other players 
 race. You also have the route creator tool which you can use to create custom routs in all the 
 cities (bar the Nrburgring) .
  
  The game also looks the part, the cars are lovingly deatailed down to the smallest little nuts 
 and bolts and the cities look amazing with huge buildings towering overhead and almost photorealistc 
 looking fronts of the buildings. There is also hundreds of spectators lining both sides of the 
 track cheering and waving. it's definetly the best looking racing game to date.
  
  All in all it's a great racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevorj
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I love this game for it's controls and realism. It's also fun buying cars. I don't know, 
 but something about it is so right. It's also so fun driving the cars, the physics are so right 
 and realistic it's FUN! I thought it was gonna be dumb driving so realisticly but it's fun. Don't 
 underestimate it! It's a good game.
  
  Graphics: So far the best graphics on the 360 , I think. The light effects are so cool and realistic. 
 It's clear and shiny and reflecty and bright. It's sweeeeet.
  
  Sound: It's sounds so real when you're in the car. Everything's all like, lower. It's nice. My 
 ears are having fun when I play PGR3. Overall: Awesome Gameplay, Sweet Graphics, Fantastic Sound. 
 Overall, it's a great game with a low price for such a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newmanmaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  Pgr3 is one of or the best racing game I have ever played. The sheer amount of details put into 
 this game is amazing making you think you actually driving a real car in a real race with Ferraris, 
 corvettes, and tons of other cars most people dont even know exist and good fast cars. When I 
 say this game is exciting. well its exciting especially when playing online with other racers 
 from around the world. This is one of those games you could easily get addicted to. The career 
 mode was not that great but for some reason I wanted to play it so I could beat it. There werent 
 enough street races in the in the career mode there were to much competitive timed races and what 
 not but still I kept playing. After your done getting as much points as you can get from the career 
 mode its time to move to the online career mode unfortunately not a lot of people play the online 
 career cause I can never seem to find a game. But there are always a lot of people playing on the 
 play time mode my favorite cat and mouse fun as hell. But this is a game that should be bought 
 even if you dont like racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylo234
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ive ever played, honestly. There are many racing games out there, but only 
 one you get great graphics, great gameplay, awsome cars, complete online play, route creator, awsome 
 tracks, and great campain/story. This is just the greatest and most realistic game simulater. Its 
 like your driving a real car! There are 4 possible views including inside drivers view. There is 
 even a photo mode and you can edit your photos like adding focus and many more. If i had one word 
 to describe this game it would be.. Fanaminal! This is one game that will last for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevMachine
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 27, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  i was at first a little hesitant in buying pgr racing for my xbox 360. Not because i had any arguments 
 with racing games, they arnt on the top of my favs list, i rather role-playing and fps, but after 
 an hour of standing in front of the glass wall at my local wall mart, i bought it and raced home 
 to play, not really thou,,, lol
  
  almost instantly i felt blown away by the graphical advantage over any other racing games i ever 
 played, pretty much the grand tourismo games, and a smooth steering system that i loved even more.
 
  
  the game was very remarkable in the realisim of the cars and the track itself. People in the audiance 
 were real like and reacted to the race as people would, they would jump back if a crash happend 
 close by, and they were all diffrent, so it seemed.
  
  carrear mode however did have its bad side. An utter lack of story wasnt to bad for racing games 
 dont particularly need a story, however i find it adds that extra touch, and the lack of change 
 though out the carrear, simply winning a race then going to the next one right to the end, didnt 
 hit the mark like i would of liked, but the graphics, sound and feel of the game made up for that 
 in folds.
  
  the game is really easy to learn and the novice mode is really good for begginer racing players, 
 like my 6 year old cousin gets first, and the hard core level offers gamers with more skills a 
 challange, too hard for me thou i play on hard... lol, which is always fun
  
  this game was defently worth buying and i am very pleased with its overall play, id recommened 
 buying.
  
  BY KEVMACHINE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisempire
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 24, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, PGC3 is an awesome game, like NFSU2 with awesome cars, and like Grand Turismo 4, 
 awesome graphics (its my first xbox 360 game... so i dont know much about this) , and of course, 
 awesome courses. The only bad thing in that, is the fact of there not being any story, or even 
 in-between-race short-films. There could be at least a main character in which the story could 
 go along with, but no... there's only the cars and the races. NFSU2 is a story based game, but the 
 graphics are not as good as Grand Turismo 4, or PGC3, making it a 7.5 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevint1818
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a racing game somehwere in between a simulation and an arcade racer. 
 The game is really as close to an Automobile Enthusiasts dream game as there has been on any console, 
 ever. The first thing you will notice in the game is that the graphics are amazing. Then youll 
 say, the online community is sweet. Also the controls are good and every car is uniqe on the track. 
 The sound is also quite good, especially consideing the amout of high end cars that had to be recorded 
 and put into the game to make the sounds accurate.
  
  The career is relatively deep but the most satisfying races you will do are online. There are always 
 thousands of people online and there is a very good raking system. This is the best driving game 
 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kierandecke
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  This game has got it all from amazing cars to amazing driving 
  
  The gameplay is just perfect easy enought for the most novice of players also offering a more challenging 
 game for those hardcore gamers out there
  
  Graphics in this game are stunning making cars look real and the feature to wal around your own 
 garage is just spectacular and an amazing part to the many amazing features in this game.
  
  story this game has no story being a racing game but the amount of cars you can collect for 
 your garage is just amazing theres over a hundread to buy and there all licsened.
  
  the replay value is good aswell you can just race your cars all day on different tracks 
  
 
  the online mode is also very good offering online tournaments and many other online features
 
  
  allthogther i would reccomend this game to anyone who is a driving fan!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of both sim and arcade racing games, and PGR3 has such a great blend of both worlds 
 that it is hard to deny the fun to be had with this games beautiful visuals, great surround sound, 
 and stunning attention to detail.
  
  The cars are all high class speed machines. This was a letdown for me at first, since you start 
 off with cars almost as good as those you finish with. But it works b/c the game is all about speed 
 and style. After playing the game more, I realized that this game just wasn't meant for a custom 
 VW jetta or something to that nature.
  
  The physics make for challenging yet very fun racing and the cars all have thier own feel. 
  
 
  The cockpit POV is amazing and should be used in every racing game from now on, it truly puts you 
 into the experience like no other racer before. This camera angle alone makes PGR3 a rewarding 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 2:09 am PT
Review:  the graphic are the bet in this game it great!!! the gamplay is like anyother racing game and it 
 get boring after a while. the sound is almost the same for every car!!! the values are alright 
 could of been better!!! I give the game a ok score because it a great game at first but get really 
 boring!!! always the same except the differnt levels. i like the graphics, or how you can walk 
 around garage and how every thing is shown. its a great game if you like racing in couse. need 
 for speed its a way better game, maybe not the grapgic but the rest!!! two really difernt game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehsdomi
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game gets very boring, very fast. The driving is very fun, but you can buy the most expensive 
 in like the third race. Gives you no real incentive to play after that. I would much rather wait 
 till Test Drive comes out. Game gets boring and repetitive. Graphics are amazing though and the 
 sound is nice. Definitely a rental first even though you can buy the game now for like $20 and 
 even cheaper used. Another thing is some gamer points are easy, some are hard. Worth the rental 
 I guess, if you are a car guy or gal.
  
  -Dynamic Games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hot_and_Spicy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a must own for racing fans, as well as graphics whores. This game has 
 some of the best graphics I have ever seen in a game. The models look sharp, the tracks are nicely 
 detailed, and it just gives you that feel of being "there". 
  
  Tricky at first, I was about to give up on Project Gotham Racing 3. You really have to spend time 
 in the campaign mode to pick up on it. Trust me. After an hour or so, you will not want to put 
 this game down. It is just so much fun. The only downside is that it is not a customizable car 
 game, like, per se, Forza or Gran Turismo. Sometimes the online is crazy hard also. Another downside 
 is that races can get repetitive, but not enough to want you to quite the game, just to annoy you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenlong
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  ill be honest ive never liked project gotham racing before. ive always looked at it and looked 
 away. when i saw pgr3 i would have never aniticipated tht it would be so amazing. 
  
  pg3 blends amzing true to life graphics with some even better audio and the best gameplay for a 
 racing game ive ever seen.
  
  the thing i loved about p gr3 is the incar view witch allowed you not only to drive the car but 
 also look around all over the inside and just feel what it is like to be in that car. the windsheild 
 colects dust and shows lights reflectingoff the windsheild. 
  
  the sense of speed you get while driving these cars is truly amzing like motion blur on each side 
 and you turn your head and all you see are the blured images off the crowd or the enviroment zip 
 on passed you. 
  
  the car models are so real to life its almost as if you could just reach out and drive them your 
 self the graphics are that amazing. 
  
  people in the crowd act realy nicely to like when you hit a wall youll see the all back out of 
 the way and peak over to see if the driver is ok and it is just fantastic. 
  
  but as much as these graphics and gameplay are awsome the sound just ads soo much more to this 
 amazing pacckage. 
  
  the music you listen to changes depending on what car your in. like if your driving a classy car 
 you might start hearing old classical music then you might go in to a fast car and start hearing 
 some faster paced rock songs then you might go into a slow car and hear some soft slower paced 
 rock its all just incredible and each soundtract they play for a car just suits that car 
  and make the game so much more injoyable. 
  
  it seems as though the developers went out of 
 theyre way to make sure the each engine was different sounding and each car controlled that much 
 different then the other one. for exampl some cars may go extremly fast but also may have a hard 
 time making sharp turns. then the there are cars that controll well fo some people but may go to 
 slow for theyre taste but eventually you'll find a car that suits you.
  
  also the way the sound changes everytime you change a view point is just awsome and tells you that 
 the developers spent every bit of time they had to make this game perfect. 
  
  the online mode adds a whole lot to this package as well alowing you to go on quick matches for 
 fun but the there is a career online mode as well were you play against players who are equal skill 
 to you and you race them to get higher on the score board. then there is a gotham tv mode were 
 you just watch other people race witch is pretty neat but its more fun just to drive these car 
 for your self.
  
  overall this game is the door opener for the next generation of videogames. it shows you that little 
 more detail can mean alot mor and in my opion this is a game every 360 owner should have cuz it 
 is just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzNTripledragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I have played a lot of racing games (Gran Turismo 2, 3, 4, Forza, Project Gotham 1, 2, all the 
 Need for Speeds etc.) I must say none of them come close to how fun and beautiful Project Gotham 
 Racing 3 is. Watching the Ferrari F50 GT gleaming in the sunlight and the BMW M3 CSL drifting on 
 the turns of Tokyo always brings a smile to my face. Seeing my opponent eat my dust and slam into 
 the side of a wall gives me a sense of pride. Pulling off an amazing manuver to overtake my opponent 
 using the inside line of a turn and hearing their raging expression through xbox live makes me 
 laugh in amusement. Project Gotham Racing 3 brings what no other racing game can... pure excitement.
 
  
  Pros:
  The style of this game is soo sleek, soo sexy. The graphics are amazingly gorgeous. Every car made 
 to look spectacular (even the pathetic mini cooper) . The sense of speed is nothing like the other 
 two Project Gotham games. You actually FEEL FAST now. The inside view of the car is as realistic 
 as you can get to being inside a million dollar car. Unfortunately no one can be told of what the 
 feeling is, you have to experience it for yourself. The difficutly is set just right as well. Drifting 
 is not so hard that it's frustrating (Gran Turismo) , but not so easy its a joke (Ridge Racerrrr) . 
 For the solo missions anyone, from a female asian driver who cant steer for crap in real life, 
 to the next Michael Shumacher can enjoy this game because the difficulty range is so large. Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 has the style to make you feel like a connisseour, tasting all types of horsepower.
 
  
  Cons:
  The kudos system is pointless and retarded. You can get a million kudos poitns and still lose the 
 race so whats the point. If you race in style and skill of course you'll get first place and look 
 good doing it. The kudos system is what holds me back from giving this game a 10 in gameplay. The 
 sound is also quite... mellow. Yes the roar of the Shelby GT500 is monsterous, but I just don't 
 quite feel the rage within the machine. One may think "well depends on your speaker setup". Ok... i 
 have a 8.2 home theater setup using ProAc and Westlake speakers (look up ProAc and Westlake) . 8.2 
 means 1 center speaker, 2 side main speakers, 4 surround speakers, 1 rear center speaker, and 2 
 subwoofers. My subwoofer has caused the cops to come to my house to keep me from "disturbing the 
 peace". The screen is a 187 inch NEC projector at 1080p. WIth all that i sitll say the sound is 
 mediocre.... shame on you BIzarre. 
  
  Overall:
  i cant get enough of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan-117-13
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3
  Genre: Race-Simulatie
  Publisher: Bizarre
  Platform: Xbox 360
  Door: Niek
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the best racing game at the moment aldus Bizarre, 
 oke toegegeven ze hebben al vaker aangetoond dat ze in staat zijn om een hele goede racing game 
 neer te zetten, kijken of het deze keer ook weer gelukt is.
  
  Anderen gaan meteen naar de career mode of gewoon op xbox live, dat kan natuurlijk maar ik heb 
 eerst quick race gedaan om een indruk te krijgen van het spel. Het valt gelijk op dat de stad niet 
 meer dood is wat wel het geval was bij de vorige delen, dit is een hele verbetering want als 
 er n nadeel was aan deel 2 dan was het wel dat de steden dood zijn. Je hebt in Project Gotham 
 Racing 3 (afgekort PGR3) ook weer steden maar omdat, dit een next-gen spel is verwacht je een overvloed 
 aan autos en steden, helaas is dit niet het geval.
  
  Het racen is opnieuw weer heel goed uitgewerkt, door Bizarre de autos voelen natuurlijk aan en 
 maken een realistisch geluid, elke auto maakt overigens ook een ander geluid en het snelheidsgevoel 
 zit goed als je nu met 300km/h over de weg raast dan flitst alles ook snel voorbij en een kleine 
 stuurfout is fataal. De vier steden in het spel zijn Las Vegas, New York, London en Tokio de gehele 
 Nurburgring is ook weer nagemaakt alleen kun je nu ook op verschillende stukken van de baan tegen 
 anderen racen zonder dat je het hele rondje moet racen. De lamborghinis zijn overigens vertegenwoordigt 
 in het spel iets dat in de vorige delen niet het geval was er zijn nu ook alleen maar exotische 
 bakken en geen golf of suvs meer, dit kun je toejuichen of vervloeken persoonlijk ben ik er wel 
 blij mee want ik vond de american muscle serie toch wel vrij irritant. Je kunt overigens de hele 
 career-mode uitspelen met 1 auto want de tegenstander past zich aan, aan de door jou gekozen auto.
 
  
  De moeilijkheidsgraden zijn goed uit gewerkt je hebt zes verschillende standen: steel, brons, zilver, 
 goud en platina. Steel en brons zijn gemakkelijk daar heb je geen kind aan, zilver is gemiddeld 
 dat is al iets uitdagender goud is al een echte uitdaging voor de gamer die bekend is met dit soort 
 spellen en platina grenst bijna aan onmogelijk, je kunt dus ongeveer dezelfde gevoelens verwachten 
 als je de hele career-mode wil uitspelen op platina als legendary bij halo, bereid je dus voor 
 op een scheldpartij. Er zit nu een map-editor bij maar daar moet je, je zeker niet teveel van voorstellen.
 
  
  Al met al vind ik PGR3 weer een racer van hoogstaand niveau, ik had alleen meer verwacht van Bizarre 
 ik snap de keuze waarom ze minder steden en autos in het spel hebben gestopt dan ook niet echt, 
 daarom krijgt de game van ook een 90, alsnog heel goed maar ik had er toch meer van verwacht.
 
  
  +
  realistisch rijgedrag
  bijna foto realistische auto's en banen
  
  -
  map-editor gewoon bedroevend
  te weinig auto's en steden voor een next-gen game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  If you are a racing fan, get PGR3. If you like cars, get PGR3. If you like racing games with action, 
 twists, unique game modes, don't get PGR3.
  
  PGR3 is an oldschool racer. In the career mode, there are several trophies to win. Before each 
 race you can choose difficulty. If you go with easy, it IS really easy. The only way to get some 
 challenge is if you choose 'Hard' at least. Hardcore is sometimes too hard, though.
  
  There are many race types, but only a few are really enjoyable. Classic race, overtake, coin challenge, 
 drift challenge, time trial... and many more.
  
  But honestly, it's nothing extra. There are too many drift and time trial challenges. More race 
 would have been better.
  
  Anyhow, there are city and nuburgring races. City races are most of the time pretty boring. 3 locations: 
 London, New York, Las Vegas. There's no traffic, you can't leave the race track aswell. There's 
 no free roam mode... but there's a route creator, however, you have VERY limited creativity there.
 
  
  Nurburgring is fun, at least. Several sprint and circuit routes. Gotta love the german.
  
  Graphics... the best looking race game. The cars are incredible, they are so pretty, they wanna 
 come off the screen. THe enviorment is good too, however, not as great as the cars. But what's 
 amazing is the dashboard view. The only complaint I have is the incompatibility with 1280x1024 
 VGA resolution. To people like me who use monitor to play, well, that resolution is the best. Plus, 
 on my 5:4 17' TFT 1024*768 looks crappy.
  And I should mention that with some cars in dashboard view, the painting on the sides of the windshield 
 is a little pixelated. Nothing big, just a little annoying.
  
  The controls are fair, arcadish, though the cars react a little too quick , after playing NFS and 
 FlatOut, it's hard to get used.
  
  There's online career mode, where you can play the same challenges as in offline career, the only 
 diff is that you play with human oppenents.
  
  Overally, PGR3 is good, not revolutionary, no.. not at all. It's missing free roam, real challenges (no 
 weather change for example..) .
  
  One more note: There's content on XboxLive! which you can download. Content contains several cars. 
 It's a great idea, however, y ou gotta pay for it... That's bad. I paid 60euro, I don't wanna pay 
 anymore... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subyman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Fast cars and next-gen graphics, what more could be asked for from the first real next-gen racing 
 game. The PGR series is well known for it's quirky play style, wonderful line up of cars, and killer 
 soundtracks. This latest version takes that a step further by introducing breath taking graphics 
 and a ton of online features to make this the greatest iteration yet. From hardcore race junkies 
 to casual gamers, this game appeals to all.
  
  Graphics:
  Fast paced and slick are great descriptors of the graphics in the game. The modeling detail on 
 the cars sets a new standard for the racing genre. From the smallest detail, such as manufacturer's 
 emblems on the rims, to the reflections on the freshly waxed paint as the car is flying through 
 the city, this game delivers the eye candy. All though it packs all these details, shaders, and 
 lighting into the graphics engine, it does not end up looking like gaudy like the NFS series has 
 become. 
  
  I have not experienced one slow down or other graphical error that usually plagues launch games. 
 This game was not rushed and it shows. The tracks are wonderfully detailed. I always see something 
 new every time I run a track, they are just packed with goodies to look at. The crowds add another 
 level of realism to the game as well. It actually feels like I am driving this car at breakneck 
 speeds down an urban city race track. The graphics can be seen in all their glory in the walk around 
 garage mode. This mode lets the player assume the first person perspective and casually stroll 
 throughout the garage and view the cars stock piled throughout the game. Has to be seen to believe.
 
  
  Game play:
  Like the previous games in the series, it is hard to stick a descriptor on the type of racer this 
 game is. It is not a pure simulation but it is definitely not a full blown arcade game. It combines 
 the best of both genres to produce are fun game that anyone can enjoy. The simulation fan will 
 appreciate the car model detail and great in game physics while the arcade junky will love the 
 kudos system and fast paced action. 
  
  What sets this game a part from others is the Kudos system. When engaged in a race the player gets 
 rewarded with Kudos after performing "style" maneuvers such as drifting, drafting, and getting 
 on two wheels. The move "tricks" that can be strung together the more Kudos are rewarded. The faster 
 or more daring tricks are also rewarded with a higher level of Kudos. These add up throughout the 
 race, are tallied at end, and added to the player's overall career Kudos score. These can be compared 
 to other players all over the world through Xbox live. The higher the Kudos the player has the 
 more features are unlocked.
  
  The career mode of this game is feature packed and doesn't get repetitive like a lot of racers 
 these days. It is set up as a series of trophy cup races. Each individual race has 5 difficulty 
 levels with increasing credits awarded. Once all the races in a cup series is won a trophy is awarded 
 along with credits used to buy more cars for use in career mode. The types of races are extremely 
 diverse. They range from standard race against AI races to cone challenges to speed trap races. 
 There are over 10 different race styles and all are very unique.
  
  A great part about this game is the after release support the developers are giving to it. It is 
 constantly updated with new patches and content packs have been released. So far two have been 
 put on the market place, they are call Style and Speed. Each give around 10 new cars are cost 5 
 dollars to download.
  
  Sound:
  The sound in this game is incredible. To truly experience this game to it's full potential a surround 
 sound system is needed. The engine sounds are spot on as are the ambiance sounds. The crowd can 
 even be heard while flying by at crazy speeds! What really sets this game apart from other racers 
 is the incredible soundtrack. From well known techno Djs such as Aphex Twin to great rock songs, 
 this game delivers! One great feature about the 360 is the option to play the user's own songs 
 directly streamed from the user's computer. This system is integrated wonderfully in PGR3.
  
  Overall:
  This game provides 20+ hours of racing content and well over 40+ hours to get all 
 modes unlocked. Combine that with the player matching and on line career mode for many many hours 
 of great racing fun. This game is a must have for anyone picking up a Xbox 360. It is THE staple 
 of 360 racing and arguably the best racer on consoles comparable to the GT series. The game is 
 now getting down to the 30 dollar range which makes it even more enticing! Get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lotr_2003
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the sequel to the great racing game that came out on the Xbox a couple 
 years ago. Being a launch title game on the Xbox 360, Project Gotham Racing 3 will thrill any racing 
 fan into driving a wide variety of exotic licensed cars while keeping its realistic feel.
  
  The gameplay elements feels a lot like its predecessor, Project Gotham Racing 2, and added 
 several new elements to it's franchise. This game offers a single player campaign where you encounter 
 several types of races such as generic racing, eliminators, speed challenges and cone challenges. 
 In every race, you can execute special maneuvers with your car and earning points called kudos. 
 Kudos can be compared to standard money currency which can be used to buy new cars and stock them 
 in your expanding garage. By completing several sets of races, you earn trophies and there are 
 a total of 23 trophies to earn in this game. 
  
  In multiplayer, you have the choice to do an online career where you do different types of races 
 for different classes of cars. The more races you win, the more your rank will go up in the leaderboards. 
 If you are not into ranking, you can always play the standard multiplayer races which are similar 
 to the single player races but lets you play with real players. A new element they've added to 
 the multiplayer is Gotham Tv. Gotham TV is a real show broadcast of other races in the game. You 
 can select what race you want to watch of the available races being held on xbox live. Whenever 
 there is a tournament hosted by the creators of this game, you can also watch it live on Gotham 
 TV. 
  
  The graphics in this game are stunning and looks realistic while keeping attention to the details 
 in the environment and most importantly, the cars. Players will see a great graphical upgrade from 
 its predecessor on the Xbox while satisfying your eyes on this great looking game. For instance, 
 while driving, you can turn your right thumbstick around and truely see how they did a great job 
 with the drawing distance in the environment. Everything around you looks real and smooth.
  
  The sound will once again be as realistic as PGR2 and each car will respect it's real engine 
 sound. There is great attention to the sounds of a car accelerating, the sound of others approaching 
 behind you and even the translation of sound when approaching a nearby building or gateway. 
  
  Overall, this racing game takes real care of detail and realism. If you are a racing fan, you 
 will truely enjoy this game and it has great value. There is a lot to be done in this game and 
 that will keep you're days busy while racing in this realistic world of Project Gotham Racing 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inapprope
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  This is the second game I got for 360 and after playing it I was thoroughly impressed. Firstly, 
 the graphics, woah. The cities look so amazing, cruising around Las Vegas or Tokyo at night has 
 a tendancy to send chills down my spine. I'd crash and miss turns so many times because I was using 
 the right analog stick to look at the environment around me and just sit there yelling "NO WAY!"
 
  
  Sound is pretty great too, decent soundtracks with lots of choices. Gameplay is great, feel of 
 the cars is really good. The only thing that I didn't like as much was the shortness of the Solo 
 Career. But then again there are so many other things to do with the other modes and online play 
 that it will keep me busy for a while and I will definately get a lot of replay value out of this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nashdogg10
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  When i got PGR3 i wasnt sure if i would like it or not. Since im not a huge realalistic racing 
 game fan, this game just didnt do it for me. The graphics are excellent and so is the sound, but 
 the gameplay just gets old after a while. All of the drift challenges and cone stuff was just boring. 
 I put around 15 hours into this game but in the end it just got repetitive and i never felt like 
 playing it anymore. So overall, if you are a realalistic racing game fan, go for it because it 
 has everything you could ever want. If your not, try to stay away from it and save your 60 bucks 
 for another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightsaber8972
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Though the beginning of the game is VERY simple, later on in the game, it gets as tough as maybe 
 ... learning how to play fable without any help ... i guess ... any way the graphics are SUPERB 
 on a scale from 1 - 100 maybe a 95, great graphics, slow game, expensive for the type but OH BOY
 
  
  THE SOUND FROM THE GAME SOUNDS LIKE YOU ARE REALLY WATCHING THE RACE OR RACING IN THE RACE
  
 
  just to make the review longer
  
  Though the beginning of the game is VERY simple, later on in the game, it gets as tough as maybe 
 ... learning how to play fable without any help ... i guess ... any way the graphics are SUPERB 
 on a scale from 1 - 100 maybe a 95, great graphics, slow game, expensive for the type but OH BOY
 
  
  THE SOUND FROM THE GAME SOUNDS LIKE YOU ARE REALLY WATCHING THE RACE OR RACING IN THE RACE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lghtsbr
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 6, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  PGR has always made great racing games since PGR1. Now with 3, the newest in the series, it offers 
 the same racing style fans have come to love. The cars are all done remarkably well, and the graphics 
 are to die for.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is mostly the same with a few small changes but overall still the same solid 
 gameplay. 10/10
  
  Graphics- Theres no need for me to say, but the graphics are the most realistic for a racing game 
 on the 360. The cars shine and shadow perfectly, especially in the new "Walk Around Garage" mode. 
 10/10
  
  Sound- An odd assortment of music, but a great one none the less, and the car sounds are fantastic. 
 9/10
  
  Value- The best racing game I've ever played! Will keep you playing for hours, and on LIVE! 10/10
 
  
  My tilt on this is a 10! This game is great, fun, and fast. Plus who can resist racing in the steeringwheel 
 view? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sausn2002
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  When I first picked up this title, I thought it would be some mediocore sequel to another racing 
 game and woudn't live up to games like Gran Tourismo and Forza Motorsport. Come to find out that 
 even though PGR3 is not as "simulated" as GT and Forza, it is much more fun while having just enough 
 realistic driving in it. Whats makes this game unique, original, and more fun than alot of simulated 
 driving games is the fact that it has a "kudos" system where in addition to racing, you have to 
 pull off some stylish moves such as drifting, propping your car on two wheels, and even catching 
 some air! 
  What got me good because I've never went online with my game systems until this game, is how tremendously 
 fun this game is online. I recently bought the headset too, so just like the internet, webpages, 
 and blogging; this game is like a whole new community in itself. Because of the online component, 
 it brings a whole new style of play to me. I love the fact that I have to practice and increase 
 my skill so I can make a name for myself and become "the best". When you become the best, people 
 can watch you on "Gotham TV", which with how evolved the graphics are, makes it just as great looking 
 as real TV.
  On top of that, the Xbox Live always has new content to download, so even though the game has about 
 80 cars (which is minimal compared to alot of driving games) , you can download new cars online 
 to increase the collection of cars on the game. Even though there are only about 80 cars (which 
 is enough) , they are only the cars you care about. Who wants to drive the average affordable car 
 that only goes to a top speed of 120mph, and has a 0-60 time of 7 seconds? In this game you drive 
 the Ferraris, Lamborghinis, and some of the most desired cars, like BMWs.
  The in-car view is what makes this game shine the most. You can see the interior, steering wheel, 
 ect. of the car and look around while driving. You actually have to "look up" at the rear view 
 mirror while driving if you want to see whos behind you. 
  On top of that, this game has the best detail in graphics I've ever seen. When in the "in-car" 
 view, you can actually see dust gathering on the windshield of the car, and even see light reflecting 
 across it whether it be the sun or the headlights from a car behind you at night. This alone is 
 enough immersion to keep me dreaming forever.
  This game is easy to get through on the solo campaign, but if you get this game, it will truly 
 shine through the online play. After getting through the solo campaign and increasing your skill 
 and competitiveness, you will be able to go up against the "world's best" on the online career 
 mode, where you have a chance to scale the ranks to be able to enter such things as tournaments, 
 ect (you can go on the online career mode before you beat the game too) .
  I recommend this game to anyone that likes racing games period.
  If you haven't picked up a Xbox 
 360 yet, wait till they come out with the bundle that comes with this game. It will be well worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  The Project Gotham Racing series has been around for a while, starting out on the first Xbox. Now, 
 the third one in the series has arrived to the Xbox 360, Microsoft's Next-Gen console, and it simply 
 breaks the barrier and puts a new standard for racing games.
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 offers a lot of varied styles of play, and many cars to choose from. No 
 matter if you've only got a few minutes to play before going somewhere, it will fulfill your needs. 
 You can simply start a quick race with the AI cars, choose your own car, and their cars, race track, 
 day or night and so on. The game simply offers a lot of different things from you to choose from, 
 to make your race special and something you haven't really tried before. You've also got the opportunity 
 to 'Race Against the Clock'. This is simply what it sounds like, that you have to set the best 
 time. It offers a lot of challenge and you might just set a certain time that you want to reach.
 
  
  And of course, there's also the Gotham Career. This was the playtype I started out with, when I 
 first got the game. You'll participate in a lot of racing events to improve your current ranking 
 in the game. There's a lot of different cups and events to choose from, and each have a minimum 
 of two races. 
  Not only will you be playing the normal 'Street Race', but also others such as 'Cone Challenge', 
 which in my opinion is the hardest.. Sometimes.
  There's a good number of cups, and it changes from one playtype to another, so you'll experience 
 something new each time.
  
  The offline ranking system is quite simply. You earn Kudos by performing moves such as Power Slides, 
 Drafting, Drifting and you can also complete your fastest lap. After earning a certain amount of 
 Kudos, you gain a new rank. And also, by gaining Kudos you can unlock new cars.
  The higher rank you are, the more Kudos you will of course need before gaining a new rank. Starting 
 from the few thousands of Kudos, to hundreds of thousand of Kudos. I haven't even reached Rank 
 1 yet, but I plan to do so sometime. But trust me, you'll be spending a lot of time racing if you 
 want to reach Rank 1 and unlocking all the cars.
  
  While the offline actually offers a lot of playtime and things to do and unlock, there's a major 
 focus on the online as well. Keep in mind that you need Xbox Live Gold to play the game online, 
 but it's money well spend.
  Online, this game offers a lot. An online career mode, which is very similar to the offline career, 
 except you are of course racing against other players. You'll choose from one of the many types 
 of tracks and car classes that you'd want to race, and then wait for more players to join you. 
 Once you're set, the race will be started. The online career also offers ranking. This doesn't 
 unlock new cars though, but simply a higher rank in the online career, and your rank will be displayed 
 when you're in the lobby system.
  
  But the online career isn't everything. There's also simple player matches online. You can create 
 a race, or join a race already going on. There's a lot of different types of races here too, and 
 recently a new one was added with an update for the game. 
  To find a race, you can simply quick search for one. It will find one quickly and put you directly 
 into it.
  Of course, you can also set options that the race will need to fulfill. Such as a car class, manual 
 or automatic transmission and so on. (This is very similar to Halo 2's Matchmaking.)
  When the search is finished, it will then display a list from you to choose from. It also shows 
 the latency (Connection) , how many players, what city they're racing in and useful information 
 like that.
  
  There's also tournaments in the game, and you'd almost always find a tournament ready for you to 
 join. Of course, they only choose a number of racers that may join. So you'll need to drive a track, 
 and make it under a certain time. If you make it to the tournament, you'll later have to go online 
 and race against the rest of the players who made it into the tournament.
  
  Well, enough about that! There's also the Gotham TV! Here you can see the Heroes Channel, that 
 shows you the best online PGR3 racers. Good luck making it onto that, as it might prove to be a 
 bit tough.
  There's the Tournament Channel, where you can watch any Tournaments going on right now, if there 
 is any. If you have some friends on your friendlist who is currently playing PGR3, you can see 
 what they're doing by choosing the 'Friends Channel'. You can also watch your saved replays in 
 here.
  
  And now to my, somewhat, favorite part of this game - Photos.
  You can look at all of the photos you've saved right here, or delete them if you don't like them 
 after all. You can even upload them, and then share them on the internet via the official website!
 
  This option to upload was given only a while back, and I personally thinks that it gives a lot 
 for you to do. Catch the perfect picture, and then show it to your friends or wherever you'd want 
 to show it. 
  Taking photos is also really easy. You simply press Start during a race, and choose the last option 
 in the Pause Menu. Then you'll be able to take a Photo anywhere on the track, and then add some 
 effects to it to make it look even cooler! No photo will be the same!
  
  Coming from the awesome Photo Mode, we go to the controls.
  Controlling the car will take some 
 time to get used to, that's why I set the learning curve to 1-2 hours. The controls are basicly 
 perfect set up, and you can easily look back, or change gears while keeping your fingers on the 
 triggers for speed and brake. 
  But the cars handle differently, and that's what makes it challenging. If you really like a car, 
 then you'd spend a lot of time to make that corner perfect and so on. 
  The triggers are perfect for what the do. The right trigger is used for speed, and the left is 
 used for brake. The reason they're so perfect assigned is that you can choose to only press the 
 trigger in 75%, and you'll drive that bit slower, and might perform better around the corner. This 
 wouldn't be possible if you were using the A button for speeder. You may of course set the A button 
 for speeder, and you can basicly customize it any way you want, but triggers is, in my opinion, 
 the best thing you can use for speeder & brake.
  
  The sound in this game is.. Awesome. I don't really think it could get any better. The cars sound 
 very real life like, even though I have to admit that I haven't heard most of them in myself, but 
 they sound utterly amazing.
  And the soundtrack, it's actually good.. It offers a lot of mixed music for any taste, and fits 
 the game somewhat perfectly.
  
  In Project Gotham Racing, there are of course the well known and highly addictive system: Achievements. 
 
  PGR3's achievements really puts you up for a challenge, though some are rather easy like Exotic 
 Car Club. You'll be awarded with that by simply adding some cars to your collection. But, there 
 are some really hard ones. To earn the Style Racer Badge, you need to perform a lot of moves in 
 one race, and the moves ain't that easy. But if you're set up to do this, and you're nicely experienced, 
 then it is possible to do it.
  There's also the Platinum Champion. To unlock this, you need to complete the offline career on 
 the hardest difficulty.. And by hardest, I mean almost impossible especially as a new racer.
  
  The graphics of Project Gotham Racing is simply.. Amazing, stunning, beautiful. I play this 
 game on a SDTV, and even though then this game is one of a kind. It's one of the first games released, 
 and the graphics is still as good as the games being released right now, if not better. Of course, 
 the Xbox 360 haven't been out for a long time, but the graphics of PGR3 will remain some of the 
 best for a very long time.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best, if not the best, racing games I've ever tried. 
  It offers 
 a lot of things for you to do, and even more if you have an Xbox Live Gold membership. If you're 
 doubting if you should or not to get Xbox Live Gold, simply because this is your only game you'll 
 be able to play online, then it's still well worth it. You'll meet a lot of nice guys online, but 
 be aware that some people gets pissed of easily. Even if you hit them on slightly, and it's mostly 
 their fault they spin around, they might just report you. But hey, just ignore them and play nicely. 
 After all, it's not about winning, but simply about having a good time. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DC31
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first got my 360, I had no money for 360 games, yes 400 is a lot of money, therefore I played 
 Forza and it was great. While I had a good time playing Forza I began wondering what game should 
 I get as my first official XBOX 360 game. Three days ago I finally had enough money to buy PGR3, 
 and let me tell you it is perhaps one of the best racing games I have played, to me it is only 
 second to another Microsoft product, Forza. The game features mind-blowing graphics and an interior 
 view that just makes think for a while, that you have these cars personally. The cities you race 
 in are basically the same as their real world counterparts and you are there when you race. The 
 selection of vehicles, though "small" (you get over 100 when including the packs) , contains the 
 best engineering humans have ever done. This is portrayed well in the game by the developers. Music 
 is fun, maybe not to all people, but it has variation which is good. The sound of the cars is nice 
 too. The list of the pros keep going and going but there isn't enough space. The cons of this game 
 are so minute only the biggest nit-picker will be annoyed. To me this game isn't as realistic as 
 Forza, but then again it isn't meant to be, so if you want an extreme realistic game this is not 
 for you. I dislike the fact that you can only change the color, and some physics seem unrealistic, 
 and if you ask me the wheels of the cars seem to large. Otherwise this game is perfect. Go out 
 and buy it you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  The PGR series has never dissapointed, and its seems with each new one to come out, more get improved 
 upon. PGR 3 definately got improved. Not only does it sport gorgeous graphics, but it holds its 
 own in the gameplay department as well. 
  
  As with all PGRs, they steer away from the more real life simulator such as Gran Turismo, and offers 
 you more of an arcade racer that adds a mixture of simulation as well. Instead of earning your 
 cars and starting off with a garbage Honda Civic hatchback, you start off with something more along 
 the lines of a mustang or a corvette and make your way up from there. The game rides beautifully, 
 and handles well. No car in this game is far too difficult to handle or even to get a hang of. 
 What this game added as you can tell is the amazing detail into the surroundings. Most games will 
 mainly focus on putting all their effort into detailing simply just the cars, but Bizarre Creations 
 went the extra mile and put an amazing work of detail into everything. For example, look at the 
 buldings you fly by and look at the crowd. It all seems alive. And theres no way you can play this 
 game without playing the cockpit view. The detail in all the cars interiors are superb, and the 
 little things in there that you notice (for example, the smuges on the windshield) all make it that 
 much more realistic.
  
  The Kudos points return to unlock cars for you by earning a certain amount, and you'll be buying 
 exotic cars you never see in real life with all the credits you earn in races. Plus, when you buy 
 cars, they all get stored in your garage and the more you buy, the more garages you'll own. The 
 garages all interactive and can literally walk around the garage and look at your vehicles as well 
 as jump on the arcade and play both Geometry Wars. And as always, you can take it to the streets 
 of Live and race people around the globe. And theres even a mode called "Gotham TV" that lets you 
 spectate other people's races all in real time. The game is just a work of art, and is alot more 
 forgiving than the more real life simulators. Its pure fun that should not go without being noticed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scortech
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  I just got my 360 yesterday and I was 
  like a kid waiting for christmas when hooked up my 360..
  Since I am into racing games.. My first 
 choose for a game for my new console I was going for PGR3.. I fired up the game after I finished 
 configuring my HD tv and settings and stuff within 360.. When I fired up the game and started playing 
 .. And man .. WTF??? on the car and on other stuff in the game I can see jagged edges.. WTF?? One 
 of the reasons I went for 360 is because it has AA.. Well there is NO AA in PGR3:- ( Is every game 
 on 360 like this??? I am soooo disappointed..
  
  Sorry for my bad english.. Hope you guys can read this... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skatefreak89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a review of one of the best racing games, and the best racing game i've ever played.
  
  First of all the single player. It is a great singleplayer just bucause there is no story or 
 something which can get bored really fast. I have played the singleplayer a few times and it still 
 isn't boring, most of all because it is challenging. the graphics are good and the gameplay is 
 great. The updates made it even greater. 
  
  The multiplayer
  The multiplayer is the strongest thing of the game. this is endless fun. I bought it on the realease 
 date and I still play it with friends. In the last update they made a Cat and Mouse game in it. 
 I thing that was a good addition, just talking, crashing, laughing. It is one of the most social 
 games on the 360, strongly because it is easy to drive and talk (and because most people crash 
 all the way) . Driving alone is much less interesting than to play with a whole lot of your friends. 
 A good thing is the leaderboards, it is so broad. every race of the singleplayer, every track, 
 every time you set is being saved on a leader board, a very very good thing
  
  Achievements
  The achievements are one of the best. they are easy enough to get the most of them, 
 but it is really hard to get them all. Last week I finally got every race on platinum, I did about 
 6 months to get it. Looking at gameclips of other racers really work.
  
  PGR is a pretty glitchfull game, especially the achievements. First it was impossible to get the 
 Online racer badge, which was fixed after the update. Now it is impossible to get the medal achievements. 
 I have the badge but I don't have the achievement for platinum. And I have heared more things about 
 not geting achievements on medals.
  
  + Keeps interesting
  + Great gameplay
  + Amazing multiplayer
  
  - Glitchfull (and the reason why it didn't get a 10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360FREAK
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  This was the game I got at launch for my x360, For a first impression it really amazed me at what 
 the console could do. The online is where this game shines mainly because there aren't any cheaters 
 (yet) . I also really like all of the online and offline game modes. If you have an x360, this is 
 the racing game to have. The soundtrack and engine sound are awesome too. Listening to j-pop while 
 racing in the \McLaren F1 LM is really fun. The graphics in this game really show off what the 
 x360 is capable of, even if you have an SDTV (like me) it lools great. The value for me was very 
 high because off the online. This is a must have for any x360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golfer13last
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 24, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Well, I must say that at first (first month) of this game was OK but didn't do much else for me. 
 If your looking for a racing game then get somthing like test drive unlimited which is coming out 
 in the fall. THe good thing about test drive is you can free rome, ya can't do this on pgr3. But 
 if your looking for a game for god customization don't get this one it greatly disapointed when 
 i relized it didn't. But a game called forza 2 is coming out in the fall somtime and i strongly 
 suggest that. Because fora motor sport was fantastic so i expect nothing less when forza 2 comes 
 out.
  BOTTOM LINE  
  Or if you are a hard looking gamer who only wants the best ----- Forza 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  -------
  Excellent cars, excellent graphics, smooth frame-rate, comes with full versions Geometry Wars 1 
 and 2, great ranking system and awards.
  
  Cons:
  --------
  Online is really complicated and tedious.
  
  Smooth gameplay, excellent graphics, real 5.1 
 sounds and one hell of a racing game, PGR3 is one of the best racing simulations ever. There are 
 3 racing sim masters NFS: MW, Burnout Revenge and PGR3. NFS offers freeform driving and has the 
 most STREET feel. Burnour has destruction and ace replays, and has the most DESTRUCTIVE feel. And 
 PGR3 has all the real racing, and has the most WOAH LOOK AT THOSE GRAPHICS feel. The cras hold 
 most of PGR3's reputation, but the background areas hold pretty much all the rest, perfectly depicting 
 London, Tokyo, Las Vegas and all that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igl
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  First of all: It looks fantastic, the car models and reflections are great. The tracks and environments 
 are build with loving detail and are well textured. The sound effects are great, and you have a 
 decent collection of music.
  (There is good music among it, not only the Sony/BMG-chosen top10)
  
  PGR3 is harsh with you, 
 it clearly tries to be more simulation than arcade racing.
  Driving off the track gives you a noticeable penalty, so its clearly about mastering the track, 
 being prepared for bumps and sharp curves to hit the break at the right time and length.
  
  The single-player career is good, it offers quite a lot challenges with all the racing modes you 
 can think of.
  There are quite a bunch of great cars for you to get (Yes! no nissan skyline crap *highfive*) , 
 but i found it disappointing that there isn't much work to do unlocking them, basicly you have 
 most of the best cars at your disposal after a few wins for money. And thats basicly where PGR 
 let me down.
  You pretty much find your favorite cars quickly and then you don't even see much reason to unlock 
 the few concept cars who are left, which don't even have a superior performance. I'm surly playing 
 until i get the last RUF Porsche just to have it in the collection, but there isn't really enough 
 to achieve to be greatly addicting.
  
  Another disappointing matter is the effectivness of pushing your opponent of the track or leaving 
 him behind spinning.
  Of course you can turn collusion off, but then it's not the real thing again and you could also 
 just drive a time trials without opponents on the track.
  
  Also i noticed some issues with the analog capability of the 360 controller, it doesn't seem to 
 react that nice and smoothly as expected.
  I can't make out if it's the mechanical withstand of the sticks at slight movements, or just the 
 game not reacting that realisticly.
  I would expect to be steering more slightly on higher speed, but i always find myself just tapping 
 the stick to it's max amplitude.
  Everything else just ends up beeing to less, feels not sweet calibrated. Also the upper triggers 
 for gas and break don't seem to react below 50% pressed. Maybe im just beeing picky but it leaves 
 a awkward taste to me.
  
  At last I have to mention that this game has the complete 35-KM Nrburgring, which isn't only the 
 most interesting track ever build, It's the most beautiful and detail-rich track in this game.
 
  My main PGR3 activity is racing my mates on this track with some nice drift-capable car. Superb. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost_Warrior
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham 2 was a great follow-up to the original PGR and PGR 3 does the same here. In fact, 
 its the best PGR to date. 
  
  What immediatly catches my eye are the graphics. Stunning is an understatement. Defiantly one of 
 the best, if not the best graphics on the 360. The cars and tracks have unprecidented realism that 
 take your breath away. I will find myself looking at my car from all angles while on straight-aways 
 just to admire its beauty. 
  
  But this game isn' t just for show. The gameplay has improved from PGR 2 but those that have played 
 PGR 2 will notice it is very similar. It is easier however and you should have no problem getting 
 the hang of the game. If your new to PGR or a veteran, the 5 skill levels make it playable for 
 all skill levels. There are hundreds of cars to choose from and each run differently for the most 
 part so find the car thats right for you. The many different game modes and achievements also give 
 the game a lot of replay value. Not to mention Xbox Live. Although there aren't many differinces 
 in the online game modes, you'll still have a lot of fun playing with your friends or with others.
 
  
  So if your looking for a great racing game for the 360 look no farther. Defiantly worth purchasing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeokor
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 lets you pick up your dream car from a possible 80 and rip it around 4 
 cities and 1 race circuit in the coolest, fastest and most beautiful way I've ever seen.
  
  The graphics in game are stunning. The reflections on the cars shiny metal, the custom interior 
 unique to every car. Its jaw-dropping; and the locations are just the same, every corner is correctly 
 paced and scaled and is surrounding by the best looking buildings minus the real things. This is 
 a truly next-generation game, no doubt. The 'Photo' mode and 'Walk around garage' mode make the 
 machines look even more amazing- jump into these modes during races or just before when your friends 
 come round as it is here where the graphics are best.
  
  The single player career mode is a typical set of 23 championships with several races within each 
 championship; very similar to the classic Burnout career mode and the other Project Gotham games. 
 The races are set across London (The most impressive city) , New York, Toyko (The second most impressive) , 
 Las Vegas and the Nurburgring. While most of the races are against computer cars, there are a fair 
 share of Kudo challenges and time-trials. I personally hate time-trials, but these ones aren't 
 so bad. During this Career mode you earn Kudos and Coins to unlock or buy new cars but once you 
 have the plus 400,000 coin cars, the rest can be easy won, it is a flawed system.
  
  The game is not difficult except the Very Hard setting. Steel and Bronze medals have never been 
 so easy to get, the silver and gold medals are a bit harder, for the more experienced racers though 
 its all too easy. I've got all Gold medals or more (Platium= Very Hard Gold= Hard, Silver= Medium 
 etc;) . All the same, the career mode is still worth playing through but once you complete it you 
 can just slam around the last race on the Nurburgring and gain some 400,000 coins each time.
  
  Each car is different from the last (minus similar models) and its best if you play with each 
 of the 80 odd cars once to find your perfect match- mine is the Ford GT Mark I. And thats one of 
 the best parts of the game- the cars are different enough so online, pretty much everyone has a 
 different one. The controls while driving is also well-tuned and offers a great hand-brake.
  
  Multiplayer is huge and unlimited- create custom tracks around the cities, select your music 
 types, pick any of the 80 plus cars from the start, go online. Its great fun and the best part 
 of the whole game, its the part that you will probably still happily play in 6 or 12 months time. 
 I have no complaints here whatsoever. And online? Even better. There are pretty much no bad races 
 although there can be bad drivers (like all racing games) . Gotham TV can be a blast too, but I 
 prefer to play than just watch.
  
  Overall, this game is a great slice of racing perfection. From the little enviroment details and 
 the car engine tones to the fantastic online play and Photo modes. This is a must-have for racers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: booomer69
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Well i have had this game for 5 months now and i finnaly dicided to write a accurate review. This 
 game is highly addictive and highly realistic in graphics. This game aint to Forza remmember its 
 not as arcadey as Need For Speed but the drifting seems very unrealstic ( witch isint a bad thing 
 ) this game offers many good things and few bad things.
  ***Good Things***
  1.) Awesome Multiplayer
  2.) Fun for achivemenets
  3.) Plenty of cars
  4.) Cat and mouse :)
 
  5.) Viariy of game types.
  6.) Awesome leaderboreds
  ***Bad Things***
  1.) Everytime they release a new car download pack you have to get it sooner or later because then 
 it will be anoying to join a game just because somebody is using a "New" car.
  2.) You have to pay for the packs : (
  3.) Online carrer sucks and pepole cheat to get #1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewonthestraw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 9, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I bought PGR3 shortly after i purchased my shiny new 360. I really wasnt a huge racing game fan, 
 although i did play racing games from time to time.
  At first, PGR3 was a bit frustrating for me
  . I think i felt this way because it was sim like 
 controls in a slightly arcady racing game, but once i got used to it, i found the controls and 
 overall game mechanics to be ingeneous, and it also doesnt hurt for the graphics to be incredible, 
 except for a few barley noticable jaggies here and there.
  Another great thing about this game is how addictive it can get to buy and sell cars with your 
 hard earned tournamnent creds.
  THe kudos system is back again, which kind of dissapointed me. I know tht kudos have and always 
 will be a big part of the PGR universe, but i thought it would have been nice for the developers 
 to expand or redo this system in some way, shape, or form.
  THere is also a new view in PGR3 tht puts u in the car and really immerses u into te driving. I 
 really though that it was revolutionary, and should be a new standard for other racing games.
 
  THe sound in this game is definatly good, but not mind blowing. It features lots of diversety 
 in the sound track, and also has my personal favorite band, Death from above 1979. The tires sqeaaling 
 on the road really make you fell like your in control of the car, and engines sound almost near 
 perfection.
  TO me, PGR3 is the best racing game i have ever played ( next to diddy kong racing of course) and 
 i defently reccomend it to anyone tht is remotely intrested in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lwhite_10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Great Graphics & Gameplay, but gets boring after a while. Still worth buying
  Project Gotham Racing 4 Should be a Online Racer Like Test Drive Unlimited. Great controls that 
 actually require skill rather than just one joystick movement. If your looking for an arcade style 
 racer do not buy this if you are looking for a game that requires more practice and skill than 
 an arcade game then buy this. Great Range of cars but a more immersive career mode is required 
 and achievments are so hard to get its not worth your time to get just 50 gamerscore.
  
  Great Graphics & Gameplay, but gets boring after a while. Still worth buying
  Project Gotham 
 Racing 4 Should be a Online Racer Like Test Drive Unlimited. Great controls that actually require 
 skill rather than just one joystick movement. If your looking for an arcade style racer do not 
 buy this if you are looking for a game that requires more practice and skill than an arcade game 
 then buy this. Great Range of cars but a more immersive career mode is required and achievments 
 are so hard to get its not worth your time to get just 50 gamerscore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyb628
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is one of the best racing games I have ever played, it is a blast and shouldnt be missed. 
 It is the third game in the PGR series and is the only one I own, but I am not unfamiliar with 
 the series. This game is awesome.
  
  Story - Become the best racer in the game. By doing this you need to become the number 1 ranked 
 racer in the game.
  
  Graphics - Wow. When I first played this game, and the race was about to start 5...4...3...2...1, 
 I was looking at the car from all the different angles and thought holy **** look at that, but 
 then, the race actually started, and I realized those are IN GAME graphics, I was simply blown 
 away. However they do have some noticable jaggies and pop up in the beginning of the races, but 
 this game is simply beautiful.
  
  Gameplay - This game is a mix between sim racing and arcade racing. It has sim physics where you 
 can't just book it into a turn and expect to completely drift around the turn without hitting the 
 wall, but it also has some arcade elements mixed in where it is more forgiving than a sim so that 
 you can actually drift around corners with practice and precision. It would have been nice to see 
 some rain or weather effects to see how the cars would react to a slick road, but all in all the 
 gameplay is top notch.
  
  Sound - The sound in the game is great, the engines in the cars all sound noticabley different, 
 the roar of some of them sounds very nice with a nice sub woofer. The sound of the cars whizzing 
 by is very nice too. The music in the game is very different, it has some known music, but it also 
 has some unique songs too, it also has classical music which is one of my favorite genres to race 
 to. If you dont like the music there is always the option to play your own music which is nice.
 
  
  Length - The game has 4 difficulty setting where hard and hardcore, are, well, extremely hard, 
 they seem impossible but, like they say, practice makes perfect. There are many tracks to race 
 through, but there could have been a few more, it will take you maybe 4 hours to get through all 
 the races in each difficulty setting. However, in order to completely beat the gae you need to 
 be ranked number 1, which will take some time.
  
  Replay Value - As stated above, there are 4 difficulty settings making this game very easy to come 
 back to since the last 2 settings are very difficult. There is also 8 players on xboxlive which 
 makes for endless gaming since there is always a race going on.
  
  Overall - This is my most played xbox360 game out of the 5 that I own, it is one of the most fun 
 and I always come back to it. It is a fabulous racer that should not be missed. Do yourself a favor 
 and add this game to your xbox360 library, you will be glad you did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Padawan9135
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is a great game, but it has its share of flaws. It no longer has the radio announcer, and 
 it no longer requires you to play on single player to earn/unlock cars to play on multiplayer. 
 Also, all the cars feel the same. The graphics are great, but the sound isn't. You'll probably 
 have to lower your FX volume and raise your music volume just to hear anything but tires screeching, 
 and buttons being mashed. If you play this game, get ready to spin out and restart the race, a 
 lot. Definetly give this game try, especially if you didn't enjoy NFS: MW. A great game, that has 
 a great challenge, but still has some flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahzim
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Graphics : Although the graphics arn't a dramatic step up from the previous generation, they are 
 an improvement. While the in car view is nice and looks outstanding, I don't really play from that 
 view as I prefer the behind car view more.
  
  Sound : The wide array of cars all have relatively unique engine sounds and it does enhance the 
 gameplay. I actually found myself turning down the music so I could hear my tires braking and the 
 engine revs around turns. I haven't played many racing games where sound played a factor in how 
 well I was able to drive, which is a definite plus. 
  
  Music : This is one of the best soundtracks I've ever heard. From the dance tunes to the hard rock 
 tracks, the quantity and quality of the tunes are top notch.
  
  Value : Multiplayer is fun and adds to the value of the game. However as in most modern day racing 
 games I'm somewhat disappointed by lack of different locals to race in. While you can edit the 
 routes in each city, there's something to be said about a wide variety of racing environments. 
 However this seems to be a problem with just about every racing game these days so you cant really 
 detract from the game on that basis alone. 
  
  Game play : This is more of a racing sim then your standard arcade racer. Proper racing lines and 
 braking soundly are rewarded here. Its not by any means a pure sim, but it successfully manages 
 to blend arcade / sim style racing keeping the racing fun and challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremygordontx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 26, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  I like this game. In the world of subpar racing games, the physics and interactability and control 
 you have over your car gives you a great feeling of risk and reward - and ramps up the challenge 
 levels nicely. Great game.
  
  The only thing that I hate? I don't like vibration. It tickles my wrists. I don't know why. Maybe 
 I'm a freak. But how would you like your game to "tickle" you every time you crash. "Drives" me 
 crazy. Thus far, I have not found a way to turn off the vibration funciton in the game. 
  
  I can only stand so much tickling! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minesr34
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the 3rd installment for the series. With Project Gotham 1 and 2 being 
 probably 2 of the best racers on Xbox, it was only fitting that Project Gotham 3 was released with 
 the Xbox 360. Gotham 1 lacked cars to play with and was extremely difficult, Gotham 2 had 102 cars 
 which was a massive increase which was good and was also easier to get the grips of the game, but 
 got harder as u progressed. Gotham 3 doesn't have as many cars as number 2. But 80 cars is still 
 a lot. The first thing you notice about Gotham 3 is the massive increase in detail and graphics, 
 which is what i was expecting from Xbox 360. I then noticed that it was marginally smaller all 
 together than number 2. But then when i was going through races i decided to change view and i 
 found the most wonderous thing i have ever seen.... a fully detailed in car view. Now being a car 
 nut, i absolutly loved the idea, who can say they have driven a Lamborghini, Ferrari, Aston Martin, 
 Masarati and RUF at over 200mph on the Nurburgring, i cant tell you now not many people. Also the 
 lack of crappy little hatchbakcs and trucks and what not was also a pleasing surprise, as every 
 car in the game can go over 170mph. But it wasnt all Milk and cookies, the game being way smaller 
 than 2 was a let down as you finish it much faster and the lack of no endurance races was very 
 poor, the longest race was 4 laps and was an eliminator round. It is much easier than 1 and 2, 
 until you get upto the Platinum Medals which take extreme amounts of concentraiton and skills to 
 aquire 1, this brings back the Gothams series trademark difffculty level. All in all it is a bloody 
 good game and i love it, and i would recommned it to any car nut out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is a solid sim racer which everyone raves about. However, I fail to see what is so great about 
 this game. A number of annoying flaws and features that were taken away from this game make it 
 not too appealing.
  
  The graphics and environments look pretty nice, but there are a number of noticable jaggies on 
 the cars in all of the different views.
  
  Sounds in this game could have been done a little better. It does have a nice list of licensed 
 music, but a feature that was taken out in the series that should have been back in PGR3 was the 
 radio stations. Now songs just appear randomly while driving instead of a nice DJ talking for a 
 bit. A drawback is that all cars sound pretty much identical. Also, there is no crowd noice when 
 driving around a corner when the crowd would appear.
  
  The gameplay needed a little touching up to make this a great game. Mostly, all the cars feel exactly 
 the same. The problem is most of them handle like bricks. The control of these vehicles is somewhat 
 robotic. However, there are a select few which you will need to drive differently to control. Another 
 drawback is that these cars will feel exactly the same whether you are going 20mph or 120mph. That's 
 a shame. Another problem is that if you bump into a wall or slam into a wall going 160, your car 
 will not have any damage whatsoever. It won't have any scraped off paint or bumper damage or anything. 
 It will look just like you drove it out of the car lot. Somewhat odd, don't ya' think?
  
  There are plenty of courses which makes for a somewhat lengthy game, and it will be a challenge 
 to get some of the medals on platinum. Plus there is a well intergrated online career mode to add 
 to the mix. The problem with the online is most of the community. If you accidentily bump into 
 any of them, expect your reputation to drop dramitcally. There is no racing dirty unless they do 
 it to you. You try to be nice to these people, but then they purposely spin you out. You can't 
 tell who the bad ones are which ruins the online experience.
  
  PGR3 is a solid sim racer with some very annoying flaws which can ruin the experience for you. 
 I'd reccomend renting it and seeing if it is right for you before buying. Don't rush in and believe 
 the hype. Following the herd is not worth $60 in this case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: texter82
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  Very Very good. I think bla bl bla bla bla bla bla bla, you must bought the game. I can only say 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla. my english is not so good, so i can say only bla bla bla bla. 
 oh my god, what else can i say? bla bla bla bla bla bla. i must write 100 words? is this right? 
 i like the game, but i think platin is a little bit to difficult, also the slalom in gold. for 
 me it is too hard to become the kudos in gold. but now, i have nothing to say anymore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mecheye
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting to drive a ferrari f430 forever in the gaming world. The last ferrari i drove 
 was a F50 on Need For Speed years ago. I wanted another game to make a better racing game, because 
 as much as i loved Need For Speed and Underground and everything, they didnt quite cut it. Welcome 
 PGR3, the best racing game to date. It features more cars than you'll ever own, plus an increasing 
 list thanks to Xbox Live, and the graphics and audio to make a gearhead go nuts. The gameplay can 
 be a bit daunting, but in real life it would be the same deal. The fast cars take time to learn, 
 and the slow ones are easy, its just like life. The Koennigsegg is a beast to control, and the 
 Ferrari 360 might kill you if you push it. The game is great, and I will probably play it until 
 a new game with Ferrari's is more realistic and graphically better. Forza perhaps? We'll see. In 
 the meantime, this is the racing game to own for the 360, and it really is great fun, even if you 
 dont like cars. The online capabilities are great too, there's plenty to do whether your a pro 
 or just wanna tool around. I just wish there was driveable menu, and a actual garage to pull into, 
 and that you can customize or paint it or modify the parts. We'll see what the future holds, maybe 
 NFS will figure that out, if they can get more car companies on their side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogokun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  I first fell in love with this seiries in 2001 with Project Gotham Racing. It was the perfect blend 
 of simulation and arcade racing physics which made the cars unbelievably fun to drive. I played 
 the hell out of PGR2, which was more of a graphical upgrade (since I never utilized the online 
 play) but an outstanding title nonetheless. And now PGR3 has come... and beat the crap out of its 
 predecessors. They have finally perfected it. PGR3 is so fun that I excpect I will be playing for 
 months, maybe even years to come (given that I am planning to buy the online adapter) . My god, 
 the gamplay is so outstanding! The A. I. is incredible, giving you a real challenge when you want 
 it. The great thing about PGR3 is that you can select your difficulty for each race, allowing you 
 to find your niche and pick the difficulty that isn't too easy but isn't too hard either. I found 
 my niche at the hard difficulty, but I am starting to win most of the races, so I just might have 
 to trade over to Expert. The only thing that kept it from a 10 is the challenges, which are simply 
 a distraction to the real action, and aren't nearly as fun. My god, I've filled up nearly a page 
 and I haven't even mentioned the graphics. Believe me, they deserve to be mentioned. I'll say right 
 up front, this is the best looking game on the Xbox 360, period. The environments in this game 
 aren't environments, they're WORLDS. They even incorporated a right analog camera swivel which 
 can be used for strategic purposes as well as a tool to check out the graphics. And on an HD TV 
 this game is simply beyond words. This is the best looking game of all time. It beats everything 
 on other consoles, as well as PC's. Overall, this is the best of the 360 launch lineup, and worth 
 a purchase from everybody, even those who do not like racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunslingers
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game. The diving is very realicstice ( a ton more the most wanted) . The Graphics 
 are very impresive. The game has pretty good music and sound effects and what not. I will say that 
 this is a very hard racer. I you wan't one that is an easier arcade style racer, then go with need 
 for speed, but if you want a very relastic racer PGR3 all the way!!! The way the cars dirft in 
 that game is insane, it is so realistic. This game also has a ton more cars than Most Wanted. The 
 only down side is that you can't custimize the cars. Some let you change the color, but other than 
 that you can't custimize them like in Most Wanted. But I will say they lost a lot of custimzation 
 in most wanted, but it's still there. I would buy this, or at least rent it.
  
  -The Gunslingers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameranker319
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 17, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a really great game, there was no really bad flaws or anything wrong 
 with it at all. The only reason why I give it a 9.2 out of 10 is that I think it gets a little 
 repetitive. I love this game a lot but after playing career mode for a while it starts to get a 
 little flat. Anyways this game has great music on it, awesome game play, a great story, and awesome 
 controls. Also the cars in this game are great, because they look so realistic. All in all, this 
 game is a must buy for all xbox 360 owners... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andypak
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This game's graphic shows off the performance of XBOX 360 console. The control is very realistic. 
 However, there are some drawbacks. 
  
  - Poor menu interface, ugly and not easy to browse. 
  - No damage model. How come a realistic 
 driving without damage model? 
  - Too few cars. Only top sport cars are offered. However, I'd like to drive some less performance 
 cars say mini cooper, BMW 3 series, Benz C Class, etc, Fairlady Z. 
  
  Overall, I think this game only passes. It should be better. Wish Microsoft could do a better job 
 in Forza Motorsport. 
  
  Overall, I think this game only passes. It should be better. Wish Microsoft could do a better job 
 in Forza Motorsport. 
  
  Overall, I think this game only passes. It should be better. Wish Microsoft could do a better job 
 in Forza Motorsport. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer_marc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 16, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  I am one of the few who enjoyed the very first encarnation of this series MSR (Metropolis Street 
 Racer) back on the Dreamcast many years ago and even then I thought the series had potential and 
 when the Dreamcast finally met it's inevitable downfall I silently hoped that the series would 
 continue on another platform.
  
  Thankfully it made a solid transition to the Xbox under a different name but the core game was 
 still in tact and all the things that made the original MSR so much fun remained exactly as they 
 were. In the 3rd Project Gotham Racing the developers at Bizzare Creations moved the series up 
 a gear adding online play amongst a few other additions.
  
  The single player game is split up into multiple chapters each providing a different style of driving 
 experience as all the chapters feature set car styles be that US Muscle Cars, SUV's, European Hot 
 Hatchbacks or one of many other sets all the way up to the cream of the crop with the flashy supercars. 
 The car models in this game look nice with a limited but effective damage model, sadly the damage 
 is only cosmetic and has no effect on how the cars handle what so ever but still this does not 
 detract from the enjoyment. The environments are also very nicely detailed and set a good atmosphere 
 for the games tight winding city street style of racing instead of wide open tracks.
  
  The sound is nothing major as far as the effects are concerned the engine notes are only slightly 
 different on each car but it is enough to distinguish each from the other. The music however is 
 awesome, depending on what city you are racing in will determine what music you hear as it is set 
 up in a radio station format with DJ's talking over the songs and the music style being loyal to 
 the reigon, also the DJ's speak in their native language adding to the feeling of racing around 
 Tokyo, London or even Moscow.
  
  There are a few different styles of challenges that you will face during the single player portion 
 including straight forward street races, 1 on 1 races, cone challenges, time trials and even speed 
 camera speed limit challenges where you have to be above a set speed when you hit the camera zone. 
 The twist here though no matter what you are doing it is never about just driving as fast as you 
 can around the tracks, you have to drive with style powersliding, drafting and even getting good 
 air earn you kudos points which you need to earn to unlock and buy new cars from each chapter. 
 So aserll as placing in 1st place you need to score well on the kidos to progress well with new 
 and nice cars open to your use.
  
  Once you need a rest from the single player you can go onto Xbox Live and unleash your skills and 
 the cars you have unlocked in the single player against real people in a few forms of racing the 
 most fun of which being the kudos races where the person with the most kudos points wins the race 
 overall. If you dont have many cars unlocked though online there is a seporate and unique ranking 
 system which allows you to earn kudos to unlock cars from the same pool so you can use them in 
 both online and offline play which is a very cool feature because even online play helps you to 
 progress through the basic game and helps to get you new and better cars to get higher scores on 
 the challenges.
  
  This game is a blast especially online but it is nothing like a sim racer, it is a solid arcade 
 style but with the twist of the kudos system which adds another layer ontop of the basic driving 
 experience and in my honest oppinion this game should not be missed by anyone who does like driving 
 and racing games in any form. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liljon68O
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the day i got my 360 and i definitley made the right dicision by getting this game. 
 PGR3 has the best graphics for any title so far. What really make this game havea real life driving 
 experience is its in car view, when you're in that view, the engine sounds like a jet engine is 
 behind you (in certain cars) plus the interiors are modeled to the exact car in real life. The 
 kudos system is another great part of PGR3 (especially online kudos) . Online play is good but I 
 HATE PEOPLE WHO QUIT RACES JUST BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT THEIR RANK LOWERED. I also think there 
 could have been some more real tracks. The range of soundtracks are awesome, from classical to 
 hip-hop. The offline career for me could've been more for me because it didn't take me long to 
 finish.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Racing fans are spoilt for choice when it comes to racers on the 360. Arcade fans who prefer insane 
 powerslides will instantly gravitate towards Namcos Ridge Racer 6 while fans of simulated races 
 will go the other way, to PRG3.
  
  PGR3 adheres strictly to the if it aint broke, dont fix it school of thought. The additions 
 to the gameplay are minor at best and the core mechanics remained unchanged. The Kudos system, 
 a rating system that rates your flashy moves and gives you points for executing them without messing 
 up, returns but in a more beginner friendly version. Thats pretty good news for guys and gals 
 who thought the Kudos system was too unforgiving. While the old system cancelled your points that 
 havent been counted if you mess up, the new system wisely lets you keep them if you didnt make 
 a serious boo boo. What it means is that a gentle tap on the wall as youre coming out of turns 
 wont deduct the gimornous Kudos score you got from sliding out of the corner. YAY for progress!
 
  
  Fans of arcade racers, BEWARE! PGR is not for you. Sure, theres powersliding and stuff that youd 
 normally find in arcade racers but the gameplay is totally different. PGR3, like its predecessors, 
 is hard as hell. Coming from an arcade background, the game kicked my ass hundreds of times as 
 I got to grips with it. Mess up even once and the race may be over for you. Thats especially true 
 on the higher difficulties but it also applies to the lower ones as well. PGR3 is unforgiving, 
 either your bend to its will or it will break you.
  
  Online racing has been broken down into 2 separate parts: Online Career and Online races. Online 
 Career is similar to the normal offline career mode as rise through the ranks with successive wins. 
 Its recommended to play the Offline Career mode and get some cash first though as the Online career 
 mode uses cars from your personal career garage. Its a pain to play in the Online Career mode 
 though. There is barely anybody racing in the lower leagues. Ive waited for more than 10 minutes 
 to start a Class C and D race but NOBODY showed up. Hell, even the Class A races have a lack of 
 population. Thats not to say that nobodys playing PGR3 online though. The normal Online races 
 are usually packed with people and Ive never had a problem getting into a game. Lag is never and 
 issue, even with players from all over the world playing. People dont seem to like talking though 
 as nobody seems interested in holding a conversation the times I tried talking in the lobby. Silent 
 as they may be, most of the players are pretty well behaved and although there have been some that 
 seem to enjoy ramming others, most play fair and race well.
  
  The cars (a ton of them this time) handle as tight as youd expectwell, probably. I dont think 
 most of us (maybe even none?) can say with honestly that the cars control realistically as weve 
 (or rather Ive) never ridden let alone drove ANY of the cars ingame. Still, that doesnt mean 
 that you cant tell the difference between the cars. True, cars of a particular class tend to clump 
 together with similar statistics but compare different classes of cars and youll see and hear 
 the difference.
  
  Its a letdown that the game doesnt let you tweak and tune your cars though. Most of the things 
 you can do to your cars are merely cosmetic in nature and there really isnt any custom tuning 
 involve. While most people would probably never bother with tuning their cars in the first place, 
 serious gearheads will be up in arms as they dont have the option to customize their rides to 
 their personal liking.
  
  Sadly though, NONE of the cars can be wrecked. Ive always wondered why the developers didnt add 
 in destructible models. Sure, you got your nicely model cars, your photo realistic locales to drive 
 in and youre hyper accurate driving physics, but whatever happened to broken headlights due to 
 a close encounter with a wall? Built more like tanks than cars, the vehicles in PGR3 will never 
 deform in any way at allBummer.
  
  Other than that icky problem, the game is pretty solid graphically. In the previous games in the 
 series, youd get the feeling that youre racing through a deserted city since apart from the cars, 
 there isnt a damn thing on the sidelines. PGR3 has fixed that and now fans and race officials 
 can be seen standing at the sidelines as you race. Crash into them and theyll even recoil back 
 from fear. Pretty nice touch that.
  
  The draw distance has been dramatically increased too. During the long straightaways, you can see 
 far off into the horizon. Well, if youre racing. Funny thing is, the Photo Mode has some pop-up. 
 Yeah, its weird but I once had the top of Big Ben mysteriously fade out of existence as I moved 
 to take pictures of a race. When I got closer to it, the top mysteriously teleported back to its 
 original place. Weird but it doesnt detract from the main game, unless the whole reason you wanted 
 to get PGR was so you could snap some shots of Big Ben. Id suggest staying clear if you do though.
 
  
  Thank god though for the 360s ability to use your own songs as the background music. The games 
 soundtrack isfor the lack of a better word, weird. Theres Bhangra music (yes, Bhangra. No, Im 
 not joking) , theres some rock, a few techno tracks here and there, even some classical music. 
 I guess the song lists caters to a lot of different tastes but I dont get why Bhangra music is 
 inside. The developers expect the majority of their customers to be from India or something?
  
  Strange choice of music aside, some of the tracks are pretty awesome to listen tonot that 
 youd bother about them when youre in the thick of things though. When youre barreling down a 
 stretch of road in excess of 200km/h, music will be the last thing on your mind. 
  
  Even with its minor flaws, its still worth noting that that PGR3 is a solid buy. With only Ridge 
 Racer and NFS: Most Wanted as its genre competitors, simulation fans honestly have only ONE choice 
 on what to get. While RR and NFS are racing games, they sure as hell arent simulation based. Thankfully, 
 as the lone sim racer on the 360, PGR3 kicks ass.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedna
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  the best thing in this game is the graphics, what is also cool is that there are some interesting 
 driving events that takes you away from yust racing. it also features a garage mode where you can 
 walk around your cars and this too looks stunning. the racing is good but its too arcade and you 
 also earn too much money and this alows you too buy the best car early in the game, and really 
 whats the use. another low point is there is virtually no customising the ride at all.
  
  the game is good and enjoyable, but there isn't much more to the game than just racing and buying 
 cars. it lacks depth, but its not a complete failure it looks very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdbthexboxgamr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2001 the original Xbox launched with a game by the name of Project Gotham Racing. The game 
 featured beautiful graphics and featured alot of cars ranging from the VW Beetle to the Ferrari 
 F50. Well Bizzare Creations have done it again with the launch of the powerhouse console the Xbox 
 360 with Project Gotham Racing 3. The third iteration is by far the best in the series but a few 
 changes in the game makes it differ from the first two games on the Xbox, read on.
  The first thing I would like to mention about PGR 3 is its amazing attention to detail. This is 
 by far the best looking racing game to ever grace a console. Never before have we seen graphics 
 like this in racing games or any game for that matter. Okay I know there is more to a game than 
 the graphics and I am getting to that in a sec. Lets mention the noticeable changes in this game 
 when compared to the first two in the series. The first thing you will notice is the car selection, gone 
 are the VW beetles and Mini coopers of the past, the entry level of cars in PGR 3 probably almost 
 match the fastest cars in the first game. They made a new rule in this game "Life begins at 170" 
 which means if a car can not reach 170 mph it will not be in the game. So your garage will be loaded 
 with so many cars it will look like it belongs to the editor of Road and track magazine. 
  The second thing different from the first two games are the absence of radio djs. To some this 
 is not a big deal, but to me this was huge deal, I always loved listening to radio stations that 
 were specific to the location that you are driving in. Now they just have a virtual cd changer 
 that spins the tunes, not as good I must say, and I hope for a return of the radio stations in PGR4. 
 
  The last thing has definately gotta be the new in car view. this view is sweet!, just like the real 
 thing. Bizzare has replicated the interiors of the cars into this video game with amazing detail. 
 This view is dangerous because while driving you will have a hard time not marveling of the top 
 notch attention to detail of the interiors of these cars. this is by far the best addition to the 
 new game and I hope to see other games follow suit.
  Control wise it is mostly the same as the first two games, which is a good thing to PGR fans. Yes 
 there is damage modeling but it is very minimal, you can slam your car into the wall at 100+ mph 
 and drive away with just a dented hood, too bad it isnt like that in real life!. The sound is also 
 top notch with engines sounding just like their real life counter parts and the road noise getting 
 louder the faster you drive.
  To round off this review this is the easily the best driving game on the Xbox 360 and also the 
 best of the series. It just misses a perfect score from me because of the lack of radio stations 
 and the lack of versatility in the car selection with all the cars being supercars but this is 
 a must buy!. If you want a game to show off what your 360 can do pop this in and drive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  At first I HATED this game. But after you spend some time learning to turn and get a feel for how 
 things work in this game it is truely great. The graphics are beautiful even on a regular tv and 
 the sound is pretty good. While it can be insanely hard at times when you play on the hard/hardcore 
 difficulties you can just play on medium like everybody else. The mulitplayer and live play is 
 also pretty fun.
  
  GRAPHICS: BEAUTIFUL!!!!!!
  
  SOUND: Good music even including some classical which isn't that bad
  
  VALUE: If you like 
 racing and own a 360 this game is for you
  
  REPLAYABILITY: Moderately high if you try to get all the achievements which can be a bit monotonotous
 
  
  SUMMARY Great game for racing fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamezmastah
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  Well, I must say this was my most anticipated game of the Xbox 360 launch and it lived up to expectations. 
 The career mode was sufficient but still lacks the depth of say Forza or Gran Turismo. The online 
 play is solid and the patch has only enhanced that. The addition of tournaments are another reason 
 to pop in the disc after completion of the game. The graphics are neat and the frame rate is very 
 reliable and I have never seen the game shudder. The soundtrack is slightly odd. The Bhangra music 
 really annoys me but the soundtrack does have a few gems.
  
  All in all this game improves the PGR series but falls short of the masterpiece that was PGR2. 
 Hopefully the addition of Cat And Mouse in the upcoming patch will improve the online experience. 
 Also a few slow cars would be very appopriate and suitable for the gametype. This is still the 
 best next gen racer around but in my eyes- its a stop gap until Forza 2 arrives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wildamnesia
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is certainly a fantastic looking game: The cars, the cities even the crowd are all amazingly 
 detailed.. But what about the gameplay....
  
  It's a racing game and it races very well. The in-car veiw adds a whole new dimention to the gameplay 
 and drags the game out of arcade and into simulation with a click of a button. 
  
  The major letdown for me though is the damage, or lack off. Your cars can take damage but it's 
 only physical and not mechanical. You can't completely total your car, parts don't fall off, your 
 driving doesn't fly through the windscreen after a heacy collision - in short, you can drive like 
 a maniac with little or no reprocussions (apart from a loss of Kudos) . This for me makes the game 
 way too easy.
  
  The game is best played online against real people. The single player game is a little lifeless.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerrad2003
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing manages to leave up to the hype of the fans of the series, as well as improving 
 the graphics greatly.
  
  If you played any other PGR game you know what you getting from this game, a realistic and at the 
 same time deep racing experience, the only con is that is does not have the same number of cars 
 that its predescessors had.
  
  If you are a fan of the series or fan of racing games in general this is definately a must-have 
 if you own a xbox360, one of the best games for the system so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveJ009
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Let's get the obvious fluff out of the way quickly for this one: Yes, this game is gorgeous. The 
 graphics are slick and well varied, including shading and generally "glintiness" of the cars. I 
 even really enjoy the Kudo system as a way to reward slick driving, although this is not a new 
 innovation.
  What really kills this game for me is the complete lack of customization. And I mean complete. 
 The only choice you ever get to make is a color when you purchase a new vehicle. Oftentimes, it 
 is only one color. Personally, Ferrarris should always be red anyway, but don't force this on me.
 
  This leads into the point of the subject line of this review. Since there are a plethora of driving 
 games available, why would the average gamer spend time attempting to unlock every available vehicle 
 in this one (besides for those oh-so-valuable Gamer Points) ? The selection of driving machines 
 is in no way unique, even Need For Speed 2 had the Ford Indigo. The class system is confusing at 
 best. I am not asking for the depth of customization available in GT 4 and that ilk, but can't 
 I at least change my paint? How about some rims? Video games are supposed to be about living a 
 fantasy, and frankly, having an Enzo on stock rims is the starting point of that fantasy. To quote 
 Han Solo in A New Hope, "I can imagine an awful lot."
  And my personal issue with the Kudos system is that it rewards terrible driving. Barely controlling 
 your vehicle in a sloppy slideout is not skill, it's actually losing control of the vehicle. I 
 like the rewards for "Clean Sections" and "Drafting", as these reward actual driving skills. Also, 
 rewarding a driver for getting "Air" on a track that you designed to do so is rather silly. It 
 would be like giving basketball players points for dribbling the ball.
  My next bash of this game is the track selection. Again, if you have played Forza, you should be 
 intimately familiar with these tracks. I can understand the Nurburgring is an established track, 
 and will look very similiar in many games, but Tokyo was lifted straight from Forza. As was the 
 Test Track, and another one that escapes my memory for right now. If I wanted to play these tracks 
 with these cars, why wouldn't I on a game I already own, with a car I was able to (*GASP*) paint 
 and customize? Or, should I shell $60 and buy this blatant copy of a superior (in my opinion) game?
 
  Don't get me wrong. The racing and graphics are top notch, they just aren't ground breaking. It 
 is actually quite easy to make driving games look good, as there isn't much in the manner of on-screen 
 action. If you don't have any other system, and desire a good racer, this title might work for 
 you. Personally, save your time and money for the next Forza, which I predict will blow this game's 
 doors off.
  Oh, and lastly, the load times on this game are atrocious. The 360 has way more power than is represented 
 here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pup55
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  I must admit that I am a die hard Gran Turismo fan so I was a little skeptical when it came to 
 PGR3. But being a fan of racing sims I figured I will give it a try. Boy am I glad I did. This 
 is a solid racing game from graphics down to game play. Each class of car handles differently but 
 not too far off of each other mainly because all cars on here are RWD, but muscles cars and exotic 
 sports cars handle differently. Playing Gran Turismo I don't like to play from the behind the car 
 view or chase view so I was stuck playing from what most call the bumper cam. But in PGR3 I can 
 actually play from inside the car. This brings a whole new look and race experience for me and 
 I like. Even if you don't drive in this view its still worth checking out. I watch the heroes channel 
 last night just to see the best race and it was actually fun to watch (and learn) . I will try racing 
 online line tonite to see how much fun it is against other people. But so far I like this game 
 especially since I can listen to my own music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreakwill
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  HOLY TOLEDO!
  
  What better racing game could've gave the Xbox 360's launch a good and realistic game! THis game 
 definately has lived up to the Xbox 360's standards, with great sound effects to stunning visuals, 
 this game proved to be one of the best racing series of all time.
  
  The gameplay is pretty smoothe. The controls are pretty easy but sometimes are frustrating. You 
 have to use LT to help you turn or you'll go straight into the stands. The game runs pretty smoothely 
 too.
  
  The graphics are gorgious! They live up to the Xbox 360's standards and insides of the cars while 
 in fp yiew look well detailed. Cars on the outside look b-e-autiful in third person too.
  
  Nothing much to say about the sound, Very well done.
  
  This game is totally worth checking 
 out. If you like racing games, this is your best bet.
  
  An 8.9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkSan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of the Project Gotham series and own part one and two.
  For me drifting through turns was always awesome, I remember playing the old Ridge Racer games 
 where you could easily race through an S turn with over 200 mph. And now with Project Gotham that 
 part of my dream of the perfect race game was achieved. To me Project Gotham 3 is the first real 
 race game for the Xbox 360. One of the new cool features that I like in Project Gotham Racing 3 
 is that when you fill up your garage you automatically unlock the next larger garage. This gives 
 you a little bit the feeling that youre playing a story mode, at least to me. And besides that, 
 its always fun to unlock stuff other than just cars and tracks.
  
  This brings me to the next new feature, badges, badges can be compared to the online achievements. 
 You can earn badges by completing a combo, winning a cup or having more than a million dollars 
 worth of cars in your garage, these are the easy badges, there are also badges like beating the 
 game on the hardest level, which is hardcore, or making an unending combo from start to finish. 
 A lot of these hard badges will probably be too hard for you, like they were to me. Which automatically 
 is a downside of PGR 3, the ultimate badges are just too hard. Its ok to make things harder as 
 you progress in the game, but some things just overdo it... This is also a downside for the online 
 achievements, because some of the badges I mentioned above are online achievements.
  
  Graphics are good, but they were already good with PGR 2 on the original Xbox in my eyes so you 
 wont hear me complain soon about the graphics of a race game nowadays. All the options are, like 
 before, very easy to understand. Everything pretty much explains itself so its very user friendly. 
 What does annoy me is that in some courses, when you look at the small track on the left of your 
 screen, the road appears to be straight, but then out of nothing comes a small turn. Because of 
 your speed you easily ram into the wall and see the opposition take the lead. But now that I think 
 about it, it may be because of the way my view is when I drive. My view is from the front of the 
 car.
  
  Sound has improved a lot, not so much the engine and/or crash noises, but the playlist that PGR 
 3 offers. I hear a lot of bands that I like and some of the best classic symphonies ever made. 
 Comparing this to PGR 2, PGR 3 has taken a huge jump forward. The option tunes havent really changed 
 for the better, not that it was necessary, and the engine noises are still good and realistic.
 
  
  Gameplay is good, very good. When racing and getting out of a turn you pull out with full gas. 
 Its very realistic the way you feel the car slipping away and so you have correct it to stay on 
 the road. And for making the combos the handbrake is of enormous value, when youre on a long straight 
 road and you still want to continue your combo, using your handbrake is the only option you have. 
 Be careful though when using the handbrake because youll lose control with a lot of care if you 
 go too fast.
  
  And now lets look at the online options. I bought this game about 3 weeks ago so I think I got 
 in just a little too late. A lot of times when I search for a game it takes about 5 minutes before 
 I can actually start. Xbox Live has a complete career mode as well, of course the online career 
 is a lot harder because now youll be playing against people, and not the computer. In the online 
 career you can unlock achievements too, online and offline badges. If you dont have access to 
 Xbox Live, well, its tough luck then, because you wont be able to complete the game without it. 
 In total there are 950 Gamerscore achievements to win, but this is extremely hard.
  
  Even though Project Gotham Racing 3 is a very hard game at times, its still a great racing game 
 and in my eyes by far the best racer for Xbox 360. But if youre still in doubt whether or not 
 to buy this game, just rent it and see for yourself. See ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentVendetta
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  When I rent a Xbox 360, I rent Project Gotham Racing 3 and Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter. My 
 favorite is really this racing game. You can't ignore that.
  
  The gameplay of Project Gotham Racing 3 is the same than the others games of the series. But it's 
 always good. We always have fun here. But well, the others attributes are best. But you can do 
 some tracks. You have a lot of fun when you play in your track. The problem is that you can't have 
 replay of races in your track.
  
  Because, yes, the graphics are incredible. If you have an HDTV, it's the best game for that. I 
 don't think that an other game can be so much beautiful than this game.
  
  The sound and the soundtrack is the best. Seriously, the soundtrack is great with all his songs. 
 But there that Poke And Destroy song, it's so annoying. I hate that song. But the sound of the 
 cars, it's great. It's the real sound of motors of the cars. It's very good.
  
  The value turn around the exhibitions races. You can go online, if you want. But you can spend 
 a lot of time in that game. Just because it's really fun. 
  
  The game have no bugs. It's great. But there's always that thing that I... Ok. The story is that 
 Las Vegas is the worst place for do a track. One day, I finally do one track in Las Vegas. When 
 I play this track in normal, I take 1 lap of all my opponents. I don't catch it and I do my track 
 in Hard. I still win, but it was really easy. I finally race in my track in expert. I win! I'm 
 good, but not so much! The reason of the bad laps of my appointments is that in the two last turn 
 of the track, they brake! And I never brake in these turns.
  
  For finish, Project Gotham Racing 3 is a must-have for all the racing's fan that has an Xbox 360. 
 It's not complicated.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09BA8053
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  This is the best launch game out of the bunch. The graphics are stupendous. The cities are detailed, 
 and I mean detaild. When you go in Las Vegas, along the strip, you see everything that whould be 
 there. The car models also look great, when you are walking around your garage and see them, they 
 look so real. When you are racing they look exactly the same, plus you can drive inside the car 
 and see the actual interior of that car. The sound is also great, each are has it's own sound. 
 This game isn't arcade racer or a sim, it's the right mix of each. 
  
  I would highly recommend this game, buy this before any other launch title game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mplane1982
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Bizzare Creations really outdid themselves with this release. I really wasn't expecting so much 
 from them when I picked up PGR 3. They've created a realistic racer that provides excellent challenge 
 for the seasoned gamer. What I like about this game is that though it seems like a pretty easy 
 pick up and play game, anyone who knows what they're doing can school the newbies. It really pays 
 off when you practice and plan out the best routes through all of the courses. Going blindly into 
 a race can be a little risky, especially online. It is very satisfying when you can take advantage 
 of others weaknesses. It also puts you in your place when someone takes advantage of yours. The 
 only problem I have is when you're online and people start ramming you; they need to save that 
 behavior for Burnout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moospot
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Overall, this is a fun and addictive game, but it is lacking in certain areas. For example, you 
 can't have 2 players playing locally logged on to Xbox Live at the same time. If you and your buddy 
 want to race other people online, you simply can't. That is just plain unacceptable in my opinion. 
 Otherwise, this is a great game is serious replayability. The single player mode is a tad short, 
 but extremely challenging if you try to go for Platinum in all races. PGR 3 is a good addition 
 to the franchise, but not as good as PGR 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttabutta
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the launch games that stood out on the 22nd of November when the amazing console 
 Xbox 360 was released upon the world. The perfect blend of simulation racing and arcade racing, 
 PGR 3 is one of the few racing games that has ever really appealed to me. I've never liked arcade 
 racers as they rely on insane trick combos and racking up points and simulation racers are too 
 realistic and frustrating for my tastes. PGR has obliterated these peeves I've had with racing 
 games by developing a challenging-but-not-difficult point system (kudos) and making the game pretty 
 forgiving if you make a mistake in a race. Though there will be sometimes where you'll be frustrated 
 because you can't complete that dang hot lap on gold, overall the gameplay makes it accessable 
 on the surface but surprisingly deep underneath.
  The graphics are flat-out incredible in this game. The in-car view has amazing physics and makes 
 you feel like you're actually in the car racing at 200 mph on that straightaway race in New York. 
 The light effects that reflect on the cars are absolutely breathtaking. The detail on the cars 
 themselves are very well done, as well. Besides the fact that there is little physical damage that 
 happens to the cars when you crash on that oddly-timed s-curve, the graphics definitely stay easy 
 on the eyes.
  The sound is the true highlight of this game. Hearing the tires squeak, the motors hum, and having 
 a huge compilation of music from at least a dozen music genres really makes you want to crank up 
 the volume on your surround sound system. This is probably as perfect as sound can get in a racing 
 game.
  PGR will keep you satisfied for QUITE a while. With five different difficulties, the appeal of 
 this game can include both mainstream and hardcore gamers, something few racing games have been 
 able to achieve. Though I don't have Live, I hear from many that the online only furthers the value 
 of this game. Though the races can get repetitive doing over again just on higher difficulty, something 
 about this game keeps you going. Probably just how fun it is (once you get the hang of drifting)
 
  Overall, PGR is definitely a good game to check out after you've plopped 400 big ones down for 
 the shiny new white box. With appeal for everybody, great graphics and sound, and lasting value 
 with good online racing, PGR is definitely the winner for best racing game on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heir_jordan_023
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I fell in love with the garages and all of my cars. The graphics were mind blowing. The gameplay 
 was really good, but for me.. I had Call of Duty 2 and this game for my first few months of having 
 a 360. I felt claustrophobic, I had no chance of freeroaming. If you like having nothing but hardcore, 
 tough racing.. this is your kind of game. I got sick of it after a while. I found myself doing 
 everything just for my garages and for every car in the game. Once I got every car, there was no 
 more point. This game is great until you have every car, in my opinion. I haven't tried this game 
 on multi-player yet, so I have no opinion on that aspect. I'm sure the multi-player is really fun. 
 This is a great game for car lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --Playstation --
Rating: 6
Date: May 28, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Snore! This game wasn't really fun, at all. I thought with all the good reviews and scores that 
 this was going to be a real good buy. Good thing I rented it first... Yeah the graphics are pretty 
 sweet, and the online is pretty wicked, but the single player campaign is so slow and boring!
 
  
  This game feels like an automated phone teller. Like, you just want to race, but you keep getting 
 asked the same question. "Use this car?", "sell this car for ____?" Yes, after a while, I don't 
 give a damn what car I drive, just get me on the race track.
  
  So once you get on the track, you think "Oooooh, car pretty. Graphics wicked." I thought that too. 
 I also thought, "Is this game going to show damage on the cars? For once is it actually going to 
 be realistic?" Microsoft, you never disappoint. Crashing into the walls did nothing. I give the 
 realistic value of this game a 5/10. 5 for graphics, and 0 for damage realisticness.
  
  Hey, I recommend you rent this game. Then, if you think it's wicked, you can come on Gamespot and 
 flame me. I just thought it was so boring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rome_212
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 28, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  This is the first game on my X360, and I'd just like to say that it's AWESOME!!!!!!! I LOVE cars. 
 I loved cars since I was a little kid, but the cars in this game are some of my favorites!!!! I 
 love the Lamborghini Murcielago. 
  
  The graphics? WOOO!!!!!!!! These graphics are amazing for a next gen console!!!!! If you like cars, 
 those graphics are eye candy!!!! And the places where you drive are quite nice. 
  
  Pretty cool soundtrack and I love the sounds of those cars!!!!!!!! 
  
  This is a very good 
 game. One of the best for the X360!!!!! You like cars? You like racing? YOU GOT IT!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: den1233
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 25, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This was my first Xbox 360 game and im proud i got it. the graphics in the game are wonderful. 
 the cars look real the in game play list are very well done and the online play is great. the core 
 racing isn't new and has been seen many times before. but the great looking citys and cars make 
 you not really care. the cars look real and theracing is great. Overall this game is a great buy 
 and should be in any racing fans 360 and now with the new updates on market place the game is even 
 better. final score 8.8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  this game was awsome this was the first game i got for my 360 and i had ok expactations for it 
 becasue they other ones werent that good but this one crucshed all the others one cant wait till 
 they make another one!!!!!!!!!!!!!! this makesme havve a lot higher expactions for all the other 
 racing games. i hope they make another project gothem racing game game because this one was the 
 bomb.
  the online play was awsome to first i didnt know whaat to do but sombody explanied it to me and 
 the rest was a breeze and t felt like i was playing for a few minutes but i was really playing 
 for a few hours. this game is awsome i defitly recommened it if your a big racing guy like me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafaelxisto
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  omg its pgr3, no coments!!! i just love this game, since I'm from brazil i just hope microsoft 
 gave me the oportunintty to play live, and rule pgr3. Cus u guys dont know, but im the reincarnation 
 of Ayrton Senna, lol, just kidding, hope i can play with u guys! And mmicrosoft, hope u make bizarre 
 create another pgr... pgr4 i hope, so it can have more cars and more fun. good luck everybody , 
 cus i herd from e3 that brazil may have live soon, and u guys wont have the chance against me, 
 or, it will be only fear... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the Xbox 360s premiere racing game at launch. Of course, there has 
 been a relatively large amount of hype surrounding this game since it debuted. That being said, 
 this game, without a doubt, lives up to that hype.
  
  When you begin your first race, the first thing youll probably notice is the in game graphics. 
 This game is simply flat out gorgeous. The car models are impeccably modeled, even down to the 
 smallest details such as holes in the brake rotors. The car models are so realistic that you can 
 go into the games photo mode (more on that later) and zoom in on the back of a Lamborghini Murcilago 
 and see each and every hexagon shaped hole in the cars rear grille. Even the car interiors (more 
 on this later) accurately reflect their real life counterparts. Everything on the inside of the 
 car is modeled incredibly well. Even things such as smudges or dust on the wind shield look realistic 
 and can only be seen when the light hits them just right, just like in real life. Its not just 
 the car models that impress either, oh no, the many locations you race through in game look just 
 as good. In career mode there is an option to walk around your garage and look at the cars you 
 have stored there. I was blown away by the level of visual detail in each of the garages. Looking 
 up into the sky and back down again in a couple of the garages, youll notice how the lighting 
 changes to simulate the way the human iris adjusts to the changing levels of brightness. 
  
  I do have a couple of minor gripes though, the first of these being that there is very little 
 damage modeling. The little that they did manage to squeeze in seemed like little more than an 
 afterthought. No matter how fast youre going when you hit a wall or how you hit it (be it head 
 on or whatever) the worst youll see is a couple dents in the area where you hit the object. When 
 you graze a wall on either side of the car, often times the mirror will bend inward and someone 
 rear ends you the spoiler (if your car has one) will bend and thats pretty much it. Its disappointing 
 to see how little was put into the damage modeling when previous games such as Forza and even its 
 own predecessor PGR 2 show convincing damage effects. In summary, aside from the weak damage modeling 
 the graphics are incredible and have to be seen in motion to truly be appreciated.
  
  Of course all the graphics in the world couldnt save a game if the gameplay was crap. That is 
 definitely not the case here. The controls are great, taking full advantage of the 360 controllers. 
 The acceleration and the brake controls are mapped to the right and left triggers respectively. 
 Thats really all you need to know to get started in this game. PGR 3 offers up a great mix of 
 arcade style drifts and realistic handling. Like its predecessors, this makes the game very easy 
 to pick up and play. The Kudos system is the PGR series unique points system that rewards you 
 for drifts, 360s, air, passing your opponents and generally driving cleanly (or like a maniac, 
 depending) . In previous games, this system was more fleshed out. In Project Gotham Racing 2, Kudos 
 actually meant something. By accumulating Kudos during the races, you were rewarded with Kudos 
 tokens, which in turn you used to buy cars. The Kudos system in PGR 3 doesnt seem like it matters 
 much anymore. Since youre rewarded with credits after each race the Kudos are only good for climbing 
 the leaderboards on Xbox Live and unlocking a couple of additional cars.
  
  PGR 3 sets itself out from the pack by allowing the player access to nearly every car in the game 
 from the outset. This again adds to the pick up and play feel and makes it widely accessible to 
 players of varying skill levels. Unlike other racing games, this game doesnt start you off with 
 some crappy entry-level car that would be lucky if it ever saw anything above 100 mph. The motto 
 of this game is Life begins at 170 mph. Thus, every car in the game is required to have a top 
 speed above that number. This ups the fun factor significantly by taking away the slowest and arguably 
 most boring part of racing games. 
  
  One minor complaint I have about the career mode is its length. Its not super short but it could 
 be a little bit longer. In the career mode, there are 23 trophies to collect. To earn each trophy 
 you have to progress through between two and ten race events. These events are not all straightforward 
 races, as there are drift challenges, cone challenges and speed trap events. The drift challenges 
 place you on a track and give you a certain amount of time to rack up enough points to match or 
 beat the target amount. Cone challenges are very similar except that you have to pass through cone 
 gates to rack up points. Simply driving through the cones isnt enough to satisfy the point requirements 
 in most cases. To continue accumulating points you have to throw in drifts between cone gates. 
 This makes cone challenges challenging enough to be entertaining. Speed trap events are somewhat 
 easy. To complete this challenge you have to pass the finish line at the speed required. I found 
 it easy to get a platinum medal on a number of these events.
  
  Perhaps the biggest addition to PGR 3 and the racing game genre as a whole is the inclusion of 
 the in-car viewpoint or dash cam as its sometimes called. In previous racing games, the closest 
 thing to the in-car view was the bumper cam. Named because the view looked like the camera was 
 strapped to the cars front bumper. The in-car view is implemented so well in this game that it 
 changes the entire experience. Playing in this view gives the player an intense sense of speed 
 and a sense of the cars weight as you pitch the car into and out of drifts. This provides a great 
 deal of immersion because it feels like youre really driving the car. The only thing left to complete 
 the experience is a force-feedback wheel. 
  
  As in PGR 2, the online experience is implemented extremely well. The interface is simple, allowing 
 you to jump directly into a quick race or choose from a list of options and jump into the game 
 that best fits these parameters. I found the racing to be silky smooth and free of lag. I also 
 found it to be highly entertaining. Racing against seven other people, all of us driving Ferrari 
 F50 GTs online in a seven lap eliminator match is great fun. Well it is as long as youre not 
 playing against jerks who like to tap your rear fender as youre turning to spin you out. Luckily, 
 to prevent frustrations like this you can turn car to car collisions off entirely. This subtracts 
 a little from the realism of the races but no one can resort to bad tactics if theyre losing. 
 
  
  One minor complaint about the online experience is the eight player maximum. It seems a little 
 low for a next-gen game especially when current-gen games such as Forza Motorsport support as many 
 as 8 players online. Considering that this is a next-gen game, you would think that there would 
 be a higher player limit. Its competitor, Ridge Racer 6 supports up to 14 players online. As I 
 said, this is only a minor complaint, and it doesnt really take away from the fun factor.
  
  PGR 3s addition is the Gotham TV spectator mode. This allows you to see players in action 
 like you were tuning in to a live ESPN broadcast. Its also great as a learning tool. The best 
 racers online are featured on the Heroes Channel and you can tune in and watch them race. By doing 
 this you can learn the tactics of the top ranked players and try to emulate them to improve your 
 game.
  
  Another nice addition is the photo mode. This borrows Gran Turismo 4s photo system and makes it 
 better. Gran Turismos photo mode is incredibly complex and can only be used during specialized 
 photo events. PGR 3s allows you to hop in and out of photo mode during any race. If youre performing 
 an amazing drift and you want a shot of it you can pause the game, hop into the photo mode, set 
 up your shot and take it. Simple as that. There are things such as sepia, exposure, aperture, and 
 focus players can tinker with to get that perfect shot.
  
  All in all, this game is a great addition to the racing genre and the Xbox 360s library. From 
 the hyper-realistic visuals to the online multiplayer, there are so many great aspects to this 
 game. If youre a fan of the series or racing games as a whole this is a worthy addition to your 
 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Never having played any of the previous PGR titles, I went into PGR3 with a fresh set of eyes (and 
 wheels) and a lot to learn. 
  
  Fortunately, Project Gotham Racing 3 is very user friendly, which made the learning curve not as 
 steep as I would expect. Fans of the series will feel right at home with the controls, while newcomers 
 such as myself will have no problems adjusting to them.
  
  PGR3 offers a wide range of vehicles to pick from (80 to be exact) featuring some of the world's 
 most famous brands (Ferrari, McLaren, Nissan, Lotus, Lamborghini, Mercedes) and some really exotic 
 models, including concept cars. Of course, many of them are unlockable through completion of certain 
 goals, and only then will be available for purchasing in your garage. You can even test drive cars 
 you haven't purchased yet.
  
  You basically begin by purchasing a cheap car, win races and do tricks to gain kudos, and then 
 spend your credits buying more expensive cars. But don't think that the faster and more powerful 
 vehicles will make your races easier! The game sort of adjusts the goal times by lowering them, 
 since your car manages higher speeds.
  
  The main feature of PGR3 is the online component via Gotham TV. If you have a Gold Membership for 
 Xbox Live, you can play online, while a Silver Membership lets you watch races that are currently 
 taking place. The matchmaking service makes sure you get placed in a race with up to seven other 
 opponents of equal skill level.
  
  The career mode in the game is split between online and offline. The offline career features a 
 series of race types (such as standard street racing or elimination) and has a specific "end" (collect 
 all the cars, complete all the goals) . The online career is pretty much endless, since you will 
 keep racing to improve your rank by making better times. All cars are available right away in the 
 online mode. Aside from online play, there are two other multiplayer modes: split screen, for two 
 players, and system link for up to eight.
  
  The tracks are set in five of the worlds most famous cities: New York, Las Vegas, London, Tokyo, 
 and Nurburing. Five cities may not seem much at all, but when you see the detail that has been 
 put into them you will understand why there aren't any more.
  
  Which leads me to the visual aspect of the game. PGR3 is downright impressive, it has an amazing 
 detail level. The lighting and shadows are very realistic, adjusting to the time of day and the 
 streetlights, and everything that can will reflect on the shiny body of your car. Even each vehicle 
 has its own custom dashboard, which varies from car to car. As you zoom through the streets at 
 high speeds, you can still make out some interesting details on the buildings, and while it might 
 make you lose the race, you should slow down at some point to just admire your surroundings.
  
  The soundtrack is what you would normally hear in other racing games, with tracks ranging from 
 Rock to Hip-Hop and even some strange music of no particular style to go with it. It's alright 
 when you play it for the first time, but you will probably want to pop in a custom soundtrack to 
 make the game more enjoyable.
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 was one of the first racing titles for the Xbox 360 and it does blow you 
 away. It's a must-have for any racing game fan. 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com Full review and screens at: 
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=pgr3 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razoso
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 21, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Racing Sims, there's about a Thousand to choose from, GT4, Forza, ect. Unfortunately this game 
 is just not up to par with those, With only 80 cars and 4 city's to race in, I found myself getting 
 bored after a while, the Cars where just to easy to obtain and i found myself having the GT within 
 20 minutes. And Damage to your car was not applied to your win total of credits or performance 
 in the race, just a cosmetic feature. On the other hand cone and drift challenges i found enjoyable 
 and original the graphics were impressive, the interactive garage was also a cool feature. The 
 lack or cars and tracks still is what is what is on my mind, a good rent.
  
  8.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniacc1
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 21, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  PGR3. An overall great game, yet there are times when you wish you were playing something else. 
 The game modes and races start to get boring after a while, and you find yourself doing the same 
 thing- Drive, Turn, Brake. Nonetheless, the graphics and visuals are amazing perfect in detail 
 down to the mirror scraping against the wall or the sparks flying off the side. Maybe if they made 
 it more of a sandbox type of game, it would be less repetitive, or maybe I just don't like racing 
 games. Mine came with the 360 so... But once again, still an overall great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: inchmeister
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 19, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  i love the controls and the amazing feel from sound to AI, a complete driving game, the engin sounds 
 are incredible and the solid frame rate creates a complete game. i must say there is room for improvement 
 but this is a worthe sequal to the original title. with many play hours and a full feature of 80 
 cars you will have a large vareity to chose from. this is a fundamental shift in gaming offering 
 depth and value. this is an addictive game and its difficulty is just right ( i felt forza was 
 very frustrating) . the tracks are well designed and fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  I came into this game not expecting much, because i don't really care for car or racing games all 
 that much. But i had a pretty good time beating the single player (which is quite long) and playing 
 online. The graphics are quite nice, as expected. The learning curve takes some time because you 
 have to learn when and how to make your turns really smoot. If you like racing games, do not hesitate! 
 And if it appeals you, but you don't really play these kinda games, rent it and see for yourself. 
 For me, this game is worth about $30, but if i liked racing games more it would probably be $50 
 to $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nrh04
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  when i got this game I was amazed to see how good the graphics and sound were..... especially when 
 hooked up to a surround system. 
  
  The Good: when every car has a top speed of at least 170, there really are no slow cars in the 
 game. the graphics are very good - the inside view is the best. the tach and speedo work and this 
 view gives you the best feeling of actually driving the car. The sound is also good too. Hook it 
 up to surround, and your can hear other drivers behind you in the rear speakers. the cities that 
 you race in are highly detailed and add to the awesome graphics of the game. The whole garage layout 
 is pretty cool too - you can move cars around and set up your garage how you want it.
  
  The Not-so-Good: you can't modify or add anything to your ride. even though your racing the worlds 
 best cars, it would still have been nice to be able to tweak them to your liking. Also, in a way 
 the game doesn't really offer the challenge of racing hard to get the best cars. you can buy the 
 best cars not long after racing. besides that, it's a very good game that I would recommend to 
 anyone who likes racing the best at 170mph + 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GBGTias
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with my XBOX360 in December 4 2005.
  
  I bought the console mostly because of Testdrive Unlimited, but since it was delayed i bought PGR3.
 
  Ive had a XBOX with PGR2 before, so i knew what the game was all about. Ive spend hours on reading 
 about PGR3 before i got it also.
  
  The best thing with this game is the handling of the cars, its somewhere in between a hardcore 
 racing sim and a arcade sim. The balance between them are what makes this game so fun. U get a 
 good feeling of control of the cars, its so different from car to car, that u have to do a few 
 laps to get a hold of the handling in different cars.
  My favorite is to take the B-Class Enzo down to Nrnbergrings full F1 circuit and drive 10-20 
 laps and making times that differs in 2/10 of a second. Trying to improve my self. U can drive 
 in so many different styles, so it never gets boring.
  
  So much for the handling, now lets go in to the graphics.
  It looks stunning. Every car looks 
 just amazing, and on most of the cars u can choose from 2 to about 20 different colors. U also 
 have a incar view, but i think its hard to read on the dials becouse, they arent lit in daytime.
 
  The asphalt on the "ring" is just stunning. The ground markers that different people had make 
 is all in there, which make a good presence. The cityscapes looks stunning. U can see shops, subwaystations 
 and spectators everywhere! 
  
  The sound of the cars are almost as good as for the rest of the game, but i think it can be approved, 
 some cars sound a little to boring i think.
  
  One small downside of the different views is the meters u have when driving in other view then 
 the incar. They are all the same. Meaning that the RPM meter has a redline spanning from 7-16K 
 RPM. It doesn't feel right, why not make meters that looks like real, like in TDU?
  
  The online play is what this is all about, but u should get penalty for ramming or driving of the 
 track.
  
  In solo mode u can up to 23 trophies, u earn money to buy cars to use in online and offline career. 
 once done with the trophies its time to go online where the real fun is.
  
  I think this is the best racing game for the X360 around. Forza2, TDU and maybe GTR would be games 
 that can compete with this one.
  
  Im spending about 10 hours a week on this game.
  
  BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 11, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  First, I'll admit that I'm not the biggest racing fan. But every once and a while, I get the itch 
 to drive. PGR is certainly a beautiful game, worthy of the 360 launch lineup. The problem I ran 
 into is it gets boring after a while. There aren't enough rewards, the cars don't seem as varied 
 as they should be, and overall the game leaves you kinda dry later. Again, I'm no huge racing fan, 
 and racing fans will probably love this game. But for me, I need more substance to keep me playing. 
 PGR is a beautiful game that drives great, but needs more gameplay and rewards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell26
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is probably the most revolutionary racing game ever. With all new ideas 
 such as walk around the garage which is great and you can look around your car or look in the mirrors 
 to see where opponents are during the race, this just makes the game sound even better. But the 
 creators could have done loads better. More cars would be a start, decent cars. Why the hell the 
 put old, Ferraris and Lamborghinis on I'll never know. Why do you want to buy a class E Ferrari 
 Testerossa or a Lambo Contache. It would have been better to replace them cars with decent racers 
 like the Nissan R92-CP, Audi R8 Infineon Le Mans, Bentley speed 8 or even a special racer that 
 you can unlock. A wider selection of cars would be nice in PGR4. Despite this downside everything 
 else about Project Gotham 3 is great and especially the detail on the cars on and off track. also 
 this is probably the first game that when you look out your mirrors you can see another car, that 
 looks like a car. Xbox 360 games are amazing and even though this was one of the first out, it 
 still ranks high. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdouglass
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 9, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham 3 is a good game, no doubt about it. It has impressive graphics and some fun moments, 
 but all that has come to be expected from 360 titles. Truth be told, PGR3 is just the same old 
 racing game with very little twist. Albeit, there is a twist: You can design your own race tracks 
 to play with online. As fun as this sounds, it's nothing more than choosing from a set of predetermined 
 options, so it turns out to be choosing a track from a list of millions instead of actually designing 
 your own. The Kudos system is a fun way of rewarding reckless drivers, but adds little to the actual 
 game. All in all, it's just another racing game, and there are plenty of other fabulous racing 
 games with their own unique twists to give PGR3 a pass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorblade3191
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Bizarre Creations, developer for the Project Gotham Racing series, has not been in the spotlight 
 for long. But so far, it has done wonders for the Microsoft console initiative, and it is one of 
 the most valued developers in the Xbox's arsenal. The original Project Gotham Racing debuted as 
 a launch title for the original Xbox, and it proved to be one of the better launch titles, matched 
 only by Halo (see my review) , and it won a loyal fan base with a successful first title. Project 
 Gotham Racing 2 arrived a couple of years later and quickly sold to Platinum Hit status, soon rising 
 to one of the most valuable games of the year. This time, it returns for yet another console debut, 
 sporting realistic graphics, great online modes, and the fastest cars on the market playable by 
 anyone with an Xbox 360. In my eyes, there's no denying that, overall, it was the best title available 
 on the Xbox 360's launch day and arguably one of the best racers ever made. 
  
  PGR3 is most impressive for a number of reasons. Among them are the fantastic graphics, the fast 
 and realistic gameplay, and the stunningly huge cities to drive around in. New with this particular 
 title are the map creator and the achievement basis. Although there are many elements of this game 
 that compete for your attention, I think the most impressive is the attention to detail and the 
 sheer amount of data poured into this game. There are nearly 100 supercars, all with accurate sounds 
 and design for which development teams spent countless hours recreating each. There are 4 major 
 cities, all digitally recreated with tens of thousands of reference photographs so that backdrops 
 would be three-dimensional and so players could design their own routes. (These are models accurate 
 enough to recognize real-world places within the game.) If you play the game for just a few hours, 
 you can appreciate how much work clearly went into the game. 
  
  The gameplay with PGR3 is somewhat hard to describe. Like its predecessors, it is somewhat realistic 
 and a little difficult to master, yet still fun if you play for a little while. While at first 
 I was a little scared by the difficulty (which still felt realistic) , I hung in there and learned 
 quickly, and it turned out to not be as hard as you would think. For some reason that I just can't 
 explain, every race feels realistic AND fun, and so the gameplay becomes addictive very quickly. 
 Furthermore, you won't have to work forever to unlock the most expensive cars in the game (maybe 
 only an hour for the best car in the game) , and you can experience the speed quickly - as the catchline 
 says, "Life begins at 170 [MPH] ," so you can be swept up pretty quickly. Some of the gameplay's 
 best qualities can't really be described. 
  
  The graphics are extremely impressive. While I still say that DOA4 has the best graphics I've ever 
 seen in my life, PGR3 still will take your breath away with awe. Some of the graphics are actually 
 used for effect, and very well; for instance, coming into the light out of a dark tunnel, the screen 
 whites out, similar to how you feel when you walk outside after a movie. While driving, you may 
 notice that some of the scenery blurs because of the speed. Another thing is that you can rotate 
 the camera around the car while driving; while I wouldn't recommend getting caught up in this for 
 too long, the way the camera blurs and the focus changes during these angles are very impressive 
 indeed. The rest is simply gorgeous; you can see the whole cities from the vantage points such 
 as the Brooklyn Bridge, and when you take the front-bumper camera you can individual, glowing black 
 pebbles in the road. When in the cities, you can see lights in the individual windows, and shifting 
 the camera while driving through city blocks, you can see that your path is part of a breathing, 
 fully dimensional city. Even bumping your car up against the partitions during crowded races will 
 show that individual, 3D NPCs will back up realistically with shock. It's amazing when you put 
 all of it together. 
  
  The sound is equally impressive. The cars all sound so real and clear, especially when you have 
 5.1 Dolby Surround and you turn the volume up. It's fun to shift the sound when you rotate the 
 camera, as the sound really does adjust to the angle. All of the cars sound different and very, 
 very real. All of the effects sound perfect, too - screeching tires, banging into walls, and so 
 on. The game provides a diverse music selection, which is most likely stuff you've never heard, 
 but all of which provides a unique feel for the game. No matter how good the music does fit, you 
 can always make a playlist on your iPod for adrenaline music or good driving music and play that 
 into PGR3 through the Xbox 360. (my recommendation)
  
  PGR3 has lasting value for a number of reasons. The first is that there are multiple difficulty 
 settings, which you may choose to change as you get more experienced with the car you're driving 
 or the game in general. The next thing is that, even if you play only single player, you will be 
 entertained for around 30 hours or better, if you play through only once on one difficulty. Don't 
 forget that there are other modes and that you can keep all of the cars you buy and play around 
 with them any time you want. The third valuable thing about PGR3 is the online mode. You are free 
 to play freely - without ranking - or you can go online in a level-based competition in the type 
 of match you prefer. Either way, it's a blast. Let's not forget that, if you enjoy this game nearly 
 as much as I did, you're going to find plenty of replay value on and offline. Also, coming from 
 co-developer Microsoft Game Studios, it only costs $50 versus other $60 titles, and finally, chasing 
 unlockables or just walking around your garages looking at your cars (yes, you can do that) , is 
 fun. 
  
  The problems that PGR3 has are not anything that detract from the experience, but rather, the simple 
 fact that not everyone will enjoy it. It does take a little while to learn, and it takes a patient 
 player to appreciate it. Furthermore, you really have to find the right difficulty setting; I played 
 it on the moderate setting and found it to be the perfect challenge, and then I tried Very Easy 
 and it wasn't fun at all. Finally, while 9.7 might sound like a stretch to some of you, there is 
 no denying that this game was well made, that this game will be enjoyable to at least some people, 
 and that the graphics and details are unparalleled in racers currently available on the market. 
 
  
  The Xbox 360 was probably one of the most hyped toys in the history of the consumer's market, and 
 it boasted some great launch titles. But I think that the ones deserving of attention were the 
 ones that ended up being delayed. The rest of the titles appealed to small audiences or were disappointing 
 to critics. PGR3 stands out as one that both showcased the Xbox 360's power and provided a fresh 
 and deep new racing experience with an affinity for details unmatched by competition. Even now, 
 with titles like the Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, PGR3 is still one of the overall best games available. 
 It shouldn't go unrecognized. 
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a truly elite title, full of astounding visuals, realistic and addictive 
 gameplay, and a online system that rivals the best racers today. Everything about it is beyond 
 impressive. It's life began at 170 miles per hour, but more importantly, it should be known as 
 what began the life of the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sramrevo
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 7, 2006 9:19 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 has taken PGR 3 graphics to a different level from the beautifully detailed vehicles 
 to the looks-like-the-real-thing environment and sky. No longer are the crowds gathered to watch 
 the race just plain cardboard cut-outs. Crash your car into the barrier and watch as the spectators 
 take evasive action!
  In addition to the racing action, the garage and photo taking features gives players a sense of 
 actual ownership to the cars their racing. I get great pleasure walking around my garages and looking 
 at my Ferrari collection. It is almost better than the actual racing action.
  Online play has been improved since PGR 2 on the Xbox. Along with matching you to equally skilled 
 drivers, the system also matches the connection speed so that you get lag-free action! Perfect.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTruth2500XL
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  At first I didn't think I was gonna like this game, I didn't like the first two. I had no choice 
 to get it becuase it was in a package. I was wrong. This game is amazing and very fun.
  
  The sense of speed is great and the cars are more gorgeous than ever. The graphics are amazing, 
 they've really put alot of work and detail into creating the cars. The enviroments and roads are 
 great as well, but not as great as the cars.
  
  The sound is even better. The cars sound realistic and get you amped before it reaches 0 at the 
 starting line. Cars sound like they do in real life. Another aspect Bizzare put alot of work into.
 
  
  The cars control nice, not all of them of course. But they all feel almost realistic and are distinct 
 in the way they ride. Online is fun, you will spend hours playing online, I have. You'll be playing 
 this game for awhile; good acheivments, great gameplay, good online, great graphics. I enjoyed 
 this game alot. Much better than the first 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daveg1
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2006 4:49 am PT
Review:  project gotham racing for the xbox 360 felt just like a minor up date to an already great game, rather 
 than a genuine sequal to the series and its a little short on content when commpared to project 
 gotham racing 2, but my gripes end there!
  
  this was the first game i played on my brand new xbox360, and was a good test bed for my first next 
 gen experience, from the visulas to the sounds of the cars to the controll mechanics, giving this 
 game more of a arcade feel than previouse project gotham racing games, maybe that is a good thing 
 im not sure, but it will appeal to a wider range of audience, im sure, about the controlls they are 
 pretty good and responsive and you feel always in controll of you car which is always good,
  
  the graphics are always clean and crisp on the cars especialy, and the citys are the best ive 
 seen and are 100% accurate to there actual counter part's, japan london new york there all there, this 
 game looks even better when obviously linked up to high definition television, i have a pioneer 
 43" plasma and it looks great!
  
  live is again where this game comes into its own, the online of this game is great, with a load of 
 on-line acheivements to keep you busy for ages,
  plus extra downloadable content from xbox live, promises to keep this game around for a long time 
 to come, with on-line competitions still to come, everyone with a xbox360 should own this game, its 
 well worth a look!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Attitude2000
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 5, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  This is the first in the Project Gotham Racing series I've ever played, so I have nothing else 
 to compare it to in that aspect. This is also the very first Xbox 360 game I've played outside 
 of an in-store demo. Which means there was no reset, no messy controller, no fatigue from standing 
 up forever or staring at a screen, and having to play on my 14-inch, standard definition 4:3 TV. 
 And I must say, that this game is just as stunning as it looked on the widescreen Samsung in my 
 Wal-Mart. I notice the attention to detail immediately, and you will too, when you see these cars.
 
  
  This is one of those games where if the colors of video games weren't so bright, you'd swear you 
 were looking at reality. You can see drivers in the cars, and the in-car view is amazing. You feel 
 like you're actually driving in a car you could never even possibly hope to afford in real life.
 
  
  The cities in the game are very accurate (as far as I know, I've never been to any of them) and 
 at night Las Vegas is spectacular. You can see all the hotels so clearly, you'll recognize them 
 whether you've actually been there or you've just seen it on TV a million times. The Bellagio, 
 the MGM Grand, New York New York, Paris, they're all here. Only a few spots have an Xbox 360 logo, 
 and I'm assuming there were some licensing issue involved. Anyway, this game is beautiful.
  
  This game is also a fun one, and if it plays like the other two PGR games, then I have no idea 
 what I was missing. The kudos system promotes sliding through corners, which is always a plus on 
 replays. There's a course editor, which you take the cities and choose routes. Don't expect to 
 go crazy like Midnight Club 3, but you can come up with some pretty good stuff.
  
  I wish I could comment on online, but I don't have the capability to play on Live. All in all, 
 I liked this and I'd recommend it to anyone who likes racing games. Heck, I'd recommend it to anyone 
 who likes cars in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_fox_man
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Pgr3 has the same great races and cone challenges as pgr2, except that its a lot better! It also 
 has a few extra challenges aswell. When you race you get a good sense of speed and adrenaline.
 
  The graphics are fairly amazing. i have a standard tv and they look great still! The in car view 
 is my favourite part! I love driving and being able to see my interior and the actual cat tacho 
 and speedometre! The outside view can look a little bit jagged at the edges sometimes though.
 
  The car sounds are very authentic but the soundtrack isn't my thing. In the beginning the classical 
 music sounds awesome while your driving, but i prefer listening to my own tracks.
  Its pretty good value except that it won't let me play online in the playtime area for some reason.
 
  This is a good racer with plenty of amazing cars, tracks and races and will fill your time with 
 plenty of enjoyment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gedeone1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  As a car game fan , i can only recommend this game to every one. The car are very realistic, and 
 very well done, the new car added recently are very nice and add a fun touch to the game . all 
 cars have their own real dashboard and are very well done.
  This game is between simulation and arcade so it is really fun and attractive. It is a real addictive 
 game and a must to have on the Xbox 360, it is a real pleasur to play with a car game like that 
 nice graphics, good sound, an easy gameplay so every one can paly easly with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  If you have Xbox 360, than I highly suggest you buy this game if you haven't already. If you were 
 a fan of Project Gotham Racing and PGR2 for the original Xbox than this is a must-buy. Even if 
 your a fan of Forza Motorsport or Gran Turismo, you'll still love this game!
  
  There is a great variety of cars and the handling is very easy for a car-sim. It may not be perfect 
 but after playing Forza Motorsport, this game felt so much easier. You still get 'Kudos' for things 
 such as powerslides, etc. just like in the past games. There are some very cool new vehichles along 
 with courses making this the best in the series yet. Going online and racing is probably the best 
 part of the game. There are always new people to face and it is just really cool and fun.
  
  The visulas are cool and amazing. First when you play, switch it to dashboard view because 
 it just looks realistic and extremely amazing! Now get one of those racing wheels and play and 
 your pretty much driving for real! As your speed increases you'll see backgrounds fade, come up, 
 and blur. Also from this view, everything looks phenomenal. The car has great detail and so do 
 the tracks. This is what an Xbox 360 game should look like. The vehichles all sound absolutely 
 spectacular and the soundtrack is great.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Game play: 7/10.
  
  There is no real story to this game, just like many other racing games. Buy cars, earn types of 
 cash, win championships, earn style points, and.... buy cars. Nothing too special. The controls 
 are pretty basic. Like many racing games on consoles, the R button is to accelerate, the L button 
 is to brake, and so on. Sadly, there is very, very, VERY limited customization to your vehicles. 
 Wow, you can change the colour!!! The game can be quite challenging, depending on what difficulty 
 you choose for each challenge. I think this is a good feature, because there are five difficulties, 
 and you can change them every race, so it offers a lot of variety. The traction on the faster cars 
 is terrible, but the steering is nice, nothing too slow or too bulky. I gave it a seven because 
 of how repetitive and boring single player gets, and how there isn't a lot to the game, just..... winning 
 championships. 
  
  Graphics: 10/10.
  
  I must say, the graphics are amazing, simply amazing, even without a high-definition television. 
 (HDTV) The scenery looks fantastic, the cars look shiny, sleek, and sweet. Even the tire marks 
 on the road look realistic!
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  The sound in this game is good you really feel like your driving a car just from the sound, but 
 the sound track in this game is crap it goes from emo poser punk to mozart...
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  There is an online mode but it can really bring you back to the **** talking 
 days of halo 2 people will pick the fastest car in each class and just try to spin you out of control. 
 There are lots of diffrent difficultys and hard achievements so you might want to keep coming back 
 for more.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 7.9/10
  
  I would recomend this game to racing fans and for people with HD-TVs who want to show off the 360's 
 power. This game atleast deserves a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splayatino
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Best racing game ever! Forget about gran turisimo & Forza there's a new champ in town. First lets 
 talk about control, Perfect blend of arcade and sim but its more on the sim side. The cars have 
 weight & you can feel it, theres friction & inertia, & momentum, f you've taken physics you know 
 the deal. Any way I usually hate racing games but i'm in love with this one. You may not be able 
 to customize anything except car color and tracks but this game is great. the A. I. gets easier 
 as you get accustomed to race lines, and when to brake & when to let go of the accelerator. The 
 dashboard view alone makes it fantastic, I feel like i'm actuall driving all these expesnse cars. 
 Online is where this game also shine and where you will gain all of your skill in the game, Truly. 
 I am new to the series but am now a loyal fan.. I just wish they had more alot more cities to choose 
 form. tts funny hor they advertise that you can creat millions of tracks but they dont even deliver 
 a high number of tracks. They should really look at the gran turismo series career mode and extend 
 it to the point to ehere it feels never ending minus all those license tests of cours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wpardue777
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Ok, after much research of some racing games out there, I was told PGR3 was the game to get for 
 Xbox 360. I was pretty disappointed with it in many respects and here is why:
  
  1) the graphics are so so, definitely not what I'd expect from a Xbox 360 game. But it's still 
 got enough quality you won't mind that as much as some other things.
  
  2) the multiplayer is pretty lack luster and you won't find much in the way of options. Other then 
 the fact you have different classes you can race in online. Also, I found it was hard to get a 
 race going b/c hardly anyone was online (ironically) .
  
  3) this game really presents nothing new in the race car genre. Fancy name, no substance.
  
 
  4) the gameplay is ok, and controls are just fine for this game.. however, some physics of the 
 game are unrealistic and why no damage effects? I remember playing Forza, that game was very unforgiving 
 in the fact you had to be very technically good driving to be good in that game, but at least it 
 had damage effects. In PGR 3, you won't have to be a great driver to be good in it. Just keep it 
 the vehicle from spinning out and your on your way.. Learning curve for this game is very low.
 
  
  5) number of cars and how you earn money is a far cry from what I'm used to. 80 cars is not enough, 
 period. And in this game, most all cars are fast, even ones you are first able to purchase. The 
 other drawback to this game is, there is really no feeling of having to earn what you drive, b/c 
 the money comes so quick, you could easily get the fastest car in a matter of a couple hours playing. 
 They throwing thousands of dollars at you, even at the easiest of levels for some of the simpliest 
 of races/tests. IT's no wonder why I was able to earn $150,000 in 45 minutes of just picking up 
 the game. And you can forget about upgrading, a NSX you have is the same as the other guy's.. Woo, 
 touch me, I'm unique.
  
  In closing, this game won't knock your socks off, it won't thrill you, it won't make you come back 
 for more and more. It's merely a waste of time. I would suggest buying Burnout Revenge for Xbox 
 360, it looks nicer and feels much faster, and a ton of people play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OpEn_FaCe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Back when I bought my original xbox, I picked up PGR2 as my second game, right after Halo. NEVER 
 did I think I was going to become such a fan of the series. I'll be honest, when I first played 
 PGR2, I was a little put off. The gameplay was ok at best, and it had a definite learning curve, 
 but eventually, I got hooked.
  
  Now playing PGR3, I've noticed both of those things that made me uninterseted in the prior game 
 have improved. The "pick up and play" quality is now there, absent in the prior games. I got into 
 this game much more easily than I did pgr2. The difficulty factor, which wasn't too bad in pgr2, 
 has hit just right on this game. I reccomend playing through on silver, mabye gold, and then going 
 back to try for platnium. Gameplay has improved greatly. This game will feel quite a bit different 
 for fans of the series, at least it did for me. There was also an obvious jump in the graphics 
 department, but there are still some minor things, like jaggies on the roof of some cars, that 
 kept it from recieving a ten.
  
  All in all, I commend Bizarre Creations for creating such a great series. PGR3 improves on the 
 minor faults, and the end product is a racer that I will play for years to come, at least until 
 PGR4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LEGIONS_
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 was my first Xbox360 game. Although the single player portion follows closely that of PGR2 
 on Xbox, it was still enjoyable to see all the great graphics on my LCD HDTV.
  
  The sense of speed is great only in 1st person mode. My gripe is with the in-car view. It looks 
 fantastic, but it's just not functional.
  
  After finishing most of the single player, I jumped online only to find that most (not all) people 
 seem very "emo" when racing. All I hear is whinning about why someone is changing lane, why someone 
 is staying in front of them, why someone else got 1st place, ect. 
  I've been with Xbox Live for about 4 years, and I must say that this game sports the most efiminate 
 online community ever. I was appalled by how ridiculous some people are, and the grounds for complaining. 
 
  
  After a while, I decided the best thing to do was to do what I never do: Trade the game in. I never 
 looked back since. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  First off I want to start off with the graphics. They a beatiful. The water in the garage is great. 
 When looking at a window in your garage you get the refelction of the sun. Driving in first person 
 view is sweet. Every one of the 80 cars a different.... Wow. The gameplay is real fun. The carer 
 made is fun. Offline is long and there is a lot of different events to choose from. Online is decent. 
 Some people will smoke you though. Gothem or whatever tv is great. It is fun to watch people play. 
 Cutom traks ar not really that fun Overall this game is really fun. If you don't buy or rent this 
 game, you fail at life. I hope you enjoyed this review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is a game I'm fighting with. I want to enjoy it, but I can't. The core gameplay gets old pretty 
 fast, and as amazing as everything looks and sounds, it just isn't that fun.
  
  PGR3 tries to walk the line between sim and arcade, and doesn't make a compelling game in the process. 
 There aren't enough sim components, such as car damage (c'mon, you smash a wall at 175 mph and 
 only your rear-view mirror breaks and it doesn't affect handling or acceleration) . And it isn't 
 arcade enough (crazy stuff and air time) to be genuinely fun either. The kudos system is kinda 
 fun, but to get first place without enough kudos and lose stinks like those boxers you've had on 
 for two weeks.
  
  But man is it gorgeous. The cars are amazing and the backgrounds are crazy real. The in car view 
 looks awesome, but it's unpractical to drive with unless you get really good at it because you'll 
 constantly crash and lose kudos. If you are like me you'll mostly use the 3rd person car view to 
 maximize your driving skills. Can you say HIGH-FRICKIN'-DEFINITION?!?
  
  And man does it sound good. The engines and squealing tires & such will rock your house with a 
 nice subwoofer. Also worth mentioning is the quite varied soundtrack. It's got a little of everything, 
 but the game got boring unless I was rocking out to my on tunes.
  
  But let's not get too carried away. It still isn't very fun. 
  
  If you love cars, or are dying 
 for a (non rocket launcher induced) racing game with lots of licensed cars, have PGR Xbox Live 
 buddies, and enjoyed the other games, at least rent this. Otherwise avoid this unless you rent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarceloArnez
Rating: 5.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Wow, upon getting the XBOX 360 I grabbed the most visually appealing game, trying to see what the 
 next gen console could do. Boy that was a big mistake. Let me begin with graphics...
  
  
  good sounds, can get old though. depending on different 
 camera views, the engine will change noises. can add custom songs to listen to while you drive, 
 thats pretty cool
  
  
  as i said before, i got the best looking game, and yes it delivered. the never before seen car 
 reflections are AWESOME. The bad part is, they are so reflective, they look like shiny plastic 
 cars. WTF?. They dont look like metal car parts at all, but they still look good. good or bad you 
 decide. The racing maps are okay, more detail was obviously put in the cars itself. For example 
 when youre actually in the drivers seat in the behind-the-wheel camera view, it looks awesome. 
 Each car has a specifically details model of its inside, and the reflections on your windshield 
 look good. The surrounding buildings and trees and landscape dont look that great though. And at 
 one point youll be on a bridge that looks awful, like its made of boxes... right
  
  
  My God this game is BORING. big mistake getting 
 the most visually appealing title for the 360 at release. I shouldve gone with NFS Most Wanted. 
 This PGR3 game is easy to beat, just avoid the walls of the track and youre set, and thats not 
 very hard to do. I beat this game in a day, and all i got were more pretty looking cars that ran 
 the ABSOLUTE SAME WAY. they all feel the same, just look different.
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REPLAY VALUE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  what? are you kidding me? i played this game 
 for one day and im probably done with it for life. Game beaten in like 7 hrs, and get all the cars 
 even though they all drive the same way with just a tiny amount of difference in sense of speed. 
 HELLO BURNOUT CALLS MY NAME. now theres a game for ya. The online mode sucked in this PGR3 game. 
 no sense of accomplishment going up from ranked 1,853 to 900. maybe if youre top 100 or something 
 which is highly unlikely.
  
  ~~~~~~~~~~BUY THIS GAME YES OR NO?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  
  no dont get it. its so boring and it just looks good. I judged a book by its cover, and man that 
 was a BAD idea. I guess if you really arent sure about getting the game. Rent it.
  
  If you are wanting an xbox 360 just for this game... are you kidding me? you should want it for 
 NFS most wanted, or maybe Obvlivion
  
  :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
  
  PLEASE EMAIL ME WITH COMMENTS IF THIS HELPED OR DIDNT HELP.
  THANKS!!!!!! :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratola
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Great looking, the best looking race game ever, other then the looks the playability is great, 
 there is no major car damage ( they scrach in predefined places and the modeled damage is not enough 
 or realistic, they should have put more work into it) . The inside view is beautiful and it plays 
 great. The number of car models is quite low,. and the cars are all great cars that you would expect 
 to be the best cars in a racing game, so actually there are no low ranked cars in this game. There 
 is no real finish to solo career, it just ends, no movies no especial cars , no nothing really.
 
  Concerning the visuals its fantastic, the car models are very detailed the shaders are great, 
 they give the cars real good looking reflections and other effects, even the interiors and racer 
 face and bodie are very detailed, the landscapes are great, cities and the vast mountains filled 
 with tons of trees ( the trees look very reallistic but they actually have some sprites in their 
 build ( sprites are 2D objects that always face the camera) ) , in this scenarios you can always 
 find hundreds of spectators (they are 3d detailed person models with lots of animations and model 
 variaty) . Other minor problem with the graphics is the sky, it is very reallistic but if you look 
 straight up you can see the sky texture beeing compressed into a point (this is a sphere sky) and 
 this is a very stupid problem that could be fixed with a little work, another "problem" is the 
 reflections in the buildings windows that are predefined and if you look at them with little attention 
 you can see they dont really reflact the scenario but some pre defined image, ( note that this 
 doesnt happen with the cars, the cars always have true reflection on them) .
  One great feature in this game is the photo mode, that can at any time in carrer mode be acessed, 
 you can control came hight, rotation, colour, sepia, exposure, focus, brightness etc... Then you 
 can save your photos to your hard disk or memory stick.
  This game offers a good multiplayer both offline and online. There are a few multiplayer modes such 
 as elemination , race, capture the track etc..
  I could say a whole lot more about every aspect of this game but this is meant to be a superficial 
 review so here it goes a 9.6 Superb game this is, buy it, play it, enjoy it, may teh speed be with 
 you ; ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whateverman1579
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  this game is the most innovative in the pgr series. it still has yet to pick up online as much 
 as PGR2 did but from what i've seen and experienced on the multiplayer so far, it's still just 
 as good or better this time around. 
  
  the highlight of this game is the online. there's an online career mode which uses matchmaking, 
 and i know what you're asking. Matchmaking in a racing game? how could it work? Well it does, in 
 almost every selection you get players within seconds of starting your search. There are a few 
 categories that people don'y play very often but most of them are just night racing or racing in 
 the rain. there's always a full room available in the E-class racing and those rooms are always 
 fun because you don't have to unlock all the expensive fast cars to get the faster cars in that 
 class. Also, you'll always find a room with players that are just as skilled as you, or better 
 than you if you want the challenge. The fun, long lasting, lag free online is what makes this game 
 worth checking out.
  
  The second best part of this game is the visuals. If it's your first look at an HD generation game, 
 you'll most likely wonder why you were playing that 32 bit goldeneye on your 64 just a few years 
 ago. The textures and blur effects along with the amazingly well done High Dynamic Range lighting 
 all go together seamlessly to create the best visuals available on the xbox 360 to date. once splinter 
 cell 4 comes out this'll probably change but until then you'll love this. The damage modeling on 
 the cars is fairly limited but you'll never notice it while you're driving at over 100 miles per 
 hour around all the corners trying to win first and claim your victory.
  
  The first person view in the car may not be a first of its kind but with the camera jolting around 
 with speed bumps or jolting forwards when you stamp on the accelerator or the breaks makes it the 
 best 1rst person camera in-car view to be put into a game yet. 
  
  The career lasts a while and there are 5 different diffiulties that encompass the skill level of 
 first time players and long time veterans. Steel medals are the easiest to get but if you're a 
 fist time it's a good difficulty to start on and the Platinum medals are nearly impossible for 
 most people to get but when you do get them all you'll definitely have something to be proud of.
 
  
  My only complaint about this game would be that whever the host leaves a game the whole room has 
 to be closed down... other than that there are no problems. you will encounter dirty racers but 
 you can always find a clean racing room to join as well.
  
  you'll get your value out of this 50$ next gen title because of the amazing lag-free online gaming, 
 the well rounded career, and the amazingly well animated cars that sound amazing, and drive like 
 something you couldn't afford even if you did win the 649 lotto. And if you happen to crash while 
 driving that Ferrari, it's a game so smash up your dream car as much as the damage models allow 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakedoy666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best racing games I have played in a long time with the exeption of need for 
 speed most wanted. The graphics are absolutely incredible and the sound matches every car perfectly. 
 My favorite part of the game would have to go to the in cockpit view of things. The control of 
 the cars is outstanding but it takes a little getting used to taking the corners fast without losing 
 it. The difficulty is just right for the most part bust in the hard and hardcore difficulty setting 
 it is pretty close to impossible to win a race, but overall this is a great game and I would suggest 
 buying it to anybody that loves racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheerio2
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I loved Project Gotham 2 on the Xbox, so when I heard about this game, and saw the screenshots, 
 my gamers tastebuds were twitching. I needed this game. I got this game, and I was not in anyway 
 dissapointed.
  
  1. GRAPHICS
  
  Before I say anything about the gameplay, the longevity or anything else, I need to tell you folks 
 about the visuals in this game. They are Serious!!!
  This game looks so good, it is hard to put into words, and I don't even have a high def TV. 
 
  
  The car models themselves are absolutely stunning, and to my reckoning, faultless. All the beautiful 
 curves and edges are there to be drooled over, and the sheen and reflections is nothing short of 
 breathtaking. You can (and will if your anything like me) spend hours just walking around your 
 garages, admiring the bodywork and details of the dream cars you have purchased. Lets face it, 
 it is the closest most of will come to owning any of these supercharged orgasms on wheels, and 
 I swear, you can almost smell the leather interiors, the exhaust smoke and a hint of burned rubber 
 *sigh*. Oh wait, I left that kipper under the grill. 
  
  Seriously, these cars look just as impressive in motion as they do stationary. There is a very 
 realistic blur effect which delivers a real sense of speed, coupled with locations which are incredibly 
 realistic. 
  If you live in any of the locatons in which the game is set (London, Tokyo, New York, Las Vegas 
 and Nordschleif) , trust me, you will spend a long time sightseeing, and going "wow". They really 
 put alot of work into the locations. They must have extensively photographed these places, coz 
 they just look unbelievably accurate. Some places buildings arent as sharp as others when you close 
 up in photo mode, but they still surpass everyother game that has ever tried to recreate a cityscape 
 with any degree of realism. You will find yourself wanting to walk off track, and explore these 
 rich recreations. I myself am a Londoner, and I still find my self going "I didn't know that was 
 there" or "wow, I can't believe they got this in the game". 
  As I mentioned earlier, the photo mode will allow you to walk around the city's and really explore 
 the level of detail ravished on this game, and it is very compelling. 
  
  The interiors of the cars are also absolutely beautiful, the incredibly detailed dashboard, the 
 mirrors reflecting accurately the surroundings and the light reflecting off the windshield and 
 side windows REALLY puts you in the vehicle. I mean REALLY! For me personally, this is the most 
 satisfying way to drive, and I find that I can still compete well with others in online races in 
 the cockpit view, though if I am really hard pressed for first place, nothing beats the bumper 
 cam.
  
  Summing up the visuals in drool factor- somebody get me supply of towels, an industrial sized bucket 
 and mop.
  
  2. SOUNDS
  
  The Music in the game for me ain't all that. Music is accessd via the d-pad, a flick up or down 
 switches stations, and each station is dedicated to a particular genre like Rock, Hip hop or classical. 
 A couple of very cool tracks and alot of other take it or leave it stuff is on offer, but this 
 is just my opinion, many love the tunes. I especially liked the classical station as it was a novelty 
 for me, and really is the only station to have when driving around in the old aston martin, or 
 jaguar don't ya know.
  The game sounds though really are OUTSTANDING. When you switch views, the tone and volume of the 
 engine and ambient noise change to reflect your view. When in the car, the noises really give you 
 that in car sound, and each car has a very satisfying and immersive engine noise and wheel skreetch. 
 Top Notch!
  
  3. GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is also incredibly satisfying. The 360 controller gives very precise control over 
 each vehicle, and each car feels, sounds, handles and performs very differently. It takes time 
 to get used to many cars, so you may find yourself coming back frequently to the more accessible 
 cars, but given a little time and patience, you will learn to drive many different auto's with 
 different driving styles. 
  For cornering, the motto is one of slow in and fast out, and as each car brakes and accelerates 
 differently, this will mean it takes time to get it just right with your car of choice. After a 
 while though, you will find each cars sweet spot, and maneuvering these beauties with skill and 
 precision feels incredibly rewarding.
  The KUDOS system rewards good driving, and is important for buying new vehicles. The better, faster 
 and more stylish you drive, the more KUDOS you earn, and the more cars you can buy. It also helps 
 you rank up on leaderboards. So if you get a great time, and some other guy also has the same time, 
 the person with the most KUDOS for that race places higher on the leaderboard.
  Aside from races, there are other modes like beat the cones where you have to drive round a course 
 with cones laid out along the track. Drive through the cones, in the time limit, with style to 
 earn the required amount of KUDOS to pass, and various other modes.
  Online gameplay is awsome, and very addictive. There is just something so satisfying about playing 
 other realworld rivals, and each race is gonna be very different from the last. The microphone 
 chat can also be really cool, but also really anoying if you get some 12 yr old who has overdosed 
 on orange juice screaming down the mic, or worse, a 40 yr old.
  
  4. LONGEVITY
  
  This game will keep you coming back for more and more. The challenges all have bronze, silver, 
 gold or platinum medals to be achieved, so once you get all the bronzes, you will find yourself 
 plugging away at it to get silver, gold and so on (especially if you are an acheivment whore like 
 me) . This will take a while, believe me.
  You will not quickly tire of the gameplay, becuase it is so satisfying, and almost like a new game 
 each time you try a new car. 
  Online mode will keep you trying improve your rating against the world, and who knows, attain that 
 coveted number one spot out of tens of thousands.
  That is a challenge I don't reckon I will achieve in this lifetime, but some of you might. 
  
 I am sure, that of all the games released at launch, this one is the one people have continually 
 come back to over the last few months, it will last a very, very long time.
  
  5. SUMMARY
  If you like racing games, shell out 45 british nuggets ($?) for this oh so gorgeous 
 game. It is a piece of art, a thing of utter beauty, the single most impressive racing game ever 
 created. This game has set a new precedent for racing titles, and has I am sure opened up a new 
 standard of beauty and gameplay in the racing genre which developers will now strive to achieve 
 and surpass. All I can say to the developers of PGR3 is "thank you, for causing me to waste more 
 time than is healthy creating a pool of drool on my living room floor while playing this stunner".
 
  GET IT, NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementfreek127
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 13, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  In Project Gotham Racing 3, the developers thought that it would be better if they actually placed 
 exotic supercars in the game, and it was a move that in my opinion made the game twenty times better 
 than the first two. The driving is not a complete simulation but more so than an arcade. There 
 are about 80 cars in the game -- broken down into classes (A, B, C, D, and E) . Therefore when you 
 purchase a car, you play with that same class. For example, if you still have a class E car and 
 are on the last race of the game, you will still play with class E cars and vice versa. It sometimes 
 gets boring in career mode when nothing new happens and you always lose, but as you go through 
 the game you gain a lot more money and kudos. You gain kudos when you pull off a great powerslide 
 or a clean race or something like that. And your thinking, "What do kudos give me?" Well in the 
 game their are concept cars which requires a certain amount of kudos to obtain that car. Xbox Live 
 is great. There are online careers where you play each scenario with other people on Live. The 
 online career is part of TruSkill Matchmaking service of Xbox Live Gold. But if you want you can 
 choose regular Xbox Live play where you create parties, invite players, and choose different gametypes. 
 To wrap it up, PGR3 is the best in the series and is a must buy for car lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: law1274
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I could not believe it. I expected it to be just like the first 2 
 games but it was a lot better. It is by far the best game in the series and one of the best racing 
 games of all time. I found the 5 difficulties good as it provides the correct difficulty for anybody. 
 From the beginners, to the real Hardcore racers the difficulty suits all. The graphics are absolutely 
 outstanding. The in car view is particularly good, just like driving a real car. Do not waste money 
 on Forza, when you can get a game 10 times better. The only downside to the game is that after 
 a whil the story mode does get a wee bit boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiefinator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, it has extreme graphics and very good blur effects. The cars are realistic 
 and make you feel like you are going 200 unlike other games. This is the best exotic car racer 
 I have ever seen. If you like the whole customizing your car, this may not be your favorite game. 
 You can only change the color of your car when buying it. However if you like driving, cars, things 
 that go fast, or things that are red this is the game for you! As far as Multiplayer its great 
 in that too. At $50 instead of the $60 it is a great buy. It is a little aged of the 360 games 
 but it still is one of the best racers ever made. If you have the Hard Drive or you want to rent 
 it I suggest you do, and if you buy it you will truelly enjoy it, and unlike what gamespot has 
 said the points in this game are fairly easy and just require you to put some time into a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewave07
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  OK wow........
  
  I mean let's be honest, can you find a better looking racing game out right now?? 
  
  The PGR 
 series continues to win over more and more fans with its stunning realism and wide range of available 
 vehicles. 
  
  As stated before the graphics just keep getting better everytime. One evening I was playing the 
 game on my 360 and I got so into it that I literally stomped my foot on the floor to brake, as 
 if I were driving a real car... Okay maybe I didn't, but come on, these graphics are too real.
 
  
  The sound is amazing too. The second the countdown begins for the race and you rev your car engine 
 your adrenaline gets pumping, then off you go!
  
  The only downside I had with this game dealt with the challenges besides the races, for instance 
 cone challenges. It's not that I had a problem with them, it's just I wanted more races!
  
  PGR3 is a must-own for true racing game fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkRaven_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm not the biggest racing fan, I'm just not very good at racing, but even I could have fun with 
 this one. The graphics are outstanding, specially on a HD TV, I hit a wall going 200 sometimes 
 just because I'm looking at the great detail. The gameplay is a lot of fun, but difficult for people 
 new to the series. It takes a lot of time to get each track mastered, and getting used to the turns. 
 Each car has its own experience in driving it, making the game fun to race over and over. The tracks 
 are interesting and intense, and you can customize your own route, making the value of the game 
 that much better. The online is a lot of fun, their is a matchmaking system kind of like Halo when 
 you play your Online Career, witch is fun, you can choose from a good number of different tracks, 
 car, and number of riders. Or if you don't want to do that, you can just join a unranked room just 
 for fun and just race where ever. The first person driving is a lot of fun, and makes you feel 
 more into it, but its very very hard to master. Online people really like to spin you out, I don't 
 know weather they just cant drive or their just basterds, but watch your back. Its very hard to 
 use first person online because its hard to watch your back, and tell how far you are away, and 
 keeping from cutting people off. But offline its not to bad using first person, because the AI 
 racers know how to drive, and they are a lot of fun to race against. Well summed up the graphics 
 are amazing, the game has a lot to offer, their are a ton of cars, and garages to put them in. 
 If you have a xbox 360, witch you should get one as soon as possible, get this game, it will keep 
 you addicted for months...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwwone
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This game looks fantastic all the cars look amazing and if you get chance to look at the citys 
 around you they also look incredible. But this game is so fast paced that your rarely get chance 
 to look around you .the game play itself is very good the missions arent your usual racing but 
 it very good from driving techniques to racing the clock to racing multiply cars. The best thing 
 about this game is the cars they are all fantastic cars that you would love to have in your garage 
 and the garages are also fantastic from the starter garage to the barn conversation and beyond 
 they look so good buy this game if you want a fantastic racer and good playable hours thanks for 
 reading all comments are welcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-Doggy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Overall Project Gotham Racing 3 is a great game. Bizarre has managed to incorporate many of the 
 most exclusive cars in the world into a single game without making something that simply shows 
 how much better any car in this game is than any car you will ever own.
  Some people may complain that this iteration of the series has only super cars, but there is no 
 other game that will allow you to drive exotic cars the instant after you turn on the 360. I always 
 enjoy seeing a Gotham TV race where every player is driving a Ferrari F50GT, especially when even 
 in the description of the car it states that only 3 of these cars have ever been made. 
  Graphically this is a great showcase for what the Xbox 360 is able to do. Every car in the game 
 has been recreated with a painstaking detail that is only surpassed by Gran Tourismo 4 for the 
 Playstation 2. Even the interiors of these cars have been detailed painstakingly well.
  The damage to the cars seems to be a little plain. I know that there are only so many different 
 ways to scratch the paint from nailing a curb, but it just seem to be that every car has a couple 
 of different damage models, nothing terribly dynamic or revolutionary. Hitting the rear end of 
 a car will cause the spoiler to bend in the same manor every time. Likewise running into a barrier 
 will bend your mirrors, this usually happens in one or two stages depending on the intensity of 
 the collision, but it is usually the same every time. Given that if you look closely you may be 
 able to see that the fragmented mirrors will still reflect what is behind you. Also going over 
 a sharp drop in a track will reveal if the hood latch has come loose, which is pretty good eye-candy.
 
  The gameplay is also a high point in Project Gotham. The less expensive cars in the beginning 
 of the game will allow for the player to get a grasp over how to play the game while the best cars 
 will bite back will a vengeance if taken through a corner the wrong way by an inexperienced driver.
 
  While Bizarre may have dodged a bullet as far as realistic driving physics are concerned, seeing 
 as almost none of the people who will play this game will never, or have never driven any of these 
 cars, each one performs as one would expect it too, the Dodge Viper SRT-10 Carbon will slip and 
 slide through every turn, while any of the Mustangs (I want to say that there are about 5) stay 
 firmly planted to the ground and generally drive like a heavy car.
  The AI does leave something to be desired at times however. The different AI settings perform as 
 expected, one gets the feeling that the difference is how fast that it drives. The computer cars 
 will stick to the same line for the most part, digressing if passing, but it is obvious that you 
 are not racing against other people. It should be noted however that the AI will do a good job 
 of sorting out a pile up and getting back to the race.
  Overall Project Gotham Racing 3 is a great pick for any fans of racing games. While the more casual 
 race fans may not be able to find as much enjoyment here as others, it is still a worthwhile experience.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: froggut198
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I am by no mean a fan of racing games, but this game has a special charm to it. Arcade racing games 
 don't appeal to me because while playing it I say," That is totally unrealistic." I don't like 
 to play simulation racing games, such as Nascar Season 2003, becuase driving around in circles 
 for 250 laps gets extremely boring and uninteresting. Then I heard about this game...
  
  Gameplay-9- Absolutely fun. It looks and plays like a simulation, but feels like an arcade. The 
 controls are nice and easy to get used to and the AI is challenging, yet not impossible, unless 
 your on Hardcore. Each and every car looks and handles completely different, which is more than 
 I can say for some games. Also the add on of arcade games is also cool. Gotham TV is fun if you 
 want to watch people race online and see who the best racers are.
  
  Graphics-10- Absolutely stunning! The environment is nearly photo-realistic and the cars look very 
 nice, though sometimes a bit cartoony. Not much else I can say other than wow.
  
  Sound-10- Each and every car sounds like they should, different from each other. They sound close 
 to what the real cars sound like as well.
  
  Value-10- Well worth the $50. Online is fun and fast paced. Single Player is great. Arcade games. 
 Stunning graphics. Need I say more?
  
  Reviewer tilt- AWSOME GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raymin4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Like I have already noted, if you liked the PGR series before, you will think highly of the new 
 addition.
  
  One major dissapointment with this installment was that you could purchase most of the best cars 
 in the game right off the bat.... or at least after you win some races to earn some cash, or credits.... or 
 are they kudos??? well whatever, you get the point... I thought this was great at first, but once 
 I had the Enzo...... and learned how to drive it skillfully, I found myself wishing that I wouldn't 
 have had the option to buy it so soon.
  
  The major thing that bugs me about this game (eventhough I knew about it before I purchased the 
 game) is that you cannot tweak or modify your favorite car...
  
  The graphics are really good but I did expect them to be alittle better than they are...
  
 
  The in-car camera view is really cool and probably the most realistic I've ever seen in a video 
 game... a nice touch
  
  The handling characteristics of each of the cars varies just as they should and the sense of speed 
 is very realistic.
  
  Overall PGR3 is a great game to add to your collection. I just wish I wouldn't have bought the 
 best car after only a couple hours of play.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ardie4352
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 has to be one of the best racing games to date. Although PGR2 is better than this installment, 
 the graphics in this game are just...... WOW. Simply amazing. The blurr effects when you are driving 
 super fast give you that feel that you are actually there driving. A let down is that you can only 
 drive fast cars. No more Mazda Miatas or Minis. This game is still fun and is one of the best lauch 
 titles on the 360. Also, there are a few minigames mixed in on those little arcade machines in 
 the garage. These are fun and give you a break from the hardcore racing action. Overall, PGR3 is 
 on of the best racing games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  Im a huge racing fan. Every Sunday you can find me watching NASCAR, and worshiping at the church 
 of speed. So needless to say I love racing games. In general I prefer sim-racing games to arcade 
 racing. When I picked up an Xbox 360, I knew that at some point I needed to try out Project Gotham 
 Racing 3.
  
  I had considered buying it along with the 360, but thought better of it and bought Need for Speed: 
 Most Wanted instead. Turns out that I picked the right game. Its not that PGR3 is a bad game; 
 its just under developed.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  PGR has always been a combination of arcade and simulation style racing. Im sure that kind of 
 game play appeals to someone, but not a racing nut like me. PGR3 has about 80 licensed cars in 
 it, and theyre all super cars. No racing Honda Civics here. This is both good, and bad. But 
 Ill get into that later.
  
  The controls are very loose, and no matter what car youre driving, they all handle pretty much 
 the same. The Kudo system is back, and it encourages you to drift through corners. Thus resulting 
 in a more arcade feel. But theres no real purpose to the Kudo system other than unlocking new 
 cars, and just for showing off. On the positive side, there are a wide varity of racing objectives 
 to accomplish, and getting gold medals in all the events will keep some players coming back for 
 more.
  
  GRAPHICS
  My jaw literally dropped when I first entered into the cockpit view of my Shelby GT500. Every car 
 has a fully modeled interior, and its a sight to behold. Even the external cameras are nice because 
 they give you a great view of the photo-realistic environments. Its not all perfect, though. The 
 lighting effects are nice, but the cars have very little in the way of reflections. This makes 
 the cars look like flat plastic instead of shiny metal. Theres also damage modeling, but if you 
 hit a wall head-on at 200mph youll only get a bent bumper, and it has no impact on the handling 
 of the car.
  
  SOUND
  This is sort of a mixed bag. On one hand, the car engines sound great and very realistic. On the 
 other hand, other sound effects didnt get the same treatment. Collisions sound more like a paper 
 bag filled with air popping than a metal-on-metal impact. The sound for Kudo points sounds almost 
 identical to a collision, so I often couldnt tell if I had hit the car I was trying to pass, or 
 if I had gotten a bonus. The music is good, and blends classical with techno tracks, but its nothing 
 that hasnt been done before in better racing games like GT4.
  
  VALUE
  This is PGR3s biggest problem. You can easily beat the single player game in one sitting. Theres 
 no challenge to it, and because you start off racing high-end super cars theres also no sense 
 of accomplishment. The real draw here is the Xbox Live online racing, but you can only do so much 
 of that without getting bored. Theres just no reason to race other than to improve your online 
 ranking. PGR3 doesnt have any form of car customization. No custom paintjobs, no after market 
 parts. Once you buy a car, and choose its color, thats the way it will be forever.
  
  PGR3 is still fun to play, but I wouldnt pay full price for it. It looks great, and its a great 
 visual test of your HD setup with the 360. But theres no lasting value to it. You can beat this 
 game in about 6 hours, and the online play wont hold your interest for longer than a couple weeks 
 at the most. My advice: rent it, and save your money for a real racing-sim like Forza Motorsport 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Goose
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Good: The in-car look it so cool
  Your car is fun to drive and its not to much of a Simulation...
  Kudo System is still there and 
 still cool
  
  Bad: Only Fast cars (I want to see some cars that i may be able to drive some day like all the other 
 PGR's
  To short... 
  On the Xbox 360 and not PS3...
  
  This is my faverite game for the Xbox 360... I only wise that sony gets a game like it to go on 
 there PS3... I don't own this game, but i've played it at a friends for a few hours.... I loved 
 racing in the Mustang with the incar look... Its proble the closest to being in a 2005 Mustang 
 for a long time.
  
  I just don't like that they only have very fast cars... I liked playing games like cat and mouse 
 on PGR2 (needed a mini cooper to do) and they ruined that because there are no cars that go slow 
 for you to push with fast cars like Enzo's and all the other great cars...
  
  I did like how much detail was in all of the cars... they got the steering wheel right on the Mustang... 
 I loved the in car look... I might end up getting a 360 just to use that incar thing... I can not 
 get over how cool it was...
  
  If you have a Xbox 360 and don't have this game then you are ruining your next-gen experiance... 
 I hope all 360 owners have fun playing this game while i hope sony gets one like it one the PS3...
 
  
  If anyone knows of a game with the in car look ( you can see the steering wheel) and a 2005+ mustang 
 for PS2 or Original Xbox the I would love it if you told me the game and the system....
  
  I Feel this game is a system seller... I hope you all have fun with this game...
  
  Sorry about 
 all this rambleing now Have a Nice Day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the third installment of the series (no duh!) . The single player is 
 most likely going to challenge you, if you plan to go for the platinum. In order to do so you will 
 need lots of practice and experience in the racing genre. The game will probably take about 30 
 minutes to getting used to, it's really simple and easy to get the hang of. Overall this game is 
 just downright fun to play.
  
  Gameplay: More of the same from Project Gotham Racing 2, but what were you expecting more? The 
 cars to fly? Yeah right. I played PGR2 144 hours believe it or not, and I still found this game 
 to be fun.
  
  Graphics: Getting to the point of being photo-realistic. The buildings are just jaw dropping and 
 so are the cars. Jaggies seem to be a bit of a problem in the game, but don't take away from the 
 experience.
  
  Sound: Engines sound great and everything, but nothing mind-blowing to say the least.
  
  Value: 
 If you have Xbox Live and need a racing game. This one is for you. No online? You still might want 
 to pick it up. It's only 50 bucks and the game will last you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acesion
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, Top notch graphics un equal attention to detail. Cool sound track. I love what 
 they did with this game i disliked the first two but after driving my dads Lamburgini Diablo and 
 then driving it in the game the sheer likeness is amazing. The reflection of the other car in the 
 window and the look of the whole game is great Just as i said before wished that they had 20 low 
 end cars just to mix it up. Also some type of Improvement such as adding parts or what not would 
 have been cool just something to spend the mass ammount of credits you earn on. Also only a few 
 colors to chose from for you car which is one thing i dont understand why couldnt they just had 
 a color pallet or something where you could make your own color with the RGB settings. Also wished 
 thier was some way to personlise your car so that on online races you would be noticed instead 
 of oh theres another F50 that passed me up. Overall solid game no glitches as far as i can tell 
 and challenging single player which will keep you busy untill the major hits come out for 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  This game truly is stunning. 
  
  The cars, the scenery, the sound and then add HDTV on a 42' plasma screen and you have a game that 
 rocks your world.
  
  The sheer joy of belting around London racing family on split screen is fantastic. 
  
  Then 
 there are the car choices, there are loads for your average day to day run around to the super 
 car of you dreams. And add the fact that you can bend them, and affect performance if you hit the 
 wall.
  
  Then online play is superb. Every race you take part in, and even time trials the Xbox live lets 
 you know how you are doing against the rest of the world. Then at that point reallity of life hits 
 you. THere is always some better than you, and I do mean always.
  
  Whilst it is very early days for the 360, and true greatness is yet to come. PGR 3 is a classic 
 for the 360. It sets the standard to a level that is going to be very hard to beat.
  
  If you own an Xbox 360 then you simply must own PGR 3.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HectorIssac
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:36 am PT
Review:  En primera tienes un menu de opciones, malo 
  La conectividad de Xbox Live Mala (Halo2 muy buena)
  Pocos autos
  Pocas clases
  Pocas Pistas 
 (quitaron mis favoritas Florencia y Plaza roja y Nurburgring me gustaba ms antes)
  Graficos regulares para ser de proxima generacion (combina los autos de GT4 y las pistas de Forza)
 
  una de las cosas que me gusta fue la vista de cabina donde ya puedes ve el volante.
  
  creo que por las prisas no hicieron un buen juego; espero que para el proximo lo ahagan con ganas 
 No como este.
  
  Para mi que he jugado GT, GT2, GT3, GT4, PGR2, Forza, este juego se queda, es EL PEOR DE TODOS 
 aunque si se ve mejor pero no le llaga ni al mismo PGR2.
  
  Espero Forza360, GTVision, PGR4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Let me get the bad out of the way in regards to this game. I do NOT like racing simulators since 
 I believe it takes the fun out of the fact that games should not be realistic (mixed reaction to 
 that) maybe because I have played burnout and ridge racer so much I feel this way. For someone 
 who is going to rent this game and isn't use to racing. the challenge is there so one week will 
 not do. you can choose to take the easy way and choose a bronze metal for every level. but that 
 takes away from your game score, and who wants that.
  Now on to the good stuff. this game while have a small amount of cars (as to say Grand Tourismo) 
 has a solid selection. from novice to experts. while not many levels (cities) there are many course 
 to roam in, and with the custom tracks your mind is infinite. the online play isn't bad either, 
 if you don't get your feeling hurt easily. 
  
  overall I rented this game, and if was for a reason. it wasn't worth paying 59.99 for it but i 
 was worth my game fly fee.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElJefeDeMedios
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is easy on the eyes, and the car selection is varied with many favorites we all know, and 
 many custom supercar surprises. Eye candy aside, I find the physics lacking. Let me explain - mid-engine 
 cars that are well balanced in real life should have less a chance of sliding out from the driver 
 than rear-engine / back heavy cars. This makes the 'driving-play' less realistic and draws my attention 
 away from just enjoying the race. Also, the way in which cars that have hgh torque at lower gears 
 do not react differently (as least in my perception) than cars that have lower torque for the same 
 gears not what I would expect of a next generation title. The track selections and city/country 
 scapes are nice, but I really give microsoft kudos for putting in the long German countryside tracks. 
 They are wonderful when racing other people of the same skill level. The crowds - well I have to 
 say that the crowds on the sidelines look very artificial - I get the same feeling when listening 
 to an old laughtrack for Sanford &amp; Sons. Overall, if you love racing - buy this game used - 
 otherwise don't bother, the good graphics and car selection do not make a 'great' racing title 
 alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scuffdog_65
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  PGR 3 for 360 is just another average game for a great system. Gameplay is not that great on this 
 game for single player, but if you have online, it would be a lot better. The career mode on here 
 is fairly boring and the achievements for this game are very hard to get. PGR 3 just isnt that 
 great of a game. It could have been better. The graphics and sound are just amazing for this game, 
 but it gets old quick. This is a game that u would want to rent first before you buy it. If you 
 are a hardcore racing fan this game could be for u. But otherwise, just rent this game because 
 it gets boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mister2zx3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  DLC Packs have fixed so much SUperb Job. This is how every game should evolve with $5 upgrades!
 
  
  PGR3 should have been more like PGR2. Cat and Mouse are gone. The tracks do not lend themselves 
 to skill ful driving. I have yet to outdrive a poorly driven uber car which was possible in PGR2. 
 The feel/physics have taken a step backwards. It's an OK launch title, that might pave the way 
 for a more proper PGR4, too bad in todays market cycles that is most likely 2 years too far away. 
 Maybe Downloadable Content and Updates will address some of these need for more broader spectrum 
 cars and tracks, and an option to RACE with more Simulation characteristics and with Handling/Performance 
 Damage options to be enabled at least for online racing.
  
  Looks nice, but beauty is only skin deep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_w_91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  I don't have an XBOX 360 but my friend has one and i've played it many times. I love this game 
 I just think it is really good and is definetely one of the better games i've played. The graphic 
 realism is something else. Gran Turismo Doesn't compete with Project Gotham Racing. Two Different 
 Leagues.
  
  The Variety of cars is also great & almost life. If the PS3 had Project Gotham Racing I think it 
 would be a lot better than the XBOX360. Racing online is also fun. I raced people from 3 different 
 continents and enjoyed every second of it.
  
  If i was to get an XBOX 360 it would be solo down to this game it is superb and worth the cash.
 
  
  jamie_w_91 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 has improved on the great series dramaticly with new cars, new locations, 
 new fast cars :D and pretty much everythign is new but somethigns are using things from PJG 1 and 
 2.
  
  Graphics in the game are veryw ell done with new stylish cars and new creative ways to play the 
 game does live up to its name in street racing. The light that shines off the cars are remarkable.
 
  
  Sound is even better then before and does add fine and creative styles to the new gaming industry.
 
  
  Gameplay is like the 2 last games its great but can get repetetive, so if you want a good game 
 but like some competition gett his.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jebushank
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  This just dosent look like a game, i mean it just looks too damn good. Anytime you take a photo 
 of a race or just a car it looks like a photoshop image thats made as a screen shot of what developers 
 wanted the game to look like. it just kicks ass and the game isint too bad either you know?!
  
  it takes al ong long time to complete this there is almost an unlimited story mode and the 
 online play is too much fun.
  
  possibly the best non need for speed kinda racing game there is, ever, ever its challangeing and 
 has a wide variety of game modes. cone challanger are particularly fun. if you havent played any 
 of the other PGR's like myself PLAY THIS NOW MAN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packruler
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics make you feel like your there. So many abilities. From picture 
 taking to watching others play LIVE!! You can do it all race and relax. Buy as many cars as you 
 want with amazing un-lockable garages to relax in a graphically beautiful oasis. When racing if 
 you do something you think would be cool to show off no need to fast forward just pause the game 
 and take a cinematic picture. Racing makes you feel your there and with "XBOX LIVE" you can trash 
 talk going into a "breaking feint" around a stunning apartment complex in New York. Or fly through 
 the Tokyo business district. Or scream around corners in Nurburg. Or even show the queen how racing 
 is done in Britain. Listen to preset music is fun but why not scream around corners at 100 MPH 
 with your favorite music blaring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  progect gotham racing three is microsofts gran turismo done right. this game has such beatiful 
 cars great drifting and alltogether racing gameplay. they give u so many nice cars to choose from 
 like a variety of ferrai's and fords and chevys and porshess and lotus and etc. the game has such 
 beautiful graphics and is fun to even just watch. the kudos system { or the point system ] os also 
 great. they give you kudos for pulling of great turns drifts laps etc. now the best part. live 
 play. the online mutiplaye is amsterful and doin perfect this game is a must get to all racing 
 fans and even to every one with a 360, even if you hate racing games this is the one almost everyone 
 could like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbossmin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  If there is 1 game you MUST own for the Xbox 360 - this is the one! It does not get any better 
 than this. From the realistic physics, the wide range of "super-cars", the awesome online play, 
 and the spectacular backgrounds - you become totally immersed in this game. Once you pop this game 
 in, you will be sucked in for HOURS! Just like the PGR's of the past, the realism is there, and 
 this is not simply a slam on the gas and go game. Each car has their unique "feel", and the way 
 they accelerate, the way they brake, the way they drift, etc... This is a fun game to play not 
 only by yourself, but you can have lots of fun in multiplayer or on Xbox Live. The career mode 
 is realistic and challenging (but not over the top) . For you folks that have wanted to own several 
 cars (in several garages) , but do not have the money to do something like that realistically - 
 this is your kind of game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonage007
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is a great racing game and has the looks and feels that will leave you wanting to get every 
 car. The gameplay is limited and has races that are easy and fast when you are in novice and easy 
 difficulty but when moving up to hardcore will make you sweat trying to get in the needed position. 
 The graphics are fantastis and the in-car view is a thing to see. Sense of speed is most noticed 
 in the in-car view than in any other. Not much damage is shown to the cars just minor dents and 
 scratches. This game looks awesome and sounds great on an hdtv but also preforms good on a crt. 
 If you do love cars get this game. it is one of the best launch games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morten-K
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:30 pm PT
Review:  A combination of stylish graphics and great gameplay makes this one of the best driving games ever! 
 Lots of modes and challenges keeps you coming back, and a great online multiplayer mode that will 
 last for months on end...
  
  The controls are great and each of the 80 cars have their own unique feeling tot hem. This makes 
 it worthwhile to collect the different cars, just so one can testdrive them and feel them out.
 
  
  Cool music and soundeffects, especially if you got a Dolby digital 5.1 sound system.
  
  Great graphics, portraying real cities like London, New York etc.
  
  All in all, a great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_ky
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  PGR 3 for the 360 is pretty dam good im not gunna lie the graphics are amazing and if u dont care 
 about graphics well the game play is great to im not a huge fan of getting kudos tho ur rank in 
 this game is dicided by ur kudos when it should be on how well u race once u get started u will 
 say to urself wow im never gunna be able to afford a nice car well dont give up on it the credits 
 add up so fast and the online play well if you "know how to race" that i aparently cant u will 
 have fun with it but if ur not to serious about the online play and you cut a person off once or 
 twice expect some bad feed back this game is great for the kind of person who is not into the drag 
 racing import scene if your a person who thinks stock all the way then wow u will want to get married 
 to this game but if ur into the import scene you will have fun but not fall in love i suggest renting 
 it if ur not a huge race fan and just pic up nfs but pic this game up if u love the sound of a 
 fararri engine and ur into racing a car fully ready to take on anything right out off the shelf 
 ohh and the sound track is terrible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzima
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  I just don't know where to start: this game was so great it left me speechless. I would have never, 
 ever imagined something like that : its so deep you'll risk to lose your social life. The heart 
 of this game is not the graphic (but dont worry, its good!) : its the addictive gameplay. Its not 
 a game for everyone (if you like arcade games this will be hell for you) , nor its a simulation. 
 its something in the middle. But when you grasp the heart of this game, its hard to walk away. 
 it has an insane online mode, that will get you playing forever!!! You'll really feel rewarded 
 after a nice race!!! and mostly, you'll have a ton of fun. In the end: a must have for your 360, 
 dont miss it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TegoCalde05
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 22, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Hello everybody! While I was at my friends house this weeekend, I got the chance to play this game. 
 Well the demo lol. The graphics are beautiful, the cars are really well detailed. HDTV makes it 
 soo much better in the garage area where you get to walk around in this fancy lot, full of exotic 
 cars. Gameplay was decent... I'm more into simulators. It does feel a bit realistic, but easy enough 
 for the amateur. Now I haven't played the actual game, but I do expect alot more from it.... if 
 I were you I'd buy it! lol Have a great day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vinnylong
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  A lot of people have different opinions on the quote "Life begins at...". But now I think Microsoft 
 Game Studios and Bizarre Creations have given us the answer to it.
  
  The quote can now be "Life begins at 170". This is the motto of Project Gotham Racing 3. And there's 
 a reason behind this. There may be only 80+ cars in the game but that's because Bizarre decided 
 to only include cars which had a top speed of at least 170MPH.
  
  But some of the cars in the game have a top speed of 170MPH, and if you combine that with the tracks 
 you have in the game, you have hardly a chance in hell of actually hitting 170MPH.
  
  But the speed demons are in this game to make up for it. The Ferrari Enzo, the McLaren F1, and 
 the Callaway Sledgehammer Twin Turbo. Now you may find this hard to believe but the Sledgehammer 
 is actually the fastest car in the game with a top speed of 254MPH!
  
  But it will take you somewhere around a minute to get to that speed because of its really slow 
 acceleration. Plus the tracks haven't got long enough straights for you to pull it off. Not even 
 the Nurburgring!
  
  Which brings me to the tracks now. Yes, the Nurburgring is in the game. But there are 5 different 
 versions and 4 point to point races here. You have the Half F1 Circuit, the Full F1 Circuit, the 
 Nordschleife, the Nordschleife Long, and The Behemoth.
  
  You also have 4 different cities to race around. London, Las Vegas, New York, and Tokyo. London 
 is designed for, let's say... mediocre cars. Las Vegas for the powersliders. New York for the fast 
 and the furious. And Tokyo for the old and slow.
  
  But it doesn't end there. The Solo Career mode is just jam-packed with loads of different races, 
 you have Race Against The Clock mode for setting your records, you have Online Career mode to compete 
 against the world, or if you just want to race for fun offline or online you have Playtime mode.
 
  
  And now this brings me to Xbox Live. It's probable the greatest thing to happen to online gaming; 
 and the worst. Because with PGR3 you can get the best experience online because there is practicly 
 no lag at all online, you have a TrueSkill ranking system to match you up with equal opponents, 
 but it gets bad from there.
  
  One of my friends says that on PGR3 you will always lose no matter what. And he is right. Yes you 
 can win a race but thanks to the new feedback system on Xbox Live you'll also lose.
  
  You can leave bad feedback on someone for various reasons. You can aviod them for unsupporting 
 conduct which means crashing into others on purpose. You can avoid them for quitting the game, 
 not knowing how to play the game, not being good enough, or even for being too good!
  
  This is no joke. People can give you bad feedback for being better than them! Why is it like this?!
 
  
  But back to PGR3 and its bad parts. No matter how many times you crash the car into the walls and 
 barriers the damage isn't realistic. There is hardly any damage at all. Only visual damage.
  
  Also many people are disappointed at the range of cars you have. More people were actually 
 better off racing the slower cars like the Mini Cooper or the Ford SVT Lightning.
  
  Lost of people are praying to Bizarre to include them later on in the Marketplace. But I'm not. 
 I'm fine with what is in the game. There are a few slower cars for those people who don't like 
 going fast. You have the Ferrari 355 F1 GTS, the Nissan Skyline, and the Lamborghini Miura P400 
 SV, to name a few.
  
  My final word is that if you prefer to powerslide and race your way to victory then buy PGR3. But 
 if you're the kind of person who prefers the speed of a Segway then go get PGR2. Just stay away 
 from Gran Turismo 4. Who in their right mind wants to go back to the son of the horrible PS3 with 
 its old-gen graphics and horrible controllers? And who really needs 800 cars?!
  
  Just get basicly every racing game that comes out for the 360. Because the 360 is here to stay 
 .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -X-Caliber-123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  I loved this game. It has novice, easy, normal, hard, and hardcore. If you're a crappy driver like 
 me you'll want to start out on the novice level because as each level progresses it gets much harder 
 such as when you go to novice you'll have to complete a track in 1:35 and when you go up to easy 
 you'll have to complete that same race in 1:00. 
  Rent it first just because you can beat it and get all the achievements in just a couple of days.
 
  Overall Great Game. I loved it and played it again and again and again and again.
  It truly Rocked. Wonderful Won Der Ful Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the best graphics I have seen on the 360. I think the 360 and PGR3 go hand-and-hand. 
 I do not own this game, but I have played and it is great. The main thing that dragged it down 
 was the price. $60.00 for a game is a bit pricey, but it has to be because it seems like it took 
 a lot of work to make. I definitely recommend this to anyone who has an Xbox 360. These graphics 
 beat Call of Duty 2's graphics by an inch. I hope the 360 dishes out a sequel to this game with 
 even better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baylon452
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  As soon as I got my Xbox 360 this game was in there straight away and I was impressed to say the 
 least. Im not much of a sim racer fan but Project Gotham Racing 3 is everything it is cracked 
 up to be.
  This game is quite addictive, I have found myself going through the career mode on all difficulties, 
 yet to finish hardcore mode yet as... well as you can guess it is hard. The other difficulties 
 are fine once you get the hang of the game. The gameplay is great; iv never had so much fun in 
 a sim racer before. Trying to rack up Kudos for being stylish is a great challenge. The career 
 mode alone as gave me around 40 hours of good times. The online career is equally as good; racing 
 against your fellow man online is a different experience to racing the computer.
  The sound and graphics of the game are pretty good, I have only gave this game an 8 in graphics 
 because it is one of the first 360 games and the quality of graphics may and probably will greatly 
 improve.
  
  All in all Project Gotham Racing 3 is a great game; I have enjoyed every minute of playing it. 
 Anyone with an Xbox 360 and who likes their racing games should definitely think about picking 
 this up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJ_Big_Dog
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  PGR3 was the first and only game I had purchased when I bought my 360 so naturally, I would've 
 had a lot of time getting to know the game very well. The first thing you notice when you play 
 PGR3 is the stunning graphics power backed by a very nice FPS rate. The variety of cars in this 
 game is also very impressive what with the new Lambo lisence. The single player in the game is 
 great because you have the choice of playing it real easy, getting comfortable with the game and 
 it's controls or just to feel like an all-star player. Or you can play it on very challenging settings, 
 so it DOES have the challenge there, if you want it. The single player is fairly lengthy too, in 
 the way that you can beat it through once and then try to better yourself for a more challenging 
 second or third time around with all new goals. The game is also packed with other little bells 
 and whistles that I believe they could've just left out cause clearly not enough time were spent 
 on them to perfect them but,... they're there none-the-less. Those being the photo mode and the 
 create your own track option. Nice concept,... wasn't perfected for production, seemed almost rushed. 
 And now for the multi player aspect of it, cause really when it comes down to it,... isn't that 
 all that matters. And that really is where this game shines, and ironically enough also where I 
 have my biggest complaints for the game. The shine, wow where to begin, playing against some real 
 skill instead of bots for once, playing the tracks you want and for however long you want at whatever 
 time of day you want. The complaints, ANYONE is aloud using ANY car in multi player, there is no 
 more filtering options. PGR2 had it so that you could choose a certain car or a certain car class 
 that people were limited to but for strange reason they decided to leave that out this time around 
 letting there be an anything goes method approach take over. This can really ruin a person's fun, 
 they create a room with a certain match in mind, some other people come in and do whatever they 
 want, cause they can. Over all however, a must have if you like racing games, despite hardcore 
 PS2 fans, there is no better racing game graphics wise out there to date. The custom soundtrack 
 option rocks and it's continuous, it doesn't stop during load screens. The complaints are small 
 and very few to the boasting, if you like racing games get this title and that's all there is to 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAM3BOY
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  this is the best looking game out for 360 right now and beauty is not only skin deep for theis 
 game
  
  gameplay: the control is just like a real car and some people dont like that, but i sure do. the 
 controls are tight and perfect in every way.
  
  graphics: this is next-gen all right. i am completely serious that the buildings and car models 
 look almost real, some buildings do look real if u look close. oh, the coolest thing is that there 
 is a cockpit view. truely outstanding.
  
  sound: great, but sometimes weird songs. WHAT HAPPENED TO GOTHAM RADIO?!?! oh yeah, the cars sound 
 just like their real ife counterparts, which is a plus.
  
  value: for $50, you cant find a better, realistic racing experience anywhere.
  
  if you have 
 360, buy this ASAP. if you are planning to get 360, get this with it
  
  WARNING: this game may feel too realistic for some gamers. in other words, the controls are just 
 like the real cars, challenging at 200 mph. it will seem very hard at first, but after an hour 
 you should be winning almost every race for silvers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The first of the 360 racing titles I picked up, and currently my second favorite. Nice cars, good 
 controls... a solid pick for most racers.
  
  Gameplay - Controls are a little sticky at times, and it is VERY easy to send some of your cars 
 into the walls. I LOVED the online options and if you are a multiplayer fan, this is the game for 
 you!
  
  Graphics - Beautiful! I don't know what else to say about it but the graphic quality is about as 
 perfect as it can get. Backgrounds were a bit off but you are also racing at well over 100mph most 
 of the time so that can be expected.
  
  Sound - a solid soundtrack, and nice backgrounds.
  
  Value - one of the top racers on the 360... if 
 you want multiplayer BUY THIS GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limp_Laky
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with this I never liked racing games period... then I got this. I am not into cars a 
 whole lot so I just get whats fast and looks cool. The array of cars in this game is absolutly 
 stunning. The detail is so intricate as you turn the shadows will move accordingly, and it handles 
 all of this without any lag even online. It takes time before you can place 1st online. If you 
 are going for player points this is not the game for you, I think I have 10 GP from this game total 
 maybe 20 and I have been playing for a while. 
  
  The track editor is fun yet very limited. If you want to make your car max out on speed and none 
 of the pre-designed cars do it for you then Route Creator is the place to go. 
  
  Xbox Live is a great feature for this game, the voice chat is very nice. It can take about 1 minute 
 from turning the system on to be in the lobby for a race. The one downside is that sometimes you 
 might have to wait 10+ minutes for a race to finish before you can race with your friends.
  
  The sound is deffinatly enough to suck you in, with many radio station choices I always find 
 something to listen to and if you dont like what they have you can always just throw some MP3's 
 into the 360 and listen to em. If you have a home theater system I would say you will benifit the 
 most from the options the 360 offers, you can hear cars from the different speakers all around 
 you in amazing quality.
  
  The controls are easy to learn and are all pressure sensitive, I mean that the more you push on 
 the throttle the faster you go, a very responsive feature and deffinatly better than when I played 
 Midnight Club 3. The Manual transmission option is probably the only reason you would use the ABXY 
 buttons except options and maybe emergency brake.
  
  This game is definatly a must have for anyone that likes to race and worth renting if you just 
 want a new game for the 360. Definatly my favorite and will hold me off until Oblivion comes out 
 next week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nymphetamine15
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  it so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so soso oso sos os os so sososssoso ossosos 
 os os os os os o so so oso so so oso so os oso sos osos os ossos oso so sos osos oso sos oso sso 
 oso soso ssos osos so os os os osos o soso os oso sso osso os osos so s o sosso s osos os s osos 
 o s so sos s o sos os os os s os os o os os os os o sossoso os o s o os oso so so os oso soo o 
 sos oso cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Well Bizarre Creations have done it again with a racing game that is great in almost every aspect. 
 The graphics are fantastic in pretty much any way, it looks very realistic the only downside I 
 can think of is no crash damage
  (it's a big bummer that they didn't have that) . The sound is also unbelievable with a great soundtrack 
 and engine sounds, but they have the worst crash sounds in probably any racing game. The career 
 mode is ok you can probably blow though it in a few hours. Just like in PGR 2 it has a robust online 
 setup you can have up to 8 players and it has a separate online career mode, it's to bad there's 
 no real progression in the online career mode. To rap it all up PGR 3 is a great achievement that 
 anyone that loves racing games has got to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_connexion
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  The good thing about this game is the graphics and some other things like
  - real citys yea and..... and....... ohh yea the grapthics lol. This game is something special 
 i really did like NFS and could play it a lot time. but it is something special with this one. 
 Had this game like in 4 days now and think is really boring lol. I like different type of car games, 
 and if u hate to drive only in the streets and if you hate loadings every 2 min. dont but this 
 game. But could have been worst. Dont buy this one if you dont like the other car games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  this game is fun but can get furstrating at some time i only play it when i trying to make a lot 
 of time go bye the sound track is horrable and the online needs a better sever or something cause 
 u cxan see the other players glichs sumtime lol but other than that its okay im still a hardcore 
 grandturismo person at heart uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu fffffffffffffffffffffffff fffffffffffffffff f f f 
 f f f f f f f f f f f f f f f fg f g f gf g f g f gf g f g f g f g f g f g f g fg fgg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e-pro
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  Give me a break. I am stunned that people actually like to play this game. maybe i am biased, but 
 after renting this game, i cant understand why anyone would really rate it so high.
  
  it is essentially your a-typical racer. if that is your deal, then have fun. 
  
  good graphics.
 
  
  gameplay is boring. no real sense of speed or energy. its like an old man game. if you really want 
 a realistic racing game, go for forza. if you want a fun, high-octane game, go for burnout. this 
 game falls in the uncomfortable middle and is sure to bore people on both sides.
  
  for a next-gen racer, this leaves the improvment window wide open.
  
  enjoy if you can, but 
 im going back to sleep!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidHenchman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Here is my signature "bullet" review for PGR3:
  
  The Good:
  -This game is FAST!
  -Graphics are breathtaking, especially when your walking around your garage.
  -Cars sound spot 
 on with their real-life counterparts
  -Online play is arguably the best on the 360 as of now
  -Achievments actually make sense and 
 you acctually will want to complete them.
  -Alot of tracks to race on. 
  -70+ Cars... YES!!
  -Route Creator
  -Photo Mode
  -Gotham TV
  
  The Bad:
  - Soundtrack 
 is kinda "EH?"
  -Online Carrer is unclear.
  
  If your looking for a fun racing game or just want a fun game to play online.. please pick up PGR3 
 you wont regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Nothing short of outstading nothing new in gameplay but a few rule changes in game but cones corners 
 and crashs all there you still have little men spinning you out for no reason which can make people 
 give you a bad rating but a good honest and lets face it the best so far car racing game on the 
 360 it will be while before its beaten but it will. Likr Gotham TV its worth having a ook (and 
 it will give you points on your gamer card) loads of cars tracks some of the tracks can take time 
 to master......
  
  On line is great as before this is solid racing low lets have forza 2.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limonadi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  this game is visually amazing is not a new stuff at all but u cant say that's not good because 
 of it ' u got 2 get it soon 'cause is gonna be sold out soon i think AWESOME!!!!!!!!! THIS GENERATION 
 IS JUST ABOUT TO START n this is a god parameter for all that's comin' so how can u say is not 
 a good game just get it !!!! the cars r visually perfect the control response is good too , the 
 music , i think will not dissapoint anyone ,the selection of cars is good , the cities where you 
 can race are god enough for get hours of fun , and the locked stuff will get you busy for a good 
 time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_Skywalker
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  The price of the game doesn't have much to do with my thoughts on the matter. It is a great racing 
 game, but has its moments of dullness. While it has no upgrade for cars, or a way to really make 
 you feel independent with your car, it still is racing. I think that like the 2 before this, it 
 looks good and has a good replay value. It has a real feel of speed. It also lets you take on the 
 "driver" seat for a change, and never really has any flaws or **** when it comes time to pound 
 the pavement. Online the game is sound as well. If your looking for a reason to buy a 360, don't 
 do it for this. If you got one and the couple coins to spend, then hey grab that sucker up. If 
 your having trouble choosing this or Ridge Racer..... Get this... Ridge is just not a "true to the 
 form" racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soccermn6
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Yes it is the best racing game ever made!!!!!!!!!! The racing is so much fun especially on multiplayer. 
 The ai is so intelligent. The graphics are beautiful. There is so much you can do in this game 
 so many cars each car drives different and each cars has its specific high points. JUST BUY THE 
 GAME IT IS SO GOOD. I am not a big racing guy but this game is so unbelievable! I cannot find any 
 thing wrong with this game it was the first game i ever bought on the 360 and it is my downright 
 favorite! I swear to god you have to buy this game it will get you hooked on 360 and is just so 
 good DONT HESITATE this is just too good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0thr4
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  Okay, the graphics are wonderful, except when you're starting a race and the building textures 
 jump to life in front of your eyes, dragging back to the realization that this is merely a videogame.
 
  
  The Sound is wonderful, except that the music is rather anonymous, and the classical music selection 
 is dire (short excerpts of some rather uninteresting pieces.
  
  The Online racing is wonderful, except that the slightest careless mistake will usually result 
 in some little kid screaming abuse down your headset. You will also be accused of cheating if you 
 use manual gears, rather than automatic.
  
  The tracks are wonderful, except they are severely reduced from previous versions of PGR. You now 
 only get to race around relatively small areas of London, Las Vegas, Tokyo and New York. The Nurburgring 
 looks as if it is presented in all its glory; however, if you've ever been across to Germany and 
 raced on it for real, you will be extremely disappointed. Rises and falls, nuances in the camber 
 etc., are not reproduced very faithfully.
  
  And the single player game is rather boring. And far too easy. I coasted through the goldd medals 
 right to the end without any problems (or feeling of a challenge) whatsoever. Once I had completed 
 that, there was no real urge to come back to the game, save for playing online with my friends, 
 when they're available.
  
  Once the novelty of the graphics, sound and real-life tracks has worn off, what you're left with 
 is racing round and round in circles with cars that display no racing intelligence whatsoever, 
 simply stick to a preset line through every corner and bunch together in a pack. If they smash 
 into you, you're sent spinning: try the same to them and they are almost completely immune. The 
 handling of the cars is also horrendously unrealistic; this game is built around powersliding, 
 so many of the cars behave in ways that you would never expect in real life.
  
  The other problem is that the graphics themselves are so sharp and real looking (save for the aforementioned 
 glitches) that the unrealistic movement of the cars is now thrown into sharp relief. Watching the 
 replays is no longer enjoyable because the movement of the cars does not match the quality of the 
 graphics. The cars seem connected with the track well enough, but watching them powerslide round 
 corners, they don't seem to convey the weight of a real car at all.
  
  Put it this way: If you're after some arcade racing in some familiar-looking surroundings, and 
 can ignore the occasional graphical glitches, then this is the game for you. Also, the online game 
 (with your friends) is a good laugh. 
  
  If, on the other hand, you're after a realistic simulation of driving very fast cars very fast, 
 then I recommend you wait for Forza Motorsport to be release for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TA_Gen_SaMaXt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  wow, the next gen is.... not here yet. so close. its like reall life, but it still has some way 
 to go. i love the car inside view which is fun and realistic. the graphics ARE GREAT!!! they are 
 the best ive seen in a racing game. i think they could do some more things with customization and 
 stuff like that. that would be awsome if you could put your own customization in the in car view. 
 like a custom car radio, or a nav. i also think they could take a page out of midnight club with 
 a free roam game, but have the race depth that it curently has. i love this game and all of these 
 little flaws are minor and can be fixed in the next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  With the move to the Xbox 360, PGR3 steps up the racing benchmarks! Be aware, that this game is 
 NOT a full racing simulation. It's simply load, gas and go. There is no tweaking of anything. 
 
  
  Pros: Excellent graphics, ESPECIALLY if you have an HDTV. From the static artwork to the dynamic 
 animations, Microsoft has really outdone themselves. The in-car cockpit view is one of the best 
 views I've seen in a racing game bringing a very real sense of realism. Sound is great, not over 
 the top but each car has it's own unique sounds. Fun, easy to connect to multiplayer. Lots of music 
 choices from classical to rock to techno to your own custom playlists. Whatever mood you're in, 
 you shouldn't have any problems finding something to groove to.
  
  Cons: The career mode takes you through the various courses but it seems relatively short and very 
 repetitive. The damage modeling is very limited and doens't seem to affect your car anyway. Most 
 of the tracks are city based with only one road course. Would be nice to see more courses. 
  
  Overall, PGR3 will keep you glued to the TV for hours, building your rank off and online. The 
 unlocking of cars in single player mode brings mixed reactions for many. 8 players can race online 
 which seems a little low for a console like the 360. There is a custom track editor and music playlist 
 editor. Many games were rushed for the 360 launch with lack of content. With lessons learned from 
 PGR3, PGR4 will be a fun sim! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redgolf122003
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 was the first game I got for my 360. In fact, I got a copy for Christmas 
 before I even had a 360! Let me start by saying this, PGR3 is a great game, if you are looking 
 for a racing game to add to your 360 collection, get PGR3.
  
  The game plays like a forgiving racing simulator. Its not quite as realistic as Forza, but its 
 definitely not as arcade as Burnout. It took me about half an hour to get used to the controls, 
 and about an hour or two to get good. The difficulty settings are very well implemented. Before 
 each event, you chose the difficulty setting you want to race at. The first time I played through 
 the game, I did almost everything on the medium (silver) difficulty. I completed all the events 
 in about 12 hours without too much difficulty. I am currently working though it on the hard (gold) 
 setting, and I am about a third of the way through.
  
  The graphics are very good, but flawed in one way; there are a lot of jaggies. On my HDTV, there 
 is a very thin black jagged line around each car, which is a little distracting sometimes. However, 
 if you dont have an HDTV, then you have nothing to worry about. On my regular TV the game looks 
 like a really good original xbox game, and there are no jaggies.
  
  The sound in PGR3 is amazing. There are five different views that you can drive in, and the sound 
 of the car engine changes accordingly. When you race using the dash view (from inside the drivers 
 seat) , the engine sound is slightly muffled and just as it would in the real world. When your racing 
 using the on car views (where you dont see any part of your car) , the engine is noticeably louder 
 and clearer. Each car has its own distinct sound, which is very impressive, and shows the attention 
 the developers payed to detail.
  
  The main point of any racing game is the cars. The developers of PGR3 clearly went for quality 
 over quantity here. There are only about 80 cars, but what an 80. There is a very good cross section 
 of automobiles. They have classic cars, racing cars, dream cars, concept cars, they have everything. 
 The cars are grouped into classes based on performance. The only thing I would have changed about 
 the cars would be adding a specific racing class and adding more racing cars.
  
  The long term value in any next-gen game is its online multiplayer, and PGR3 has an amazing multiplayer. 
 When you race online, you race against up to 8 other people in fun, lag free races. Its similar 
 to Halo 2s matchmaking, where races are grouped together (like "game types") and you choose what 
 kind of event you wish to race in. The people are very respectable, and much less annoying than 
 those who play many other games. I have only run into a few annoying kids, and usually, the rest 
 of the racers warn each other about disruptive players (example: Hey, the kid in the blue Ferrari 
 is a jackass, watch out for him.) .
  
  All in all, PGR3 is a great game, if you love racing games, than you will love Project Gotham Racing 
 3. Even if you are just looking for a racing game to round out your 360 collection, look no further 
 than PGR3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: del_rogeo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Even the biggest Xbox fans must admit that the 360 launch line-up has been somewhat lacking in 
 true next-gen games. Nevertheless there are one or two that offer us a glimpse of the console's 
 true capabilities, and PGR3 is most definitely one of them.
  
  Probably the first thing you'll notice is how jaw-droppingly amazing the game looks. From the cars 
 to the scenery, the attention to detail is second-to-none, and what's even more dazzling is that 
 even at 200mph the frame-rate is absolutely flawless. 
  
  The vehicles all handle smoothly and there are a range of cars relating to the gamer's skill level 
 (from 'novice' to 'expert') . In the career mode medals are not awarded for the position you finish 
 races in, but for the difficulty level you complete them with. For example, complete an event using 
 the 'medium' skill level and you'll be awarded a silver medal. Once you've completed the game on 
 'medium' difficulty, you are able to return and play through again on 'hard' (in which case you 
 will be awarded gold medals) . Skill levels go all the way up to 'hardcore', which really is unbelievably 
 difficult.
  
  The sound is impressive to say the least. The amount of music on offer ranges from classical to 
 Japanese pop, although for me custom soundtracks are the only way to go.
  
  Above all PGR3 is great fun to play and can become very addictive. Racing fans owe it to themselves 
 to buy this game, although there are one or two minor irritations. The first is that the career 
 mode isn't particularly long; it shouldn't take more than a couple of weeks to play through, and 
 if you don't have Xbox Live then PGR3 doesn't really represent the best value for money. The second 
 is that there is no damage modelling. Smash into a brick wall at 200mph and you won't even lose 
 any paintwork. 
  
  Even so, this is a hugely enjoyable and great looking driving game that was about third in my list 
 of titles to buy for launch (behind Call of Duty 2 and Condemned) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopfacemanboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  This one of the better games out there. Contains a stunning carer mode with diffaculties for anyone 
 out there. Also brings a new feature to the table where you can save your replays watch them later 
 in gotham T. V. and even take pictures in the replay. You can also download other replays from people 
 on xbox live and watch live races in gotham tv. The actual game is excelent having the kudos system 
 still thier with drif and braking bonoses. It also has a free mode where you can pick anycar and 
 diffaculty mode and evreything and race for fun. It contains a varity of cars and the graphics 
 sound and relisaty is great. It comes with a soundtrack containing music from all genres ranging 
 from bathoven th The Used... but if you dont like the soundtrack you can use your own... you dont 
 even have to be a fan of racing to apprecite this game but if you are it makes it all the better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gohanmohan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 4, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  When I first fired up PGR3 my jaw dropped at how amazing it looked. It was the environment not 
 the actual cars that actually impressed me the most, they just look so real, it's hard to imagine 
 how they could look even more real. The in-car view is an absolutely amazing add-on, and although 
 it makes the task of driving a lot more difficult, it truly immerses you into the racing world. 
 My Xbox Live experiences were just as great too although you do get the occasional idiot trying 
 to ram you off road as soon as the lights hit green. I can go on and analyse every aspect of the 
 game but I think Gamespot did a very good job of reviewing the game, albeit, being maybe slightly 
 harsh with the score. In any case, this is one of the best, if nt, the best racing game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tto55619
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Really good game, by far the best current racing game (by the way, im writing this 4.3.06) the graphics 
 I just can't get over them! All the cars look like there moving photos of the real cars! The sound 
 is good also the engine noise sound unique to the car as well! I can't even put down my controller 
 once ive started to play it! The career mode is good, at 1st you think 'soooo easy!' Then once 
 you get to nuburging (sorry if misspelt) you think 'wow! total change in difficulty.' But its not 
 that much good value, well all xbox 360 games aren't, i mean, I got mine for 50! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 3, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 was one of the several highly hyped titles for the Xbox 360. It delivers 
 on many of it's promises but never does anything incredibly special to really separate it from 
 other racers.
  
  First off PGR 3 has some of the most amazing visuals I've ever seen. The car models, the scenery 
 is spot on, and the dashboard view is one of the most impressive things I've ever seen. Motion 
 blur is also incredibly well done and looks really cool when you move the camera around. For controls 
 Bizarre Creations did a great job. The cars are very responsive and it really feels like your going 
 170Mph. And as with previous PGR games it tries to capture that balance between arcady and simulation 
 racing. A problem that I've had with previous Project Gotham games is the Kudos system. When performing 
 a powerslide if you were to even tap the wall your entire combo would be gone. Now in PGR 3 that 
 is gone. If you lightly crash in to the wall your combo will be unaffected and even if you do hit 
 the wall hard you still get to keep the points you've gained up to that point. The cars selected 
 for the game are great. Bizarre decided to get rid of all the average cars and just keep a solid 
 lineup of super cars. The cheapest car I've found in the game is a corvette, so for the majority 
 of the game you'll be racing expensive Ferrari's and Lamborghini's. The game also features an awesome 
 photo mode that allows you to take pictures of your cars. All though it may seem like just a novelty 
 to show off the graphics it is cool none the less. Just as the last PGR game this one features 
 a great online. One cool new feature is Gotham TV. With this you can watch the top racers in the 
 world dual it out, and maybe even pick up a few strategies while watching.
  
  My biggest problem with PGR 3 is that it really doesn't try anything new. Oh sure there are a few 
 different type of race modes but nothing that really seperates it from any other racer other than 
 the amazing graphics. There are also far less locations then PGR 2 which some what disappointing 
 as it would have been great to see more beautifly rendered cities. The game also feels significaly 
 shorter than the last game. The sounds were great for nearly everything in the game except one 
 thing. The crashes sound incredibly weak. It really sounds like a glass breaking when a car hits 
 a wall going a 130Mph. 
  
  Overall Project Gotham Racing 3 is a solid racer. It really is a game that you can show off to 
 your friends and truly be called "next-gen." It just would of been nice if it stuck out from the 
 crowd a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 fooled my father. That in it self should get across how real this game looks. 
  
  I was at my parents house for the weekend and I had bring my 360 to get some gaming on there much 
 larger than mine HDTV. My father came out and asked what I was doing and at the time I was working 
 on the Gotham TV fan achievement so I was watching a race. The words that came out of my fathers 
 mouth were so greatHey Lucas what race is that" I then proceeded to tell him that speedvision 
 is airing a special race event from toyko. 
  
  My dad ( who is a doctor and to smart for his good) pointed out that there was no speedvision logo 
 on the screen. This is when I started laughing and told him the truth. My dad has never understood 
 my gaming habit but bless his heart I always had the latest consoles growing up. He was amazed 
 that the game looked so real. (Consider this my section on how good the graphics are, I think that 
 speaks for itself)
  
  PGR3 is a great game with a great solo career and awesome online play. If you need to hear more 
 than that to buy this game then go download the demo and you will see for yourself. You will find 
 yourself racing in order to collect all the cars in the game and stash them away in your beautifully 
 rendered garages.
  
  BUY THIS GAME IT IS REALLY GOOD AND IT IS ONLY 50 BUCKS
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  A boring game with only graphics to show off make this game very dull.
  
  It is boring just flat out boring in the single-player and sort of fun in multi-player. 
  
 
  Graphics- are really good the only reason i go down to a 9/10 is because of the AA it is only 
 at 2x and for a next gen game i want it at at least 4x because i can still see the jaggies and 
 now it is bothering me more than ever.
  
  Gameplay-you can pick up and older driving game like PG2 for the same experiace the only differeance 
 are the graphics. They try to make it fun with all the Kudos but that just makes it more boring. 
 To find this game fun you must be a huge race game fan cause this game imo is not worth the shelf 
 space note i will keep it but it rarely comes down. So if you want a lauch game then get COD2 that 
 is worth every penny imo
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry-boy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I find this game a little bit borring after 40 hours playing...
  
  But still it has the greatest graphics and sounds in all the rasing games ever made, The cars and 
 maps are really detailed. 
  
  and most of all the kudo system is much better than I thought, Its a nice system that make sure 
 that u driving the nice cars with the stile, I think the developer made a great job on this one.. 
 also the multiplay on xbox live was fun as well, so if u looking for a serious racing game PGR3 
 is just the right choice for u.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koda89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is one of the Xbox 360's best launch titles. The gameplay is a mix between 
 a simulation racing game and an arcade racing game. The sounds of the cars are very well done and 
 the cars themselves look just like the real things. The graphics in this game is incredible as 
 well. You can't really notice the detail put into the cities the races take place in, unless you're 
 in Photo Mode. This game has a really good online mode and racing against other players is better 
 than racing the computer on "Hardcore" difficulty. The Gotham TV feature allows you to watch other 
 races going on as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are awsome yet the track dont show texture like ridge racer 6 does but the interior 
 and outside of the cars and citys look ultra realistic even on stvs 360 pumps what it should respectivly 
 hdtv are a little better for it but as longh as gp is fun it dont matter
  
  the gameplays like 2 and 1 but it is more easier to get new cars then in 2 i wish it were 4 players 
 instead of 2 though still great mulitiplayer since you can play it with bots like mariokart ds 
 does
  
  value ill start with cars , they got over 80 cars but sadly they did not put porshes or many of 
 the ferraris found in 2 i didnt see a supra either that cars fast and so is tiburon gt those 2 
 really could have been added to the game the tracks are bigger plus you can create custom routes 
 
  
  the sound of the cars are fairly done well while some sound the same as others and music is ok 
 if you like heavy or jap stuff there could have been some major pop stars to add good music but 
 its ok 
  
  tilt one of the best racing games but it is no where near perfect pgr2 clearly had porshes and 
 stuff while this one excluded them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenMcBastrd
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:55 pm PT
Review:  As featured on loadedinc. com...
  
  Rows of suspension bridge cables fly by as engines roar from each side of your Maclaren F1. You 
 approach a hairpin turn and prepare to throw the e-brake and skid around the turn. Suddenly another 
 car rams your rear side sending you barreling towards the guardrail. You smash into it, reverse 
 from the wall and throw the car in gearjust in time to see the pack flying out of view. Yes, next-generation 
 racing is here and Project Gotham Racing 3 guarantees that race fans have something enticing to 
 look forward to.
  
  And boy will they be looking. PGR3 sports the most impressive visuals to-date in any console racing 
 game. Long gone are the murky, blurry, and downright awful textures of track backgrounds. As you 
 travel around the world youre inundated with the flare of each region. Long suspension bridges 
 in the Big Apple, flashy neon signs in Tokyo, and gothic-era architecture in London will fly past 
 your windshield as you dart around tight corners and bolt through the city straight-aways. All 
 buildings are rendered crisply, distinctly, and are some of the best of what has been seen on the 
 360 thus far. Even crowds on the sidelines are modeled in a crude three-dimensional format and 
 will run for cover if they see you coming. Its said that the little things count, and Gotham certainly 
 exemplifies that.
  
  Of course no one is going to spend too much time looking at the pretty windows, metal fencing, 
 and shrubbery adorning the courses. No, what people really want to see are the spectacular cars 
 that the series is known for. Making a return are a lot of exotic cars that most people can only 
 dream of driving. Ferrari, Aston Martin, Lamborghini, and Maserati are just a few of the companies 
 youll see in the lineup. While the cars do suffer from a rather glossy paint job, theyre still 
 magnificent eye candy. Spoilers, headlights, rims, company logosnothing has been left out and 
 driving on a high definition display will make players swear their staring at the real thing. You 
 get slightly more jagged edges on a regular resolution, but thats to be expected.
  
  The cars look just as great as they sound, too. The engines purr as if a cat were under the hoodwhich 
 is an interesting idea in and of itselfand will make you giddy as you rev up the engine before 
 the start of a race. Each car has a distinct sound, from the deep-gurgle of a Cobra Mustang to 
 the muffled high purrs of Ferrari. With a decent sound system youll be able to distinctly tell 
 when and where a car is approaching from; after a while youll be able to recognize which car it 
 is as well. Sound effects are just as good with screeches, crashes, and scrapes all sounding unique. 
 Gothams soundtrack plays just about anything you can think of including alternative rock, hip-hip, 
 electronica, and classical. Theres something to be said about burning rubbing through downtown 
 Tokyo with Mendelssohns Dance of the Clowns at full volume.
  
  The spiffy graphics and sound dont mean a thing if the game play isnt up to par, but Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 doesnt disappoint there either. Far from being a driving simulator, the game walks 
 a fine line between the preciseness of the Gran Turismo series and the slightly-arcade feeling 
 Rallisport games. The game stresses clean driving by including ruthless AI opponents who capitalize 
 when a bump into a guardrail throws your speedometer down quite a bit. This rigid-ness doesnt 
 cover every aspect of the game as youre encouraged to lay down the e-brake and engage in some 
 rubber-burning drifting around hairpin and gradual turns.
  
  Each successful drift will earn you kudos that add up after each successful race to increase your 
 overall rank. In Gotham success is only measured by how much effort you want to put into it. For 
 each race there are sliding scales of difficulty, five settings in all, which will determine completion 
 time, number of kudos, and even which place you need to finish in. This way veterans and novices 
 alike can enjoy the game at their own pace. All these settings dynamically change according to 
 the car you choose as well, so dont expect to save up your hard-earned credits to get a tricked 
 out Ferrari F50 GT and blow the competition away. A required lap time of 1 minute 17 seconds for 
 a Jaguar XKR will suddenly plummet to 54 seconds for a Maserati MC12.
  
  Those lap times are part of the games hot lap challenges that have you race a single circuit in 
 a specific time frame. The games career mode includes many challenges like this where you gain 
 kudos from tricks and earn credits to buy bigger and more-badass cars. Time vs. kudos is where 
 you try to complete a lap in a ridiculously short amount of time but successfully drift around 
 corners and the clock will temporarily freeze. The cone challenge not only has you complete a lap, 
 but also gather a specific amount of kudos before you finish. And of course theres the vanilla 
 modes like street racing, which has you race seven opponents, and a one-on-one challenge that has 
 you against a competitor who knows how to put the pedal down.
  
  If racing through a series of set challenges isnt your thing, you can also just go through PGR 
 3s play mode which gives you several options. Basic racing will allow you to pick-and-choose random 
 races from the game. Create-a-route will give you a map of a city and let you choose the starting 
 point, overall route, and finish line that you can save to your hard drive or memory card and use 
 in the future.
  
  Once youve exhausted your offline entertainment its time to boot up Xbox Live and experience 
 some of the best online racing there is. Gotham allows you to connect with up to seven other racers 
 per game, which keeps them from being too congested. There are the standard quick and custom matches 
 so you can find a game relative to your skill level and one that wont lag you out. There are a 
 few different modes including eliminator, which randomly punts the last place racer from the match, 
 and one of the more unique modes in the game called capture the track. In this the track is broken 
 up into different sections, and the player to race a section the fastest captures it for either 
 themselves or their team. The winner is the person or team with the most captured sections. Whenever 
 your racing thumbs are overwhelmed though you can boot up Gotham TV and watch races as a spectator. 
 Only the fastest and best tricksters are able to be watched so its guaranteed to never be boring.
 
  
  When its all said and done, Project Gotham Racing 3 is a fantastic launch title that racing fans 
 are guaranteed to enjoy. It doesnt reinvent the wheel by any means, but the tight controls and 
 fantastic visuals combine to make this a game that you wont want to miss out on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoldierofDoom
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy the racing genre as a whole, and I have been playing racing games for many years. Most 
 of the racing games I pick up usually serve me about 10-15 hours of time, before either I finish 
 the game of get bored with it. A few particular games stood out for me, such as Toyko Xtreme Racer 
 1&2 for Dreamcast, and with those games, I'll invest much more time. 
  
  However, of all the Need For Speeds, Forzas, Grand Turismos, Sega GT's, Midnight Club Racers, etc.... none 
 of them have come CLOSE to the enjoyment that is Project Gotham 3
  
  To be honest, the first 2 PGR's did not appeal to me. I'm not sure why, but for some reason I was 
 turned off by this whole Kudos twist, as I told myself that I wanted to race to win, not for style 
 points. So when the 3rd installment came around, I wasn't really waiting on it like others. When 
 I got my 360, I picked up Call of Duty 2 (which I love) . However, I needed another game, and when 
 I read the review on PGR3 on this site, I decided to try it once and for all. Also, the cockpit 
 mode looking fantastic, so I picked up a copy.
  
  That was probably the best decision I have ever made in terms of gaming. I have logged nearly 50 
 hours on the game alone to this day, and I have completed the entire game twice (on normal, then 
 on hard) and I am halfway toward my platinum medals. I have touched lightly on the extensive online 
 features, but theres so much to do in game that I am not quite at that point. 
  
  The actual driving gameplay is the best I have ever played, beautifully mixing arcade and sim to 
 make it enjoyable time after time. Graphics, sound, replay vaule - all top notch. 
  
  Truly, this is the ultimate racer. If you consider yourself a racing fan, do yourself a big favour 
 - pick up PGR3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This is deffinetily best in the series... I have never like this series more than i do now... This 
 games graphics are phenomonol... Nop tontch gameplay all the round.... The sophistics are amazing... The 
 car camera is good... The hard ness of it all has been raisen in all time high... This game is so 
 hard and very frasterating... PIck it up if you are in need of a good game. But if you are trying 
 to save your money, i don't blame you, hold off another 7 days and pick up Burnout Revenge which 
 will Revolutionize the racing saga... Just wait!!60 bucks is to much... But if you need to, rent 
 this game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benny_is_here
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Bizarre Creations have come up with yet another graphical showcase on Microsofts console. Hours 
 and hours of footage and hundreds of pictures made it possible for them to create photo-realistic 
 vehicles and environments. The game features 80 licensed supercars and the environments span over 
 Tokyo, New York, London, Las Vegas and Nrburgring. The soundtrack features songs from genres like 
 Hip Hop, J-Pop and even Classical. Theres the online play you could find in PGR 2 and even an 
 online career. The off-line Career includes 23 different championships, with many of the modes 
 youve come to know from previous PGR titles. Cone Challenge, Overtake, Speed Camera and new modes 
 like Breakthrough (timed checkpoint races, similar to Tollbooth races in Need For Speed Most Wanted) , 
 Drift Challenge (earn enough Kudos by drifting in a very limited amount of time) and Time VS Kudos 
 (racking up Kudos stops the timer) challenge your racing style, how well you handle oversteering 
 and so on.
  
  However, when comparing these numbers to that of PGR 2, youll find these numbers are far from 
 an improvement. Theyre actually a step back from the 100+ vehicles, 100+ tracks and huge off-line 
 career found in PGR 2. The soundtrack is also significantly shorter than the 200 songs found in 
 PGR 2 and there are no radio stations.
  
  Then what makes this game worthwhile, you ask. Well, its that this game oozes of quality, and 
 it does feel like you are driving these supercars in real life. 80 cars seem like a small amount, 
 but every car is high-end, and in the beginning you get to choose between cars like Ultima GTR 
 (my pick) and Chevrolet Corvette C6. There are also some impressive concept cars, and car enthusiasts 
 will be positively surprised to see cars like Nissan GTR Proto, Ford Mustang GT-R and the Ferrari 
 F430. 
  
  Theres also the new cockpit camera. In this view, youll se your motion-captured hands work the 
 steering wheel and gear, and (if youre using a car where you can see this) youre feet working 
 the brakes and throttle. Its all really realistic, and youll see any buttons or screens you would 
 see if you were driving the cars. There are also realistic shadows and youll see the dirt or any 
 damage on the front window. You can use the right thumbstick to look around in the cockpit and 
 look in the mirrors, as the regular rearview mirror is removed in this view. The mirrors are realistic 
 too, but the draw distance is much lower. The camera shakes and youll see how the G-forces affect 
 your view, which makes it very intense at times. Some of the tracks are bumpy and fast, and in 
 cooperation with the cockpit camera makes for a great sense of realism. If only there were any 
 steering wheels available for the Xbox 360 yet
  
  The sense of realism is greater enhanced with the authentic engine sounds. Youll definitely hear 
 the difference between a Ferrari F50 GT and a Shelby GT500, and the sounds change according to 
 which camera youre using.
  
  The cars also handle different. Not necessarily realistic (youre brakes dont lock up, for instance) , 
 but it definitely feels as it.
  
  Your cars get damaged and scraped, but not necessarily realistically The damage is only cosmetic, 
 though.
  
  The online play is also good. Theres very little lag, except for some rare occasions where your 
 opponent will disappear and re-appear or bounce a little. Theres a great chance of hurting your 
 rep, as other gamers will mistake competitiveness for anger, but Im guessing its not the games 
 fault. Theres a cool Gotham TV, where you can see the best of the best or your friends in action, 
 just like if you were watching a replay of yourself. The online career is pretty much like a set 
 series of sessions, and is a good place to make cash and Kudos. It is pretty short, though, and 
 it would be nice with more events based on the lesser classes. It will probably be updated though, 
 and the same goes for new content like cars and tracks. The car classes includes D, C, B and A. 
 A is the highest-end, with cars like McLaren F1 LM, and D is the lowest, with cars like Ferrari 
 355 GTS.
  
  As you make money you can buy cars. I know, pretty obvious... However, theres no system that limits 
 you from buying the best cars early in the career. You never win new cars to buy or own, except 
 for 10 of them who are unlocked by reaching Ranks by getting enough Kudos. If you keep your starter 
 car, which is definitely possible as the game seem to change your opponents according to your own 
 car, and rack up 1 200 000 Credits you can buy ANY car available. The problem is, almost all of 
 them are available, even top cars like Lamborghini Mucilago R-GT and McLaren F1 LM.
  
  When buying your car, you can choose to view cars from a specific manufacturer, cars priced under 
 100 000, cars in the 100 000  200 000 price range, cars priced over 200 000 or cars that you can 
 afford. After your selection, a list of cars will show up. By using the triggers you can sort by 
 name, price or performance. When browsing the list of cars, youll see stats like Horsepowers, 
 Torque, Top Speed and Drivetrain as well as meters displaying Drifting, Top Speed, Acceleration, 
 Braking and Grip. Youll also see Gotham Sport Comments next to the car. The comments describe 
 how well it drives, how easy it is on the player and some facts regarding its history. This can 
 be helpful because when the game sort cars after performance, they dont put into consideration 
 how easy the cars are on the player, like oversteering and overpowering. When you buy a vehicle, 
 you have to choose one color for it; the color cannot be changed without buying the same vehicle 
 again. As you get more cars youll also get new garages. These are all photo-realistic, and a nice 
 feature lets you walk around your garage and see how the sunlight hits your car. This really shows 
 off what a graphical wonder it is, and how its more than you would expect from a launch title. 
 You can also move cars around garages if you like sorting your cars, or move specific cars in or 
 out of the sunlight. There's also two arcade machines in every garage, one with Geometry Wars (from 
 PGR 2) and one with a trial version of Geometry Wars 2
  
  Another nice feature is the new Photo Mode. Photo Mode lets you take your own screenshots when 
 watching a replay, viewing your garage (s) or in a race. In Photo Mode you can walk around and really 
 take a closer look at objects and environments. By doing this Ive found hidden pictures of what 
 I believe are the guys that made the game, seen old cabs parked between buildings and more. The 
 cheering crowds and some of the objects arent that graphically impressive when up close, but you 
 wont notice it when doing turns at 150 MPH, especially not with the games gorgeous motion blurring.
 
  
  Yet another new feature is the Route Creator. There you can make your own checkpoints and do as 
 the title says: create routes. The Creator is limited though, and the walls made by the Creator 
 are harder to see and often badly positioned.
  
  Theres a series of badges you can earn in the game, as well as Xbox 360 Achievements. The Xbox 
 360 Achievements includes reaching Rank 5, Rank 1, owning every Lamborghini in the game, owning 
 every Ferrari in the game and completing the off-line Career mode in Steel, Bronze, Silver, Gold, 
 and Platinum. The Badges includes having a car collection worth 1 million, earning your first Platinum 
 medal and buying every car in the game. There seems to be a problem with the Own Every Car Badge, 
 as I own every car, but I havent gotten it. Ive checked for missing cars or duplicate cars several 
 times, but I truly have every car. It would be nice with an option to only show cars you dont 
 own, as spending money on a car and then finding out you already owned one is a real pain in the 
 you-know-what.
  
  The latest in the PGR series yet again show off impressive graphics, but it does fall short on 
 length. The Medal system (Steel, Bronze, Silver, etc) helps give the game replay value, and you 
 rarely use the same track more than once. The authenticity shines through, and makes you want to 
 experience the intense racing over and over again. Its also every car enthusiasts dream, thanks 
 to many concepts cars thats never been in any game before. Racing fans have to be crazy to sit 
 this one out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 25, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Hey,
  When I picked my new game console (the xbox 360) i really imagined this game bieng good like a 
 normal game. But it rose to me much more then what i thought it would. But i turned on my xbox 
 and it was one of those games u could hardly hold the controller because of the shock. It was just 
 amazing, it took me about a half hour to flow to the game, but then when your acctually in the 
 games core, it feels creepy. How could a launch game feel so natural, and be great. So if you were 
 lucky to get one this is something u defently want to pick up, if you dont... then haha, dunno 
 what to say. So basicly this is a game to be memorized until the next revolution, it should get 
 the credit, it is amazing. It stands up to cod2, and pdz (my launch games) but its still awsome. 
 Defently a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanH16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  For Starts The Game Is Well Worth Its Money. The Graphics Are Just Stunning The Details In The 
 Cars And Scenario And In Game Letting You Able To Move The Camera Around The Car Seeing The Whole 
 Car Not Like On Past Racing Games !!! GRATE LOL ! .The Whole Game Is Just Completely Stunning, 
 Online Grate No Lag, Any Car Any Track, Capture the Track, Streetrace, Team Streetrace And Eliminator. 
 Overall The Game Is Grate Loads Of Extras Like The Garage Feature In PGR2 Where You Walk Around 
 To Chose The Car You Want, Career Mode, Time Trials, Single Player Racing. This Is One Of The Xbox 
 360 Games You Want To GET !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! : ) : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2maniak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Well the 360 is out and has a good start with games like this. PGR3 has some of the best graphics 
 so far on the 360. The gameplay is soled too. There are many cars but customizability. The tracks 
 are very good though and well thought out. The building look great and there are real ones too.
 
  There is a good line of cars from lambo to Ferrari to Mercedes. There is also a great view that 
 is of you in the cars at the stering weel and all the interiors are the real ones. I would have 
 too say that the in game BGM is very bad and isnt loud enough, the music just dosnt fit. This also 
 well wofth $50 and is even beter than some $60 ones. The physics are correct too. I would recomend 
 this to enyone that has the erge to drive realy fast and have it feel real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warmack1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is a beautiful game and wonderful to look at on my 57in. HDTV, but that's were it ends. They 
 basically ported PGR2 from the XBOX and added better graphics and new cities. The Kudos bull s*&t 
 is still there which makes absolutely no sense in a racing game to slide around to get points from. 
 You do get a decent sense of speed in the game but not near as solid as it should be. The on-line 
 is the same, and the game it self in single player is a joke. It is far too easy to complete the 
 game. I mean your talking only about 8 to 9 hours max. The main reason for this is your upgrade 
 ability comes way too easy and you don't really have to work at it much to beat it on the hardest 
 levels. If your a racing game fan then pick it up so you can see the gorgeous graphics and lighting, 
 but if you not then stay away because there is just not enough substance here to keep you interested 
 for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbierian205
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is an interesting case. When compared against the original and the far superior PGR2, this 
 game looks prettier, sounds better, but has much less of the addicting gameplay and great online 
 that kept me coming back to PGR2 months and years after I bought it. In the gameplay department, 
 this game is the most disappointing. The career mode is back, and this time, kudos are separated 
 from spending money, meaning kudos are basically only used for your strangely useless career rank. 
 Some new events appear along with the return of series staples. These new events are fun at first, 
 but eventually you will groan at the mediocrity of the career mode, especially when you realize 
 you can blow through it in 5-6 hours. There are multiple difficulties but steel, bronze and platinum 
 are reserved for either the really good players or the laughably bad ones. Silver is average in 
 difficulty and Gold sometimes can seem like an obscenely high jump over silver. Overall, the career 
 and stupidly set up online mode didn't hold my attention for long.
  
  Now, for this game's gem. Graphics and Audio. Although these are arguably the least important element 
 of game design, for this game they are absolutely vital. The WOW factor is high the first time 
 you boot up this beauty and realize all those trailers you've watched were actual gameplay movies. 
 Even more impressive than the spot on cars are the jaw droppingly gorgeous environments. This is 
 as close as you are going to get to actually driving a car through any of these cities without 
 actually doing it. Also, the in-car view is mind blowing. Every single sqaure inch of the cockpit 
 is modeled with extreme accuracy. You can even look around while driving to admire this sight (though 
 it isn't advised) Also, the audio is amazing. Every car has its own distinct sound, and as far 
 as I can tell, they are all spot on. The soundtrack is odd and pretty lackluster, so I opted for 
 custom soundtracks instead. (which works very nicely, I might add)
  
  While PGR3 has amazing graphics and sound, a short and sour career mode and uninspried online make 
 it a very forgettable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PR3D4TOR2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Like i said it's not all about graphics in this game, what i really liked in this game is the in-car 
 view all realistic shaking and incredible sound, you dont have to have 5.1 or 7.1 it's enough to 
 have 2.1 or even little better tv wiht good dolby digital sound to hear all the noises but it dont 
 matter if you have old tv and old mono speakers in it you will be able to enyoy it too like others 
 it not all about graphics but about gameplay, if you are the owner of gold membership card you 
 can even compete in online carrer mode wich is soo fun you dont wanna miss it, well there is 80 
 cars all of them are uniqe, and when you unlock all the garages you can store maximum of 84 cars 
 but you ask yourself if the game has 80 cars why do you have maximum 84 cars ? well it's simple 
 some player just like to add 4 the best cars in whole game in the end garage and in thier must 
 cool color, the game in fact has many diffrent ways, why dont you taste it for your self i telling 
 you it's really cool and fun
  
  all mean drivers bust ASAP get this game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hullaballo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 was the first game I purchased for my 360 and I was initialy impressed 
 with the gameplay and graphics although after a whie the car models start looking less and less 
 "unprecedented" as the back of the case implies. All beefs aside this game has a phenominal selection 
 of music and number of tracks which are sure to be enjoyed by any gamer or music lover. The new 
 incar view although it takes a little while to get use to is were this game stands out for me, 
 the change in volume of the engine and the sense of speed and life like driving feel from this 
 view make for a more intense racing experiance. Although this game will not take you more than 
 10 hours to complete on bronze or silver difficulty setting there are enough features and extras 
 including xbox live support for up to 8 racers to keep you coming back for a while longer. Without 
 an Xbox Live Gold membership the online career is not excessable so to fully experiance this game 
 you basicaly need to get Live. Overall this game is worth more than renting for PGR or racing fans. 
 But does dissapoint in some areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This game looks amazing and is the best of the 3 racing games in the 360's launch
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Career is fun while it lasts, good track creator, has great cars
  Bad: Not 
 much variety it multiplayer
  
  Graphics
  Good: Car modelling is mind-blowing awesome, in car view is the best in car view ever, locales 
 look good too
  Bad: Damage modelling is barely there
  
  Sound
  Good: Great FX, Great variety in the soundtrack
  Bad: Some songs just don't belong in the soundtrack
 
  
  Value
  Once you beat the game on career (which takes 10-12 hours depending on the difficulty you play 
 on) there is no real reason to go back and play that. But testing your skills on Xbox Live is where 
 you need to play.
  
  Overall
  If your looking for a racing game with beautiful graphics. This is your game.
  If your looking 
 for a racing game that will keep you hooked for a while. This is your game. If your looking for 
 a racing game that is pure fun. This is your game. If you have an Xbox 360 you need this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainCrazy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  If you've got an Xbox 360 and want a racing game then look no further. There is no other racing 
 game on the system that offers as much as PGR3 does. It is a remarkably polished game for a launch 
 title because it has the advantage of two excellent predecessors to build upon. Although PGR3 does 
 not offer anything entirely new compared to the previous games other than graphics, it is an excellent 
 showpiece for your new system and a heck of a lot of fun to play alone, when friends come over 
 or online.
  
  You've probably already read Gamespot's review and several others so I will keep most of the rest 
 of this review in point form to quickly outline the pros and cons.
  
  Pros:
  
     Graphics consist of extremely detailed, true to life environments for the race track locations. 
 New York Time's Square has the actual stores and signage you will see in real life... even MacDonald's! 
 Tokyo at night is a glitz of neon and bright lights and billboards all down the long stretches 
 of highways that just might distract you enough to slam right into a wall.
  
     The game lets you walk around garages housing all the cars you've bought and splashes them down 
 with the most beautiful lighting effects you've ever seen.
  
     The cockpit view besides being an awesome graphical showpiece helps to immerse you into the 
 feeling of really driving one of the world's most powerful sports cars and you can even see bits 
 of dust collect on the window!
  
     Very consistent smooth frame rate with only very slight amounts of slow-down.
  
     Healthy 
 dose of features and options for different play modes and a fairly long career mode.
  
     Many different types of unique exotic cars to choose from that each have their own distinct 
 nuances and handling characteristics making it fun to try and master each one.
  
     Five difficulty modes that make the game as easy or as hard as you want and the ability to change 
 difficulty any time you want.
  
     PGR3 has just the right amount of arcade vs. realism in the physics so the game is challenging 
 yet doesn't get boring like in Ridge Racer 6.
  
     Play time mode lets you jump into any race with any car and show off the game to friends or 
 play multiplayer without having to unlock everything first.
  
     Online career mode does a great job of measuring your skill and matching you up with fair competition. 
 Playing online can be very fun and rewarding depending on who you play with and it really extends 
 the replay value on this game.
  
     Entering a race online is very easy and usually fast.
  
     The sound effects are loud and 
 realistic and the car's engine notes are varied and unique to each car. Music is surprisingly good 
 and even has some classical in there which believe it or not is somehow appropriate!
  
  Cons:
  
     Apparently Xbox 360 is not the end of jaggies like Peter Moore said because this 
 game has noticeable jaggies in garage mode and even some while racing.
  
     Although the game is in high definition and looks very clear, there is still aliasing and texture 
 "crawling" of distant objects as they move closer while racing.
  
     Even though the cars look very realistic, they seem to be missing some advanced lighting effects 
 and texturing during races which makes them look a little plain and flat looking.
  
     Lower than expected polygon count on some car models.
  
     Not much variety of race types 
 so it makes offline career a little repetitive.
  
     Online career mode does not have enough different race venues to choose from and only a few 
 of them are popular among other players.
  
     When playing in online career mode there is no way to enter the same race again with the same 
 players for rematches which is a real shame because sometimes you have so much fun with certain 
 players and want to stay with them longer than one race.
  
     Some of the race events online take a long time to fill the lobby requiring you to twiddle your 
 thumbs for maybe 3-4 minutes before the race starts.
  
     The warning "game experience online may change" is so painfully true because there is no telling 
 from race to race who you will be going up against. Most of the time there will always be one or 
 two people who just want to wreck you and generally annoy the other racers making it very frustrating 
 at times.
  
     This may be more of a preference issue but I do not like the online ranking system. Depending 
 on how you raced, you're score is uploaded and compared to everyone else who plays the game. But 
 instead of it ranking you between 1 - the best player in the world to the worst player, it divides 
 the ranking into leagues so that league 1 is from 1-1000 top players and league 2 is from 1000-2000 
 top players. I just don't like this ranking system because I want to know exactly where I'm at 
 on the totem pole.
  
     To be competitive online you are almost always forced to use a Ferrari since they tend to be 
 the top overall performing cars, used by 95% of players, but I wished the developers could have 
 implemented some kind of balancing for online play so that people could choose the cars they like 
 but still have a chance to beat a Ferrari.
  
  Overall, PGR3 is a solid semi-sim/arcade racer that has its own unique style that should satisfy 
 most racing fans. Hardcore racing sim fans will be disappointed and might want to wait for the 
 next Forza game. For most people though, this is the game to have for fast paced online racing 
 action but has a bit less replay value if you're not on Xbox Live. I would recommend this game 
 as a definite buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobstos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3. i only have 2 words to say about this game, and those words are "Holy 
 @$#%".
  
  seriously, this game makes perfect sense. it shows off the next gen hardware beautifully, and it 
 is a solid racing game in its own right. it has the exact same feel as PGR 1 and 2 had, and that 
 is a very good thing. if it aint broke, dont fix it. there is hundreds of cars to choose from, 
 and many race tracks to keep the variety well into the game. the AI is treacherously good, and 
 the pace is fast. really fast. just picture yourself in the driver's seat of an Enzo Ferrari, going 
 down the Manhattan bridge at 180 miles an hour, looking around and seeing the beautiful blurring 
 effects, HDR lighting, and Anti-Aliasing. when it all comes down to it, this game is worth getting. 
 hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heretic1987
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  For any one who likes racing games, this is a must own, the cars feel amazing. The handling of 
 each car is unique. The graphics are awesome, every aspect of this game is great, they did a great 
 job with this sequel. Its not hard to master, takes a couple of races to get use to the controls, 
 the amount of cars is great, every car from ford to ferrari. I just wish that they would have the 
 porsche cars, but they do have Rufs in the game, so they were cool. Each car sounded great, everything 
 was right, no glitches were seen while playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobcat63
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  I have just recently purchased this game about a week ago. My roommate and I have played it almost 
 nonstop since. The graphics are out of this world. The career mode is too short though. The first 
 night of playing we had almost beaten half the game. The different degrees of difficutly are a 
 nice touch to the game. Another thing that I enjoyed was the varying difficulty with each car. 
 This makes it so you can't go buy a fast car and come back and win the easier races on platinum 
 too easily. But I recommend this game to any and all the car lovers out there. In my opinion it 
 is worth the 50 bucks to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 21, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice about PGR3 is how beautiful and rich everything looks. Car fanatics 
 ensure you are sitting down or you will go weak at the knees. It is that amazing. The offline career 
 mode isn't anything new or impressive and those who played the second in the series will be left 
 wanting more, like new modes. PGR will present quite a challenge regardless of their skill, because 
 Hardcore will make you go sleepless for weeks. But the real gem has to be playing others over XBOX 
 LIVE letting you chat with them while goin 230mph at the Nurburgring. PGR2 had radio channels which 
 you could listen to, now there's a CD changer where you can choos the games music, or plug in your 
 iPod or supported MP3 player and speed along to your own tunes. Hopefully Bizarre will make some 
 downloadable content for things like new cars (a new Mini would be nice) or some new cities and 
 tracks, because the game does feel a little limited at times.
  
  Cheers for reading TKQ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OtisTheBunny
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham was the original Xbox's versian of GT. It was exclusive to the system and had 2 
 pretty sucessful games. Now the 360 has come out and PGR3 has joined Perfect Dark Zero and Call 
 of Duty 2 with the responsibility of showing the world that this system is the real deal. Launch 
 games are so important, and I have to say that microsoft couldnt have picked extremely well in 
 releasing PGR3 in the launch, for it wont only satisfy racing fans but it definately shows off 
 the systems power. 
  
  PGR3 is a beautiful game. Absolutly gorgeous. Photorealistic environments. This is gonna make the 
 people working on Vision GT sweat, cause its crazy just how good these cars look. Not only that 
 but the game also features some pretty great audio. Great sounds of motors and crashes and the 
 slidding and all that good stuff. Not only that but PGR3 has one of the most diverse soundtracks 
 ever in any game. The radio features your typical rap, rock, and pop stations but there is also 
 things like opera and even J-pop (which is pretty damn rare) . 
  
  As for the actual gameplay goes, PGR3 plays a lot like the originals, which is not bad. It still 
 revolves around the kudos system, which is pretty much driving with style, things like making really 
 sharp turns and stuff like that give you kudos which you can use to unluck any of the games wide 
 variety of cars. There is a ton of different events and stuff in the single player mode to really 
 keep you busy. The single greatest feature of PGR3 is the new first in car view of racing, which 
 is just incredible. With the great graphics and the superb sense of speed and the cool motion blur 
 effect, its really quite AWESOME. 
  
  The multi-player is also a great highlight of the game, that is not only fun but really helps sell 
 the 360's awesome online capabilities. The game will set you up in unranked or ranked matches (where 
 you will be matched up with similarily skilled oppenents) in the games multiple differnent modes. 
 The real innovative and original aspect of PGR3 is gotham TV, which allows you to watch other people 
 race. You can see the best in the world go at it. This sounds kinda dumb at first, but its actually 
 pretty cool. If your tired and worn out of playing, you can just watch gotham TV and see the best 
 of the best race (maybe even learn some tricks) . It really is a cool feature that I can see a lot 
 of other games in the future doing. 
  
  Overall PGR3 is quite a showcase for the 360. It shows off the games graphical power and plays 
 better than most other driving games out there. If you have a 360 and you like racing games then 
 this is the game for you, but either way, its still just a very superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  For those people who love realism in racing games this is the game for you. First off the number 
 one thing this game throws at you is the graphics, they are amazing. Also the cars and detail are 
 really good. 
  The realism in this game is awesome and its one of the only racing games i like because it takes 
 skill and you need to know what your doing in order to be one of the best.
  If you dont have live this game will get boring because it offers a short single player career, 
 but on live it is one of the best.
  
  If your looking for a good racing game get this one. You wont be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: txbagz4fun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  PGR 3 is amazing in every catorgory i can think of. The slick smooth gameplay PGR 3 is up there 
 for on of my fav. all-time racing games. Online is addictive and fresh with the great feature of 
 gotham tv puting yourself right in the action 24/7. The 1st person view is the best and most addictive 
 way to drive in the game so push that lb button quick. This game will be in ur 360 for weeks and 
 months to come. Writing over 100 words a review is very very very very gay and everyone is the 
 organization knows it opinon bass hahahaha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Just to start off, this is one of the best looking launch games for 360. All of the cars are spot 
 on and look amazing. There is also a beautiful motion blur effect when your driving. The faster 
 you go, the more beautiful it gets. Besides the graphics, the single player is good, but the multiplayer 
 is great. In multiplayer you can watch Gotham TV, watch other races, or you can race. The achievements 
 are also pretty balanced. Giving you short term ones and then some pretty long term ones. The only 
 problems I had were, 1-Single Player is abit short, compared to Gran Turismo 4, Forza Motorsport
 
  2-The Ferrari F50 GT isnt realistic at all (its control, im talking about)
  One more good thing is you can play 4 mins. of Geometry Wars 1 and 2. Overall I highly recommend 
 Project Gotham 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  hey maybe this is just me, but i dont think that pgr lives up to the 360 hype. im not a long time 
 fan of the series but i sold my ps2 when i got my 360, along with gran turismo 4, and to be perfectly 
 honest gt4 looked just as good and had 3 times the car selection... im new to the series here but 
 as far as mind blowing graphics go i think nobody here has ever played gran turismo! the playability 
 is good and the sound is good, and the learning curve is just right but, as for this being a heavy 
 hitter in the 360 arsenal, im not impressed. thats just my opinion, so dont hate on me, read more 
 reviews because everybody else seems to love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4890
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  to cut to the chase, you need to buy this game if you own a 360. the sheer quality is amazing, 
 and your value for money is great.
  
  Graphics- the graphics look stunning even in normal def. but to get the most out of pgr3, you need 
 to see in hi def. its a life changing experience. the cars look extra life like and the scenery 
 is just... wow!
  
  Sound- The car sounds are excellent, and are a real life represtentaion of that very car. the screeching 
 is just right! the soundtrach is great, and has a wide variety of music including classical, techno, 
 and errmmm the streets.
  
  gameplay- in novice and easy modes, this is no challenge, but just you try platinum! the cars handle 
 superbly, and xb live has no slowdown. i highly recommend you play pgr3 on live, because its great.
 
  
  value- this is gunna last you for months to come. not GTA length, but still... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbuckey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is by no means Gran Turismo for the Xbox 360, but in my opinion that's a good thing. Tweaking 
 every little spec on my car, tuning the rear spoiler to give just the right amount of wind resistance... that's 
 not for me. It just takes away from time I can spend blowing past my opponents in races. I'm the 
 kind of guy who wants an "auto upgrade" button in the "tuning" section of my racing game. All I'm 
 going to do is pick the upgrade/update that gives me the most bang for my buck, so why not do it 
 for me? PGR3 doesn't have any tuning involved but it does have a whole lot of cars suited to different 
 styles of racing and different skill levels. In the beginning of the game you'll get enough credits 
 to buy a decent beginner vehicle and even at the novice level you'll accumulate credits so fast 
 that you'll be buying upgrades frequently. You can also test drive any car before you buy it (even 
 the ones you can't afford, which is cool) .
  
  I've only played the offline career mode enough to discuss so that's what this review is mostly 
 talking about, but I do have one comment to make about the online career mode. I only tried it 
 once (so far) and the guys I was in the race with were less than... well recreational. They were 
 unfriendly and downright rude in most cases and did not welcome a newbie into the race by any means. 
 They were friendly and cordial to each other, but once they saw I was "unranked" as of yet they 
 were nothing of the sort towards me. This is not a reflection of the game itself, but of the community 
 and by far it's not enough to make a final judgement, but it's something that will keep me from 
 trying online mode again for a while.
  
  As for the offline career mode it's absolutely immersive. There are five degrees of difficulty 
 levels and they range from Novice to Hardcore. Novice level is just that, it's for complete PGR 
 Novices and should only be played by people who've never played it before. If you've played PGR 
 and understand how things work, start on Easy difficulty or you'll find that there's very little 
 challenge to the races. Each difficulty level provides tougher competition and/or more difficult 
 goals/tasks to complete which add quite a bit of replayability to this game. Especially considering 
 beating the game on each difficulty level will reward you with a different achievement.
  
  If you're a car buff you'll enjoy the Garage features in PGR3. You get one 4 car garage to start 
 the game and once you fill it up you'll get another one to store your prize possessions in. You 
 can "walk" around the garage and check out your rides and even take pictures of them. It's kinda 
 neat and allows you a pretty cool way to see your vehicles and their stats.
  
  My only complaint about the game is the soundtrack. It includes mostly "indie" bands/artists and 
 some genres of music I've never heard of and to be honest I barely notice that it exists most of 
 the time. I don't even notice that there's music playing except at the beginning of the race when 
 they show the artist/song information. But with the ability to play your own songs from the hard 
 drive this is really a non-issue.
  
  All in all PGR3 is a great balance between racing sim and arcade racer which is exactly what I 
 was looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kike_u80
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay. Its is a very relistic driving game. You almost feal you are driving a car.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are awesome even if you play withou a HDTV. And as the back part of the 
 games box says "The game comes to live ina an HDTV and 5.1The effects are great. When you play 
 inside the car, as a driver itself, the sun effects and light effects look great! When you play 
 outside the car the enviroment looks better.
  
  Sound - 5.1 = AMAZING! Driving comes to live! As you choose a different view while you drive the 
 sound changes. And in each view is amazing!
  
  Value = short game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomgamer27
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  wow im speechless. such a great package with incredibly addicting races topped with the best visuals 
 and sound in a game for the 360 i have played (besides COD 2) . the view inside the car is the most 
 realistic part to me. races online or off is well worth playing whether ur playing a buddy or duking 
 it out in the single player career. im definitely gonna lose sleep over this one. online is limited 
 to 8 players what a shame, but enough content is here to keep even the most eager player interested. 
 custom routes, ability to save pictures and replays of your best races, where does it end? When 
 it comes down to it , a realistic racer but also a more immersive and easier one than almost all 
 other racers i have played. easily the top recommend to any gamer in general.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmantey
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the best 360 game out at launch. The graphics are the best I have ever seen 
 and the in car camera view is the best thing in racing game I have seen in a while. The sound is 
 really good, I also love the fact that I can listen to my own tunes on my IPOD while getting first 
 place online. The difficulty is just right bc there are so many settings. The gameplay is a good 
 mix between realism and arcade. The online is the best I have ever played since Halo 2. You can 
 make your own custom party or join one, set it up just how you want it. This has to be my favorite 
 racing game. I recommend this to every 360 owner who likes racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJellyBirdx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 for the Xbox 360 is revolutionary in the sense of what the 360 can truely 
 do with racing games. It has the graphics, the gameplay and the deep "gothem career" mode to set 
 it above the rest. However, it does tend to get coring from time to time, usually being after several 
 hours of gameplay, but with its career mode being so long and the game being so fun you will find 
 yourself running back to it.
  
  Gameplay: Terrific. If you use the first person camera angle it actually feels like you are driving 
 the car. Bizarre Creations has really mastered the art of racing games comming into the third one 
 as the feel for the car has to be played to believed.
  
  Graphics: Truley spectacular. Everything from the buildings on the side of the road to the blades 
 of grass in the park are extremely clear which further enhances your gaming experience. 
  
  Sound: Very realistic. Im at the point now where I dont need to look at the RPM bar to know when 
 to shift, I can just listen to my engine. Its remarkable, the sound of the engine mirrors the one 
 of a real car so perfectly. And then comes the soundtrack. Some songs fit right along with the 
 racing theme but then you have the symphonies... You'd think you were playing Batman.
  
  Value: Tough competition. With games like "Need for Speed" and "Full Auto" on the market, Project 
 Gotham gets much less credit but it still is the best of its class.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Everyone loves it... almost. Phanominal game as most people have given it good 
 reviews, and the game deserves it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spindler01
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  In all this game is a disappointment. After a promising start to the series, on next-gen consoles 
 we were expecting a little more than wat's been included in this title.
  
  It's not all bad though. The 360's graphical power has been used to make possibly the best looking 
 game ever made. Everything looks so realistic, from the car models to the environments and the 
 use of lighting. It's a very polished game, and a lot of effort has gone into making this look 
 the part, so it would be harsh to completely write this game off.
  Also the soundtrack is very vaired, letting you choose from a variety of genres. Also the sound 
 effects sound pretty realistic, with the sound changing in tunnels and things like that.
  
  But the physics are quite unforgiving, and for a game so orientated about drifting, it doesn't 
 make it easy for you. Maybe that's to be expecting, but this is no "pick up and play" title, it 
 requires an amount of skill, even on the silver difficulty levels.
  
  All in all, this is probably a good title for those who enjoy driving sims, and it's a huge graphical 
 acheivement, but the gameplay deteriorates over time, so don't be fooled by a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1Lengend
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Now, if you are reading this around the time it was published, than you owe it to yourself to get 
 this game, for a few reasons.
  
  1) the competition is REALLY lacking and even games that arent in this genre is lacking.
  
 
  2) This is a really good game.
  
  3) Its cheaper than most of the other titiles.
  
  Although this game is great, i dont feel its as good as pgr2 for its time. Let me start with the 
 graphics. Sure they are great, but i found issues with Tvs that are not 720p native (1080i native) . 
 this can lead to a substantial amount of jaggies. i tested it on 2 51inch hdtvs. and the 720p model 
 looked much smoother. According to the developer, half the amount of polys on the cars were dedicated 
 to the interior, and half to the exterior. Now, while the interior looks great, it is hardly used, 
 and i wished they put all the amount into the exterior. the enviornments are great, however they 
 quickly get stale due to the lack of variety. This is still one of the better looking games at 
 launch.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as pgr2 but with a little bit of a different feel. the cars 
 are all faster with no economy class found in pgr2. personally this doesnt matter to me much, but 
 i have heard complaints. What i found is that with pgr2, the tracks were much more fun to play, 
 and the game felt funner. PGR3 is much more forgiving this time around, and i feel it cuts into 
 the depth of the game. I understand this is an arcade driving game, but i still enjoyed pgr2s gameplay 
 a little more. the career mode is a total let down. instead of working your way through missions 
 and upgrading your cars as you move, you have the option to buy any car you wish off the bat. This 
 leads to people online purchasing the F50gt and totally disregarding the lower class cars. it also 
 makes the game feel cheap in a sense. 
  
  The most outstanding part of the game is the sound. Besides having poor crash sound effects, everything 
 from the tire squelling, to the roar of the engines, inside and out, sound perfect. 
  
  The online is as great as ever, with rarely any lag, however i didnt like the ranking system. i 
 enjoyed the menu setup of pgr2 more and the fact that you can invite your friends into online CUSTOM 
 made games. now i know the old system was abused, but it was much more fun.
  
  Overall, i would like to have seen more damage on the vehicles, and environments that have more 
 life to them. Maybe rollercoasters hovering over the tracks, THAT WORK. things of this nature...
 
  
  as a big pgr2 fan i found my self disappointed with this game.. Not at first, but later on as i 
 continued to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kamarangatang
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3, is the long awaited sequel to Project Gotham Racing 2. With stunning next-gen 
 graphics and exotic cars, the game has much to offer. Versatiliy in numbers offers the greatest 
 variable to the cars. With licences to cars like the Mclaren F1 LM and the Ferrari Enzo the game 
 makes great use of its ability to portray all of its cars with unmatched detail and realism, from 
 the gorgeous headlights to the luxurious interiors of Ferrari's and Lambourghinis.
  
  The game plays very well, with little flaws and has a range of difficulty levels, from Novice to 
 Hardcore (a **** at times) . It doesn't have an amazing range of areas but it does present them in 
 the upmost detail. 
  Could have been a little bit better, but not complaining, worth the cash.
  
  The online modes 
 are fun to play, but there are too many synical take outs and uneeded scrap ups on the roads. You 
 just have to be good to avoid them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yanks5759
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I normally do not enjoy racing games of any kind but the word on the street with regards to this 
 game was something that I had to check out for myself. I was not disappointed. The game has excitment 
 and edge of your seat thrills. I love having so many tracks to race on from so many locations around 
 the world. The graphics are amazing and the detail with regards to the surounding landscape is 
 fantastic. I like having actual cars to chose from and not some souped up race car that is so unrealistic. 
 I truly enjoy the time trails and the on line game sounds like fun. By far the best racing game 
 that I have ever tried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  A Must Buy For The 360!
  This game looks great, plays great, and is... well it is just a great game. Project Gotham Racing 
 3 clearly designates itself as possibly one of the most realistic racing games to date. Its amazing 
 graphics are supported by a challenging career mode, and a very fun online gaming zone. I think 
 the multiplayer set-up could have been a little better... but I'm surely not downing it for that. 
 PGR3 gives the player a true European racing feeling, instead of the street race that most games 
 imply. The reapperance of Numerenburg is a nice reminder to the pervious Project Gotham games and 
 is still a favorite among online gamers. The one thing that also allows PGR3 to stand alone from 
 the pack, is that it takes some actual racing skill to play. Instead of giving everyone a realtively 
 easy learning curve... developing skills is a must for this game. If you can't drift forget those 
 gold achievements. Anyways, I highly suggest this game for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soulatman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I loved Project Gotham 2 on the Xbox, so when I heard about this game, and saw the screenshots, 
 my gamers tastebuds were twitching. I needed this game. I got this game, and I was not in anyway 
 dissapointed.
  
  1. GRAPHICS
  
  Before I say anything about the gameplay, the longevity or anything else, I need to tell you folks 
 about the visuals in this game. They are Serious!!!
  This game looks so good, it is hard to put into words, and I don't even have a high def TV. 
 
  
  The car models themselves are absolutely stunning, and to my reckoning, faultless. All the beautiful 
 curves and edges are there to be drooled over, and the sheen and reflections is nothing short of 
 breathtaking. You can (and will if your anything like me) spend hours just walking around your 
 garages, admiring the bodywork and details of the dream cars you have purchased. Lets face it, 
 it is the closest most of will come to owning any of these supercharged orgasms on wheels, and 
 I swear, you can almost smell the leather interiors, the exhaust smoke and a hint of burned rubber 
 *sigh*. Oh wait, I left that kipper under the grill. 
  
  Seriously, these cars look just as impressive in motion as they do stationary. There is a very 
 realistic blur effect which delivers a real sense of speed, coupled with locations which are incredibly 
 realistic. 
  If you live in any of the locatons in which the game is set (London, Tokyo, New York, Las Vegas 
 and Nordschleif) , trust me, you will spend a long time sightseeing, and going "wow". They really 
 put alot of work into the locations. They must have extensively photographed these places, coz 
 they just look unbelievably accurate. Some places buildings arent as sharp as others when you close 
 up in photo mode, but they still surpass everyother game that has ever tried to recreate a cityscape 
 with any degree of realism. You will find yourself wanting to walk off track, and explore these 
 rich recreations. I myself am a Londoner, and I still find my self going "I didn't know that was 
 there" or "wow, I can't believe they got this in the game". 
  As I mentioned earlier, the photo mode will allow you to walk around the city's and really explore 
 the level of detail ravished on this game, and it is very compelling. 
  
  The interiors of the cars are also absolutely beautiful, the incredibly detailed dashboard, the 
 mirrors reflecting accurately the surroundings and the light reflecting off the windshield and 
 side windows REALLY puts you in the vehicle. I mean REALLY! For me personally, this is the most 
 satisfying way to drive, and I find that I can still compete well with others in online races in 
 the cockpit view, though if I am really hard pressed for first place, nothing beats the bumper 
 cam.
  
  Summing up the visuals in drool factor- somebody get me supply of towels, an industrial sized bucket 
 and mop.
  
  2. SOUNDS
  
  The Music in the game for me ain't all that. Music is accessd via the d-pad, a flick up or down 
 switches stations, and each station is dedicated to a particular genre like Rock, Hip hop or classical. 
 A couple of very cool tracks and alot of other take it or leave it stuff is on offer, but this 
 is just my opinion, many love the tunes. I especially liked the classical station as it was a novelty 
 for me, and really is the only station to have when driving around in the old aston martin, or 
 jaguar don't ya know.
  The game sounds though really are OUTSTANDING. When you switch views, the tone and volume of the 
 engine and ambient noise change to reflect your view. When in the car, the noises really give you 
 that in car sound, and each car has a very satisfying and immersive engine noise and wheel skreetch. 
 Top Notch!
  
  3. GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is also incredibly satisfying. The 360 controller gives very precise control over 
 each vehicle, and each car feels, sounds, handles and performs very differently. It takes time 
 to get used to many cars, so you may find yourself coming back frequently to the more accessible 
 cars, but given a little time and patience, you will learn to drive many different auto's with 
 different driving styles. 
  For cornering, the motto is one of slow in and fast out, and as each car brakes and accelerates 
 differently, this will mean it takes time to get it just right with your car of choice. After a 
 while though, you will find each cars sweet spot, and maneuvering these beauties with skill and 
 precision feels incredibly rewarding.
  The KUDOS system rewards good driving, and is important for buying new vehicles. The better, faster 
 and more stylish you drive, the more KUDOS you earn, and the more cars you can buy. It also helps 
 you rank up on leaderboards. So if you get a great time, and some other guy also has the same time, 
 the person with the most KUDOS for that race places higher on the leaderboard.
  Aside from races, there are other modes like beat the cones where you have to drive round a course 
 with cones laid out along the track. Drive through the cones, in the time limit, with style to 
 earn the required amount of KUDOS to pass, and various other modes.
  Online gameplay is awsome, and very addictive. There is just something so satisfying about playing 
 other realworld rivals, and each race is gonna be very different from the last. The microphone 
 chat can also be really cool, but also really anoying if you get some 12 yr old who has overdosed 
 on orange juice screaming down the mic, or worse, a 40 yr old.
  
  4. LONGEVITY
  
  This game will keep you coming back for more and more. The challenges all have bronze, silver, 
 gold or platinum medals to be achieved, so once you get all the bronzes, you will find yourself 
 plugging away at it to get silver, gold and so on (especially if you are an acheivment whore like 
 me) . This will take a while, believe me.
  You will not quickly tire of the gameplay, becuase it is so satisfying, and almost like a new game 
 each time you try a new car. 
  Online mode will keep you trying improve your rating against the world, and who knows, attain that 
 coveted number one spot out of tens of thousands.
  That is a challenge I don't reckon I will achieve in this lifetime, but some of you might. 
  
 I am sure, that of all the games released at launch, this one is the one people have continually 
 come back to over the last few months, it will last a very, very long time.
  
  5. SUMMARY
  If you like racing games, shell out 45 british nuggets ($?) for this oh so gorgeous 
 game. It is a piece of art, a thing of utter beauty, the single most impressive racing game ever 
 created. This game has set a new precedent for racing titles, and has I am sure opened up a new 
 standard of beauty and gameplay in the racing genre which developers will now strive to achieve 
 and surpass. All I can say to the developers of PGR3 is "thank you, for causing me to waste more 
 time than is healthy creating a pool of drool on my living room floor while playing this stunner".
 
  GET IT, NOW!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katfish77
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good : 
  Very realistic graphics, extremely nice car physics, great online mode, very sophisticated lobby with 
 nice interface and user friendly atmosphere, good range of cars and realistic sound effects.
  
  The Bad : Loading time are very long and tedious, maybe some more features from the last installment 
 and yellow flag rule addition could have been nice as online can get a bit rough.
  
  This game defines what a racing game should be, something really fun. The game is not all simulator 
 there is also a touch of arcade like feeling (that little hint of Burnout) which adds a really 
 good touch to the game unlike Forza which is souly a simulator.
  
  There are several modes in the game which are really fun and innovative. If you want to have a 
 good time playing alone then Gotham career which basically has a trophy collecting objective. Finish 
 all the missions in each tournament and then progress to the next tournament. Its a really simple 
 formula which works really well. But the only bad thing about Gotham career is that sometimes you 
 just feel its a tad bit short. The game system is pretty much similar to the previous game in the 
 series collect credits and buy cars to make your driving better and collect kudos to increase your 
 ranking and unlock stuff. The Kudos system still works and is a very good feature to a racing game.
 
  
  Then you have "Gotham TV" a really nice innovative mode that lets you see over 80,000 people race 
 and look at there ability and may give you some tips on how to take one of those really tight corners. 
 Also the other addition in "Gotham TV" is that there is a "Heroes Channel" which lets you see the 
 highest ranked people and gives you some idea how they race that good.
  
  The maps are good but not a huge array, of them a bit more could have been helpful and many players 
 might have want to see the F1 circuits but Bizarre could not get the licenses for them. Also sometimes 
 the circuits do get a bit tad boring in "Gotham Career" when you play them again and again in each 
 tournament.
  
  Now the best bit of the game is the online mode. The online mode has shown once again that Xbox 
 Live is really the way to play online gaming. The lobby is extremely nice and easy to handle whilst 
 the nifty little things make it a great online experience. The online mode is linked with your 
 "Gotham Career" because you have to earn credits in your "Gotham Career" to buy the car in which 
 you want to race online with. The online mode has really been thought out ie: the different classified 
 cars separated into different mini servers in the game. Also the online feature in Xbox Live gives 
 you an area to play ie: pro or underground or family which really helps you on how other people 
 behave. The online formula is a true joy and should be played if you get the game
  
  Now on to the graphics.... The graphics of the game are great but sometimes you just expect a little 
 bit more considering its a "next gen" game. When I first played the game I thought the graphics 
 were not even better but once you look at the things in your car garage and very nice car effects 
 it really immerses you into the game. I say again that you obviously would expect more from "next 
 gen" but you could see Bizarre have really amped up the graphics. Also the current discs of games 
 dont use manipulate all 6 threads of the powerful Xbox 360 therefore the graphics will improve 
 by time.
  
  The sound is also really meaty as the cars really grunt and rev when you want them to and make 
 the real life sounds. I watch this show called "Top Gear" in England and they say that the TVR 
 Sagaris really makes a huge beefy noise and in the game it really made the same noise as real life. 
 And with surround sound the game just sounds awesome. The in game soundtrack could have a had a 
 bit more variety and more famous songs but on the whole a really good car soundtrack.
  
  Overall this is a really good game which gives you a simulator with a hint of arcade and great 
 value. The online play is exceptionally good and makes the gaming experience much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Well the graphics. Ever seen an aston martin dbr9? Ever driven one? No need now just pick up a 
 copy of this game and you will save yourself... well a bit of money. Thats how good this game looks. 
 If you placed a ferrari in this game next to a real ferrari... well you would be able to tell the 
 difference but not by much. But we are nowhere near photorealism and this game is the best we can 
 hope for a couple of years. Ok ok graphics out of the way lets get down to the gameplay. 
  
  The cars are fun to drive. The variety of cars is not the best beacase of bizzares policy for 
 this game but all of them have a distinctive feel. It wont keep you playing as long as say dead 
 or alive 4 but when you are playing nothing else matters. 
  
  This game is a masterpeice pure and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 456060
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This was the very first game i got for my xbox 360 and was really thrilled by the graphics and 
 sound but the gameplay was repitive, boring and really easy. I also noticed that it is really short 
 as well.
  If you have a chance rent this game instead of buying it as you will probably complete it before 
 you have to give it back.
  
  the only good thing in the game other than the sound and the graphics is the playtime feature where 
 you get to build and then race on your own track which is pretty cool.
  
  I can not comment on the online facility as i am unable to play online but by reading other reviews 
 it is pretty good.
  
  Overall the graphics and sound are amazing but the gameplay brings this game back down. if u looking 
 for a good racing game get gran trismo 4 or 5 when it comes out for ps3 nothing beats the gran 
 trismo series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliens1234
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  PGR 3 is better than GT4 for a simple reason. That being that it is actually fun to play. This 
 is not a driving simulation this is a game that expresses the speed and feel of a race better than 
 any other game out there.
  
  The graphics are the first thing to notice. They are extremely good, with each car and track modelled 
 down to the finest detail. Of the cars featuring in PGR3, you will not find a mini or a golf, there 
 are only fast cars for fast, exciting races. Some of the biggest names make appearances such as 
 Ferraris and Lambos (that you won't find on GT4) .
  
  When in a race, the most noticeable difference (apart from the graphics) is the new view that puts 
 you right in the driving seat. Not only do you get the full view of the steering wheel and hands 
 of the driver, but there has been a great ammount of effort put into making the windshield look 
 like its there as it gathers dust that reflects sun light in a most realistic fashion.
  
  As if the graphics were't enough, the sound is even better. The growl of engines creates much more 
 of a presence when compared to previous installments and this can all be best appreciated on a 
 5.1 system.
  
  The Xbox Live multiplayer modes provides extra life to the game with many different features such 
 as the online career mode that follows every ranked game you play over Live. That said it will 
 take a while to complete the single player on hard settings with each race becoming increasingly 
 challenging.
  
  Everyone needs a racing game in their collection. PGR3 is the one to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donut349
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  You would think that with the other racing games that there wasn't that much room for improvement. 
 The pure sense of speed that you feel when you're racing in the game is second to none; also PGR3 
 strays from its roots by being more realistic and having only the fastest cars.
  The cars all handle like their real life counterparts. The in-car view is an amazing addition to 
 the game while in this mode you can use the right stick to pan the camera around yourself while 
 youre driving to get a look around you, you can take pictures and store them. The exterior looks 
 just as good as the inside. The cars are all beautifully detailed. With all the spectators and 
 environmental features it looks simply amazing. This is by far the best looking racing game to 
 date!
  
  You can hear cars approaching from behind you on the side and then pass you by and the sound follows. 
 All the cars make their real engine sounds as well as tire burning. 
  
  Along with the single player is a online campaign as well that will help you see how you rank among 
 others. On top of that it's a multiplayer game and will keep you glued to the wheel as you speed 
 through great looking cities. While your playing the game, you will notice if you drive with "style" 
 you will be awarded with kudos which is a great addition to the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikewrestler5
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a great experience on Xbox 360. With High-Definition Graphics and Great 
 sounds this game is a worthy choice on you Xbox 360. PGR 3 is one of the best racers yet on Xbox 
 360, with all that said there are still some good and bad things about this game.
  
  The Good: Graphics, in car camera angle, Online Mode.
  
  The Bad: No damaging to car, load 
 times
  
  PGR 3 is a great experience and a fun online mode. With that said you can do a lot of things on 
 this game that have never been done on any other racers before. Like In game camera angle which 
 is awesome, photo mode which is one of the best modes on this game!
  
  Career Mode: Is decent could have been a lot better, what makes it so dull is there really no point 
 of it. Collecting trophies gets old fast. Basically all you do is do races.
  
  Online is a really fun experience and great, I suggest you play online for a fun time. Pick any 
 race type custom routes or any cars. And race were ever whenever (Day or Night) Online is a great 
 features in PGR 3. 
  
  Overall this game is probably the best Xbox 360 game imo. Either way I suggest it and racing fans 
 of PGR PGR 2 will love it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurrtySouf
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  After what i been seeing about this game, i thought it was going to be one of the best Racing games 
 out. Where Do I Start.... Imma Summarize my short time of playing this.
  
  Graphics:
  The Graphics Weren't Too Good To Be Truthful, i really expected this to be the best part of the 
 game. But i have to give it to the Grpahics of everything besides the cartoon lookins cars, it 
 was pretty good espically when i saw lights flashing, the viewers taking pictures... but Yeah it 
 has good graphics. (Besides The Cars)
  
  Gameplay/Sound:
  What I Really Hate is im going about 60 m. p. h and i hit a wall KABOOM im turning and twisting everywhere.... first 
 time i did that i was like **** naw.
  But The Sound on the other hand was the best part of the game to me, for some cars that is.
  
 
  Online:
  Yeah, It is very easy to find a unlaggy game and to play against people that actually love/like 
 the game.
  
  But that's all for this. For now, imma Stick to Need For Speed games, until i actually test anymore 
 out.
  
  Souf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeroshift
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows that the 360 really had one shaky start. Out of the entire lineup, there had only 
 been a few games that made it good enough. Project Gotham is one of those games because of the 
 fast, fun-filled, addictive racing that you get from the game. With an addition of stunning graphics 
 and sound, it's the 360's first great racer.
  
  PGRs racing experience is terrific. All the cars are big name brands. You get cars from Ferrari, 
 Aston Martin, Shelby, McLaren, etc. In the beginning, the rewards you get in the game are small (based 
 on what difficulty you choose) , but later on the rewards become bigger, and bigger. Each difficulty 
 in the game would represent how much credits you get. If it's on an easy difficulty, you'll be 
 gettting little credits and vice versa. You also do different racing events such as Street Race, 
 Eliminator, Hot Lap, Time vs Kudos, Cone Challenge, etc. As for how many cars you get is simple. 
 You start off in a small garage that can only hold 4 cars. You buy more than the garage limit, 
 you get another garage that can hold double. You can even walk around your garage and play arcade 
 games there (Geometry Wars) . The solo career is not the only intriging element of gameplay in Gotham, 
 but also the great online, the time trial, the ability to take photos and work on them, etc. 
 
  
  But the one thing that you'll be loving to do is the course creation. In that, you're able to create 
 more than 100 million custom routes. Your options are almost unlimited so that you can create a 
 track of your style. This is one of Gotham's awesome options. The only problems that you would 
 possibly have in the game is how you can lose your car balance easily and the solo career can be 
 repetitive after a while because you end up doing the same things periodicly. Also, the solo career 
 is fairly short and is easy for people who either played the past two Gotham games, or other hardcore 
 racing games (I was able to beat it without any trouble) .
  
  The graphics look awesome, everything looks detailed the same and the race tracks look amazing. 
 All this done by photorealism and it was all worth it at the end. The polished look on the cars 
 look flawless. It almost looked like I was racing with live people. It looked like the graphics 
 were taken to full advantage and they couldn't have looked any better at all. Absolutely wonderful. 
 As for the sound, the engine sounds are better than they used to ever be. The original had both 
 a funky and futuristic flow to it. All the licensed music was great too. The soundtrack had many 
 different catagories of music. You had some Hip-Hop, Rock, and even some Mozart put into the game 
 as racing music. It's great on how you have a racing game such as this and it has all different 
 types of music to suit ones needs in terms of music. A thumbs up indeed.
  
  PGR3 is the best of the 3. It balanced everything that was needed in a racing game and it ended 
 up becoming an awesome racer. This will be the greatest racer for the 360 until another game like 
 Forza Motorsport arrives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wbe_xLink
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Para los fanaticos de la saga PGR el tercer titutulo llegar de inmediato a cumplir como parte 
 de la familia. Con algunas variantes que saltan a la vista, entre ellas la ms vistosa la velocidad.
 
  - Bienvenido Lamborgini y sus coches de lujo.
  - Nburgring: siempre es bueno dar una vuelta por el mejor circuito de todos los tiempos.
  - 
 Tiempo vs. Kudos: una buena manera de probar las habilidades.
  - Dar un recorrido por los garages es asombroso.
  - No siempre hay que conducir, tomar fotos 
 o construir circuitos personalizados son buenas opciones.
  - Project Gotham TV, una buena manera de divertirse y de ver conductores con habilidades increibles.
 
  
  Un buen salto a la consola XBOX 360 (Esperamos muy pronto poder tener compatibilidad en esta consola 
 para sus antecesores)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tischla
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  pgr3 is a great game 4 launch. the gotham tv is a great new feature that should be a part of more 
 games. it has nicely paced acheivements that are challenging but possible. some of the cars r a 
 bit to hard too handle but most of them have a great sense of speed and take a bit to learn but 
 r hard 2 master but very rewarding when u do. havnt got 2 play the online but from wat ive seen 
 its is wat keeps the game from getting boring even 4 a racing game, which usually gets old fast 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happierthanU
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I've never experienced anything like Project Gotham Racing before. The career mode is different. 
 But better than before, you can race any car that you want as long as you can afford one. There 
 isn't the class by class unlockment, the career mode is set up by championships and tours. Graphics 
 are amazing, example, you are racing, and while passing lit up buldings, you will see almost the 
 exact same thing in the reflection on your car. WOW! That's right. The menus are fairly easy to 
 understand and get around. You shouldn't find much difficulty with that. Gameplay, the big steak 
 of the game. The Gameplay is just realistic. When you enter first-person ( or in-car) view, the 
 car bounces over bumps, the engine is just outstanding (audio speaking) , and the gear facing hand 
 will disappear, for switching the gears. Audio-wise, great soundtrack, great SFX of engines, but 
 when you crash...... you'll see for yourself. It's a little tink, that's it!!!! You'll love this 
 game as soon as you buy a car. And if you get bored of tracks, modify existing tracks, and make 
 your own litttle masterpiece. the difficulty settings are plenty, Novice, Easy, Medium, Hard, Hardcore. Greater 
 than others.
  Final- 9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatecena
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 9, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  The Project Gotham Racing series is the only Xbox game series (besides Halo) that is a huge-seller. 
 Now, the latest installment, PGR 3, has made its way onto the Xbox 360. The first thing you'll 
 notice when you play this game is the graphics. The graphics are just excellent and the blur effects 
 are nicely done as well. As we all know, however, the graphics get old after awhile, and then you 
 have three things to rely on to have a great gaming experience: The gameplay, Xbox Live, and listening 
 to music during the loading (which you can also do on the original Xbox) . Whenever the 360 loads 
 up a custom race track, it takes a LONG TIME. I'm not talking 20 or 30 seconds. I'm talking 2-3 
 MINUTES just to load up the custom race. When I first saw this, I thought my game froze up. I kept 
 waiting, and eventually, the game was done loading. I was thankful it didn't freeze up on me, but 
 at the same time, I'm thinking, "Oh my God, the Xbox 360, a system I paid $400 for, just took three 
 minutes to load!?" Wow, that really sucks. Overall, this game is a pretty good game. But considering 
 it is for a Next-Gen console, this game isn't what it's hyped up to be. If your'e a big fan of 
 racing and/or PGR games, I would highly recommend Project Gotham Racing 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apoc112
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  first off, let me say that this is my first game for 360, so my mind was blown just by default. 
 the graphics are beautiful. the car models are spot-on. the feeling of speed seems so realistic 
 (if you have any doubt, look out your window at 180mph) and the ability to look around to check 
 mirrors or peripheral vision is a nice touch.
  
  there are tons of reviews that will gush over the "perfection" of this game, so i'll make this 
 one worth a read. i do have a complaint about the game, and as a racing game conniseur, it's a 
 pretty big one. I am all for driving from the inside view and really getting a feeling of speed 
 from these gorgeous cars, but i am also a devout manual transmission driver. the controls of the 
 game are simply not set up for MT drivers the way microsoft's previous racing endeavors have been. 
 both forza and rallisport challenge give you the ability to shift with the right analog stick, 
 giving the more-than-push-button shifting feel. granted, many of these exotic cars really are outfitted 
 with paddle shifters, so i could even handle the buttons being B for a down-shift and Y for up-shift, 
 but they make it B for up and X for down. All-in-all, there's just too much finger migration and 
 the possibility of hitting the handbrake (A) during frantic shifting can play havoc on your time 
 and kudos.
  
  don't get me wrong, there are some options as far as controller layouts go, but for now, i'm content 
 driving in automatic just to avoid the headaches. a customizable button layout would have been 
 nice, but it's hardly a scratch in the armor of this immaculate game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSlacker
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  P G R 3 is revolutionary, Graphics that you could have only dreamed of for a an xbox 360, with 
 amzingly well designed tracks and cities. Never before have I seen a city with so much detail in 
 it, simply amazing. The racing is pretty realistic and you can reach mind blowing speeds with the 
 higher end cars. The cars are simply amazing, so much detail put into the, and what a selection, 
 many cars to choose from, and many to unlock, which adds for depth to the single player style of 
 gamplay. Multiplayer is simply histarical, you can have a seirous match and race head to head one 
 moment and win by a photofinish, or you can get together with your buds and have an all out no 
 holds bar, who ever makes it across the finish line first wins, anything aloud. AMAZING GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hjart6
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Bizarre creations does it again with its new next-gen racing game.
  My first impressions was the graphics, really great. But the inside of the car doesnt really show 
 the true graphics of the game. (dust one every single car window, with a bad texture. The solo 
 career is kind of short, but if you are planning to get the platinum medals and a full gamescore 
 for the game it will take a bit longer. From the previous versions this game brings a few new race 
 modes. The online career will keep you playing this game for a while. The best feature of this 
 game must be Live TV which lets you check what your friends are doing online, as well you can check 
 the worlds best race.
  The sound is really great, and the soundtrack is great.
  I expected a bit more from a next-gen title. One of the best games at the 360 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing is one of the most realistic racing games to date. The in-cab view is second 
 to none, however the gameplay could be improved. Basically you have 5 levels of difficulty, which 
 it gives you option of picking one before each race. There are 23 tourneys with 3-7 races in each 
 tourney. If you missed Kudos, don't worry they are back. For those of you who hates this aspect 
 of PGR, you might not be impressed. The cars are worth buying this game alone. They are so realistic 
 and each one is different in the way it drives/sounds/reacts. I have enjoyed this game and would 
 recommend it to anyone who is into realistic driving with a decent amount of races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  Great!, Simply great!, I was expecting a very good game, and I wasn't disappointed at all, it was 
 exactly what I was hoping for.
  Amazing shinny graphics, outstanding and "fashion" soundtrack, and one very important point that 
 I didn't see at most reviews I've read - the level design: once can easily realize that developers/testers 
 worked hard at this (side-note: I must confess that I consider multiplayer part of of a game as 
 a side-quest - a must side-quest, but still it is - and the core of the game must be it's single 
 campaign, as I don't want to play video games, and appreciate it's quality, based on other things 
 I can't control: other human beeings) , because when I first played it, I went through the whole 
 career in 'medium' level and I managed to accomplish that just barely, by the time I finish it 
 I was prepared to go for 'hard', and I feel just the same as in 'medium', it was a fight but a 
 fair one, now I'm heading through 'hardcore' and it feels the same (Kudos!) . And then you have 
 the 'novice' that is so, so easy, that it's a good level to let your girlfriend have a try, and 
 she'll feel good for beating it :) !
  Another outstanding point: the sound, it is sooooo cool to drive at 300km/h and listen to LCD Soundsystem, 
 it "knocked my socks off"!
  Love to see a job well done!
  p. s.: X360 haters - open your mind, set yourself free from that silly addiction (Sony, or anything 
 else) , and have tons of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amazingz
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great start out for the xbox 360
  
  Graphics: The grahpics for this game obviously have a big improvment. When going to "More" you 
 are able to walk around your garage and i was amazed at the water and how it was moving , and the 
 cars are simply amazing on a hdtv.
  
  Gamplay: One of the best features of this game is its mode were you see threw the window which 
 was outstanding and i loved it. Other than that it wasnt that amazing and i find that after a month 
 or so you will most certainly get tired of it, or atleast i did..
  
  Overall: This game was good, not amazing, and thats why i recomend everyone to rent this game at 
 a blockbuster, and keep it for like 3 weeks (as you no there is NO LATE FEES at blockbuster) , but 
 if you are a hardcore gamer and love racing games, youd probably want to by it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmassie21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Definitely my favorite launch title of the Xbox 360 and of all time, Project Gotham Racing 3 delivers! 
 Whats weird is it is ten dollars cheaper than most of the other launch titles and its twice as 
 good! Don't even read this review just go out and buy it.
  So in the beginning, you can just race for fun or you can start a career. In career it is simple: 
 you just complete tournaments and blah blah blah, but it is extremely fun. It can be played by 
 little kids or the most experienced gamers (me) because of the 5 different difficulty options.
 
  The game can actually get very hard because the amazing graphics will distract you from the actual 
 gameplay. The controls are nice, very nice, and simple so you can just pick up your controller 
 and play.
  It is very realistic, not just because of the graphics. The cars control like real cars, when you 
 hit a wall you can actually get dents and scratches (hurray?) , and don't even get me started on 
 the first-person "in the driver's seat" view. 
  Your hands turn the steering wheel, you can see out of your mirrors (by using the right analog 
 stick to look around your car) , the speedometer works, and your feet actually press the gas and 
 brake petals at the right time! How cool is that?
  Multiplayer is great, and the whole Gotham TV thing is sort of cool. There are many cars to choose 
 from, and many tracks to choose from in cities such as New York, London, and Tokyo.
  There is so much in this game it is hard for me to put it in words. Here let me try: BUY THIS GAME 
 RIGHT NOW!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alfabilly
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 6, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  wow when i firsed poped this game in to my xbox i thought o my god this game is perfection. but 
 then after i started to look at this game in greater detail and not blown back by the graphics 
 as much even thought they are the best on a xbox so far. I thought this game is not as good as 
 it could be because its the little things like you cant use a quater throtle or half breaks like 
 you an on forza its eather all or nothing and i found this is the greatest letdown withe the game. 
 while i am **** about this game the interior graphics of the cars differs greatlt from car to car 
 som are great but the migority are crap. even though this is the best game i have played, but it 
 is a bit to short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowpet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 6, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  buy it now and not tomorrow. Play it on xbox live and for your self in singleplayer. It's funny 
 to play against other and hear yourself and others saying **** "prick" "basterd", etc. Give it 
 all the way and whwn you win ohh it's a thrill. come on buy it now and we meet on xbox live. Go 
 for it! it is good, amazing, fun, a thrill, sporting, to much for the familie, cars, cars , cars, 
 racing, racing, racing and and and and and i have to say it is the best racing game ever to date. 
 go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go gog ogo go go go 
 go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go go oh **** 
 im out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macemuscle
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 6, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Now Im a big fan of PGR2. It was one of my first Xbox games and I have enjoyed playing it for 
 many many hours over many many months so it was natural for me to have great expectations for 
 PGR3 especially if you believe all the hype and reviews
  
  Alas, PGR3 was a very big disappointment
  
  This was supposed to be a great looking game 
 I dont deny that the visuals are a great improvement from PGR2, but the hype is definitely not 
 justified whats up with all the jaggies? It is a shame when the Xbox 360 is supposed to have 
 great anti aliasing! Did the developers really test this game on a big screen HDTV?? Or is it because 
 they rushed the game to meet the 360s release date??
  
  One of the greatest thing about PGR2 was all the different cities that you can play in I especially 
 enjoyed racing in cities in Europe that I have visited during my travels and recognizing streets 
 and landmarks again PGR3 disappoints by having only a handful of cities with the big bonus towards 
 the end of the Career mode of unlocking the Nurburing track, the most awkward and cumbersome and 
 least fun to drive
  
  Finally, this game is way too short... forget about enjoying it for weeks/months... you can finish 
 career mode in a weekend!
  
  I think the developer should seriously take a closer look at PGR2 and try to redeem themselves 
 with a PGR3 redux!!! Otherwise, what a waste of a great franchise!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RANSACK-YOU
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  PGR 3 raises the bar for driving games. The graphics are top notch, there is plenty of single player 
 fun to be had, and the multiplayer on Xbox Live ROCKS! The PGR series turns some people off due 
 to a fairly high learning curve, but once you get used to how the different cars react in different 
 situations the game is highly addictive with lots of replay value. The only downside to the entire 
 game are loadscreens. The load times aren't all that bad, but there is a load screen after almost 
 every selection. In PGR 2 you could restart a race at any time and instantly be on the starting 
 line. With 3 there will be a load screen. After each race there is a load screen to get back to 
 the menu (I have no idea why this is) . Other than that it's as close to perfect as I've seen for 
 a racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Clearly PGR3 was meant to show off some of the graphical prowess of the 360, and it does so very 
 nicely. The cars look great, the tracks look great. 
  
  The racing is alot of fun and very similar to previous entries in the PGR series. It is by far 
 the best racing game for the 360 thus far. 
  
  The load time is a annoying at times, but overall its not that bad. 
  
  The selection of cars 
 is very nice, and there are a ton of different makes and models to choose from. That being said, 
 it still seems like when you race online everyone chooses the same car (or most) and in many cases 
 it's whatever the best Ferarri is for that class. People have complained about a lack of low-end 
 everyday cars. I don't think that's a valid complaint here. Sure, it's nice to be able to race 
 with cars you see every day on the streets, but without any performance customization, there's 
 no point to it. 
  The game was designed for exotic and high end cars, and the developers met that goal admirably.
 
  
  I would've liked to have seen realistic damage. There is some cosmetic damage in the game (though 
 minor) which is nice, but it has no effect whatsoever on your ability to drive. And while many 
 people would say good, especially in online races where half the drivers only know how to take 
 other drivers out, rather than actually race, I think it still would be a nice option to include 
 (though having the ability to disable it) .
  
  The environments included are nice. They look good, and they are distinctive in their characteristics 
 so that racing in each is a different experience. However, there are not enough. Las Vegas, Tokyo, 
 London, and New York. And of course, Nurburgring, which while a great track to race on, isn't all 
 the interesting visually (mostly just hills and trees) .
  
  Overall, it's a great game. The multiplayer racing experience is alot of fun, the Gotham Heroes 
 TV and Friends Channels add even more to it. The ability to walk around your garage and view your 
 cars is a nice feature instead of only sticking to the traditional menu select of cars.
  
  The game is challenging. Any idiot can beat the game on easy (or even normal) difficulties, the 
 real challenge comes when you start working toward all of the badges and achievments, including 
 Platinum completion, and racing with a manual transmission. Its enough to keep any race enthusist 
 busy for quite a while.
  
  Definitly a must have game for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Cyn-
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Though I never played the other PGR games, here's what I think.
  
  Gameplay-Probably not for everyone but it's satisfying after you get decent at the game. 
  Graphics-Great 
 enviroments, blend in nicely in with the cars, and are well detailed. 
  Sound-Great sound, cars sound good, but a VERY weird selection of music. You'd be better off slapping 
 some of your own music on there unless you want to listen to Beethoven and some rap in one race.
 
  
  Just a quick review. If you're not a big fan of sim racers don't bother unless you feel like putting 
 an hour into getting to learn how the game works, my friends weren't and they couldn't really get 
 into the game because they're impatient and I wipped the floor with them when they played me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainLunchbox
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  Compared to all of the Xbox 360's other racing titles, Project Gotham Racing 3 offers the most 
 realistic driving experience yet. This is thanks to, in a large part, the excellent graphical presentation 
 of the game's first person view. Each car features a fully modeled cockpit interior. Adding to 
 this incredible view is the engine sound of the cars'. All realistic, all unique. Every vehicle 
 in this game is a supercar, and each car handles as such. Again the difference from car to car 
 is always distinguishable, and no two drive, sound or look the same. The soundtrack in the game 
 is customizable down to the genre, which is a little disappointing. In games like these, I think 
 it's better to give the gamer full control over the tracks they feel they would like to listen 
 to. The online play for this game is highly immersive, as it offers a fully featured, online career 
 mode. In the online career mode you earn Kudos and credits just as you would in the solo career 
 mode. I believe this should be done in more online games, instead just limiting online features 
 for multiplayer gaming. All in all, PGR3 is a solid game that is fully featured and will entertain 
 you during the 360's current, slow, title-deficit months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrokmyds
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 22, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  You see a lot of mediocre 360 games with average graphics and gameplay, and it's rather depressing. 
 But there are a choice few gems, like Project Gotham Racing 3.
  
  If you're like me and like racing games, graphical masterpieces, and good online play, then you're 
 already a fan of the series. This game is so simple, but provides a great value if you keep at 
 and are skilled.
  
  There is nothing more satisfying than beating some French a**hole on Live. And along with the ultra-organized 
 Online Career mode is Playtime, where you can just have fun and not worry about losing. The only 
 thing wrong with the online is if people playing with you suck but have a faster car. They simply 
 slam into you at full speed on turns.
  
  Single-player mode is also great. It seems like there is less cities, but it's all good. There 
 are five difficulty settings, and you get different amounts of money depending on your performance 
 and difficulty level set. 
  
  That's about it. I know it seems simple, but this game is well worth the cash. However, there is 
 not yet a reason to buy a 360. If you have the console though, pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maui00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is an expectacular game and awesome grahics. 
  
  GRAPHICS- incredible. Really detailed enviroment and cars. Especially the in-car view. 9/10
  
 
  GAMEPLAY- this is more of simulator game than an arcade game. You really need to use the break 
 a lot. And for me its not repetitive at all. 8/10
  
  SOUND- phenomenal. Each cars has its own engine sound. Really well done sound. And the music is 
 really cool too. 9/10
  
  SINGLEPLAYER- the story mode is cool and long for me. I spent a lot of time in the storymode. 8.5/10
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER- amazing. the only is really organized and well done. You dont have a disadvantage 
 if you have a slow car. Each car have a class and the fastest cars go in class A and B. And slower 
 cars go in class C to E. 9/10
  
  OVERALL- superb game. shows the power of the 360. This is a must for your 360 collection. 9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeywoz17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:26 am PT
Review:  This isnt much of a review but more of a complaint. I am disapointed that in project gotham racing 
 3 doesnt have any BMW cars in it, its not like bmw doesnt have fast cars because they do for example 
 BMW M3, M5 and M6.
  Its a disapointment for me because i loved driving a luxurious car the M3 in project gotham 2. 
 And it would be nice if there was a really good bonus car like a Formula 1 car or something in 
 that catogory also there isnt any well known classic cars or SUVs in this game, in PGR 2 the classic 
 cars were fun to drive and the SUVs were cool to drive aswell, with a SUV it can really test your 
 driving skills because of there size and mass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinsnakes007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 12:26 am PT
Review:  THE CARS! THE CARS! This game easily has the best cars out of any racing game. Every car in this 
 game can go at least 170 MPH. They look EXTREMELY good too. The new inside view revolutionizes 
 the way racing games are played. Seeing your drivers hands move the wheel, looking in the rear 
 and side view mirrors, everything about it is great. Also out of all the 360 games i've played 
 so far, this is the best to have a custom soundtrack in. The campaign is awesome and lets users 
 compete for different medals and credits. Online play is very fun too, and there is even an online 
 campaign! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceReject
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  I have the lot MSR, PGR, PGR2 & Now..... **DRUM ROLL**
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 
  
  Let's get stuck in....
  
  Ok first of all I didn't know what I was expecting from this game. 
 I guess what sprung to mind is Project Gotham Racing 2 but with better graphics and thats exactly 
 what i got. 
  
  Ok theres a lot to talk about in this game but TBH please just go and read a PGR2 review cause.... 
 nothing much has really changed. I guess there is the obvious more fantastic, brilliant, astonishing, 
 wish I could afford one in real life cars and really well designed levels (Thank you for bringing 
 back London!) But it's all been done before. I'm not going to slag it off because it is the purpose 
 of the game - cars, tracks and racing. 
  
  I guess I was expecting something very different. There is in terms of gameplay there are brand 
 new challenges (can't think of any off the top of my head... but they are there!) But nothing that 
 makes me think the game has improved except graphically.
  
  When are game developers going to learn, that having great graphics is only half of the story.... 
 please remember the actual gameplay!!! I was a little dissappointed that the cars don't get AS 
 damaged as they used to in PGR2 (I loved that realistic feeling) but they seem to have downplayed 
 it..... shame. 
  
  But i'm not going to say it was awful, cause it is a real fun game to play alone as well as with 
 a friend/ relative & online. It's just not that different, but then again I can't think of how 
 the developers could have changed the game - it's not that obvious and they have done the basics 
 e. g cars, tacks... but there is something else missing
  
  Bits i love:
  
  - Setting up your own garage, with all your amazing cars
  - cars (love them!!)
  - Building 
 your own tracks
  - The tracks
  - Graphics (yes they are impressive! Just try driving along and looking at your wing mirror... 
 brilliant)
  - Radio, custom tracks
  
  Bits I Hate
  
  - Car doesn't seem to get as damaged anymore... boohoo
  - Too similar to PGR2 
  - the fact 
 that the developers seem to have focussed more on the graphics than actual game play
  
  I love this game it's fun, easy to pick up and play and I will probably always end up buying it 
 s sequels when they are released as this game is a safe option. But This time around I was too 
 busy deciding what i was going to play on the radio/cd than I was actually driving!
  
  The game is there graphically.... but gameplay wise.... PGR2... retro rocks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360addict
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  PGR improves over the previous project gotham racing games by the graphics which are absolutely 
 breathtaking the gameplay which is more accesible to ess hardcore racing fans. There is also alot 
 to do in thisgame. The campaign is lengthy and the multiplayer adds alot of replayability whether 
 its on or offline. There is a wide variety of cars to use in the game even though there is than 
 PGR the cars on offer are brilliant and lets face it what would yu rather play forthe first small 
 part of the game a mini cooper or a ferrari 430. PGR3 is a solid launch title and is worth a buy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRliger04
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Nice shiny cars going 150 mph is every guys dream. PGR3 is a good upgrade from PGR2 for the XBox. 
 I shows the true power of the 360 a. k. a. fancy CPU. I wasn't a big fan of the two previous PGR 
 titles but i was able to get into this one. The car selection alone caught my eyes. I still wish 
 they would give us a real world feel like in NFS. I not to sure if PGR3 would have been enjoyable 
 if it had been on the XBox. The glimmer on the hood of the car from the sun gave this game a boost, 
 one that was needed. I'll give Bizarre 100 Kudos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical at first because of the way that 2 was made and how it revolved around kudos, but 
 after picking this title up I was amazed. The picture quality is outrageous and the cars are done 
 perfectly, so far I haven't found a car that has any messed up sharp sides. The gameplay is pretty 
 fun in my opinion, especially with the powerslides and such. There is alos a new thing called gotham 
 TV which is pretty cool because you can tune in and wawtch others race and get an achievment for 
 it. Online play is great because in here you can compete and try to get featured on Gotham TV which 
 is pretty cool when everyone around the world is watching you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a awesome looking racing game with good car physics and a selection of great 
 cars PGR 3 is what you've been looking for.
  
  PGR 3 is one of the most fun racing games I've played in a while and a great 360 launch title. 
 A requirement for all the cars in PGR 3 is that they all must go 170 mph. So for those of you who 
 hate racing games that start you off in a slow 4 cylinder powered car no worries here. All of the 
 cars are great performers, and they range from 40+ year old classics to current models. What makes 
 a racing game great is awesome car physics, and PGR 3 has that covered. Even thought the physics 
 are great, there isn't a big learning curve. The AI is pretty solid for all the difficulty levels, 
 there isn't any rubber band AI like you will find in the NFS games. They just don't drive as fast 
 as they can or they break early and go through corners slower. They don't drive like morons smashing 
 into things or each other. There are quite a few tracks, but I don't think there is as many as 
 in PGR 2 but there's still enough for you not to get bored with them. The tracks are located in 
 familar citys like New York, London, and Tokyo. Nurburgring is back and way better then the version 
 found in PGR 2. You can also create your own tracks if you feel the need. PGR 3 still retains the 
 Kudos system and it's still fun to do powerslides and rack up big points. Most of the race types 
 you will be familar with, there's the street races, cone challanges, speed challanges, overtake, 
 ect. One of the best features of PGR 3 is the cockpit view, in all the cars the interior has been 
 recreated and it looks awesome. IMO this is the best way to play PGR 3, it's just so awesome.
 
  
  Anyone can tell by looking at the pics that this game looks great. It looks great on standard TVs 
 and a little better on HDTVs. When in cockpit view the sun will shine across the dash and reflect 
 off the windshield. Dust will collect on the windshield a short while after starting a race. The 
 tracks look awesome, the cars look awesome, this game looks really great for a launch title.
  
  The sound is good, all the cars sound great as do the sound effects. The sound track is good 
 I guess, I don't really care for most of the music found in racing games so I use a custom playlist. 
 And what is really awesome is that like in Forza, your playlist plays during menus and races, it 
 never stops and then starts up again like in PGR 2.
  
  Overall this game rocks and it's a awesome launch title. If you own a 360 and have enjoyed the 
 other PGR games then you should love PGR 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: She_Hate_Me
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 8:35 am PT
Review:  This has to be a must buy for the 360. Impressive graphics, stunning cars (80 total cars!) , and 
 quite real. This game is great for the average gamer to anyone that loves racing games. PGR3 offers 
 quite a few different styles of races to choose from and online is amazing if you find the right 
 people. The inside-the-car camera will have you thinking you are actually in it and driving, along 
 with the realistic handling, it's a win-win situation. If you just bought a Xbox 360 and want to 
 see amazing graphics, buy this! Also if you are gamer that just wants a fun game to play, this 
 is where to go, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is a top class racer, brilliant tracks, better cars, what more could you ask for?
  
  The game has some of the best graphics on the 360 so far, mainly due to the lighting effects used 
 by Bizzare. The cars look so real, especially in the garage. There is a good selection of tracks, 
 and you can also create your own via a route creator.
  
  The game should take a good while to complete, especially on Hardcore mode, but because of the 
 acheivements, it has you coming back for more every time.
  
  One thing I must stress is that this is a sim, so if you're a fan of Arcade racers i. e NFS etc. 
 Do not buy this, they are totally different games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikingPhil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably has the best graphics out for the Xbox 360. It has incredible graphics and 
 goes into major detail when it comes to the cars. If you look close enough you can actually see 
 the heads of the screws on the bodywork of the car. The audio in this game is also very good. Every 
 car has a different sound. The gameplay is kind of repetive though. Also you can probably beat 
 the game with the first car you choose. There isnt much customization in the game either, as a 
 matter of fact there is no customization in the game at all. One thing is that every race you can 
 change the difficulty level. The higher the difficulty the more credits you get towards buying 
 a new car. It takes about 5 minutes to learn how to play though. The game is to short also. But 
 if you are into racing you would probably be interested in the game. There is also an array of 
 cars to choose from and buy. But you wont see these cars rolling through the drive through in 
 McDonalds. The cars in this game are high end. So if you are a racing fan and would like to see 
 the Xbox 360s potential of graphics then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tranz07
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  the PERFECT racer...
  
  Amazing single player campaign...
  Amazing online campaign...
  the best graphics of any 360 game...
  the most fun you have just racing.. PURE racing!!!
  
 
  its not a sim, but its all about skill and driving with an edge..
  its up to you to be stylish and take a those risks....
  plus its great that you can play the 
 whole game with the same car.... 
  
  the garages look like real life...
  all the cars are beatiful and sound amazing... THEY ALL DRIVE DIFF... which at first is frustrating, 
 but what car drives the same? they are all unique... 
  
  The classes are all balanced... any car in the same class can beat each other...
  
  the in 
 car view sells this game... 
  
  YOU NEED AN HDTV... when you play this on a standard set it looks great.. but it almost looks like 
 a different game... 
  
  when its on a HD WOW you see every little detail and its jaw dropping...
  
  the gameplay continues 
 to be the best part tho... its about the skill and having fun while you race! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustopants
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say one thing... if you've never played a PGR game before, you're gonna 
 have some learning to do... and if you sucked in PGR2, i'd say just go out and get NFS: Most Wanted 
 or Full Auto or something... 
  this game is HARD...
  I kept crashing into the walls and sliding all over the place, eventually I got a little better 
 at it, but it was still really hard... maybe it's just me, but I had a really hard time with this 
 game, and I don't have nearly as much trouble with other racing games...
  
  Now, don't get me wrong, the gameplay is fun, once you get the hang of it, and while It doesn't 
 do that many things new... the things it does are pretty cool. They now have an online career mode 
 where you can race against other people online for different trophies and badges... and maybe even 
 a spot on Gotham TV...
  Now, speaking of that, Gotham TV is another new feature which enables you and thousands of other 
 people to watch all the really good players do what they're good at doing... you know, racing... 
 (seriously, I dunno how they get that good)
  They also have a new "track creator" of sorts... you can take any of the pre-existing tracks and 
 set up any route you want through them...
  
  As for the rest of the gameplay, it's what you've come to expect from the PGR series, a carreer 
 mode, time attack against ghosts, online multiplayer, you get the idea...
  
  as for the graphics... well, I don't really want to get into graphics too much, because I'll feel 
 jaded if I talk about how good or bad they are while I still have a standard resolution TV... but 
 the graphics are just alright... at least for a next gen system... let's just say they aren't Tony 
 Hawk's or Gun's level of bad graphics... the textures are nice and crisp, and everything is rendered 
 nicely... although... I see lots of Jaggies, probably just cause of my "old-school" TV...
  
  Overall, if you can put enough time into it to get really good at it, then i'd say buy this... 
 if not, don't even waste your time with it... go with another one of the easier racing games out 
 there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brutux1x
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 has many good qualities of a racing game, even to those who don't like 
 racing too much like me. I bought this for the 360 looking for a good game to pass the time with. 
 I liked how the game started, fun races, get to choose what kind of car you want with plenty of 
 cars to buy, and some fun mini games as well. It also has just plain get graphics, but it ends 
 around there. With the only goal of playing non-online gameplay is to try to become number 1, there 
 really is no fun in that I think, also with the fact after you get a certain car you pretty much 
 have the best car in the game, than there is no point in winning races for money. The controls 
 are also very smooth with using the triggers. The sound though can get a little repitive and annoying 
 so I just usually play some music on my computer or something while I'm playing. The online play 
 is pretty good, but than again can get repitive, so this is a great game, but deffiantly unless 
 you are a racing fan, just a renter not a real keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_anvil
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty funking amazing, although single player and the general racing isnt as exciting 
 as some other racing games the graphics are good and the cars handle alot more like they should 
 than NFS etc. i found it quite annoying having to go though so many single player levels which 
 where each was pretty much the same as the last.
  However . . get online and this game becomes insane! So much fun playing the playtime mode with 
 ya mates and randomers. I played the online career for a while and got upto leage 5 or something 
 but it got too annoying working ya way to the front just for sum idiot to spin you on purpose. 
 . . so now i just stick with Playtime which is cool!
  WORD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is the third installment in the popular driving game series by Bizarre Creations. In my opinion, 
 this game is the only next-gen game on the Xbox 360 right now, from a graphics standpoint.
  PGR3's graphics are mind blowing. I played it on a standard-definition TV. I can't even imagine 
 what it would look like in HD! You can really feel a great sense of speed and graphics when you're 
 zooming through cities like New York, London, Tokyo, and a couple more.
  The gameplay in PGR3 is where it may turn a few people off. It's very realistic, and can be frustrating 
 if you don't take the time to master it.
  The menus are nice, but can be a tad confusing, since they all look the same. The selection of 
 cars is unbelievable, and so are the garages you can display them in.
  
  Overall, if you're into realistic driving games with jaw-dropping graphics and cars, go buy PGR3 
 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gakselso
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  Actually, I just liked the sound of my intro. A friend of mine rented it for a week so he could 
 borrow my 360 for the weekend and I got it for the other 4 days (we live 100km apart and work in 
 the middle, so weekend gaming is kinda out of the question) , so be warned... my comments are based 
 on 4 days of play and no Live connection.
  
  But given that, you should know that just I wasn't interested in playing the game for longer. It's 
 pretty fun at first, but I sorta lost interest and was glad to get back to my Xbox and Burnout 
 3!!! Go figure. No need to discuss graphics, etc, we all know they are gorgeous. I'm not nearly 
 as picky as some people, I guess, I thought they were phenomenal and I don't even have HD! But 
 after I got over that I just wasn't too thrilled with the game. The racing action is OK, but there's 
 no damage modeling and I found I wasn't really interested in plowing through hundreds of the same 
 race. 
  
  The cars weren't compelling to me, really. I had a fairly nice one from the start and I raced better 
 with it than the top end car I got later. 
  
  In the end, I just kept wanting to go back to my less-attractive-but-more-fun Burnout and wreck 
 stuff. Maybe that's just the kind of racer I am.
  
  (Note. Where-o-where are the cops?! Whatever happened to the old days of NFS and maybe TestDrive 
 (3 maybe?) where there were cops chasing you and you could even be one? sigh. The NFS demo has 
 cops, but I wasn't thrilled about it, either. We need Burnout -- with cops!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HighStakes-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of PGR2, simply because of the sheer simplicity and the online mode. PGR-games 
 are not Gran Turismo or Forza; but dont be fooled, PGR games are just plain fun to play. Over the 
 years, PGR series haven taken a big step with each game... and mechanically, PGR3 is no different.
 
  
  Game play wise, its just fun. The game is very easy to pick up and play, and the learning cruve 
 is just right. When you first start the solo mode, you are given a certian amount of money, and 
 from there you can buy just about any cars to your limit (rather than "making your way up" to the 
 super cars in PGR2) . Depending on what car you use, the race is adjusted to that car's power and 
 class. So for example, you wont see bunch of Corvette C5R's going against Enzo's; if you use a 
 C5R, you will see more of NSX, Vipers and Ford GT's instead. Its very easy to unlock the next set 
 of races, and you will go through these races very fast! One thing about the Kudos this time around, 
 now its being used more as a reputation gain.... so for example, if you reach 40k or 100k Kudos, 
 you are allowed to buy a certain car that you could'nt do so before; where as in PGR2, you earn 
 kudos to gain levels, and you can buy special cars as you gain those levels.
  
  Graphically, PGR3 is beautiful! I dont have a HDTV, but even at that, this game looks superb! Cars 
 are very detailed, and for the first time ever, you might want to check out "First person" view... looks 
 fantastic! As you speed up, you can notice your surroundings becoming this "blurry" effect; you 
 just have to see it to believe it! The sound is probably the best so far, if your oppononet has 
 a turbo-powered car, you can hear it as if it was real life. There is a nice variety of music, 
 and a very good selection too.
  
  So far, I have been very impressed with PGR3. PLENTY of cars, and these are good cars, you wont 
 see any Ford Focus's in here... all the cars in this game has a top speed of over 170 mph (just 
 like the ad says) . I loved PGR2, and its safe to say that opinion stays true for PGR3. If you love 
 arcade-style racing, and/or loved the PGR series, this is a must buy for any Xbox 360 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATrueRounder
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 23, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  Gameplay: 
  -Nearly flawless racing simulation, with a good driving feel to every car in the game.
  -Excellent 
 computer AI, especially at higher difficulty levels, keeps the game challenging.
  -Unique Kudos system measures just how stylish your driving truly is.
  Graphics: 
  -Truly 
 next generation graphics provide a near phenomenal representation of a realistic race. Reflections 
 can be seen on nearly every surface, and even the backgrounds and scenery are exciting to look 
 at.
  Sound :
  -Excellent sounds effects, from engine roaring to cars hitting walls at 225 mph. 
  Value: As 
 with most quality racing games, the replay value is extremely high, due to an abundance of things 
 to do:
  -23 offline championships, with anywhere from 1-8 individual race events each, each one different 
 than the rest.
  -Split screen allows for 4 players to play offline. A fantastic game to be played with friends.
 
  -Online multiplayer is definitely a hit, with different types of races each to be played with 
 different class cars as well.
  -Five levels of difficulty, from absolute beginner to, quite literally, a driving master (the Hardcore 
 level) which basically forces one to drive absolutely perfectly, and never make a mistake.
  
  The Bad
  
  Gameplay: 
  -No real plotline or anything of that sort to keep a story going. 
 You are just a racer trying to race as much as possible, and rack up the credits.
  -Game is strictly professional racing, and lacks certain surprise elements seen in other racing 
 games such as driving loose in a city, being chased by cops, driving in traffic, etc.
  -Because this game uses cars from todays real world, they cannot be upgraded, modified, or customized 
 beyond color changes, diminishing slightly the variety in the game.
  Graphics: 
  -Also because game uses cars from todays real world, the cars cannot appear heavily damaged in 
 game (the most damage you will see your car taking, even after hitting a wall doing over 200mph 
 is a busted spoiler or mirror) . 
  Sound: n/a
  Value:
  -In my opinion, it would have been nice to race online along side more than just 5 other cars. 
 The more opponents, the better.
  
  Tilt
  
  My tilt rating on this game was 8 due to small bits of frustration amidst game playing, and due 
 to the fact that the cars cannot be customized or damaged while driving.
  
  Overall
  
  An absolutely fantastic racing game: a must own.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadmaninc024
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  ok i just wanna say.. it ain't better than PGR2 cuz PGR2 has more cars... it has different cars and 
 the damage thing.
  now PGR3 is a great simulator but it sort of a high speed simulator... which not everyone appreciates.. but 
 it's pretty good. it has a nice touch of realism.. because of the fact that after you spend a while 
 playing with a Ferrari... you have to learn how to drive another car all over again.. each car drives 
 different... the graphics are solid.. really smooth but a little too shiny when you play on HD and 
 im sure that with TV is the same... the sound is sort of weird... because it has a nice soundtrack... but 
 the engines sound like a little baby's cough.. PGR3 is an amazing racing simulator... but it still 
 has its flaws.. like the extremely short and easy career mode... and the uselessness of the kudos... the 
 route creator is OK although i don't see a need for it but it's ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Half of me says you got cheated and the other half says WOW.
  
  There are a lot of Pros and Cons for this new PGR title and I'll explain a little but not to much 
 because I Love this game, BUT I'm greedy and I need more.
  
  I went into this game thinking, more cars, more tracks, better graphics, new features, new style. 
 Well I got some of what I was expecting but not ENOUGH. As far as the cars part goes I can Kinda 
 understand what Microsoft was tyring to achieve with starting everyone of with Super Cars instead 
 of Mini Coopers. As far as Variety in the car department goes there's really not much. There all 
 Super Cars, though they may drive differently its still the same, if you are following me.
  
  Race Tracks oh the detail, its so Lovely and every track is beautifully detailed to the MAX! 
 I mean I was so far head this one time in a race in Las Vegas I stopped @ the Local McDonald's 
 Located near the finish line and still won.
  This also includes the graphical point of my review, man the environment is so beautiful. Definitely 
 the best I've ever seen.
  
  The Features really didn't add much to the single player portion, but it was pretty neat to watch 
 Gotham Tv and watch the top racers in the world and also my friends get their whoop on. I never 
 thought a can of worms would smell that bad.
  
  Anyways, as far as Style goes I really didn't see any Improvement over PGR2.
  
  So with all 
 that said, I REALLY can't wait til FORZA 2. I enjoyed a lot more that over PGR2, but thats my opinion.
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review on PGR3, so Please check out my other 360 game reviews.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo786
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Ok when i went to pick up my 360 i wasnt sure on which game i shud get and decided to get pgr3 
 as my freinds play it on live all the time.
  Being a gran turismo fan i thought i knew all about the feel of a racing game after playing gt4 
 but i never knew how wrong i was. I picked up the controller and went throught a vaiety of cars 
 choosing the mclaren f1 an off i was. The realism blue me away and later i also realised that no 
 racing game comes close. This is the racing game that woll never leave u dissapointed. I found 
 my self grappling with the controller as i crashed bashing my head as i got over taken this is 
 the best driving game ever created. 
  This is a must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 21, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  OK, I have been a huge fan of the Gotham series of games ever since the first one appeared all 
 those years back.
  
  I have lost count of the number of hours I have poured into these games, they are just so good 
 and PGR3 is no different.
  
  The first thing that hits you when you start to play is how nice it looks. Everything looks very 
 realistic and oruns at a decent frame rate. The cars are beautifully modelled and look superb. 
 If you can handle it, try using the inside car view when you are racing, it is stunning.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much like the previous two versions, drive fast and win and get plenty of 
 stylish moves in as you fly round those corners...
  
  Online, it is hard to beat. The races have no lag and are great fun, once you get past the first 
 turn lol.
  
  I would definitely recommend this game, it is a fantastic effort and a worthy launch title for 
 the 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrikerD101
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I've never played a PGR game before, so buying the third installment of the series as my first 
 xbox 360 game was a bit of a leap of faith. When I first started I was riding the wall the whole 
 time, or flying around in photo mode checking out the graphics. After a while though I started 
 to find some skill.
  The campaign isn't really very fun, at all. But it's a good way to get credits to buy cars to use 
 in the online career, which is loads of fun!
  Now that I've mentioned online career, a few people are asking WTF!? Online career is basically 
 ranked matchmaking. The playlists are different types of races, or you can choose "Random Race" 
 and you just choose the car you want to use and the game will stick you in a playlist automatically.
 
  There's also "playtime" which is old-school listed games (unranked) . You just join in with the 
 random guys who are already playing and have a good time.
  Before I go into detail about anything, I need to inform you about how the cars are organized. 
 There's an A, B, C, D, & E class. Obviously A is the fastest & E isn't the fastest. I would've 
 said slowest, but none of these cars are very slow. When you go online, each playlist has a different 
 class of cars you have to choose from, and that depends on the types of tracks you'd be racing 
 in that playlist.
  GOTHAM TV!!! no batman jokes! Gotham TV is awesome, you really have to see it to believe it. When 
 going online it's basically watching a replay of the coolest race that's just been on, or you can 
 drop into the middle of the event and watch it in real-time. I prefer to watch it from the beginning 
 in case I missed anything but the choice is yours.
  Photo mode is really special. If you're ever in a sweet wreck and somebody's car got airborne then 
 you can just press "X" after the race to save the replay, watch the replay until the wreck, and 
 then take a hi-res screenshot of the car in the air, and it will be saved for all eternity in the 
 Gotham TV menu.
  Those are just some of the features of this game, the detail is even more amazing, although the 
 damage modelling is a little lacking. The lighting, model-acuracy and just overall coolness of 
 the graphics is amazing! It looks like real life, until you stop and scrutinize at the little details, 
 but it's better to keep going 170 the whole race then stop for a few minutes.
  Great game, go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief0292
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  The sequel to the most popular xbox racing game of all time. This game is the pinacle of graphic 
 and control excelanc. The rush you get when u fly completely sideways around a mind bending turn 
 it is amazing. The graphics are bassically photo realistic. The sound is amazing the noises change 
 from different camera angles. The radio stations ae great there is something for everyone. The 
 cars are detailed amazingly all are have slight damage modling and mapped perfectly. The photmode 
 is bassically pointless but nice to have. The reall fun of this game is collecting all of ur favorite 
 cars. the cities are all real and all have the real places like in real life. For example; if u 
 go to las vegas you will see the mgm grand and all of the casinos that really exist. This is a 
 must own game for anyone who has an xbox 360 do urself a favor and pick this one up today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  i have owned plenty of racing games in my time and i have never enjoyed one as much as this it 
 has everything to please you
  1. some of the fastest and unique cars you will never see in your life
  2. the relistic in car 
 view (the dials actually go up and down)
  3. the damages is good.
  3. microsoft have actually recorded the real sound of each car in real life when in driving how 
 cool is thaT?
  4. there is plently to do on carrer which is very fun
  5. OMG you should play this game online my god it is amazing so simple to use and there is no lag 
 what so ever 
  GET THIS GAME OTHERWISE YOU WILL REGRET IT
  PERFECT FOR ANYONE WHO LIKES A BIT OF CARS AND RACING 
  I NEVER WANT TO SEE IT GO
  PROJECT 
 GOTHAM 3 RULES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  If you're a racing fan looking for a real example of what the next generation of speed is, look 
 no further than PGR3. Everything you could want from a racer is right here; the fastest rides in 
 the world from Ford, Dodge, Aston Martin, Lotus, Lamborghini, Ferrari, and more are waiting for 
 you to take them out on the town through cities like New York and Tokyo to the legendary Nurburgring 
 in Germany. The focus on stylish driving means you'll be driving sideways, catching air, and pulling 
 360s and get rewarded for every one. The graphics are among the best yet on the 360, showcasing 
 the best in dynamic lighting, shadowing, and car models. One of the best new features, hands down 
 is the cockpit view. Unlike the first-person view in other racers which simply takes away your 
 car model and puts you an inch from the road, PGR3 drops you right in the driver's seat. Using 
 the right stick, you can look out your windows, check out the interior, even check your mirrors 
 the same way you do in real life. There's nothing quite like it, and it only serves to deepen the 
 immersion in the already fun racing. The gauges even move in real-time, allowing you to see your 
 speedometer and tachometer move up and down through every turn. You can keep cars in garages and 
 stroll around and check out your beautifully rendered toys, and even use replays to take pictures 
 of your favorites. There's a lot to do in single-player, although it goes by pretty fast. If PGR4 
 can be any better, they could give the Career mode a little more meat and make the car damage mean 
 something. PGR3 really does deserve the highest praise for being not only the first 360 racer to 
 give us something new and exciting, but be the best damn racing game I played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboi25
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is right on the money. Best racing game I have ever seen, no joke. It has all of the 
 elements you would ever want in a racing game. It has a little bit of a arcade feel to it because 
 of the Kudos, so it feels a little bit like burnout. It is also like Forza Motorsport because you 
 need to take a line on your turns. The online is great as well. The gotham tv feature is good in 
 theory, but you will want to race yourself so much that watching it is somewhat pointless. I also 
 wish there were a few more cars but from the cars they have, the couldnt have picked much better 
 ones. You have your lamborginis, mclarens, and porsches to name just a few. It is incredible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rancid125
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most amazing games out for the X360. It takes some skill, which doesn't 
 come in most games... and it takes TIME, yes, time. The graphics and gameplay are outstanding, 
 once you get up the ranks it gets frusturating though.... your opponents like to spin you out on 
 harder difficulties, so watch out. Online, is pretty good also, there are a lot of people who like 
 to play dirty and make you fish tail, but if you have good control over your car... it shouldn't 
 be a problem..
  
  The game is pretty easy to learn, and fun to play at all ages. I give it a 9 out of 10. Just beacuse 
 they could use some different stuff.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elveon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Well im a big fan of the series and im a big fan of PGR3 its an exiting game and im glad to own 
 this game. 
  Have you ever been in a car going 120 MPH , the majority of us havent , but PGR3 mimics that feeling 
 amazingly well , when switched to thedash viewthe entire game is put into another level of 
 realism , when your speeding down the track at night you can see the reflection of the cars headlights 
 behind you , the reflection of the building or trees all afect your windshield , all aspects of 
 the enviroment contribute to the lighting affects. In terms of the Physics , the cars move real 
 and all have their own special flaws , but this is nothing new. The career mode can get repetative 
 but all of the awards you gain from your progress gives a sence of acomplishment , along with all 
 of the secret cars to unlock . True that their are only 80 cars in the entire game they are the 
 best 80 cars in the world , everything from Ferraris to Aston Martins , all of your dream cars 
 right their in front of you. The game also includes a few extras such as being able to walk around 
 in your gararges , allowing you to view all of your cars upclose and with amazing detail , its 
 just beautiful , along with the cars the garages are a work of art themselves , their are anough 
 garages for you to buy and store all 80 of the cars that the game offers you .The games multiplayer 
 options are prety straight forward , their are plenty of game modes such as Street Race , Capture 
 the Track , Eliminator etc. The game dose have its Flaws though , The weather displayed through 
 out the game is prety boring , its either day , night or cloudy , i would of loved to see some 
 rain with some thunder to create some beatiful lighting. Their is no customization of your cars 
 , one of the latest racing games Project Gotham Racing allows you to buy parts , paint jobs , decals 
 ETC , i would of liked to see some of thoses aspects in PGR3. In the end it still comes of as a 
 great game , all of the subtle details like all of the interiors and even having the on onlookers 
 behind the racing walls react to you when you slam into the wall , that is what realy makes PGR3 
 a great game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMatrix615
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: One word, intense. You may not blink at all during the races. Gets the feeling of speed 
 down just right, so when you're going down a straight at 150 mph, it actually feels like you're 
 going down a straight at 150 mph. Add to this phenomenal online gameplay which allows you to race 
 in an online career mode or just for fun, and you have an incredibly great-playing game. I gave 
 it a 9 because there isn't much variety in the gameplay, although the cone challenges are fun and 
 the geometry wars is a great distraction.
  Graphics: This is by far the best-looking console game on the market period. Cars look fantastic, 
 and the in-car view is a sight to behold. Add to that incredibly blur effects at high speeds and 
 you have one incredible visual experience.
  Sound: Perhaps the best quality of the game, the great sound effects keep you totally immersed 
 in the intense action, and the stellar soundtrack has a little something for everyone, whether 
 it's queens of the stone age or some classical music (seriously)
  Value: I gave it a nine because the reply value isn't great. The career mode gets repetitive towards 
 the end. The online play does serve to add significant replay value however, so if you have a gold 
 xbox live account, consider this a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeyhotel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  I really like this game. It is one of the best racing games I have played for either the 360 or 
 the old box. I liked forza for all the cars, but since I know nothing about what makes them go 
 i never got comfortable racing them. I definitely go for the arcade style games better. The online 
 play is great. I also like the career mode alot. Some of the achievements are crazy hard to get. 
 
  
  My only complaints of the game is that I wish there was a way to compete for Kudos online. It is 
 such a big part in the offline play, and almost unheard of online. Also I think the developers 
 could have done a better job of showing damage on your car. Other than some paint coming off its 
 pretty lame.
  
  But overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 15, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Half of me says you got cheated and the other half says WOW.
  
  There are a lot of Pros and Cons for this new PGR title and I'll explain a little but not to much 
 because I Love this game, BUT I'm greedy and I need more.
  
  I went into this game thinking, more cars, more tracks, better graphics, new features, new style. 
 Well I got some of what I was expecting but not ENOUGH. As far as the cars part goes I can Kinda 
 understand what Microsoft was tyring to achieve with starting everyone of with Super Cars instead 
 of Mini Coopers. As far as Variety in the car department goes there's really not much. There all 
 Super Cars, though they may drive differently its still the same, if you are following me.
  
  Race Tracks oh the detail, its so Lovely and every track is beautifully detailed to the MAX! 
 I mean I was so far head this one time in a race in Las Vegas I stopped @ the Local McDonald's 
 Located near the finish line and still won.
  This also includes the graphical point of my review, man the environment is so beautiful. Definitely 
 the best I've ever seen.
  
  The Features really didn't add much to the single player portion, but it was pretty neat to watch 
 Gotham Tv and watch the top racers in the world and also my friends get their whoop on. I never 
 thought a can of worms would smell that bad.
  
  Anyways, as far as Style goes I really didn't see any Improvement over PGR2.
  
  So with all 
 that said, I REALLY can't wait til FORZA 2. I enjoyed a lot more that over PGR2, but thats my opinion.
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review on PGR3, so Please check out my other 360 game reviews.
  
  I Love you All
  -Crim
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgiy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  The Project Gotham Racing series by Microsoft Game Studios has always been one of my favourite 
 games for the console. You get your fresh fast list of amazing cars, a goot pick of awesome tracks, 
 and music that no other game can touch. This game is a triple threat. 
  
  PGR3 will feature 80+ licensed cars from 30+ manufacturers such as Ferrari, Dodge and Lamborghini. 
 Every car in the game has been chosen based on its ability to reach 170 mph, the origin of the 
 game's slogan "Life begins at 170".
  
  In PGR2 the car models were comprised of 10,000 polygons, but with the next generation hardware's 
 power Bizarre's modellers have been able to put as many as 105,000 polygons worth of detail into 
 the cars, with 40,000 of those being spent on the exterior and the remaining 40,000 on the interior. 
 The increased polygon count allows for smoother, less jagged-shaped cars than in earlier games. 
 Of the 80+ cars in the game, 70+ will be unlocked and available for play at the start of a new 
 game, with around 10 (concept) cars left for the player to unlock themselves.
  
  Unlike PGR2, where new cars were bought using Kudos Tokens (gained by reaching accumulated Kudos 
 milestones known as Kudos Ranks) , new cars will be bought with virtual cash in PGR3 (most likely 
 gained by the same method as obtaining Kudos Tokens) , and the cars will retail for their rough 
 real-world showroom value.
  
  PGR3 has a revolutionary new feature known as GothamTV. With this, gamers connected to the Xbox 
 Live service are able to watch any player in the world on live news feeds, get live ticker-tape 
 information when friends break records, and compete with anyone, anywhere, anytime. Up to 30,000 
 Xbox Live spectators are able to watch a single race.
  
  So in conclusion, for my favourite racing game for all the XBOX systems, if your a big racing game 
 fan, this is a definite recommend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: auralxtc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  First off i must say that i never played the first 2 PGR games much. I dabbled with them from time 
 to time, but never delved into them completely. There was always something missing for me. Something 
 i couldnt quite put my finger on....
  
  Then Xbox 360 launched. The story changed. 
  
  What the first 2 instalments were missing was the utter realism that the 3rd brings to the table. 
 The cars look absolutely incredible. The cities you race in are BEAUTIFUL. You can pick out all 
 the different casinos when driving in Las Vegas... and driving across the Brooklyn Bridge at 200MPH 
 is totally exhilarating. Long story short is that the graphics will blow you away. I've been playing 
 sitting 6 feet away from my 62" DLP HDTV and havent been able to find any graphical flaws. 
  
  The sound in the game is just about as good as the graphics. All the engines of the different 
 cars have different tones and sounds. The Music that is provided with the game is vast to say the 
 least. You have a "CD Changer" that you can pop different music genres in and it will cycle around 
 while you are driving. One cool feature is if you dislike the track that is playing, all you have 
 to do is press right on the D-Pad and it will skip to the next track. very handy indeed!
  
  The gameplay is what you would expect from the PGR series. The physics are real enough that it 
 is challenging, but not so real that it makes the game a drag to play. This being said, there is 
 a bit of a learning curve if you are coming off any other racing game. This game is also as difficult 
 as you want to make it. Each race has 5 levels of difficulty (Steel, Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum) , 
 so you can customize your experience to fit your ability. 
  
  All in all, this game is a MUST have to any race game fan with a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supermodified
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Overall, this does qualify as a superb game. It is worth noting that the following review was done 
 using a regular definition TV with a standard audio system.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is highly addictive, but there is one issue which PGR2 fans will understand 
 after playing PRG3. PGR2 had a wider selection of cars and interesting tracks. I went back and 
 played the complete PGR2 AFTER playing PGR3, and the criticism is valid. If there is one overall 
 weak point in the game, this is it. But the selection of tracks and cars overall is good is PGR3. 
 And the gameplay in general is solid, fun, and yes, highly addictive. And if you want those Platinum 
 trophies, you're going to really have to work for them.
  
  Graphics: Incredible, even on standard definition terms. A huge leap between PRG2 and PGR3. The 
 cars are beautiful, the backdrops and tracks are beautiful, and the interface/menu system is nicely 
 done. When walking in the garage, there is a slight blur effect if you move quickly around a car. 
 But this is a minor part of the game, and is just there for eye candy anyway.
  
  Sound: Superb. Cars sound fantastic, custom soundtracks are great, and general track noise is very 
 realistic.
  
  Value: Much of the increased value for this game lies with the online play, and the new competition 
 aspects. The replay value is also quite great, even for the solo player. Again, one of the few 
 weaknesses in the title is a smaller and maybe less interesting environment than in PGR2. An expansion 
 (if possible) would be worth it. But the custom track builder does compensate somewhat for this.
 
  
  Tilt: Why am I giving this a 10? Because if you are looking for launch games for the 360, PGR3 
 has to be in the conversation, along with PDZ and Call of Duty 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenjaminhoppe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I did not play the first two games. I got this one just for the graphics 
 and just could not put it down. The single player is a little on the short side, but I played through 
 most of the game on normal difficulty, so now I am having fun going back and playing it on hard. 
 That is one of the great things about this game, the difficulty. Before each event you pick one 
 of five difficulty settings. That way, the game is only ever as hard as you want it to be. You 
 will get a better metal and more money on the higher difficulty settings, but if you are not that 
 good at the game you can play on the lower ones. The cars look great and all handle differently. 
 It is great that you can pick one great car and stick with it if you want, or work your way up 
 from ok car to good car to great car. Or you can buy a selection of cars and change cars depending 
 on the event. It's even fun to just collect cars. I haven't even talked about on-line play yet. 
 On-line is fun, but I couldn't tell you too much about it at this point, most of my time has been 
 spent offline. I've spent a little time in Gotham TV and it is cool, but I'm not about to sit around 
 all day and watch other people race. I don't think this game is for everyone due to the mix of 
 arcade and sim racing, but it is great for me. I don't tend to spend a lot of time playing racing 
 games, but this one has me hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hypn0sis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3, or PGR3, is you guessed it (!) , the third installment in the popular racing 
 series for the xbox consoles. This time around its on the next generation console xbox 360. 
  
  The game provides you with no less than 80 supercars. "just 80? Pfft GT4 has over 750". Unlike 
 sim games like Grand Turismo 4 which gives you 50 different models of the Nissan Skyline and hundreds 
 of crap cars like Toyota Yaris, PGR3 only has 80, but if you made a poll were people should name 
 their 80 favorite cars chances are that PGR3 has 75 of them or so. 
  
  And lets face it, nobody wants to drive around in a Toyota Yaris, we want Ferrari's, Lamburghini's 
 and Porsche's, and we get it :)
  
  Overview: 
  
  The is split in two careers. There is a solo career, which is your basic race game with a couple 
 interesting modes (time vs kudos, drift challenges etc and normal races ofcourse) . You win money 
 by winning tournaments and you earn kudos by driving with style. For example doing donuts or huge 
 drifts gives you X points of kudos depending on how well you perform the "tricks". The money is 
 used to buy new cars and the kudos unlock concept cars. The goal of this career is to get number 
 1 on the Gotham Ranking. 
  
  The second career, is the online career, which i find much more interesting. You compete with other 
 players from around the world in a series of tournaments and races in order to become the best 
 PGR3 player (this however is easier said than done, im currently ranked 11,000th or something after 
 playing about 10 hours online. ) . You can only use the cars you have bought in solo career so its 
 adviced to play tru that one first, otherwise you will get blown away by the supercars. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay itself is like any other racer, but i feel that the game offers the perfect 
 mix of arcade racing and simulation. Some of the cars are extremely hard to master, but when you 
 do your usually going to be the fastest guy around the track, others are easy. The kudos bring 
 a interestnig and fun aspect to the game, drifting around every corner , albeit slow is great fun. 
 
  
  Graphics: This is without any doubt the best looking driving game avaliable. It looks nothing less 
 than stunning, aspecially if you own a HDTV. The in car view gives a truly unique gaming experience, 
 aspecially on a big high def tv. (i Played the game on a 50inch plasma and it felt like i was actually 
 inside the car driving) . The motion blur is fantastic, the reflection is great (and in real time) 
 the tire smoke even looks nice. In fact the game looks so good (aspecially in garage mode) that 
 i have spendt hours just walking around my garages looking at my rides =) Unfortunately i tend 
 to look at my car while i race aswell, this often resulting in me hitting the wall.
  
  The dev's allso spend alot of time taking pictures of real life places, like tokyo, nurburgring, 
 new york, las vegas and london. The environment is real, everywere you race is an actual place 
 in the real world, and the environment is maybe the most stunning aspect of the game. I belive 
 no game can compete with pgr3 on this aspect. I recently was in vegas with some friends and when 
 i came back and played pgr3 i was suprised how real it was, every hotel was there, even the local 
 McDonalds. All in high def!
  
  The only real complaint i have is that the trees look ugly. Im sorry but the tree's dont belong 
 on a next gen system at all.
  
  Sound: PGR3 comes with a huge differensiated soundtrack , and if that isnt enough you can listen 
 to the songs you got on your console HDD or stream it directly from the pc. The engine sounds are 
 the best ive heard in a racing game , they are all recorded from the actual car and sounds pretty 
 much like the real deal. 
  
  Value: You can play this game forever with the online career without getting bored, and this is 
 a must have for any racing fan.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJAssassin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played the other PGR games, you will most likely be impressed with PGR 3. The graphics 
 are great, and you won't fully notice them until you actually play them game, especially in HD. 
 The game takes about a half hour to get used to and you will have to get fairly good if you want 
 to complete the game on medium. The ability to make your own tracks and practice on them is great. 
 The soundtrack offers a wide variety of nice music. Collecting the great looking cars and moving 
 them around many different garages is addicting to keep you racing for more money, to buy more 
 cars. On line play is great, and gotham tv allows you to watch others race and save the replay. 
 The new "first person driving" view is a new and cool looking experience. There are 20 achievements 
 to unlock in this game, equaling to 900 points in all. If you want to get them all, you will be 
 playing this game for a very long time.
  
  For people who have a 360 and are looking for a change in there normally played games, or for people 
 who haven't played the PGR series before, this is a buy. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 6, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  I played the first PGR, and the demo of the second one. They were both good games, but PGR 3 takes 
 the power of the xbox 360 by storm. The lighting, shadowing, and driver's seat view looks amazing. 
 The best thing about PGR 3 is that you can buy from a great selection of cars: Ferrari, Lamborghini, 
 Ford, Aston Martin, etc, and walk around your garages to look at your babies (cars. lol) Some of 
 the modes are hard, and you might wanna keep off the gold or platinum medals, but if you think 
 you're THAT good, then knock yourself out. Gotham TV is cool, and the online play is great. The 
 Heroes Channel is good too because you can see players from all over the world playing. This game 
 is very enjoyable, and you will love the visuals in the game. Everything in the game is real time, 
 like the audience, lighting, the cities, and the dents in your cars. If you have an xbox 360, but 
 not have this game, download the demo off the xbox live marketplace for free. BUT, if you have 
 xbox live gold. The music is good too: Genres include Bhangra, J-pop (japanese pop) Hip-hop, Alternative 
 rock, Electronica, and Dark Electronica. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 Review
  
  As you probably know PGR3 is the successor to PGR2 this caused the game to have a lot of hype and 
 the third installment has more than lived up to its end of the deal. It got released on launch date 
 which shows vast inprovement from the Xbox originalsand was one of the first 360 games to appear 
 on the xbox 360 scene. Its a relalistic driving game simulator with a somewhat arcade like feel 
 all the same. It features around eighty of fully liscensed cars from numerous makes each perfectly 
 moddled in the game thanks to the next gen capabilites of the 360 which makes them look more than 
 life like which is very impressive whilst crusing over Brooklyn Bridge at high speeds surrounded 
 in gorgeous scenery. It has a great Offline compatability with great replayability but the main 
 aspect of the game that will keep you comming back time after time is without a doubt the Xbox 
 Live component which is jaw dropping at times and extremely fun.
  
  Online has virtualy no problems exept the odd bit of lag of someone else if they are on a bad connection 
 , also on most games people only tend to stick to one or two cars, but this has never spoiled it 
 for me. The gameplay however can get a bit spoiled by people raming your car into the side of a 
 road or building and yelling in the microphone but theres nothing that can stop you getting your 
 own back if you do manage to cach up to whoever has just done it to you (I should know) .
  
  The game offline boasts a lengthly tournement where each one has a series of races which you can 
 select your difficulty from very easy so that even complete beginers will find it a breeze , to 
 the hardcore skill level which is near impossible on some races for the average gamer. When you 
 do manage to complete all the races in that tournement you get awarded with a 'Cup' this will be 
 from Brone to Platinum depending on the difficulty you complete the tournement in though it can 
 get a little repetitive racing Tournement after Tournement. The more races you in the more 'Kudos' 
 you will recive which is the games system of rewarding you for overtaking someone , taking a good 
 corner or 'Drifting' your car. You also get Kudos points from winning races in which you can treat 
 yourself to a new car to add to your garage , it features a cool option to get out and walk about 
 your garage and view your cars.
  
  The sound is allmost as good as the graphics and that is good! Just hearing the engine of your 
 car and skidding of tires from your car as it skids round a corner is just a really cool effect. 
 The game also boasts a great sound track ranging from . Hip Hop to Rock to Bangra even Japanese 
 Pop music! So everyone should find something that they can enjoy in the soundtrack. To get the 
 full effect you really need a surround sound 5.1 setup. But theres nothing stopping you enjoying 
 the sound without Surround sound as it still sounds really amazing.
  
  Overall the game is a solid launch title and is a must buy for any racing fan , even if you are 
 not I still highly recoment that you check this out as its the Killer App of the 360 launch lineup 
 with amazing offline and online alike aswell as a solid framerate with great graphics and sound! 
 Awesome!
  
  9.1%
  
  9/10 Graphics
  9/10 Sound
  8/10 Gameplay
  9/10 Value
  9/10 Tilt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atarii
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  First, you'll notice how beautiful PGR3 is. Oh course you will, it's a new generation of hardware 
 it's running on.... so graphics are expected to be amazing. Where the game shines is online play. 
 If you have XBOX LIVE, you'll likely end up playing more online that you will offline. You have 
 to unlock all the really good cars through single player, but once you unlock a favorite, kiss 
 the single player goodbye. I haven't experienced any lag online as of yet. The options are numerous. 
 The competition fierce. The overall quality is phenomenal. It's an average racing game that screams 
 high preformace. If you're looking for the best racing game on the XBOX 360 you've come to your 
 destination - PGR3. A game the hardcore gamers can enjoy as well as the more casual gamers. Now, 
 get online and start trash talking to the guy you just blew by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_newsome
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  PGR has always been a great title and PGR3 doesnt fail it's predecessors. The only problem i found 
 is that although it has improved graphics and amazing cars the solo career is so linear , most 
 of the game types are the same i. e. hot lap and timed are the same thing.. you have to complete 
 a lap in a time period. Then you have street race and one on one the only difference being you 
 race either one or 3 other cars. and Time vs Kudos and cone challenge were basically your have 
 to get round a track gaining a certain amount of kudos. But with online play it gives this game 
 a whole new life a great one at that otherwise i would have to say its PGR2 again just with a bit 
 of make up. It's definately a must buy if you enjoy driving games.
  
  Difficulty - Just right as there a 5 difficulty settings for the easy to the extreme and on platinum 
 (hardest) u have to drive fast and perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MortalMoxie
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  The mix of arcade and simulation style control makes this game extremely enjoyable. It's even more 
 fun on LIVE. 
  
  Such a great launch title. 
  
  The car modeling is wonderful. The garages are fun and satisfying to unlock. Walking around the 
 garage alone is fun. The cars look so real with the HDR lighting and bloom effects. Motion blur 
 is another great but subtle effect. 
  
  The course creator adds some replay value, and being able to have other people race on your custom 
 courses online is a great bonus. 
  
  The controls are balanced well. The competition is tough, especially when pursuing your Platinum 
 badges. 
  
  All around a great game and launch title. 
  
  Thanks, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Bizarre Creations part arcade, part simulation next generation racer for the Xbox 360 proves to 
 be a superb game indeed. To back this up, Bizarre have employed some pretty impressive technical 
 feats making this overall package one worthy of your attention, and money. 
  
  The first time you load the game and soak in those bright high definition visuals, you may just 
 need to scoop your jaw off the floor. Car models are exceptionally realistic and exquisitely detailed. 
 They also have the most realistic reflections ever seen in a racing game. Lights of varying colours 
 can be seen bending in your car's curvature, and the windows will also similarly reflect and bend 
 light. 
  
  Also visually stunning is the game's many racing locations, especially Vegas and Tokyo. Cruising 
 down the night time lit streets of Tokyo is a true pleasure, and one of the most stunning moments 
 in the game - which is saying quite a lot, believe me. Buildings are wonderfully detailed and believable, 
 with insane attention to detail across the board. 
  
  You can see lights reflecting and bending in skyscraper windows, and there are huge draw distances 
 with little to no pop-up. The game's lighting system is also very impressive. Little details such 
 as glaringly bright light as you emerge from a darker shaded area or tunnel actually affects your 
 field of view and so on and so forth. 
  
  But for all the glorious visual chemistry witnessed in-game, there are some minor drawbacks that 
 spoil the score slightly. The problem I am referring to is some minor aliasing issues. Unlike the 
 majority of Xbox 360 launch games, PGR3 hasnt cranked the anti-aliasing filter up quite as high 
 as it needed. 
  
  Car models when viewed up close, or finer objects (such as road signs and telephone or electrical 
 wires) appear marginally jagged around the edges. Some areas in the game are not as bad as others, 
 but in all this is an issue I feel reduces the graphics score one point. Had Bizarre spent just 
 a little longer perfecting this, PGR3 would have scored a ten-out-of-ten in this department. 
 
  
  Elsewhere, PGR3 is a truly great game. The online and offline modes are stunning, with plenty of 
 cars and tracks to choose from, and lots of depth to the single player career mode that'll keep 
 you busy for a long time. PGR3 simply is the finest racer on the Xbox 360 as of writing, and a 
 game well worth all of its many accolades. 
  
  Overall Score:
  
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serrin102
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Though Project Gotham Racing 3 is my first real attempt at the series, Ive found that the initial 
 review posted is incorrect in some matters. Not only is the game up to par in respects to the technical 
 aspects of the car and the physics involved with the driving of each vehicle, but the graphics 
 are superbly done. The initial review stated that PGR3 would have been a better game if it had 
 incorporated an even minimal amount of damage modeling. Im not sure what copy of PGR3 you own, 
 but my copy does have minimal damage modeling. It may not be to the extent of Burnout Revenge, 
 keep in mind that this is a technical racing game, but it does have some damage modeling. For 
 example, the hood will pop open if you ram into the backs of cars or walls, the rear end will buckle 
 slightly upon impact, scrapes will appear upon the side panels, etc. 
  
  All in all, PGR3 is an excellent game. The graphics are top-notch for an early release next-gen 
 game, the sounds are electrifying  especially when changing view from 3rd person to 1st person 
 (inside the car) , the game play is smooth and the physics involved with driving are solid.
  
  I not only believe that PGR3 will be a must have title, but already has what it takes to be 
 a classic in the Xbox 360s library.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LONFR
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  One of the hallmarks of the PGR series has always been its volume -- the large numbers of tracks 
 set in a variety of exotic locales, and a list of drivable cars that, based on sheer numbers alone, 
 set the mouths of car aficionados agape. That number has been pared down considerably in PGR 3, 
 to around 80 vehicles. But what an 80 it is. Instead of starting you out in a modest VW Corrado 
 or Honda CRX, right off the bat in PGR 3 you'll have access to some of the hottest high-performance 
 rides in the world. Models from elite makers such as Ferrari, TVR, RUFs, Mercedes, Lotus, and Shelby 
 are available to you from the get-go -- provided you have the credits to pay for them, of course. 
 
  
  Luckily, money comes quick in PGR 3, thanks to the game's centerpiece, the career mode. The mode's 
 been split into two subsections -- a solo career that has you take on artificial intelligence-controlled 
 drivers, and an online career mode that pits you against real-life drivers in a number of online 
 events. By completing events over a variety of difficulty levels (like in PGR 2, difficulty is 
 noted by medals ranging from tin to platinum) , you earn credits that pile up quickly and let you 
 fill your garages (yes, note the plural) with the coolest collection of performance autos imaginable. 
 
  
  When it comes to mission variety, PGR 3's solo career mode will feel very familiar to anyone who's 
 played the PGR series before. You'll have your straight-ahead street races, of course, which will 
 pit you against one or more other opponents in a fight to the checkered flag, and elimination races -- multilap 
 sprints in which the last driver over the finish line is eliminated on each successive lap. There's 
 more to do than simply drive fast -- in the PGR world, driving with style is just as important as 
 stomping on the accelerator and pointing your nose at the finish line. So the kudos system is back, 
 serving as a measure of your ability to feather your car around corners, maintain awesome drifts 
 around tight turns, and avoid the ever-present walls and other barriers. 
  
  Like the cash in PGR 3, kudos seem to be easier to earn this time around -- though that could be 
 a function of the incredible power of the cars in the game, which are at once very agreeable to 
 drift-style driving, and fairly easy to control in the process. If you've got some touch behind 
 the virtual wheel, for example, you can slalom your way down long straights, spinning your back 
 wheels practically the entire time, racking up massive kudos along the way. In some timed runs, 
 earning kudos will temporarily pause the countdown clock that you're running against; thus, these 
 kudos versus time races are challenges that require a fine balance of race speed and skillful touch. 
 As easy as kudos are to earn, however, you won't just breeze your way through the kudo-centric 
 cone challenges. At the hardest difficulty level, these races require not only improvisation on 
 the course, to ensure your combo chain isn't broken, but a sniper's accuracy behind the wheel, 
 to navigate the tough placement of the cones. It can be frustrating or invigorating, depending 
 on your mindset.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 17, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing hasnt been around for too long but it has made a name for itself within 
 the racing genre over the last couple of years. With its unique blend of racing and stylish moves 
 and combos it really has hit a niche in the market that appeals to the masses. There is a lot of 
 expectation surrounding this game, not only because fans want to know what direction the series 
 is heading but more importantly they want to know how this game will shape up going into the next 
 generation. This is also one of the big titles for the 360 line-up and could effectively make 
 or break the systems success for years to come, so no pressure.
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 quite honestly is more of the same and while that usually turns out to 
 be a bad thing in this case the series is sticking to what it does best. The right shoulder button 
 is accelerator and the left is brake so people who are familiar with the series should feel right 
 at home the second they switch on their games. The courses again are pretty similar to what you 
 have seen in previous instalments but this time they look a lot better. The handling of the game 
 even feels pretty similar although it does feel a tad more difficult to keep you car from losing 
 control with the slightly modified physics system. So while the game isnt entirely groundbreaking 
 it does implement some new features to the series that validates it as a sequel in its own right.
 
  
  Bizarre have separated the single-player portion and the online portion of this game so that youre 
 required to achieve Kudos in each of them in order to rank up. Kudos are still earned in the exact 
 same way here, you pull off a variety of elaborate moves and stringing them together gives you 
 even more bonuses. The variety of moves hasnt really expanded unfortunately and the courses arent 
 that elaborate that they are going to be putting you on the edge throughout a whole race so things 
 may get a little repetitive from time to time. There are still 16 ways to achieve Kudos and achieving 
 them all in 1 race will offer rewards but other than that the system needs a little more depth. 
 Clean sections and catching air are just some of the recycled ways to obtain those all important 
 Kudos.
  
  There are a whole host of modes available to you within the game, the main single-player mode is 
 called Gotham Career mode and follows a format most racing games take. You do a set of races 
 and you win a trophy, you unlock a new set of races which you then win and unlock another set of 
 races. This system is simple yet works better than the old ranking system they had in place, you 
 always know where your next race or challenge is coming from but at the same time youre not restricted 
 to the one race or challenge; you always have a handful to choose from. You will find various types 
 of races and challenges here, from eliminator races right up to time vs. kudos challenges. These 
 require you to use the right amount of speed and tricks to get to the finish line before the time 
 runs out and are a refreshing change in-between street races. This mode consists of 22 trophies 
 in all and shouldnt take you that long to get through on medium difficulty which is somewhat of 
 a shame. It does however invite you to raise the difficulty and play through it again to improve 
 your skills as a Gotham racer. What you will notice unfortunately as you play through the game 
 is how easy it is to accumulate money, after a few races you will be looking at your bank balance 
 and thinking a few more races and I can afford the most expensive car in the game. With the added 
 catch of this game being easier than the last you cant help but feel they are making it a little 
 too easy to buy cars. Dont get me wrong though, even the most veteran of Gotham players will still 
 find the hardcore difficulty challenging but even playing through it on easy will rack up more 
 Kudos than perhaps you deserve. The AI is still great just like in previous games and can be pretty 
 unforgiving at times. Making the smallest of mistakes on the harder difficulties could ultimately 
 see the computer controlled racers drive off into the distance without ever being caught. This 
 will see you replaying levels to find the ideal racing line which some players may find a tad tedious 
 but thats one of the things I love about racing games personally. One more thing worth mentioning 
 is the pretty hefty loading times, this can become frustrating, especially if you have to keep 
 restarting a course several times in order to acheive a medal.
  
  There are some new modes this time around and most of them come in the form of Gotham TV. This 
 has a whole host of features that are bound to keep you busy when youre not racing around tracks 
 and decimating your opponents. The most notable is probably the Gotham Heroes channel which lets 
 you see the best players from all over the world race online. An impressive 30,000 people can simultaneously 
 watch as the action unfolds and that is pretty special by any standards. All of this works off 
 the online leader boards which are also easily accessible, so you can check how well youre doing 
 against the cr&egrave; me de la cr&egrave; me. Alternatively you can tune into the Friends TV channel 
 and watch them instead. You will also be kept up to date with all the latest scores via bulletins 
 that run along the screen, so you never miss a moment of the action.
  
  There are also two other less enthusing modes you can delve into in Photo Editor mode and Create-a-Route 
 mode and each one pretty much explains itself. The Photo Editor allows you to take screenshots 
 during replays and edit them anyway you see fit, whether that be simply changing the colouring 
 and the brightness or venturing onto the more challenging tools at your disposal. Create-a-Route 
 mode is a quick and easy way to build a custom track from a selection of 5 different areas from 
 around the world. Dont get too excited though, this is a very basic editor and doesnt offer much 
 in terms of depth.
  
  As you have already read Project Gotham Racing 3 will once again be embarking onto Xbox Live but 
 what you may not know is this is achievable through two separate modes. The first way to connect 
 is through the single-player career mode, all the cars you have worked hard to purchase will be 
 ready for use against your competitors. Very similar to the offline career mode you can race in 
 themed races and events online, this adds huge value to a game that was clearly meant to be played 
 online. You can also connect through Playtime mode which is also the place you can race your 
 friends, this is essentially just multiplayer with a different name. The online ranking system 
 is also worth a mention, as you earn Kudos online you will rank up and this will give fans something 
 to achieve long after they have completed the single-player areas of the game. You can rank up 
 from a Rookie to a full-fledged Gotham Star and perhaps one day feature on Gotham TV for the entire 
 world to see.
  
  There are 80 cars in this game and each are incredibly detailed, each car is made up of about 80,000 
 polygons divided between interior and the exterior. Each car looks so polished and beautiful and 
 if you play through the game using the in-car view some of the effects are truly amazing. From 
 the driver moving about to change gears to reflections from the dashboard and the mirrors is at 
 times amazing. The courses arent half bad either, enormous amounts of detail have been added to 
 the cities and even the crowd, infact some of the buildings alone in this game use up more polygons 
 that whole cities in the original Project Gotham Racing. While the graphics do beat anything this 
 generation has to offer I dont think it is quite good enough for a next generation game though 
 but as this is a launch title I have to judge it on that merit. The sound effects in this game 
 are great and really immerse you in the game, its a shame the soundtrack doesnt match it but 
 there is some good stuff thrown in there. Most of it is techno though and can grate on you after 
 a while, luckily this game features the option of a custom soundtrack and you can pretty much listen 
 to anything you please. As with the graphical side of the game the in-car view the game offers 
 is what I would recommend if you want the full audio experience with this game.
  
  Gameplay - Solid gameplay, sticks to a formula that works and does a good job ion keeping thing's 
 fresh.
  
  Graphics - Superb visuals but this is the next generation and expectations are inevitably higher.
 
  
  Sound - Great sound effects. immersive and each car sounds more realistic than ever.
  
  Value - Achieving the top rank online and offline will keep you busy for a long time, some 
 new modes thrown in for short-term interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kewz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game are great. The gameplay is fun not repetative. Really no storey mode 
 like need for speed underground or Midnight club 3. But overal if you want a game were u can just 
 pick up and have fun racing exotic cars this is it. no tuning here just pick a hot car and race. 
 As far as multiplayer mode its great if you play ranked games people are chessy will try to smash 
 u against a wall and your ranking will always suffer. But if you are lik me and just play unranked 
 matches just to race for fun this game is for u. No stress trying to customize the hottest car 
 cause honestly every single car in here is goregous, I highly recommend this game and for the price 
 of 49.99 instead of need for spead 59.99 this is a worth buy for any racing heads out there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakey1512
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  PGR3. Let me say this is one game you need to pick up right away. Its racing is arcade - sim orientated. 
 
  
  If you dont know already, arcade racing is something along the lines of burnout. Racing, but not 
 so seriouisly.
  
  Sim - Realistic racing, physics are tight so the turning requires skill without just holding the 
 accelerator around the corner.
  
  PGR3 holds both. It is not fully sim because most tracks are street based, and the physics are 
 not impossible to master.
  
  Not to mention the great in-car view. Perfect. Looking for cities to race aorund? Good, because 
 youve got tokyo, london, new york, las vegas and the NURBURGRING!!!!!!! (horror music plays) Its 
 basicly a huge track based in Germany with a cool F1 circuit in the middle.
  
  Now for the ratings! And rantings :' (
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Out of the games ive played 
 and seen (11) this has to have the best graphics IMHO worthy of next-gen title. Pixel perfect, 
 not to mention just ONE bridges detail. over 60,000 polygons used to model one bridge. And a single 
 car has around 80,000 polygons. Detail and realism right here.
  
  Sound - 9/10
  
  This is what let the game down a bit. Ill say the other later. The sound of the engines is crisp, 
 and very well done. The music however. You can just mute the music volume but even if you do, a 
 pop-up comes up with the music currently playing. This blocks nearly 1/10 of the screen and it 
 has to be where the speed-o-meter is. Other than that, Great.
  
  Gameplay - 7/10
  
  Now the let down. Single player wise and non ranked multi? Very good. Gets a 10/10 from me. Ranked 
 Online? about a 4/10. Pathetic. In online you 
  get to choose between playtime (unranked) and Online career (ranked) . Not that the system itself 
 is corrupt, but the idiots that pollute the ranked atmosphere by ramming, pushing and slamming 
 you into walls. Hitting the back end of a car slightly will be enough to spin a car out. Accident? 
 Maybe. Not when theygo HAHAHAHA SUXXOR YOU SUCK if some fool does it to you. It happens too much. 
 Not to mention if you win a ranked race the idiots who you just owned and that tried to take you 
 out will be little brats and leave you bad reputation. If your not sure about rep its a system 
 that gives you a rating out of 5 stars. You start on 3. Good rep means it goes up a little bit. 
 Bad rep takes it down quickly. Good? Yes. Easy to abuse YES. 
  If your looking for a ranked racing game be prepared for abuse. Oh and boosters. Just like halo 
 2. 
  Its ranked that lets this game down. 
  
  Now that ive had my little rant!
  
  Rent or buy? Well if what ive said about online has scared you a wee bit, rent it first (if you 
 can) otherwise, go buy it. It has more good points than bad.
  
  Final score: 8.9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike28647
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Kudos to you Bizarre for creating such a great racing game for everyone to enjoy. I love it... 
 the cars, the levels, Love it all. You start with enough money to get some very decent cars, the 
 lowest performing car is the Ferrari Testorosa for cryin out loud, and thats great, with that, 
 it leaves with anticipation for what you can get later. There are so many choices of cars to get 
 I still havent tried them all out yet and i have had the game for almost 2 months now. Very fun 
 if you have a friend to race with and very fun to race online with. But why are Porche's called 
 RUF's? I have no idea but I still love the car. Every car handles differently and every car has 
 a great look to it. Cars look like they should with all the logos and names in the right places, 
 from spoilers to hood scoops, all are wonderfully detailed to look like there real-life counterparts. 
 Great game for anyone to play, bottom line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdc125
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The Project Gotham Racing series has always been about fast cars, insane graphics, and tight controls, 
 but the third installment in the series takes the cake in all three categories. 
  Graphically, the car models are extremely detailed, and are very realistic. The car interior looks 
 exactly like the real thing (in first person of course) , and you'll be blow away by the way the 
 car reacts to the environment . 
  Of course the car's themselves offer quite a selection. Will you buy a car with slow acceleration, 
 but better drifting, grip, and braking to navigate those tight corners easily? Or will you go for 
 the speed demon cars that sacrifice control for raging speed? The choice is yours, and you can 
 hold up to 4 cars in your garage. Say your playing a course with large and easy turns and long 
 stretches, you would go for the speed demon car. But if you were playing a course with say.. many 
 small narrow turns? You would go for the car with the most control. This is just one of the many 
 ways PGR3 incorporates strategy into the game.
  The control in this game is as tight as it ever was. It shines while using the sleek, light 360 
 wireless controller. Using the right trigger to accelerate and the left trigger to break is genius. 
 It takes a few hours to get used to the control, but soon you'll be thinking how you ever played 
 any other racing game without these great controls.
  The sound in the game is also superb. It has a multitude of great licensed tracks and a variety 
 of music styles. Be it Hip-Hop, Rock, J-Pop , or Classical, the music always adds a great element 
 to the game play. The engine sounds and car sound effects are also amazingly realistic. 
  GR3 incorporates Xbox Live into is game play in such a way that you can tell it is truly next-gen. 
 For example, Gotham T. V. is a new feature that lets you watch you and your friends race's against 
 each other so you can tell were you went wrong if you lost (and how to make your racing stronger 
 if you won) . You can also see the best racers on PGR on the Heroes channel. You can watch them 
 do races, to study there strategy and aspire to be on that channel one day. 
  Overall PGR3 is a great game, and truly delivers the next-gen feel for your new and shiny Xbox 
 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Sense of speed very well done
  - Great visuals and animation 
  - Lots of Replay value / Online play
  - The in-car view is really cool 
  
  The Bad:
  - 
 Loading Times are way too much
  - Ruins your Forza skills with Kudos system
  - Too many menus in the GUI
  - Too much emphasis on Kudos
  - Online players that crash into 
 you all the time
  - Some Online tracks are not well suited to Car Class
  
  Gameplay: What you expect from a driving game with the cool extra in-car view but if you're playing 
 too many hours it's gonna get you dizzy with the shaking and vibrating etc... I'm not a big fan 
 of the Kudos system and the ridiculously high scores you have to get to achieve platinum status. 
 And all you Forza or F1 fans will ruin your good driving skills with the Kudos system. Having said 
 all of that, it's lots of fun with the online races too, pretty cool and really competitive.
  
  Graphics: Looks next-gen, not incredible but great.
  
  Sound: What you expect. The only 
 bad thing is that you don't hear your car sound accelerating when opponents are close and that 
 can make you shift late/early sometimes.
  
  Value: Obviously a lot of replay value with the 5 difficulty levels and online play and the 360 
 achievements which are really well balanced for this game.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Some customization would've been nice, at least custom colors and logos. Less 
 emphasis on Kudos. A better online racing system where collisions are penalized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_ghost
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham racing 3 is an Xbox 360 exclusive racing game that is the much anticipated sequel 
 to one of the Xboxs best racers in Project Gotham racing 2. Bizarre creations which has made all 
 the PGR delivers another high caliber intensity driven and amazing looking racing game in PGR 3. 
 The game features a huge roster of extremely fast cars, looks great and is easily one of the best 
 looking and play Xbox 360 games at launch. It improves drastically over PGR 2 and PGR and is probably 
 the best racing game on the Xbox 360 to date.
  
  Cost: 69.99 cdn
  ESRB: E 10+ everyone 10 or older
  Genre: racing
  Platform: Xbox 360
  Online: Lots of it
 
  
  PGR 3 is one of the 19 launch games for the Xbox 360. as with any console launch there are certain 
 games people look at to be good with the X360 we had Kameo, Perfect Dark, Call of Duty 2 and of 
 course PGR 3. Thankfully PGR 3 lives up to many of the expectations laid upon it and really helps 
 to bring the caliber of the Xbox 360s launch up with its great Gameplay, sound and especially 
 graphics.
  
  The PGR series like most racers nowadays has always featured tons and tons of cars to race in and 
 unlock as you play through the single player portions of the game. PGR 3 takes an entirely new 
 stance to this in several ways. First off the car roster for PGR 3 is much less then before at 
 only 80 cars in total. All the cars in the game are available to you at any given time that you 
 want them, that is if you have the credits to buy them. Also what it lacks in quantity PGR 3 more 
 then makes up for in sheer quality of the racing cars. You wont be racing against your typical 
 slow cars only the fastest cars make the cut for this game and all are very very fast cars. Essentially 
 all the cars are there for you just need to earn the means to get them in PGR 3s races both online 
 and offline.
  
  These credits are seemingly much easier to earn in PGR 3. Youll earn these credits in both offline 
 (single player) and online (multiplayer) races in PGR 3. The credits are earned through the wide 
 variety of PGR 3s single player modes and races. As in previous PGR games there are several main 
 racing modes that winning will earn you a large amount of credits. There is the street races which 
 are standard to any racer and have you racing a track for a certain amount of laps, then the eliminator 
 races at which the last placed racer every lap is eliminated, time races which you aim for a certain 
 time on the track to finish. Some of the easiness of earning credits is due to the availability 
 of the cars and you can get a super fast car early on to help you through the game the other part 
 is the style part of the race. And due to that we see the return of the Kudos system to a PGR 
 game just like in the previous two games. The Kudos system however is implemented much better 
 then in previous volumes of the series. The kudos is timed races where you have to get to a point 
 in a certain time will freeze the time temporarily allowing you to advance without a time penalty. 
 There are a few tricks to master to earning massive amounts of kudos but learning them isnt the 
 hard part but mastering them is. The hardest part in terms of kudos are the cone challenges in 
 the game which are ludicrously hard to the point of frustration for most. These cone challenges 
 are the race types that will having you seeing just how far that wireless controller will go in 
 the air or what it takes to smash one in a wall. When you finish one though youll feel a huge 
 sense of invigoration as you just beat one of the toughest parts of the game. At the hardest difficulty 
 even the most skilled PGR 3 drivers will have a tough time beating the challenges.
  
  The game is not easy to begin with and the tougher modes of difficulties it becomes a massive challenge. 
 This is due for the most part to the quality of the A. I in the game. The A. I. is not only smart 
 racers but they are willing to bump you and force you off the track as much as you will bump them 
 off the track. The games A. I. is also punishing if you make mistakes. A few mistakes during a race 
 and they are gone. Youll probably be racing most races a couple of times to finish first solely 
 to learn the tracks and where the tougher turns are and where youll be looking to drift, brake 
 and accelerate. The A. I. is tops for racing games and makes the game a challenge to a degree in 
 every race against them especially at the hardest difficulty setting. For example if you take a 
 turn wrong and come to a dead halt the A. I. is cunning and by the time you get going again out 
 of the corner will have gained drastically on you, possibly hit you or pulled away full throttle.
 
  
  The single player is only half of the game. There are 23 events to complete in single player career 
 of PGR 3. Youll finish all 23 events initially in about 7-12 hours and if your aiming for straight 
 Golds at the default difficultly youre looking at around 15-17 hours of play. The events all 
 have enough variety to keep you coming back and playing more to not only win all the races but 
 to boost your XBL gamer score and earn all the achievements for the game. The good news is that 
 Solo career is only half the battle and after youve racked up enough hours against the game itself 
 you can take PGR 3 online in the aptly named online career.
  
  Online career is PGR 3 best feature hands down. Despite the strong single player Campaign PGR 3 
 has one of the best XBL modes for X360. The only games coming near it are COD 2 and PD0. For any 
 non-shooter fan PGR 3 is the online game to get. It features ranked matches and Gotham TV. All 
 races are stat tracked and youll be constantly playing to increase your rank online. In that sense 
 your online career is never over no matter how many races you win or how good you are. Youll always 
 be playing to increase your rank and trying to become one of the highest ranks in the world. The 
 online portion of the game is easily its strongest feature and adds in a sense unlimited value 
 to the game and unlimited hours for anyone with XBL. 
  
  Online mode contains all the standard variants you have come to expect from racers online over 
 the last generation. Standard lap races against opponents as well as elimination races. The coolest 
 mode by far is the capture the track mode in which youll be racing to have the fastest time on 
 certain sections of the track to capture it. This mode is extremely addictive and one of the 
 best things PGR 3 brings to the table. There is also the standard optimatch and quick match variants 
 found in almost all racing games. All these variants add a lot of depth and can be used to break 
 up the career mode. And really in a capture the track mode racing against some annoying guy there 
 is such a great feeling when you finish owning almost all of track or the entire track in the race.
 
  
  The final main feature of online play is Gotham TV. The idea is pretentious as you can watch replays 
 of races or just watch the hottest races going down currently. The question many people were asking 
 is it interesting enough? And to a degree yes. If youre stuck on figuring out a turn on a track 
 or what the pros think is the best line on a track. Occasionally its fun to just see how good they 
 are and a bunch of the top people go at it. you wont be watching it f or hours on end and any point 
 unless your really bored but the majority of people will watch a few races here and there if only 
 to see how they race and how to do better overall. Its an interesting feature and I expect a few 
 games to implement a version of it especially racing games like PGR 3. 
  
  On top of the solid but not perfect Gameplay PGR 3 for the most part looks phenomenal. Its a true 
 graphical showcase for the X360 and for the most part is drop dead gorgeous. The environments themselves 
 are astounding. The trees, buildings, houses, plains, tracks and anything else youll see are the 
 best looking for a racing game out there. Frequently I found myself gazing at the landscape less 
 then the road due to how good it looks. Then we come to the cars. The exterior of the cars is solid 
 but they seem way too shiny and almost the same shininess to a degree of plastic. Thats really 
 the biggest problem with the graphics. The highlight is the interior of the cars. The literally 
 have to be seen to believe. Each car I raced in I drove the interior camera just to see what the 
 interior looked like. It truly a sight to see and something that definitely couldnt have been 
 done on any current generation console. The game also runs a solid frame rate of 30 FPS. According 
 to bizarre this was to due to time restraints as they wanted this to be a launch title. Still it 
 never runs down or lags up online and offline which is really good. The game has some of the premiere 
 graphics for the Xbox 360 and IMO is the true graphical showcase for the console.
  
  The sound in PGR 3 is also really good. The default soundtrack for the game is one of the better 
 ones especially in comparison to Burnout 3s or most other racing games. The engine sounds on the 
 other hand are terrific. Each engine sounds fairly unique and listening to them go is fantastic. 
 Also any problems you may have with in game soundtrack can be overcome if you own an HDD for your 
 X360 or an iPod as its supports custom soundtracks. The game actually sounds really good especially 
 compared to previous PGR games in which the blunt of the cars all sounded the same, the cars sound 
 more realistic then ever before but there still seems to be a large degree of similarity to them 
 unlike pure racing simulators which have the largest variety of cars sounds. Still thats the only 
 real complaint anyone can have with the sound in this game and its even less so if you got your 
 5.1 surround sound going around you. The 5.1surround sound addition also really immerses you into 
 the game as its surrounds you.
  
  PGR 3 is definitely one of the best Xbox 360 launch titles you can get your hands on. Very few 
 racing games are able to accomplish what PGR 3 does so well. The online mode is probably the best 
 for any racing game currently and will have you playing for a long time maybe even until PGR 4 
 or Forza 2. It has a great sense of style and only a few minor issues that keep it from being supreme 
 amongst the genre. Any racing fan or just anyone looking for a top quality and high end racing 
 game should look no further then PGR 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bishamon_tenno
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  The XBox 360 is finally here, and with it comes the sequel to one of the best racing games of all 
 time. Project Gotham Racing 3 retains the basic gameplay elements that made the previous game a 
 success. You race on courses through real cities, earning kudos points for driving with style 
 (i. e. drifting around corners, racing clean, drafting other cars, catching air, etc.) . Along with 
 various street races, there are cone challenges (where you gain kudos by chaining combos and driving 
 through cone gates) , drift challenges, speed cameras (where you try to hit a speed goal at a certain 
 point on the track) , time trials, and elimination events (where the car in last place at the end 
 of each lap is eliminated) . These challenges provide much more variety and fun than just racing 
 the same tracks over and over.
  The Project Gotham series has always featured fast cars, but this time they have taken things to 
 a whole new level. Whereas the previous game included vehicles like the Mini Cooper and Honda Civic, 
 in PGR3 the cars start at fast and go all the way to ludicrous speed! Just to give you some idea, 
 the Lamborghini Countach and Ferrari Testarossa are in the SLOWEST class of cars. The developer, 
 Bizarre Creations, figured that most people just want to drive the supercars, so they took out 
 all of the filler and left us with the best-of-the-best. The previous game divided vehicles into 
 categories based on type (such as Compact Sports and Sport Utility) , while PGR3 divides cars into 
 five performance categories with the letters E through A (A being the fastest) . Also, instead of 
 having to work your way through the slow classes of cars to get to the good ones, you can actually 
 start with a high performance vehicle. The only limitation is money; generally, the more insane 
 cars cost more money, but you can actually purchase a class A car right from the start  the 
 Ariel Atom 300 Supercharged. You earn money by completing events, and youll be able to afford 
 the cars you want in no time. Also, the game will base your challenges or opponents on the class 
 of car you are currently using. So, if you prefer driving a class C car for whatever reason, you 
 can continue to use that car without having your ass kicked by a bunch of class A hooligans. 
 This is similar to the way opponents were handled in the original Project Gotham game, allowing 
 you to choose any car for any event instead of restricting you to a particular class. The artificial 
 intelligence of the computer-controlled opponents is very good, making the races challenging without 
 being frustrating (unless you are trying an event on the hardcore difficulty level) . The vehicles 
 handle wonderfully; the developer has found the perfect blend of realism and arcade racing which 
 produces drivable performance cars that arent impossible to control. The number of vehicles is 
 down to 80, which is slightly less than last time, however, every single car is fast and desirable. 
 They include vehicles like the Nissan R390 GT1, Honda NSX GT2 Turbo, Koenigsegg CCR, Lamborghini 
 Gallardo, McLaren F1 LM, Ferrari F50 GT, the Pagani Zonda C12-S, the Radical SR3 Turbo, TVR Sagaris, 
 and on, and on. The selection is staggering! I only wish they had included some of the classics 
 from the last game, such as the Ferrari 250 GTO and Toyota 2000GT, but I suppose those wouldnt 
 be fast enough to compete.
  The online element in PGR3 is more prevalent than ever. Even when playing your solo career, the 
 game is always ranking your progress against the rest of the world, or you can filter the results 
 to compare your achievements with just those of your friends. You can also download ghosts of the 
 best drivers to race against and see how they managed to achieve those incredible times, or tune 
 in to the heroes channel on Gotham TV and watch the top drivers compete live. There is a separate 
 online career where you can race against up to 7 other drivers on any of the tracks in the game. 
 At first glance, 8 cars may not sound like a lot, but some of the courses can get pretty crowded 
 with that many vehicles racing at once. New this time around is the Route Creator, which allows 
 you to design your own courses by placing waypoints on maps of the cities. You can then race on 
 these tracks against your friends online.
  We cant discuss a next-generation videogame without mentioning the graphics. The level of detail 
 in both the cars and environments is incredible! The reflections on the paint and windows look 
 real, carbon fibre panels look like real carbon fibre panels, and the buildings and storefronts 
 appear as though you could walk right in! The cities in the game (London, Las Vegas, New York, 
 and Tokyo) are faithfully reproduced and easily recognizable. There is so much detail that it actually 
 takes a while for it to sink in. The realistic motion-blur effect hides the details in the buildings 
 when you are driving by at 170+ mph; you have to slow down to fully appreciate the work. Its also 
 difficult to see how much effort has gone into the cars if you are playing from an external view. 
 Closer inspection is required to see how realistically the vehicles have been rendered. PGR3 also 
 has the most incredible in-car view; the interiors have been meticulously recreated, from gauges 
 to pedals, and the windshield has a bunch of additional effects such as light reflections and dust 
 build up that increase the level of realism. As in the last game, the cars do take some physical 
 damage, but it is very minor compared to what would really occur when crashing into a wall or another 
 vehicle at top speed, and there is no effect on the handling of your car. They could have just 
 left damage out of the game altogether, but it does provide a bit of satisfaction when you complete 
 a particularly tough race with a few scars and bruises. While an HDTV is required to fully benefit 
 graphically from this next generation title, on a decent standard television it still looks noticeably 
 superior to the best the last generation of consoles has to offer. To further allow the graphics 
 to be appreciated, a photo mode has been included which permits you to pause the game at any time, 
 move the camera around your car in three dimensions, take a picture, and then add graphical effects 
 to the image. It surprising how much time you can lose just taking pictures and retouching them.
 
  Project Gotham Racing 3 isnt a perfect game. The load times could be shorter, the damage modeling 
 isnt as substantial as it could be, and I do occasionally miss being able to drive down the city 
 streets in a performance SUV. However, the improvements far outweigh any omissions. Bizarre Creations 
 have created a real work of art with one of the most exciting racing experiences yet, both online 
 and offline, and they have provided a showcase must have launch title for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawnm00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  OK, I admit, I wasn't crazy about the last PGR. To me, the controls were very tight and after playing 
 a game like Burnout, it's a bit of a frustrating learning curve. But, I guess the graphics of the 
 360 gave me reason to study the controls in PGR, and I'll humbly admit that it was worth it.
  
  If you've read any of my reviews on the Burnout series, you'll know my thoughts there. Burnout 
 is the best of the arcade racers, in my opinion. However, PGR isn't really an arcade racer, it's 
 more of a sim. The cars are real, the tracks are from real streets in real cities, and the controls 
 are probably a bit more real (although I couldn't tell you for sure since I've never driven a Lamborghini 
 at 200mph down Las Vegas Boulevard) . So, my love for Burnout aside, PGR is an extremely fun and 
 well put together game.
  
  First off: the graphics. This game shows what the 360 can really do. I mean, WOW! The details, 
 the reflections, the streets, the lighting, it's all fantastic! Even driving at night, which could 
 be a problem in the older versions, is downright beautiful in this game. I love the true to life 
 depictions of the cities. I've been to New York all my life and felt the tracks there were dead-on. 
 Vegas, too is very impressively done (and quite fun I might add) . I love watching the replays almost 
 as much as driving in the races themselves. It's just wonderful to look at.
  
  The sound is good, but not fantastic. What I do like is the different engine sounds and the use 
 of surround sound. You really can hear your opponent coming up from behind you. And there are distinct 
 differences in the sound when you play from outside the car versus in the car. Very nicely done. 
 My only complaint is the music. I really enjoy the selections in Burnout better and its sad that 
 you cant use a custom playlist from your Xbox hard drive.
  
  As for the gameplay, its definitely a lot fun. However, if youre use to Burnout or other arcade 
 racers, there is a steep learning curve. The cars dont stop on a dime and they dont corner like 
 an arcade racer. So, it takes some getting used to. Honestly, Im still a novice at it myself, 
 but that doesnt stop me from enjoying the game. I think thats one of my biggest complements on 
 this one: you dont have to play at hardcore level in order to enjoy the perks of the game. Sure, 
 the tougher your difficulty setting, the greater the reward, but, you can win enough races to earn 
 enough money to buy that top of the line Ferrari if you want. And its a lot of fun getting there. 
 The challenges can be tough. And I do think the skill level of the AI jumps quite a bit from Easy 
 to Medium setting (I havent even tried Difficult yet) . But, you can still have fun with this even 
 if youre not hardcore (as long as your humble enough to play at a lower difficulty.
  
  I have to admit, I didnt think I would like this game, based on my past experience. But, with 
 a little effort, it was easy to start to really like it And I do like it, a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Das_Spence
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome!!!
  The first thing I thought when I started playing it was that the handling was a bit too punishing (I'd 
 just finished NFSMW...) but it's rewarding in the long run.
  The graphics are great with real modelled areas from the real world. It was so graphically detailed 
 that my brother could recognise where he works on the Embankment Run level :D
  
  The selection of cars is very good too with a lot of variation and old school boy favourites such 
 as the McClaren F1 and Ferrari F40 whilst also including newer cars such as the Koenigseggs and 
 the Ferrari Enzo.
  The level of detail on the cars is awesome too, with the whole interior being modelled to the real 
 life cars themselves with it being hard to tell the difference between RL and in-game from the 
 cockpit view on an HD screen.
  
  But despite all my description of features and graphics the game has to have the gameplay as well, 
 doesn't it?
  Well it certainly delivers on that too with superbly realistic handling that really made this racer 
 stand out to me. Considering that I didn't like the GT series or previous Gotham's I really love 
 this one.
  
  Live features are also great with stuff like Gotham TV that allows you to watch other races going 
 on without even having to race (which is good for scoping out the good racers out there!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Buckle up 360 gamers, the third installment of the Project Gotham series is upon us. Sporting some 
 cool new features, impressive graphics, and an intricate online career mode, Project Gotham Racing 
 3 (PGR3) will definitely please fans of the series and please most racing gamers, too.
  
  Gameplay
  
  PGR3 allows players to partake in a career mode in both online and offline modes. 
 You also have the option to play quick races, but to really make progress in this game and score 
 some new rides, you should definitely play the career mode. During the offline career mode, the 
 player begins by purchasing a car. The great thing about PGR3 that made it intriguing from the 
 get go was that you didn't have to win a bunch of races to get yourself a fast, fun car. From the 
 outset you have enough money to choose between a dozen cars ranging from Ferraris to Fords to Nobles. 
 Technically, the overall number of vehicles in the game has been reduced from previous PGR games, 
 but the ability to jump right into a high end vehicle and move your way upwards to even faster 
 and cooler cars goes a long way in making up for the reduced number of vehicles. That said, there 
 are still about eighty vehicles to eventually choose from, so the variety is still significant. 
 Whatever car you purchase to start off with, you begin your career by entering a tournament. Tournaments 
 are usually broken into three different races, or events, usually street races against the AI. 
 Sometimes an individual event may actually be a challenge instead of a race against the CPU; for 
 example you might have to do a speed challenge, whereby you must get to a nearby checkpoint and 
 blaze through it going at least a certain speed like 125 MPH, for example. Upon completing each 
 race or challenge in a tournament, you unlock more cars available for purchase (including concept 
 cars) . Additionally you open up other tournaments at other locales. There are five different locales 
 in this game, including Tokyo, Las Vegas, New York, London, and the challenging Nurburgring. Each 
 of these locations not only looks different, but also brings its own unique challenges to the table. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  Before starting each challenge within a tournament, you can visit your garage (eventually garages 
 later in the game) and peruse your vehicles. This turns out to be a fine way for the 360 to flex 
 a little muscle; when you enter your garage, you enter a first person mode that allows you to walk 
 around your car and check out it's nicely rendered exterior. Depending on the car type, you can 
 also take a peek inside. It would have been great to have been able to look under the hood or actually 
 sit in the car and just looked around. Instead you can only walk around the outside of the car, 
 but it's still a cool feature. When you finally decide to quit gawking at the pretty cars in your 
 garage, you pick a vehicle to take to the next challenge. Selection is key to victory and I quickly 
 discovered that a car with excellent acceleration was the best suited for me for most purposes. 
 The CPU vehicles will change depending on what car you choose, usually pitting you against five 
 other cars a couple that are technically better than yours, a couple that might be the same model 
 as yours, and another that isn't as powerful as what you have. Each street race is usually three 
 or four laps and the goal is to finish at least third out of six. After you get comfortable with 
 the 360 controller and one of the preset control schemes, this isn't too difficult to do fairly 
 easily on Medium skill level. You can actually adjust the skill level between five different levels 
 (medium being right in the middle) before the start of any race. The most important aspect of racing 
 in PGR3 was handling sharp turns; the physics in the game are pretty lenient, but that still doesn't 
 mean you can power slide into any turn with ease, at least not at first. Each car is rated on Acceleration, 
 Grip, Braking, and Top Speed, and the difference in the various models comes into play turning 
 these turns. Getting the hang of sliding into a turn and accelerating out with of it is one of 
 the most challenging but absolutely necessary elements for success in PGR3. With success comes 
 victory in the tournaments and a lot of cash rewards that you can use to purchase other cars. You 
 don't have to worry about repairing your vehicles, as there are no real damage effects to the game. 
 If you collide into another racer or a wall, your car shows a bit of damage, visually, but the 
 performance of the car is unchanged (except for the adjustment in speed during the actual crash) . 
 In the next challenge, your car is restored again, with no input from the player or loss of money. 
 PGR3 also prevents any sort of modification to vehicles, too. Unlike a Gran Turismo 4 or Forza 
 Motorsport, there is no tweaking element to the game which might disappoint some gamers. It can 
 be said then that PGR3 continues the focus of its predecessors, allowing players to enjoy the coolest, 
 fastest cars on the planet with a favorable physics engine and little to no punishment for driving 
 aggressively or dangerously. In fact, nudging or undercutting opponents during sharp turns is often 
 the best way to get ahead of them. The courses are often curvy enough and the vehicles you are 
 racing against are powerful enough that you often don't get the chance to out run a car in a straightaway. 
 CPU vehicles will be as aggressive however, so you have to really watch yourself on crowded turns. 
 Getting pinned up against the wall in a turn or spun out by another car is usually enough to ensure 
 that you are not going to finish in the top three; depending, of course, on a lot of factors. Getting 
 caught back up to the pack and taking over other vehicles is most often a task that requires a 
 few laps and a few minutes -- things you rarely ever have in PGR3.
  
  
  
  
  
  The offline career mode took the better part of ten hours to complete. The challenge was satisfying, 
 but the level of variety and depth to the individual tournaments felt a bit too thin. To remedy 
 that, you can partake in the online career mode. In the online career mode, there is no set endpoint 
 for your career. Using a complex and largely functional matching service, PGR3 will pit you against 
 other players on Live with similar ping times and skill levels. Your performance is part of a large 
 ranking system that you can view anytime. The network code behind PGR3 proved to be solid, allowing 
 for smooth racing that could be mistaken for single player in terms of fluidity. I think that most 
 gamers will find the majority of their time tied up in online races. 
  
  PGR3 continues the Kudos System, whereby performing 360s or taking a sharp turn particularly well 
 will earn you Kudos points. The points are tallied as you race and are basically just a reward 
 or feedback system for performing difficult and not so difficult actions. I didn't find the Kudos 
 System to be really something I was trying to cater too, except for the challenges where you had 
 to earn a certain Kudos level in a certain amount of time; other than those times, I was far more 
 focused on the racing itself as I didn't really find any value in increasing my Kudos points. There 
 wasn't really any positive feedback or reasoning for trying to increase the Kudos count in my opinion; 
 still, it's a staple of the series and some racers might find it rewarding. Personally, I prefer 
 similar, but different, elements like the Bounty system found in Need For Speed Most Wanted.
  
  Changing gears a bit now to a new feature that PGR3 brings to the table, the cockpit view. 
 This is probably my favorite part of the game and something I really hope to see more of in future 
 racing games. We've all played game with a view from the drivers seat, behind the windshield and 
 all -- but never has it been this good. Players can use the right thumbstick to turn their head inside 
 the car. You can look at the passenger seat, for example, or down at the console or look up and 
 out of the windshield to marvel at a skyscraper. The interior detail on the vehicles is very impressive 
 and does in fact change to match whatever car you are driving. The best part about the cockpit 
 view is the ability to look at your rearview and side mirrors and at vehicles to your left and 
 right. It was very cool to be racing along in cockpit mode and then use the right thumbstick to 
 glance down and to the left at my driver side mirror. The mirrors update in real time, and it's 
 really quite thrilling to have to take your eyes off of the road for a moment to look back at your 
 mirror. With most vehicles, you have to consciously move the right thumbstick to look at your mirror; 
 Bizarre Creations did a great job in making sure that you can't see your side mirrors without forcing 
 you to look using your thumbstick. Some vehicles, like the Ariel Atom (which quickly became one 
 of my favorites in the game with its insane acceleration) is built in such a way that you can view 
 your single mirror without having to move your thumbstick. So, there are those special cases, but 
 for the most part you will actually need to move your thumbstick to use your side mirrors. Another 
 fine aspect of the cockpit mode is just how different things look and sound inside of the cockpit. 
 Each car looks different on the inside, a commendable attention to detail. The sounds of your engine 
 and those of nearby racers sounds really cool too, really believable. As you race and your car 
 changes speeds like going into a turn, you can actually see the light jolting action of your racer 
 inside the cockpit. This is a really fun mode that took a bit of getting used to at the outset 
 for me, but was well worth the initial learning curve. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  I mentioned the AI and courses briefly earlier, and I'd actually like to expound on them a bit 
 more now. Overall, I was pleased with the level of AI exhibited by the CPU racers. In terms of 
 wrecking into things or other cars, I really didn't see any of that at all. It's not that the AI 
 doesn't make mistakes though, but they are at least more believable and "understandable" mistakes 
 than running into walls and things. About the only mistakes I really saw out of the AI on Medium 
 skill were the generous gaps they would leave on some turns, giving you the ability to squeeze 
 in there, maybe bump them a bit, and get the edge. I'm not complaining mind you, as most of the 
 time you only really get one or two good chances to pass a car during the course of a race, so 
 I'll take any chance I can get. At the same time, I would definitely describe the AI as unforgiving; 
 if during the course of a race you ever get spun around or come to a dead stop due to a crash of 
 some kind, you can just about kiss your chances of winning goodbye, or even finishing in the top 
 three for that matter. The courses do not lend themselves to catching up, nor do the AI racers 
 make any kind of major mistake to allow you that chance to catch up. Most of the time, if you make 
 a mistake early on in a race, unless the circumstances are unusual, you are better off restarting 
 the race right away. Doing so unfortunately takes a good ten to twelve seconds as the game has 
 to do some reloading. 
  
  As far as the courses, there aren't that many in the game; just five locales and the ability to 
 go through a course in reverse mode. It's amazing how different a track can be in reverse mode, 
 but it would have been nice to see more variety. You can add some spice by racing in night or overcast 
 conditions, however. You can also create your own tracks in the in-game track editor. Something 
 else I couldn't help but notice about the courses is how static they are. If you take a look at 
 the environment around you as you race, you will notice how incredible static it is. I saw a plane 
 fly over in the London track I believe it was and you can see the race watchers wave their arms 
 some on the sidelines -- but the level of immersion and realism is sharply reduced by completely 
 immobile trees and dramatically static surroundings. The courses are also strictly linear, with 
 no possibly alternative routes. Granted, this isn't a free roaming kind of racer like Burnout or 
 Need For Speed, but I felt it worth mentioning.
  
  PGR3 also features something called GothamTV, which is something you can check out via the Main 
 Menu. GothamTV allows you to view screenshots you captured during races (cool feature for a console 
 game) and to also view high scores. 
  
  One very persistent and important element to racing titles is the HUD. PGR3s HUD comes across 
 as a little busy too me, and I feel like it takes too much screen real estate. Its also not very 
 good looking, for more picky gamers. This wouldnt be so much of a problem if you could make some 
 changes to the HUD but you can only turn off the mirrors and enable full zoom on the map. All of 
 the information is presented in large text in the four corners of the screen. The tachometer is 
 disagreeable; its situated in the bottom right hand of the screen, which is fine, but instead 
 of the familiar dial look, you get a horizontal gray bar that fills up red as your engine revs 
 up. Not only would a nice, standard, tachometer worked better (I like to use manual transmission) , 
 but it would have also taken up less screen real estate. In the upper right side of the screen 
 you can see your current Kudos points; I would have preferred the ability to disable it or only 
 show up when you are earning Kudos points. Something else I noticed that might irk you is how the 
 HUD can actually cover the side mirror or mirrors on some cars. Say you are driving and take a 
 turn, its a close race or you just want to be able to sneak a peek at your side mirror; usually 
 this isnt a problem, but on some cars, the HUD can actually overlap the mirror and render is useless. 
 So while the HUD by default is pretty bad, things are made worse by your inability to change things.
 
  
  I'd like to mention the actual menu system in the game. The menu system, the design thereof that 
 is, is really poor. This might sound a little picky, but the menu is really bad enough to make 
 it worth mentioning. The biggest problem with it is the layout; when choosing tournaments for example, 
 you use the right d-pad button. Inside of a tournament, when you're choosing a challenge, you actually 
 press up on the d-pad to view the available challenges within your current tournament. There is 
 no clear on screen indicator or any reason to think that pressing up is the thing to do. The menu 
 layout is just kind of jarring in that sort of way. It also felt very limiting, almost like it 
 was zoomed in too much. By that I mean that unless you were currently hovering over an option, 
 you couldn't very well read it or see what other choices were "nearby." Again, for example, in 
 the challenge selection screen. You can only see what challenge you currently have highlighted. 
 To see any others at all, it's strange enough you have to press Up, but it would have been better 
 to be able to see the nearby screen elements without having to use the controller -- like a flow 
 chart or tournament bracket design would have been much better. This also comes into play when 
 you are looking at your cars. In one menu you have the choice to sell a car; this function is limited 
 because you can only sell the car you currently have selected. To select a car, you have to back 
 out of that menu, choose to change your car, pick your car, then go back into the Sell menu -- being 
 able to just go to "Sell" and then pick your car from there, regardless of what car you currently 
 have selected 'in the background,' would have been better design.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Visually, like any 360 game, PGR3 is going to look better on HD. Even without HD, 
 PGR3 is a fine looking racer with nicely rendered cars that are animated nicely and behave impressively, 
 even if not amazingly, well under various light conditions. The color palette seems to be oddly 
 limited to about twelve colors, however. Most cars that you buy you can't even change the color 
 thereof (much less tinker with the engine, etc) . Since games have long since had a full color palette, 
 it was odd for a next gen title like this to be so limiting. Still, the cars, no matter what the 
 color or the make, looked good, inside and out. Not only are they just technically rendered well, 
 they are detailed to look like their counterparts in real life. The best case in point of interior 
 detail is what you see on the inside of the car when youre in cockpit mode. Speaking of cockpit 
 mode, the lighting is particularly nice when sitting behind the wheel. If you're in a night race, 
 for example, and your headlights are close enough to a wall or other object, youre treated to 
 a nice glare effect or reflection on your windshield. Likewise, during the course of a race you 
 might experience some cool dynamic lighting from the sun pelting your steering wheel as you duck 
 under a bridge or behind a building and then come cruising back out into the open. These things 
 are nice and if this were on the original Xbox, it'd be very special; but for a next gen with the 
 360's power, this game ultimately under whelms, graphically at least. To that end it would have 
 been especially nice to see more damage models and more diverse lighting effects. And I do think 
 that part of the static feeling and appearance of the courses has to do with a lack of attention 
 to graphical detail. It isn't uncommon to see the same textures and graphical nuggets, like trees, 
 be used repeatedly and heavily. 
  
  In playing this game, even online, I haven't experienced any bad clipping or other graphical snafus 
 like framerate drops, and that is certainly commendable. 
  
  Audio
  
  In any racing game, I always pay particular attention to the sounds of the engines. I'm pleased 
 to say the engine sounds in PGR3 are awesome. The variety of engine sounds for the different cars 
 and engine types is great and very noticeable. All of the different sounds you might expect to 
 hear from an engine, from stressed to smooth sounding gear changes, are here and sound really good. 
 If you're like me you turn down the soundtrack in any racing game a few notches just to enjoy the 
 roar of the engines. Speaking of the soundtrack, it isn't terribly inspiring but there are some 
 good electronica tracks in there. You can also, as with any 360 game, play your own music in the 
 game. One problem I had with PGR3 that I hadn't yet had with any other game was how the in game 
 music would not come back on after I turned off my music from the dashboard; I actually ended up 
 restarting the game to get the music to kick back in as nothing else I did had any effect at all. 
 Despite that oddity, the soundtrack in the game is pretty good. There are a variety of music genres 
 that you can choose between. I think the electronica tracks with a lot of thumping bass work best 
 for this game; the rock and alternative tracks are usually very underwhelming while Aphex Twin 
 and the few other electronic tracks seem to fit a whole lot better. One track in particular I have 
 to mention is the track that plays after you win a race or challenge; it sounds great and it's 
 really fitting. I'm not sure who it's by, but it is a great techno/electronic track with a very 
 repetitive but awesome bass.
  
  PGR3 was also the first game I have experienced on consoles that allowed you to adjust the sound 
 output depending on where your speakers are physically positioned in your room. This is done through 
 the Sound options; the Sound options looks like something out of a Creative Labs program, for those 
 of you who have seen it on a PC. What you have is basically a top down view of a generic room and 
 you use your controller to slide your speaker configuration around. So maybe your rear speakers, 
 if you have them, are at whatever angle behind you; using your controller and the 'map' on screen, 
 you can adjust things to match up to what you actually have for your particularly gaming environment.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  Depth
  
  PGR3 is a deep racing game. While not as tremendously deep as Turismo or Forza, PGR3 does offer 
 a ton of cars, around 80, and the ability to create your own tracks, where the sheer number of 
 tracks you can create is essentially infinite. The Kudos system, as well as the 360 Achievements 
 you can unlock, add some of depth, too. The single player career is nice, but seems fairly short 
 once it's done and you don't really have much reason to go back again and play because you earn 
 enough money throughout your career the first time to really get any car you want, even if it means 
 selling some along the way. The real depth to this game is no secret, its Live play. As with any 
 Live game, finding serious, decent players is always a challenge. As this game gets more popularity 
 I would expect the more serious players to stick around and hopefully the number of jerks will 
 dissipate into another game. There is, fortunately, the option for System Link play, and split 
 screen horizontal action too. In the end, you should decide how you plan on playing this title -- just 
 single or local play or on Live -- and decide for yourself if it will be deep enough for you.
  
  Fun Factor
  
  Despite its short offline career mode and other aforementioned concerns, 
 PGR3 is still a very enjoyable racing game. I personally had a thirty to sixty minute learning 
 curve in getting used to the feel of the game and the controls, but it was still fun and obviously 
 a lot more fun after I got over those hurdles. For the best enjoyment, I fully recommend going 
 with a manual transmission and doing the cockpit view; dont forget to lay down some of your favorite 
 tracks and crank up the engine effects, too. The AI will frustrate at times, as it seems one mistake 
 can cost you an entire race, but give some time and experience you get to learn the ins and outs 
 of your car on the different courses and you start to look to create more opportunities for yourself 
 and worry less about screwing up. For example, in my first few hours of play in this game, I really 
 had to make an effort to do a better job in sliding through sharp turns. Doing so took away some 
 of my ability to make some moves on the leaders, and so I rarely finished first. Now, with some 
 experience behind me, those turns are now taken as opportunities to turn the tide of the race in 
 my favor.
  
  As with the depth of this game, you are likely to have the most fun playing multiplayer. There 
 isnt a terrible lot to the single player mode after playing through the career and trying out 
 your favorite cars, so playing split screen, via System Link, or on Live, are your only other alternatives 
 to increase the replay value and fun factor of this title. Well, except for the track editor, which 
 will be a boon to some players, and forgettable to others. 
  
  Overall Comment
  
  While being a fine racing title and probably being the best PGR game in the series, PGR3 left me 
 feeling a little disappointed. PGR3 just doesnt feel like a next gen game. It certainly looks 
 like one on an HDTV, and the cockpit view is really cool, although you dont need 360 hardware 
 to do that. Were this on the original Xbox, this would have been a remarkable game. As it stands, 
 PGR3 is a game that seems to be just barely above original Xbox specs, and something I can barely 
 see calling next gen. Despite that, its still a fine racing game. That said, if you enjoy the 
 PGR series, give this one a serious look, it wont disappoint you. Furthermore, if you are a 360 
 owner looking for a great racing game, this should be at the top of your list to rent or check 
 out in some way. Right now the only other options are Ridge Racer 6 and Need For Speed Most Wanted 
 anyway, two games that are significantly different than PGR3. In the end, consider what you want 
 in a 360 racer right now and weigh these options. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a great game, with the good alternative-rock soundtrack, the large array 
 of cars both exotic and junkers, the BEAUTIFUL graphics, and the xbox live support, this game should 
 be in your 360 for a looong time. But thats not to say that its without it's fualts, the single 
 player experience i found to be a bit too short, and the locations all just feel the same in my 
 opinion, and the title doesn't seem to try to do anything too revolutionary, but its still on the 
 list of must-have 360 titles, and easily beats the pants off of its rivals ( nfs most wanted and 
 ridge racer 6) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermario2653
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  This game has great graphics and even when your going 200mph the screen never gets choppy or slows 
 down. When talking about graphics for the xbox 360 I take it you already are playing on a HDTV 
 supporting 720p. The gameplay is probably as good as its going to get for a racing game. The soundtracks 
 were weak but since you can load your own playlists this is not really a problem. My only other 
 dislike was the car lineup. There are some really strange cars that I refuse to drive on this game. 
 The game has a crap load of gamer points to score and really challenges you. If you are looking 
 for a racing game for your 360 I would buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gun-runner
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big racing game fan, but I have to make an exception here. This game is crazy fun, everything 
 about it is just plain old F-U-N! I definately reccommend this. The sound track, graphics and gameplay 
 are fraking sweet!! Another great feature on this that you will spend countless hours on if you 
 have it is multi-player!! just can't get enough of this. It is most definately worth your money 
 to go and buy this game, go ahead do it now. Have fun, just make sure you take a break every 6 
 hours to give your fingers a break. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budlongmv
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham 3 has better visuals that the others in the series, but the fun factor isn't quite 
 there. There doesn't seem to be enough cars to keep you going. Also there is only a handful of 
 cars that you actually want to race with. Another problem is the cities that you drive in. Sure 
 the Las Vegas tracks are cool because it's Las Vegas, but it gets boring after awhile. All the 
 cities get boring after awhile. The cities in PGR 2 were far more interesting and a lot more fun. 
 In fact, all of the games in this series, including Metropolis Street Racing on Dreamcast had more 
 interesting and enjoyable tracks to race on. Graphically this is PGR 2.5. It's a shame that we 
 will have to wait 2-3 years for a true Next Gen PGR, since it takes so long to develop next gen 
 games. It seems like the game was rushed for launch, or else there would be more cars and more 
 enjoyable cities to drive in. It still might be the best racing game on 360, but not a leap forward 
 like we all would like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgillmaine01
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 6, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  PGR brings the 1st "real" racing game to the 360. With over 80 cars and many tracks to race on. 
 It covers every need you'll need in a racing game.
  
  Being it's a Racing game. The game play really hasn't changed that much. You racing with style 
 to and get kudos for buy other cars. The physics are on point. Every car feels different when driving. 
 You will learn how to race with this game or you will always loose. The computer puts up a good 
 fight when on good difficulties. And there are many modes to play. You have cone racing, where 
 you just get points for collecting cones and tricks on the track. Draft mode. Street racing one 
 on one. Then you can take you career online and play other. Nice!
  
  The sounds are all there with a great sound track to listen while racing. The cars all have there 
 own sound and the bass from them are nice. 
  
  With Xbox live you can play ranked and unranked games or compete your career online. The racing 
 system is the same when getting kudos for style and tricks. So which ever mode you play. You will 
 get your moneys worth.
  
  I think PRG is a great game on 360 and with downloads coming soon this game will be around a long 
 time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: southvike22
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is pretty much everything ive been looking for in a racing game, but never even knew i needed 
 until i strapped in to this great interier that is this game.
  It combines the edge of your seat rush that are arcade games with the depth and distinction of 
 more sophisticated driving sims.
  The balance between the two gameplay styles is nearly perfect.
  Unlike PGR2, which upped the 
 ante in terms of contribution to online intergration,
  PGR3's great conribution to the genre is the incredible in-car view that establishes itself in 
 a class of its own really this has to be played to be believed, it establishes a great sense of 
 speed and also wieght. This is not found in even the most complex racing sims.
  My only cryptonyte is kudos ??? Why the heck there here still is behond me becasue the only way 
 to get new cars is to perform and place in races it has nothing to do with kudos, so why on earth 
 are they still here ?????? Thats behond me but a very small grudge i might add to anotherwise great 
 game and your safest bet when picking a 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is not to be missed and neither is the Xbox 360. Designed by the same team that designs 
 Alienware PCs, this console is the most beautiful, most quiet piece of hardware on the market. 
 Microsoft clearly spared no expense and wanted to stay in the game and this console and its launch 
 games are evidence of this. On to the game. Project Gotham Racing 3 is amazing simply put. A testament 
 to what the next generation of games by game developers will bring us. The incar camera view is 
 soemthing I wanted since Forza and the level of detail and draw distance is amazing. This game 
 is proof that games are starting to mirror reality and that creators are no longer held back by 
 technology but rather by their imagination. If you bought and Xbox 360 and didnt somehow manage 
 to buy this game, then you made a mistake. this racer belongs in everyones library and is not to 
 be missed. It is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dethshoot
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 definitely shows off what the 360 is capable of. It's hard to tell whether its an arcade racer 
 or a sim because its a mix of both. Oh well. Great gameplay thats easy to get used to. The sounds 
 are amazing and for a racing game... the enviroments.... they are very realistic. I recommend that 
 when you buy the game play any Las Vegas track at night. It's online multiplayer is really addictive 
 aswell. All the different game types and the playermade games are just too fun.
  
 
  Singleplayer is cool and one of the only games that have hard achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I've never been into racing simulator games like Gran Turismo and Forza, but arcade racers are 
 driving in my alley. Project Gotham Racing 3 is a mixture of these two. Do I like it? Oh yes!
 
  
  The Xbox360 has shown of some fantastic graphics in games like Perfect Dark Zero, Kameo: Elements 
 of Power, and Call of Duty 2. But I must say that PGR3 is the prettiest game in the pile. I mean, 
 the cars look even better than in real life! They're allways clean and shining! The environments 
 also look great, especially the cities. The whole audience is built up by 3-D people! Which is 
 so much cooler than the regular flat guys. If there's one bad thing about the graphics, it's the 
 trees. They don't look as good as the rest of the game.
  
  PGR3 sounds like the real thing. The sound effects are awesome. The sounds from your car changes 
 when switching between the five available camera angles, and even changes when looking around. 
 To have good music is very important for a racing game. PGR3 features many very cool songs, and 
 also classical music which fitts perfectly while driving the huge racing tracks in Nurburgring. 
 There's a huge number of songs for you to switch between, and they're all gathered into groups 
 by genre, which makes it easier to avoid all that rap music!
  
  As said before, PGR3 is not a pure racing simulator nor a pure arcade racer, it's something in 
 between. You can't upgrade your car at all, but the racing is very serious, though not as realistic 
 as in Gran Turismo 4. You earn cach by completing challenges and championships, and you buy new 
 cars that'll be available from your own beautiful garage. The game features around 80 cars, and 
 this number may seem small at first, but every car is top notch. You won't be driving family cars, 
 nor huge wagons. You'll be driving Ferrari, Lamburgini, Austin Martin, RUF and Koenigsegg. The 
 fastest cars in the world are at your disposal. There are many tracks for you to drive on, but 
 they are only spread across 5 countries, so you get pretty used to the environments after a while. 
 But the countries are just like the cars, the finest in the world. You drive through New York, 
 London, Las Vegas, Tokyo and Nurgurgring. You can also create your own tracks in Project Gotham 
 Racing 3, which is great. The single player is pretty short, but you'll replay the challenges on 
 higher difficulties just to earn more money, and thereby buying new cars. The multiplayer in PGR3 
 is very good, both online and offline. You have several modes for you to compete in, and you can 
 even share your self made tracks online. A new addition to the series is the Gotham TV, which is 
 basicly the adility to watch the best racers in the world drive! It's very cool that the drivers 
 on Gotham TV gets a note telling them they're on the air! One thing that's allways been in the 
 PGR series is the Kudos, and it's still appearant. This is a counter that counts up points when 
 you're doing stylish things like drifting and driving perfect laps. These points tell your rank, 
 the more points you've earned in total, the higher your rank is. PGR3 also features the best cockpit 
 view ever. All the mirrors are working, and the interior of all the cars are accurate. I allways 
 drive in cockpit view, cause it's the best camera view I've ever seen in a racing game! PGR3 is 
 an awesome racing game, and everyone that owns a Xbox 360 should run out and buy it, cause it's 
 just so much fun. 
  
  +
  The graphics are stunning, and especially the car models are breathtaking. The music is top notch 
 featuring everything from rap to classical music. The sound effects are amazing. All the best cars 
 are here! The multiplayer is great.
  
  -
  Short single-player. The AI is a bit aggresive at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camaro67fan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Well I am a huge racing fan, and I went into this game after having read all of the reviews on 
 the net with very high expectations. Well the verdict is that this game surpassed them all. I love 
 it!!! It has to be the best racing game to date. The racing games to come will have very big shoes 
 to fill. On the other hand if this is just a taste of what the Xbox 360 can do, I cant wait for 
 the sequel. I love the feel of the game. The car acts like a real car would going into turns. I 
 also love the fact how every car drives differently so there is always a challenge with a new car 
 you buy. I hope they come out with some great down-loadable content for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  To start off this review I must admit that I disliked PGR2 for alot of reasons, but mostly due 
 to the fact that I could never get a high-end car to play online with and I was always stuck with 
 a mini-cooper in an online match-up. This time around PGR3 is just simply amazing in every-way 
 you might think of, the Gamespot review says its more like "PGR2.5" but infact I don't see any 
 traces of the hiddious PGR2 anywhere.
  
  First off, the graphics are just simply amazing in every way. I play on an HDTV on 1080i and its 
 very realistic, the good thing is for all you regular TV people out there, I didn't see that much 
 of a difference between regular and HD on this game. The gameplay is very fun also, its a nice 
 blend between sim and arcade like it should be, zooming around a corrner power-siding at 120 is 
 the best feeling in the world. The sound is also very good, all the cars sound exactly as they 
 would in real life, with this kind of detail, you can't go wrong.
  
  The online is also a step up from PGR2 with more features and the abillity to choose any car you 
 want without having to buy it in Single Player mode. This makes it a race of skill vs. how far 
 you got into the single player, which in my mind, is just great. Don't get me wrong, I am almost 
 done with the single player myself, its VERY good, but I just don't like wating around to get a 
 car. 
  
  Overall, if you are on the fence about getting PGR3 or NFS: MW, then wait no ferther, I also was 
 thinking about NFS but once I played both games, its clear that NFS: MW doesn't even come close 
 in graphics, sound and fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobison
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is a great game. The graphics are amazing, and so is the audio. The addition of a cockpit 
 view is nice and it makes the game more realistic, espiecially since you can set the xbox live 
 races to cockpit view only for a more realistic race. Also, the engines sounds are much better 
 inside the car. I think that PGR2 engine sounds are still better and more realistic. The gameplay 
 on PGR3 is good but there is no timer so you have no idea how fast you went aroung the Nurburgring. 
 There's also no weather which made xbox live races more fun in PGR2. You get pretty much all the 
 cars in the game when you start out which makes xbox live not as good. The xbox live in PGR3 is 
 not nearly as good as PGR2's, because you can't quit back to lobby when someone joins, there's 
 no times after the race is done, everyone uses the F50 GT because you can't set it to a certain 
 class, there is no search options when looking for an optimatch game etc... I like PGR3 alot, but 
 I still think PGR2 is alot more fun. It's hard to explain why PGR2 is more fun than PGR3 because 
 PGR3 is a really good game, but it just is. It could be because when I got xbox live the first 
 game game I played and pretty much the only game I played was PGR2. And not only was PGR2 a great 
 game for xbox live, the single player was alot of fun also. I rented PGR2 a little after it came 
 out and spent 6 hours in the showroom testing out cars. I had so much fun playing PGR2 online and 
 offline, and i think it will always be my favorite game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragSeeker
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I played this as my first title for the XBOX 360 and as we all did, i expected mindblowing graphics 
 and awsome SFX....... well...... AND I DOES!. wow! The graphics are absolutely supreme and the 
 engine noise's are top notch. the gameplay is long and can stretch you as far as you want to go 
 with the AI Difficulty levels. I have also notice how progressive these AI cars are for example:
 
  Novice:- Cars Break alot before corners, maybe overbreak to give you an advantage.
  Hard:- Cars start to develop a more comfortable corner routine.
  Extreme:- Cars corner perfectly 
 to high standard whilst trying there best to disrupt you!.
  This game offers one of the best soundtracks found in a PGR game so far with a wide variety of 
 music genre's ranging from Classical to Heavy metal to please the gameplayers and to the racing 
 scene.
  I think that the best features of this game are the camera angles. Now this isnt a topic which 
 is regularly looked upon in a racing game but the "In-Car view" is breathtaking each component 
 of these cars, from the Speedometer to the radio work fully.
  PGR3 has certainly improved on its XBOX predecessor PGR2 and the main point which shows this is 
 the Damage to the cars, which has certainly and noticeably changed to the better. And the choice 
 of licensing the Two main super cars producer Ferrari and Porshe was an excellent. Finally i would 
 like to point out the little details the game producers put into this game such as: if you pick 
 a car with the engine in the back and a grill its quite easy to see the motor inside as they designed 
 fully adapted AI modals for each of the cars featured in the game.
  Geometry Wars Evolved come along with this game as a 4 minute demo. this is found the Car garage 
 as a mini game but a full version is downloadable via. the XBOX live marketplace its
  
  All of Bizzarre's hard work has paid off, well.... thats my opinion.
  
  My Score: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXg4m3rXx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Great game online and good game off fun addicting good graphics good sound everything good game......
 
  good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game 
 good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good game good 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brayansteven4
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  This is perhaps what I suppose to be the first game that acually takes advantage of a first person 
 real-time simulation veiw. I know its not good to
  focus on graphics alone, though that happens to be this games "strong points", but not only does 
 it exagerate extreme frame rates (the bridge scene) , it virtually implements real reflections. 
 I`m not sure if it does so precisely without any bugs/defects however I`m looking forward to that.
 
  
  Just imagine driving and some AI or Online Opponent rocks his little bright light behind you!!! 
 You`ll be blinded!
  
  Another thing in wich I meant by real-time simulation veiw is how we are able to look to either 
 side of us. Seen in one of the gameplay footages you can acually look to your right side! (skeptical 
 about left, but most likely.)
  
  Unlike what GT4 had this first person view shows more than just a steering wheel... you acually 
 notice your cockpit and nav. system + side view mirrors.
  
  It sadly fails to get a 10 becuase i havent played it yet and on top of that.... Gamespot doesnt 
 seem to be to excited about it, considering they got hands-on. I suppose they are afriad to give 
 9-10`s becuase of regression in
  introductory games.
  Recommend this review? Yes | No
  Track Author
  Report Abuse
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3
  Summary | Reviews | News & Previews 
 | Images | Videos | Downloads | Hints & Cheats | Related Games | Forum | Check Prices
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: surid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  i really cant describe this game in words ! all i have to say is that this is the best looking 
 game that ive ever played..... the gameplay is solid , the AI is really smart and the graphix ? 
 theyre jaw dropping.... clearly this is the best game that came with the 360 launch.... unlike 
 some disappointing games on the xbox 360 like nhl 2k6 and tony hawks american wasteland (which 
 were a port from the original xbox) .... this game truly shows you the xbox 360's power and wuts 
 ahead for the next gen era... the online gameplay is great and i think gotham tv is a really great 
 idea..... my final words on this is that i showed a race replay to someone who wasent intrested 
 in gaming and he thought that couldnt possibly be a video game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gators_horns
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  By far this is the best installment of the PGR line and it shows the possibilities of the next-gen 
 console. Like most games on the Xbox 360 if you really want to enjoy it you will need to play it 
 in HD. Some of the screen shots I've seen around the web are better than the actual graphics in 
 the game, but they are still a big step forward and only scratch the surface of what could be with 
 the X360. The controls are easy enough and the game play is fluent and seamless. I have yet to 
 play on-line, but just around the house it has kept me and the guys busy. 
  The career mode has variable game settings so even a novice racer can get behind the wheel and 
 enjoy this high flying ride through some of the world's best cities! I would recommend to anyone 
 who is a fan of racing games as it will give you something to do until Burnout Revenge hits the 
 X360 and gives us something to truly compare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamrig2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game has really surprised me. At first I had doughts to how it would look on my standered 
 tv and would the cars feel to samey. Well I can tell you now those thoughts have been blown out 
 the window. The graphics are amazing the sound is amazing and the cars are amazing. Each car feals 
 different if not alot different to each other and each handle in a different way toeach other. 
 The audio is amazing with every car sounding realistic and the soundtrack featuring every kind 
 of genre in. The graphics are mindblowing and you know you are playing a next gen game. I heavly 
 recomed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkangelsa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  ok im not going to go into detail with this game, as is has very little flaws.
  the cars AMAZING
  the online play MIND BLOWING
  
  is it the best racing game of all time 
 NO
  
  will you speand endless hours with this and its just sum of the best fun you will have in a car 
 that most of us will never own.
  
  buy this game if it the last thing you do!!!!!!!!
  
  i can not stress this enough you must own this not review on the earth will give you the undersanding 
 on how much fun this is.
  
  sum of the car you have never even herd of are in this game as sum were concepts were only about 
 2 were made.
  
  get this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmcnab
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is easily the best racing game I've ever played - period! I've been a lukewarm 
 fan of racing games until this game came along. Until PGR 3, my favorite racing game was the Need 
 For Speed franchise. However, I hated NFS Underground. There was just too much stuff that interfered 
 with actually getting to race for my liking. Perhaps it shows my age, but I wasn't all that interested 
 in tricking out my car. To me, it felt like NFS lost a great deal in the transition from Hot Pursuit 
 to Underground. I enjoyed Hot Pursuit but one of my biggest gripes was the sheer amount of time 
 it took before I could purchase/unlock the game's pinnacle vehicle: the McClaren F1. By the time 
 I got to that point, all the fun had been sucked out of the game and replaced with the single-minded 
 purpose of just "racking up points" in order to unlock that car. Once achieved, I felt less than 
 enthusiastic about continuing to play the game. Of course, my son came along and wiped all the 
 saved data off the memory chip for the Gamecube (the console we played on prior to the Xbox 360) 
 and after that, I've not played the game since.
  When considering whether or not to purchase the Xbox 360, I saw the exotic car porn that was the 
 trailer for the PGR 3 game on a 360 kiosk. Like everyone who saw the trailer, I was mesmerized 
 by the sheer graphic rendering of the vehicles. It was very impressive! I wondered if, like so 
 many movies, the best of what I'd seen was simply that from the trailer. How many times have you 
 been to a movie only to discover that the best parts of the movie were the parts cut and used for 
 the trailer? Not so with this game. In fact, you can't really begin to access the best features 
 of PGR 3 until you buy the game.
  Unlike every other racing game I've ever played, you start the game with an impressive array of 
 cars available. These cars are ones you would normally have to work up to in other racing games. 
 You start out with amazing cars. PGR 3 got this part right! You get to hit the ground running in 
 this game! 
  After you select your first car and put it in your garage, you can start a number of races almost 
 immediately. You can begin your solo career, go online or even system link with other 360 consoles. 
 This is a very welcome feature to me. I don't like to have to go through a bunch of screens and 
 jump through a bunch of hoops just to race. Sometimes I just want to pop the game in and burn rubber. 
 PGR 3 lets you do just that, if you so desire. Of course, you can take as much time as you like 
 before you begin a race.
  One really great feature to this game is the availability to "test drive" any car. On other games, 
 you may be able to see a ghost image of a car that will be available once you achieve a set number 
 of points, but you can never really see any details about those cars. Not so on PGR 3. You can 
 see every car that the game has to offer with the exception of concept cars that only become available 
 after a set number of kudos points have been awarded. Sure you may start with 85,000 credits, but 
 you can look at the Ferrari F50 GT and even test drive it! Yep, that's right! You can test drive 
 any car on the test track - even if you don't have nearly enough points to buy it! It can let you 
 know what you might want to work your way up towards. Nice feature! Smart design!
  When you play the game online, you have instant access to all the cars right then and there. Sure 
 you may only have an NSX in your solo career, but race online and you can jump behind the wheel 
 of a McClaren! That's a sweet touch! The online feature is fun beyond belief, too. It is fun to 
 race against total strangers and there is a staggering number of types of races (street race, capture 
 the track, elimination, team, etc.) to choose from. There are also an equally impressive number 
 of race venues to choose from (New York, Las Vegas, Japan, etc.) . The person who creates the race 
 can also control certain aspects of that race for participants who log on. You can set the conditions 
 to Day, Night, Overcast, force the racers to have the "in car" view, control the number of AI racers, 
 etc. 
  One aspect that blew me away and that also reminded me of the kiosk trailer was the replay feature 
 of this game. Once you complete a race, you have the option to continue on to the next race or 
 to watch a replay of the race you just completed. If you're not in a hurry, watch the replay. Trust 
 me on this. It is absolutely unbelievable! First of all, you can save the replay to watch again 
 anytime you wish. This in and of itself is a really cool feature. If you have an unreal race and 
 you want to show off, you can save the race and watch it ad nauseum! During that replay, you can 
 also take a picture. This is just too cool! You can forward, reverse, pause or restart the replay, 
 but once it is playing you can toggle to switch the camera angle and freeze the frame. From there, 
 if you select to take a picture, you can literally zoom your camera in on the scene from every 
 angle imaginable. The precise detail is jaw-dropping. It really is! You can do all kinds of things 
 with this picture, too. The game provides you with several Photoshop-esque special effects. For 
 instance, you can adjust the aperture of your picture and thereby produce blur to give the effect 
 of high speed movement. You can change the color and take the picture anywhere from black and white 
 to over-the-top vibrant. You can adjust the focus, the lighting, the brightness, the contrast, 
 etc. Once you get the angle, the effect and the subject framed as you like it, you can take the 
 picture and save it. Again, like the race replay, you can view it at any time.
  The best feature of PGR 3 is the amount of control the game gives you right from the start. The 
 graphics are amazing and, arguably, the best graphics during the game are had when racing from 
 the in car view. There are several camera views you can choose from. Two from behind the car, one 
 from inside the car, and two from the perspective of a camera that would be mounted on the front 
 bumper of the car. I might have missed one or two, but you get the point. I prefer the in car view 
 and I sometimes toggle to the behind the car view when I have to thread the needle between cones 
 or archways. I wasn't the biggest fan of racing games because of all the roadblocks to enjoying 
 the game that seemed to be part of the genre. PRG 3 has completely redefined this genre of game 
 for me and has far exceeded my wildest expectations for what I thought this game would be. It is 
 so much better than I had even hoped for!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoDVeteranx5
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  in PGR3 your $400 is worth it this game is the best all around game i have ever played. there is 
 nothing wrong with this game the graphics are fine the gameplay doesn't get repetive. when i first 
 got my xbox i got PGR and i loved it i was one of the best players you could find. any way this 
 game doesn't dissapoint me and im a hard core fan of the setries. the style of gameplay is good 
 but not lame the graphics are amazing. and the tracks are smart and make you think. all around 
 i give it a good review if you can only get one game pick it up and you wont be duissappointed
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is game that every racing fan and even just a fan of videogames should have in their collection. 
 For everybody with an xbox 360 this should be one of your first games to buy. 
  First I will start with the easiest thing to list, the good. Well first off i am not a huge race 
 game fan but this game had me hooked from the begining. If you are new to the PGR series you will 
 have to put many hours in this game to get the hang of it but once you start playing it it will 
 become natural. The difficulty comes from PGR3's very realistic racing action. You can't exspect 
 to be able to hit a sharp turn at 175 mph and not hit a rail. This is what will flusterate starting 
 players. You must learn to control your speed before you can truly enjoy the game. Whenever your 
 not going pedal to the metal you might want to take a look around the enviroments. It is amazing! 
 You will go by real landmarks and be able to recognize certain places. The level of detail is amazing. 
 This is shown off to the fullest in the incar view point. The interiors of the cars are very detailed. 
 I am honestly tired of people saying that PGR3 has bad graphics. Take a look around the garage! 
 It is amazing! Also the online experience is perfect and very fun.
  Now for the very few bad things. I think they need a few more online game types. I think they need 
 some better music. They actually have classical music on this game! Also they need to make the 
 route creator a little bit more customizable. The single biggest thing is the lack of good damage 
 modeling. If you hit a wall at 200 mph the worst you can have is a cracked windshield. I think 
 they should make it so your car can get totaled and damaged.
  As you can probably tell by this review i love this game. It is the single best racing game i have 
 ever played and also one of the best videogames i have ever played. This is definently a keeper. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goatman48
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 1 was a success, because it had visuals never before seen in a racing game. 
 Project Gotham 2 made those visuals all the more extrodenary, and added many more cars, online 
 play and a whole lot of tracks. Project Gotham 3 takes as many steps backward as it does forward, 
 leaving it a pretty plane, simple racer.
  
  First, the good. The game has the best graphic ever seen in a racing game. There is a really cool 
 new interior view, that should probably be seen by anyone interested in cars. The cars sound amazing, 
 and look detailed, and real, and reflections are spectacular, especially in the 'in car' view. 
 The game just feels fast, with the motion blur, and the way the cars handle. The ability to customize 
 your race right down to the track and individual apponents is handy. Gotham TV is pretty cool. 
 Tracks look very detailed, and are extremely faithful to the real locations. Online play is pretty 
 hot. 
  
  However, it's not all hot. Most of what made the other PGRs really cool was the ability to take 
 everyday cars, like Volvo SUV's, and crush them into a porche as 90 Mph. In PGR3, there are only 
 exotics. No everyday cars to speak of, and there are actually less of them than in PGR2. The graphics 
 are hot, but so where PGR2s, so this game is really not that big of a step forward. The game feels 
 fast, and real, but the damage model is really too basic. You cant have that 'reality' feeling 
 if you can run your ferrari into a wall at 200mph and come out with a couple of scratches and only 
 lose 4 seconds to the other racers. Project Gotham 2 had a better damage model. The game puts you 
 against other racers on a track. That's it. Everything is closed in, and extremely linear. There's 
 no option to take your car offroad for a shortcut, or a jump. This makes the first race feel exactally 
 like the last race, with the exception of the differences in car speeds. 
  
  When it all comes down to it, It's not a bad game. But we've seen most of what this game does in 
 other games before it. There are some cool features here that are probably worth checking out. 
 Some racing fans might appreciate it, but it feels too simulation for arcade lovers, and to arcade 
 for simultion lovers. There's a reason to rent this. It doesnt really do anything wrong, it just 
 doenst do enough right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinNick
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  This is an awesome game with some very good gameplay mechanics. Unlike Need for Speed this is not 
 as repetitive. If you want to get an xbox 360 racing game, I suggest PGR 3. I have played the other 
 racing games on xbox 360 and I will admit they are good, but they just don't have the replayability 
 that PGR 3 does. I absolutely think that this is the racing game of the year. It certainly has 
 been awhile since I played a racing game like PGR 3 of this calibur. That should wrap up this review, 
 but make sure if you have an xbox 360 to check this game out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bellsmye1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  Ignore all of the negative reviews people have made. This is currently the strongest game in the 
 360 lineup and judging by the high quality games that are in that lineup, that is saying something. 
 The only niggle I have is that the slower cars have been ommited from this installment, but that 
 is just me being picky. From the moment you start this game up you will be mesmerised. From the 
 amazing lighting and the flawless car models youll be blown away. The amount of little touches 
 in this game is stunning, my personal favourite being the dirt on the windows in the stunning incar 
 veiw. Ah, the incar view... has to be seen in motion to be believed. From the way it judders, to 
 the fact that you can look at the magnificent sceney around you.... its breathtaking. But the killer 
 app for this game is live. The online experience is lag free and so fun youll spend hours on it. 
 Please, if you buy a 360 make this your first purchase. Experience this gem now. Bizzare Creations 
 has officially proven it has one of the best development teams in the world today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoCracer_BE
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  It is a very good game, also for the gamers that don't like very much race games...
  
  But, the gamers who played the others PGR's before knows that there is not very much changed...
 
  the big changes are: Graphics, gameplay, sound, online,...
  But there are changes :)
  like Gotham TV: watch your pictures you made, watch your reviews, and the really nice thing, follow 
 the best players on xbox live!
  
  Also on a normal tv you have nice graphics!
  This game gives you a lot of fun in next-generation gaming!
  Experience the power of Xbox 360!
 
  This is a game why you buy 360!
  
  Buy it, if you are not sure !
  
  regards, NeoCracer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erickzelaya
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever been in a car going 120 MPH , the majority of us havent , but PGR3 mimics that feeling 
 amazingly well , when switched to thedash viewthe entire game is put into another level of 
 realism , when your speeding down the track at night you can see the reflection of the cars headlights 
 behind you , the reflection of the building or trees all afect your windshield , all aspects of 
 the enviroment contribute to the lighting affects. In terms of the Physics , the cars move real 
 and all have their own special flaws , but this is nothing new. The career mode can get repetative 
 but all of the awards you gain from your progress gives a sence of acomplishment , along with all 
 of the secret cars to unlock . True that their are only 80 cars in the entire game they are the 
 best 80 cars in the world , everything from Ferraris to Aston Martins , all of your dream cars 
 right their in front of you. The game also includes a few extras such as being able to walk around 
 in your gararges , allowing you to view all of your cars upclose and with amazing detail , its 
 just beautiful , along with the cars the garages are a work of art themselves , their are anough 
 garages for you to buy and store all 80 of the cars that the game offers you .The games multiplayer 
 options are prety straight forward , their are plenty of game modes such as Street Race , Capture 
 the Track , Eliminator etc. The game dose have its Flaws though , The weather displayed through 
 out the game is prety boring , its either day , night or cloudy , i would of loved to see some 
 rain with some thunder to create some beatiful lighting. Their is no customization of your cars 
 , one of the latest racing games Project Gotham Racing allows you to buy parts , paint jobs , decals 
 ETC , i would of liked to see some of thoses aspects in PGR3. In the end it still comes of as a 
 great game , all of the subtle details like all of the interiors and even having the on onlookers 
 behind the racing walls react to you when you slam into the wall , that is what realy makes PGR3 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementskate14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Project Gotham Racing 3 I wasnt blown away but I could tell that all of the 
 fans and buildings were a lot better looking at least during the day. Everything in project Gotham 
 Racing 3 is a great leap foward from Project Gotham 2. Then when I played a race during the nighttime 
 I was sort of shocked buy how everything looks like compaired to day and the level of detail wasnt 
 as great. Overall I enjoy Pgr3 more than any other racing game out but Pgr3 online is what makes 
 the game so immersive and such a blast to play. This a great game that is a must for those 360 
 owners that want to show off the power of the 360 and own a game that they will play for years 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aeronautical
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Graphics and Sound
  
  Everything in PGR 3 ushers in the next generation. From the lighting effects, spectators, and the 
 cars, anyone will be proud to own this game for their little new white toy. The camera angles show 
 off the detail of the cars and the environment around you, and no angle takes away the thrilling 
 sense of speed. Most of the maps are dynamic and are very nice to look at, but at some moments 
 you can notice the city scapes in the background are nothing more than a posted image to give depth. 
 I'm sorry to say this, but that is the last-gen and the lazy way to make maps, but nothing that 
 hurts the graphics overall.
  The sound in PGR 3 is what really sticks this game out from many other racing games. Every sound 
 to an engine is unique to a cartain car. Not only from pushing it to 8000 rpm, but when changing 
 gears and breaking. Also, when you slide or break hard enough to loose traction (drafting) , the 
 tire's sound react to real world physics. If the weather is dry, the tires bend and slip, if the 
 road is wet, there is less howling from the tires.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The physics aren't in a arcade style, just a warning to fans of arcade racers, including myself. 
 It is more of a simulation game, and it can be hard to control your car, this is because of the 
 near-to-perfect physics engine. You can decide whether that's bad or good. But even fans of arcade 
 racers will be able to play and have fun with PGR 3.
  
  Overall
  
  I was disappointed a bit. The PGR series has always reality cars, something unique to it in a long 
 line up of highly-fueled racing sims. But PGR 3 is still impressive, and should be tried out to 
 anybody that likes to drive fast, and drive hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardaukar87
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:29 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is the best of all PGR and when you play it for the first time you understand that you finally 
 are in the new generation of gaming! The gameplay is wonderfull, cars and tracks are unbelieveble 
 detailed!! Another perfect feature is the garage: you can walk around your favourite dream cars 
 with a faboulous graphic! The best is the online: you can challenge a lot of racers of all around 
 the world as americans, french, german and italian in fantastic race as the legendary Nurburgring 
 or maybe in the streets of Las Vegas! The career is realtively short but the online game with all 
 its ranks it's incredible!!! With COD2 it's absolutely the best launch game of the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewy942
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  I love racing games. I have played racing like Grand Turismo 3 to Need For Speed Underground 2 
 and Project Gotham Racing 3 is arguabley the best game I have ever played.
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the best in its series. I have to admit that the fact that you cant 
 modify your cars kinda disapoints me. The lighting effects in the game are amazing and the best 
 I have every seen in any game. Your suroundings will make you feel like you are there. And the 
 car detail is beautiful. The graphics in this game are almost unbeatable.
  
  Now down to the cars. The cars are amazing, you can get many types of cars like a lamborghini, 
 farrari, or astin martin. But you can only have four cars in your garage. The game also tells you 
 everything you need to know about your car. It depends on what car you get but there are quite 
 a few color choices for you. I have to say the cars are unmatched.
  
  Game play. The game play will keep you playing for long hours because there isnt a part that is 
 easy or simple that will bor you to tears. The courses are fun but if you ever get bored with them 
 then you can make your own. Game play is great!
  
  I would have to say this game is near perfect all around and is unmatched in its genre of games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rancid_toejam
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Okay when i firls played this game, i was quite skeptical.... i was not a big fan of the PGR series.... but 
 an hour of playing changed it all. this game is fantastic. lighting is unvbelievable. sounds are 
 exquisite. not the best graphics for 360. but it is a great launch game to show what the 360 has 
 to offer. 
  if you played any racing game, such as Gran Turismo, then this game should have no new qualities. 
 buy cars with credits. put the into the shop. blah blah blah. obviously there is the whole KUDOS 
 thing.... just another name for points i get. you earn them from doing stunts like drifts and takeovers.
 
  
  great game I will buy it if i were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  After playing for many hours, this game just becomes addicting. The thrill of going over 200 mph 
 and taking tight cornes just gets your blood pumping. The graphics of the whole game are amazing, 
 and all the cars look life like. The game could have been done better if the damage to the cars 
 looked better. Because flying into a wall at 200 mph shouldnt simply put a little dent in your 
 hood. The sound of the game is really good because all the cars sound like the real thing. The 
 game could have been done better if there was an option to costumize the cars, or at least give 
 them a better paint job. But over all the game is what the 360 was created for: amzing grapghics 
 and killer sounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royalpierre
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and will definitely set the bar for future racing games on this console. Reason 
 being; amazing graphics and gameplay, the sounds of the vehicles seem perfectly accurate, and the 
 online play is lag free and full of players that actually want to play instead of piss everybody 
 off. One thing about the graphics is during a straight-a-way you can use the right thumbstick to 
 view the area around you and see exactly what the hype is all about; the cities look perfect. It 
 really feels as if you are there. Plus, watching Gotham TV is nice addition to the online gameplay. 
 You can check out the best there is in the PGR world and learn from them. The one thing i am anticipating 
 is the online PGR tournaments, so get the game and start practicing. I highly recommend this game 
 as part of your Xbox 360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I think that this games was sick i loved playing it nothing to different for the other PGR games 
 but it just seemed better, and online is good except when you get those losers that cheat to win 
 but it was still fun.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was great i loved it im glad they didnt change anything but they added 
 unlockable wheel metals it was fun trying to get them all. It was great filling up all the garages 
 and walking around them was kinda cool a first for me.
  
  Graphics: The graphics bloow me away as i said before i couldn't believe that i was playing a videogame 
 it honestly looked so real, i loved the backgrounds, buy PGR games are known for the great background 
 affects.
  
  Sound: The sound was great i loved listening to the engine purr. I also loved smashing into the 
 wall and listening to that PINCC... That the car made when it crashed, when you switched your view 
 to inside the car you heard the car even more and sounded even more real.
  
  Value: This game is worth every penny. If you are looking for a great racing game this might be 
 the one for you playing hours on end, you will love it.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: This is a great game to own for your 360 if you have a chance to get this game 
 you should get it, i loved every feature for this game a 10/10 it was worth every penny and worth 
 play too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkgto
Rating: 3.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  So lets talk about project gotham, or what I like to call project suck. According to Microsoft, 
 life starts at 170 mph... so lets talk about gameplay. After manuevering through the easy to use 
 though somewhat pixelated main menu (yes I am running it on HDTV 1080i) you get to choose from 
 either live racing, xbox only, or career mode. Choose whatever, though career mode is how you unlock 
 cars. The cars look nice but only on 1080i. When I ran the game on 720p the game looked like crap. 
 It looked almost the same as the last project gotham, so microsoft sure did a lot of work prettying 
 up the pictures they released to the public. The game does not look that good to be honest. The 
 only time the graphics look as good as they should is when you are walking around the garage, other 
 than that, the worlds are made up of not so polished textures, accompanied with really jagged lines 
 on some of the cars. 
  
  The Handling of the cars sucks. In general they are not that maneuverable, and so you must be able 
 to learn to drift. Drifting is pretty hard as opposed to NFSMW or NFSU2, and the world is not nearly 
 as fast. 
  
  The sound sucks. The soundtracks feature some craptacular artists, though if you are a sucker for 
 pop culture then you might feel right at home. You can choose from japanese pop all the way to 
 industrial with bands like skinny puppy (who sucks) among others. The cars sound flat and unrealistic, 
 the sound is just... it sounds analog. The engines sound fake with the exception of the ferrari 
 and a few others, say like the lamborghini's. 
  
  All in all, this game is just poorly made, as it seems most microsoft games are anymore. Perhaps 
 these guys should take a lesson or two in developing racing games from EA or someone who knows. 
 Don't waste your money on this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelosand
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This was my second game for the new system. Having never played the other two in the series i had 
 my doubts but as soon as i started playing those doubts were gone. This game is  
 cool! Even on a Sd tv it looks beautiful the cars gleam to perfection and the FP view has to be 
 seen to be believed. Buy it for the cars then race for your gamescore. This game is definetly on 
 of the best games so far on the xbox 360! I love this game so much it is highly addictive .You can 
 save your races take photos and then watch them in the GOTHAM tv area. ON multiplayer its really 
 good. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikekane21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  The first game I played on the Xbox 360, my first impressions? Wow! Thats all that can sum it up, 
 the graphics produced by the game looked better than anything I had seen before on a console. So 
 thats a good start Graphics (and compared to other 360 games) were great. Then the gameplay impressed 
 me alot, the way the game had been designed felt so structured and enjoyable.
  
  The controls also added to my enjoyment, the two triggers on the back of the console did all the 
 work, accelerate and brake. Simple yet complex enough so that it would take time to master. Project 
 Gothem Racing has raised the bar for other racing games that may appear in the future on the 360. 
 A great option with the sound is that you can have your own music playing as you race, an excellent 
 added extra for you to enjoy!
  
  Ok so the gameplay can become slightly repetitve but theres plenty of tracks to choose from and 
 also a custom track builder for your enjoyment. With multi player options and Xbox live options 
 this game should last you a while. Not having played the previous games myself I do not know from 
 a first person account what the other games are like, but from what I have heard there is no major 
 changes. Thats a good thing, its a formula which works well. But can new tracks and better graphics 
 keep fans of the series returning? A reccomended buy for one of the first games for the 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingSwampy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 or PGR3 as it will be known from now on, is the follow up to the very good 
 XBOX racer PGR2... duh. PGR3 is very similar to the last game which is kinda disappointing but 
 this is still a good game.
  
  Graphics:
  Mmm tasty, the XBOX 360 allows for some very nice reflections and textures on the cars and tracks 
 which bring racing games colser to real life than they've ever been.
  
  Add in a silky smooth framerate that never stutters and a new in car view that adds even more to 
 the immersion factor, and you've got a very pretty game indeed. If I had to find a negative it 
 would be that it the levels still look kinda empty, you do have bystanders taking photos but that's 
 it. And you sometimes notice textures loading up a little to late, and some may say it's not a 
 big enough leap from PGR2, but still this is the best looking racer EVER!!. 
  
  The tracks are nicer this time in design and there is more of each city, meaning longer races and 
 more varied and interesting routes. But there is not as many city's as in PGR2, four this time 
 and Nuremberg makes a return to bring it up to 5. 
  
  Sound:
  Great selection of tunes in this game from classical to Japanese pop it works very well if you 
 like the styles of music on display here, I don't really like Banghra or some of the Hip hop stuff 
 but I won't mark the game down for that, it's still a good selection of songs.
  
  The sound effects are great for the cars, everyne has a different engine sound, and they all sound 
 powerful and as they are meant to. The City streets are unusually quiet but that's the case in 
 all racing games.
  
  Playability:
  This plays like... PGR2, the developers really should have tried to add a few more new things to 
 the game as it's kinda like PGR2.5 instead of PGR3 but whatever it's still very fun to play.
  
  This time around it's faster than ever, there is more opportunity's to drift around corners, 
 and drifting seems easier thanks to wider roads and overall the game just seems more fun. The single 
 player game could be longer but completing the game with all platinum medals will take a very long 
 time as it's rock hard. Online play is as fun as ever with easy set up , online career and no lag, 
 very nice.
  
  Overall this game is probably the best launch title along with Call of Duty 2. It offers fun, impressive 
 looking racing, has good replay value and is solid online. It may be a bit too similar to PGR2 
 for some peoples liking, but that was a good game and this is even better. My review score says 
 8.7 due to the marks I've given graphics, sound ect and I can't change that. So don't bother with 
 the score, the real score is 9/10 a very nice racing game that is easily in my top 10 racing games 
 ever made.
  
  Burn rubber baby!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbzuk
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game is good, real good, in fact I would go as far as saying it is perfect if you play it 
 on live! The online career mode is excellent, as is the solo career. If you want some fun without 
 the stats, play against others on live.
  The graphics border on realism, the handling model is forgiving and the gameplay excellent. The 
 choice of cars is good. The only thing missing is a proper damage model. It could be improved by 
 allowing you to design your own skind for your car like in forza, but this is only a wish for PGR4 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiA-Beast
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:30 am PT
Review:  Aright, I got my hands on the latest PGR and I must say when I put it in, I was impressed. I started 
 in the garage, where I looked at the car I owned. There I truly saw the fine graphics that can 
 be produced from that wonderful newfangled Xbox machine. 
  
  Anyhow, I continued on to race and it seemed almost too real. The graphics are unbelievable, sound 
 quality is pretty good, and you could tell that the developers spent a good amount of time critique-ing 
 and just, making every car perfect, from all aspects.
  
  Gameplay is to be expected of any driving sim, slow down on the curves, ride peoples drafts and 
 whatnot. I dont know about your opinion, but as for me, I like the realism.
  
  All in all, this is a great game, worth the 50 bucks, I havent gotten to multiplayer but I here 
 its sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carpe_Noctum
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  First, I have over 10 years building cars, and racing, from restorations to Track cars. Including 
 Lotus, Porsche, Lambo, ect.
  
  I really like this game but as someone who has driven most of the cars, the handling is off. Accurate 
 or not, it is nice that all the cars feel very different; from accl. to braking and over steer/under 
 steer. The track selection is varied only by route as there are only a few different cities. Nurburgring 
 is a decent addition and as fun as the track is to actually drive, it doesn't translate too well 
 in a video game.
  The soundtrack is really one of the nicer aspects as I was sure that I would be using my custom 
 tunes but I found it well varied and found a new appreciation for Bangra.
  The graphics are very nice and well done. Playing it on both an HDTV and a SDTV I can say that 
 the game looks just as good on both sets 98% of the time. The SDTV has less jaggies and the HDTV 
 has much brighter lighting as the night-lights are much brighter.
  On-line is as all on-line is; it all depends on who you play with/against. Some races are great 
 fun while others are less than worthless.
  
  All in all, it's a great driving game that shouldn't be missed and on the harder difficulty settings 
 can be very fun and have a good lasting value.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 500abelard
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are great, the cars are beautiful and the roar of the engines are rich. This game 
 is full in options and features. The on-line options is great right down the TV option that allows 
 you to sneak in and watch your friends race. Even though Gamespot gave this game the Best of Award 
 for the 360 I chose to rent it first. I am a long time Burnout fan, driving arcade. Moving over 
 to this game was a little more difficult for me since I kept discovering the hand break was not 
 the boost button as in Burnout. However, once I had the chance to play with a friend I started 
 to get used to the driving and I found the game truly enjoyable.
  
  I have only played the game a bit and I would recommend it to friends for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LioNheaRt_game
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  continuing the series of racers that started in the first xbox launch, this game evolves the online 
 play most, it introduces gotham tv, a great way to learn with the pros.
  The graphics just need a good tv to see that they are great but if you dont have that tv they still 
 look great.
  The gameplay is the same that the previous game, is still good for hardcore gamers and new ones, 
 but for the next game Bizarre creations may have to add some element to introduce something new 
 to the game, or it will become repetitive.
  This one of the best launch games of the 360, if not the best. If youre no stranger to the series 
 buy it, if you like racers buy it but if you are a casual player and you dont have live then rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics are amazing. The in car view shows various artifacts on the Windows, because a window 
 is hardly ever perfectly clean.
  The Cities look amazing, and for the first time the Spectators are full 3D and alive. I'm a big 
 fan of the GranTurismo Series from the other Console. This Game may not have the depth of a game 
 like that, but it is meant to be more of an arcade Racer.
  The GothamTV Feature is cool. You can watch other racers competing online, which is great for picking 
 up driving tips on various courses.
  You can Race online, and if your good, you can end up being broadcasted live on GothamTV.
  The 
 AI Drivers are quite good.
  The Replays are exellent.
  The Sound is pretty awesome.
  There is nothing I can complain about with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toddONE1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:37 am PT
Review:  First the Good:
  
  The game looks beautiful. Cars look like real, you have multiple in car views (my favorite) and 
 the cities are nothing but spectacular. The LIVE play is unmatched (Sony will have to do something 
 if they want to compete in the here and now) and virtually flawless. The only issue I have seen 
 (heard) is an echo every once and a while but not very common. The ability to rate players is also 
 great as you can let other people know which people just go out and try to bump, crash, and otherwise 
 destroy your game and stats.
  
  Now the Bad:
  
  What happened to the ease of inviting friends to join or play PGR? The only place I can even find 
 where the option is not grayed out is in 'Playtime' and not the online career. Also, what happened 
 to the multitude of cars previously available for different classes. I know time was an issue but 
 I loved racing the other muscle cars and such which helped you master the courses and techniques 
 prior to getting into a 500+ hp RWD race car. I still can figure out how to turn up the radio so 
 I can actually hear the music. I have tried and tried with no luck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TransAm-Jeff
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:04 am PT
Review:  Amazing. Bizarre did a fantastic job with this game. The graphics, sound and environments are second 
 to none. The in-car camera view is incredible. I find myself driving cars I'm familiar with ( Corvette 
 C6, ZR1) and the interiors are spot on. I also find myself driving slowly just to see everything 
 on the tracks. Driving through the Vegas tracks at night is awe striking. The level of detail is 
 amazing. 
  
  My only complaint is the lack of cars. I would like to have seen more American cars in PGR3. The 
 only GM showings are the Corvettes. Why not put in the classics like the 1969 PontiacGTO The Judge, 
 1977 Pontiac "Bandit" Trans Am or the 1969 ZL1 Camaro? Even some of the newer perfomance cars were 
 left out. The Pontiac Solstice, GTO, Trans Am, Chevrolet Camaro SS, Cobalt SS, Impala SS. All of 
 these would have been nice. How about Chrysler? The Hemi Superbird or the '71 Plymouth Cuda? 
 
  
  Still though, the car selection is adequate and this game is the best luanch title I've seen. Great 
 work on a great launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  I got an xbox 360 the day it came out, but only got one game. So yesteray i got this instead of 
 perfect dark zero. MAN WAS IT WORTH IT! This game is addicting, has good graphics, fun online and 
 single player gaming. It is all around perfect. And best of all, its NOT ONE OF THOSE 60$ GAMES! 
 Retail is $50 and it is awesome!
  
  Dont hesitate on this one! Its not like the burnout series where all you do is crash and take people 
 down (which is also very fun) , its much more realistic and INTENSE!! Very fast cars and the blurring 
 focus as you drive looks incredible. 
  
  Get this game, its awesome.
  -Jeff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaRidley42
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:39 am PT
Review:  This game is not one the main games I was looking forward to playing when I bought my x360, but 
 after I tired of the other games I had, I decided to give it a try, and I am sure glad I did.
 
  
  The main point of the game is definately its graphics, from the people that stand on the sidelines 
 during races, to the excellent motion blur effect, the graphics are no less than stellar.
  
  The gameplay is extremely difficult at first, but the first time you nail a huge drift around 
 a turn, engine screaming, you will be hooked. The cars all handle as you would expect them to if 
 you were to really to be driving them.
  
  The online play is one of the best parts of the game. Gotham TV is a excellent way to pick up some 
 new techniques, or just waste some time. You can also watch the record-setting runs of others on 
 the leaderboards, even if it was days ago.
  
  The sound is excellent, and pairs with all of the views very well. The acoustics change how you 
 would expect them to when you switch from 3rd person to cockpit view, and vice-versa.
  
  Overall, I would very much recommend this game to any fan of racing games, and If you are not a 
 fan, this game may make you one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REDLiNE_10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2005 3:00 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a game that "feels" real but don't want to deal with all the touchiness of 
 REAL physics, PGR3 is the game for you. Bizarre has created a game that gives you a sense of speed 
 and realism but allows for quite a bit margin for error, allowing for a very fun and forgiving 
 game allowing just about anyone into cars to pick up. So if you're a real hardcore racing sim fan, 
 better stick to Forza or Gran Turismo. 
  
  Graphically this game is very stunning. You get cool motion blurs and the surfaces on the cars 
 are very reflective. Also the interiors of the cars look awesome, since they're fully rendered 
 and accurate. 
  
  Sound is also amazing if you're running 5.1. You can pin point every effect, from tires screeching 
 to the car coming up behind you.
  
  The roster for the game is quite small compared to the GT franchise, but there's so really big 
 labels in this game. McClaren anyone? When was the last time you saw the McClaren F1 in a game 
 (the road version) besides besides one of those Need for Speed games back in the day. 
  
  The career mode isn't that hard at all if you're trying to complete on Silver or lower. When going 
 for Gold, it really helps if you've memorized the track, mainly for the time attack modes. The 
 lap time challenges for career probably confused me the most in this game. You have hot lap, timed 
 lap, and breakthrough (essentially try to get to the check point before time runs out) . Why wouldn't 
 they all just be hot lap or timed lap? It's exactly the same concept, try to complete a lap before 
 the allotted time runs out. The only difference is, in one challenge the time goes up and in the 
 other the time goes down, go figure. That's my only problem with the online mode. What to love 
 however is the garage mode. As you buy cars you can to be a baller and store them in high class 
 garages. What's cool is you get to pick where to put the car and you can walk around the garage 
 to admire or show off your acquired collection. 
  
  Where you're probably going to spend most of your time though is playing online. Either in the 
 online career mode where you're ranked or games made by other users are you. In online career you 
 can try your best to drive clean, but a lot of the time you either get smashed into the wall on 
 the first corner or you find someone on your racing line, and let's face it, it's either you or 
 them that's going to eat it. So please try to drive clean and just out drive your opponent, for 
 my sake. But if they put you into the wall and you have the chance to get them back, let em have 
 it!
  
  Overall this is a stellar game, and is worth the buy if you look at as a launch title must have 
 or a game to add to your racing library. So light em up and I guess I'll see you on LiVE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heydawg321
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:30 pm PT
Review:  PROJECT GOTHAM RACING 3
  
  Intro - Just so people understand, this is not alot like Gran Turismo. I was expecting that but 
 i didn't get it, it has less than 100 cars, and no oppurtunities to tune them, or work with them. 
 However, this is a great racing game that is a **** load of fun.
  
  Gameplay - Smooth, this game runs great, controls are easy, and power drifting is super fun. Consistant 
 practice with races and you'll be great in no time. The actual racing is a little hard at first, 
 but it's all about repetition, something PGR3 gives you. Load times are not as big of a hassle 
 as some are making it out to be, don't listen to that.
  
  Graphics - Excellent! Dirt collects on the windsheild, the in car view is something to see, especially 
 seeing your drivers hand move to switch gears. Only thing that prevented this from 10/10 was the 
 shadow effects, i've noticed that Xbox 360 launch games have bad shadow effects. There literally 
 squares that make up the shadow, so when you overlay this on a great graphic surface, it's quite 
 bad and annoying. Your only going to notice this in the in car view, so i only subtracted 1 point. 
 
  ( Based on HDTV Monitor )
  
  Sound - Excellent also. The rev's of your car are great, and the sound of the screeching tires 
 on a powerslide or the busting of car frame if you smoke another player into the wall is exciting 
 and refreshing. Music is top notch too, really puts you in the mood, especially on the last lap 
 when you have a great beat to drive too, something to experience for sure.
  
  Overall - Excellent game, great graphics except for jaggie shadows, Music is the best in any racing 
 game i've heard, and the gameplay is easy once you have completed a few races, definately a game 
 for racing fans, and worth a buy perhaps, or rental at least, from general gamers alike
  
  VERDICT - RECOMMENDED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschool12790
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Project Gothem Racing 3 is definitely a great buy for anyone who is a fan of the series or just 
 likes a good racing game with a twist. Basically the same overall gameplay of the previous games 
 only with more ways to earn kudos. Also new in this one there are many new cars, all real life 
 models with engine sounds nearly realistic. The lighting effects are amazing, making PGR3 one of 
 the, if not the, best graphics of any launch game for the Xbox 360. Also new on PGR 3 something 
 called "Gothem TV" which allows you to watch the best players compete against each other with amazing 
 camera angles. It has a story mode, which has no real story, but is fun none the less. As you race 
 you collect money, or "credits", which allow you to purchase better and faster cars. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotRaceGames
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  i have played the pgr series on a couple of my friends xboxs systems and well i guess i just had 
 a brain slip when i purchased this. Pgr3 is a great game and graphics wise its awsome but i guess 
 i forgot that this series is not so much about the raceing aspect as it is getting your to be a 
 good driver. sure Gran Tourismo has this aspect when it comes to lisences but the bulk of the game 
 revolves around doing cups and various other races. this game seems to keep with the whole doing 
 a cup with races then doing a cup that involves you getting a high kudos score or beating a lap 
 time or getting a high speed. it may just be me keep to the races. the point of a race game is 
 to race others especialy in a career mode! or am i just crazy? 
  
  P. S i do have to give credit to the online gameplay and the creating your own map that i have to 
 say is very cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:33 pm PT
Review:  OMG this is the daddy of racing games. It isnt exactly hard on normal but omg the graphics are 
 supurb. Looks like a real sports event. The gameplay is awsome and i love the fact that is shows 
 you the interiors of the car such as the dash board and the radio and the gauges actually go up. 
 This is my second favourite xbox 360 game because i have to admit i love call of duty 2 more than 
 this. But back to the review. The sounds in the game are all taken from other cars. And i really 
 want to know how the got there hands on one of the last cars seeing as though theres only 5 in 
 the wolrd. And for the first time ever the crowd look real, not like cardboard cutouts that you 
 find in magazine shops. 
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  Value 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazychris90
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 4:10 am PT
Review:  this is one of the two first 360 games i've had and it is unbelievable. Stunning graphics, sound 
 like you are virtually in the car racing. So what more can you want, but remember, it is just the 
 begining of next generation gaming.
  
  The game plays very much like the previous Project Gotham Racing game so the exciting gameplay 
 stays the same and their is only few new feature's. One of the features is the garages which you 
 can show off your cars in a beutiful building to your friends. Basically you buy a car and place 
 it in an ideal spot around your garage, you do this until it fills up then you get a brand new 
 one to fill and you keep getting bigger and better looking ones as you progress. The races feel 
 slightly more simpler than Project Gotham Racing 2. The kudos system is the same except you use 
 "Credits" to buy new cars.
  
  The graphics doesn't really show off what 360 can do unlike "Perfect Dark Zero" which blew peoples 
 eyes out how extreme the graphics actually is. There is stream lines at both sides of the screen 
 which make it feel much faster. The car models are as shiney as my shoes when they are polished 
 ready for school so that's great feature plus you spend most of you time looking at the extremely 
 detailed palm tree's. When you move the camera angle on even the slightest touch motion blur will 
 appear to make it feel faster than it really is.
  
  Sound is brilliant! U feel like you are there, right in the seat driving the car (especially on 
 the "inside the car" view) . There are a few famous songs from aphex twin to the streets so it will 
 keep you entertained for a while when you are racing. The drifting sound is brilliant and the sound 
 changes when you are viewing inside the car.
  
  Overall it is a brilliant and fantastic game sound wise plus it will keep you company until you 
 get every single trophy from tin to platinum.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cms2127
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 5:53 pm PT
Review:  PGR is a very good racing game. they made the backround objects look amzon. but there are a few 
 problems with PGR. one of the badd things is that you cant customize your vechicle. like in NFS 
 you can change the body parts and put spoilers in. also this game is one of the hardest games to 
 turn your car. Every time i turn my car either crashes from goin to fast or when i use the E-Brake 
 my car does donuts. The last thing that is bad is the sound of thecar when you crash. when you 
 crash, its a simple (dump) .
  Its amost like your tappin a wall with your fingers. but other than those bad things, PGR is an 
 amazing game to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostNC360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 10:42 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is an excellent racing game. First of all i played Need for Speed and the 
 controls are terrible. PGR3, however, really hit it on the nose. The controls for PGR3 are extemely 
 smooth and easy to get used to. Once you learn how to get the turns down the game itself becomes 
 very fun. The graphics in this game are amazing. Every single detail is done perfectly and looks 
 beautiful. The cars and backgrounds alike are amazing. Speaking of cars, the selection is great 
 as well. They are also affordable which means you don't have to save up credits for the entire 
 game to get the good ones. What really sets PGR3 aside is Gotham TV. This allows you to go online 
 and watch some of the best players in the world to pick up new tricks. Online play is really fun 
 as well. There's nothing like beating a friend in a photo finish online. Overall the game is great 
 and looks amazing. Defiantly a next-gen game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diesel3291
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  I was lucky enough to get my xbox 360 the day before Christmas. Thanks to the guy at Gamestop for 
 calling me. I had purchased PGR3 weeks before just to appease my anxiousness in getting the actual 
 system. I am very pleased with the game and really have very little negative things to say about 
 it. I have a 42" plasma display and noticed that the display looked better with the 720 resolution 
 than the 1024. Not sure if its just my tv or not. Gotham TV is a great idea, but I'm not sure how 
 many people actually sit around watching others. The downloadable ghosts are awesome and show how 
 much work you really have to do before getting to world level. Overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandan1
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  To be honest when i got pgr3 i thought this would be it, the best racing game ever but when i stuck 
 it in my xbox 360 i was horrible suprised ,you see this game was meant to have the edge on every 
 other racer ,well ever really sure enough the graphics are improved but really if you dont have 
 an hdtv there really is not much diffrernce between this and gran turismo 4 on ps2 .
  here is my list of why pgr3 is bad 
  1. poor career mode 
  2. no real improvement in graphics 
 without hd-tv 
  3. poor presentation and layout
  4 awful soundtarck
  5. not enough tracks 
  6. really repaptitive 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:08 am PT
Review:  You can't expect much from launch titles. Which is why PGR3 is one of those games that just blows 
 you away. We expected this game to be and look great, but it far exceeded my expectations.
  
  Simply put this is the best in the series. The graphics are just beautiful. Every aspect of 
 this games presentation is just amazing. The inerior views are perhaps the part of the graphics 
 that will make you drool. The Dials work, they show your exact speed, temp, RMP, and everything 
 else you'd find in the Dash Board of a car. You'll see the driver shift gears, and on the Ferrari's 
 you'll see him shift from the steerwheels.
  
  When inside the car, you can look around the interior in game. This is great because it increases 
 your sense of actually being in the car. You can use the rearview mirrors, and side mirrors attached 
 to the vehichle to see things behind you. 
  
  The games reflections are mirrored to the point of realism. The only problem with the graphics 
 however is the framerate. It can drop down sometimes when a full set of cars just pile up on each 
 other in one spot of the track, but this event rarely happens so you probably wont encounter this 
 issue, unless you're online of course.
  
  The games sound is fairly decent. Each car sounds different from one another, and the sound effects 
 of road noises are nice. The sound track isn't as big as PGR2s, but it does have a large variety 
 of music. If that isn't enough for your appetite then you can always use custom tracks. It doesn't 
 matter where the tracks come from, whether it's your PC, Ipod, or PSP, the music will blend into 
 the game. You can have it louder than the game sound if you choose. The XBOX 360 is truly a mervelous 
 piece of plastic.
  
  The gameplay is perhaps the primary reason why the game is loved so much. It's like apple orange. 
 THe perfect cross of that sim stlye arcade racing. It's perfect for anyone whose looking to get 
 out of the import tuner scene.
  
  The on-line play is virtually butter. You can't ask for a better game on-line. Their is no lag 
 what so ever, and the community is as diverse as the country we live in. Some racers are laid back 
 and casual, and some get anal if you trade paint with them. Once you find the right set of people 
 to race along side of, you'll be playing for hours on in. The on-line play will definitly keep 
 you playing for months on in, just like PGR2 did. The only lag that you may possibly experience 
 would be if you had a bad connectoin from you ISP, or a crappy router. 
  
  PGR3 is the ideal racing game to get for your 360. You've got a large variety of cars (all of which 
 are stupendous) and a great variety and variation of tracks. The game does have product placement, 
 but it's handled tastfully in way you can joke about it online with you buddies. It isn't rammed 
 up your anus like in other racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is a great racing game for the Xbox 360 and easily takes over the place 
 of best racing series, replacing grand turismo. The graphics are wicked beautiful, the gameplay 
 is addictive, challenging and changes to keep you impressed and involved in continuing through 
 out the game. The controls are tight, the music is nice as well as the car sounds. They have changed 
 it up so you can start with fast cars like the ford gt or ultima. I know this is a short review, 
 especially from me, but its just an over all more than solid racing game. Definitely number 1 launch 
 game for the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  In the wake of racing games we've seen the genre go in two directions. On one side there's the 
 arcade racers, including Burnout and Midnight Club, putting speed and reckless driving first. On 
 the other side we have racing simulators like Gran Turismo and Forza Motorsport, which encourage 
 careful and clean driving as opposed to the drift-crazy arcade racers. What if, the two "sub-genres" 
 if you will, came together for one ultimate combination? One would be inclined to say that EA's 
 Need for Speed fulfills this, with Hot Pursuit and Most Wanted in particular. However, theres 
 one game that takes it above the already impressive NFS games. My friend, PGR3 is the true answer 
 to the merging of racing sims and arcade racers.
  
  By now, the PGR series has made a name for itself with two highly successful arcade/sim mixed racers 
 on the Xbox. The franchise made an even bigger splash in the water at E3 2005 as one of the best-looking 
 Xbox 360 games revealed. Since then, PGR3 has been among the most highly anticipated Xbox 360 launch 
 titles. With each new photo and video preview, gamers have been drooling over their computer and 
 TV screens at the beauty of PGR3's visuals. Now, with the launch of the Xbox 360, PGR3 has been 
 let loose to send gamers on a ride they won't soon forget. 
  
  Developed by Bizarre and published by Microsoft, PGR3 immerses gamers in a racing world that gets 
 right to what it has to offer: a heart-pumping thrill ride. Upon starting PGR3 you're immediately 
 treated to a list of high-speed machines. These cars are so fast, that the worst car in the game, 
 technically, is an old-school Ferrari. That's one nice touch PGR3 has, it gets right to the thrills 
 of its racing unlike other racers. While one may see this as a way that would make PGR3's racing 
 wear thin fast the game actually holds up. You'll get a good thrill when starting; no doubt, but 
 the racing only gets faster and more exciting as you progress. In fact, by the time you get to 
 race the games fastest cars it'll make the cars that gave you a thrill ride when starting feel 
 like lawnmowers. 
  
  Several different racing types can be found within PGR3. These modes will include your everyday 
 circuit and sprint races along with a few timed runs. You'll also find a few twists on these game 
 modes as well, but I'll focus on the essential race modes. First off, there are the keen-eye-required 
 cone challenges where you race between sets of cones aiming to earn enough Kudos. Occasionally, 
 you'll get to take part in one-on-one races against a car with similar stats to yours. And finally, 
 PGR3 will allow you to take part in Time vs. Kudos events-timed runs that require you to gain Kudos 
 to stop the clock for a few seconds. Each racing mode provided works very well and helps break 
 up the monotony of doing the same race over and over. 
  
  Some of you might be wondering, What is Kudos and how do I get them? In a nutshell, Kudos is 
 PGR3s term for style points. You gain Kudos by doing power-slides, drafting an opponent, getting 
 air, driving on two wheels, and so on. By gaining Kudos you get to access more cars to buy within 
 the game. Also, when you get enough Kudos your rank in Gotham Career will go up a level. Youll 
 start at level ten and gradually work your way up to level one. While it isnt required that you 
 earn Kudos its in your best interest to do so. Just the thrill of pulling off power-slides and 
 gaining access to more cars is enough reason to make you want to gain as much Kudos as you can. 
 However, beyond unlocking cars and increasing your rank, Kudos doesnt have that big a role itself. 
 It wouldve been nice if the developers had come up with a system to where you could use your earned 
 Kudos for other purposes, such as performance or visual upgrades. Nonetheless, earning Kudos is 
 fun and the game does a good job of encouraging you to get as many points as you can in each race. 
 
  
  Of course, what's racing without impressive visuals to bring life to each and every event? As one 
 of the best-looking games revealed at E3 2005, PGR3 was instantly dubbed a looker for the Xbox 
 360 launch line-up. And just like at E3, youll once again be blown away with the games crisp 
 and sharp visuals. When starting your first race, PGR3 will astound you with just the photo-realistic 
 car models. Each car looks virtually identical to its real-life counterpart, right down to the 
 fenders and taillights. Theres also limited damage modeling for each car. When you bump into a 
 curve youll notice that your car will get strip-like scratches, body dents and the mirrors will 
 also get crushed. Also, when you crash youll notice that in certain courses the pedestrians will 
 back away from the fence you crashed into. This helps provide a nice sense of realism when you 
 dont do so hot on certain turns.
  
  Its not just good car models that makes PGR3 look so good. The buildings in the city levels look 
 particularly impressive. As you rush by each building in a city youll see the shape and reflections 
 of each one become exposed to show just how great they look. Yet, its the cars themselves that 
 look the most impressive. The crisp detail on each car looks great, but the luminous reflections 
 put to work on each are beyond eye-popping. As you drive around corners and in and out of underpasses 
 youll see each car become brighter and dimmer than before. As if photo-realistic lighting, reflections 
 and shadowing werent enough, you can also watch and save replays as well as take photos of your 
 cars along with your opponents. When you do take photos of your cars, whether its during a replay 
 or in a garage, you can change the look of the cars and area around them with various effects. 
 You can alter the shutter speed, brightness, color, focus, contrast, seam and much more. About 
 the only problems in PGR3s graphics is that the trees look a little bland and the framerate can 
 get slightly choppy when at high speeds. 
  
  Top-notch graphics are nice and all, but without some good sounds you won't be blasting your TV's 
 volume. Thankfully, Bizarre has dedicated some great sounds and tunes to their latest racer. The 
 cars in PGR3 sound much like their real-life counterparts. Each car has their own tone and engine 
 hum-some are loud and noisy while others are subdued and muffled. But the best part about the sound 
 in PGR3 is the games soundtrack. Most racing soundtracks nowadays are composed of only mainstream 
 rap and nu metal. Thats not the case here; PGR3 has songs from multiple genres. Youll find rock, 
 hip-hop, electronica, and even bhangra music in PGR3s soundtrack. Not only is there a nice variety 
 of songs in the soundtrack, but they also fit the game very well. When racing and listening to 
 songs from a band or artist in, say the dark electronica genre, youll get a nice, relaxed feeling 
 while racing. Since PGR3 isnt much of an in-your-face or reckless driving-inspired game the music 
 works pretty well when youre driving around. However, the sound effects are pretty standard next 
 to the games unique soundtrack. Tire squeaking, glass-breaking and thud noises from collisions 
 are much of what makes up the sound effects in PGR3. Aside from that, PGR3 sounds great and the 
 soundtrack alone ranks it above how most racing games sound. 
  
  As I mentioned earlier, PGR3 is a real thrill ride from start to finish. Playing PGR3 is like being 
 on a roller-coaster that goes faster around sharper turns with each passing second. As thrilling 
 as PGR3 may be, it's a rather simple game to get used to, for newcomers and veterans. One attribute 
 that makes PGR3 such a familiar game when you play it is that it's literally a combination of arcade 
 racing and racing simulators. On the arcade-racing side, PGR3 feels very fast and exciting, especially 
 when pulling off insane power-slides. Despite being very fast and having arcade-like drifting, 
 PGR3 requires you to drive carefully, otherwise you're bound to lose control and potentially lose 
 an event. So, while you can reach some great speeds and pull off some outrageous power-slides with 
 the arcade-like feeling, you'll need to be careful of how you play. This combination might sound 
 rather odd at first, but the game executes them extremely well. 
  
  Racing's one thing, what you can use to race is another. Every car in PGR3 is pretty much a "super-car", 
 so don't expect to find any Honda Civics, Toyota Celicas or anything like that. There are a total 
 of eighty cars that you can buy and drive, each with its own varying strengths and weaknesses. 
 While each car will feel familiar to another, some require different methods of racing and are 
 better suited to specific event types. Collecting cars will open up more garages for you to store 
 your cars, which you can also walk around, take photos of your cars and play Geometry Wars as an 
 added bonus. Buying cars is actually very easy to do, since the rewards for winning a race are 
 pretty high. And before you know it, you'll be speeding around in McLaren F1 LM's and Ferrari F50's, 
 ranked the fastest cars in the game. While this may make collecting and buying cars seem too easy, 
 it never hurts to have more cars, right? 
  
  Yet, PGR3 isnt that hard or long of a game. The games main single-player mode-Gotham Career, 
 is separated into online and offline careers. There are several events youll need to take part 
 in before actually completing PGR3s career. However, it should only take about eight hours to 
 complete each event on normal difficulty, offline at least. Not only is Gotham Career rather short, 
 but the game doesnt put up much of a challenge either. The AI is far from dumb, but at the same 
 time isnt very smart or creative. The AI will sometimes pull away on long distances in an attempt 
 to lose you, slow down at hard curves and sometimes get in your way from passing them. However, 
 you can usually outrun them and slide lighting against an opposing car to pass them on a turn. 
 That said, most experienced racing game enthusiasts will want to race on the highest difficulty 
 rather than the normal difficulty which is disappointingly easy. Fortunately, PGR3 is a blast to 
 play thanks in part to the games great sense of speed and most gamers that just want to get a 
 fun experience out of the game will fall in love with it. 
  
  PGR3 was one of the most highly anticipated launch games of for the Xbox 360, and it delivers well 
 on its promises. While there are some stains on the games surface, as a whole it shines bright. 
 PGR3 has amazing graphics, a nicely varied soundtrack and some really fun and exciting races that 
 will keep you coming back again and again. When crossing the finish, PGR3 comes out as a clear 
 winner and if you like racing games and have an Xbox 360 then this is an immediate purchase. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doozier_basic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  This game has unbelievable graphics. I'm not a huge racing fan but damn this is a lot of fun to 
 play. The driving is a little bit more polished than the previous PGR games so it might take a 
 little getting used to. The only complaint I have is that you can't do custom soundtracks anymore. 
 I would love to be able to play music off my IPOD while I was playing. But on the lighter side 
 they do offer a good selection of in-game music. Anyway I recommend this game to anybody who played 
 any of the other PGR games or is just wanting a racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:59 pm PT
Review:  This looks absolutely gorgeous... I'm glad I got this game for the Xbox360. I'm new to the Project 
 Gotham Racing series. I have to say it's pretty hard to control these cars at first. But the more 
 you play the more you get use to the style of racing in this game. The graphics and the car models 
 are just mind blowing. It was either this or need for speed most wanted. But since I ready own 
 NFSMW on PS2 I got this game instead and I wasn't disappointed at all. If you love exotics and 
 foreign high speed cars well then this is the game for you. I really enjoy playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Maybe you didn't get that line, but a guy like me that played racing games like Burnout Revenge 
 and NFS: MW. You can take any turn at full speed, and drift easily, but not in PGR3. I kept messing 
 up my turns in my first game, and it wasn't pretty, you really have to slow down in turns, and 
 find the correct way of braking. THe bad thing about the game is that they don't teach you that, 
 so I would go full at a turn and crash... big time! That'sa result of realism in the game, it's 
 probably the most realistic racing I ever played, from graphics to sound to the convincing environments 
 of your race tracks. Bizarre did a great deal of work into this game, and once you get used to 
 the turns *cough* you'll be hooked with the offline or online career. Gotham TV is a great way 
 to learn from the best, and sometimes a good way to sit back and relax. PGR 3 is really a full 
 packgae racing game with everything to offer, if you're a racing fan, arcade or realistic, you 
 should definately try this out, but remember to slow down on your first turn! It's not Burnout. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkkanny
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:48 am PT
Review:  To start... this game looks pretty good but, its not the best it can be. The cars tend to look a 
 little cartoony at times. The in car view is incredible. words can't really state how well done 
 the in car camera is done. The fact that you can look in all mirrors and to the side is ill. The 
 car physics on the other hand dont feel all that good. Gran turismo 4 on the ps2 has better physics. 
 Its also nice to see that the whole level when your racing seems to be pre loaded... so there aint 
 any of those pop up trees and buildings when you get to a corner. The game has alot of modes to 
 choose from. I havent gotten through all of them yet but from what im tried its all fun. Like I 
 was saying . This game is for people who love a good racing game. For those of us who are looking 
 for the racing game that allows us to have more a personality with what we do then NFS: Most wanted 
 is what you should go for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:10 am PT
Review:  When I turned on PGR3 for my 360; I could almost not believe that it was a launch title. Everything 
 is just so detailed. I guess this is expected for all 360 games- however I am very impressed with 
 what the PGR team has thrown at us this time around. 
  
  The gameplay is going to run very smooth. This time around - you cannot just run into a wall, spin 
 around, do a few flips, and land back on your wheels rolling across the finish line for a 1st place 
 finish. You actually have to go the appropriate speeds at which the track calls for. The only thing 
 that I really didn't like in the gameplay was the lack of damage to the vehicles. This would have 
 gave users a second thought before smashing into another car just to bump them out of thier way. 
 
  
  PGR's has a really wide variety as far as music/soundtracks goes. Which doesnt really matter on 
 the 360 seeing how you can just play your own music from your HDD. By default settings, the ingame 
 cars, and other things will be so loud that it will be almost impossible to hear the music playing 
 anyways. This can become pretty annoying; however I"m sure that it can be fixed (I just havn't 
 discovered how yet) .
  
  I really like what they have done with the online this time.. Everytime you do an Event offline 
 - it automatically compares and shows where you are ranking up against the top players.
  
  Also, the Gothem TV Live thing is pretty interesting when learning how to play - you can watch 
 top competiters on XBL duke it out; try to feel what they are thinking when they head down the 
 stretch to cross that checkered flag.
  
  Overall I feel that PGR3 is a must-have for your XBOX360. It is indeed the Best Racing game for 
 the 360. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamitehero
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  i played this game for about 30 min. at a friends house and i was in love this is the best game 
 for 360 hands down. if you only get 1 game for 360 buy this . plus online kicks ass. everything 
 is so crystal clear and crisp that you forget your not accualy there. this game goes into intense 
 detail. so much that you can accualy is dust on your window that builds up over the race. if some 
 one is behind you at night your car is illuminated on the inside of your cockpit as you drive. 
 buy it 4 yourself u wont be upset 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I reviewed on the Xbox 360, and one thing I can say is, it is as good looking 
 as everyone said it was. The game is as beautiful as it can be. The lighting as unsurpassed, as 
 far as I care. The sound might even be better then the graphics, every engine is wonderfully detailed, 
 you really need a 5.1 system with a nice sub to get the full effect. The last thing I want to say 
 is that, this game is very playable. I havent played too many race games in the last few years, 
 and I was able to jump right in and get going! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja_ferrit
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This game really is amazing, I am a big fan of the PGR series, and have been playing them since 
 the MSR (Metropolis Street Racer) days on dreamcast, the PGR series has gone from strength to strength, 
 and has found it's biggest strength in online play, which is where this game is really amazing. 
 The only other online racer I have played anywhere near the standard of PGR3 is PGR2, and this 
 improves on PGR2 ten fold. The offline career is fun to, as is the gotham tv feature and the AI 
 is pretty cool. Overall this is a great game, and a great launch title for the XBOX 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cromonic
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game and was blown away by it. By far the best racing game I've ever played 
 and I've played a lot of them. I love the fact that there's so many options in the game and the 
 Kudos system is a fun thing. If there is one thing to complain about, the number of rides. I miss 
 some cars but what the heck, you can't get it all. I just hope that the rest of the xbox 360 games 
 will be as good. I can't spend more time on this review, I got to keep on playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is an amazing game that will showcase the Xbox 360's graphical power. Everything 
 about the game is extremely detailed. An example of this is the dust that is on the car window 
 when in cockpit view. Another great graphical effect is the lighting in the game. If you have an 
 HDTV you will be blown away by how this game looks, it's just too bad the game is not 1080i compatible! 
 Playing on a standard television still looks fantastic. The only difference compared to an HDTV 
 is the game seems more fuzzy than when its in 480i.
  
  The slight drawback to this game is the gameplay itself. If you have played the previous Project 
 Gotham games, the physics will feel overwhelmingly familiar.
  
  If you are a racing fanatic or just play games casually, Project Gotham Racing 3 should be the 
 first Xbox 360 game you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerz_04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about this game is it's online play and the first person camera mode inside the 
 cars the detail is amazing it's almost life like and the blurred speed vision ands a great deal 
 of adrinaline flowing through your vines. the racing is intense and the cars are so fast even the 
 slow ones make you feel like your going at 200 MP/H it is really the turning point for all racing 
 games i cant wait for forza motorsport 2. I really recommend this game to the owners or renters 
 of the 360 the only thing that comes close to this game would be need for speed most wanted just 
 play it and you will understand what i am talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webby1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 a fantastic launch title for the Xbox 360. Everyone is wanting to try out 
 new games especially for a brand new console. This 3rd game in the Project Gotham Racing series 
 for the xbox console is a great addition to them. 
  In Project Gotham Racing 3 some of the slowest cars in the game aren't slower than 170 MPH. Also 
 with cars such as Honda, Ferrari, TVR, RUF, Mercedes, Lotus, Shelby, Ford, and a lot more, even 
 with cars such as Mclaren F1 and other spectacular concept cars. 
  Just like a lot of racing games Project Gotham Racing 3 offers lots of things to do, in career 
 mode or maybe just online with friends. The large number of tracks and variety of them is a great 
 addition.
  The difficulty system works great, from the more novice gamers to the PGR hardcores. Again like 
 in Project Gotham Racing 2 the medal system works great, from Steel, Bronze, Silver, Gold and Platinum 
 medals, its easy for gamers to enjoy racing against AI similar to your skill level.
  The Kudos system is still working great and now even better than before. This measures your capabilities 
 for drifting around corners, getting big air, overtaking, or maybe even doing 360 degrees spins. 
 Kudos seem to be earned easier this time but that is also because of the great power of the cars. 
 With lots more credits to earn, medals to earn and achievements to unlock you should spend quite 
 a while playing through the career modes. Of course Xbox Live is a fantastic addition to the game 
 which lets users play against gamers from all around the world. The new Xbox Live features for 
 the 360 can let you choose your gamerzone which can help you when playing against other gamers. 
 You can choose zones such as Pro when you actually play to win but you respect the opponent and 
 the game, and things like underground which is when gamers trash talk and arent bothered if a player 
 shouts at another just because one player beat another. So choosing your zone can help you to be 
 matched with players of the same zone first. But you can still make a lobby just to invite your 
 friends or a certain match which you have organised.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbence12286
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  Great game. The cars are better looking in the game than they are in real life. The game was really 
 easy to learn the controls. In game tracks could have looked a tad better, but everything makes 
 up for that with the cars. Those beautiful cars. You can actually sit through this game and beat 
 every single event and race within 3 days. (If u play one medal all the way through.) Online, this 
 game rocks. Best online feature has to be PGR TV. With PGR TV you can actually watch the best users 
 racing. Definately a great racing game, perfect for the launch of the 360. Definately worth renting 
 or buying. There is also a wide variety of cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeki
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been burned before as a casual racer by games that demand I complete races and trials before 
 I can actually play the entire game. With PGR3, I have a game I can easily run through at bronze 
 level (just a few hours) , unlock all the SP tracks, AND I can immediately drop into MP online with 
 xBox Live at any time.
  
  Fellow MP gamers on "live" have been very reasonable to play with except for a few kids that taunted 
 me about 'being so bad' in one early race (2nd time I'd played and they started a race as soon 
 as I signed in and before I could pick a car of the appropriate class for DER NRBURGRING. )
  
  After that, everyone was golden and I've had a lot of fun racing with these people. 
  
 
  This is a great title to own for any age gamer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vash17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:39 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is the next game in the Project Gotham Racing series. This racing game, like the other two, 
 are about driving with style. You compete in events that span from Tokyo, New York, Germany, London 
 and Las Vegas. This time you can buy what ever car you want. All cars can do atleast 170mph. No 
 more mini coopers.
  
  The 1st thing you will notice in PGR3, is the graphics. PGR3 is the most realistic looking racing 
 game to date. Each city is rendered with insane detail, bluring the line between photo-realism. 
 Each car has been given the same amount of detail, both inside and out. Wait until you see the 
 in dash camera view, it's incredible, it's like riding a rollercoaster. The car damage has been 
 toned down a lot.
  
  The sound is amazing. Each cars engine has been recorded and makes the game come to life. The games 
 soundtrack is also well but together. The music is the just what you want to hear while driving.
 
  
  The gameplay is solid. The cars have a heavier feel to them. Aside from that the game controlls 
 a lot like the last game.
  
  The online play is outstanding. The interface works well, and the game uses a Halo2 like match 
 making ranking system.
  
  This is THE game to get when you get a Xbox360. It is a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZimpanX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Exellent choice of car models, fitting and variable soundtrack, sometimes stunning graphics, excellent 
 multi-player modes, the 5 different difficulty settings makes the career mode very long lasting. 
 The feel, sound and visuals of every car model is awesome!
  
  The Bad: The games is rendered in a resolution lower than 720p, in-game setting may suddenly change 
 such as music settings, the camera and player-name above cars on/off.
  Long and many loading times, no car customization mode, no car damage control
  
  The Review:
 
  The first things you'll notice while playing PGR3 is the stunning graphics and the long loading 
 times. By then your first impression is quite split in half, but the more you play the more things 
 you find to like about the game, but also after a while you will also notice some annoying bugs, 
 for example some settings may suddenly change. I also heard a rumor that the game doesn't even 
 fully support 720p witch Microsoft promised every game would. By putting the game into the black 
 X360 demoversion the rumor was proven true, the game is actually rendered in a 1024x600 resolution, 
 but even though the game still looks awesome and some times comes close to photo-realistic graphics 
 (even on a SDTV) .
  The gameplay how ever is excellent, the handling and physics of the cars gives you a really enjoying 
 challenge, and the career mode is very fun and variable and the the 5 difficulty doesn't hurt either. 
 The soundtrack is also good and very hard to complain about.
  But the best feature of the game is the online mode, the Gotham TV feature works really well, and 
 that only 8 players can take part of race doens't really bother me in a driving game
  PGR3 isn't a perfect game, it has it bugs and it feels a little rushed, but most of it's problems 
 can be overlooked and PGR3 is a great way enjoying your first hours with the X360
  //ZimpanX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaolin77
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:07 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is a perfect example of what developers will bring to the Xbox 360. Quality HD graphics even 
 if you don't have a HD TV you can still appreciate the detailed scenery and beautiful cars. Each 
 car as you can imagine brings its own style of racing and handling..... for those who appreciate 
 true racing and not arcade-style racing this game is right for you. Looking at the type of options 
 such as walking through your garage and taking a closer look at your cars is pretty awesome. Gotham 
 TV is also pretty cool feature the allows you just to seat back and observe others drive these 
 cars to their limit.... you can use this as a great learning tool... this game is truly a must pick 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flandrien
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 6:37 am PT
Review:  I never got into the PGR or even Metropolis Street Racer craze before. The only game that I did 
 give a brief try was PGR2, but the whole formula of kudos just didn't catch on. I took Gran Turismo 
 over this any day.
  
  Enter PGR3 on Xbox 360, and it's a whole new world. The lush, detailed visuals make everything 
 worth your while, and overall I think the game has been made a lot more accessible than its predecessor. 
 The presentation is better, and it's just easier to get to grips with. For one thing you can start 
 with a beefy car right away, and the game mechanics seem to be a bit more forgiving, making you 
 less prone to losing control of your car and bouncing into objects. With there being less cars 
 to obtain, solo career mode is a bit shorter than what you could find in PGR2, but there still 
 is more than enough.
  
  What's so great is that every car looks, feels, and sounds unique. Bizarre obviously went through 
 considerable efforts to render everything the way it should. I also could mention the enormous 
 attention to detail in the cities, where you feel like you're driving through the real thing (first 
 time ever for a console racer) . And then there is the ever present crowd. That's right, no more 
 ghost cities for you. Speaking of this crowd, they react to how you're performing. Bump into them, 
 and they even duck away. It's little details like that that make PGR3 stand out... from the crowd.
 
  
  The kudos system is back, and it's as addictive as ever. I never knew that those tick, tick, tick 
 sounds could make such a difference, but they do. And with your performance always immediately 
 being compared with those of other players, there always is the urge to progress by giving the 
 track one more try in order to reach a higher position. More kudos = better medal = higher rank.
 
  
  Any quibbles? Yes. For all of the details they contain, the graphics certainly aren't perfect. 
 Running PGR3 on a HDTV screen makes it clear that the resolution is being upscaled to 720p by the 
 360, and that the game doesn't render the visuals at that rate itself. Sure, you can add all of 
 the anti-aliasing you want, but it's still visible. Also, pop-up may be absent during 99% of the 
 game, but the extended Nrburgring track does have some. To be honest, it looks like someone just 
 forgot to take care of it there, as opposed to the Xbox 360 not being able to handle the problem.
 
  
  The online component is a bit of a mixed bag for me. Sure, its implementation is excellent, as 
 with most Xbox Live games, and the online racing can be a lot of fun, provided you're part of the 
 right bunch. Overall my experience was one of too many players just out to run into you in order 
 to grab a better position, and who can blame them if the game mechanic lets them get away with 
 it? What a difference with the solo career mode. Bump into a cpu controlled car, and you'll notice 
 that it rarely has the desired effect. 
  
  I also found the solo career difficulty rate to be a bit inconsistent. In the same difficulty rate, 
 some races will prove to be a breeze, while others will leave you failing again and again. Some 
 of the early tracks would definitely have fitted better somewhere in the back of the roster, and 
 vice versa.
  
  In the end, all of these are small quibbles in what is the one racing game that you should grab 
 if you have an Xbox 360. For the time being, PGR3 rules supreme. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game has the most next gen graphics I've seen so far. The sound is absolutley incredible. 
 The wide variety of cars has something for everyone. Unlike , Gran Turismo 4, my previous favorite 
 racing game PGR3 places fun over simulation which makes it a refreshing new experience. Credits 
 are earned very easily. You can buy any car you want after an hour or two of playing. The cities 
 are amazing. Once you start playing you can't stop. The solo career doesn't last long. But the 
 online career can't be beaten. Online is completley lag free and a blast. As long as some A** doesn't 
 run you off the course. This game is a must buy for all 360 owners. The career mixes street races 
 and time trials which provides a great experience. Great game can't say enough about the graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WESTSIDECALI
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  omg this game is ah!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! this is 1 of the best 360 launch titiles period. 
 this simply has da best grapchis and da cars loos so freakin real. i dont even have a hdtv and 
 the graphics are amazing. this surly is a next game game and hope there will be plenty of games 
 like it. pgr3 is da best racing game dat has graced da gaming indusrty. so ridge racer , gran tursimo 
 u cazn say goodbye cuz a gen of racing is here ands its only on 360 
 
  
  i cant wait 4 da next pgr 2 come out i just hope it lives up 2 da hype dat the pgr3 did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthBlade100
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 Is Next Gen Racing! I'm saying this because there is no way this game sucks 
 nothing not even PGR or PGR2 can beat PGR3 no racing game could be better than PGR3 there is nothing 
 else better for a racing game than PGR3 it is not  
 none of that it's just perfect! The only thing that's not perfect about this game is it doesn't 
 have an Xbox version because my friend has one but he doesn't have an Xbox 360 system and i do 
 but i also have an Xbox 360 and this totally next gen racing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamer997
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:40 am PT
Review:  this game deserves  million medals for being 
 cool! i dont understand how people dont like this game. shiny cars, cool tracks, great music, and 
 sweet detail!
  
  this game is worth buying along with a 360. i dont no if u can get any better graphics. if you 
 like need for speed most wanted, this game is also for you.
  if you ever say yada yada yada at boring games this aint one of them because of what i said in 
 the first paragraph.
  
  just tell me better racing games and i will prove you wrong that ther is no better game than P. G. R3 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 7:04 am PT
Review:  I've had this game for only two days now, but the initial impressions "knocked my socks off." 
 
  
  The graphics are amazing, and the in-car view is too incredible for words. I play on a standard 
 def TV, but it still looks amazing (though you can stil see sime jaggies) .
  
  The gameplay is surprisingly different from the previous Project Gotham's (in my opinion) . It seems 
 more immersive this time around, and the motion blur effects add to the sense of speed that you're 
 racing at.
  
  This games multiplayer also shines. Amazing, lag-free matches compliment the entire experience. 
 If you have the Xbox Live service, then I highly recommend that you pick up this title, for it 
 is the BEST (in my opinion) racer on the Xbox 360 to date.
  
  Overall, whether you enjoy racing games or not, pick this one up. It will surely not disappoint.
 
  
  PS.-Having a surround sound system with a 12" subwoofer REALLY helps you enjoy the game to its 
 fullest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryhion
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:38 am PT
Review:  When I started playing I could not believe in what my eyes were seeing, this game was just amazing, 
 the gameplay is awesome, the cars are easy to control but of course it depends on car to car, the 
 sound is brilliant, the engine sounds are very good and similar to the real ones, visually speaking 
 the graphics are very good the road, the trees, the crowd, the car itself, and the cockpit vision 
 it makes you fell inside the car, so the game is worth the money but it has some negative things, 
 it can be very easy for skilled players and even in the high difficulties it can offer little challenge, 
 and you finish it very quickly, the only thing left to play is the on-line competitions and friendly 
 matches. But it is a great game and you won't regret if you buy it
  
  9.2 RCOMMENDED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xternal
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  But not that good, During gameplay it is Amazing, The graphics 10/10, gameplay aswell, Although, 
 the menu etc. is REALLY Confusing, It'd confuse anyone that is quite new towards the game, you 
 have to learn how to use it at first, but once your in the game it's awesome, you can see the reflections 
 of your bonet. You race head on head with a friend or someone else online (Xbox Live) You feel 
 as if your there, every bump leaves a dent in your car and leaves the glass of your lights in pieces 
 on the floor, i would say it's not a masterpiece, but almost, i would reccomend this highly if 
 you like need for speed.
  
  It's a brilliant racing game with powerful graphics that delivers an immense driving experience 
 like no other game, the time vs kudos is my personal favourite, so pressurising, and also, online, 
 this game will be one of the most frustrating games you will play, ever. the fact that people clip 
 your back end and smash you into walls in the middle of a race in which your doing good in is very 
 annoying, but in all that, it's a great game, for any racer, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazzx625
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:34 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for the Xbox 360 because it is the reason I wanted the system in 
 the first place. I was probably going to like this game even if it was nothing more than PGR2 with 
 prettier graphics. While it isn't much more than PGR2 with prettier graphics, it is a very solid 
 game and has the best visuals I've ever witnessed in a video game.
  
  I'd like to share a quick story, if I may... While waiting to pick up my 360 at midnight, the store 
 clerk had a demo system and we were all playing various games. PGR3 was being played when the clerk 
 came up and started talking about how much he hated the game and how Ridger Racer looked so much 
 better. Laughing to myself I disregarded him. Then he popped in Ridge Racer and I could see what 
 he meant by the graphics being 'better' but they were just shinier and less realistic. They didn't 
 look better, they were just flashier. PGR3's graphics are realistic to minute details and are simply 
 amazing in every sense... unless you are impressed with glossy arcadey graphics, I suppose.
  
  Anyways, back on track... I didn't want to review this game until I had plenty of time spent 
 in every mode offered and after all the house I've put into the game, I'm still not bored with 
 it. I beat the main mode in around 8 hours to get all Silver medals. There were only a few races 
 that I had to restart on this difficulty and the AI of other cars seemed very fair and consistent. 
 One thing that always bugs me about games is the driver AI is inconsistent to a flaw. Not the case 
 here, they act like real dirvers making real decisions. While they may not have hit as many walls 
 as a real player, they still felt more challanging than some of the other opponents I have faced.
 
  
  The main challanges are varied in several types, which I found to be very entertaining. There are 
 cone-dodging, races, eliminations, speed tests, time trials and probably even more that I'm forgetting. 
 Just when you're getting tired of one type of challange, the game shifts for you (pun intended) . 
 The variation added a lot to keep my interest and I was glad I wasn't just mindlessly completing 
 race after race. Like many other 360 games, I only wish there was more. Like I said earlier, I 
 was done in around 8 hours or so.
  
  Online play is a different ball-game entirely. While the challanges are straight forward, the other 
 people you'll face is either great or annoying. I've raced players that apologize if they ram you 
 and others that ram you from the start. The key to online racing is to not get spun out in the 
 first 10 seconds of racing and you'll probably win. There is only so much I could do in one sitting 
 because it's annoying that you lose races only because the other players just ram you for the hell 
 of it. When you play with friends though, the racing is much more rewarding and pleasant to handle.
 
  
  The controls are pretty basic, triggers act as throttle and brake. No surprises there. I was pleased, 
 however, to see that every car had a unique feel to it. In sim racers (like the GT series) each 
 car has a distinct feel to it, but somehow this was different. The games most powerful cars, a 
 Ferrari and the McLaren both have similar capabilities but have VERY different cornering abilities. 
 Depending on the courses curves, one might suit your style better. This is the case with all the 
 cars in the game. AWD cars don't drift very well and RWD cars either do or don't. The Ford GT handles 
 like no other car in the game, as it 'floats' through turns. It is very difficult to change cars 
 because in past games you would get used to the new feel quickly, but not anymore. It would take 
 me at LEAST one full race to get used to a different car if I didn't want to crash in every turn. 
 While this may seem frusterating, and it is on the surface, it is also very rewarding to know that 
 each car his it's own personality.
  
  There are only 80 cars in the game, which pales to the number of cars in past titles, but honestly... this 
 is like the all-star team of car selection. The first car I bought was a Saleen Mustang. Just to 
 give you an idea, that car is one of the 'worst' in the game. It becomes your need to own every 
 car in the game to see how they drive (and how nice they look in one of your many garages) . There 
 are also some cars that I never would have guessed would have been there. Some F1 looking cars 
 and some cars the looked like souped-up go-karts. Aside from the cars you start with (which I would 
 guess to be around 65+) you can also unlock more cars by getting Kudos points. Even after beating 
 everything on Silver, I still have about 10 cars to unlock...
  
  The soundtrack is diverse, ranging from rock to classical music. Great variation, and the default 
 volume is low enough so that the car engines are the real soundtrack. It is grealy amusing to race 
 to classical music too, it almost made me want to burn some of my dads CDs to my hard drive to 
 have some more on there. Despite the varation, I did find myself using the custom soundtrack feature 
 from time to time, but mostly just in online races.
  
  The achievement system is quite daunting for this game. You really have to work to unlock those 
 damn things. However, this is a good thing. It shows that you're serious about playing and you 
 mean business. Unlike King Kong where you can get all the achievements just by beating the game 
 once, this game requires lots more patience and diversity.
  
  Overall, if you're a sim-racing fan there is a lot here you'll enjoy. If you're an arcade racer, 
 it may be a little too sim-based for your tastes, but it's definitely worth a shot. There is enough 
 to keep anyone satisfyed until PGR4 comes out, especially if you have some buddies to race online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaRon_Fox
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:58 am PT
Review:  You know i'm tired of people coming on xbox sites trying to diss on xbox and xbox games. You say 
 you're not dogging xbox but then call it crapbox and then on top of that you have all playstation 
 consoles. Listen you should stick with the simple games like Mario cart or something that simple 
 people like yourself can handle. I remember when people would cry about how many buttons the xbox 
 would handle and then had the nerve to call themselves real gamers. Truth of the matter is you're 
 right its just your opinion thank god for that and you act as though playstation games have no 
 flaws when a true gamer like myself find flaw in them all the time countless because althought 
 they have a vast game library the quality not quanity of there games have been in question for 
 a while now. Just thought i'd let you know that an although the gaystation ooop sorry playstation 
 is a good game system even its games lack in gameplay as well as graphics so maybe PS3 will do 
 something the other two systems couldn't do but until then the Xbox 360 has the torch of glory 
 right now and it plays good on my 60 HDTV made by Hitachi so you have to play it on a good tv not 
 a crappy one (lol) Oh and by the way Project Gotham Racing is awesome and realistic controls but 
 most people who just like to crash into walls play Need for speed because its more childish gameplay 
 and arcade antitcs are more people speed who are not real gamers just pretend to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thornorway
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing returns and what a lovely good looking game it have become but thats what 
 you would expect from one of the first titles to get relased on the next generation console. 
 
  
  The game is very addictive just like the previous release, you ask yourself one more go, i need 
 to beat the track record or get the highest kudos ranking. The new thing that you basically can 
 start off with the fastest cars is for me a good twist rather than earning them like you had to 
 do in the previous Project Gotham Racing 2.
  
  You will play through the game pretty fast so it is a little short of town and their tracks if 
 you only play the single player but this game was created with xbox live and that shines right 
 through the game as when its loaded. But who would get this game anyways if they didnt have a xbox 
 live account ?
  
  The Gotham Live transmission is very smoothly done, its cool to jump onto a race and look as other 
 players race around the track and if you are lucky your game with your friends might be picked 
 to be shown on Gotham TV aswell. Your race can be watched by other gamers and that very cool i 
 think.
  
  If i have something negative to say about this title it must be that it lacks abit of cityies it 
 could easyally been more challenges to race on. Another thing i find negative is that when you 
 race on Live and the race is finished you only get the ranking list of the rest and not the time 
 difference between each of the competitors.
  
  This game is very good, i highly recommend it and who knows we might play in a race since im very 
 often on live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinion
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is one of the best looking games ever, and should be the flagship graphics for the Xbox 360. 
 First off, the in car view is perfect, and actually useable in racing situations. It has one of 
 the best physics engines that Ive ever seen, and the best part of all is, you get to drive an 
 Enzo.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 the gameplay feels like an arcade game to me, as you work the way through tournaments 
 earning money. However, what was really cool for this game to implement (like the ones before it) 
 is the kudos system, which you now find rewarding you by unlocking sick new rides. There are also 
 around 500+ cars to choose from, and I dont think that anyones gotten them all yet! (Maybe you 
 can be the first) Unfortunately, if you like adding nos to you car and tweaking your parts this 
 isnt the game for you.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  I gave graphics a 10 because they are beautiful. You actually feel like youre on the streets of 
 New York driving a Ferrari Enzo at speeds that no one could actually accomplish. The sun spots 
 on the screen are fantastic, as are the effects of the cars, and the cockpit. I loved this games 
 graphics more then quake 4 or doom 3, or any game for that matter.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  the sound in the game was also perfect, adding just the right amount of every car differently. 
 Dolby 5.1 is a must have for the 360, as of course is HDTV. Ive played a lot of racing games in 
 my day, and this is by far the most exact.
  
  Value: 9/10
  Its a must get for any 360 owner, as the graphics sound and gameplay roll with each other to make 
 the perfect game. Its not repetitive until at least 20+ hours of gameplay because all the different 
 courses and cars that you can choose from and of course because of Xbox Live. One great feature 
 about this game is Gotham TV where you can actually watch pros playing on their 360s at the same 
 time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ezuret
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 really brings everything together well. With a wide selection of cars and 
 graphics to go with the gameplay it's hard not to enjoy this on some level. I'm not some racing 
 sim nut, so I was very cautious about picking up PGR3. After investing some time in the game I 
 realized it's not like Gran Turismo 4 in the sense that it's so real it doesn't feel fun or fast. 
 Sometimes realism can kill the feelings you're going for.
  After learning some of the finer tricks of PGR3, like drifting without losing speed, the game becomes 
 pure fun. The in-car camera view with its great detail really helps make the game immersive and 
 brings together the game very well, I can't imagine racing in any other view. Most of the 360 launch 
 titles have their fair share of problems and drawbacks, but PGR3 seems to be one of the select 
 few that got away unscathed by this trend. The online is well done and the system for creating 
 custom matches makes it very easy to setup a race with friends or other people. There's little 
 to no lag and the system stands up to the added weight of someone online playing with you.
  If you're looking for a racing game that's well designed all around, that's not realistic to the 
 point of boredom and good fun, PGR3 will do you some good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BM2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2005 8:27 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately, I include myself under the list of occasional gamers. I spent most of my life without 
 a console, so I learned how live this way. My skills are limited as well. So, every time I used 
 to choose a game, I had first to ask myself whether or not I could play it. I simply didn't want 
 to let the poor thing all alone the whole time. Racing games were included in not-to-buy selection.
 
  It is true that I gave Burnout 3 a try, but just for the fun of hitting everyone around you.
 
  And it was when I "met" PGR3...
  My whole perspective about gaming has changed since then.
  It is not just a racing game, it is 
 a brand new concept of racing.
  It is so rich in details that one never gets tired of playing and/or watching it. Thank God there 
 is Gotham TV too!!! ;-)
  Even if it is not really your style of game, give it a try. It is worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prestoner77
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- it does a great job on having a smooth framerate while driving, great graphics wants 
 you to play more, good game online, fast paced.
  
  Graphics - Oustanding details can be seen on the cars and buildings, all are modeled, only problem 
 with the game to me is the lighting, some circuits are just so dim even tho it's daylight, I think 
 they didn't paid attention to the lighting that much, but other than that the graphics is pretty 
 nice. But having a HDTV is required to see it's beauty.
  
  Sound- you can have choices on what type of music you want to hear on the game whether Japanese 
 Rock, Alternative Rock or just Rock. The sound effects in the game I think could've had a better 
 quality, but it's still good.
  
  Value- $50 for a 360 game? well thats good enough since others are $60
  
  Overall- Solid Racing 
 Game, I recommend it for car racing fans, if you plan to get this game and you haven't got a 360. 
 Buy the bundle at Costco they have a good deal in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griem2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:24 am PT
Review:  Project Gothan Racing 3, what a game. So so good. I was a dedicated follower of the gran turismo 
 series, had everyone and they were awesome. This game however is just superb, there is no better 
 racing game out there and it will take a good game to beat this. I know the single player career 
 is kinda short but after discovering how good the online career was i have never went back to the 
 single player. theres just nothing better than racing people from all over the world and beating 
 them. and all the time moving up the world rankings. Its just supreme and will be hard to beat. 
 Girlfriend has got me NFS Most Wanted for christmas, hope its just as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eskouster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The last racing game I played were Super Mario Kart and F-Zero, so I was a bit out of it. And the 
 first few races of PGR3 were somewhat frustrating, especially on harder difficulty levels.
  
  After several trophies and tournaments though, I've grown to really appreciate the depth and 
 intensity of the game. Now that I know what I'm doing, every brake and turn is significant, challenging 
 and satisfying (when I get it right) . It really does feel like you're going 180 MPH through narrow 
 streets. 
  
  I also like how every car has its own quirks, so that you have to spend a while getting used to 
 it. And you grow to love your cars. 
  
  There's a ton of cars and a ton of tracks, plus a very nice quick match feature for online play. 
 The way it compares you to other players via Xbox Live is also fun.
  
  Only a few problems: Only 2-player split-screen play, and no option for multiple people on one 
 system playing online. 
  
  Sound: Tracks are alright, the engine sound is annoying though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pain_Chaud
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Good game, good graphics and good cars :) I have really like this game. The sensation of the speed 
 is soooo nice and when you bring the camera inside the car that amazing.... If you like racing 
 game and you have the xbox 360 this IS FOR YOU 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is good but shouldn't deserve a 8.8. I mean come on, sure the graphics are amazing and 
 so is the sound but besides that this game is nothing. I was about to sell this game but my bro 
 likes it so I gave it to him. The steering is too difficult for me and all the cars are pretty 
 cool but could be better in designs. I hate this game. Don't buy this game, it's a disgrace to 
 racing games. I would buy Burnout Revenge or Need for Speed Most Wanted. There is nothing and I 
 mean nothing interesting about this mistake for a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkdc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:23 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 definitely has next generation graphics. I highly doubt we will see leap year beyond those 
 graphics even on PS3. We will see improvements here and there on the graphical department, but 
 that's about it.. The gameplay is mostly the tried and true formula of the PGR series, which might 
 be good or bad depending on your taste. It might not be Forza, but this game has its own skills 
 to master. I liked the game, and would recommend racing game enthusiasts to at least rent it and 
 give it a sincere try. This is one of the top FIVE launch title for the Xbox 360. If it is to show 
 off the power of X360, this will definitely WOW your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: way_eXtreme
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  I was just at my local EB Games testing out PGR3, and I really regret playing this game! This game 
 is soo horribly unrealistic, and the graphics are nothing special.
  
  Graphics
  To start off, the graphics. The graphics are nothing special, the only thing that makes the game 
 look good is the relfections, everything else is nothing special. GT4 has better graphics than 
 PGR3, and everything in GT4 (cars, environments) looks better than PGR3. And the visuals weren't 
 lacking because of the TV either. The Xbox 360 was hooked up to a sexy, 42" Samsung Plasma HDTV 
 (I think it was a Samsung, i don't remeber) . The Xbox made the TV look bad.
  Graphics Rating: 7.8
  
  Gameplay
  Now the gameplay. LOL don't get me started on the gameplay. 
 can anyone spell, UNREALISTIC? This game is so horrible unrealsitic, it caused me to turn it off 
 and start playing "Nintendogs" on the DS they had on display right beside the X360. First thing, 
 the drifting. It looks like your car is driving on a road forzen over with dishwashing detergent 
 poured all over it (for those of you that don't know, dishwashing liquid is very slippery to drive 
 on, as well as ice, now combine those both, and thats how it looked like when you were drifting 
 on a perfectly dry road) . When you drift your car makes an instant 90 degree turn to the left or 
 right, and begins to slide around. If you try to steer back to center to straighten out your car, 
 your car starts drifting in the direction you turned (say your drifting rght, your comming to the 
 end of the turn, so you want to stop the drift so you turn left, the car turns around and starts 
 drifting left) . Also, when you see the AI cars drifting in front of you, they appear to slide around 
 the corners. The AI would slow down when they get to the turn, and then it looks likw they are 
 moving on a 45 degree angle when there car is still facing straight and then all of a sudden, the 
 car starts to drift. However, there are some fun aspects of this game. There is a good sense of 
 speed, and each car has its own advantages and disadvantages. They all handle differently, and 
 sound somewhat different. Also, the trakcs are also fun to drive on and well laid out.
  Gameplay Rating: 7.2
  
  Audio
  The audio is the only good aspect of this game. The commentary 
 was good, and upto speed. If you crashed into an enemy, the announcer would say something like 
 "wow! you got some serious road rage!" or something like that. I didn't reall hear any music while 
 i was driving so i can't comment on the music.
  Audio Rating: 8.5
  
  Conclusion
  So in conclusion, stay as far away as possible from this game if you want a serious racing game, 
 and are expecting superb graphics. None of those elemnts are in this game. If you enjoy unrealistic, 
 arcade-style racing games, then I suppose if you have money to waste, you might as well waste it 
 on PGR3.
  MY OVERALL RATING: 7.9
  
  Note:
  Im not a Sony fanboy or anything, even though I only own Playstations (PS1, PS2, PSP, and in the 
 future, PS3) , so don't say I gave this game a bad review because i hate MS or the CrapBox... I 
 mean the XBOX, my mistake. It's just how I feel about the game, it's my OPINION. Everyone has a 
 different opinion, so don't bash mine, and I won't say anything about yours. Some may like this 
 game, other may be on my side. Either way, this is just one mans opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  There's a huge amount to like about PGR3. A nice variety of cars and all with different handling. 
 There's a car for everyone here. The cars themselves look absolutely fantastic.
  
  However there's draw-in at times, expecially in 2 player mode, and that really shocked me. There's 
 fog effects to disguise the draw-in like some old playstation 1 game. There's just a whole lot 
 of fogging in daytime mode. Ouch. That's just not next-generation at all. What is it doing here?
 
  
  Reflections on the cars looks excellent but real-time shadowing is underwhelming by a lot. Road-side 
 trees aren't convincing-looking at all and certainly look like the trees do in any XBOX1 game. 
 Look at Rallisport Challenge for XBOX1 to see great lighting in a racing game.
  
  There's only 2 player split-screen which seems really odd.
  
  As a fan of PGR since the Dreamcast, 
 I know this is a fun well-made game. But it seems the game developers weren't able to use all the 
 cool power the 360 has to offer. 
  
  That's a shame. 
  
  This is not a 10 game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: White_death_77
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is far by the best racing game. Microsoft put alot of effort into it looks. When i first 
 saw it i thought it was gonna be just like the second one and you would have to race with the cars 
 you have, But i was wrong. This games makes PGR 2 look like **** the graphics are amazing, the 
 racing is better than before, and it's just plain fun. Im soo addicted to this game i couldn't 
 stop playing, the cars are amazing and NOW you have garages to store your car's and you Can get 
 as many as you want. My friend got it too and his dad started to play it because it is just SOOOO 
 DAMN FUN! If i were you, you should check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROSS__H
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:44 am PT
Review:  PGR3 was one of the first games in my 360 line up, alongside perfect dark zero. I wasnt sure whether 
 to believe the "hype" that surrounded the game and its release. When i started the first race i 
 was extremely impressed with the graphics, the small and stunning environomental details, the road 
 surface, and the cars themselves. But..... and its a big but..... (infact its a massive but) , the 
 second i changed it to in-car view i was blown away! amazing! It was intense, speeding off the 
 startring grid, sun glare in the windscreen, I glance to my right out the window and see a ferrarri 
 enzo battling alongside me, and that my wingmirror has been bent. The sound of my Lamborgini's 
 engine roaring from 2nd to 3rd gear bellowing through my speakers. The sound is amazing as well, 
 making full use of the dolby digital 5.1 technology. The whole experience is hard to describe. 
 I have read previous user reviews about PGR3 having disappointing grapics! I would have to disagree. 
 Another positive point is the selection of cars. Although limited to around 80, they are 80 of 
 the best in the world. So you start off in a brilliant car, and it only gets better! In conclusion 
 PGR3 is a strong launch title for the xbox 360 and impresses on almost every level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicjjc
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for Launch. If you liked PGR2 and thought Forza was a bit boring then 
 BUY this game. Trust me :)
  
  I Played this game at gamestation and I wanted to take the kiosk or how ever you call it home with 
 me lol !
  
  This is the best racing game ever made.
  
  I wonder if Test Drive Unlimited can beat it. In some areas yes like car colours lol but I really 
 doubt it will beat PGR3 !
  
  The graphics are fantastic.
  The gameplay is fantastic.
  The sound is fantastic.
  The cars are fantastic.
  
  BUY this game !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H2gtasarcua
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:17 am PT
Review:  Pgr3 is pretty amazing. The graphics are the best yet for a 360 game. The gameplay is just as good. 
 Its kinda strtaghtforward, u win tournaments and kudos and u strart going up in your ranking from 
 10 to 1 by winnign more and more championships. The Car Physics are superb felling like a real 
 car. The cars in the game are amazing. Even though theres only 80 or something of em thats one 
 hell of a 80 if u ask me. They got ferraris, mclarens, lambos and other kinds that represent really 
 fast cars not any slow stuff. The online play is pretty good and is pretty even cuz thsy match 
 the car u slected with a similar kinda of car so u dont go up against a guy who will kill u in 
 the race. The only thing that i HATE in pgr3 is where in the online mode people just ram in the 
 back of u and then u fishtail into the wall probably losing the race indefiently. If anybody that 
 does that in the online races and yur reading this STOP yur really annoying and it pisses alot 
 of people off. Well anyways pgr3 is fantstic and if yur a racing fan and u dont have the 360 this 
 a really good reason to get one or if u have a 360 and dont have pgr 3 go get it nowwww! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrsmobile
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I don't play many (ok, any) racing games, but I wanted to get something that my kids could play, 
 and maybe get my wife to give it a shot as well. 
  
  The controls of the game felt so sloppy it was hard to believe. Oversteer was too upredictable, 
 causing the rear end of the car to slide everywhere, completely losing control. The shifting was 
 also hard to get the hang of, couldn't tell if the car was an automatic or manual.
  
  The trailer for the game showed high resolution shadowing/reflecting, implying an immersive experience. 
 The trial tracks and things that i tried looked like it was on a 16-bit console rather than the 
 next generation 360
  
  I really wished that i had rented this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXsKiTzOidXX
Rating: 4.2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:14 am PT
Review:  When did it become more fun to run around a bunch of cones then line up with some cars... Rewarding 
 poor driving with"kudos" and punishing you if you actully know how a corner should be taken. And 
 the theres the cheap ass AI that can run into you as much as it wants without lossing a single 
 rpm and if you even touch something your off in spin land. And then theres the invisable puddels 
 and magnetic walls that come out from hiding on the last lap. Theres more crap I could go on about, 
 but Ill leave it to you to make up your own mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsunami_pt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Let's face it: PGR2 is a far better game then this. Despite the technological advances, the fact 
 is that 80 cars, many of them simple variations (like the 3 versions of the ford mustang, and the 
 various versions of the Lamborghini Diablo, etc.) are just too few for this game to match PGR2. 
 And why the hell there are no Porches in the game? Just RUFs? Those aren't real Porches to me... 
 This is starting to look like Grand Turismo (Hey! We have 200 cars on this game! I mean... like 
 50 of them are Skylines and Lancers... but we have 200 cars!) ...
  
  Other thing that PGR2 captivates me more then PGR3 is the game structure. I liked the 13 (if I'm 
 not mistaken) classes in PGR2. And I liked the fact that I had to get kudos tokens to buy cars, 
 rather then winning money from winning medals. I mean, I can win a race without a single kudo, 
 and I can get money from it to buy any car I want, since money is cumulative!
  
  But apart from that, is on the track that this game really shines...
  
  The graphics are... 
 gorgeous. The inside view of the car is really amazing, and driving in it is not that hard. I can 
 drive as well wih the inside the car view as the outside view. And the fun that one can have from 
 a really nice race is unprecedent in the gaming history. Just amazing.
  
  The sound is quite good also. Engine sounds are great, and I adore the kudos sound (click! click! 
 click!) . Is like listening to a casino slot machine jackpot! Despite all this, I consider the soundtrack 
 to be a little weak... but, we shouldn't discuss tastes, right? Oh! And I find it a flaw to have 
 eliminated the local radios too. Ok, maybe we didn't give a damn to what the radios would talk 
 about, but that was a very nice feature.
  
  About Gotham TV, the new feacture... I'm not going to comment on it, nor the online gameplay, since 
 I'm without internet connection at home, and I will be that way untill next year (I'm kind of stressing 
 out from WoW abstinence sindrome...)
  
  In conclusion, I consider this to be a very good game, with an allmost perfect playability, but 
 with a weak structure. Some may say that this is PGR 2 on steroids. I don't agree. If they would 
 just remade PGR2 with such graphics and the fabulous inside-the-car view, this game would have 
 +9 rating. But with this structure, this game is shorter, thus, this rating. But dont get me wrong! 
 This is indeed a very good game! And don't forget that the first games for new sistems are always 
 a little "weak", so bring it out more, Xbox 360... We're loving it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaggi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  The game is just an amazing looking game. The images are realistic as well as the actions of the 
 people on the side lines watching you race. It is pretty funny how you slam into the railings and 
 the people get jolted a bit. 
  
  I am not an expert with driving games and would have liked a tutorial or learning mode to learn 
 how to use the e-brake and some of the other common moves to get your through the track with minimal 
 rubbing. It would also be cool to learn how to do some of the tricks that get you those kudo points.
 
  
  Overall I love the game even though I drive like I had a 12 pack of beer.
  
  Happy Racing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangeonxbox
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:42 am PT
Review:  PGR3 is fantastic debut for the new Xbox. However, that is on the understanding you are running 
 it on a HDTV. On standard sets, it looks more like PGR2.5
  
  The handling is more lifelike (if you havn't driven an exotic, they do raise up and wobble at the 
 front like in PGR3) . There are some minor flies in the ointment; there are rumours the game renders 
 internally at slightly less than 720p. So what? you may say, and looking at the cities you wont 
 notice, but it is fair to say that the Zonda car looks more jaggy than the original on PGR2. Thats 
 not so good. Also, we have paid a big price for these new intense visuals. There are far less cars 
 and cities than in the previous game. At the moment everyone is still too drunk on HDTV gaming 
 to notice, but give it a month or two, and they will.....
  
  The next PGR game needs to sort the car jaggies out, and get a lot more vehicles and locations 
 packed in. AT the moment the series is level, having swapped cars and cites for snazzier art. We 
 need to see the bar raised, Bizarre! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExquisiteGamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Really Good Game Control Is Where PGR 3 Excels. The Overall Feel Of Each Car Has Great 
 Handeling But Still Manages To Bring A Good Sense Of Speed. Damage Modeling Is Rather Dull , With 
 Just Minor Hood Crunches, Mirror Damage And Scuff Marks That No Effect On Your Cars Performance 
 In Any Way. The Opponent AI Is Very Challenging And Delivers Intense Wheel To Wheel Racing, But 
 Would Really Takeoff If There Were More Cars On The Track. The Best Feature In This Game Is The 
 In Car Racing View. Like No Other Game Before You Have the Ability To Look Around The Inside Of 
 You Car When Your Racing, This Is Really Really Fun And Truly A Sight To Behold. 
  
  Graphics: Very Sharp, The Inside Design Of Each Car Looks Just Like The Real Thing, Right Down 
 To The Stering Wheels, Speedometers, Dash And Even Cd Players. Outside The Cars Look Good But Could 
 Use Some Better Lighting Effects During The Races. Environments Are A Hit And Miss, With Some Tracks 
 Looking Fanstastic And Others Not Looking As Clean.
  
  Sound: Powerful And Realistic Engine Noise, Tire Sqeels, And Crashes Are Some Of The Best Sounds 
 I Have Heard In A Racing Game. 
  
  Value: With A Short Career Mode And No True Upgrades To The Cars PGR 3 Doesnt't Go Along Way In 
 The Depth Department. The Kudos System Is Still In Effect But Is Starting To Get That Old And Outdated 
 Feel To It, But Still Manages To Get the Job Done. There Are About 80 Cars In The Game; Mustang, 
 Ferrari, Mclaren, Corvette, Viper, Saleen Mercedes, Lotus, And Shelby Are Just Some Of The Cars 
 Featured, About 40 Cars In The Game Are Proto-Types And You Probably Have Never Heard Or Seen Any 
 Of Them.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Overall PGR 3 Has That Next Gen Feel To It, With Top notch Visuals, Great Control 
 And A In Car View That Is Just Awesome And An Expierience You Must Try. Racing Fans Will Get A 
 Kick Out Of This One For Awhile, But May Get Bored Fast Due To The Underachieving Career Mode, 
 And Minimum Upgrades And Features 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i-Use-Shampoo
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is a fantastic game for those who dont mind the some old crapp with a new paint job everytime 
 somebody puts out a racing game. I personally want to see more in depth in the cars themselves 
 rather than the racing. I need a game where every individual part has to be tuned and installed 
 some not all cars ofthe same make and model are equivillant. my needs for a racing game will probably 
 never be met in the near future. 
  
  in essence PGR3 is just another sugar coated pile of crapp. Sure you're in awe at the new shiny 
 graphics and physics simulations but if you play the game for more than an hour you begin to realize 
 that its just lacking the passion that a good racing game needs. not worth the wait. and im glad 
 that i experienced this mundane game on a system that i didnt pay for. i wont be buying a 360 and 
 my choice is influenced a lot in my dissapointment from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiseGAMEreaper
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:15 pm PT
Review:  i gotta say it even when i was opening the game i had an adreniline rush, you should have seen me 
 playing the game. PGR3 is a must have its amazing so many more cars to choose from. new sppeds and 
 tracks and u cannot forget those graphics they just blow you away. if uve got a spare 40 laying 
 around then grab it and run yea you herd me run to the nearest place you can buy PGR3 (project 
 gotham racing 3) and shove it into your xbox 360 and start playing. if you havnt got the game yet 
 then y r u reading this review go and get it. (its that good) . at the start line just smoke your 
 freinds and fly across the track in your TVR. like i said this game is an absolute must have for 
 your 360. 
  thank you for reading my review =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: telephones
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 4:36 am PT
Review:  Ok, I brought this game on launch along with PDZ and its great
  
  Lets start with the menus. Whilst being quite a complicated set-up they are quite easy to navigate 
 around.
  Single player races are quite hard but the good thing is the game offers different difficulty settings 
 for each race and with a different amount of cash earnt for each level.
  The online is great too, but it is quite hard to learn how to join a game at fist because the game 
 joins itself to the race and there is no way of telling you are connected to the actual gameor 
 just the lobby.
  When you are in the Game, Graphics are crisp and the reflections on the cars are a very nice touch. 
 The anti alliasing means there are no jaggies. This is the case on a standard TV. And on a High 
 Def you can expect even more!
  I am very happy with this game and even though it is a serious racing game compared to burnout 
 and full auto. There are some elements, which give it more of a playback value such as cone and 
 speed challenges.
  I have experienced no freezes with this game. Compared to on PDZ, which has frozen twice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxmasta1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 10:55 pm PT
Review:  one of the best ssss sss ssss sss ss sssss ssss s ssssss ssssss s ss sss ss s sss s ssss ssss s 
 s ss sss sss sss sssssssss ssssssss ss sss ss ss s s ss sss sss ad aldkma da askljgd as; l askfm 
 asmd flsadm fasldf ml; sadm flasdm flmsdalf k; asd fksdj af; lsdafj as; dfl jkasdl; f jasl; d fja; lsfdj 
 ;lasj f; lsak jdf; lkjasl; dfja; sljl; sdaj l; fa jsdl; fl l; j jkvbkk kk kk k kk k kk k kk k kk k kk 
 k k kk kk k kk k k k jlf jsdaf jj jj jj jj j jj j jj j jj jj j jj j jj j jj jj j j jj jj jj j jj 
 j jj j jj j j jj j jj j jj jj j jj j jj j jj jk k k kk k kk k kk kk kk k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Who would of thunk it a racing sim the 360's flag ship and compared to Mario 64... Guess what its 
 true.
  This game is awsome now I m no huge fan of racing games but i sat in gamestop from 3 till way after 
 it closed (i have connections) playing this game. It is perfect from its beautful cars and cockpit 
 to the sound of the cars purring it is amazing. Its almost like being in thoes $130,000 cars ALMOST 
 but its pretty darn good go to your local gamestop/eb games and pick it up  
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimatesamuri
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  of all the racing games that i have seen, this one looks the most intuitively designed and well 
 thought out. i just hope that this game preforms as they are saying it does. i hope that the on-line 
 is good as it is displayed, because after all how many of you hate it when a game lags on-line. 
 THe bad part is that only 8 people can race online at once, but its okay because then the game 
 won't lag as much with less players. i think that this is going to be one of the hottest racing 
 games that people will think of when they get a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllMightyBruce
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Amazing is all I have to say about this game. You would think that with the other PGR games that 
 there wasn't that much room for improvement. But there obviously was when you compare this to the 
 last Project Gotham, there are dramatic improvements. The in-car view is an amazing addition to 
 the game. The pure sense of speed that you feel when you're racing in that view is second to none. 
 If you had a big enough tv, you could honestly swear that you were driving the car yourself. The 
 interior of the cars, as far as I know, look almost exactly like the real cars. In most games that 
 have an in car view all the interiors of the cars look the same. 
  The exterior looks just as good as the inside. The cars are all beautifully detailed. Paint, body 
 styling, lights even the brakes look beautiful. The tracks are amazing. With all the spectators 
 and environmental features it looks simply amazing. There are even the little product placement 
 adds like driving past a McDonalds when you're speeding down a straight in Las Vegas at 200 MPH. 
 All in all, Gran Tourismo has some work to do for its next title if it wants to catch this bombshell. 
 I've always been a die-hard fan of GT... but I think that this game surpasses Gran Tourismo in all 
 categories but one; car selection. That is the only thing holding this game back from being perfect. 
 If it had the selection that GT does it would be unbeatable. But, it does have the whole super 
 car thing that GT was missing.
  All in all, this is a next-gen game that you can not pass up. If you only get one racing game for 
 the 360 this holiday season, get this one. RR nothing, this game has set the bar very high for 
 any racing game to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbartl00
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  I'd have to say that what sets this game apart from previous racing games is the graphics and the 
 multiplayer. It's otherwise pretty standard 'reality' racing. 
  
  I enjoy arcade racers a bit more, so the serious driving style can tend to frustrate me at times, 
 but you get to select your difficulty before every race and I have been able to adjust it down 
 to my level. 
  
  On HDTV, the graphics are top-notch and smooth. Cockpit mode is fantastic.. and the enviroments 
 are great. The cars are near-photo realistic. Sometimes I've just stopped in the middle of a race 
 just to look around.
  
  The multiplayer on XBL is fantastic... and greatly improves the replayability of this game long 
 after the single player has run its course. Which I might add is somewhat short for a racing title.
 
  
  Gran Turismo is still probably THE racing game for the serious realist. But this is definitely 
 the best on the 360, and a close second overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl4ckAdDer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is one if not the best racing ever to come out. The graphics are 
  jawdropping, especially if you play the game driving from 1st person "in car"
  view. Gameplay 
 is just as great easy to get used to and have loads of fun. 
  Gotham TV is a great feature in PGR3. The only thing i disliked about it was it wasn't hard enough 
 unless you played the hardest difficulty. Steel and Bronze and even Silver are much alike. The 
 multiplayer is very amusing, you trying to get passed your friends, crashing each other into the 
 walls, making those desicive turns that will mostimes determine if you win 
  or not, but comebacks are always the most exciting and adds to the fun of.
  Multiplayer is solid 
 
  
  overall this game is extremelly fun and enjoyable!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcarlisle
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 is an undeniably good racing game. In my opinion, the PGR series as a whole has been underrated 
 since its beginning. However, it feels exactly like an XBOX game. granted, a high-def XBOX game 
 with nicer lighting effects, but in essence theres nothing truly new, truly "next-gen" about it.
 
  The racing is solid, the car choices are varied, and the courses are amazing, making for a great 
 racing game. I just wish it were... better. remember that rush from playing the first games on 
 the current-gen systems? there were so many new options, such astounding new graphics, heck i was 
 even amazed by the gamecube's shiny new games, especially the quirky and the new, like Super Monkey 
 Ball. So far, the 360 just isnt doing it for me. It just feels like a high-def XBOX (with a nuclear 
 reactor coming out of the back) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostbite90
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Nethack: Falcon's Eye Expansion Pack
  
  I just want to say that I really did enjoy playing Nethack a lot. It's a great game with tons to 
 offer, but in the end it really suffers from a lack of animation and quality music.
  
  The Falcon's Eye expansion offers VGA graphics which really contribute to the overall experience, 
 but the MIDI music is poorly made and I think Jaakko Peltonen, the developer of this expansion, 
 really could have done better. This being said, it's what one can expect from a free game.
  
  The high point of Nethack is its gameplay. From the innovative pet features to the hours of 
 fun to be had in the randomly generated dungeons trying to discover the secrets of the game by 
 trial and error. For some, the complexity of the game will be discouragingly difficult, but those 
 who stick it out will find plenty of enjoyment from this very replayable gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 30, 2005 9:37 am PT
Review:  I've played this game now for a week and I'm not convinced this is a must have game. The graphics 
 are beautiful, but the game play is lack luster. The fact you can race some of the most desirable 
 cars in the world helps this game a great deal. But I'm looking for a racing game to also have 
 more then 6 cars racing at a time. That is also the same problem I have with the Gran Turismo series. 
 I thought with the better power of the X Box 360 that there would be no problem with having 30+ 
 cars racing at the same time. The game is a miss for me. Make me feel the road! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bayez
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 2:47 am PT
Review:  Its certainly the best racing game in the pgr series yet and proberly the best racer ever for online 
 and multi-player games, when your playing it its just like no other games the feel you get from 
 the car is amazing and the sound of the cars as you pass them or as they go past you is just amazing 
 the ferrari's screaming past and ford GT's that just have a deep verbal noise, if you buy this 
 game you will not be dissapointed especially online. i have been a big fan of the pgr series so 
 far and i dont think i will be giving it up soon, even with GT5 coming out next year, ive seen 
 the videos but its not going to look like that, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsim1733
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the only Xbox 360 game i will own til xmas and i have no problem playing it all the time. 
 Its just that good. Listen to the stuttering man who reviewed this on gamespot (no offense) , it 
 is the best racing game i have ever played by far, including Gran Turismo 4 and 3, Forza and Project 
 Gotham 1 and 2. Dont listen to the people who say the graphica are bad when i play it on a non-hd 
 tv and they are simply stunning. Besides what more can you want than going 200+ on the brooklyn 
 Bridge in a enzo just about to spin out a Mclaren while listening to classical Mozart. I challenge 
 you to find a better racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TYSON02
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The game is very exciting. I have not stopped playing it yet. The graphics are really nice. The 
 sounds of the vehicle changes when you move around the car like in real life. The driving experience 
 is so close to acutal live driving. I just wish I could tune the cars engine a bit, and I wish 
 that you could see more damage to the vehicles. But the graphics are amazing. I really think that 
 anyone who is a true race car fan will enjoy this game. It is not need for speed, because it is 
 based on a totally different type of car racing, but it is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnmetcalf
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  You are probably confused by what the title of my review means but I'll get to that later. PGR 
 3 is a very polished launch title that will probably go down as one of the 360's greatest games 
 of all time.
  
  The game play alone makes this game a must buy all of the different challenges in the career mode 
 just keeps me wanting to move on to the next one. The career mode seems a little short but if you 
 play the way I do by starting out on easy or medum and working your way up to more difficult challenges 
 you will find that there will be many hours of game play to be had. The online mode is where this 
 game really shines. I was amazed at how smooth the online play was. The frame rate is beautiful 
 and the challenge is out of this world. Here is where I get to explain the reasoning behind my 
 title. You have two levels of competitors; those who have played the game from PGR1 and two and 
 now three and those who are not used to the game mechanics and prefer to play demolition derby. 
 Currently I'm trying to transition from the bottom to the top but end up getting creamed by the 
 guy who thinks its funny to come into the corners way too fast and just spin me around and thus 
 get me way behind. Thus making me want to fling my controller against the wall wish I could reach 
 out and strangle someone but I get ahold of myself and keep trying because I can't seem to put 
 this game down. Sorry for the moment of ranting.
  
  Graphically the game is beautiful. The car models are very realistic and keep me thinking how much 
 better can game consoles become. The inside the car camera angle is very detailed and different 
 for each type of car you drive. The scenery is very lifelike especially the city scapes. I was 
 driving one course and I was able to see a McDonald's sign and other businesses as I speed by. 
 The only downside graphically is that there is no damage modeling. You hit something and your car 
 still looks showroom new.
  
  The cars sound very realistic. One of the coolest features that may go under appreciated when it 
 comes to sound is your car sounds differnent depending on what camera view you use. If you are 
 inside the car the engine is quieter than if you have a view that is outside the car. I always 
 say it's the little things that make a good game great.
  
  Another really cool feature of the game is Gotham TV. When you are tired of racing sit back and 
 watch everyone else race. Of course it will be rare for me to use this but it's nice to have around 
 just incase.
  
  Overall, if you put all aspects of the game together you will find that this game will keep you 
 entertained, amazed and angry for hours on end. Hopefully with any any luck you will have as much 
 fun as I am. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiggyRob44
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  Bottom line buy this game if you have Xbox live as this is where the fun is at.
  
  If you own PGR or PGR2 than the single player is what you have come to expect. Better graphics, 
 better sound, more forgiving Kudo's system and repetitive circuits to achieve your next trophy.
 
  
  Like I said, online is where it's at, as this is where the fun begins and before you know it it's 
 two oclock in the morning and your still sayingJUST ONE MORE RACE"!
  
  I've had it for about a week now and it's addictive to the point of asking myself if I should play 
 it or not for the fear of being online for hours!
  
  Buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkblush1992
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:19 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best racing game for the new x box 360. I mean the graphics are beautiful. The 
 cars are sleek and sexy. The fun of the game is exelent. I mean BROVO! BROVO! Good job. the game 
 is amazing, the music is good. The enviroment is great, and the gamplay, is easy to learn. Me and 
 my cousins play this game and its hot like fire. As much as i enjoyed the game i hope that many 
 people enjoy the game too. I mean the X box 360 has alot to offer with the games online fourms, 
 and quality.
  I give this game a 9.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Large_Soda
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:04 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the best racing game for the Xbox 360 and should be chosen over Need 
 for Speed Most Wanted, and Ridge Racer 6 without hesitation.
  
  Graphically this game is a marvel to behold, with beautifully rendered cars and finely detailed 
 courses. For the first time in videogames I can say "photo-realistic" and mean it with all sincerity.
 
  
  The audio for Gotham is very good as well with, accurate engine sounds and tire squeels. The music 
 in the game is terrific as well, with a broad mix of styles, from rock to classical. It definately 
 helps the mood.
  
  One of the aspects I thought would end up useless, in fact turned out to be my favorite feature. 
 The photo mode is a real blast to mess with. It the advanced options let you configure the shutter 
 speed, aperture and focus of the camera. It helps you create some very nice looking photographs 
 and is a fun thing to do when not racing.
  
  All in all Project Gotham Racing 3 is tight racer with astounding visuals and marvelous sound. 
 A must have for racing fans and 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Im not much of a racing fan but, this game is freaking awsome!!! I love the Gotham TV thing its 
 pretty cool watching the good people, thats pretty much how i learned how to play i sucked at first 
 but i watched the gotham cam and i learned all the stuff like drifting and all that stuff. The 
 online is ok but its hard to get in a good room, the offline is killer and fun. Buy it even if 
 you hate racing games it really fun and the graphics look real. but its kinda hard to get used 
 to onee car cause your constantly changing and buying new ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:37 pm PT
Review:  You'll find yourself saying that statement over, and over again as the clock ticks away into the 
 early morning hours. There really isn't much more that can be said about PGR3 outside of whats 
 already been stated: The graphics and sound are incredible, gameplay is a blast. There is seriously 
 little to complain about. Fans of PGR will feel at home as far as this sequel goes, but you're 
 still going to be set back as far as the sheer beauty of PGR3's graphical presentation.
  After searching for hours, only one feature (well, lack thereof) was found wanting, and that was 
 the lack of a split-screen multiplayer component. It would have been nice to have seen something 
 similar to Halo., mixing split screen and xbox-live, but you can't have everything.
  
  That being said this is a truly solid experience for the Xbox 360. This easily defines the power 
 of this console, and gives an idea of just what is in store for the future of console gaming: Non-stop 
 fun at every turn. The online component is flawless and perfectly done. Both the single and multiplayer 
 portion of the game coincide, so again, the execution is perfect. Earn some money for new cars 
 (all of which look amazing) online and offline, and never stop having fun.
  
  Truly a definer of its genre, you'll find yourself saying, "Just... one... more... race!" as you watch 
 the sun come up in the morning and should have been asleep hours before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: th316
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  As soon as the game loads you can tell that the graphics are going to be fantastic. There is a 
 large selection of cars to choose from and a lot of detail was put into each vehicle. You won't 
 find much that is generic in this game. The sound is also very crisp, clear, and realistic. That 
 is pretty much the upsides to this game. Game play is fairly standard and this is a straight driving 
 simulator. There is really no point to the money you earn in the game and the purchasing of cars 
 is a little irritating. No matter what car you put on the track you are always matched up fairly 
 equally, just give me the cars after I win a race or cup and save the drama. The kudos keep the 
 game interesting, but there is a huge gap between the silver and gold levels. Basically you either 
 dominate this game or you don't. As far as I've gotten in the game it allows you to open up the 
 different tracks at the silver medal level, which has served to keep me playing thus far. There 
 is nothing that is overly spectacular about the game and it is no more fun than any other driving 
 simulator of quality. The price versus fun would have made this game a rental had I not gotten 
 it in a package deal with the system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid_16
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 12:38 pm PT
Review:  The Project Gotham series is quite a good one. PGR3 strays from its roots by being more realistic 
 and having only the fastest cars. I'm not saying this is a bad thing! Sure, the gameplay is different, 
 but it is good and I truly enjoy it. It can get repetitive in tournaments though because your doing 
 the same racing over and over, but the other challenges (cone, drift, overtake, etc.) compensate 
 for this. Even if you don't like the racing, especially against the AI, you can go ONLINE and do 
 an ONLIN CAREER. How sweet is that? earning some credits by pwning your friend with your Ferrari. 
 The graphics and sond are simply amazing. I've never seen anything quite so awesome. They even 
 look good on a non high-def Televsion. There is so much to do in this game, especially with the 
 route creator, collecting sweet cars, and geometry wars demos. I have to say this game should at 
 least be a nine, so I give it one higher - 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pcfitness1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  I didn't expect this game to be that much better than pgr2 but it is. The graphics, sound, features, 
 game play, multiplayer etc. It all rocks and will give any race car enthusiast hours and hours 
 of fun. Aside of this being a great game it does have some things to work out in my humble opinion. 
 When you are at the starting line and reving the engine you will hear cracks and sputtering. Besides 
 that it crashes my 360 console whenever I leave to go to the dashboard or even my personal settings. 
 Otherwise this really is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracolich666
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  GamePlay: 10
  
  This game is a lot easier to get the handle of as the Gran Turismo series is, and ive beat all 
 4 GTs. Drifting hands down is the best thing about this game, If you want to get good with drifting 
 use the 750HP Ferrari F50GT. As for the tracks, very wide variety of technical and easy turns. 
 You need to learn when to brake into turns, and when to stomp on the gas exiting them. The fact 
 you can upgrade cars kinda pissed me off, but then again they have all fast cars, no POS hondas 
 here! I give it a Just Right / Hard learning curve, as the GT series is a Very Hard learning curve.
 
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  The HDR in some areas is breath taking, one of my die-hard sony friends was speechless when he 
 saw the lighting. And remember this is only a 720p game (1280x720) , and even on a composite cable 
 (640x480) this game still looks great! I just upgraded to S-Video cables and the image is a lot 
 sharper and smoother in picture, not going to be a huge jump but if your TV has S-Video i recomend 
 it.
  
  Sound: 9.0
  
  The sound in general is amazing, but the soundtracks suck IMHO. Their is no real metal, i want 
 Judas priest and maybe even Opeth on the soundtrack. The only thing i put in my 6 disk cd changer 
 is Dark or reg Electrica, but if ppl are fans of Hip-hop and stand type Nu-Metal then you will 
 like the other tracks. Overall the music quality is amazing, the 32-bit sound card does NOT disapoint!
 
  
  Overall: 9.5
  
  Being as this is the BEST launch racer EVER, its value is great. The gameplay is amazing and the 
 price is unreal, i was expecting to pay $59.99 for this title. If anyone likes REAL cars, this 
 is the game for you. People can keep bringing up the GT series, but then again PGR3 destroys their 
 theories. The drifting is what makes this game so fun, and the fact i can drive pretty much every 
 good ferrari made, from the Testarossa to the 660HP enzo. This game is worth every penny, if you 
 liked any of the Gran Turismo series, you will fall in love with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbxg32000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is the best looking console racer to date. This is my first, and at the 
 moment; my only Xbox 360 game. When I first popped this game into my 360 and plugged in the component 
 cables to my 24'' Sony WEGA (which is NOT an HDTV, but the T. V. itself probably displays the best 
 for SDTV's) , I was amazed at the mere detail put into the game. Starting from the sound of the 
 car revving, to the reflections on the side-view mirrors, to the whole motion-blur aspect. The 
 game blew me away, and to think; that these games barely scratch the surface of the Xbox 360's 
 potential.
  
  The amount of detail put into buildings, lighting, spectators, and just the overall minor details 
 such as dust specks on your windshield -- add up to a remarkable experience unlike any other. The 
 single player is very addictive, and the choice of cars can only make your mouth water. Once you 
 hop into a Ferrari Enzo and go online however, the experience only gets better. Blazing past a 
 person while saying Hi insertnamehere. Bye insertnamehere. is an experience that just makes you 
 feel like you're really driving the monster on your screen.
  
  Overall, this game is just spectacular. Everything from the graphics, to the awesome, genuine sounds 
 of the cars, to the physics of the cars -- all add up to a game unlike any other. The game itself 
 sells at retail for $49.99, which makes the game incredibly valuable. If you are getting an Xbox 
 360, or already have one, do not miss out on this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotyme
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first two PGR's and liked those then you'll love this one.
  The first thing you'll notice is how great the cars look (well for me anyway) .
  Another thing 
 I noticed was the car types. While in the last PGR you had sucky vehicles live mini's and such, 
 this one is packing SUPERCARS! (no that is not a typo) . What makes these cars so super is the sense 
 of both beauty and speed. I'm talkiing cars that go 160mph and higher! So supersexy, superspeed, 
 and superprices. I could've gave this a 10 but as with PDZ it still feels like it's missing somthing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PHUNTER11111111
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:02 pm PT
Review:  first of all, this game is absolutly b-e-a-utifuel, i dont even hav an HDTV. it really is the details 
 that count and PGR3 got em. the sound, engines sound great. the nusic tracks offer alot of genres, 
 even classical. i just put tracks on from my ipod, wich is incredibly simple, the 360 even charges 
 the ipod! the gameplay is good w/ good a. i. no matter wat difficulty, put anyone should start on 
 hard, cus its the most fun. the camera angles work, especially the in car views, simply amazing. 
 overall, if u get a 360, u should consider this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nowitzki06
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  If you own an X-Box 360 counsole and you do not own PGR3 you are missing out on what a good nbext 
 gen game is really like. Before i played any game on xbox 360 Call of Duty 2 was my favorite. But 
 now after a few days of playing the games PGR3 is my favorite game. The graphics are AMAZING! and 
 theres so much to do in the game both online and offline. The gotham TV you might think is boring 
 but when you watch some of the best in the world you can really get a lot of tips on how to go 
 into turns and everything. Buy This game today if you own an xbox 360 counsole you wont regret. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker1044
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 8:12 am PT
Review:  i had lots of fun playing this game i dont know why they gave the graphics on this game a 9 it 
 should be a 10 and gamespot didnt give it a correct score it should be an editors pick. they need 
 to quit nitpicking soo much cause now that video games are getting more popular since the biginning 
 of the console wars back in 2001 or even 2000 the reviews of games have gone down drastically and 
 thats not to say the games a great if they get a 8.8 if they were to review the games that got 
 editors picks in 2001 they wouldnt even recieve the same score now. they would nit-pick them to 
 death they need to go back and not expect the graphics to look like we are on screen with it they 
 are just games the graphics are gonna be as good as they are or just little better on these games. 
 and the gameplay is great fun and fast. this a freat game that the review didnt give it justice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aegrmg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 25, 2005 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I almost wish I just didn't buy a 6800 Invidia. The graphics are unbelievable. I've only just started 
 the career mode and I'm having good luck with the Nissan Skyline. It seems to be a little more 
 difficult than PGR2 but at the same time easy to learn. It has a good mix of realism and simulator. 
 Hopping on to Gotham TV and checking out live races is just icing on the cake. If your looking 
 for a good clean race find me online Rick17hj. If your looking for one racing title, make it this 
 one. Download the trailers on Xbox Live and see for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dheuermann
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 7:11 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to get into the incredible graphics or the attention to detail that makes you feel 
 like you're going 200 mph crossing a bridge. The graphics, sound, game-play, etc. is simply incredible. 
 This is a must have for any racing fan.
  
  What I'd like to cover are some of the things that could have been improved. 
  
  - To start, 
 I have had the game lock up twice. I was just goofing around both times, but this is still annoying.
 
  
  - There is quite a learning curve to figure out how to start a race. On the previous games my wife 
 and kids could do this on their own. It now requires assistance. Along the same lines, it is difficult 
 to switch from automatic to manual and vice-versa. You must exit all the way back to the main menu, 
 select more..., select options, select game options, find the transmission and change it, exit 
 back to the main menu, then go find the race again. Quite a pain.
  
  - Photo mode is cool. However, the photos I like to take are usually at the end of the race. When 
 doing the replay at the end of the race it exits out of replay leading you to start the replay 
 again and fast forward to right before the end. It is very difficult to take a photo of the finish.
 
  
  - There is very little to lead you through the learning curve. It would be nice to have some introductory 
 explanation of trophies, badges, leagues, etc.
  
  - The loading time is very long. I would gladly exchange some cool looks in the garage for a rapid 
 car selection process.
  
  - There are some delays in graphics loading. Sometimes you will see the backs of buildings before 
 you see the front, etc.
  
  - When starting a race, I would like to see the cars and the track. Instead you see various angles 
 of your car followed by text. It is not until a couple seconds into the race that you can see the 
 other cars and the track.
  
  - The LB button that changes the view often gets hit by accident when braking. This may be due 
 to my large hands, but it often costs the race when the view unintentionally switches from the 
 car view to the in cockpit view.
  
  - On one occasion I had all of the display overlays go away. I'm not sure how I did this, but it 
 would be nice to be able to toggle them on and off.
  
  All these minor issues aside, the actual gameplay is awesome! The graphics are extremely impressive, 
 the sound is wonderful, and the music rocks! I have not touched on any of the cool effects such 
 as the glowing reflectors on the cone gates or the spinning ferris wheel as there is simply too 
 much to cover in a user review. You simply have to get the game to discover all the wonders.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebiddybop
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay : the cars all handle like their real life counterparts. I love how you can use the right 
 stick to pan the camera around yourself while your driving to get a look around you. I also like 
 how you can take pictures and store them. I love how if you want to listen to your own music all 
 you have to do is push the X logo in the center of the controller and select through your playlist. 
 ... and you have to give kudos for that.
  
  Graphics : This is by far the best looking racing game to date, the only reason I didnt give it 
 a 10 is because it's a launch game and I'm sure we will see better graphics from games in the months 
 to come, but it does look great. 
  
  Sound : With surround sound this game is amazing. You can hear cars approaching from behind you 
 on the side and then pass you by and the sound follows. All the cars make their real engine sounds 
 as well as tire burning.
  
  Value : If you just want to breeze through the game on medium or a lower difficulty then you might 
 be able to beat this game in one or two long nights. If your like me and want to get platinum medals 
 on all events then this game will last you almost forever. Along with the single player is a cool 
 online campaign as well that will help you see how you rank among others. On top of that it's a 
 multiplayer game and will keep you glued to the wheel as you speed through great looking cities.
 
  
  I personally have always been a fan of the project gotham series and this game turned me from a 
 fan to a fanatatic. 
  If you like racing simulations then this is the xbox racing game for you but if your more of an 
 arcade racer then this game is at least worth a play.
  
  Joe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sp-rt-n
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The next installment of Bizarre Creations racer, Project Gotham Racing 3 continues to deliver on 
 stunning visuals, excellent sound and thrilling gameplay. It incorporates over a hundred fully 
 licensed cars that you car drive to your pleasure in several photo-realistic locations around the 
 world. While single player is short and gets a little repetitive, the mulitplayer keeps you coming 
 back for more. But it's not only the locales, or the gameplay that rocked me, it was the striking 
 visual style and realism of the performance of all makes and models of the cars within the game 
 itself. It FELT like you were inside this 2,000 pound behemoth of metal, power and style. The reflections 
 cath your eye at an instant, locking your eyes to the screen. Your attention is in full demand 
 and the slightest of nicks in the wrong direction means the difference between 1st and 8th place. 
 I have to say though, enjoyed in surround sound truly completes the experience, with cars, trees, 
 and spectators racing all around you in every direction and plus, the cars sound REAL. All in all, 
 Project Gotham Racing 3 for the 360 encapsules the nature of next gen entertainment. Future games 
 should learn by it's example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  The Project Gotham Racing series for those of you who dont know is a very established racing series. 
 Its known for its terrific graphics, tight controls, and addictive online multiplayer. This game 
 takes all of those things to the next level. 
  
  Project Gotham Racing uses a kudos system to reward you for doing tricks if you want to call 
 them that. Anything from drifting to drafting to doing 360s earns you kudos. I honestly dont 
 know what kudos are used for at this time; it may just be bragging rights.
  
  That being said, Project Gotham Racing 3 is definitely more of an arcade racer. Damage does not 
 affect your cars performance and it seems like you can control your car no matter how fast and 
 out of control youre going. It is also a game thats more focused on style than actual lap times.
 
  
  The single player is pretty basic, nothing out of the ordinary. You compete in cups or series and 
 win credits for placing in a race. You then can use those credits and unlock new cars.
  
  All of the cars in Project Gotham are fast. The minimum top speed is 175 mph, which is fast, really 
 fast. Cars range from Lamborghinis to Ferraris to high end Hondas. 
  
  The multiplayer is also very simple but very addictive. You simply compete in different types of 
 races against people from all over the world. There is also an online career where you race in 
 different classes and win credits by beating other humans instead of computer controlled opponents.
 
  
  The gameplay in Project Gotham is very good. The controls are tight and responsive and the menus 
 are very easy to navigate.
  
  The graphics in are fantastic. The environments are the best Ive ever seen and the car models 
 are very good looking. The crowd standing along the road is also fully 3D and not some crummy paper 
 looking people. The only reason I gave it a 9 instead of a 10 was to leave room for future games 
 that might look better.
  
  The sound is also very good. The engines sound like their real-life counterparts, and the tires 
 squeal realistically as you fly through the turns.
  
  Project Gotham Racing 3 is an amazing game. It makes a terrific system launch even better and should 
 not be missed by racing game fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer921
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  As soon as i started playing the game i knew that the games hype was correct. Gameplay-mostly plays 
 like most other racers. Graphics- I don't have an HD tv and but this games graphics are awsome even 
 without one. The car models are smooth there are some pretty nice lighting effects. Sound-the sound 
 for this game is the best it's like im there racing in the car. Value-the value for this game is 
 the best and it only costs 50 dollars instead of 60. All in all project gotham 3 is a very good 
 game and a must for your launch games you buy for the 360.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgr4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2005 2:09 pm PT
Review:  defintley the best looking xbox 360 game on launch and plays like a dream buti have to say teh 
 sounds are the best of all creating the whole atmosphere of being in the car along with the inside 
 car view. SIMPLEY THE BEST GAME I HAVE EVER PLAYED.
  this is the game that really shows what the 360 can do, and im sure it'll apeal to anyone that 
 likes driving hot rides down actual streets in london etc. THE BEST 
 
  
  A* A* A* A* A* A* A*A* A* A* A* A* A* A*A* A* A* A* A* A* A* A* A*A* A* A* A* A*A* A* A* A* A* 
 A* A*A* A* A* A* A* A* A*A* A* A* A* A*A* A* A* A* A* A* A* A* A*A* A* A* A* A* A* A*A* A* A* A* 
 A* A* A*A* A* A* A* A* A* A* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 9:02 am PT
Review:  i just got 360 and this game runs for like 5 mins andthe system crashes
  so i cant injoy it...... sadly the game looks greatsounds great and the controlls are good i still 
 hate 360 controller but it still plays good when it does not crash i feel like the 360 wasrushed 
 out and i am thinking of taking it back to thestore cus it does not work well.... after buying 
 an american tv about 2 years back when it died just overa year later and it was 400$ so i lost 
 faith for american products and when i saw the 360 i was thinking wow maybe there not that bad 
 but sadly it was worng the 360 is made very poorley just like my dead tv.... i would say wait 1year 
 for microsoft 2 fix there system and see what the rev and ps3 have in store for us i cant say much 
 about this game cus it des not work for long 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaxia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  Great gameplay, excellent class of cars, strong sound track, and fantastic graphics and animation 
 make this a must have for any xbox360 owner. A great value and the right first step to next generation 
 gaming. The 80 car choices are all premium vehicles that handle and sound like the real thing. 
 The ability to have great rides right off the bat is a great feature. No more driving common cars 
 with poor handling and lackluster performance. Another strong feature is the various xbox live 
 modes. They add longevity to the game and Gotham racing tv is actually an enjoyable feature that 
 adds enjoyment to the title. If you buy one racing game at launch, get PGR3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gryphonblood
Rating: 6.1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is boring. Even though the tracks are accurate models of the various cities, 
 there is just no excitement or thrill. The biggest problem is there is no damage modeling. You 
 can run a car into a wall at 170 mph and nothing happens to the car and all you hear is a tingy 
 little "ping". It's laughable. All of the gorgeous graphics shown on the preview trailers are from 
 the various camera angle replays of the races; in-game the player of course has the same old in 
 car perspective he's always had and always will have. And I really don't understand what the big 
 deal about power sliding and kudos is. Gran Turismo's tracks had a much better power slide element 
 of gameplay. In PGR3 you usually can't get going fast enough to do a good power slide. It is actually 
 possible that the accurate reproductions of the the cities HURTS PGR3. These are real working cities 
 with relatively flat streets. Part of the thrill of Gran Turismo 3 was the winding hilly fictional 
 roads you got to race on. GT3 also had many cool features like learning to race "the line" and 
 mini games to develop your skills. PGR3 has a career mode and a few variations but that's it. I'm 
 very disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenSr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  VUUMM, VUUMM. ROOOAAAR, ROOAARRRRR!!!!! Yep thats what you get . A must have for those with the 
 need for speed. I sat back and watched my to odlest Mike (26) and Matt (24) go at it. Blew my mind 
 . Good varity of car stylies to pick from and you get to tweek them out. Them pick a track and 
 your off. Ya! Baby! Graphics are pretty hot, and the sound is there. Gear slaming, tires screaming, 
 and speed!!! Very fast moving grannie get out of the way. Rules of the road ? You don't need no 
 sticking rules just DRIVE!! Well enough talk , time to ride, move over boys Papa's got a thing 
 or two for you. YA!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The newest installment of PGR is deffinatly a big step up from the previous two and puts it right 
 up close to what the GT games have offered. More selectable cares, extreme and beautiful detail 
 into cars, tracks and environments. Although this is one of the newest racing games and is on the 
 next gen 360 it deffinatly has an edge performance wise over the PS2s GTs and Xboxs previous PGRs. 
 The online play so far has proven to be a little frustrating but once it gets going its alot of 
 fun, would be nice to be able to have more people play at once. But other than that this game is 
 deffinatly a gem and deserves to be owned by anyone who likes racing, speed, or exotic cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01morreyl
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game looks very impressive even better than all the rest of the Xbox 360 launch games and 
 Xbox 360 should produce even more games at this level of excellence!!!! I know they only have 80 
 cars but all of them are unique and they have there own characteristics and all with there own 
 engine noises.
  The graphice on this game is the most impressive over the others like gameplay and tilt etc, The 
 graphics are boosted up with the high definition and the gameplay is amazing you can actually feel 
 the cobbles on the road and the suspension bouncing off speed bumps to your opponents car parts!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saldogg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:09 pm PT
Review:  I was in doubt as to what game to get for my 360 besides PD0. I decided on PGR3 because i wanted 
 some variety. I made the right choice. The game is fun, immersive, and damn pretty, especially 
 on my 65 inch HD bigscreen. Yes i got my 360 early and that's how i can write a review. The graphics 
 are INSANE, right up there with the best I've seen on a console. The cars are gorgeous and handle 
 like you would imagine their real life counterparts would. The Ferrari F50 GT is trouble on curves 
 but KILLS straightaways. There's lots to do, and I haven't even gone online yet. Do yourselves 
 a favor, if you want some variety with your launch games instead of just getting 3 first person 
 shooters, get PGR 3. It takes a while to get used to the power slides, but once you do the fun 
 keeps rolling! A definite 9/10. Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richieTLC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This is perhaps what I suppose to be the first game that acually takes advantage of a first person 
 real-time simulation veiw. I know its not good to 
  focus on graphics alone, though that happens to be this games "strong points", but not only does 
 it exagerate extreme frame rates (the bridge scene) , it virtually implements real reflections. 
 I`m not sure if it does so precisely without any bugs/defects however I`m looking forward to that.
 
  
  Just imagine driving and some AI or Online Opponent rocks his little bright light behind you!!! 
 You`ll be blinded!
  
  Another thing in wich I meant by real-time simulation veiw is how we are able to look to either 
 side of us. Seen in one of the gameplay footages you can acually look to your right side! (skeptical 
 about left, but most likely.) 
  
  Unlike what GT4 had this first person view shows more than just a steering wheel... you acually 
 notice your cockpit and nav. system + side view mirrors.
  
  It sadly fails to get a 10 becuase i havent played it yet and on top of that.... Gamespot doesnt 
 seem to be to excited about it, considering they got hands-on. I suppose they are afriad to give 
 9-10`s becuase of regression in
  introductory games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-Of-HALO
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham has always been a series dedicated to leashing a great graphical experience with 
 a talented innovative gameplay, and with next-gen 360 i believe they've finally hit the mark they've 
 been looking for. In all do respect i love Gran Turismo 4, but ---and i am saying this for a big 
 chunck of us who were excited about it --- i was really disapointed that it didnt support anything 
 online. Project Gotham has the look, the feel, and the great price and lets not forget ONLINE PLAY 
 WOOHOO!!!! It is the total package for a launch title and it goes above and beyond what i had expected 
 if i had written this a few months back. BUY this game if you want a great launch title, especially 
 if u have a high def TV. The first two were good games, but this takes the series to a new lvl 
 of detail and finess. Heh enough with my opinion though, meh what the heck its goin to be GREAT ---I'll 
 leave by saying SEE YOU GUYS ONLINE RACING NOVEMBER 22! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:50 am PT
Review:  The is just a beautiful looking game. The graphics are amazing.... I dont know what Gamespot was 
 thinking giving graphics for this game a 9 I really dont know what they were expecting from the 
 360 but seeing there reviews A LOT higher then what it really is. Each car has 90 000 polygons 
 THAT HAS NEVER EVEN BEEN DONE ON A WHOLE SCREEN FOR A GAME YET. Well i bet gamespot has there reasons 
 for under rating the 360 games.. But back the this game. The controls are great and the races are 
 fun. This is derfinatly a game you will want to pick up for your 360 It will seriously blow you 
 away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRbomber
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 20, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing on the cars. The crowd is 3D, The trees are okay. But there are tons of 
 visual eye candy that is great. But I am more disapointed then satisfied with the gaphics. So far 
 this is the game with the bast graphics (like dirt and scratches that become visible when the sun 
 hits the windsheild.) but the 360 can handle more. Way more. As for the gameplay.. Been There, 
 Done That.
  
  Cheers, Dragular.
  
  P. S. THe graphics are AMAZING for what we are used to but not so good for what this system can 
 handle. So it gets an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phatdevil
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best racing games that i've seen, the graphics and sound are great technological 
 achivements. The new Gotham TV feature is an ingenious concept, which might be the main attraction 
 of the game. The realistic modeling of each car and hearth stoping sounds, makes you believe you 
 reallly are behind the wheel of one of the world's most exotic cars. The game does have its set 
 backs but they're so minor that they are not worth mentioning. This is as good of a racing game 
 as you will see in any console launch.
  
  Definitely a MOST BUY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sillynewbie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:13 am PT
Review:  When i first bought this game for my xbox360 console, i thought it would pretty much just be a 
 spinoff of the earlier installment PGR2. To my suprise it was much more than just updated cars, 
 and a new interior cockpit view. This game is as realistic as it gets! They use real 0-60 times, 
 and now the cars in the game range from mustangs to Murciellago's. No more having to play through 
 levels that require you to drive slow cars such as mini coopers. In singleplayer you can jump right 
 in to any car you want. Although the single player in this game only takes 10 hours to beat on 
 easy, and can range up to 15 hours to beat on hard. but this game isn't about singleplayer. Its 
 all about online. The only reason why people would play single player is to unlock and purchase 
 all of the cars for the online portion of the game. This game is a must buy for xbox live users, 
 and car enthusiasts. I couldn't be happier with this game. The cockpit view is outstanding and 
 is extremely accurate. The graphics of course look amazing. This game never lags online like PGR2 
 had on original xbox. All cars have individual engine recordings, this way you don't get a lamborghini 
 sound on a mustang, and a mustang sound on a lamborghini! Also new singleplayer features have been 
 added such such as eliminator where the last place car in each lap is eliminated, last player standing 
 wins. This is an extremley fun mode, and is even better if some people get eliminated by inches. 
 Also PGR3 allows you to custom build your own maps and let you become the developer. Also new features 
 on live have been added. On of the more intresting features is Gotham TV. You can watch high ranked 
 players and learn from them, ultimatley making you much better. Also you can be selected for Gotham 
 Tv giving you a chance to show off and be a mentor, gaining respect and popularity. Also many courses 
 have been facelifted, Nurburgring got signifigantly more realistic, and is the hardest course in 
 the game. Nurburgring is one of the best maps in my opinion to use the cockpit view, because there 
 are no hidden turns that you may not catch while in cockpit view, and it adds extreme realism. 
 While i live in New York, and i agree that the course in New York is as close to reality as it 
 can get, Nurburgring is the best course, even though you can reach speeds of up to 200 mph on the 
 brooklyn bridge... I don't want to spoil the game for you, if it is a debate of this over NFSMW 
 at launch, well it all depends on what you like better. NFSMW is more of a street racer and un 
 realistic, where as PGR3 is a simulation racer and is extremley realistic, you got into the turn 
 to hard, and you'll smash into the wall. I would reccommend that every car racer lover purchases 
 this game. You will neve get tired of it, and you will never take it out of your box, that is, 
 until halo 3 comes... = 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makis
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2005 3:31 am PT
Review:  The average of all the scores for each category i. e graphics, tilt etc is 9 not 8.8. Another example 
 of Gamespots anit x box mentality. Please learn to count!! Please explain yourselves, this attitude 
 is getting tiresome! And if you say that the score is not simply an avearge of all the categories 
 but is slanted at the end towards how the reviewer feels about the title then why even include 
 reviewrs tilt as a  This is totally 
 subpar in my opinion and not in line with the rest of the game journalist community. You influence 
 many people by your opinions as they are very well respected, please be more responsible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armageden2002
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Pgr is the best racing franchise ever. It has the best modes and cars ever. The games graphics 
 are brilliant and amazing . That games could literaly last for years. I like all the cars in the 
 game, thay are fast and responsive. They upped up the realism in this game. Youc can also drive 
 with the inside veiw of the car, which also has 40,000 polygons. The gameplay is amizng. The sound 
 on 5.1 dolby is breathtaking, The value is forever.
  What really makes this game next-generation? It's not really the gameplay. It's the graphics and 
 presentation. Visually, PGR3 is set up to look absolutely gorgeous when in 720p or 1080i. It's 
 still pretty in 480p, but it looks more like an Xbox game to be honest. The high-def setting makes 
 a world of difference. If you don't have a High-definition set-up, look into it quick!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkScorpion26
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This will be one of the XBox 360s best sellers right off the bat. They have made significant changes 
 and added new aspects to the gameplay. Gotham TV will no doubt be an outstanding new feature and 
 the Online tournaments and Achievements will give you something to shoot for, as well as hours 
 of practice and dedication. This will be a game that you will be able to play for years to come 
 or until the next one comes out. I won't be able to get bored with it and I doubt I'll put it down. 
 Out of the line up of launch games, this is the best. This game will be on a lot of peoples wish 
 list for the Holiday.
  
  Kudos to you Microsoft Game Studios and especially Bizarre Creations! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS2_Sux0rs
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 18, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  Take PGR2, add next-gen visuals, several new game modes, GothamTV, an all new next-gen cocpit view, 
 3D crowds, and you have the making of the best racing game this year. You'd also be talking about 
 Bizarre Creations' Project Gotham Racing 3.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The visuals are amazing. 60fps, motion blur, ultra-detailed textures and a resolution so sharp 
 you can reach into the screen and cut youself, PGR3 is graphically unparalleled.
  
  Sound:
  
  The engine roars of these supercars are nothing short of ear candy. The aural detail 
 of this game is so chock-full of goodness, you can literally hear the wind rushing by the car's 
 cocpit as you accelerate. Exhaust notes, engine purr, & tire squealing are spot-on and in delicious 
 5.1 surround.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Singleplayer is PGR2 plus about 10 new racing modes. You also get the photo mode thrown in to show 
 off the X360's graphics prowess to your envious friends.
  
  Taking the game online via Microsofts world-reknown Xbox Live is a real treat. GothamTV lets you 
 "tune in" to real-time races going on all across the Live network. I won't go into detail about 
 the online multiplayer racing, as I can't do justice to it... 
  
  In the words of Morpheus from The Matrix, "Unfortunately noone can be told what PGR3 is, you have 
 to see it for yourself."
  
  Take the red pill! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_best
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:52 am PT
Review:  this game is visually amazing is not a new stuff at all but u cant say that's not good because 
 of it ' u got 2 get it soon 'cause is gonna be sold out soon i think AWESOME!!!!!!!!! THIS GENERATION 
 IS JUST ABOUT TO START n this is a god parameter for all that's comin' so how can u say is not 
 a good game just get it !!!! the cars r visually perfect the control response is good too , the 
 music , i think will not dissapoint anyone ,the selection of cars is good , the cities where you 
 can race are god enough for get hours of fun , and the locked stuff will get you busy for a good 
 time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aphex123
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth buying and a big step up visually and mechanically from current gen 
 console racers, but you are in for a big disappointment if you expect this game to look anywhere 
 near as good as it does in the dozens of stills and movies circulating the web. It's really kind 
 of sad that marketing department was apparently forced to pass off cutscene video and retouched 
 gameplay footage as the game itself (or at least in some part representative thereof) in order 
 to bait the masses into entering a financial comittment in advance, thus catering to Microsoft's 
 fear that word of mouth will rain on the lauch day party.
  
  Why create so much hype in the first place? Just make a better looking game on a more powerful 
 system and leave it at that. No need to false advertise.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvkoolaidmanvx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Sure its got a bit better graphics but for next gen it dont look that impressive. Only view that 
 makes the game look good is the in car view and i dont think i would use that much. No new settings 
 as far as know and basically its just pgr2 with less cars, and a bit better graphics.... Dont really 
 like it for next gen.
  I'd reccomend that you rent it first because the 80 cars that you can choose from and realistic 
 in car view may attract you to the game. Im more of a sports/first person genre guy so these games 
 dont make me pitch a tent or anything like that although i did like pgr2 but this is just pgr2 
 with better graphics... so i c no point in playing it when i have pgr2 for xbox... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxgamexxer247
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  My brother is a manager for gamestop and they have a playable demo with the 360 console. And all 
 i gotta say i wow. From the graphics to the gameplay, it delivers everything you'd want in a launch 
 game. I really don't like racing games but this was WOW. It shows you the power of the console 
 and it delivers great gameplay along with it. After playing just the demo for an hour... I couldnt 
 stop; it just was like a part of me i didnt want to let go of. I actually thought for a second 
 that i was watching like live tv or sumthin lol. The graphics are amazing! And i love how microsoft 
 turned the white and black buttons into sholder buttons, at first i thought hmm then i thought 
 it was a great idea. I believe that this console will literally eat PS3 alive. and i am a ps2 fan. 
 im switchin over to MICROSOFT, c ya later SONY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most sexy games out. The graphics and the surroundings are so smooth its 
 not even funny. The handling is outstanding, everything is just great, this has a feel to the old 
 PGR3, but it has it's own feel in a lil way too. The 360 makes this game a game, the graphics are 
 stupendious, the gameplay is amazing, and everything is just great. There is not one thing i could 
 say wrong about this game, and that is very good for me. I will be looking foward to this on launch. 
 And the reason i can make this review is because i have played it for hours non-stop at my local 
 game stores, so if you heavn't played it yet, then get out and get to it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
