-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Project Sylpheed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/projectsylph/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Anime-like storyline ties the action together fairly well.
 Decent explosions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad frame rate.
 Boring gameplay.
 None of the available control schemes make flying around easy or fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 510 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Game Arts
Genre: Space Combat Sim
Date: Jul 10, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Project Sylpheed is a short and needlessly complicated space shooter that gets by on its cutscenes 
 more than its gameplay. 

  Project Sylpheed is a mission-based space shooter in the spirit of the Wing Commander series. You'll 
 fly around space, dogfighting with other spacecraft and launching big missiles at larger capital 
 ships, just as you'd expect from a game in this vein. The action is surrounded by pre-rendered 
 cutscenes that give the whole game a bit of anime flair, for better and for worse. Ultimately, 
 this game is brought down by its short length, poor control, and bad technical performance.  

 
  In the game, you fly as a guy named Katana. You're one of the Terrans, and you fight for the side 
 of Earth. At the other end of the conflict is the ADAN resistance, a group of humans from other 
 worlds who have joined together to fight what they see as tyranny on the part of Earth's government. 
 As the story progresses, you'll protect your carrier against ADAN attacks, take the fight to the 
 ADAN forces, and ultimately destroy ADAN's Death Star knock-off. Along the way, you'll get cutscenes 
 that deal with a few of the interpersonal relationships. In true anime fashion, the ace pilot on 
 the other side is a mysterious figure from your past, which makes the conflict feel a bit more 
 personal. The storyline isn't terrific, but it moves the action along in ways that usually make 
 sense.  

           Project Sylpheed makes a bad first impression, but it gets a little better as you go. 

  The gameplay is what brings Project Sylpheed down. While you're given three different control schemes 
 that either attempt to make things easy to handle or give the game a flight simulation-like quality, 
 none of them really do the job, as various commands require you to double-tap buttons, or hold 
 them down, or just press them once, and so on. It feels like each button has two or three commands, 
 depending on how you press it, which makes the tutorial mode more confusing than it should be because 
 it quickly rushes you through all of your ship's functionality without actually telling you why 
 any of it's useful. On top of that, many of the commands at your disposal -- such as a three-stage 
 special move that can slow down time, another that causes you to boost forward to bash through 
 enemies, or one that fires all your weapons at once -- are almost entirely useless.  

  Though the game's harder difficulties require you to be a bit more on top of things, most of the 
 game is spent lining up shots with your HUD and targeting computer, and firing homing shots to 
 take care of business. The only thing you really have to worry about is making sure that your support 
 ships or the ships you're escorting don't get shot down. On top of all that, the game is quite 
 short, and it's probable that most players will get to the conclusion of the story in around three 
 to six hours of flight time. Obviously, raising the difficulty stretches that time out, but fighting 
 tougher foes doesn't really make the gameplay any more rewarding.  

  Project Sylpheed doesn't look bad when it isn't moving. It's got some nice-looking star fields, 
 and the ship design is OK. However, anytime the area gets crowded, the frame rate suffers a huge 
 hit. In some of the later levels, where the opposing forces collide with their full fleets in tow, 
 the game is almost unplayable. But the explosions look nice and the sound effects are passable, 
 too. The game uses a good amount of voice acting, both in-game and during cutscenes, and it's of 
 the typical English-speaking anime quality, meaning that the characters are occasionally overdramatic 
 or a little too upbeat and cutesy for their own good. Ellen, the girl who flies as your wingman 
 for the entire game, is especially stupid.  

  While modern game machines haven't seen very many space shooters like Project Sylpheed, this one 
 probably isn't going to satisfy anyone looking for a Wing Commander or X-Wing-like game because 
 it's just too basic to hold anyone's interest for very long. At the same time, anyone looking for 
 a basic shooter will probably be put off by the needlessly complicated controls.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nephallim
Rating: 5
Date: May 16, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  ... since that was more entertaining, and less frustrating, than trying to play Project Sylpheed.
 
  
  Seriously, it's a button-masher... that flies in space. That fact hides a nice enough storyline 
 and a fairly good graphics/sound combination. But in terms of being fun to play... use the sticks 
 to point roughly at your enemies and mash some buttons.
  
  I really like the art design but if I thought the silly effects of Ninety-Nine Nights were distracting 
 and obnoxious, then Sylpheed takes that to a whole new order of magnitude. Kinda like Carrot Top 
 in its annoyingly excessive but yet ultimately ridiculous quality. Specifically, the vapor/exhaust 
 trails of fighters are overly bright and colorful, overly long, and don't dissipate very fast... 
 so in a large dogfight it is very easy to lose sight of nearly everything, including your HUD, 
 due to the weave of colored trails obscuring your view. Whether you are in wide 3rd, close 3rd, 
 or 1st perspective, it is never easy to make out what is going on thanks to the very fast pacing 
 and unsoundly tiny size of on-screen text identifying different friendly or enemy units. Enemy 
 fighters are either little dots in the distance that you only recognize thanks to your HUD... or 
 they are fly past you because you were traveling so fast to reach the distant looking red dot that 
 you over-shot their position without realizing how close you were getting until it was too late. 
 The designs themselves, whenever you aren't zooming by so fast as to not be able to appreciate 
 them, are rather nice... from the fighters to the increasingly larger capitol ships. It was rather 
 fun to dive towards a cruiser unleashing anti-ship missles and railgun slugs before pulling up 
 to strafe down the length of the hull or to just dive right through the middle of a frigate, rolling 
 and dodging debris as it breaks up and explodes around me. The background star fields and stellar 
 clouds and such are equaling impressive... when you take the time to look at them.
  
  The sound can be described in much the same way, being of good quality but too often unenjoyable 
 due to being deluged with too much of it at once. It's nice to hear your Wingman chime in to call 
 attention to damage you have taken or for your XO to tell you that you should rearm before your 
 ammo supply dwindles too much further or any of the other radio chatter... but between all of this 
 and the sound effects and the music, it just gets discordant. And I am still tweaking the settings 
 trying to find that balance between their various volumes that I am comfortable with. It just seems 
 like I have to pick one that I want to hear and the rest be damned.
  
  The gameplay is annoying. You have objectives and sub-objectives, the completion of which earns 
 you points that you spend to develop new weapon systems. While your objectives are obvious enough 
 and easily accessible should you forget, I have yet to find out how to know what my sub-objectives 
 are. All of it is mentioned via radio chatter, but sometimes it is hard to figure out just what 
 the hell you are being covertly tasked to do. Whenever you hear, for example, a destroyer commenting 
 about fighters coming right for it... are you supposed to peel-off from your attack run against 
 that battleship to go intercept or is it just background environment? It would at least be nice 
 to see exactly what you missed after the mission so you could retry, but all you get is a "completed 
 2/7 sub-objectives". I finally had to give up and leave the game unbeaten as the level that I was 
 on refused to key me in on exactly what it was that I was doing wrong. No matter how I equipped 
 my fighter, what tactics I used, or even how close I stayed to the damn thing... my carrier always 
 got shot down.
  
  The controls grow on you, but are definitely atrocious. Press this, double-tap that, hold this 
 in... so many variants on every button. And some of your capabilities are a waste. I never did 
 get any benefit out of the Y button, for example.
  
  If I find this one in a bargain bin, I may buy it... just so I can have the satisfaction of burning 
 a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: declasse
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  Project Sylpheed has some pretty bad reviews out there, but some pretty good ones too. I was interested 
 to see how i'd feel playing this game after i'd bought it and read alot of less than positive opinions 
 of it.
  
  I was dissapointed. Not in the same way i'm sure alot of others were but the same feeling none 
 the less. I really like this game, It's alot of fun, It looks good, controls aren't nearly as bad 
 as people make them out to be and the anime style cutscenes that give you story and motivation 
 to play are beautifuly done.
  
  Anyway enough of the positive, lets get back to my dissapointment. The reason this game let me 
 down was it's difficulty. I started playing in the medium settings and i got half way through and 
 i couldn't do it. No amount of modifying my ship could help. So i started the entire game again 
 on the "easy" difficulty. I couldn't make it past the third level this time.
  
  So i have just gihven up with this game. As much as i like it and i want to play it, I just can't 
 do it. The one thing which really would have helped this game would have been multiplayer. Another 
 game mode would have been greatly welcomed.
  
  I know i really didn't go over any of the details of the game but this in my opinion is all you 
 need to know. There isn't much story, the gameplay is repetitive and the missions uninspired. But 
 where it lacks in these areas it makes up for by being alot of fun. 
  
  The only thing that brings this game down for me is it's insane difficulty and it's lack of multiplayer. 
 If you can get past these flaws though you should definitely check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kibbik
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  The people at Square Enix are either very lucky or very clever as the sheer adjustability of this 
 game is like nothing else, although it had taken more than a few hours play before the revelation 
 came to me.
  This is, great looking and typically over-emotional anime cut-scenes aside, basically a space-shooter 
 where the better you perform, the higher the grading you get, resulting in receiving credits which 
 are spent to develop new weapons. This isn't as straightforward a process as it seems as it is 
 impossible ( on hard setting at least ) to get enough credits to develop everything. This is where 
 u can really tailor the game to be a single button missile-fest or close quarters dog fight-athon, 
 it's up to you how hard you want this game to be. Some forward thinking is required though as some 
 weapons will intefere with the mounting of others so develop new hardware wisely. Then it's off 
 to the hangar to kit out your fighter as you see fit for the next mission.
  Each takeoff is preceded by a briefing which is, well, brief to be honest. You only get a vague 
 idea of what you will be up against and the problem is compounded when the mission doesn't end 
 when it's expected to and a new enemy group enters the foray. But that's war I guess, and it actually 
 does add to the intensity of the battle. I found myself thinking 'oh no, here we go again' on more 
 than one occassion. But don't despair as in all the missions I was able to despatch of the targets, 
 eventually, and within the time limits that some missions impose. Although one mission in particular 
 I had to attempt several times due to the time limit but this was more to do with poor weapon selection 
 in the hangar. One gripe is the fact this mission time limit is also applied in the easy setting, 
 which seems to defeat the meaning of easy. Another bone is how the secondary objectives are never 
 stated clearly. I assume these are meant to be deduced from all the radio chatter that takes place 
 but it's easy to miss these in the heat of battle. On screen prompts would have helped here.
  The variety of enemies is good from small fighters up to battle cruisers, and discovering the methods 
 of felling each type is part of the fun. Of particular note is the warships, where in past games 
 it was mostly a case of pummelling the bejeezus out of them until they exploded. Here you can use 
 point and forget missiles or the strangely satisfying method of figuring out the small blind-spots 
 in it's anti-fighter cannons and taking it apart piece by piece with close range gun-fire. Be warned 
 though, on hard setting a warship's defences will cut you to ribbons in moments if you stray into 
 the line of fire.
  I found the visuals entertaining, not groundbreaking, and the plethora of ships on screen at any 
 one time can be nicely intimidating, but on occassion it can slow the frame rate, yet it's still 
 playable all the same.
  Like similar games this has the inclusion of wingmen, of which you initially start with one, and 
 later have three. Unlike similar games these wingmen/women actually can handle themselves which 
 allows you to concentrate on kicking butt.
  The controls work well and most become second nature after a few hours play. All the manuevers 
 I found useful in different situations although why a engine cut causes slow sheild depletion is 
 beyond me. The time slow manuever was particularly handy on battle cruisers.
  This is a game that was made for on-line play but some reason it's not here. This would have helped 
 it score considerably. But the campaign is ok and after 8 hours on hard setting I was 25% into 
 the game. This is better than the 10 hours it took me to finish higher-rated games like Gears of 
 War and Halo 3 at their most difficult settings. And this game is cheaper now too.
  Also it would have been nice to have a chance to change sides mid-plot ala Battlezone2 and experience 
 a different set of ships with different abilities. This would have suited the story-line well.
 
  If you're willing to give this game a little time it will surprise you, and remember it is as 
 hard or as easy as you want to make it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faroon
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 1, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I found this in Zavvi for 10, and thinking that nothing can be all that bad for 10, and having 
 seen some very positive user reviews, I stumped up the cash. I've spent the last 2 hours "playing" 
 it. 
  
  I have no idea what is going on. 
  
  I can either control yaw, or roll, but seemingly not both, without sacrificing change weapon buttons, 
 or something.
  
  I can't really work out which ships are friendly, and which are the enemy. I certainly can't target 
 specific parts of the enemy ships - "aim for the shield generator", well I would, but the rockets 
 won't target the generator, will they?
  
  Sometimes the big ship I'm protecting gets shot down, sometimes it survives, completely independent 
 of what I actually do during the level. 
  
  Maybe I'm just too old to get with it. Maybe I'm not Japanese enough. 
  
  It's all a blur of 
 pyrotechnics over which I seemingly have no control.
  
  Jeff gave this game a 6.5???? He was way off the mark - it's a 3, at best, and that's if you're 
 an android from Japan, with only 10 left in the whole world.
  
  Just. Awful.
  
  Avoid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  These days, when you say you play shooters, people often automatically think you mean FPS. Back 
 in the day, this meant that you spent hours dodging little bullets and fast moving ships, often 
 from a top-down or side scrolling perspective. I was one of those who preferred playing Blazing 
 Lasers to Mario Brothers and ate up just about every title I could get my hands on. The shooter 
 genre tried to stick with the times as gaming grew up. Attempts to move it into 3D space (and even 
 2.5D on occasion) have come and gone, and while there have been some notable exceptions, most have 
 fallen by the wayside due to lack of innovation or mass appeal. Silpheed is a classic name in shooters 
 and comes with a certain amount of anticipation from old school shooter fans. Back in the beginning 
 of bringing shooters into 3-D, the Sega CD Silpheed game was king. While this game attempts to 
 bring some new elements into the classic series, ultimately it falls short due to constraining 
 the most important element of the shooter: strong game mechanics.
  
  Lets get the good out of the way first. The presentation is this title's standout feature. This 
 shooter tries to tell a story, for better or for worse. Square Enix attempts to wow shooter fans 
 again (Einhander was a better attempt back in the day of bringing revolution to the genre) by injecting 
 some of their patented game convention into the title. Between each mission you are treated to 
 an advancing story through very competent Anime cut scenes. The animation is gorgeous, and I can't 
 believe the voice acting wasn't more atrocious than it was. The game itself is colorful and well 
 designed. The space battles are often large and awe inspiring in scale, and the action unfolding 
 around you can be daunting to keep up with. Flying around shooting down enemy fighters and warships 
 can be exciting when it gets it right. There are options to outfit your ship and some strategy 
 is often needed as much as twitch skills to get the mission completed. If a friend were to walk 
 into the room while you were playing, they may be wowed watching for the first few minutes. Unfortunately, 
 even bystanders will see flaws after just a few minutes.
  
  While the game attempts to be a space sim and arcade fighter at the same time, the controls are 
 way too complicated to pick right up. The controller mapping is busted, and even after tweaking 
 it in the options, I still had trouble finding a control scheme I felt really comfortable with. 
 The heads up display is overly complicated for an arcade shooter and clutters the screen. Often 
 you end up lining up colorful targeting computer blips than actually dogfighting with ships. Large 
 battles are colorful and intense, but can often show signs of slow-down. While the battles are 
 laid out for you in briefing, all goes to crap after just a few minutes when the objectives change 
 on you on the fly. The chatter from your crew can barely be heard and it can be almost impossible 
 to keep up with new orders as they come in, even if you hear them. I lost battle after battle simply 
 because I didn't know where the real objective was. And speaking of objectives, the number of escort 
 missions is obscene. Shooter fans know that escort missions are the worst that the genre has to 
 offer, and when you are given one after another, it really begins to wear on the fun factor. 
 
  
  Given that the game is short in length, the story is weak, and the actual shooting wears thin after 
 just a handful of missions, it will take a real shooter fan to trudge through all of the game. 
 Does that make it horrible? The answer is no. I had a good time with it for what it was, and while 
 I won't say its a must play even for shooter fans, it is nice to get back in the saddle of a powerful 
 space ship. This game just reminds me of problems racing games run into when they can't decide 
 if they are arcade or sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  WAY! This game was so fun for the first 10 hours you wonder if you will ever stop. About hour 10 
 and 15 mins into it you realize how many playthroughs of this game must I endure? I hear somewhere 
 over 25+ just to finish a full 1000gs. Thats playing the same game over 25 times which I dont think 
 Ive done since Pacman when my brain thought Pacman was the bomb in video gaming. Thank god it was 
 a rental. Sudden price drops from 59.99 to 29.99 should tell you more than any review. Don't get 
 me wrong. It was enjoyable, but like a snake that turns on you it bites you in the hand you lay 
 there dying to play to something else. Im rushing this back just so I can have some peace of mind. 
 What ticked me off is when I unlocked and developed every weapon for my shooter and it was still 
 a big piece of crap. What a letdown. I dont know about the story because its easy to skip. Just 
 like this game. If you never play it, hats off to you. This is beyond mediocre, its insulting. 
 Great graphics, good sound, awfully addicting gameplay for one day, but past that its a shooter 
 that you want to shoot yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunloved
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  I've seen alot of poor reviews for this game, and having a love for space shooters, I had to go 
 and pick this one up. So, as others have made aware, this game is very painfully short. I think 
 in fact, you can beat it in around 5 hours. The controls are rather odd, though I never had any 
 problems. I'll start with the negative, then most to the positive. I've already said its short, 
 so I'll report a few others things. Allies do kill things, but for some reason are slow when it 
 comes to it. Some missions, well, most have you killing all the targets and after killing everything 
 on my own, I view my map and still one target left. After flying over there, I see a dozen allies 
 chasing... one enemy. I think they should go back to flight school or be fired. Something. Some 
 other annoying things is when your flying at top speed, sometimes its hard to figure whats around 
 you and then you fly smack into a ship and go boom... which sets you back ALL the way to the beginning. 
 Unless your at a check point part of the missions, but having to start all over is frustrating. 
 The good points. I found it fun buying some of the new weapons and firing them off... well, duh, 
 thats what I'm supposed to do. But its thrilling to fire a missile pod and watching your screen 
 fill up with missile trails. The graphics are great, and its very pretty to see the stars and planets 
 and such. But now as I write this... I wonder... does the game have music? lol. I don't ever remember 
 hearing it... hmmmmmm. Anyways, I did give the game a rather high score only cause I enjoy space 
 games, but I only recommend it as such. If you like space shooters, rent it or buy a used copy. 
 If not, stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackcranberry
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Look. I miss Colony Wars. The fact that nothing was done with the franchise during the last generation 
 was a near-unforgivable crime. Dynasty Warriors had a game come out ever twelve seconds. What the 
 hell?
  
  So, along comes Project: Sylpheed. Looking at the box, I was a bit surprised to see that Square/Enix 
 was behind it, but then I thought about Einhander and what an anxiety-inducing rush that game was. 
 I figured, how bad could it be?
  
  Not bad at all. Dogfights outlined in swarmer-missiles, massive battleships that require multiple 
 attack runs, wingmen that pretty much do what you need them to. Not to say that the mission structure 
 is anything beyond: Hey. Here come some ships. Kill everything that isn't an ally.
  
  But frankly, that's exactly what I was looking for.
  
  Hey. If you want depth, check out Mass 
 Effect or Call of Duty 4's multiplayer. But if you just want to fly around in space and kill stuff, 
 P: S will do quite nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikomas
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  I have to say this, I think Gamespot is totally of here, hey its short I blazed trough The game 
 4 hours but those were 4 of the best hours I ever spent on a Xbox360.
  Right now im on my second run hunting the achievements.
  
  Graphics 8
  Its good and very 
 many details
  The sequences between the missions are in true Squere Enix spirit.
  
  Sound 8.5
  l will give the sound a 10
  The explosions sound great and the in-game the characters 
 talk about almost everything that happens, you can even hear the enemy panic over why a single 
 fighter is able to take down a huge battleship.
  
  Gameplay 8
  I like the gameplay and unlike Gamespot i did NOT suffer from any frame rate issues but they are 
 right about 1 thing, you never use the special abilites.
  This is the game for me becuse i have not seen a game like this for long.
  
  Controls 8
  
 The controls themselves ain't that bad, but they are hard to master
  
  Overall this is a great game i only wish there was a online mode or a longer campain.
  
  
 
  
  So at first i totaly praised this game but i though about it and i came to another colclusion. 
 sure i love this game but it does have some issues.
  i still think its cool but some more content would have been nice.
  
  also i have a trick for 
 quick turns. shut down the engines while boosting turn around then reengage the boos. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonslashx
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 24, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Honestly this is my favorite kind of flier action game. The realistic ones like ace combat take 
 more work to manuver and dog fight. Games like this put real piloting skill into the game which 
 in all makes it more interesting. Over all the game was fair, pretty weak story but the voice actors 
 did their best. But what ruined it was the lack of things to do in between missions. It was too 
 snappy, there was no real like break for you unless you count the stupid outfitting fighter screen 
 which was pretty much useless. What should have been done would have been to make it so you can 
 walk around the acropolis and out fit your fighter there and customise it further. Lastly, a contribution 
 from xbox live such as an online verses would have been very fun and engrosing. But as it is the 
 game was fairly good but I would never buy it, just rent the damn thing, it was worth that much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenix_232
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Project Sylpheed is a game where you take control of a fighter, pilot, and shoot enemies thats 
 about it. When it comes down to it thats all there really is to this game it doesnt have a horrible 
 story but if you quit in the middle of the game your not missing anything really all that important. 
 Graphics -- 9/10 The graphics are beautiffully made, and they don't ruin the game in anyway.
  
  Sound -- 6/10 The Soundtrack is nothing special just your basic music of any fantasy/sci-fi 
 game out there.
  
  Game play -- 6/10 At first the gam eplay is wonderful but as you progress throughout the game it 
 gets boring and even tedious. All you do is pilot a ship and destroy of ships which there isn't 
 much varitey to them. As to porfomance issues I had none the game ran smoothly and never froze 
 or lagged on me.
  
  Overall -- 6.5/10 While it is pretty, Project Sylpheed tends to lack on the gameplay and variety 
 while it does have a story if you skip every cut scene you will miss nothing important. If you 
 like sci-fi flying shooters then rent it for a week or so, past that I really wouldn't recommend 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Project Sylpheed is a 3D free-roaming space shooter where you fight to save Earth from an independent 
 group who sees the government as tyranny. It turns out that in the 27th century, Earth has conquered 
 several planets and systems, having them all under one government, and this group (the Adan Freedom 
 Alliance) isn't happy at all, and fights for independence.
  
  You take the role of Katana, a Terran pilot fighting for Earth. In traditional anime style, the 
 story is presented with beautiful animated sequences, only to be interrupted by combat missions. 
 That's pretty much it: story, briefing, equipping weapons and fighting.
  
  When in space, you're free to fly around attacking whatever is closer to you with whatever weapons 
 you have handy. You can fly with the squad and attack what they are attacking, or go off on your 
 own after some other target. Combat is just like what I remember from DarkStar One, except these 
 controls are a lot more complicated. It seems that every button you can use has more than one command 
 available if you press it in different ways (tap left trigger to break, tap it twice to power off) . 
 The basics aren't too bad to grasp. You move with the left thumbstick, shoot two different weapons 
 with the left and right buttons, right trigger to accelerate, left trigger to break, and X to change 
 weapons. I personally thought the basic tutorial was good enough to get me out there shooting at 
 things. However, if you want an in-depth look at the maneuvers your ship can do, go through all 
 of the tutorial stages as not to miss a thing.
  
  The battles are quite intense. All the twisting, turning and flipping to avoid incoming missiles 
 while trying to lock on enemies and shooting them down in the middle of trails left by pretty much 
 everything really does make me dizzy and it's quite disorienting. And you also run the risk of 
 damaging friendly ships, so you can't just fire at everything that moves. Even with so much going 
 on at the same time, the frame rate is quite stable in the middle of the chaos.
  
  Your ship is called a Delta Saber, and you will be able to customize it with a series of weapons 
 which are unlocked as the story progresses. There are multiple lock-on missiles, railguns, rockets 
 and more, which can also be upgraded to become stronger and faster, and other weapons that can 
 be researched. You can purchase some upgrades by using the points awarded from completing your 
 missions successfully. Most importantly, you must try to find a balance between equipping powerful 
 weapons and the weight of your ship, since it affects its performance, so don't go equipping a 
 bunch of weapons just because you can.
  
  The game isn't easy though, and it's not just because of the complex controls and tons of stuff 
 on the screen at once. Some of the missions carry on one after the other, and the game doesn't 
 leave you space to save in between, so you must start that particular sequence all over again. 
 Failed objectives, being destroyed or crashing means game over, and you can continue from that 
 same mission. Some missions also have time limits that you aren't aware of until the time is almost 
 up. I've also noticed that in the after-battle summaries there were side goals to complete. However, 
 these are never presented to you during the combat missions at all.
  
  Visually, Project Sylpheed looks good, and I don't mean just the FMV cutscenes. The space landscapes 
 are also quite nice, if you take the time to stop and have a look around. I particularly like the 
 little details: smoke trails, particle effects and explosions look pretty good. The music is not 
 bad either, and the voice acting is what you can expect from the usual Japanese infuences, over-reacting 
 teenagers - which the main characters are anyway.
  
  The biggest disappointment is the lack Xbox Live features. No leaderboards, no online play, nothing. 
 Once you've played it through once, there really is nothing that will make you want to go back 
 and play it over again.
  
  Overall, Project Sylpheed is ok, but due to its flaws, it doesn't stand out too much. Review text 
 part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=projectsylpheed 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RiseAgainst12
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Project Sylpheed is a simple arcade like space shooter which uses next-gen tech to make it look 
 impressive. There is also a ship customization option which allows you to choose the most useful 
 and destructive weapons you pocess, and as you progress through the game you begin to unlock more 
 powerful and destructive weapons that make for very impressive explosions. Anyone who likes to 
 just sit back relax and destroy everything in your sight then this is your game. Project Sylpheed 
 is not overly priced so if you have the money i suggest you give it a go. There is always something 
 to do, be it get all of the medals or just prove to urself that you are the best space pilot in 
 the world with the games newly incorperated challenge missions and leaderboard. The preset controls 
 are badly placed but you can simply change them to your own suitability. The game also has a very 
 good storyline which helps to keep your attention and even make you come back for more. Overall 
 the game mixes simple gameplay with great storyline to produce a cheap and cheerful buy which makes 
 for a great single player gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mad_Hatter
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  the game is actually good, the story is really good, don't believe square enix can pull of a nice 
 action game, the only problem with this game are the controls, they don't help you at all but when 
 you get the hang of them you can make really cool moves. the game is challenging really tough missions, 
 but is really nice.
  
  it can actually make me hold on to my 360 until Ace Combat comes around, i mean is not the most 
 amazing game of aerial combat like the ACES series, but is good.
  
  you can also customize your DELTA SABER and get cool weapons, the characters are anime like, and 
 the voice acting is good. you should check it out if you like anime-space and air ships. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corbettrw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Have you played Freespace II, and desperately pined for a sequel or followup, you may be in luck. 
 Square/Enix has released a space fighter sim which, in many ways, is even better than that game. 
 Let's be honest here: Freespace II's fighters felt about as slow as cars, and the technology behind 
 that game has fallen behind. But here, in Sylpheed, the fighters zip around at incredible speeds, 
 and battles much bigger than anything in Freespace II rage around you as you try to accomplish 
 your objectives. The graphics are great, with jaw-dropping backgrounds and highly-detailed models. 
 The music does a good job of helping to set the tone, and radio messages during missions give the 
 battles more personality.
  
  Missions generally direct you to wipe out a certain group of enemies, be it a formation of fighters 
 or a whole fleet of ships. Other times you only need to shoot down the enemy wing-leader. The combat 
 is furious and fast paced, and it can be pretty overwhelming as huge beams of energy criss cross 
 back and forth and ships explode all around you. Worse, you'll almost always be surrounded by swarms 
 of fighters. To me, however, that only adds to the sense of exhilaration. It may be intimidating 
 to casual gamers, but anyone looking for a roller coaster ride will definitely find it here.
  
  The real star of the game, the Delta Saber, is apparently the most powerful space fighter in 
 the universe. With its special abilities and incredible firepower, it's virtually invincible. It 
 just chews up enemy fighters and capital ships like they're not even there. The real challenge -- and 
 it can be quite hard -- comes in trying to accomplish objectives in time.
  
  There are some negative points to the game, however. Mission objectives don't always feel like 
 they're clearly defined, and can end abruptly. The player's fighter is perhaps too powerful, and 
 it can seem like your allies are just there as window dressing while you single-handedly do all 
 of the work. As for the plot, it is just full of anime and space opera cliches. I could see every 
 plot twist coming a mile away. Also, the main character is way too much of a pansy.
  
  It's really a shame that this game isn't enjoying as much praise as I feel it deserves, but space 
 fighter sims have always been a bit of a niche genre. Nevertheless, this is the perfect game for 
 someone who wants eye-popping graphics, blazing fast combat, and a good challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gihrenzabi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  The primary appeal of Project Sylpheed for me was as a throwback to the old-school 3D space combat 
 flight sims the likes of which we just don't have anymore. Freespace 2 was probably the last really 
 good game of this genre to be released, and that feels like ages ago.
  
  Project Sylpheed is not a sim, however. It just looks like one. This is an arcade-style shooter 
 wrapped in the trappings of a space combat sim, but I think the combination of simpler play with 
 sim-inspired design works pretty well, as long as you're not looking for a deep experience.
  
  The mission briefing design reminds me a lot of TIE Fighter and Starlancer. There's something 
 very cool about seeing the graphics of the surrounding systems and the icons of your ships and 
 the enemy ships as your commanders give you the run-down of your mission in voiceover. The ability 
 to customize your Delta Saber starfighter's weaponry is a trade-off for being able to select different 
 ship types. The variety of weapons at your disposal is nice, but many of them eventually become 
 redundant or just useless. You still have a lot of good choices, mostly in style of combat (for 
 example, machine-gun like weapons or beam-type weapons, or small numbers of guided anti-ship torpedoes 
 or larger numbers of unguided rockets) .
  
  The graphics are all about the anime, which should come as no surprise to anyone. Any fan of Mobile 
 Suit Gundam's original One Year War storyline is going to instantly recognize the influence of 
 that series on the capital ship designs in Project Sylpheed: the ADAN ships look like Zeon cruisers 
 and the Terran ships look like Federation cruisers. The resemblance is uncanny.
  
  The Delta Saber fighters look like odd Veritechs from the Macross series (sans the transforming 
 into robots, of course) . The ADAN fighters look like something from out of the Wing Commander series, 
 so at least the developers stole their influences from the right sources.
  
  The gameplay is really going to be about personal preference. If you're looking for a classic flight 
 sim, you are going to be sorely dissapointed. The targeting options are pretty miserable; you can 
 cycle through targets, but there's no display to tell you *what* precisely you are targeting if 
 it isn't in front of your ship. When you are targeting capital ships, crosshairs show you the various 
 subsystems like the Bridge, Engines, Weapons, etc., but there is no way to throw a reticle on them 
 or lock your ordanance weapons on specific subsystems like you could in the Wing Commander or X-Wing 
 series. You can target what is directly in front of you but your reticle is large enough such that 
 you can fit a good number of ships inside of it and might not always target what you are looking 
 for.
  
  Most of the combat is about seeking weapons. Hold down the Lock-On button, get as many target locks 
 as possible, let the missiles fly, wait for the reload, and repeat. On early missions, where the 
 power of your anti-capital ship missiles and railgun are low, you will find yourself making multiple 
 trips back to your carrier to re-arm as your weapons are so weak that you need to unload a lot 
 of hits onto a cap ship to take it down.
  
  You rarely need to use your guns - the railgun is useful for taking down shield generators on cap 
 ships (if you can find them without the ability to cycle through subsystems) and if you have a 
 fighter in front and close and have tracking bullets it is worth trying to gun them down. Otherwise, 
 fire-and-forget missiles do most of the work for you, and in order to beat some of the missions 
 with a very tight time limit (something that will definitely annoy anyone looking for a sim experience) 
 you simply won't have the time to be individually-targeting ships and taking them down with your 
 guns one-by-one.
  
  Your flight controls take some getting used to as well. In the default setup the left stick yaws 
 the fighter with slight movement to one side, and rolls the fighter with increased movement - but 
 where that line of demarcation between yawing and rolling exists is anyone's guess. Thus, you find 
 yourself rolling and climbing or rolling and diving through most of the game.
  
  I haven't tried to customize my controls much so there may be workarounds for the flight control 
 schemes, but from what I read it's pretty imprecise no matter how you cut it.
  
  The frame rate problems are obvious, and this is my primary problem with the game. There's no excuse 
 for this sort of performance on the 360. It doesn't ruin the game by any means, and I haven't run 
 into very long stretches of framerate slowdown, but the fact that it takes place at all is annoying.
 
  
  If you're looking for a fun game to remind you of some of your favorite space combat classics but 
 on your 360, Project Sylpheed is worth the $40. Your tilt towards this genre is probably the most 
 important thing to consider before a purchase, however: the only reason I am so forgiving of the 
 various problems with Project Sylpheed is because I love the genre so much.
  
  ON EDIT: I just finished the game this past weekend, and man, is it short. It's too early for me 
 to gauge replay value, but at this point I'm downgrading my score and suggesting that this is a 
 rental, not a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tuor7
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Those whom, like me, enjoy Space Combat sim games like Wing Commander, X-Wing, or Descent: Freespace 
 have had mighty slim pickings for many years now. I had hopes that Project Slypheed (PS) would 
 be something I could hang my hat on for a while, but alas, it was not to be.
  
  I've played this game through three times now -- it doesn't take long, really -- so I think I've 
 gotten a good enough handle on what the game is about to make some observations about it.
  
  The most important part of this sort of game is gameplay. Unfortunately, this is one of Project 
 Sylpheed's weakest areas. The actual ship movement isn't bad: it makes sense and works well enough. 
 However, engaging in some of the other control functions is sometimes difficult, and often cumbersome. 
 For example, you have to double pull the right trigger to hit your afterburners, during which your 
 maneuverability is much reduced, but after you release the trigger the afterburners continue to 
 fire for a while, making placing where you want your ship to end up a tricky affair.
  
  Worse than the above is the difficulty in determining your orientation. This is, IMO, especially 
 perplexing. While I can accept that a space-based fighter craft might not have a ball that tells 
 them their orientation with the horizon, with the poorly implimented radar it is easy to get yourself 
 so turned around that you don't know which way to turn to line yourself up for your next target. 
 Many times I found myself using trial-and-error to figure out which way to turn, wasting precious 
 time in the process.
  
  The graphics themselves were good. There were a few times when I noticed some studdering, but for 
 the most part, my 360 Elite didn't seem to have any problems. Sound was also decent, though I found 
 the Hanger theme to be somewhat grating on my nerves. Voice acting was very good, but sometimes 
 over-the-top (especially Ellen) .
  
  The plot was... passable. Sort of. Many parts were overly dramatic, others seemed to be entirely 
 implausable. For example, how could the Terrans not have known about such a massive fleet build-up 
 by the members of the ADAN alliance? Why would ADAN citizens condone the destruction of entire 
 worlds? Sorry, just not at all plausable. The Devs need to go play Freespace.
  
  Some additional, nit-picky observations: The game uses weird terminology, both in terms of military 
 ranks and in ship type names. Some military people have ranks like Colonal or Major, while others 
 have Admiral and Commodore. I wish the Devs had did a bit of homework on that. More annoying was 
 the Ships and Fighters issue. At first, I didn't understand the difference in how the game used 
 the names. I also wish they'd used the term Capital ship to refer to carriers or battleships, since 
 that is what they are. I suppose this all falls under translation issues (the game was made in 
 Japan) , but it still causes confusion and seems sloppy to me.
  
  In conclusion, though I've bashed the game quite a bit, I think it has its moments, and is reasonably 
 fun to play once you start getting used to the funky controls and cluttered screen. It's not in 
 the same league as Freespace 2 (but then, what is?) and its short length means it loses its freshness 
 rather quickly. But if you don't take it too seriously, you can still get some enjoyment out of 
 it while thinking about how easily it could've been a much better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebookerd1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  I love this game this is probably one of the games on 360 that for me has the most replay value. 
 Totally action packed with intense action. I'll give you a breakdown of the action.
  
  Plot / Story (9.0)
  If you are into Anime themed games Then the subtle plot will hook you like 
 a bright lure into a big mouth Bass. (I don't fish often but this game is really addictive and 
 catching) . Your Main Character Katana Fairway and Academy friend Ellen (kind of like girlfriend.) 
 Are in the middle of a sudden war with the Adan Armada. (you learn most of this in the first cut 
 scene.) But by some unforeseen coincidence his best friend whom is now part of that army must do 
 battle with each other for the sake of the universe. Pretty generic but it plays out really well 
 you got to love it.
  
  Game Play: (9)
  Then ability to take down an entire fleet from destroyers to cruisers to Battle ships is exhilarating. 
 I've seen over 25 fighters flipping moving dodging all around me with no slow down. I was impressed. 
 I did see a little slowdowns with some of the massive battle ships when trying to take one out. 
 It can be close to a nightmare!!!
  Big battles with tons of ships can be tough more experienced pilots strafe/spin and flip often 
 you can really waste a tone of missiles in rough times. There is really no way to control the missiles 
 after firing just lock on and pray, but what should you expect when fighting experienced pilots.
 
  
  Graphics: (8)
  Great Graphics. The only draw back is fighting Massive battle ships cause slowdowns most of them 
 at close range are large enough to fill the entire screen. The background solar system is immerse 
 and be beautiful. you really get the feeling that you are actually moving toward object and planets. 
 plays at long distances.
  
  Sound (9)
  With surround sound the game is gold. I have no disappointments. You can hear the Lock-Ons from 
 behind. I really felt like I was inside a cockpit with pilots communicating.
  
  Value (10)
  Unless you have never played through the tutorial you will have no real clue how 
 to play this game. I mean if your smart and can read maybe you would go to the tutorial and go 
 through it. After that there are a few things to practice first range and radius of the HUD. Learn 
 it Love it the HUD is your best friend but a few weapons can trick it. certain weapons will go 
 past the range all have to do is test them. Next thing it the special moves well timed boost and 
 spin can save your life. Next your power moves. 3 will take all your shields but will slowdowns 
 time you can take out half an army in a few seconds NICE!!! once you master these things the World 
 is yours.
  
  Replay Value (100)
  I can't stop playing this freaking game. I'm addicted!! This game is crack plus for people with 
 ADD and people that are compulsive perfectionist. It will be a while before I'm done with this 
 one. I want to go through it at least 5 more times before I'm done. Massive replay value it is 
 unreal!!
  
  This game was just what I needs to feel that my 360 was worth is something different and fun. You 
 will really have to repeat a mission over and over again just to get it right or under the time 
 limit. Not to mention the game is a bargain at $39.99 name a game that has premiered at $39.99, 
 on a next Gen system that offers this many features. It is just unheard of.
  Xbox 360 = $499
  Project Sylpheed = $39.99
  360 Controller = $39.99
  Taking down 50 warships 
 and 10 Destroyers in 12 minutes.... Price less!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lescale
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:41 am PT
Review:  Project Sylpheed is maybe on the short side and yes there are some frame rate issues, but none 
 of the above will spoil your pleasure. Let's also agree on the fact that the controls are not easy 
 to learn, but between us, I love them. It took me some time, but now, I love to afterburn to my 
 targets, roll to dodge incoming fire and release hell on heart (or space if you want) on them. 
 What other game let's you choose what weapons to develop and use, let you charge up your fighter 
 to become a killing bullet or slow time for a while? What other game let you lock on 60 targets 
 at a time and see the screen light up with all your homing rockets. By the time you'll finish the 
 game for the first time, you'll have blown up 600 fighters and 150 battle ships if not more depending 
 on your skills.
  
  Once the game is cleared, you can go to mission select to replay all the levels (14 with some tacking 
 between 10 and 40 minutes to clear) or just start the story mode over. But guess what ... you keep 
 everything. Your credits, your weapons and your stats. Yes, I'm on my third time through the game 
 now, just to unlock every weapon and to get to the achievements of killing 10000 ships or destroying 
 10 Gigaton of metal.
  
  Speaking of achievements. You will not get all the achievements. You will only get a small part 
 of them clearing the game for the first time. The major part requires you to accomplish certain 
 hidden bonus objectives. And they are smartly explained while you fight Incoming warship, where 
 did that guy come from, all fighters investigate . By going to that warship and turning it in to 
 scrap bits, you'll get a protector achievements. That's how this game does it. In short, consider 
 your first play as a complete tutorial, then enjoy the replays as achievement unlockers, stats 
 boosters (try to get S rank on every mission on every game difficulty) an try to unlock every weapon. 
 By then, you'll be playing for about 20 hours. And believe me; I enjoyed it all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: life4hire
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Project Sylpheed is a beautiful game. Most of the battles take place in the middle of two huge 
 fleets slugging it out. You can shoot down fighters and capital ships alike. A problem is some 
 times you will need to fanatically stick to the mission objectives because your mission will start 
 counting down to end the mission. I have not detected a time limit per mission but something fires 
 off that you have 3 minutes remaining. Other than the strange time limit thing the game is wonderful. 
 Visuals are great and the actions is non stop and you have to think about how you attack its not 
 just point A to point B and blow this up.
  
  Highly recommend this game because the excitement of unlocking new weapons and then saving your 
 money earned on missions to develop the new weapons so you can use them is just tons of fun.
  
  Great game and highly recommended.
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightstriker_Qc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I admit, I was one of the few who Colony Wars (1-2 and 3) changed how I see and what to expect 
 from space game. Since CW, I never found any worthy replacement for space fighter. Most Star Trek 
 sim are slow, innacurate and even sometime limited to a 2D plane.
  
  Sylpheed however, it's exactly what I expect from a good space flight sim. Total freedom!
  
 
  To tell you the truth, I wasn't expecting anything. Never heard of Sylpheed before picking it 
 up in store. I was looking for a game, and found that one... 39$? Nice price... Worth a try.
  
  Damn! No way in hell I will exchange that game! Worth so much more then 39$. Now the review. 
 On the gameplay side, it's a stunning flight sim with great control. (Anyway, for me) But you can 
 always customize the control to your need. Personnaly I rarely do. On top of that, hundred of weapons 
 combinaison possible as your fighter can hold 4 different kind. You got weapons, then? Hundred 
 of enemies and allies on screen! AI shooting each other furiously! Star Wars epic space battle 
 appear weak in comparaison. Thousand of missiles, bullets, beam and everything you can imagine 
 flying all over the place.
  
  Now, the game isn't perfect. The HUD, while easy to adapt for a gamer like me, isn't good in a 
 design point of view. It's kinda glugged in the middle of the screen and often hide some stuff. 
 It also display some pointless infos and the text is too small. (I'm lucky to have an HD TV) The 
 radar just plainly suck, as it's a 2D view of the battlefield. Kinda pointless when the battle 
 is totally in 3D. But when to find a tanker or a primary target, it works flawlessly.
  
  In the gameplay, the bad side is the lack of clear objective. You got to find by radio log what 
 you got to do. So, expect to fail each mission a couple of time. Also, you often hit yourself to 
 a kinda lame time limit. But aside all that, the story is interresting and you want to know what 
 happen next. The mission aren't too repetitive.
  
  Graphicly, the game is just stunning. There is no bad side of the graphic. Maybe only that sometime 
 your screen is just too filled with missiles and ships. The only bad side doesn't come from the 
 graphic quality... But from the hardware which sometime have problems to follow. Yes, you can feel 
 the 360 lagging graphicly once in a while. It's rare... But it happens. You know what? I don't 
 mind. The graphic just rocks.
  
  The sound isn't too bad. Not the best, lack of 3D feel sometime, but it's still quite good.
  
 
  You know what? For 39$, this game is worth every single penny put into it if you like Colony Wars 
 type of game.
  
  Sure, 90% of the population don't like that type of game. Many get space sick, many more get lost 
 in the 3D space.
  But for those like me, who like to receive douzen of information input in the same time by a really 
 complex HUD, while receiving audio order, shout from other pilot, sound of explosion, of my engine, 
 of my weapon, of everything!... All that while piloting in free 3D space, shooting and being shotted 
 by hundred of ships that shot missiles, beam, laser, bullets and everything else you can imagine... 
 It's just a pure delice. It's an overload of senses.
  
  Lately, games try to go in a way... I'm not sure if I approuve. Many game lately has minimal HUD, 
 no audio input or close to none and keep the screen clear and easy to read all the time. My minimalist 
 side tells me it's good.
  
  My gamer side tells me it's for the weaks and the noobz!
  
  Been a long long while since I played a game that overload my senses. And damn it feels good.
 
  
  (Yeah it has no multiplayer! But I really hope they make a sequel, with a 32-64 players systems. 
 It would be soooooo sweet.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackOzz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Being a big Freelancer (PC) and Colony Wars (PS2) gamer, this is a welcome addition tho the 360 
 library. Game play is challenging and graphics are great. It looks and plays awesome on a 52 inch 
 HDTV. The missions are great and there is tons of missiles, ships and pandemonium flashing across 
 your screen. The controls are hard to get use to but I find a custom configuration the best for 
 flawless play. BGM I really can't comment on as for 99% off games I turn it off.
  
  PS is worth the price (39.99 CDN) , and a rental will sure to please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoldaire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Project Sylpheed is a space shoot-em-up and it's one of the few space-shooters that I've enjoyed 
 playing. It gives you much variaty on how to do the objectives, whether you want to destroy the 
 main targets right at the start or just wait till you've taken out everything else, which usually 
 is the better option if you want more points. Though there are some secondary objectives that are 
 rewarded to you if you destroy the targets quickly and some are rewarded to you for destroying 
 everything before taking out the main objective.
  
  The story itself is quite breath taking. I found it really interesting from the moment I started 
 the game. The first mission was kinda messy since if you haven't done all the tutorial missions, 
 it's kinda hard for you to understand when to fire what weapons and when the weapon has enough 
 range to hit the target, expect for homing-missiles since they hit from quite far away. But I have 
 to say to that the ending boss was kinda like a rip-off from Star Wars. Not that it didn't work, 
 but it was just too much of a rip-off.
  
  The gameplay is messy at first but when you play some missions to get used to it, it's actually 
 quite accurate to real combat since in real combat, everything is messy. You can't really tell 
 when the enemy will do a corkscrew and when he decides to just go the other way. Sometimes it gets 
 really frustrating to chase the enemies at higher difficulties but when you get them, you just 
 have to say boo yea!! Gotcha!! 
  
  Project Sylpheed is an overall good space shoot-em-up. It gives you a great story and you'll spend 
 hours and hours trying to get the hardest achievements. The 1 gigaton achievement is really hard 
 to get so you'll probably be spending the most time on getting that achievement. I really recommend 
 this game to everyone who likes space arcade shooters and are fans of shooter games. There could 
 be more missions in this game, but it still took me a good 8 hours to complete this game. It's 
 a fairly good amount of time spent on completing the story just once, but there could have been 
 more missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 15, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Square Enix developed this game so that should tell you something. Also the price is only $39.95 
 and that is the PERFECT price to put on this game. There's no online play so a fifty-nine dollar 
 price tag would be too much. It's been quite some time since I played a fun space shooter. The 
 Star Trek 360 game was pretty good but it was more strategy. This game takes strategy too and you 
 have 3 other ships in your squad that you can give orders to attack, support, formation, or break 
 away. You are the leader of the squad and it's basically a FPS in a spaceship. YOu can equip your 
 ship with different weapons to go on each mission. Each mission you are given a rank on how well 
 you did and awarded credits. Then you can use these credits to power up your ship. The CGI animation 
 is a bit outdated in the story..... it looks alot like the final fantasy graphic-type characters 
 but it's ok... that's not the main part anyway. The main part of the game where you actually get 
 to play is fun especially for the price. Check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PredatorX31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is from Square Enix, the same guys that worked on the Final Fantasy series. The game 
 is immersive though, when I first saw it I didn't believe it was going to be all that great until 
 I played the demo. I went out and rented it yesterday, now I cant put it down. You can customize 
 your weapon outfits on your ship depending on the mission, whether it be dog-fighting, or bombing 
 the crap out of enemy capital ships. Although the controls may take a little getting used to, after 
 awhile it becomes second nature. Its a great futuristic shooter with RPG elements, excellent CG 
 animation and a pretty good storyline to boot. If you like fast-paced space combat with tons of 
 enemies and missles to kill them with, this one is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranginz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 1:46 am PT
Review:  This title has just been released in New Zealand this week, and I was lucky to be the first to 
 rent it from my local video store today. And beside having a good looking cover and an easy manual 
 that anyone can follow and understand, I have found very little to find it a bore to look at. When 
 you first insert the CD into the 360 your welcome by a short title screen, and then your prepared 
 to watch a 3 minute intro; of the Anime kind! Which sets it off as a great story indeed. There 
 are about 20 missions within and the game play is easy; I'm only saying that it is because I'm 
 a lover of flight sims (every played Freelancer pilots?) , and the graphics are frantic to say the 
 least! Though at times it feels like you may be spending your time just flying around and dodging 
 both bullets and plasma fire, the occassional scraping of other pilots hulls if you should want 
 to ram the enemy instead of shooting them!! But please don't ram the capital ships; its just not 
 good for your health or sanity!
  
  The only downside that I've found with this game with the graphics, is if your using a normal analog 
 CRT; your gonna be dissapointed... With so much going on ingame/ on screen you would need at least 
 a large flatscreen television with S-VGA (like most people have) , or if you can afford it a huge 
 HD-TV LCD to see every detail so as not to confuse your eyes. But besides that point most lovers 
 of flight sims and Anime will find this game refreshing, so go and strap on your jumpsuit, settle 
 your helmet, and strap yourself into your sofa! Its gonna be a bumpy ride pilots!! Ka Kite ano 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n3m3si5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I first expected Project Sylpheed to be like most other space games, big and bland but Square-enix 
 have defined something that makes me keep wanting to play on. Be it the fact that you have your 
 primary and secondry onjectives, so if your after a fast paced space shooter you can go for the 
 main objectives and complete the mission in record times or go all out and create havoc by not 
 just destroying enemy fighters but also taking out cruisers all the way up to massive battleships. 
 Nothing beats zooming towards a ship which is over a 100 times bigger than your Delta-Sabre, dodging 
 incoming laser fire from that same battleship whilst carrying a massive bomb which seriously puts 
 a dent into it's armor, even better if you take out it's shields then send it into an imploding 
 matter of large chunks of space metal.
  
  Although it feels very much like the familiar Ace Combat series which isn't a flaw but add in the 
 fact you can cut the engines even after you've hit the afterburners. Spin around at a 180 degree 
 whilst still travelling at high speed ( backwards ) and lock onto the enemy chasing you, waiting 
 for the missle counter to reach maximum load then unleashing a barrage of 22 high manuevering missles 
 that fill the screen as they swoop and swirl out the rocket pods towards your enemy. Space combat 
 has never felt so good, with the dramactic cut-scenes detailing you on the background of what's 
 really going on and you really do feel like a pawn in a chess match when it comes to the large 
 inter-galactic battles. Yet a pawn can still decimate the chess board which is were you come in 
 with your heavy weapons and long range anti-ship cannons, of course the bigger the weapons you 
 go into battle with the less mobility you have. So choosing the right armament is crucial if you 
 want to buy upgrades to your weapons and develope newer more powerful variants. Only thing that 
 i've come across that slightly disapoints me is you will occassionally get alittle slow down when 
 you have too much on screen at once, though when you move around it looks and feels like all the 
 enemies have slowed down except yourself. Also at times the screen can be cluttered with health/shield 
 bars from enemy fighters to destroyers and all of your squadren and allied fleet, however it gives 
 it that futuristic image that you know who's where and when and letting you know if you should 
 call back your wingman if thier to damaged so apart from that it's a great game to dive into. Easy 
 to pick up and play yet deep enough to keep you occupied sometimes for up to an hour on just single 
 mission alone, depending on how you want to play the game. One of the few if any space shooters 
 out there for the 360 that delivers playability for a below average price. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
