-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Project Gotham Racing 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/projectgothamracing4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous environments.
 Fun driving model and spot-on control.
 Rain effects are the best of the new weather effects.
 Buying items with kudos is a nice incentive for driving with style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Motorcycles seem overpowered.
 No reason to use underpowered cars in most events.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 72 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 2,336 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Bizarre Creations
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Oct 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gentlemen, prepare your calluses. Project Gotham 4 plays to the series' strengths and adds new twists 
 along the way. 

  With 2005's Project Gotham Racing 3, Bizarre Creations ushered in a new era of racing on the Xbox 
 360 with a game that continued the long-standing quality of its Project Gotham series with amazing 
 graphics and extensive online options. Here we are, two years later, and Bizarre has turned in 
 the fourth game in the PGR series, one that opens up the vehicles list a bit and adds to the online 
 fun, yet still follows the tried-and-true PGR formula. In short, Project Gotham Racing 4 continues 
 the series' tradition of brilliant visuals and fun gameplay, and adds to the list with new rides 
 and weather effects that must be driven to be believed.  

           Racing in the wet, in Shanghai, on two wheels: Welcome to PGR 4.      

  Weather abounds 
 in Project Gotham Racing 4. In fact, along with motorcycles (more on them in a bit) , weather is 
 one of the biggest additions to PGR 4's gameplay. Dense fog, ice and snow, and, of course, lots 
 and lots of rain are examples of the variety of weather conditions you find yourself driving through, 
 and each affects your vehicle in a different way. The most successful weather implementation in 
 the game is the rain effects.  

  Visually, it's stunning; rain droplets bounce off the hood of your car, or your windshield when 
 driving in first person view, and they'll collect into pools of standing water that become a hydroplaning 
 nightmare for your car or motorbike. In fact, pools of water strategically placed in the optimum 
 braking zones are part and parcel of the tracks the Bizarre crew has carved from real-life locales 
 such as Tokyo, Shanghai, and New York City. Find a way to brake early, or deal with the consequences 
 of slamming your car into a wall after surfing across the water. The water effects in PGR 4 are 
 entirely convincing, while the snow and ice effects are slightly less so -- only in a video game 
 would you attempt a lap of the ice-laden Nrburgring in an Enzo Ferrari and make it across the 
 finish line in one piece -- and typically pose a serious challenge for your throttle control skills. 

  While the game's weather effects are often simlike, PGR 4's car handling still treads the fine 
 line between arcade approachability and simulation depth. You can hop into a car right away in 
 the game and begin turning laps without fear of spinning out or locking your brakes in a tight 
 turn. It also helps that the car list is more varied than the "all exotics, all the time" roster 
 of PGR 3. This time around, the list has opened up a bit more to include everything from the pokey 
 Mini Cooper S to F1 replicas, and even a pickup truck. Certainly at the highest classification, 
 PGR 4's car list is as exotic as it comes; it's nice, however, that the roster includes a more 
 representative sample of low-end models this time around. As in the past, the game doesn't feature 
 vehicular damage beyond the merely cosmetic.  

  Then there are the motorcycles, which make their series debut here. As with the car list, the two-wheeled 
 choices include everything from the relatively modest Buell RR 1200 to the frighteningly powerful 
 MV Augusta F4 Senna. When it comes to handling, the motorcycles in PGR 4 have their ups and downs. 
 Bikes are extremely easy to drive -- there's no split between front and rear brakes to worry about -- and 
 it's tougher than you might think to get yourself thrown from the saddle. Toss in the fact that 
 bikes are extremely quick off the starting line (due to their power/weight ratio) and that kudos -- the 
 in-game currency you earn as a result of stylish driving in the PGR series -- are typically easier 
 to rack up on a bike than in a car (thanks to endos, wheelies, and a responsive drift model) , and 
 motorcycles seem almost overpowered.  

  True, the fastest cars in the game will typically be quicker than the bikes but, in our experience, 
 if you can grab an early lead in PGR 4 on two wheels and can maintain some consistency in your 
 laps, you'll be awfully tough to beat. Bikes have their control quirks; for instance, when coming 
 out of a turn, you'll want to let go of the analog stick in order to bring yourself back up smoothly, 
 as manually bringing your rider upright can result in serious overcorrection errors. But for the 
 most part bikes aren't much of a challenge and, as a result, aren't really as fun as we were hoping. 

  Regardless of your vehicular predilection, you will have plenty of road to drive on in this game. 
 In addition to earning medals for beating challenges in the arcade mode or turning laps in the 
 time attack mode, you'll have plenty to do in Gotham career, the anchor of the single-player mode. 
 The goal here is to become the number one driver in the world by progressing through championships 
 and invitational events strewn throughout the PGR world. The events are based around a calendar, 
 so you'll have access to only a handful of races at any given time.  

  These races comprise of a variety of the challenges -- including hot lap, cone challenges, eliminator, 
 gate challenges, kudos vs. time, and standard street races. Kudos determine your overall position 
 within a particular challenge; in addition to earning a bonus for finishing well within a race, 
 any additional kudos you earn are added to your overall score. At the end of a championship series, 
 you're awarded championship points based on your result and move up the ladder accordingly. In 
 addition, you can buy items such as new tracks and cars, and even a custom Xbox Live gamer picture, 
 with the kudos you've earned in races.  

  On the default difficulty level, we were able to win the Gotham career mode in just over three 
 calendar years (or between 10 and 15 hours in real time) ; at the hardcore level -- where the competition 
 is significantly tougher -- it will likely take a good deal longer. In addition to standard championship 
 events, you can also try out the occasional invitational, optional race challenges based around 
 a single vehicle; win the challenge, and you'll add that vehicle to your ever-growing garages. 
 Interestingly, the cars available to you for certain events can vary in total performance -- and 
 there's really no reason other than personal preference for you not to choose the most powerful 
 vehicle available to for an event.  

  While zipping your way through career mode won't take that long, the game's online play is just 
 as compelling as in the past. You can race in single and team events through a variety of race 
 types such as elimination, street race, cat and mouse, and the new bulldog mode. In our experience, 
 online performance was slick and mostly lag-free, with the game's frame rate dipping only in the 
 sharpest of corners with multiple vehicles piling up. While you're online you can even check out 
 the new PGR On Demand service, which lets you upload photos and race replays for others to watch 
 and rate. With some simple paint tools, you can even customize your cars a bit. It's not nearly 
 as extensive as the customization options in a game like Forza 2, but at least it gives you the 
 chance to give your online ride a unique flair.  

           Hope they remembered the snow tires.      

  Beyond being a fun racing series, the 
 PGR series has come to be known as a standard-bearer for visual style, and that continues in spades 
 in Project Gotham Racing 4. New locales such as Shanghai, Macau, and Quebec are all lovingly reproduced 
 in the game. Blast your way down a neon-soaked night track in Shanghai with the Oriental Pearl 
 Tower looming in the background, and you'll be hard-pressed to think of a game that has done as 
 much with urban landscapes as Project Gotham Racing 4. That level of visual quality doesn't come 
 at the expense of performance, either; again, for the most part, the game runs at a rock-steady 
 frame rate. Certainly, it's one of the most impressive-looking games of the year on the Xbox 360. 
 The soundtrack for this game is just as varied as PGR 3, featuring a healthy heaping of world, 
 rock, hip hop, jazz, and classical tunes, though the quality of the individual tracks doesn't seem 
 to be as strong as in the previous game. However, the only music gearheads will care about is the 
 roar of the engines, and thankfully PGR 4 delivers here as well, with a huge variety of authentic-sounding 
 engine sounds that change in tone and quality depending on the driving viewpoint you prefer.  

 
  With such an intense level of focus trained on the weather effects in PGR 4, it makes you wonder 
 what the team at Bizarre Creations could do if they threw their hat into the simulation ring and 
 took on the Forzas and Gran Turismos of the world at their own game. Still, that doesn't take away 
 from what Project Gotham Racing 4 is: a worthy successor to the previous games in the series and 
 a game that will create entirely new calluses on the hands of racing fans.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (116 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  Bizzare has pulled it of again with PGR4, an arcade racing game with an extreme sense of style. 
 This is accoplished via Bizzare amazing dedication to the PGR series.
  
  One thing for sure, this game feels so good to play. The controls are so well made for both cars 
 and bikes to make a more natural feel to driving. It is a game thats easy to learn and play, but 
 gets harder just when it needs to be.
  
  As in all racing games, PGR is all about winning by coming 1st... but the way it is executed is 
 a different thing. Your aim is to become the best in the world with a whole calendar and ranking 
 system starting at 72. But in this game it is not only about flooring it to the finish, but to 
 do it with style. Motorbikes are the choice for showoffs, pulling off wheelies while standing on 
 one foot and all, But do be aware you can get knocked off yout bike which balances the game. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yman173
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:15 pm PT
Review:  After reading so many good reviews, I took a shot on this title. I've never played a PGR game, 
 and with it priced at $19.99 I thought I was getting a good deal... until I brought it home and 
 realized why it was carrying the bargain bin pricetag.
  
  Ive played virtually every racing title from the Atari 2600's Enduro to the PS2's Gran Turismo, 
 and this has to be one of the clunkiest games Ive ever wasted my time with. The mechanics of the 
 cars are very difficult to get used to, especially during sharp turns (which there are a lot of 
 on the various courses) . I cant tell you how many walls I drove into while trying to find a decent 
 line. The only way I could seem to race cleanly was by slowing down to a speed that allowed the 
 CPU cars to pass. And, in this game, once you fall behind you can forget about catching-up again. 
 Even on the easier difficulty settings, it was downright maddening just to finish 3rd.
  
  There are motorcycles in this title, and the handling on those is a little tighter and easier to 
 master. But with the bikes, you have to be on a constantly perfect line. If you slow-down too much 
 or skid a little out of one turn, the CPU cars will knock you off your bike faster than you realize 
 and, once again, you can forget about catching-up to the pack once this happens.
  
  I realize there's a learning curve in every racing title. But after 4-5 hours of play time I still 
 couldnt even finish a basic race on the intermediate difficulty. While I dont profess to be an 
 expert racer like some of the Forza & Gran Turismo addicts that kick my butt regularly online, 
 I am usually able to find a comfortable way to work my way up the ranks. PGR4 just doesnt provide 
 for this sort of comfort zone. Racing titles are supposed to be challenging, not irritating.
  
  Unless youve enjoyed earlier entries into the PGR franchise, I recommend taking a pass on PGR4. 
 Titles like Forza 2 or Test Drive Unlimited are much better at what they do, and provide for a 
 fun challenge without making you want to chuck your controller out a window.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 6/10
  Music: 2/10 (There's some really irritating music in this game!)
 
  Mechanics: 1/10
  Learning Curve: 1/10
  Overall Score: 4/10
  
  Dont waste 7 hours of your time on this like I did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OB-47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Bizzare has pulled it of again with PGR4, an arcade racing game with an extreme sense of style. 
 This is accoplished via Bizzare amazing dedication to the PGR series.
  
  One thing for sure, this game feels so good to play. The controls are so well made for both cars 
 and bikes to make a more natural feel to driving. It is a game thats easy to learn and play, but 
 gets harder just when it needs to be.
  
  As in all racing games, PGR is all about winning by coming 1st... but the way it is executed is 
 a different thing. Your aim is to become the best in the world with a whole calendar and ranking 
 system starting at 72. But in this game it is not only about flooring it to the finish, but to 
 do it with style. Motorbikes are the choice for showoffs, pulling off wheelies while standing on 
 one foot and all, But do be aware you can get knocked off yout bike which balances the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigCat2K20
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 10:21 am PT
Review:  I've been playing racing games since F-Zero from Super Nintendo days. It's an genre that gamers 
 will rent it for the weekend or buy it. Some critics think that the genre itself is boring and 
 losing it's magic. I rented this game about an year half ago and it's good, fun racing game. Do 
 I think it's buy or rental? Well, Here's Project Gotham Racing 4 for Xbox 360.
  
  Pros
  Easy to control cars & motorcycle
  Career mode is very long
  Kudos by winning some race
  
 Excellent tracks from all over the world
  Weather plays an huge factor
  Sound effect of racing is good
  
  Neutral
  Good online multiplayer, but haven't play it
 
  
  Cons
  Using the motorcycle can be an hit or miss
  soundtrack on P. G. R. IV is pure trash
  Zero damage system on cars
  It gets boring after while
 
  
  I do think it's an good, but not an great racing game. There are better racing games on the market 
 you should look into such as Forza Motorsport series and GRID. It's an rental at best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiagopati
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game for a while now and don't remember a lot of details to speak of but I remember 
 that this was one of the best games I've ever played. However that pretty much makes around the 
 visual and audio experience... The playability is fun and easy to get along with but that's just 
 one of the many details that lead this game to drop a few points in my scale. The lack of simulation 
 feeling along with "around-the-calendar" races and championships make the game a circular and repetitive 
 loop of "always the same" once and again. Great while you can feel the diversity, one of the best 
 I must say again.
  Graphically without a glitch, the sound performs well, the playability does the "arcade-like" job 
 pretended for the action packed entertainment game for a while and then... Here we are again, doing 
 the same race and championship once more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  PGR4 is a racing game based around the whole world, graphics are great and highly realistic considering 
 the game was bought out soon after the 360 was..
  
  It's an arcade style racer where you choose your driver, nationality then choose your car and race!
 
  There are several different ways of racing (you unlock more as you progress in your main career) 
 these include.. elimator, street race, cone mode, hot lap and many more.
  
  One of the great features of PGR4 is you can also ride motorbikes aswell as cars.
  There is a 
 wide variety of music from classical to hip hop- you can customise which music plays through the 
 settings menu.
  
  I highly reccomend PGR4 to anybody even if you have never played or enjoyed a racer before.
  
 
  Altough the game can be tricky at first.. it seemed for the first 30 minutes I played I crashed 
 at every single corner, but with a bit of practise corners become challenging rather than fustrating.
 
  
  Two player spitscreen and online mode also makes PGR4 an appealinf game- I only tested the splitscreen 
 and found it OK- the view wasn't perfect but it was still fun to play with my mate in the same 
 room.
  
  There's a wide selection of vechiles to.. from super cars, bikes and classic cars- including minis, 
 corvettes and super bikes.
  
  I hope this review has helped- PGR4 is a great casual challenging racing game which has features 
 for everyone.
  ~gormo~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Rock
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  In PGR 4 there are 7 main modes:
  Single player modes:
  
  Arcade Mode
  Gothem Career
  Time Trial
  
  Multiplayer modes:
  
  Xbox Live
  Split Screen.
  
  Now in arcade mode 
 you get various sections and your aim is to get platinum medals in all events. You could say it 
 is simular to Forza motorsport 2s Exhibition races in this way. However in Forza they are just 
 races round 15 different tracks with the 7 AI opponents but here there are various including:
 
  
  Street races
  
  Breakthrough (checkpoint)
  
  Hot Lap (time trial) 
  
  and many others i cant think of right now.
  
  In Gothem Career your aim is to get to Rank #1 
 basicly you play events and try and win to get maximum points. Eventualy you will get higher and 
 higher and soon you may get to rank #1. You may even be able to beat steelmatt007 online (doubt 
 it) .
  
  Time trial is exactly the same as everywhere else but incase its all new to you, you race round 
 a track to see how quick you can get round.
  
  I wont focus on the multiplayer modes.
  
  If you have any questions mail 
  
  Gamertag: steelmatt007
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slashfan10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Upon getting pgr 4, i was expecting it to measure up similar or better to pgr 2. However, when 
 i started the game up, i came upon a cheezy title menu. After getting started in the career, it 
 is not divided as i had hoped in pgr2 where there are different classes, and challenges for each 
 class. You progress through the career in seasons that comprise of racing of the course of 5 months 
 or so in 3 continents. There is a calendar that is pretty useless because you just click on 'today's 
 event' and it takes you to a list of championships/events to enter anyways. If you do not do well 
 and win the cars in the car challenges you must wait until that same time the next season to try 
 again. However, if you feel that you will fail the attempt you can restart at any time in the race. 
 The game does keep its traditional kudos style points. They work well with the gameplay and really 
 make racing fun on the track. However, in career there is a maximum amount of kudos that you can 
 earn in a race (usually 3000 which you can earn by pretty much just driving anyways) that makes 
 it seem a bit frustrating and pointless with 2 laps to go and not hearing the ticking of your kudos 
 being racked up. The added element of motorcycles is an interesting mix because they race integrated 
 with the cars. If you are driving a car these are the easiest things in the world to pass, just 
 knock them off the bike and voila, first place. Aside from passing them, driving them proves a 
 bit of a challenge. It was hard for me to get used to driving on two wheels all the time, the bikes 
 to me are hard to turn and are frustrating to get down right. After you finish a season, the next 
 season just starts right up, so there doesn't seem to be any ending yet as i can tell. In the arcade 
 mode there are different categories to earn kudos medals exactly like pgr2 and 3. This was always 
 my favorite part of 2, but is something that 3 lacked heavily. In 4's arcade mode there are only 
 a few different categories, with a few challenges each, and the AI on platinum is not near what 
 it was on pgr2, so I lack a sense of real accomplishment when i dont spend more than 5-7 mins earning 
 a platinum medal. Online component felt a bit rushed in the making. The interface is terrible, 
 and the matchmaking takes forever. I cannot tell whether there is no one online or it is just waiting 
 to connect to another player. In addition, one of the main disappointments was the online component. 
 In 2, the rooms were very self explanatory as well as the kudos level of each player was portrayed 
 nicely next to their gamertag and really made you keep playing the game to keep climbing that ladder 
 to get your rank up. This is something that pgr 4 also lacks. Overall, it is a good racing game, 
 and the physics feel exactly and a little bit better than 2, but lacks that real fun aspect of 
 replay value that 2 just nailed perfectly in every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing is my favorite racing series, anyone who knows my gaming habits already knows 
 this. It is my favorite series for good reason, its beautiful, its addictive, and its fun, but still 
 on the realistic side. As the latest in the series this is naturally now my favorite racing game, 
 but let me explain why.
  
  The graphics are stunning. PGR3 already had amazing graphics and PGR4 has improved on them immensely, 
 which is a good thing because racing is a genre where graphics actually somewhat matter. The new 
 eather effects are very well done, its very cool to drive through the snow and see it batter against 
 your windshield so that your windshield wipers can wipe it off. The cockpit view is as awesome 
 as ever. The lighting effects are spectacular. The backgrounds are great. The detail put into this 
 game is amazing.
  
  The soundwork is just as good as the visuals. The muscic is from all genres but was picked out 
 well, and most people should be satisfied. The vehicles all sound great, accurate and unique. This 
 is something that is sorely overlooked in the Gran Turismo and Forza series.
  
  The gameplay is where this series really shines above Gran Turismo and Forza. It manages to stay 
 both realistic and fun, not an easy feat. I love just flying around those turns, barely making 
 it, or flying past my nemesis on the straight away. This brings me to the newly implemented ranking 
 system. Now you compete against other npc drivers from all over the world until you eventually 
 reach rank #1. This is in replacement of the traditional career mode and I think its great. Also 
 races go by a calendar now rather than just a menu screen, which is pretty cool. There are motorcycles 
 thrown in to the mix now. I personally prefer to drive the cars but I know there's some that prefer 
 the bikes, and it all seems balanced enough. The garages are back, as well as the beloved Geometry 
 Wars which makes for a good distraction. Online mode is back and as great as it was last time around. 
 This game has the best gameplay out of any racing game I've ever played.
  
  What an amazing racing game I'll tell ya. Anyone who enjoys racing games should be able to fall 
 in love with this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soulja-Foy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  PGR 4 is an exellent racing game. this time on both car and bike (motor) . PGR 4, not only does 
 it develop PGR 3 GREAT racing system. It also develops upon its career. this time round you are 
 racing for your country. Ther are four different ranks: ametuer, professional, hotshot and the 
 otherone i forget. Your trying to reach #1. Im currently #41. This time you also have a race calender 
 so you choose when to race, and you go through seasons. There are now new tracks aswell and wheather 
 conditions. Yhe tracks iclude: Michelin test track, ST Pettersburg, quebec, shanghai plus new routes 
 on the tracks from PGR 3. Also you can have any wheather settng you can imagine, well almost any, 
 exluding mega storms. There is now an absoutly huge array of cars and bikes which you buy with Kudos 
 on career or race em 4 free in custom race. So if youve read this you know you want 2 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesis1812
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  Bizzare Creations deliver yet another solid and enjoyable Project Gotham Racing installment.
  
  To begin with the game play is as great as you'll find in a racing game. The brakes and acceleration 
 work fantastically well on all the cars, as they did in PGR 2, but a word of warning: the bikes 
 can be hell to handle. In bad conditions however the cars don't react entirely realistically.
 
  
  The kudos system has also been improved since PGR3, giving you points for things that matter, such 
 as cornering.
  
  The graphics on the cars themselves are stunning, with the bodywork looking almost real, and weather 
 effects are exceptional. There is only one fault in the graphics, on a few of the tracks the backgrounds 
 are very dull and lack detail, some areas consist of just a gray sky. This isn't hugely important, 
 but can be frustrating on such a great looking game.
  
  Another disapointment in the graphics however is the damage modelling, which is as good as removed 
 entirely, making the seem unrealistic when you hit a wall at 190 mph.
  
  The career mode is also thrilling, in which you must climb the ranks of drivers, competing in many 
 tournaments, and the AI puts up an excellent fight.
  
  There are a vast amount of cars and bikes to purchase, which is very pleasing. Another pleasing 
 touch is the mileometer, which changes depending on yor car, and they look great when you gain 
 the better performance cars.
  
  The in game sounds such as engines anr also great, but it has to be said the music is awful. Other 
 than these small flaws the game is near perfect and I definitley recommend any racing fan picks 
 it up, one of the best racers on the system by far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcrypto
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  My expectations were exceeded with this game. It is not so much a simulator like Forza Motorsport 
 3, but arcade like and fun. I love the cities you can race in. You can go through Las Vegas at 
 night with all the bright neon lights. The weather effects are nice too and have a real impact 
 on your racing. I'm not thrilled with the cars you start out with, but they are way better than 
 PGR3. The graphics in this game really stand and the motorcycles add a real element of fun. You 
 can participate in career mode or arcade mode. The definite 'meat' to the game is in career mode 
 though. I haven't tried the online play so I can't rate that, but I assume it would be acceptable. 
 The control scheme works and you can press the 'A' button to do some nice handbrake drifts. The 
 game is definitely worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorberg02
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Been playing a bit of PGR4 over the last couple of days. Bizarre Creations have fixed everything 
 I hated about PGR3. So far, I am happily impressed. The cars are wonderful. The bikes are fun. 
 The Kudos system has been eased back a little and actually commends you on things that matter, 
 like taking turns properly. The physics have been toned down from the insanity of the rushed piece 
 of trash that was PGR3. They're actually more in the vein of my favorite game in the series (and 
 likely my favorite racer period) , PGR2, which beautifully toed the line between sim and arcade 
 physics.
  
  I love torque monsters like the Chevy Stingray and the Mercedes CLK DTM AMG which just spin their 
 tires in 2nd and 3rd gear.
  
  The weather effects are astonishing. Watching replays of races in the rain, you can catch upclose 
 shots of rain slick hoods which are so DEAD ON REAL that it is simply stunning.
  
  The cars don't behave EXACTLY as one would expect in adverse conditions such as rain, and particularly 
 snow, but they still react admirably realistically, where you still need to brake earlier and take 
 it easier with the gas to avoid spins and fishtails. There are also standing pools of water, as 
 well as ice patches in both respective weather conditions, and they are placed in crucial braking 
 zones, so you may often find yourself sliding uncontrollably into a barrier instead of gracefully 
 powering through a tight left hander. These pools of water and ice patches pose a significantly 
 unique challenge to racing in adverse weather beyond the obviously decreased levels of traction.
 
  
  I like how the career mode has done away with the medal system, and you can now win championships 
 without necessarily being in 1st place. I'm playing on Hardcore difficulty, and some of these events 
 are brutally difficult. One in particular is the new mode called "Time vs. Kudos", where you need 
 to beat a lap in some retarded short period of time and you can stop the clock by performing Kudos-scoring 
 maneuvers such as slides, etc. Unfortunately, I didn't have the MAD SKILLZ necessary to place 1st 
 in that event, and instead placed 3rd. But I still managed to place 2nd in the overall championship, 
 so I was still content. This makes the game a lot more accessible than in PGR2 where playing on 
 Platinum required you to place 1st in every single event.
  
  The graphics, as mentioned above, are killer. I love looking at every inch of it (especially in 
 1080p) . The cars are perfect, the tracks look wonderful, people stand at the sidelines cheering 
 you on and the rain is incredible. My only gripe is the absence of damage modeling. But at least 
 they removed it altogether, rather than the half assed nonsense they tried with PGR3, where plowing 
 headon into a concrete barrier resulted in a cracked headlight and a dimpled bumper. As in PGR3, 
 every car interior is modeled after the real life counterpart, which I still find simply incredible. 
 The only nitpick I have is that there's no animation for the shifter when shifting gears. Not that 
 you should really be looking in that direction when you're going 150mph, but still.
  
  Overall, it's a lot of fun. Street racing is still street racing, the AI is brutal and drives perfectly, 
 and it's just as thrilling to pass the 1st car at a bend and then just leaving him for dead on 
 a straightaway. Is it as good as PGR2? Nah, but that's because that game holds a certain old-school 
 charm by now, and a special place in my heart (if not because of the hundreds of hours I've poured 
 into it beating every event on Gold and Platinum.) But it's still Goddamn close and does things 
 graphically PGR2 couldn't hold a candle to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJordan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Bizarre Creations. One of the masters of the arcade racing genre. They have 6 years of experience 
 in the genre under their belt. From Metropolis Street Racer on the Dreamcast to Project Gotham 
 Racing 3 on the 360, they've all been hits. Bizarre have spent 2 years developing the newest version 
 here, and as usual, a lot has changed.
  
  One tradition that has been kept for the PGR series is having a Ferrari on the cover. MSR had an 
 Opel on the cover, but that doesn't count. And the much-loved Kudos system still remains; but this 
 time, it's more important than ever.
  
  But one tradition has been broken. Motorbikes are now in the game. Bizarre have decided to follow 
 the Test Drive Unlimited approach, but has it worked, or is this a motorway accident with all the 
 lanes coned off?
  
  In PGR3, the Career mode required you to race a huge load of races split into sections with 5 different 
 medals to win in each race. In PGR4, that's now known as Arcade mode. The new Career mode is known 
 as the Kudos World Series. In this mode, you will be racing in tournaments varying in championship 
 level, where the aim of the game is to earn points in the tournaments to climb up the ranks. You'll 
 also come across the odd challenge or two where you can win new cars/bikes or even wildcard entries 
 into tournaments of your choice, which is essential when you're in the lower ranks, but sadly, 
 these wildcard challenges still pop up, even when you're in the highest level of rankings.
  
  The challenges are pretty varied when you're racing for a new car or bike. You'll be doing 
 one-on-ones, Kudos challenges, and even wheelie challenges! The challenges side of the mode will 
 keep you racing even after you've reached the top rank, because if you haven't won a challenge, 
 you'll have to wait next year in the calendar to take it again. These challenges do contain some 
 vehicles that are vital to each class if you plan to try and dominate in the Live ranks.
  
  Speaking of which, the vehicle classes now go from A - G, instead of the old A - E. I think we're 
 all glad that Bizarre dropped the "Life begins at 170" motive, where some cars in PGR3 were artificially 
 made to go 170MPH (the Mini Cooper, for example) , and so it made the game unrealistic. Now, there 
 are cars that will struggle to even get into triple figures. It's all good though, because it brings 
 variety into the game.
  
  The gameplay isn't entirely perfect, though. Kudos is now more important than ever. It's the game's 
 form of credits, which you need to earn to buy cars, tracks, helmets, and even a gamer picture! 
 That's not the problem, though. The problem is that Kudos is now key to winning races. Even though 
 you finish in 1st place, you might now get 1st place, because someone else has earned more Kudos 
 than you. This can be very annoying if it happens to you. It's minor, though. It's very hard to 
 beat someone that way, especially when there's a Kudos limit on races, usually 3000 Kudos. Once 
 you've hit the limit in a race, you don't earn any more for your moves, so you then have to focus 
 on speed.
  
  The track list is huge now, but sadly, it's PGR3 with four new cities, one of which has been brought 
 back from PGR2. The new cities consist of Quebec, the resurrected St. Petersburg, Macau, and Shanghai. 
 There is also the Michelin Test Track, which is great for honing your skills. There are three different 
 tracks on the Michelin Test Track: a "skid pan", where you slide round a figure-of-eight marked 
 out by cones, a high-speed oval, which sadly, isn't long enough for you to reach top speeds on 
 most of the Class A cars, and the test track itself, which has five different routes varying in 
 length and difficulty. Put all that together, and you have a total of 10 cities in the game, which 
 makes up for a huge track list, that's about as big as PGR2, which contained 12 cities!
  
  The cars handle very well, and are pretty realistic, even though it isn't meant to be. There's 
 over 100 vehicles in the game, the majority of them cars. You'll be driving the cream of the crop 
 when it comes to the Class A cars. In this class are such legends as the Koenigsegg CCX (which 
 is the fastest car round the Top Gear Test Track) , the Ferrari FXX (a modified Enzo) , the SSC Ultimae 
 Aero TT (the fastest car in the world) , the Caparo T1 (a road-legal F1 car) , and even the iconic 
 McLaren F1 LM. Sadly, still no Bugatti Veyron, so only the richest people in the world, and the 
 Top Gear boys are still the only people to experience it.
  
  Then we come to the bikes. They do have advantages in the game, though. You can earn Kudos more 
 easily, they always have the advantage off the line, but they have disadvantages. You have to brake 
 earlier, the top speeds don't come near the cars, and you can fall off, which costs you vital seconds. 
 Part of me likes the addition of bikes to the game, I must admit. Only because you can knock your 
 opponents off them when you're in a car!
  
  One of my favourite changes to the game is the weather. That may sound dull, but stay with me on 
 this one. There is a dynamic option, where the weather will change, depending on what the weather 
 is actually like in the city itself. This is done thanks to The Weather Channel, who feed updates 
 into the game. You can also choose the weather yourself. The choices include Clear, Rain, Storm, 
 Snow, Fog, and even Ice. And boy, do they change the gameplay. In the rain, puddles are scattered 
 across the track, which when run on, will cause your vehicle to lose speed, or if you're turning, 
 simply spin out most of the time. You can tell if you've hit a puddle thanks to a strong vibration 
 from the controller. The hazards only get worse in the Storm and Ice settings. There aren't any 
 hazards like that in Snow, but the entire track is dangerous. You have to go round with caution, 
 especially if you're in a supercar, because they have a tendency to spin out often. All this is 
 great, though. It increases the amount of skill required to play the game, and can produce some 
 unpredictable results at times. What can I say? They're almost perfect. The vehicles are jaw-droppingly 
 amazing to look at. And it's improved even more with the fact that you've can see the inside of 
 every car, like the previous installment. The interior of each car is completely accurate down 
 to the last detail. A lot of effort has been put into this part of the game. Sadly, there still 
 isn't 60FPS gameplay. Turn 10 Studios cracked this feature effortlessly on the second outing of 
 the Forza Motorsport series, whilst Bizzare is five games in, and they've always been at the half 
 way point. This shouldn't really put you off the game, but it is a bit disappointing to still not 
 have PGR at life-speed.
  
  The sounds of the vehicles are pretty impressive, even though the game's default settings are to 
 drown out the revs with music (and bad music most of the time) . Speaking of which, the soundtrack 
 is disappointing, to be honest. The music is split up into playlists for each genre, but most of 
 them are awful. There's world music, which is best if you pretend it doesn't exists. There's the 
 antichrist, known as hip-hop. There are two rock genres, though, but most of the songs in there 
 aren't exactly what you call proper rock. What's even worse is that one of the worst songs in the 
 alternative playlist is key to getting one of the achievements in the game.
  
  There are a few good songs in the soundtrack, but only a few. The majority of them are in the classical 
 section, which is a first. At least now, not only can you choose what playlists to play, you can 
 even go into the playlists and choose what tracks you'd like to hear. It's good, but not good enough. 
 Do yourself a favour here, and make a custom playlist for yourself. You'll be better off.
  
  Online gameplay is just as good as playing on your own. The lobbies are good, but sadly, still 
 only up to 8 players online. One thing I don't understand is why they have a sort of "pre-lobby" 
 section when someone starts up a room. Then the host chooses to go to the lobby, where everyone 
 suits up for the race.
  
  One downside to online play though is a couple of options in the lobby that make the gameplay much 
 harder if you're a n00b. These options force you to use the in-car view, which doesn't sound like 
 much, but it gets worse when the other option is activated, which forces you to use manual gears! 
 This is tough, especially if you have your music on full blast, because you can only see the revs 
 from the vehicle interior, and in most of the cars, it's almost impossible to determine when to 
 change gears purely by sight. Take caution when playing online if you want to avoid this.
  
  Team gameplay is now included in the game as well. Not Cat and Mouse mode, like PGR3. I mean 
 team racing. Basically, just race as usual, but the team with the most Kudos at the end wins. Another 
 thing you might like to know is that if you don't have all the vehicles in the game, don't worry. 
 As long as you're in a room where the host has the cars, you can use them, which levels the playing 
 field for everyone.
  
  PGR4 is by far the best in the series, despite the recycled tracks, the increased Kudos hype, and 
 the bad soundtrack. This game contains some of the best cars in history, some of the best gameplay 
 in a racing game, and some of the craziest achievements ever. I won't spoil them for you, but if 
 you look at the pictures of the secret achievements online, you can get some clues as to what is 
 required for them. This all adds to the brilliant gameplay, and it's also a bit of a nightmare 
 to the achievement whores, so everyone is happy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robtats94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  I have been on many racing games like need for speed, forza, juiced but the Project gotham series 
 i think is better than all of them. In project gotham 4 the detail to cars and environment is astounding, 
 There is a massive choice of cars and bikes to drive and loads of circuits. 
  
  The controls are easy to master and the career is long but not to hard (well it depends on the level 
 you chose) . The online game modes like team racing and tournements really takes advantage of the 
 games gameplay.
  
  The game is also very addictive.
  
  overall its worth buying.
  
  graphics 9/10
  gameplay 10/10
  overall 9.5/10
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limpbizkit818
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  The first Project Gotham Racer not being launched along side either a system or XBL is finally 
 here. And while it may not live up to past expectations, PGR4 is able to hold its head high above 
 the surplus of mediocre racers on the Xbox 360. 
  The first thing you will notice about PGR is its implementing of racer personalities. Upon starting 
 up the game you are asked to create a racer and to pick out a helmet, cloths and a paint jobs. 
 Your character will be put up against other racers in the Gotham career mode to see who the best 
 in the world is. The game wants you to feel like each person in the career has they own driving 
 style. Sadly, this feature falls flat on its face. You never really notice any difference between 
 the racers; they still feel just like lifeless CPU's. But that doesn't put a hamper on the whole 
 mode, the race types do. These modes, like Time Vs Kudos, Superstar, and Cone Sprint also become 
 a problem in the Arcade mode. They're flat out not fun and it feels like Bizarre Creations just 
 put them in as fillers. And it wouldn't be that bad if these modes didn't come up too often but 
 you wind up racing through cones to beat the clock more then you do racing other cars. The Career 
 mode is fun to play through once but after you become #1 in the world there is no real incentive 
 to keep playing. Sure you can try to rank up more Kudos to unlock all the vehicles in the shop 
 but it's not worth the time (or the 5 Gamerpoints) . It also doesn't help that the game only gives 
 you 5 limited garages to store the hundreds of cars in the game. And yes, Kudos are back and better 
 then ever. For those of you that have never played a PGR game before, Kudos are simply style points. 
 You gain Kudos by drifting, performing tricks on a bike, drafting behind other cars and so on. 
 Kudos also act as in-game currency and are vital to your placement in championships. 
  The Arcade mode feels just about the right length at 10 Chapters with 6 events each. 40 events 
 can be done with both a car and bike, which are new to PGR. The bikes take some time to get used 
 to and feel like a gimmicky addition to the franchise. The bikes just don't handle like they should 
 (see Moto GP 2007) . While they do have great acceleration any top tier car will always beat a bike 
 in a race if the drivers have about the same skill level. 
  This is about where my complaints end. The racing itself is fun to say the least. The new weather 
 system worked out beatify; seeing Quebec covered in snow or driving over the Brooklyn Bridge in 
 a severe thunder storm will take your breath away. All of the cities from PGR3 return and look 
 better than ever before along with newcomers Quebec, St Petersburg, Shanghai, Macau and the Michelin 
 Test Track. All present new challenges and new thrills and fit perfectly into the PGR family. Cat 
 and Mouse is back and is still one of the best online race modes ever conceived. One person on 
 each team is the mouse and they are force to use a slow car. All the other teammates have fast 
 cars and are considered cats and the first mouse to cross the finish line wins. Sound simple? Well, 
 that's because it is. Simple and fun is what makes Cat and Mouse shine along with the new Bulldog 
 mode. Think of it like a zombie mode from an FPS game. One player has to tag the other racers and 
 once he does, they become a bulldog. All the cars being chased have to try and stay un-tagged until 
 time runs out. The only thing wrong with the online component of PGR (which also includes online 
 championships which tie right into your single player career) is the lack of people playing. PGR 
 was totally overlooked last holiday season and has never been able to accumulate a large fan base. 
 But that doesn't mean no one is online; around 30 people will qualify for the daily tournaments. 
 While even less will actually play in these tournaments it's a guarantee that a handful of dedicated 
 racers will show up for the final every day. 
  To sum up to other notable features: Gotham TV lets users upload videos and pictures to be viewed 
 by friends and the whole Gotham community. This is a great addition that seems to be on its way 
 of becoming mandatory in a post-Xbox Live world. The other feature is DLC which includes a free 
 roam mode and some new cars and bikes. The new vehicles are worth the very cheap $5 price tag and 
 so are the challenge packs that come along with them (don't forget the 250 Gamerpoints) . Two of 
 the packs are easy and use all the new vehicles and the last Platinum pack is excessively difficult. 
 
  While it may seem that I ripped on the game quite a lot I can not say enough how much fun the core 
 gameplay is. Sure, some of the new features don't live up to there full potential but that doesn't 
 stop PGR4 from really standing in front of the curve. While I would be reluctant to recommend this 
 game to someone who has completely played PGR3 I would gladly give a copy to someone who has not. 
 From the way the weather looks and directly effects the gameplay to the outstanding online modes 
 and arcade racing PGR4 is a game that should never have been missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rutulno1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 4, the following sequel to PGR 3 (obviously) . I just said that to make this 
 review look longer than it actually will be. So now to actually talk to about the racing game that 
 got an 8.5 from Gamespot. 
  
  PGR 4 is not very different from all the other usual racing games... it follows the same method 
 that makes it a normal racing game. You know, buy a car at first... tune it up a little bit then 
 drive to win money to buy new cars and bikes. That's an addition to this games that is worth mentioning... bikes. 
 Many games that I play only have cars, but a wide selection of them. PGR 4 has a wide selection 
 of cars and bikes, which are all tuned against each other so it makes the game fair to play. By 
 that I mean that some cars are faster than bikes and some bikes are faster than cars. Bikes are 
 really fun to play with because the graphics and the driving views all make you feel as it you 
 are riding the bike. To make the game more special than it actually is, is to buy a small fan. 
 I did this and I had an experience that I have never had before. I plugged in a small but strong 
 fan and let ma friend handle all the buttons, then I started a race with a bike. I think you know 
 what I did, every time I increased in speed, ma friends pushed a button with a higher number... It 
 felt no different than riding an actual bike. But that feeling was of course with a personal touch... other 
 wise its pretty okay, just like riding a car.
  
  Another thing that I felt the creators worked really hard at are the weather effects. Rain, fog, 
 snow, you name it, it's there. The weather effect really effects you while you drive. Unlike any 
 other racing games, if it rains and you turn when there happens to be a puddle you will have a 
 big chance of slipping. If there is a lot of snow, you might skid and fall of your bike or loose 
 control of your car... but that rarely happened to me because I am a careful driver ;) . Again the 
 fan experience with the selection of rain will make it a whole new experience. I think that the 
 creators are so pleased with their work on the weathering that they even make it rain at the main 
 menu.
  
  Graphics, as I may have already mentioned, are really good almost as good as Forza 2. Not much 
 else to say about the graphics, except the usual; makes you feel like you are actually surrounded 
 by buildings and trees, and that you feel like you are actually riding the car/bike.
  
  All in all, a great game if you are into cars and bikes. Otherwise PGR 3 or Forza would be good 
 enough.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Visual Effects: 9/10 
  
  Overall: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklarmer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  To be honest I wasn't expecting much of an improvement from PGR3, but 4 certainly surprised me. 
 Firstly Kudos to Bizarre for doing what a lot of devs aren't man enough to do; refining the car 
 list and not including pointless cars no one ever uses. 
  Graphically PGR4 has certainly improved, the weather effects both inside and outside the cockpit 
 are pretty spectacular combined with a very high standard of car and bike modelling make PGR4s 
 overall visuals some of the best seen this gen.
  The handling of cars is certainly more realistic than PGR3 and the dynamic weather adds the variety 
 3 lacked as well as adding some rather evil ice patches and puddles in braking zones, this definitely 
 breaks up the monotonous circuit racing that is common in this genre.
  The Career mode is well thought out, making you choose a vehicle to use for a series of events, 
 this means some thought must go into choosing a ride if the championship has a combination of Kudos 
 and hot lap/race events. The introduction of bikes again adds more variety and most do have their 
 uses in arcade and career mode as well as making some fairly comical accident photos. The photo 
 mode certainly encourages you to drive in style and capture those magic moments which you can share 
 online as well as voting on photos other drivers have taken. 
  Overall PGR4 is a great improvement on 3 and just edges out 2 to be my favourite of the series 
 so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inoperativeRS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  The PGR series has been close to my heart for a long time. During the early days of the xbox I 
 was looking for a solid racing game for the console and PGR was essentially the only one available 
 at the time. I bought it and ended up loving it. I anticipated PGR2 thinking it would be a similar 
 game with better graphics and online. It wasn't. PGR2 still stands today as one of my favorite 
 driving games of all time. Everything about the first PGR was improved upon and for the first time 
 Bizarre truly found the right spot between simulation and arcade in the driving physics. PGR3 went 
 a different route and while it is an enjoyable game it's not as excellent as PGR2 for many different 
 reasons. Which brings me to PGR4.
  
  PGR4 is the first PGR not developed under any time constraints. The first PGR was an xbox launch 
 game, the second one part of the first wave of xbox live enabled titles ever released, the third 
 one an xbox 360 launch title. This can be seen in many areas of the game, for example there's a 
 plethora of new features introduced into the game. If PGR2 was the series first adventure into 
 online gaming PGR4 is the real expedition, bringing a set of community devices almost rivalling 
 those of Halo 3. There's screenshot uploading, a whole community webpage with all the statistics 
 you could ever want and matchmaking. There's new gamemodes and FREE downloadable content, there's 
 more cities than ever before in a PGR game rendered with an almost ridiculous attention to details. 
 There's 2 full fleshed single player "campaigns" both long enough to warrant their own game.
  
  In traditional PGR style the game also looks absolutely fantastic. While the cars and the environments 
 all are up there among the graphical elite of driving games it's the lightning which really stands 
 out. Again the attention to detail is astounding. The gameplay has undergone an actually fairly 
 ambitious and drastic change PGR veterans will notice at once. It can be called a natural evolution 
 continuing the change started in PGR3 or a complete overhaul compared to PGR2 but in the end it 
 still delivers. The initial feeling of doubt is quickly swooped away.
  
  For beginners of the series this is a game that might strike you dumbfounded as to what people 
 actually see in it. For it is in the end the simplicity which lifts PGR over other driving game 
 series. There's no tuning, limited painting of the cars, no story, no real "money" or experience 
 acquired, no rewards thrown at the player to make him feel himself appreciated. One could go as 
 far as to say the PGR series is one of the few if not the last driving game series relying completely 
 on the very core of the experience it should deliver:
  
  The "fun" of driving cars. And PGR4 delivers more than any other driving game I've played since 
 PGR2, possible ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ISQ93
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  The PGR series have taken a good twist. In 2005, PGR 3 was released as a launch title for the Xbox 
 360. Now, two years later, Bizarre Creations releases PGR 4 also for the Xbox 360. This time the 
 game features motorcycles, dynamic weather effects, and more cities. The soundtrack is amazing 
 with artists like Lupe Fiasco, My Chemical Romance, and Mozart. Between the weather effects, the 
 rain is by far the best and more convincing. The snow its pretty good also. The fog needs improvement 
 but its also great. The story mode is long and it will keep you entertained for hours. The multiplayer 
 is fun but not so solid like Forza Motorsport 2. Overall this is a very solid arcade racer that 
 delivers more than you can imagine. If you are looking for a racing game that combines arcade with 
 style then look no further because Project Gotham Racing 4 its the one that really hits the spot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liamb303
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing has always been a amazing game right through from 1 to 4 it has delivered 
 amazing graphics and amazing multiplayer and the latest installment doesnt dissapoint.
  
  The people at bizzare studios have taken a big twist on "Gotham Career" mode this time with more 
 of an organized approach to the many various races and Cone Challenges you must tackle over the 
 campaign, in the previous games you would pick a city and do an event, where as in Gotham Racing 
 4 You have your own "HQ" with your Time Table Garage ETC.
  
  This helps to add the effect of an actual "Campaign" mode not just a random sequence of Races
 
  
  Now moving on to the cars (And now bikes) , Like always bizzare studious have taken full use of 
 the 360's Downloadable Content feature so really their is no limit to what cars and bikes their 
 are.
  
  Even without DLC this game still has an amazing set of wheels that will keep you busy for ages 
 from "Road Legal" F1 Cars to the Gumpert Apollo (For any of you who watch Top Gear) to the 90's 
 "Rocket" Car
  
  I would love to tell you about the amazing Multiplayer but unfortunatly i cant, Their is no one 
 playing it!
  
  Conclusion
  PGR4 is an Amazing Racing Game with amazing cars and tracks, the only problem is the lack of people 
 playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zetona
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Pros: Superb graphics; large selection of cars and bikes; cars feel realistic without feeling overly 
 sim-like; huge variety of race customization options; Geometry Wars is included. 
  
  Cons: Career mode is a disappointment; bikes are not fun to drive.
  
  
  This game won't necessarily 
 seem too good at first play. Yes, the cars handle good; yes, the graphics are good, but it just 
 seems like a plain old racer. The career mode is pretty much just a series of races and championships 
 without much embellishment. Also, the bikes in the game handle horribly. They all seem much too 
 twitchy and hard to steer straight, especially when doing tricks (though that is probably to be 
 expected.) The brakes are horrible as well, and the bikes do not corner well at all. 
  
  However, strip away the career mode and the bikes, and the custom race option in PGR4 makes the 
 game. You can choose any of the huge selection of cars and tracks, all incredibly detailed. You 
 can choose any of the superb-looking and race-altering weather effects. Creating your own race 
 with its own unique challenge is really the best part of this game. You can create a shootout between 
 two ultra-fast cars, where the only obstacle is the mass of slow cars that can determine the winner; 
 you can create a high-intensity oval race with a field of overpowered tank-like Cadillacs; you 
 can do basically anything, and it all ends up being really fun. In fact, I think I'm going to play 
 PGR4 right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICEcoffee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I was keen to get my hands on PGR4, even before it came out. I remembered fondly the hours of online 
 fun I had with PGR2, which was the last one I owned on Xbox.
  
  I read the previews, things seemed to be shaping up nicely. I got my copy through the post on day 
 of release, and couldn't wait to get the wrapping off and the game into the 360.
  
  It was great nosing around tall the options. There are tonnes of menus and this will keep you confused 
 for a while, not the best menu system I've come across.
  
  I got this game mailnly for the online racing as opposed to the single player arcade or career 
 modes. Back then trying to get a race going was very frustrating, particularly if you select the 
 'ranked match' options. you could easily kill 20 mins waiting. That was then, today, it still takes 
 a while, perhaps up to five minutes. The problems back then I suspect, was to do with not many 
 racers online from day one.
  
  I have spent quite some time on both arcade mode, career mode and online racing. All is very enjoyable, 
 and although PGR is not a sim like Forza, there is a notible difference in the cars in the various 
 classes, which will require time to master.
  
  I really like the tracks on PGR4, thay are all great and offer different challenges. London and 
 Quebec are my favorites, as well as the technically challenging Macau.
  
  The cars themselves are gorgeous and whilst bits do not fly off the cars and damage drivability 
 (as per Forza) , your car can be visibly damaged, such as being scraped, dented and smashed windows 
 etc.
  
  The weather effects are excellent both visually and how it affects your driving, amazing, I think 
 the developers done a really good job on this.
  
  The other details that are noteworthy (from my point of view) , is the replay and photo modes. These 
 are both really well implimented too. I can replay a race, take a photo of it, download it from 
 the official website, and have it as my wallpaper within five minutes. COOL. I've even printed 
 a few of the best ones out and framed them on my wall.
  
  All in all, ease of use and playability is not as good as PGR2, but the graphics, online gameplay 
 and single player, is a lot of fun, and can appeal to both the novice and hardcore arcade racing 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  PGR4 is in one word "great" it has fantastic graphics great physics and kudos like the other PGRS 
 but this time its not came of as well as the previous few for example pgr4 has no porsches and 
 has included bikes into the game which we did not need. The career is where the game falls down 
 its just not that fun the AI on normal are hard to beat and are just annoying but once you race 
 on snow or in the rain you see that this game looks visually stunning and in my own opinion GT5 
 good i mean the rain going down the window looks like real rain drops and the road when wet looks 
 like a real wet road its incredible to look at and the 360s racing graphical king so far.
  
  The mp is a lot of fun bulldog is huge laugh and is very addictive to play with friends its 
 really what pgr4 does best and is probaly going to be your main reason to keep it in your collection 
 and the other gamemodes will suit anyone who just want to have a laugh.
  
  pros
  fantastic graphics
  snow and rain really make it more fun
  great car choices like the DMC or 
 60s mini or the f40 ferrari
  
  cons
  career not that much fun
  needs more cars
  bikes are quick but were not needed
  
  verdict
  pgr4 is a great game with stunning graphics 
 but its poor career puts a dent on an other wise great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mervyn1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  For the person who does not like races that can last for ever and wants some short sharp tests 
 of speed, skill and arrogance then PGR4 is for you.
  
  Rev your engine and impress the spectators for the kudos that will carry you up the rankings to 
 first place, and just when you think it's about driving fast and pulling handbrake turns then guess 
 again. In PGR4 the new weather system means for the first time that you have to have driving skill 
 aswell as a willingness to keep your pedel to the metal, from sun, heavey rain and even ice keeping 
 on the roads and out of barriers is very important no longer can you drift around the corner and 
 using the side wall to keep you on track and in the lead, not only will you be vastly slowed down 
 but the kudos points that you were getting sliding around that corner will be lost and a penalty 
 of 1 second before you can start getting kudos again.
  
  This time you can be on a bike and it can put you in an advantage or disadvantage, yes you fall 
 off your bike if you time your breaking wrong or run into the side of the car as you go around 
 the corner but cornering is easier for the bike well for the most part it is on a short track trying 
 to stay insome cones it puts you at a disadvantage.
  
  If you like to stop and gaze at your car or bike as you fly through the air then you can pause 
 and take a photo of the amzing flight. you can visit your fav cars in your garage when ever you 
 want or hone your skills on your own private test track.
  
  all in all a great game that keeps races short and sharp and varried. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZJM9
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  This game sounds and looks amazing. It is very fun to play. I'm not a fan of simulation racers 
 but I love PGR. It is the game that I was looking for when I bought Forza 2. If you can, I would 
 buy PGR 3. You get it for under $10 and PGR 4 is around $20-$30. The motrocycles are fun to drive 
 and add a new experience to the Project Gotham world. Also, the fact that your screenshot could 
 be hanging in my in-game garage or vice-versu, is really cool. It's little things like these that'll 
 make you say "wow". This game pays alot of attention to detail while performing well. Also, the 
 soundtrack is fairly good. If you are looking to get achievments quickly, I got four achievments 
 in my first race playing on normal! Some achievments will take a long time to get, but every game 
 has that one achievment you'll never get so don't be too worried about the fact that there are 
 two or three achievments that could take weeks or months of playing to achieve. Once you get the 
 hang of this game, it is hard to put down. There is little downloadable content but there isn't 
 much to add to such a masterpiece. If you can find someone to play online with you, this game is 
 even more of a blast. This is probably the best simulation racer out there. You can actually control 
 your car around corners. Customization would've been nice but let's not push it. Buy this or PGR 
 3 and hope for PGR 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first tossed PGR 3 into my Xbox 360 a couple years ago, I was floored by how polished and 
 fun that game was. I was one of the few people that had never played this series before, as I stuck 
 to the more Forza-style of racing game. I just found PGR 3 the perfect balance between the arcade 
 style racing game and more 'sim-style' (such as Forza or Gran Turismo) racing game. The only problem 
 I had with that game, and for this genre in general, is the repetitive nature of the single-player 
 game. While Project Gotham Racing 4 tries to change up the single-player experience in this release, 
 it still comes off as repetitive and might even turn some people off to the game. And the addition 
 of motorcycles really didn't do much for the gameplay either. So what we have here is PGR 3 with 
 a new, fresh coat of paint and a lot of weather effects.
  
  As I stated, the single player side of PGR 4 is spend in the new career mode. This mode is a bit 
 different than most career modes in racing games. It's built around going through a 'season' much 
 like in Nascar racing. For each tournament that you participate in, you gain points depending on 
 how you do in the tourney. The better you do, the more points you get. As you go through seasons, 
 you move up the rankings and eventually become the #1 ranked racer in the world. Along the way, 
 you accumulate tons of the game's trademark (Kudos, of course) that you can spend in the shop to 
 purchase new cars, tracks, etc.
  
  I will give Bizzare Creations credit for trying something different here, but it doesn't really 
 make a repetitive career mode structure any better & there are some people who will really NOT 
 like this. The main difference is that you can't go back and redo races after you have finished 
 them. You can in the arcade mode, but not in career mode. So for you guys who loved to do a race 
 and then give it another shot on a higher difficulty after, you might get irritated with this. 
 I actually found it nice to have it this way, but I really didn't like it enough to forget about 
 the fact that I am still going from race to race just like in PGR 3.
  
  And due to how the mode is structured, you don't even have to win many races to move up in the 
 rankings. You could just finish 2nd, 3rd or whatever you wanted and you still get points. Sure 
 it would take you longer to move up in the ranks, but you will move up steadily. The game also 
 really pushes you past the need to use the lower ranked cars in the game. I have used maybe ten 
 cars and motorcycles total in my whole time playing the game. Oh and about those motorcycles.....
 
  
  This was an obviously much-talked about addition to this game, but I didn't really think it changed 
 the game all that much. Sure it was fun to use them, at first, but I liked using the cars better. 
 The funny part is trying to see how much it takes to actually knock someone off their bike. I would 
 sideswipe walls many times only to keep on driving. It almost takes someone running you down or 
 you going face first into a wall going about 80 mph to get you off your bike. While that is kinda 
 nice due to how people would smash you all over the track online, it's very unrealistic. And the 
 only real advantage of using the bikes is the huge acceleration and nice cornering, but they lose 
 on any track that has long straight aways due to the lower top speed. In general, they are fun 
 to use but don't bring a whole lot to the game.
  
  Another addition is the new weather effects. Now these actually DO change the way the game is played 
 quite drastically. They also look fantastic, but more on that later. As you are playing through 
 the game, you will run into different kinds of weather that really change the way you race and 
 even what car you should use. If you try taking a hard-to-handle, low-grip car out on an icy track..... you 
 are going to be in trouble. I think the coolest effect are the puddles you hit while going along 
 that make your car hydroplane when you aren't expecting it. It can really change a race, as the 
 CPU (and other humans, obviously) can catch up quite quickly if you go into a wall due to hitting 
 a large puddle at 150 mph.
  
  As usual, the online play is pretty good and will keep you busy for awhile if you get into it. 
 You can also take pictures and have them rated online. You can do the same with video replays. 
 And you can't beat walking into your garage and finding a new 'Geometry Wars' game to play. Of 
 course, it kicked my @ss more than 'Evolved' did. Here's hoping the game comes to XBLA soon.
  
  As for the visuals, the new weather effects look outstanding. The rain, in particular, is absolutely 
 distracting as you watch it on your hood. The game, as a whole, looks very nice. It's not the jump 
 in quality I was hoping for, but the game looks nice overall. The cars could use a little more 
 work and when will ever get real damage on these vehicles?!! The cities also looked good, but a 
 lot of the time, I felt like I was playing PGR 3 again due to some of the same tracks making another 
 appearance here.
  
  The audio in the game is somewhat disappointing. The sound of the cars and the effects while racing 
 are all solid, as usual. My problem is with the music selection. Now while I am happy we don't 
 get the "we sell our souls to the devil to get crappy licensed pop-punk & crap hip-hop" kind of 
 soundtrack that EA keeps shoving down our throats in the Burnout of myriad of mediocre sports games 
 they release, I wouldn't mind a FEW catchy tunes tossed in there. I know a lot of people have praised 
 the audio in this series due to the 'fun' of listening to a 'Disturbed' song one minute and then 
 a classical music song the next, but I wasn't impressed. I wasn't impressed with this area in PGR 
 3 either, so it's not just this game.
  
  I hope that Bizzare Creations really finds a way to shake this series up with the next game. And 
 if they can't, I hope they stop making these games. It's not like this is not a quality game, but 
 I got the feeling with PGR 4, that Bizzare was in 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it' mode here. 
 I know they restructured the career mode, but it's not any better and not much different. The addition 
 of motorcycles was nice, but has minimal impact on the game itself. The weather effects are great, 
 but I need more than that to get me to drop another $60 on a sequal. Bizzare Creations has created 
 a great racing game series that manages to perfectly blend the arcade and 'sim' styles of racing, 
 but the series is starting to feel stale. Hopefully the next game will change that feeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peza141
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  PGR 4 is a great game no doubt about it. It offers a good ammount of content and easy to use controls. 
 PGR 4 adds some new additions to the series that work well like the beat weather effects so far 
 in a game, and the addition of motorbikes. Using the motorbikes is quite fun but i haven't really 
 used them as i prefer the cars.
  
  I think PGR4s best feature is its single player mode as i hear online isn't very good. The career 
 mode is long and evloves around full rach seasons in which you go to each city and chose one of 
 the 4 events avaible there. You start off ranked last and your job is to get losts of kudos and 
 become the world no 1 rank. This will take about 3 seasons on normal but on hard the career mode 
 will take alot longer. PGR4 feature a good selection of tracks from major cities all other the 
 world and it also has many differnet types of events.
  
  The bikes are a fun addtion but don't handle very well. There is a great sense of speed from them 
 however bikes are amied at the kudos hunting players as you can do stunts like wheelies and stoppies 
 on them.
  
  The graphics in PGR4 are execellent and this shows in the car models and city backgrounds as well. 
 the sound of the cars engines is very relistic and they all sound different. The soundtrack is rubbish 
 though. the only thing that they should add in is damage for the cars because if you hit a wall 
 at 200mph all you get is a scratch.
  
  Overall PGR4 is tweaked and improved version of the one before it. the gameplays been refined and 
 with great visuals. PGR4 is a great package racer which is a must by for racing fans and 360 owners 
 alike.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg4xchamp
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 20, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Project Gothem Racing 4 is a very good game. Simple as that. I know that is a simple statement, 
 but there really isn't much you can say. From the ground up the game is very well polished for 
 a racing game. Offers a nice amount of content, controls and plays very well, adds some nice additions 
 such as motorbikes, weather, and a much improved single player. 
  
  In fact this is probably Project GOthem Racing 4s best feature. It's single player. The career 
 mode is fleshed out and just well done. You start off ranked way below the top. It is your job 
 to go out win races, win events, and earn points to higher. This is essentially a franchise mode. 
 Don't win a Major this year, just win it next year. Each race event offers different set of skills. 
 Such as just street racing, get as many checkpoints as you can while on the clock, don't hit the 
 cones, get a ton of Kudos, etc. It is an all around good experience. Something most racers struggle 
 with the single player career PGR 4 has nailed down. 
  
  The motorcycles are a nice fun addition, however they come up a bit overpowered. They control very 
 well, the sense of speed is all there, and it is fun doing some nice stunts. For the most part 
 the motorcycles are basically designed for the big flashy kudos building players. 
  
  PGR has always been a good mixture of Flash and Speed so it is no shocker that the game is also 
 very good looking. WHile Forza 2 maybe a deeper and more simulator like than PGR. PGR 4 definantly 
 looks way better. The visuals are just outstanding, the weather effects are top notch, and the 
 sound presentation is also pretty good for the cars. The soundtrack isn't too hot though. 
  
  The online is also alot of fun. Upto 8 players online. It is all very well done. WIth online 
 team racing, You can just fool around and mess with the motorbikes to make some cool picks. Which 
 like the replays can be saved and shown the entire PGR 4 online community (should the chooser choose 
 to watch it) . 
  
  PGR 4 builds upon the PGR formula. THe gameplay is more refined, the career is certainlty the best 
 single player is just very well done, the sense of speed is there as well as the great visuals. 
 PGR 4 is a complete package racer and a necessary addition for racing fans on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenwickhotmail
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The acclaimed series returns once again with the same barrel load of style, fast and furious racing 
 and a range of exotic, as well as more economical, vehicles with motorbikes, stunning weather effects 
 and more action than ever added to the mix, consequently making PGR4 a top draw racing game.
  
  The major addition of the latest instalment is motorbikes. They can be played along side regular 
 cars resulting in an even more exciting racing experience and offers a whole new gameplay element 
 to the series. Although they perhaps don't handle as realistically or frankly as good as the cars, 
 they are still very entertaining and allow just as much style and stunts which is what Project 
 Gotham is all about.
  
  Stylish antics while racing earns you kudos, accomplished by doing anything from drifts and driving 
 at hellish speeds, to doing wheelies, endos and even standing on the rear of a motorbike and waving 
 your legs around a bit. The kudos system has been improved from the previous games and allows you 
 to have even more fun while racing. There's also an incentive for driving like a mad man, too, 
 as cars, tracks and even modes are unlockable buy purchasing them in the PGR shop.
  
  However, on top of the already superb visuals, the true addition to the game is the weather effects; 
 driving around the Nrburgring in the billowing snow is a remarkable experience. The water effects 
 as you plough through a puddle are extremely impressive; even better the excitement as you aqua 
 plane through one, knowing you could lose complete control at any stage. Surprisingly, the weather 
 effects really do add a new layer to the game, making races more exciting, diverse and memorable.
 
  
  The weather would be as good as nothing if the driving model was poor, but, thankfully, it is spot 
 on. The mix of arcade and simulation driving results in one that is instantly playable and instantly 
 enjoyable. In addition, there is a wide variety of cars; even a pick up truck makes an appearance, 
 each with their own feel and stats. Cars such as the Lamborghini Murcielago, Aston Martin Vanquish 
 and even the Mini Cooper S are almost perfectly replicated and racing with the in car view on is 
 a fantastically authentic experience.
  
  Project Gotham 4 also packs plenty of value; there are both many single and multi player modes. 
 The meat of the single player is the career mode, where you aim to be the number one driver in 
 the world by competing in various races and challenges, such as eliminations, hot laps and gate 
 challenges. There are a few crap ones, like kudos vs. time, but can be forgiven as the variety 
 is impressive; PGR4 boats a very generous amount of cities from around the globe to race in, all 
 with there own spectacular visuals, weather and track features.
  
  Winning events in single player will warrant you with more kudos to spend and you will occasionally 
 gain access to invitations, which will put you in a unique car which are up for grabs. This means 
 there is plenty to play for as well as offering a lot of content.
  
  Other modes include the arcade and time trials, meaning you'll have loads to do within the game. 
 However, the majority of the replay value comes from the online which boasts a vast array of modes. 
 Team Races, Cat and Mouse and Bulldog all offer fantastic entertainment as you compete furiously 
 with several other racers from around the globe. Bulldog is one of the highlights, which involves 
 a 'Fox' who must seek out other players as they sprint away across an entire city until there is 
 only one left. It is a refreshing mode and just good plain fun.
  
  The fourth instalment also boasts PGR On Demand, which allows you to post pictures and videos which 
 you have captured and share with the online to be watched and rated. You also have the ability 
 to customize your character, by changing the colour of their outfit and helmet, and even your car. 
 Although it is not very deep, it is a nice feature.
  
  As impressive as the environments, vehicles and weather effects are, the same is also true with 
 the driving model; it is fast, entertaining and easy to pick up. The bikes may not be as impressive 
 as initially though and it may not make major leaps forward in the series, but all the minor additions 
 add up to a game which is both highly recommendable to racing fans and newcomers alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1579
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  project gotham racing 4 is a smash!!!!!!!!! there are so many cars to choose from!!!
  Gentlemen, prepare your calluses. Project Gotham 4 plays to the series' strengths and adds new 
 twists along the way.
  the good * Gorgeous environments * Fun driving model and spot-on control * Rain effects are the 
 best of the new weather effects * Buying items with kudos is a nice incentive for driving with 
 style.
  
  the bad * Motorcycles seem overpowered * No reason to use underpowered cars in most events.
  
 
  this game is fun to play with ur friends but sometimes u get bored of it, the graphics do amaze 
 you but there are sum down sides like motorcycles
  
  graphics- 10
  gameplay- 8
  sound- 7
  value- 8
  tilt-9
  overall- 8.5
  
  if you want a racing game then this is the 
 winner for me because the graphics are amazing, cars are funtastic, bikes are not so good but fun 
 to ride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Forza 2 is a good game, don't get me wrong. But when compared to the overall fun and addictive 
 aspects of Project Gotham Racing 4, its an experience that leaves anything Forza 2 as in the dust. 
 The long running arcade/simulation racing series that first appeared on the Sega Dreamcast console 
 a few years back as grown up a great deal. If I was forced to pick one specific aspect of PGR4 
 that is so much fun its stupid, it would have to be actual gameplay. I don't care what anyone says, 
 PGR4 offers a greater driving experience then anything Gran Turismo do. Its such a bash to drive 
 a ferrari or go speeding round a corner on a Suzuki bike. Its just downright fun and racing is 
 so so much more enjoyable because of this. 
  
  There are many aspects of PGR4 that could be picked out, for instance despite the fact that there 
 isn't a huge amount of locations within the game, the huge variation of styles found at different 
 tracks is superb. There are some amazing tracks that are a lot of fun to experience and the beautiful 
 graphics paints a fantastic picture as you go flying through London or Las Vegas, its easy to say 
 that its lazy development on the part of Bizarre Creations, but the actual detail and variation 
 of styles found at the many tracks just shows how much work as gone into designing every track 
 with time and care so that you get a racing experience no other game can match. 
  
  Graphically, the game is stunning. I don't mean to slam Forza 2 but when you compare the detail 
 in cars and the details in the environments you do wonder why Forza 2's Tracks were so lacking 
 in quality. PGR4 looks great in many departments, especially when you get into the car itself and 
 see everything from a different view. Its a stunning looking experience. There are the usual modes, 
 from Gotham Career to a great online experience which features tourneys and many other things. 
 The Gotham Career alone can last a good amount of gaming time, but you also have a lot of other 
 cool features such as PGR on demand which allows you to upload beautiful pictures onto the official 
 PGRNations website and also allows you to view both you own and other folks race replays and also 
 vote on them. It all works really well and is a nice addition for the gamer to experience. But 
 theres more, one small but traditional aspect of PGR4 was found in Geometric Wars: Waves which 
 is asusual a lot of fun to play, even tho I'm still not that great at it. Music is also well cared 
 for, there is some great music from the classical to the World Music from all corners of the World. 
 It will suit anyone and although there is some music you'll want to turn off in the sound options 
 simply because it'll get on your nerves, it works well with the game and although there isn't a 
 huge amount of adreline music to pump you up for a good race, it all suits the experience the game 
 offers. 
  
  Bikes, one of the big changes in this installment are great, most important they are a lot of fun 
 and compare them with cars you see that they have been painfully balance to the point of perfection, 
 BIkes have advantages over cars while cars have some advantages over bikes, for example Bikes tho 
 fast, will lose speed on the straights and cars will be faster and catch up. Cars can bully bikes 
 about, but bikes are better suited for some of the tight circuits the game offers. The true challenge 
 of Bikes is taking advantage of the tight sections so causing less problems when the troublesome 
 straight come about. Weather is also a great new addition, tho snow isn't so much fun, infact its 
 more of a problem then enjoyment. Rain is a blast to race in offering a new challenge, small or 
 much larger water patches on the track can cause you to slip and slide about and all sorts of other 
 problems, it can also slow your car/bike down a great deal on the straights. But most importantly 
 of all is that its fun and is one of the best expamples of rain racing I know. 
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall, PGR4 does so much right and very little wrong. Its not just a beautiful looking 
 game with a superb mix of around 150 cars and bikes, but also offers some of the most fun and realistic 
 racing gameplay around. Simply PGR4 should be a MUST for any gamer who calls himself a racing fan.
 
  
  PROS:
  - Amazing controls and overal racing feel.
  -Stunning game, from the environments to the cars/bikes.
  -A good amount of content that will 
 keeep you busy for a good amount of time.
  
  CONS:
  -Still no real true style damage.
  -Some of the invitations are very tough.
  -Snow and fog are more of a problem then fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  PGR4 is a really awsome racing game that takes everything about fun arcade style gameplay and combines 
 it with tons of tracks exotic cities and awsome rides.
  Gameplay: The racing mechanics of PGR4 are very fun but not as realistic as some racing games like 
 Forza 2. The cars are a blast overall and nothing feels to slow or underpowered. PGR4 is the right 
 mix of arcade style gameplay and realism that will attract hardcore and casual. One thing about 
 PGR4 that is improved over 3 is the drifting. It is a great feeling being able to perfectely drift 
 around a tight corner, Little things like that make this game very fun.
  
  The bikes in PGR4 are the lowblow to the ride department.. They are way to sensitive too the slightest 
 touch and just feel tacked on too the game. but with a plethora of cars under your control thats 
 not a problem.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of PGR4 are very very good. The cities are very realistic and the cars are 
 just beautifull.. such details like water droplets on your windsheild make the graphics some of 
 the best of any racing game.
  
  Sound: The car sounds are good but not great.. Some cars still seem to be like bumblebees even though 
 they hit 200MPH. But in the long run the small sound differences and with an excellent soundtrack 
 you will quickly forget about your car and focus on Mozart instead.
  
  Multiplayer/Replayability: The multiplayer aspect of PGR4 great. Though not as deep as Forza, PGR4 
 caters more to the casual player as forza does to the hardcore race fans.. PGR4's carreer mode 
 is a lot shorter than other racing games but in many ways its wayyy more fun because of so many 
 fun modes that other games dont offer. The arcade mode will be fun for a bit but the real fun is 
 in the short but sweet carreer and the multiplayer.
  
  Overall: PGR4 is a very fun racing game that will give you many hours of fun for casual and hardcore 
 racers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iory2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  First of all I want to say that I'll try to make this review as fair as possible and I hope no 
 one will miss understand me.
  
  A little background on the game first.. 
  
  I've been playing racing games for a long time now, and I have followed the PGR series since the 
 start on the Dreamcast where it was called MSR I only missed the first PGR on xbox, and it has 
 evolved quite a bite since that time across platfroms and generations It all started with London, 
 Tokyo and San Francisco and though it only took place in 3 locations it had the impressive total 
 of 262 tracks the biggest number I've seen in any game. 
  
  It also introduced something new to racing games that was the kudos system, you could no longer 
 race only, you had to do it well and in style though some people might not like it I think it added 
 quite some depth and variety to the game play this kudos would allow you to unlock some cars as 
 well as progress trought the game the next PGR series were improvements on this formula in almost 
 everyway.
  
  Game play and content
  
  Now PGR 4 doesn't look like just and improvement on graphics and the formula it really is quite 
 a few steps ahead PGR 3.
  
  The first thing anyone will notice ofcourse is the inclusion of bikes, it adds alot of depth and 
 variety to the game though there are some key bikes missing in the game like R1 and ZX10 and CBR 
 1000, wich i really miss (specially R1 wich is my own ride) , some motorcycles are also rpm limited 
 I guess to have some kind of balance between them and the cars from their class for an example 
 the R6 wich should go up to 18.000 rpm only reaches 13,500 rpm.
  
  The cars handle pretty much as you would expect from a PGR game wich is somewhere between arcade 
 and simulation you wont see anything near forza 2's fidelity but its no burnout either its somewhere 
 in between, I'm quite happy myself with the cars they have included I can find most of my personal 
 favourites there and i think most people will find theirs though its missing some very popular 
 ones like skyline gtr 34 or bikes like i mentioned above, you can still find maclaren F1, Ferrari 
 enzo, GSXR 1000, F4 senna etc.
  
  The tracks
  
  The game will take place across 10 different locations with a total of 106 tracks they all look 
 very different from eachother all very faithful to real life, theres a lot of variety to chose 
 from and it will take a long time to get tired of them, to add some depth to it theres also the 
 dynamic weather effects you can start a championship in a sunny day and it starts changing in real 
 time to cloudy then it starts raining it looks really nice and adds depth and realism to gameplay.
 
  
  The sound and graphics
  
  I'll start by the soundtrack I really liked the intro music the shadow from The Prodigy, its the 
 one you will listen in the menus all the time and it always sounds good the rest of the soundtrackis 
 very varied though i dont like all of it its purely a matter of taste if the reader is anything 
 like me wont be bothered by it at all and when one gets tired of it can simply use a custom soundtrack 
 like in any other xbox 360 game, there's also an option to remove some musics from the playlist 
 or you can change them in real time during game by using the D-pad.
  
  The cars sound nice and realistic so do the bikes but by no means the best I ever heard there are 
 some very wellcome sound options in this game that help enhace your surround experience not only 
 you have control over music volume you have also control on LFE (low frequency effect) volume among 
 others you can configure the dynamic range for home theater, HIFI or TV, Music Mode: stereo, Quad 
 or surround, and your speaker setup you can actually adjust the angle of your speakers in relation 
 to the listening position and the room size to small, medium, large or auditorium. 
  
  On the visual side of things the game is the best looking racing game I have played on this gen, 
 even though some games might surpass some particular aspects this one simply wins overall the cities 
 all look amazing with the exception of one that has got some majure texture loading problems, the 
 best way to see this game's graphics is without the latest update that removed dynamic shadows 
 (Bizzare says they are working on that problem so expect to see them in the next update) , so I 
 will talk about the graphics without that update as I play them now.
  
  If you played PGR3 are probably wondering how it compares so thats where I'll start, PGR4 is quite 
 a noticeble update like its predecessor it recreates faithfuly the real life cities in the game 
 but this one does so with alot more detail the textures used are a lot better then in pgr3, it 
 all looks more organic and life like including the car's, the only thing that PGR4 seems to be 
 missing is HDR lighting buy most probably wont even notice the lighting is so well done that it 
 doesn't matter the car shadows look really nice and are dynamic in contrast with the track shadows 
 wich aren't don't look as good but still do their job well almost every single building looks fantastic 
 the draw distances are very impressive and though you only are racing in one track it seems to 
 be rendering the entire city in 3D unlike most games, almost every reflective surface reflects 
 every object and building the car reflections are also some of the most impressive on this generation 
 the car/bike models are very well done with high enough polygon countsand beautiful textures, the 
 weather effects look amazing as it starts raining you'll see the road reflection the buildings 
 and cars the heavy rain on the cars all that rendered at a 1280x720p resolution with 2xAA significantly 
 higher than PGR3 at 1024x600p 2xAA, and the same as Forza 2.
  
  So what does that mean the game is perfect? Nowhere near perfect like all games it has its flaws 
 and sacrifices are made theres some kind of a rushed feeling on the game the developers didn't 
 give it as much "love" as they could have its only been a little more than and year and a half 
 between pgr3 and 4, and that reflects on some parts that feel rushed shangai is the only city that 
 looks bad on this game thanks to a huge ammount of texture problems, dont get me wrong textures 
 on shangai would look nice but they never seem to load on time so instead of the traditional pop 
 up you wont have any pop up unless u stop the car and wait for it, in my opinion if they were gonna 
 make shangai like this they could have used the time to polish other tracks or put some more bikes/cars 
 in the game.
  
  With all this said PGR 4 is one of the best racing games available and its definetly the best looking 
 one.
  
  Game play 9/10
  Sound 9/10
  Graphics 9/10
  Replayability 9/10
  
  Overall 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adakin01
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best racing 
  Games i have ever played because it contains 
  All the best cars like :
  ferrari's
  Aston martin's
  porsche's
  lexus's
  saleen's
  
 bmw's
  merc's
  and many more.
  
  WARNING: very fast cars ages 3+ and not sometimes impossiblly hard challenges.
  
  P. S: this 
 game aso contains motorbikes and you can do many hot stunts with them. SKidding drifting cone sprints 
 hot lap's and time trials are all included in the game. but the main aim of the game is to get 
 the most KuDOS to buy new cars bikes tracks and multiplayer games. so this is the best racing game 
 ever and i hope everyone else enjoys it too. everyone who has read this and likes racing games 
 you have to buy this because it is the best racing game you will ever play in your life up to now 
 that is LOL........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Well, its fantastic. The graphics are beautiful - especialy the weather effects & theres loads 
 to do. The icing on this cake though is the sublime handling. Going round corners sideways has 
 never been so much fun. Yet it still has its foot slightly in the real world. More powerful cars 
 must be eased into accelerating to stop wheelspins, braking should be used smartly & the racing 
 line should be followed for best chance of success. This gives it lots of depth that would normaly 
 be missing from the more arcadey style racing games.
  
  However it is still in the shadow of PGR2 IMO. Theres a lack of challenges & content compared to 
 this high point of the series. Also the season mode isnt great & I much prefer the structure of 
 PGR2. But these are small problems. 
  
  What stops it getting a 9/10 is the bikes. Which are terrible & a pointless addition. If you never 
 had to use them, then I wouldnt have really been bothered. Unfortunately the game forces you to 
 use them to get all medals in Arcade mode. They are just not fun to use at all & bring the whole 
 package down. Regardless of this though I still highly recommend it to any racing fan. Brilliant 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the bikes. They just don't work. Ugly handling so at odds with the smooth and 
 pleasureable-ness usually associated PGR. They seemed like a late addition that wasn't fully play 
 tested.
  
  Gone are the joys of the locales too. Picking on London in particular, the track choices and designs 
 are very poor and get boring quite quickly. I miss the glory days of PGR 1and 2's amazing tracks. 
 Something for everyone they had. Now they are narrow and naff. 
  
  I'm no graphics whore but I used to LOVE driving around cities like San Francisco and Paris soaking 
 in the views at high speed. Now they look draba nd dull, generic t othe point of blandness. Shiny 
 does not equal eye pleasing.
  
  The biggest loss is the audio. I know, sounds weird! Radio stations anyone? They were fantastic... driving 
 around some foreign city with the local DJ's introducing a varied and seriously juicy track listing. 
 It was such a different approach.... and now all we have is a very very un-inspiring and short tracklisting. 
 And custom soundtracks. It just misses that little touch.
  
  Online is broken. It just doesn't work properly and takes an age t oget going. Add to this the 
 irritatingly dull career.....
  
  .... and I went back to PGR3 and 2. Even dusted off 1 to make sure I wasnt going mad.
  
  Avoid. 
 This is a glossed up wet fart of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on saturday and man it is amazing!. Im a massive fan of racing games, and this 
 game is just stunning. 
  
  I think it beats PGR3 hands down in every respect, at first when I bought this I thought it would 
 just be the same as PGR3 but with a weather system, but how wrong I was.
  
  First off the visuals are amazing, the cars look amazing and realistic and I can't get enough of 
 the cockpit view thats one of the things I love about the PGR series. 
  
  The game has a weather system that is absent in alot if not all of next gen racers and it makes 
 the game that much more amazing especially visually, you can see every detail even the raindrops 
 running down the car and smashing into the windscreen as the wipers wipes it away. The weather 
 can also chage during the race it cud be dry one minute and then it would start raining and it 
 is so much fun to slip and slide around in the snow!!. Youre probably thinkin oooh wow a weather 
 system big deal! but believe me just play the game and youll see it is so amazing.
  
  The gameplay, well yeah il say this it isnt completely realistic and itsnt as realistic as forza 
 motorsport 2, but the driving in this game is very very fun and nice n simple to handle, you get 
 a great sense of speed and pull off great drifts around the corners, the handling of the cars is 
 so smooth and accurate it makes you feel like a great driver, I find myslef enjoying this alot 
 more than forza, but dont get me wrong fora is a great game.
  
  Well I think this is an amazing game andis the best racing game on the market for your money, but 
 its up to you to buy it but all i know is im having a blast playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWIAB
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 6:35 am PT
Review:  I have played nearly every single major racing game to date: FM2, PGR4 GTR2, GT4, Toca 3, Dirt, 
 NFS
  
  PGR4 delivers mixture of intesive closed track style racing, with a impressive trick-combo system. 
 5 seconds ahead of your opponents? pull a handbrake slide on the next corner rather than trying 
 to hit the perfect apex.
  
  the graphics are all neon lights and impressive backgrounds, couple this with some amazing car 
 models with full dashboard view, a 50fps/60fps frame rate and you have an amazing looking game
 
  
  Music and Sound wise, is less than great, the music is a mixture of underground hip hop, grunge 
 rock and pop rock, it less than satisfies, in fact its bloody dissapointing. however the car sounds 
 are ecstatic, screaming tires and screeching V10s are just a few sound affects you'll enjoy.
  
  the gameplay is classic PGR, so don't expect a massive change, and the list of cars is brilliant 
 from the Delorean to SSC Ultimate Aero (fastest production car available!)
  
  this game is a must buy, and with cheap DLC coming soon, there's no thinking needed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  This simulation is just a lean back & chill to beat, and enjoy the view high-end racing game.
 
  
  Though few in numbers, all the Hip Hop songs in the game was cool. I hope on the next PGR, they 
 could add more songs. They should make it at least 300 Hip Hop songs.
  
  I changed the music settings when I played this. I only turned on the Hip Hop songs and turned 
 off the rest. I hope they could give free downloadable songs at Xbox Live. I sure would like to 
 add some more Hip Hop songs on the play list.
  
  Driving this game in the camera view which you can see your hands, the stirring wheel and the dashboard 
 is the most relaxing way to drive in this game. Something in the sound of the music changes when 
 you switch to this camera view. The sound is relaxing. It was also funny at times when I don't 
 know that the gear was already in neutral. It's hard at first because at this camera view you won't 
 be able to see which gear you are in already but after sometime you'll get used to it.
  
  When it rains, you'll feel even more relaxed. When at the camera view I specified above, you'll 
 see the rain drops at the windshield being swiped by the wiper. The weather system is really cool 
 - adds more relaxation.
  
  The environment is another thing when added to the Hip Hop music and the rainfall adds more relaxation. 
 The environment is very lifelike. The view of nature and buildings is magnificent.
  
  The view, the weather, the Hip Hop music, the sound of the Lamborghini, what more can you ask for? 
 Lean back, relax, chill and go for a tour.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsunami_pt
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Forget the weather effects and tell me: is it just me, or the graphics are worst then in PGR3?
 
  
  Well, I've played all PGR so far, and let me just present you a short review, on topics:
  
 
  - PGR 2 is still the best. It has the coolest carrer system, imo. I know that PGR 4 arcade is 
 a bit similar, but I dont feel compeled to play it.
  - PGR 3 Graphics seem, imo, better then in PG4, specially the "inside the car view".
  - Motorbikes 
 are cool, but are a bit overpowered, and less realistic then the cars. I think that bikes and cars 
 should be separated
  - I like the weather effects system. Cool, and adds chaos and a random effect to a race.
  - I'm 
 glad they made return the customization of the race driver.
  - I miss the cone chalenge the way it was PGR 2 and 3. So far, i've only add races to pass the 
 cone gates.
  
  
  So, in my opinion, the perfect PGR game would be:
  
  - PGR 2 carrer system and cars.
  - PGR 3 graphics.
  - PGR 4 Weather effects and bikes.
  - 
 Bike and Car races separated.
  - A new Geometry Wars!!!
  - I also think that it would be cool if the game used the console clock and calendar to determine 
 the daylight and weather conditions in some races.
  - More cars. And jeeps, like the Porche Cayene in PGR 2 (imagine a Jeep race with snow?)
  - Make 
 us buy single cars, and not "packs" of cars.
  
  
  Well, this is my short review. I'm having fun with PGR 4, it's true. But not as much as I did a 
 few years ago with the Masterpiece PGR 2.
  
  My 2 cents... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InjuredNoodle
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 1, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  PGR4 is the best looking PGR game to date. That's about it. There is nothing else positive to say 
 about this game. The career mode seems like it never ends. There's only 2 difficulty settings, 
 normal and difficult. Even on normal some races seem really hard to finish.
  
  They also took out kudos challenges where you perform drifts or 366s between cones. Instead they 
 replaced it with the worst feature yet, the Cone sprints. This is the worst event ever invented 
 in PGR to date. There's also a limit on how many kudos you can earn during a race, absurd. Some 
 challenges you have to earn a certain amount of stars, but once you reach the 5 star limit, you 
 have to stop your combo so the star meter can start again.
  
  PGR4 has a horrible online feature. Once you do manage to find a game, you can't even tell how 
 far along the match is. So once you join you have no idea if the people have just started to race 
 or if they are on the last lap. 
  
  Small text. Only play this game if you have a large HD TV because if you don't you will need a 
 magnifying glass to read the text on screen. Some screens even have white words on a white background!
 
  
  Bikes. In my opinion bikes should have been left out. They are difficult to handle and you can 
 wreck real easy if you hit another car.
  
  Damage modeling. If I smash my car into a barrier at 180 mph I want to SEE IT! In PGR4 your car 
 will still look almost brand new.
  
  The sound and handling of the cars is improved. The weather can add variety to some races, but 
 usually its just annoying and you'll lose most control of your vehicle when you hit a puddle or 
 snow patch.
  
  I know I'm missing some other stuff but these are the main complaints I have with this game. Bizarre 
 Studios had a long time to make this game unlike the rushed PGR3 and came up with the worst iteration 
 of the series yet. Its sad to see such a great series come to this, especially since PGR2 was one 
 of my most played XBOX LIve games in the past few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baylon452
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Two years after Project Gothams first outing on the xbox360, Bizarre are back with Project Gotham 
 Racing 4. PGR, is back bigger and better, and this time with bikes!
  
  Yes bikes are one of the many new additions to the classic PGR formula. The other big addition 
 is a fully integrated weather system. 
  You will now be racing round new and familiar tracks in all sorts of weather conditions ranging 
 from dense fog, where you cant see the next corner ahead of you, to blizzard conditions where snow 
 drifts and ice make that difficult hair pin corner that much more difficult.
  
  Other new additions include a separate arcade and career mode to the single player portion of the 
 game. 
  The arcade mode has so many different chapters with each chapter consisting of so many different 
 races and challenges requiring you to succeed and gain a medal to advance to the next chapter. 
 
  Each challenge can be attempted in either a bike or car, and each one has its own medal. All the 
 challenges are the same sort of thing you'd expect from previous PGR games. 
  Those who are new to PGR though will find regular street races, one on one races, elimination races 
 and more unique challenges such as knocking over a certain amount of cones
  or racing round the track as stylish as you can racking up points for your style.
  
  
  The 
 career mode is slightly different, where you will find nearly all the same events as the arcade 
 mode except they are put into a season
  and you get to play them as you advance through the season. A great thing about the new weather 
 system is that when your racing in December you will know your racing in December because of all 
 the snow on the track.
  The aim of the career mode is to advance up the leader board until you are number one in the world. 
 Both the career mode and arcade mode are are great to progress through, with much re-playability 
 involved with different
  difficulty levels and the different experience of racing a track in a car and then going to do 
 it in a bike. As well as the single player game there is also a worthy online multi-player where 
 you can race with your friends
  on your own or as a team with many of the race types from the single player portion of the game. 
 There is also daily world-wide tournaments which require you to qualify first and then be entered 
 into the elimination stages. 
  Of course there is no real prize for winning such a tournament apart from self satisfaction and 
 your name put on the PGR website but they are fun to enter nevertheless.
  
  
  The bikes really do offer a different experience to driving in PGR 4. Bizarre have done a great 
 job in balancing out the cars and bikes racing together, however I found the game slightly easier 
 using bikes.
  There is a huge range of cars and bikes to choose, from old formula one cars to brand new super 
 cars, and each one handles and controls differently. Each also looks stunning. The graphics in 
 PGR4 are a slight upgrade from PGR3 but are still very impressive. 
  The environments are beautifully designed filled with buildings and spectators and are a marvel 
 to look at, especially the Las Vegas track at night. The car and bike models are also pretty good 
 and it is awesome to see them chance with the weather, such as seeing each individual drop of rain 
 on the hood of your car.
  
  
  Add all of this together and you have one of the best racing games of the year with enough content 
 and options available to you to satisfy you for a long time to come. Fans of older PGR games shouldn't 
 have to consider getting this game, they just should. 
  New comers looking for a quality racing game should definetly check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vega666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  PGR4 is my first dive into the series, having previously been a NFS freak, but after about 3 minutes 
 with PGR4 that all changed. Snappy, lightning fast, and above all, precise controls makes PGR4 
 the best driving experience for a video game so far. The disclaimer states that the game does not 
 depict driving realistically, but being a semi experienced racer myself, I must say this is the 
 closest I've come to a real driving experience in a video game. It seems all the "simulation" racer 
 developers are under the impression that the more sluggish, slow and unresponsive the controls, 
 the closer the game is to the real thing. THIS IS NOT TRUE! A sports/race car is supposed to have 
 extremely quick responses (at least European and Japanese, if not American) , and PGR4 emulates 
 this beautifully.
  
  That being said, PGR4 is NOT a simulator, although a lot more realistic than any racer currently 
 out there, the actual physics is indeed geared more towards stylish driving. (Going faster around 
 corners by hand-braking around it is not generally associated with realism. ;)
  
  Anyway, all in all, PGR4 is an absolutely beautiful experience if you are into racing sweet rides 
 in their natural state. None of the silly customizing which has nothing to do with driving whatsoever, 
 and which is completely redundant, as you never see the car while racing anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of PGR since the early days on the Dreamcast and this might be the _least_ essential 
 version of the game released. 
  
  Basically we get the tracks of PGR3 with brand new dynamic weather and lighting effects and those 
 additions really do look NICE. We also get 2 new track locations that look great (in contrast, 
 PGR2 had new location tracks one could download from live but that option never happened in PGR 
 3 or 4) . We get to drive motorcycles now, but the general consensus is that the motorcycles dont 
 really add much to the gameplay and might even be annoying since it doesnt feel like the game was 
 actually designed with motrocycles in mind. 
  
  Frankly, given the above, the game was not worth 60bucks retail. At the current used price of around 
 30-40bucks, it might be a worthy purchase if you like the project gotham series. The game developer 
 recently said it is "done" with Project Gotham Racing. This game sort of feels like they needed 
 to make one more game because Microsoft told them they had to and this is what we got. It _is_ 
 a solid racing game -- just dont expect much different from PGR3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl2tan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying that this is easily the best PGR yet. The detail in this game is incredible. 
 I play this game with all the music off so I cant review the soundtrack. I love how you dont upgrade 
 the cars at all. All of the colour choices are from the factory. The weather effects are the best 
 yet in any driving game. Your car even uses its windshield wipers. There are even wet spots on 
 the road that cause you to hydroplane. on top of all this, Bizzare creations somehow found the 
 time to tastefully incorporate bikes into this game. The sound effects from the cars engines are 
 also spot on. I used to love the NFS series in the late 90's and early 2000's because you couldnt 
 "supe up" the cars. But ever since "Underground" all NFS games have fallen flat.
  This is the racing game you have been waiting for if you love driving games, and even more so if 
 you have an emotional connection to driving past and present cars and bikes in beautiful locations 
 and beautiful weather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  The latest entry in the series, Project Gotham Racing 4, is a truly curious endeavor considering 
 the racer's previous installments. Developer Bizarre Creations manages to include all the concepts 
 that made the last entry great, but new community enhancing features aside, the latest versions 
 list of upgrades seems to center primarily around motorcycles and weather effects. Ultimately, 
 it may be fun to fishtail endlessly in the snow, but it just seems ridiculous compared to the series 
 customary focus on high speed racing in super expensive exotic cars. 
  It's the previous analysis that makes Project Gotham racing 4's emphasis on weather effects and 
 motorcycles a bit discouraging. The seemingly torrential downpour makes me miss the sunny days 
 of racing where a sequel would place greater emphasis on a new physics model or deep car customization, 
 neither of which seemed to make the PGR4 feature cut. Even if you can pick your vehicles coat of 
 paint, we were looking for more here after playing competing arcade titles like Need for Speed 
 or Test Drive. Driving in the snow or rain on your Ducati isn't impossible mind you (especially 
 with PGR4's tight controls) , I'm just not sure it adds up to a sequel worth of fun.
  It's unfair to strike the game down entirely since Project Gotham Racing 4 manages to do a lot 
 of things really well over its previous incarnations. Besides an expanded vehicle list (which focuses 
 heavily on the motorcycles) and tighter handling, players will find a focused career mode which 
 unfolds using a monthly calendar that tracks upcoming invitational, championships and major events 
 through the game's nine cities (with races in Shanghai, St. Petersburg, Quebec City, and Macau 
 making their series debuts) . Players unlock different track variations, vehicles, and bonuses (like 
 gamertag pics) through packs, which are for sale at the PGR shop. 
  
  Kudos - a point based system designed to rewards players for tight turns, drifts, and tricks like 
 powerslides - are now the in-game currency in PGR4. Achieving as many Kudos as possible is a great 
 way to get players focused on clean and efficient driving maneuvers throughout the games plethora 
 of modes; a major portion of which return from PGR3. 
  Complaints aside, motorcycles have been implemented quite well in PGR4, and are the perfect vehicles 
 for Kudos starved racers. Bikes rack up some serious points, sporting tight controls and easy to 
 execute tricks that are as simple as pressing the B button. 
  
  The new manufactures like Ducati, Suzuki, and Toyota join a proverbial who's who of high priced 
 automotive performance and design (mainly Ferrari, Bentley, and Jaguar to name a few) . All the 
 vehicles in PGR4 look and sound like their real life counterparts, but just remember to ease up 
 on turns, since bikes don't bounce off the dividers as well as cars (generally speaking any hard 
 bump will make you go splat onto the concrete) . 
  
  A lot can be said regarding PGR4's visual package; the multiple car cameras, environments, and 
 slick track surfaces look admittedly gorgeous. Effects like rain actually bead across your car's 
 fresh-out-of-the-wash wax job helping PGR4 to easily trump any visual efforts from its sim sibling 
 Forza 2. PGR4 also sports a slick new UI upgrade throughout that visually calls to mind an opening 
 sequence to some non-existent Guy Ritchie film.
  It is a good racing game and worth your money
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiglyBiglyFK
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing is the best racing simulation ever made. It's really hard to explain the 
 tension you have while you're playing the game. The controls, The visuals, The sound and the gameplay 
 are all strong and flawless. Together with good arcade and Simulation mode and a great, fast and 
 fun multiplayer, This game is something you can't get out of your mind till PGR5.
  There are lots of cars and bikes in the game which you can race in more than 10 cities across the 
 world, each one containing a handful of tracks. Each car and bike handle differently, but they 
 all handle realistically and fun. 
  You can change the camera view during races and even go inside the vehicles. When you are inside 
 the car that's when PGR teaches you how a racing game should be. The car interiors look good and 
 the awesome sound of engines and tire screeching really put you inside of that car. From there, 
 the great controls give you all the fun you can expect when taking turns and trading paints with 
 enemies.
  The cool thing about this game is that it's not just a point A to B racing game like lots of racing 
 titles. With the Kudo system, the game encourages you to drive with style. Kudos are points given 
 to you whenever you get a good drift, Pass over a car for the first time, having clean sections, 
 Draft a car, burnout and take off, or in motorcycles case do wheelies and endos and stuff. the 
 better you do the trick the more kudos you get. You can also chain these tricks together to build 
 massive combos and if you do it all right you can chain tricks for the whole race, making the most 
 points in a level. This not only gives each level lots of replayability, it makes the gameplay 
 lots of fun. After you've gained those kudos you can spend them in PGR store for cars and some 
 other things. You can do little customizations for your car but it's not that much but who cares? 
 I won't.
  Another nice thing is that motorcycles and cars get to race together. While cars are normally faster 
 and safer (because you may fall if you crash hard on a bike) , bikes are better for gaining kudos 
 and better for taking hard turns. In other words, Cars have more acceleration and top speed, but 
 bikes have more average speed than a car at the end. 
  while tracks look good and are fun to drive in, PGR brings weather effects to take your driving 
 experience even further. every track in the game looks different in days, nights or in rain, snow 
 or sun. The track gets wet when it rains, making you vehicle less stable. The snow blocks your 
 view and make handling even harder. Every weather effect looks good and is lots of fun to get used 
 to and play. When you are in your car, raindrops hit your windshield and wet your car. It all looks 
 so good and real. 
  Gotham Career is a fun mode where you start as a rookie driver and must build your way up to the 
 top by winning races, earning kudos, buying cars and winning more races. You start on a calender. 
 Each days has its own events: Races, tournaments and invitational events, which are races which 
 you are given a special vehicle and must do an objective to get a reward and you can choose to 
 play them or not. There are lots of race modes and objective in the game so the action remains 
 fresh till the very end. Every day you enter the race and compete. It doesn't matter if you lose 
 because it's not the kind of game where you always have to win. So what happens if you lose? you 
 get to try again next season. Arcade mode is lots of fun too when you finished the gotham career. 
 Online mode is Awesome, too.
  Bizarre creations did a great job on both the soundtrack and sound effects of the game. Engine 
 and tires and crashes and everything else sound great and real. There's not much damage modeling 
 in the game but the crashes sound just right. 
  To sum it all up, PGR4 is a complete experience and it's highly addictive. Nothing in this game 
 will frustrate you a bit. If you are a racing fan, Be sure to buy this game and be sure that you'll 
 love it. If you're not, there's a lot of chance PGR4 makes one out of you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobison
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 was a huge dissapointment after PGR2 in my opinion. There's not much to say about PGR4 as 
 I was expecting it to be better than PGR3. The best part about this game is the weather effects. 
 The car selection and track selection is better, but other than that it is the same as PGR3. My 
 biggest problem with this game is the online. I have trouble finding games online, when I put the 
 search on any it still only comes up with a couple of games. I heard that the sales of this game 
 were terrible, so that could be the reason. Anyways, I you have PGR3 already, I would recommend 
 renting it first. If you don't have PGR3, then PGR4 is worth the money. If you haven't played any 
 PGR game then play PGR2 as it is the best in the series, and if you don't like arcade racers then 
 stay away from PGR4 and buy Forza  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_a
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Hi. I have nothing against this game. It has many cars, and super realistic graphics. I`ll start 
 with some negatives. The drift is extremely unrealistic, and the cars` handling is fart too balanced. 
 I would have liked my cars to drift and fishtail a little. There are only several colors for your 
 cars, and there`s completely no modification. No nitrous oxide either. There is no damage models. 
 The worst that could happen is your back window shattering into pieces. Music isn`t my favorite 
 thing either. Too much classic music, and jazz.. Well, ok, I think I`ll now start with the positives. 
 
  You can gon very fast. I`ve got my speed up to 265 Miles Per Hour. There are lots of racing events. 
 I love the weather options. Really hard Nurburgring in the freezing snow. Many new cities with 
 multiple tracks. Many achievements, and best of all, it has some of my favorite cars.
  You should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForzaIV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 4 is the sucessor to PGR3. Bizarre, back in 2004 and 2005, was forced to 
 rush development of PGR3, which is why there were no weather effects, only 5 cities, a small car 
 range (compared to PGR2) and a dull interface. But after releasing PGR3, Bizarre knew that it wasn't 
 the end of it, and started working on PGR4. And boy, those 2 long years of development; of fixing 
 up the stuff that we didn't like about PGR3 and brightening up things has certainly paid off.
 
  
  The first thing you will notice about PGR4 when you first start up the game is the stunningly gorgeous 
 graphics. Bizarre has made the most of the Xbox 360's ATi graphics chip to tweak and polish the 
 exterior, interior and environment of the cars and the tracks of PGR4. Seriously, in my opinion, 
 the graphics look a whole lot better than those in Gran Turismo 5 on the Playstaion 3.
  
  Gameplay is also great as well. Elites like myself on PGR3 won't really find PGR4 any harder than 
 PGR3 when the difficulty is set to "Hardcore" in Career mode or "Platinum" in Arcade, but despite 
 that little niggle, it hasn't stopped the gameplay from being fun. It's more easier to slide your 
 car than it was in PGR4, and the damage models have also improved as well.
  The driving, overall is more realistic than PGR3, but dosen't lose it's arcade feeling, which to 
 me is a good thing.
  
  The Kudos system is back, but this time with a twist. Instead of racking up combos in slides and 
 stunts, you will rack up stars as you slide and jump your way around the track. The longer you 
 slide or stay in the air or do that wheelie, the more stars you will get, and the maximum stars 
 you can get is 5. Although it dosen't double up your kudos like the combos used to, it is nice, 
 simplistic and you will also get a nice bonus for having 2 or more stars.
  
  There are around 120 vehicles in PGR4, but for the first time in PGR4, you will get to race motorcycles. 
 Motorcycles are overall the same as cars to me, only that they launch off the start line quicker 
 than cars and have better turn in and you can perform wheelies and endos on bikes, but on straights, 
 bikes lose out to cars on top speed. However, despite these advantages, I'd perfer cars over bikes, 
 as they are easier to control and if you are an elite, you'll see that cars can easily catch up 
 onto bikes on the track. Also, if you run into a wall while on a bike, you'll fall off your bike. 
 To many, it is a little annoying, as you lose some valueble time, but it is realistic.
  
  Another change to PGR4 is weather effects. PGR1 and 2 had weather effects of rain or sunshine, 
 however in PGR3 the only weather effect you had was overcast. In PGR4, you get almost every kind 
 of weather effect you can think of. Sun, Rain, Storms, Snow, Fog, you get every sort of weather 
 effect you can think of in PGR4 (except for hail and tornados and hurricanes but wouldn't it be 
 cool if PGR4 had these weather effects?!)
  
  There are 10 cities in PGR4, including the famous Nrburgring. All cities are detailed from the 
 little bits to the buildings, and the spectators are back. The effect the weather has on each city 
 is stunning, as you can see the road get slippery in the rain and puddles appear on the road. 
 
  
  Career mode has changed as well, and the "List of Pain" from PGR3 is gone, replaced with a nice 
 red and white interface with a list of calender events. Your aim in career mode is to rack your 
 way from 72nd on the ranking board to 1st place, which will take around 2 game years. Types of 
 races include Breakthroughs, Cone Sprints, Superstars (where you have to try to rack up as many 
 kudo stars as possible) and of course, the old school Street races. First Place in tournaments 
 no longer depends on placings; it depends on how many kudos you have, so it is possible to win 
 a tournament even though you finish 2nd or 3rd in all your races. Also, you have invitationals, 
 in which car companies invite you to perform a one on one race or a kudo challenge. Win that invitational 
 and you will get to keep the car or maybe get a qualification for a major tournament.
  
  Overall, PGR4 is a huge improvement over PGR3. Those looking for casual racing or hardcore car 
 racing or easy achievement points (it's very easy to earn points in PGR4) must buy this game. You 
 will spend alot of time on this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peasly
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing PGR 3 on the XBox so i was really excited about the
  latest; PGR 4..!
  
  I especially liked the fact that you can use bikes, brilliant..
  I liked 
 this soooo much i did most of the races on a bike.. i found it easier to
  control them than the cars, but that's just me and not a reflection of the game
  play itself..
 
  
  The graphics are grteat however on some of the races i did have a bit of trouble
  seeing where i was going..
  
  I loved messing about with the photo option.. id try to take 
 one just when id
  had a spectacular crash and the motorbike rider was still somewhere in the air..!
  
  Its an 
 exciting game that challenges all your driving skills, just the ticket for
  driving/racing fans..
  
  The only down side is that i managed to complete the game in just 
 under two
  days..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has great core gameplay. Albeit it some of the cars and behavior is off and not true 
 it is still a fun to play game. The problem arises when you enter the online. If you want to play 
 ranked - which will earn you kudos - good luck. If you're in America, you better plan your online 
 playtime according to other parts of the world because you won't find many Americans online. After 
 around 11 pm EST you will not find any ranked games at all.
  
  Even if you can play online, the other drivers are all very unskilled and wreckless. They will 
 use you to slow down and then win. Really, this game has more untalented idiots playing it than 
 most of the others I've seen. And if you want to try a Tournament? Nope, all the players there 
 have no life and set unrealisticly high goal times so unless you're going to play the game 20 hours 
 a day, you'll be hard pressed to enter any global tournaments. 
  
  If you want it for single player, you're set then. If you want it to play online, good luck with 
 that. You'll find nothing but frustration if you try online. I would suggest a rental and not a 
 buy, you can beat the single player and unlock all the cars and extras in no time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuakeOne
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm just going to own up right now. I love the PGR series. I loved it before it was PGR, back on 
 the Dreamcast when it was Metropolis Street Racer. I played PGR 2 to death on the original xbox 
 and I remember playing it thinking how can games get much better, how can they get more realistic 
 than this???
  
  Well PGR4 is truely the pinnacle of how far this series can go graphically and gameplay wise. Playing 
 it you really cannot see how a game can look more realistic or handle anymore beautifully than 
 this. The feeling of speed, weather conditions and hard cornering has never been well recreated 
 than this.
  
  This game is massive with an Arcade mode that will hold you for days before you even move onto 
 the main bulk of the game in the Gotham Career mode. But the single player game takes back seat 
 to the online mode which is where this game will be being played for YEARS!!! Play ranked or unranked 
 matches, play in tournaments or single races or team races it really is all here and they've even 
 added the Cat and Mouse game which rocks. I missed out on PGR3 but PGR4 feels like a true next 
 gen racer. The streets around you blur as you whizz through them, your car gathers damage if you 
 rub against other vehicles, rain spalshes on your windscreen, thunder flashes in the background 
 it's just gorgeous looking.
  
  If I could have one gripe with it, it's the soundtrack. There is something here for everyone and 
 the prodigy theme song is great but most of the songs on the game annoy the crap out of me while 
 driving.... that is a tiny niggle though as you can turn the music off or play your own music via 
 the xbox dashboard.
  
  PGR is a passionate game to play, the people that made it love racing and you can feel this. This 
 game is a joy to play for hours or minutes at a time and is well worth your cash especially if 
 you are on live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  PGR 4 is a fun racing game but nothing outstanding. It has improved over PGR 3 specially in graphics 
 department ,thats all only.
  
  PGR 4 graphics / visuals are really nice .The game has a feel good touch. Weather change environments 
 in the game rocks be it snow, rain or wind.
  
  AI is excellent but in gold or platinum races they can be really annoying and hard.
  
  Music 
 is very poor in PGR 4. Soundquality is good but the additional soundtracks in the game are very 
 cheap and boring.
  
  The games controls can be difficult to master with a xbox 360 controller. You ought to use a Xbox 
 360 steering wheel to make best of your racing in PGR 4.
  
  You get to earn kudos as you progress in the game and unlock cars , bikes in career mode.
  
 
  You get arcade mode with different kind of racing challenges like speed events , racing events 
 and style events .You get variety of tracks to choose from.
  
  Its multiplayer is very bland , you have to wait in the lobby for a long time till you join it 
 or if either any of the player luckily invites you .
  
  The vechiles speeds are very poor and if you drift with higher drift car your car turns full u 
 turn .Its a simulation game which can be hard to master.
  
  Its best you rent the game first or download its demo to try it out. If you are a hardcore PGR fan 
 then straight go ahead for it , but if you are a Need For Speed / Burnout fan stay away from it 
 and look elsewhere .
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CalibusTheCrab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  When i first played PGR 3, I thought it was too boring, but then I played it later and then I bgean 
 to love it, Now PGR 4 is here and this time bikes are in the game, Who could resist?!
  PGR 4 is an amzing sequeal to PGR3, Almost everything has been improved! The new bikes are amazing 
 to use and you can race bike V car if you want. The weather system has made a big improvement and 
 now there are twice as many cities to roll through. The music is good and graphics are great in 
 single player, The only problem is that there doesnt seem to be as many cars as PGR 3 but the bikes 
 will block this from your mind as they have completely different personalities. The new carear 
 mode has been completely re-planned into a timetable of races and championships that you can chose 
 to play or skip as you make your way to top of the league. Overall PGR 4 is an amazing sequeal 
 with bikes that will keep you playing till the next PGR comes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GSsw009b7359
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing PGR since it was known as MSR on the Dreamcast, still have that game in my collection 
 as well. Its clear the series has seen its ups and downs, what series hasn't. What the game has 
 always had though is a perfect balance of fun, speed and pure racing, racing which encourages style 
 as opposed to the rather bland stay on the racing line, hit the apex, driving by numbers approach 
 of something like Forza 2.
  
  In this installment of the series some off the old complaints creep in, career mode perhaps fealt 
 fun at first but has a kind of unfinished feel to it in retrospect and the Kudos aspect although 
 still there doesn't feel as harsh as it used to be which is either a negative or positive thing 
 depending on whether or not the Kudos system was your bag. Personally I liked the harsh Kudos system, 
 nothing worse than getting rear ended when going into a hairpin by someone that uses your car as 
 a way to slow down going into corners.
  
  Cest la vie though, what the game does have is seat of the pants racing in fast luxorious cars 
 and amazingly bikes which are actually fun to drive and perform tricks on, from the straightforward 
 such as wheelies, endos, to the sublime such as standing up on the seat and taunting your opponents 
 as you pass them. In actual races if you pick a bike you realise that there fragile vehicles and 
 you'll often just be muscled out of races with the slightest of touches putting your bike down 
 but Kudos (pun intended) to Bizarre for going the whole hog and not only putting them in but making 
 them an enjoyable addition to the series.
  
  Multiplayer works well too, most enjoyable Live racing I've ever played. Myself and a few friends 
 stuck to Team Racing which has been enjoyable and a different experience with every race. We've 
 had very technical races with other players driving a more respectful race without rubbing to all 
 out brawls with players literally putting people into walls/pitting them. The variety is certainly 
 there, sure it stinks when you play against people that just want to play the game like Burnout 
 all the time but when you get the better of them either through turning the tables on them or outracing 
 them its very rewarding.
  
  In my opinion this is the No. 1 racing game for Xbox closely followed by Burnout, graphics are 
 sublime too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobra_nVidia
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 4 is a large game in which you race in a good variety of different events, 
 a good variety of different vehicles (cars and motorcycles) , a good variety of locations (8 sizable 
 cities + the Nuremburg, and many variations of all) , and under a "be the top ranked in the world" 
 career mode. 
  
  The most striking things about PGR4 initially are both the customizability of your driver, and 
 the quality career mode. In the game, you pick both the gender and nationality of your driver, 
 as well as their outfit colors. It's nice to see a racing game that adds this element - the ability 
 to have some part in the creation of the character you'll be driving around as. It's not detailed, 
 and doesn't really waste your time for any more than a few seconds, but it is nice that it's there.
 
  
  The Career mode of PGR4 is quite nice. As you race in your career you will collect "points" and 
 Kudos. Points accumulate and are used to advance in rank in the world against AI drivers. You gain 
 points based on your standing in a championship - the better you do, the better your points, and 
 the faster you will advance. You keep doing this, advancing in rank and unlocking harder championships, 
 until you reach the top. As well, the game doesn't actually end there, so if you like the feeling 
 of making a character and getting them to Rank 1, you can continue to accumulate points forever. 
 The career technically does not end. 
  
  Kudos is one of the main focuses of PGR. Kudos is a reward system you earn by doing manuvers. These 
 manuvers include drifting, powersliding, high speed, skilled "proper" turning, passing other cars, 
 etc. For bikes you can earn it for many of the same things, as well as for things like wheelies. 
 You use Kudos to unlock various things, such as tracks and vehicles. This is used instead of a 
 traditional "buying". You purchase packs including multiple tracks, vehicles, etc, with Kudos instead 
 of buying them singly with cash. 
  
  The driving engine in PGR4 is a lot of fun. While not a realistic driving model, it does have a 
 bit of a feeling of a very forgiving but solid feeling model that blends arcade racing with simulation 
 racing quite well. On top of that, instead of merely doing racing derivatives (timed laps, eliminators, 
 street racing) there are also some unique races that use both kudos or precise driving skills very 
 well. Superstar is a good example, as it is a game that uses the Kudos system to it's fullest.
 
  
  The game does have some bad points of course. The game seems a bit too hard, especially since it 
 tends to clump factors that would make the game difficult together (e. g. Nuremburg, the hardest 
 track in the game, in the snow, the hardest weather. Or doing races in the rain at night.)
  
  In addition, the Kudos system seems a little unfair, as you can often lose Kudos for crashes 
 that aren't the fault of a manuver you were attempting. It seems to take a long times to count 
 Kudos (sometimes 10 or more seconds after the manuver is done) . There are other issues, both those 
 are the most noticible. 
  
  Overall though, the bikes, the weather, the tracks, the incredible visuals, and the career mode 
 all come together to make this game awesome even with it's flaws. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfire-95
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  to put it straight this is the best racing game i have played on the 360,
  the ability to choose motorbikes make this game even better, and better still you can pull stunts 
 on it and taunt! the gameplay is very good and the speed of the cars is more reallistic. I cant 
 remember if you could take photographs in pgr 3 but you can in this one and add effects to it. 
 One of the funny things about this is crashiny into walls on the bike and taking a photo at the 
 last second. However sadly there is one setback...
  you cant look around in the garage! : (
  
  overall this game is extremely good and i highly reccommend buying it!
  
  thanks for reading
 
  spitfire-95 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koobert
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  It's tough to design a racing game right now. There are so many out there, theoretically capped 
 by the massive achievement that is Gran Turismo 4. For the uninitiated, it looks like everything 
 else is aping this juggernaut series. Even the ever-changing Need for Speed series has moved towards 
 it with its latest release, Pro Street.
  
  So, when Bizarre Creations' Project Gotham Racing 4 was released into this environment, only months 
 after Forza 2, the onus was on it to provide a new, different gaming experience. Otherwise, it 
 would just get lost in the shuffle. The basic ingredients don't sound thrilling: a driving game 
 that balances arcade control with a hint of simulation realism, that has you switching between 
 race events and driving challenges.
  
  What makes the Project Gotham Racing series unique is not what you do, but how you do it. The series, 
 since its genesis as Metropolis Street Racing for the Sega Dreamcast, has been about driving smoothly 
 and stylishly, as well as fast. The twist to its driving system is that you accrue a score, known 
 as kudos, from burning out, keeping a good driving line, not hitting walls or opponents, and doing 
 some incredible drifts.
  
  The second staple of the Project Gotham Racing series has been its replication of cities. Throughout 
 the games, they've built up an incredible roster of detailed, authentic racing locales. Since they've 
 mapped out the city as a whole, there are dozens of courses available throughout, letting you see 
 much of the city.
  
  The other noteworthy achievement of the series has been its position at the pinnacle of graphic 
 prowess at its release. Metropolis Street Racer was an incredible looking game, especially for 
 its renditions of Tokyo, San Francisco, and London. Later games like the Getaway did not match 
 its visual achievements. Project Gotham Racing 2 has some of the best looking environments available 
 on the first generation Xbox, and Project Gotham Racing 3's in-car view was a major selling point 
 for the 360 at its launch. Project Gotham Racing 4, while not a huge step above 3, is easily the 
 best looking racing game out there. Although it might not be running at 60fps, its cities, weather 
 effects, and lighting are great to watch.
  
  In its move towards a more mass-market racing game, Project Gotham's cities have been put at arm's 
 length. No longer are you racing in narrow, cobble-stoned streets, brushing up against the side 
 of buildings. After Project Gotham Racing 3, all these roads have been blocked off with steel barriers 
 and raving crowds. So, while London and Las Vegas may have looked great, they served as more of 
 a backdrop to the racetrack than the track itself. For this sequel, they've retained those barriers, 
 but the courses, for the most part, are more naturally evolved from the city's layout. Especially 
 for the smaller, tighter, curvier courses, it doesn't seem like the city's layout was bent to provide 
 a generic racetrack. But you have to wonder why they bothered with the barriers and crowds. Yes, 
 the moving, fully animated crowds are a graphical achievement, but the game would have been better 
 served to put more life into the city itself. Previous games in the series not only offered some 
 very impressive (and skippable) city fly-bys, but also the option to race the city in the current 
 time of day. It seems like the cities of the 360 Project Gothams aren't used to their full capacity. 
 While they are there, and look gorgeous, you never quite get the feeling of immersion that was 
 present in the earlier releases..
  
  The roster of cities included is a huge jump from any previous game, but this comes at its own 
 cost. The previously visited cities of London, New York, Tokyo, and Las Vegas all have many recycled 
 tracks, where only the time of day is different. You also no longer can see every city at various 
 stages of night and day; Las Vegas, for instance, is always locked in night mode, while New York 
 is at dusk. To make up for these, each city has its own selection of geographically appropriate 
 weather modes. There are thunderstorms, rain, snow. Each of these has their own effect on racing 
 and visibility. So, while there are reused tracks, there are so many more cities on offer that 
 you can't really complain. Consider the reused ones a bonus.
  
  The weather effects are, admittedly, pretty incredible to watch. Water pools up on your windshield, 
 and beads streak across as you pick up speed. The track, too, changes in the rain, with puddles 
 collecting (which adversely effects handling) and the road glistening. You can tell this was the 
 big graphical showcase of the release, and there was a lot of time put into the water looking good. 
 The snow, too, looks good, although without the rutting and deformations of something like the 
 recently released Sega Rally Revo. The graphics in general are rock-steady, but the in-car mode 
 isn't quite as impressive as previous releases. The main problem is that in this mode, the game 
 overrides your HUD selection, making you rely on the visible gauges. Unfortunately, these gauges 
 are obscured by the steering wheel, or are so dimly lit that they just aren't visible. Racing in 
 half of the cars becomes impossible due to an obscured or invisible tachometer. It's a serious 
 problem that wasn't present in the previous game, and makes for a puzzling graphical step back.
 
  
  It's pretty easy to get carried away with the feature set of this game without even touching on 
 the gameplay. The cars control well. The driving physics of Project Gotham have been slowly evolving, 
 always straddling the line between Ridge Racer arcade style driving and Gran Turismo sim. You can 
 do some pretty ridiculous jumps and drifts in this game, and it is rather forgiving. They want 
 you to have fun with the course, and show off your moves. It's an enjoyable balance, especially 
 rewarding during the many cone and kudos based events. Cars are ranked on difficulty, which is 
 something you should really pay attention to  entering into a long series in a tricky to drive 
 car like a TVR can make for some hair-pulling frustration if you aren't prepared.
  
  The game, unfortunately, does have some balancing problems in regards to difficulty level. Project 
 Gotham Racing games have always allowed you to guess before you start on how well you do. Each 
 successive difficulty rating has a more demanding goal, whether it's position in a race, or amount 
 of kudos or stars gained. Unfortunately, the gaps between difficulty levels, especially medium 
 and hard, are huge. The goals in medium are relatively easy to get, but you might try the same 
 course dozens of times on hard before hitting the target. So you can sail through the game easily 
 on medium, or be stuck, gnashing your teeth trying to get anywhere one notch up. You can even the 
 odds somewhat by selecting the best car available in your class. The range of cars available in 
 each driving class is huge. Pick a relative clunker, ranking low on the performance charts, and 
 odds are that unless you are very, very good, you're going to lose the more competitive races.
 
  
  The career mode is a variant on the arcade mode mix of racing and skill games, but its linearity 
 and overall harsh difficulty can be off-putting. It sticks you to a set calendar of events, which 
 you can chose to race or skip. You are always racing against other computer players, even if they 
 aren't onscreen. It's an interesting idea that doesn't quite work. Whether you win or lose some 
 races seems too abstract, because the opponents score doesn't change, as they aren't racing against 
 you. There's no randomness, and really no difference between racing these unseen characters and 
 an arbitrary score like you would see in the arcade mode. Unfortunately, it's the only way to unlock 
 a lot of the cars on offer, so you may want to plough through it on easy if you have a hard time 
 getting anywhere in the ranking.
  
  The kudos mode has its biggest overhaul yet, losing the list of accomplishments in the top-right 
 corner, and replacing it with a star system. The star system works in a similar way to the chaining 
 of kudos combos in previous games. If you make a skilled driving manoeuvre, you get a kudos bonus. 
 Every 100 kudos points nets you a star, and if you make another good move fairly quickly, it'll 
 add up, accruing more points, and more stars, to a maximum of five. At five stars, there's a fairly 
 distracting fireworks show complete with cheering crowd that pops up in the center of the screen.. 
 It's a simple system, but one that seems to be a change for the sake of change, only changing the 
 look of the system, rather than its workings.
  
  One complaint with Project Gotham Racing 3 was that it was purely devoted to supercars. While this 
 might sound appealing on paper, by the final few classes, it resulted in a bunch of cars that felt 
 too similar to drive. 600 horsepower racing cars begin to blur into each other. This was a stark 
 contrast with earlier games in the series, which had a wide variety of vehicles, from econoboxes 
 to race cars. For this release, Bizarre Creations have expanded the lower echelon of cars, featuring 
 some incredible rides like an 80s Firebird and a DeLorean. Unfortunately, there's little in the 
 way of opportunity to use these slower cars. They're there for individual races and multiplayer 
 fun, but mostly irrelevant in the game's arcade or career modes.
  
  Finally, and this is a huge addition to the franchise, there are motorcycles available in every 
 class. The implementation of bikes does change the fundamental balance of the series, as they work 
 completely differently from the cars on offer. The bikes aren't for everyone. You can easily gain 
 kudos from doing some simple trick manoeuvres, like wheelies, and the bikes have incredible acceleration 
 which is balanced by their low top-end speed. In the single-player game, as a bike you can dominate 
 the race, especially in a curve-focused course. But racing in a car against computer players is 
 a different story; you can so easily knock a rider off of their bike that any motorcycle opponent 
 in a race is an easy write-off. Even playing fair, the computer riders don't seem to take advantage 
 of their acceleration bonus and are usually seen far, far behind the pole position. Whether or 
 not you like the bikes is purely subjective; it does seem to dilute the stylish driving focus of 
 the game, but also makes the kudos system easier and more accessible to newcomers to the series.
 
  
  Overall, Project Gotham Racing 4 is a great looking game with a lot of variety. While it takes 
 a small step back towards the uniqueness of the earlier games in the series that was lost in Project 
 Gotham 3, it does still feel unsettlingly generic at times. The addition of weather effects at 
 least pans out to more than just a graphical showcase, and the motorcycles do add a completely 
 new way to race and collect kudos. The recycled levels, small graphic issues, and problematic structure 
 do suggest that Project Gotham Racing could have benefited from a longer development cycle, but 
 don't detract from the game as a whole. It's still worth playing, and does offer a very different 
 experience than any other racing game out there. Let's hope Bizarre keeps it that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue-fish
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing this review to put off work, it's quite simple. I justify it through wanting to tell 
 people about the great game and worthy follow up to the best racer on the first Xbox (that's PGR2 
 for all you tuner-freak Forza fans) . 
  Just to preface: I liked Forza and Forza 2. They are well made and cool games, but to be blunt 
 (and why not, no one is reading anyway) PGR4 is just a better game then both. Firstly: it thrills 
 me. Not by knowing the bazillion calculations that are going on the physics engine nor being able 
 to paint my car so it looks like it belonged to Spider-Man.
  PGR4 takes it's strength from looking real and feeling real ENOUGH that when you plan a corner 
 just right, the lights of an amazing city flying past you as you slam on the gas just as your beautiful 
 car skims the railings and you fly away past the competition, you feel like a complete badass.
 
  It's not real, Forza is real, but gad-dangit if PGR4 doesn't deliver thrills that only it can 
 do. It rewards not for tuning or flashy take-downs but for controlling your car and planning corners 
 just right. The game is fast, but not silly fast. It's real, but not too real. 
  
  Much has been said (and said against) the career mode. It's frustrating at first, but then you 
 think about it and it's quite cool. You race in seasons around the globe to climb the rankings, 
 that's the general idea. You cannot redo races and the car you pick for a set of challenges is 
 the one you are stuck with for those challenges. This just means you look ahead to what you are 
 going to have to do and pick your car accordingly to the types of races, the city it takes place 
 in and the weather you will be having. This add's a level of strategy not usually seen in racers 
 and it would be frustrating if you HAD to win every race, or even come first overall. You don't. 
 because the seasons keep going you can circle the globe as long as you like until you reach first 
 place in the world, and after. It's a cool and refreshing system that I have grown to appreciate 
 greatly.
  
  The Cars Are Wicked Cool. Bikes are ho-hum, not great but can be fun if you put some time into 
 them. There are lots of cars though so don't think you will be wanting for content because of those 
 greedy bikes taking all of the developing time/money.
  
  Not to be just like everyone else, but I think GameSpot needs to get it's eyes checked as this 
 is easily one of the best looking racers out there, rivaling DiRT and surpassing Forza quite easily. 
 There are very little jaggies and the game overall looks a good step up from PGR3 and plays it 
 too.
  
  After all of that it has an arcade mode that is a good chunk of content, a fully furnished online 
 mode (complete with CatAndMouse) and Geometry Wars Waves which offers up a great and unique take 
 on the fantastic Geometry Wars: Evolved.
  
  Lots of cities and courses (a big drawback for PGR3) and tighter driving mechanics make this one 
 of the most underrated and missed opportunities for any 360 owner who is the least bit interested 
 in driving fast and feeling cool. Yes, braking is required often, but it just makes accelerating 
 that much better.
  
  Project Gotham Raceing 4 looks to be the last in the series, a great sucessor to PGR2 and PGR3 
 as well as a good alternative to nookie should you be needing one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpool94
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  
  Great game great single player and career mode. Its the perfect racing game with stunning graphics 
 and game-play with new vehicles and weather witch makes this game even more of a challenge. PGR 
 have thrown in some new weather like snow and rain along with the new bikes. this is a very long 
 game with a lot of twists and turns lol. Take it from me that PGR4 is the game to get so i will 
 be begging Santa to give it to me lol. The affects of snowy weather conditions can send you sliding 
 into the barriers due to the ice but the rain is just as bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  project gotham racing 4 is the best looking driving game i have ever played. the single player 
 is a bit all over the place at first you don't know to do the arcade or carrer. both are good but 
 career is a bit rubbish compared to 3 it has good leader board were you have to try and climb up 
 buy winnig tournements. but you can't buy cars for your garage and you can't place them in your 
 garage. you can make kudos to buy cars for online. the motorbikes are new to pgr but too over powered 
 and are rubbish at cournering and you can get knocked off. when you start a race all the motorbike 
 are at the front and the cars at the back. looks great and i would buy it but a bit dissapointing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J4ckM
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  By now, you would have thought that the racing game genre has been saturated with many different 
 titles. Games like Forza, which offers realism, and games in the Need For Speed Series, which specialize 
 in illegal street racing, plus many others. But the PGR series has always offered steady pick-up-and-play 
 arcade fun. This may have changed a bit in PGR4, but is this racer still the fun, drifting, kudos-building 
 game that the series is famous for? Short answer: Yes.
  
  The main difference between PGR4 and the older PGR3 is the career mode. No longer do you choose 
 an event, and then blast through all the different types of race, maybe having to come third (depending 
 on your difficulty) to win each one. Now the career is organized into a calendar, which means you 
 can only enter events from the day you are on. Don't worry though; you automatically cycle through 
 to the next day where there is a championship, major or invitational. But what are majors and invitationals? 
 A major is a series of races, and after each one a certain amount of contestants are knocked out. 
 This could be you if you come below a certain position. There are 3 majors each season, and the 
 seasons infinitely recycle. An invitational is a special event that allows you to unlock a car 
 if you complete it. These cars can be used in career, arcade mode and online.
  
  Another major change between PGR3 and 4 is the money. Money is now kudos. You buy cars with kudos, 
 extra tracks with kudos and even extra helmets for you biker with kudos. During each event in the 
 career (not majors) you earn kudos. If you come 1st, 2nd, 3rd and so on you earn extra kudos, which 
 adds on to your on-track kudos you earn from drifting, high speed and so on. These amounts can 
 vary from 15,000 (for coming 1st) and 0 (for coming last) . At the end of the event, the racer with 
 the most kudos wins, and receives tour points. Tour points are really the aim of the game in PGR4; 
 they increase your world rank. You start the game 72nd in the world, with your ultimate goal to 
 become 1st. You earn tour points from events and you earn lots of tour points from majors, which 
 is really the only reason to do them.
  
  All modes aside, let's look at the actual driving. The physics are what you would expect from any 
 arcade racer, but with a bit of realism in their for good measure. They feel just right, and driving 
 (and drifting if that's your thing) round corners and down straights is very satisfying. My only 
 complaint is the bikes. Not being into bike racing games myself, I really couldn't grasp there 
 handling style. Sure, they are great on the straights, but going into corners is very tight, and 
 using interior view on the bikes is very disorientating. However, they are not a major let down. 
 
  
  Other than the bikes, another selling point of PGR4 was weather effects. The weather is outstanding. 
 It changes everything, handling wise, but not too much. When raining, you have to pay extra attention 
 to all the corners, to prevent yourself slipping up. Snow is the same, and so are ice and all the 
 other numerous weather effects. Then there is the graphics, which are just as impressive as the 
 weather. They look like the peak for the Xbox 360's power, with hardly any frame rate issues and 
 jaggies. The cars look great, and the interior view + heavy rain is an amazing combination. Seeing 
 the raindrops wash over the windscreen and the wipers wash them off just adds to the realism. All 
 the textures are top-notch and very high quality. The sound is also very good, and much varied 
 depending on which car you are using.
  
  Online modes are great, and much better than Forza's. Just click quick match, and you'll be grouped 
 up in any number of activities such as team races, hot laps or simulation races, which force you 
 to use manual transmission and interior view. There is no lag whatsoever, and voice chat works 
 great. It is definitely the best online racing game out there.
  
  So, in conclusion, PGR4 is a great game. I have hardly any complaints, them being the bikes, which 
 I'm sure many people will like, and the fact that once you're done, it can get boring going through 
 events for no reason. Nevertheless, I give this game a 9/10. This is probably the best racing game 
 on the system, and a definite must buy for any racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scytherage
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  After you've bought Forza 2 you might think that getting this game is a downgrade, because you 
 can't customize your ride and the physics are leaning more towards arcade than simulator.
  
  You couldn't be more wrong.
  
  What PGR4 lacks in physics realism, it makes up for in pure 
 racing fun and with its incredible sense of speed and detail.
  
  I give it a 10 because it deserves more attention, it's just leaps and bounds better than PGR3; 
 and with Bizarre leaving Microsoft this may very well be the LAST great Project Gotham Racing game 
 ever made.
  
  Farewell Bizarre, great job on this game. You will be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 4
  Xbox 360
  
  Finaly a Project Gotham I like I hated all the other PGR games but this is just awsome. In PGR 
 4 they have introduced motorbikes that just look beautiful, The bikes are fast off the line and 
 good around the corners but the fast bike is not the fast but it the other way round with the cars 
 so PGR 4 has a good mix of the two type of vehicles. 
  
  This game has alot of easy acheviment for you obtain so if you an acheviment freak like me you 
 will love this game.
  
  The game career mode is good fun to play going though the season. The bikes and cars are very well 
 design and look awsome, The track are drifferent and look colourful.
  
  The best thing on the game is the weather effects, The rain effect has had so much work put into 
 and it just looks the best.
  
  Overall PGR 4 is one of the best racing game on the xbox 360, So if a fan of the series or you 
 didn't like the other PGR you should go and buy this one you will not be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TTDog
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  The main point of playing a game, any game, is surely to have fun, that it is making you happy.
 
  If, when playing the game, you feel like you're being punished for some unknown sin, then its 
 probably not the game for you.
  To me playing Gran Turismo is like I've been given lines in school, you just seem to do the same 
 thing over and over again and any fun that was there at the start rapidly vanishes into the ether.
 
  The Project Gotham series, on the other hand, is a lot of fun.
  Like GT is has some amazing looking graphics, although GT fans only seem willing to show off the 
 replay graphics as opposed to in game visuals, it has a wide variety of tracks and cars to drive 
 on them, you can only customise the paint work but anything more than that is getting way too detailed 
 for my liking and the level of fun drops.
  It doesn't make you repeat races over and over again to get a few extra credits, the AI cars actually 
 have some idea of how to race rather than follow a pre-determined route, and even though its limited 
 to a few broken windows and scratches, there is damage modelling on the cars.
  Did I mention is also fun?
  I did, okay then, just making sure.
  Unlike the Need For Speed 
 series the in game music is more than passable, I'd already pre loaded a few albums onto my hard 
 drive to use as a custom soundtrack, but I've yet to play any of them, a few of the tracks are 
 even already included in the game.
  There's variety in the game modes as well, straightforward races and time trials make up a big 
 portion of the career mode, but there are also One on One races, the Cone Sprints as seen in previous 
 instalments, as well as Super Cone Sprints which do the same thing but much more intensely, Kudos 
 v Time challenges where you are given an inadequate amount of time to finish the race but can stop 
 the clock counting down by performing all the usual drifts, power slides and jumps that build up 
 your Kudos.
  Only once have I encountered any slow down, and that was in one particular race, at one particular 
 corner in one particular mode not exactly a common fault.
  Bizarre have yet to produce a bad racing game, and with the latest version of Geometry Wars thrown 
 in for good measure you can't really go wrong with this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chandler_UK
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  Having not played a PGR game since the dizzy heights of PGR2 on the original Xbox I was a little 
 out of touch with the PGR evolution. However I can say with all honesty that this is the most exciting 
 racing game I have played since time began... maybe.
  
  First off, this is the first game I have really indulged in online, games such as Halo and other 
 racers always tended to be quick fixes and inevitably got boring fast, however the sheer amount 
 of game modes available and the great online community (aside from the few inevitable sour grapes 
 along the way) have made me almost forget about the single player element. However I will give 
 a few quick points of interest on the solo play.
  
  Cars: So many beautiful things, it's hard to choose. From a Mini Cooper to the CaparoT1
  
  
 Bikes: Oh yes, lots of bikes that almost certainly make you feel like your in control of a restless 
 stallion (hugely fun online, trying to avoid getting smashed from your bike by angry racers online.)
 
  
  Tracks: Huge combinations of tracks and weather conditions make for some extreme gameplay and really 
 sort the men from the boys when your driving at 200mph in a rain storm with 7 other cars jostling 
 for position.
  
  Achievements: Aside from the normal XBL achievements I have become obsessed with unlocking everything 
 in the PGR shop (a place where you can buy more and more exotic racers.) The Kudos system is very 
 well balanced and you never feel that achieving Kudos is to easy or to hard on your journey to 
 buy the fastest and most beautiful cars and bikes in the world.
  
  Arcade mode: If you don't feel like earning those precious ranking points simply hop into arcade 
 for some fast paced medal awarding action, its really all here.
  
  Online: Yes, yes, yes. All of off line with the added bonus of whooping some real life arse.
 
  
  What are you doing still reading, go and buy it, you know you want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1racerjb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  PGR4 has everything you've come to expect from the franchise-top notch graphics, exotic cars from 
 all the major manufacturers complete with inside views, real world cities and a sizeable soundtrack; 
 but theres a few new things to keep it fresh and fun in this iteration of the series. My personal 
 favorite new feature is weather. Mother nature will now be a factor in the outcome of competition 
 in the form of rain, fog, ice and yes, snow (just in time for the holidays!) . The Nurburgring map 
 was even re rendered with leafless trees for a realistic winter view. The other major addition 
 is two wheeled competition from motorcycles; now you can race in a motorcycle against cars or vice 
 versa. There are some kudos only possible with a bike- wheelies and stoppies. Also worth mentioning 
 is a website devoted to PGRers called PGRnations. net witch focuses on Xbox live enabled countries 
 and their respective Live account holders' standings in the game. The only thing this game lacks, 
 for me, are more actual racing circuits like Nurburgring, but Im a motorsport purist- most will 
 be satisfied with the venues offered here. Well there you have it . If you enjoyed past PGRs you 
 will only find more to like in this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balla4162
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  PGR4 is arguably the best arcade-sim racer ever to hit the gaming market. It has been totally revamped 
 from is predecessor pgr3. PGR4 comes in with a whole new style adding better graphics and a weather 
 system. The weather system affects the motion of the car throughout the track which makes the game 
 even more fun. There is rain, snow, ice and fog. The game has added a lot of new cars to the game 
 and some tracks. The sound really lives up to the game and the engine sounds are really beautiful. 
 The Cock-pit view is really great because you can see the interior of a car you will probably never 
 sit in, in your life. The single player campaign is consisted of 3 seasons in which you must race 
 to win certain championships. I challenged myself and played it on hardcore. It is really long 
 if you play it on hard core. The 1st season took me 10 hours alone from retrying. The new addition 
 is buying cars and tracks using your kudos that you earn throughout your races. To sum it all up 
 if you are a racing fan or just wanna go out there and drift pgr4 is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seleca
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Great game as always. Just as fun. they included the same tracks from the 3rd aswell as obviously 
 adding a pletehra of even more tracks. The cars are beautiful and a wonder to control yet again, 
 and the additon of super-bikes is always welcome. Both have their own +'s and -'s. The only difference 
 from the 3rd [Well, the major difference] is that this version is more 'Arcadey'. It focusses on 
 being basic and gritty/cool rather than smooth and professional looking like the 3rd. The Gotham 
 career in 4 also adds a new edge of realism and a whole new amount of challenges ontop of the arcade 
 mode [Pretty much what Gotham 3's career mode was] . Not much progress has been made though. It 
 pretty much the exact same game as before, but with added weather conditions. Graphics are the 
 same as always too. But when theyre that good anyways, who needs to disrupt a winning formula. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danishkhan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham 4 is a very solid arcade style racer that comes with a complete package of excellent 
 game modes. Three key additions in PGR4 really make this game worthwhile: The New Career Mode, 
 Motorcycles And Weather.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in PGR4 are outstanding. The cars are sleek and smooth from the outside from any angle. 
 The interiors are just as Awesome, with fully detailed views from the driver's seat that will really 
 catch your eye. The newly added weather effects (from rain to storms to snow to heavy fog) all 
 can be seen collecting on your windshield or car exterior in just one more example of the solid 
 graphics provided in PGR4. The environments also offer a beautiful view, although speeding through 
 the streets or tracks doesn't allow much time to gawk.
  
  Sound
  
  Sound is also well done. The cars sound excellent from the growl of the engine to the squealing 
 tires around the turns. The bikes also sound great, from the throaty roar of street bikes to the 
 whiny scream of a racing bike, each one has its own sound. Music varies from jazz to rock to world 
 music and each style can be set to play or not play during your races, allowing you to set your 
 own playlists.
  
  Gameplay
  
  My One gripes that kept me from rating this one higher, cars are purchased in packs in the PGR 
 Shop. too many folks that get further into the career as you'll start finding it easy to win lots 
 of money. But it would be nice to have the option to buy single cars instead of having to buy an 
 entire pack of cars that you may not want. Thankfully, the packs are pretty affordable, so it's 
 not too bad.
  
  I wasn't expecting much of this game when I first played it. But PGR4 exceeded any and all expectations 
 I had and really hooked me from the start.
  
  Pros:
  +Buying items with kudos is a nice incentive for driving with style.
  +Rain Effects Are The Best 
 of The New Weather Effects
  +Inclusion of Motorcycles
  +Pure Adrenaline Racing
  +Beautiful Cars and Courses
  
  Cons:
  -Motorcycles seem overpowered 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nucksfan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  PGR 4 is a great game. New additions, such as tracks, bikes and weather effects great and add to 
 all ready solid gameplay; as long as you don't expect full sim racing. PGR has always been more 
 arcade racer than sim, but don't let that keep you away, this game is a lot of fun and multiplayer 
 is the main reason for that enjoyment.
  One other improvement in the track design worth mentioning is that Bizarre have adjusted sections 
 of track that were prone to pile ups in PGR3. It doesn't mean first turn pile ups won't happen, 
 they won't happen as often.
  My only gripe is with the single player campaign. I didn't enjoy how the tour mode worked During 
 a championship, the player is locked into a certain car, with no way to restart without abandoning 
 the entire series only to wait until next season to try again. This bothereed me because I could 
 enter a series and sometimes not have the right car available beacuse I hadn't unlocked it, yet. 
 Overall, the new and great aspects of this game far outweigh the annoying quirks of the single 
 player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Its all beautiful. The online, the single player, the handling., brilliant. We still have the crash 
 you out first corner morons online that give YOU bad feedback but all in all, the best yet. The 
 PGR nations site is a brilliant addition and team racing championship is a definate ... just one 
 more game cry.
  
  The game (thank god) is slightly less slippy in the higer class cars than the last one so manual 
 is once again an option.
  
  The addition of bikes hasnt done it for me as im a die hard MotoGp2/3/06/07 fan and nothing is 
 equalling that, so for me they are a bit twitchy, pointless in an online lobby as you just get 
 knocked off, but i have knocked a car off the line with one!!! The online championships are great 
 using a mixture of the gameplay modes, time attack, hotlap and eliminator as well as straight forward 
 racing.
  
  The game is great. A must for your collection. Between this, halo3 bioshock, motogp, proevo, blue 
 dragon anda few of the new arcade titles the xbox has a solid line up of games that will keep any 
 gamer hooked for hours.
  
  PGR4 is brilliant and finally, with default cars, HARDCORE is hardcore. All i wanted for christmas 
 was a pgr as hard as the 2nd one . .and i got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braderz13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  I have never played project gotham before and decided i had some spare dosh and got this game.
 
  
  I didnt know what to expect but i was not disapointed. The graphics, car gameplan, lifespan etc... 
 are the best.
  
  It beats every other game which lets you fly into a corner at 250 mph without even denting ur car 
 and lets you carry on.
  
  This is a driving game for people with skill.
  
  I would recommend to anyone to buy this game.
  
  I wouldnt believe the bad reviews of it because 
 after people playing pgr 3 they expect so much more of the next series which can dissapoint most 
 people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick-M40A3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I would say this is the best PGR to date, just ahead of PGR2. It doesn't do much different than 
 previous PGR games, but as a whole I think PGR4 does just enough to warrant a 9.0 score.
  
  Things I like
  
  Some of the best track design I've ever seen in a racing game. You travel 
 to America, Europe and Asia in career mode and get to race around some stunning looking tracks 
 with amazing scenery, buildings and lighting, best looking racing game I've ever played. The game 
 is pretty well stuffed with content, the career is lengthy, you have arcade mode, time trials, 
 and can upload and download ghosts, pictures, videos. Couldn't really ask for more.
  
  Loads of very cool cars, and bikes, haven't really learned how to ride the bikes yet but it adds 
 to the package and is a nice bonus. But we warned, at first they take some getting used to. You 
 have your super cars right down to your minis, rocket shaped cars, and trucks. The variety of vehicles 
 should keep most people happy.
  
  The weather... wow, racing around New York in a lighting storm in my Enzo was one of those special 
 moments you get in games sometimes, the weather just looks great and adds a new twist to races, 
 you have to adjust your speed and handling if you're racing on ice, wet, or in thick fog. It really 
 adds atmosphere to the races, something the PGR games have been lacking in the past imo. this is 
 the biggest new addition to the game, and a very welcome one.
  
  I cannot comment on the online play as I have not played it online yet. But I've heard it's solid 
 and fun to play online. Also I have only played the new Geometry wars once so cannot really form 
 a opinion on it yet.
  
  I do have a couple problems with PGR4, the soundtrack is very forgettable, I would even call it 
 poor, some very strange song choices in this game. Not a problem for those who listen to custom 
 sound tracks, but still I thought the songs pretty much sucked in this game, and they seem to get 
 drowned out by the engine noises more than I would have liked. Maybe that's a good thing...
  
  There seems to be a lot of menus to get through after every race. Can get annoying. Overall 
 the menus could have been done a lot better.
  
  Buying cars in packs of five can be a pain when all you want is one of them. It's a strange new 
 addition to the game and a negative one in my humble opinion.
  
  Some levels on normal difficulty seem overly hard, while some are to easy, I think there are some 
 balancing issues with the difficulty in campaign mode, not game breaking , but it does seem a bit 
 to hard on normal mode, then again maybe it's just me playing poorly.
  
  I don't like the way you browse the shop to buy stuff, it's just a grey menu with points on it, 
 the show rooms of the previous game were a much nicer way to buy cars. And the garages in PGR4 
 that I've seen so far don't seem to be as nice as PGR3.
  
  Overall PGR4 does a lot of things well, and only has some minor problems, if you liked any of the 
 previous PGR games then you will more than likely think this one is great. But it does feel very 
 similar to previous games in the series and could have done with some more new stuff to make it 
 feel more fresh. Try the demo first to be sure it's right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastheace
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham 4 is a very solid arcade style racer that comes with a complete package of excellent 
 game modes. It's a huge step up from PGR3 in gameplay, graphics and fun factor. Three key additions 
 in PGR4 really make this game worthwhile: the new career mode, motorcycles and weather.
  
  The graphics in PGR4 are outstanding. The cars are sleek and smooth from the outside from any angle. 
 The interiors are just as snazzy, with fully detailed views from the driver's seat that will really 
 catch your eye. The newly added weather effects (from rain to storms to snow to heavy fog) all 
 can be seen collecting on your windshield or car exterior in just one more example of the solid 
 graphics provided in PGR4. The environments also offer a beautiful view, although speeding through 
 the streets or tracks doesn't allow much time to gawk.
  
  Sound is also well done. The cars sound excellent from the growl of the engine to the squealing 
 tires around the turns. The bikes also sound great, from the throaty roar of street bikes to the 
 whiny scream of a racing bike, each one has its own sound. Music varies from jazz to rock to world 
 music and each style can be set to play or not play during your races, allowing you to set your 
 own playlists.
  
  The real draw in PGR4 for me is the career mode. Unlike PGR3, which felt like a random collection 
 of races thrown at you in an unorganized manner, this game boasts a calendar with scheduled events 
 in various continents. Monthly events include anything from championship races, invitationals (where 
 you earn cars or bikes by performing certain tasks) and majors at the end of each time in a specific 
 region. If you perform poorly in an event and don't win, you'll have to wait until the next season 
 rolls around to attempt to win that specific event again. Points are earned for each event that 
 you successfully complete and these points decide your place on the ranking list. What is great 
 about this system is that the races that are in proximity to you in the rankings are your opponents 
 and they are gaining (or losing) points in the same events, so the rankings are not static and 
 really are affected by your performance on the track. This mode really brings a more realistic 
 feel of a career mode and is one of the best improvements you'll find in PGR4.
  
  There's also the well-known Arcade mode. In this mode, you attempt to earn various medals by obtaining 
 various specific requirements in individual events. Multiplayer is pretty basic, but it works very 
 well. You can race in any type of event that you can do in single player modes with folks on XBox 
 Live.
  
  My two gripes that kept me from rating this one higher are these: First, cars are purchased in 
 packs in the PGR Shop. This won't be annoying to too many folks that get further into the career 
 as you'll start finding it easy to win lots of money. But it would be nice to have the option to 
 buy single cars instead of having to buy an entire pack of cars that you may not want. Thankfully, 
 the packs are pretty affordable, so it's not too bad. Second, the interior views on some of the 
 cars make you feel like you are sitting in the back seat and hence have what seems like small window 
 views, which can deter you from using this view in certain cars. Lastly, in some night races, your 
 car's headlights (which are on in other night and day races) are off. This can result in some of 
 the darker tracks being difficult to see. Sure, you can change your TV's brightness levels, but 
 you'll have to change them right back for day races and this shouldn't have to be changed to begin 
 with.
  
  Even with those minor gripes, PGR4 is an excellent game that provides highly addictive racing with 
 a good amount of gameplay modes. I was turned off by PGR3, so I wasn't expecting much of this game 
 when I first played it. But PGR4 exceeded any and all expectations I had and really hooked me from 
 the start 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSGDevilDog
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham 4 is a very solid arcade style racer that comes with a complete package of excellent 
 game modes. It's a huge step up from PGR3 in gameplay, graphics and fun factor. Three key additions 
 in PGR4 really make this game worthwhile: the new career mode, motorcycles and weather.
  
  The graphics in PGR4 are outstanding. The cars are sleek and smooth from the outside from any angle. 
 The interiors are just as snazzy, with fully detailed views from the driver's seat that will really 
 catch your eye. The newly added weather effects (from rain to storms to snow to heavy fog) all 
 can be seen collecting on your windshield or car exterior in just one more example of the solid 
 graphics provided in PGR4. The environments also offer a beautiful view, although speeding through 
 the streets or tracks doesn't allow much time to gawk.
  
  Sound is also well done. The cars sound excellent from the growl of the engine to the squealing 
 tires around the turns. The bikes also sound great, from the throaty roar of street bikes to the 
 whiny scream of a racing bike, each one has its own sound. Music varies from jazz to rock to world 
 music and each style can be set to play or not play during your races, allowing you to set your 
 own playlists.
  
  The real draw in PGR4 for me is the career mode. Unlike PGR3, which felt like a random collection 
 of races thrown at you in an unorganized manner, this game boasts a calendar with scheduled events 
 in various continents. Monthly events include anything from championship races, invitationals (where 
 you earn cars or bikes by performing certain tasks) and majors at the end of each time in a specific 
 region. If you perform poorly in an event and don't win, you'll have to wait until the next season 
 rolls around to attempt to win that specific event again. Points are earned for each event that 
 you successfully complete and these points decide your place on the ranking list. What is great 
 about this system is that the races that are in proximity to you in the rankings are your opponents 
 and they are gaining (or losing) points in the same events, so the rankings are not static and 
 really are affected by your performance on the track. This mode really brings a more realistic 
 feel of a career mode and is one of the best improvements you'll find in PGR4.
  
  There's also the well-known Arcade mode. In this mode, you attempt to earn various medals by obtaining 
 various specific requirements in individual events. Multiplayer is pretty basic, but it works very 
 well. You can race in any type of event that you can do in single player modes with folks on XBox 
 Live.
  
  My two gripes that kept me from rating this one higher are these: First, cars are purchased in 
 packs in the PGR Shop. This won't be annoying to too many folks that get further into the career 
 as you'll start finding it easy to win lots of money. But it would be nice to have the option to 
 buy single cars instead of having to buy an entire pack of cars that you may not want. Thankfully, 
 the packs are pretty affordable, so it's not too bad. Second, the interior views on some of the 
 cars make you feel like you are sitting in the back seat and hence have what seems like small window 
 views, which can deter you from using this view in certain cars. Lastly, in some night races, your 
 car's headlights (which are on in other night and day races) are off. This can result in some of 
 the darker tracks being difficult to see. Sure, you can change your TV's brightness levels, but 
 you'll have to change them right back for day races and this shouldn't have to be changed to begin 
 with.
  
  Even with those minor gripes, PGR4 is an excellent game that provides highly addictive racing with 
 a good amount of gameplay modes. I was turned off by PGR3, so I wasn't expecting much of this game 
 when I first played it. But PGR4 exceeded any and all expectations I had and really hooked me from 
 the start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b0-0n
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  PGR3 was without a doubt a fun racing game that in the beginning of the next-gen racing experience 
 could convince with beautiful graphics and smooth gameplay, added with extensive online possibilities. 
 Bizarre Creations, however, was less pleased as due to time pressure they didn't manage to realise 
 the ultimate vision of their racing game. With Project Gotham Racing 4 they managed to do what 
 they wanted and set down a new standard. Although veterans of the series shouldn't expect all too 
 many surprises, some nice innovations are present and to be found. The Career has changed a bit; 
 you get a full calendar of events that come back every year and as usual you need to climb from 
 a nobody to a beloved God of Burning Rubber. Of course luck has something to do with that, along 
 with how well you drive during the races.
  
  This more realistic structure luckily isn't a signal for the makers to forget their more exciting 
 and sexy racing missions. You'll still have to bully flash cameras, finish races against time and 
 of course successfully end takeover games. The Arcade mode has become a little more interesting 
 as this is the only part where is being worked with the so well-known medals that drive you to 
 the ultimate limits with the platinum rewards, or that allow the lesser drivers to get a bronze 
 medal.
  
  Noteworthy, and very pleasing for me personally, is the fact that the car park not only exists 
 out of unattainable super cars anymore, but also has other ones going from a simple Mini Cooper 
 over the Audi RS4 to the Ariel Atom and the Koenigsegg CCX. A lot more variation so to speak and 
 a better way to get used to the horsepower of the top cars as well as the feeling that you truly 
 get rewarded for your growing racing skills! Also the driving model and controls keep that perfect 
 and hard to analyze middle between the arcade feeling from the past and the simulated realism of 
 Forza. PGR remains for now the king of how to make a driving game accessible and giving adrenaline 
 pumping gameplay without showing childish road behaviour.
  
  New, and controversial, are the bikes that for the first time in history roam the tracks of PGR. 
 As if the makers were conscious of the fact that many fans of the series would be a little negative 
 towards motorcycles you can finish most of the game by car. People that want to do some wheelies 
 will have to count in the fact that the motos are a lot harder to control and also need a more 
 subtle and calculated driving style. Especially the curves proved more demanding and most people 
 will prefer the cars despite the faster accelleration most bikes offer.
  
  New York, the legendary Nurburgrin, London and Tokyo are back as tracks, but also newcomers like 
 Shanghai, St.-Petersburg, Macau and Qu&eacute; bec manage to impress. You get a lot of variation, 
 not only in environment and types of tracks (fast and wide, short and curvy) , but also between 
 the diverse layouts of one city. Stuff for both speedfreaks as well as lovers of curves!
  
  Combine that with the new weather-engine and you've got a setting that lets excitement jump in 
 your face. Rain, snow, fog, ice, .... it's all preent, has a real effect on how your car reacts 
 and how you take a turn, and thanks to the way the graphics put this on your screen it will enhance 
 the realism again a little higher compared to the predecessor. And yes, it looks even more impressive 
 when choosing the cockpit view.
  
  Visual whores that kick on sharp textures, sexy car models and detailed surroundings can be happy 
 again, and everything flies by at a steady framerate although it's not as high as that of Forza 
 2. Maybe next time?
  
  Also powerful are the online possibilities of PGR4. Almost endless amounts of leaderboards to break 
 your teeth on or achieve eternal glory, a ton of options to set up your own races and more than 
 enough way to be able to play with those people you like most. The cat-and-mouse game is this time 
 integrated in the game and is really a lot of fun. One person a team gets a slow car and needs 
 to get it over the finish line as soon as possible. The rest of the players choose fast vehicles 
 and need to protect their own mouse while trying to get rid of the other.
  
  Also Gotham TV has evolved to PGR On Demand where gamers get to upload their exploits in movie 
 or picture form, after which they can be shared, evaluated and searched upon by the entire community. 
 And as cherry on the pie there's Geometry Wars: Waves in an arcade in your still freely accessible 
 garage.
  
  Project Gotham Racing 4 is a lot. It's the ultimate and best balanced PGR up till now, it's filled 
 with content and has beautiful graphics, and excellent and exciting driving model, online possibilities 
 that work perfectly and will guarantee years of fun and pure racing pleasure. A big fat suggestion, 
 even in these times of abundance in the genre for X360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  While you cant quibble with the quality of Halo 3 - and, to be honest, our trigger finger is still 
 sore from hammering the Covenant - on reflection the game probably didnt deserve five stars as 
 it so doggedly followed the template set by its predecessors and lacked BioShocks visual splendour. 
 So we wont be making the same mistake with PGR.
  
  Like Halo 3, PGR4 is an incredible game, subtly blending the conventions of a driving sim with 
 the thrills of an arcade racer; and if youre already a PGR devotee this slick update is exactly 
 what you want. The inclusion of convincing weather effects also makes for a more exciting ride 
 - especially when sliding through a puddle on the apex of an impossible bend - and the addition 
 of motorbikes also brings a sense of danger during the tense urban scrambles that pit four wheels 
 against two.
  
  But theres no escaping the fact that most of PGR4s developments are purely cosmetic and, while 
 its still the finest speedster on the 360, it leaves the empty feeling that - with a little imagination 
 - it could have been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  PGR 4 is a great racing game. A great arcade racing game. If you are looking for alot of tuning, 
 tweaking, tire pressure, or parts in your racing games then stay away from this racer. Now that 
 being said PGR is not meant to be a sim racer. It is a arcade racer for people who like to jump 
 in and do what is the most fun thing to do in a race game which is race! The racing is off the 
 hook. It is great. The graphics are mind blowing. I know some poeple have said that the graphics 
 are not good and all I can say is maybe they are not playing on a good TV with HD, because this 
 game looks beautiful ! The cars you are able to purchase in the game are great. You have cars, 
 trucks, old school muscle cars, and motocycles. The paint editor is kind of limited in what you 
 can do to deatil your car but AGAIN back to my first point..... I wanna RACE not look at my car! 
 if you want a pure arcade racer you can get into without all the fuss of parts, psi in your tires, 
 and tuning then this game will deliver you lots of FUN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukePenfold
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  One of the things I liked about pgr3 was the car handling in this game it seems very different 
 the cars are less responsive so it takes the fun away abit another thing that I noticed about this 
 game is how the menus were very much like forza motorsport 2. The gameplay is abit different from 
 the last as you now have weather effects other than that the gameplay is the same. the graphics 
 are fantastic the cars look brilliant and the environments are looking good. The sound is still 
 the same as pgr3 Overall I dont like this game as much as Pgr3 but this game is better in some 
 areas. I have enjoyed playing it and it is still the best racing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kubrick_11442
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 1:40 am PT
Review:  My first impressions of PGR 4 were ones of familiarity but not with PGR 3 more Forza Motor Sport 
 2, but as I played my way through career mode and online I began to see a little glimpse of classic 
 PGR. For example cornering is no longer as easy as we found in PGR 3 but however PGR4 still managers 
 to feel more like an arcade experience than one of a driving simulation. The main new feature in 
 PGR 4 over its predecessors is the ability to race on a bike along side cars, which has never been 
 seen before, so all that is left is for you to decide weather or not you prefer 2 wheels to 4. 
 This feature makes online play on Xbox Live a really different experience and can change the way 
 you take on opponents and can even change the way you race from one track to the next. The second 
 main new feature is the dynamic weather system which does actually play a major part in the way 
 you race and your cars performance, for example if you race in heavy rain as the race goes on big 
 patches of water will form on the track which make it impossible to get grip unless you go really 
 slow, the same goes for the snow which can have hidden ice patches which also make it impossible 
 to get grip even in a 4 wheel drive car. You also can see the weather effects on the car rain drops 
 hitting and rolling down the cars. The dynamic weather system becomes even more noticeable when 
 us race using the in car view which shows the rain fall blocking and obstructing your view and 
 as you would expect you have wipers moving it out of your sight, a problem I have found is the 
 wipers are a bit slow moving so people who like playing with the in car view will be at more of 
 a disadvantage in the rain compared to people who dont. The weather effects are good but when 
 you race online they tend to over use this new feature in ranked matches where the weather and 
 tracks are chosen for you, so it can become really annoying being in 1st place and then losing 
 it on one corner because you couldnt get traction because of the weather, but I guess that is 
 the point of the feature to keep the drivers alert and try to make the racers closer to stop the 
 more experienced PGR players just pulling away within seconds, all in all I think the weather keeps 
 races exciting and unpredictable. PGR 4 contains another new feature which is the ability to share 
 replays and still photos with others online in PGR on demand, all you have to do is upload your 
 replay or screen shoot onto the PGR database and it will be instantly accessible by the entire 
 Xbox live community you can also view your friends replays and screenshots and vote for best and 
 worst of each. You can also download your friends ghost times from certain tracks so you can practise 
 against them without them even being there which means next time you actually race them you will 
 have your race style refined to defeat them with ease. Unlike PGR 3 4 has a separate career and 
 arcade mode, career is set over seasons which last about 6 months and contains about 15 events 
 a season including invitational which give you the opportunity to unlock cars and bikes without 
 spending any Kudos some of these vehicles cant actually be bought either so it is best to do these 
 events even though they are optional. Your goal in career mode to make it to driver rank number 
 1, you do this the way you would expect by winning events and gaining points for each event as 
 you go through career mode and you get ranked higher you unlock higher events which give you better 
 career points. Career mode is separated into 10 chapters, all of which can be completed in 5 difficulties 
 ranging from steel to platinum .8 of the 10 arcade chapters need to be completed on both a bike 
 and in a car. The other 2 chapter are exclusive events for either a car or a bike. This arcade 
 contains events such as Cone Sprint, Time V. S. Kudos and Breakthrough and also contains a new mode 
 called Superstar which requires you to earn a certain number of Kudos stars to win. PGR now contains 
 cars and bikes from over 50 manufacturers including Ferrari, Ducati, Aston Martin and Keonigsegg, 
 with over 120 vehicles in total, ranging from an the old school 1960s Mini Cooper S or the DeLorean 
 DMC 12, to Ferrari F50 or the first street legal F1 car the Caparo T1. All cars models in this 
 game look wonderful and well proportioned compared to some racing games where cars can look out 
 of shape from there real life counterparts. The heart of PGR still remains the Kudos you earn for 
 racers, but this time it has been refined instead of a separate Kudos and credits account they 
 are now combined which means you now earn Kudos for your finishing position as well as your on 
 the track style and stunts. Your Kudos can be used in PGR shop to unlock things from car packs 
 or tracks all the way up to a million Kudos gamer picture which also unlocks an achievement when 
 it is bought. There are also Kudos stars these are awarded for getting a certain amount of Kudos 
 for a certain maneuver or stringing together a sequence of maneuvers. Depending on weather you 
 are in a car or on a bike also effects the type of Kudos Maneuvers you can perform for example 
 on a bike you can perform a wheelie or and endo, but in a car you can perform a two wheel stunt 
 and drifting maneuvers are also easier to achieve in a car as you tend to be thrown from your bike 
 if you drift for too long.
  
  There is also a lot more variety in the tracks in PGR 4 it still contains all the PGR 3 cities 
 and tracks we love such as Her Majesties Pleasure or Boulevard Straights, but then you also 
 have the new cities Shanghai, Quebec, St. Petersburg and Macau. Each with a wide range of selection 
 to suit everybodys racing style weather it be all power and limited handling or the other way 
 around there truly is a lot her for everyone.
  
  The online on PGR 4 is basically the same as PGR 3 with custom street races or elimination, cat 
 and mouse and cone capture with up to 8 players in each, the best online feature though is the 
 ability to have online ranked match championships with a team of friends, this mode is basically 
 the same as a single player career event in that it is not just a single race it is a series of 
 3 races and you also are part of a team with all your teams score from all 3 races making up your 
 teams final total, but like I said before the weather effects system in this mode can be a real 
 pain but if you get a good track with clear weather this mode is easily the best thing about PGR4. 
 It is fair to say although my first impression wasnt that of a PGR title I think the game is better 
 for the half driving sim half arcade racer approach it broadens the market of the game and makes 
 it pick up and playable for a wider audience of people, PGR 4 has truly set a new benchmark for 
 next gen racing titles and is a must buy for any existing or future 360 owners. I truly do not 
 have a bad comment about this game other than the weather problems in online ranked match mode 
 I mentioned earlier, which really isnt a downside to the game as it a thing to keep the game fresh 
 and make each race even on the same track different from the last adding reply value and making 
 it a title to return to time and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  I only rented this game, and I don't plan on buying it, but in the 5 days I've had it, I've beaten 
 all the career races with silver medals (I'm not hard core enough to go for platinum :P ) .
  
  I have to say my favorite part of this game is the snow. Even though the snow isn't realistic 
 (in the sense that it doesn't accumulate) , its still a hell of a lot of fun to drive on.
  The only thing I don't like about the winter weather, is on the icy tracks, the ice isn't too realistic. 
 Like once you're on the ice, you better not have to brake or steer, because it just won't work, 
 no matter how fast you're going. But its a little strange that for a few seconds after you get 
 off the ice, you still don't have much traction.
  
  And when it rains, the puddles also make it hard to control.
  
  But it is nice that when it 
 rains or snows, you can see it on the vehicles and if you look on the inside view, you can see 
 the wipers cleaning it off. But then that effect is ruined when it starts to accumulate again, 
 look at it closely and you'll understand what I mean.
  
  And I have seen better vehicle detail in games before, but there is still enough detail for you 
 to figure out what vehicle it is.
  
  Anyways, this game is probably worth a buy if you are really into PGR and don't mind that the driving 
 physics aren't that realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getsetgo
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game is so good i don`t know where to start. The graphics are the best i have ever seen on 
 any console or PC. The car physics are perfect. The sensation of speed is the best because it is 
 so realistic. The variety of challenges are great and keeps you busy and similing for ages. The 
 tracks are really intelligently designed. The way they combine straights and corners is just genious. 
 The cars sound and look fantastic. The bikes are fun, especially , when you race them on 1st person 
 view. I love this game. I thought PGR3 and 2 where the best racing games so far, and they were, 
 but PGR4 just took the new gen games to a higher level. I am sorry if i sound a bit over the top, 
 but this game is just perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelaidKL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay heres where it starts. After getting rid and bored to death with PGR 3 i was taking a huge 
 risk purchasing this one. I jumped straight into career mode finding the new calender and menu 
 good and better then the last. I quickly picked my car and took off to the first championship. 
 The game hit me straight away with its fantastic handling and smooth graphics. Enjoying it i continue 
 until i reached 20,000 kudos. Now this is what i dont like. You cant by cars but you can only unlock 
 them by earning kudos, why! After thinking about it it was done to make the game more fun but still 
 i still want to purchase instead of be given. AI has improved by miles, setting the game to normal 
 the AI is not hard but at least they don't wait up. Hard mode makes the game hard and fun, in a 
 hard way, and multi player races have also been improved. Anyway i can only say im glad i went 
 with my instincts and not its predecesor as the game is a brilliant racing game... if it wasn't 
 for the disgraceful motor bikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycosi
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  As any early release for the 360 I've got to say that I really really liked PGR3. It looked great, 
 the cars handled well, there was a reasonable challenge and you felt compelled to play on to buy 
 other cars etc. There was also a sense of achievement when you obtained the gamescore goodies. 
 So naturally I was really hopefully that PG4 would take a major leap forward for the racing genre 
 and offer a AAA racing title. Oh dear my mistake!
  
  There have been to many good racers released, and recently too with the likes of Forza, Dirt and 
 Sega rally. PG4 just left me cold. The races are dull and offer very little new content over PGR3. 
 If anything I'd say that PG4 feels more like PGR3.5!? Graphically too the game hasn't moved forward 
 much. Overall PGR4 just feels like a cash in on the success of PGR3 and just smacks of lazy production 
 and safe game making. When they do offer something new, the use of bikes, you wont want to use 
 them as they're horrible to manage and actually make you feel motion sick! If I had to make a choice 
 between 3 and 4 I'd stick with 3 all day long. Pick up 3 at a budget price and avoid this needless, 
 greedy cash in. Alternatively go for Dirt, Motorstorm or Sega Rally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irhoades
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one two three four five six seven eight nine ten 
 one two three four five six seven eight nine ten one hundred 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smylexx
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Many of my friends are huge PGR3 fans and, it seems that for them, this years incarnation of the 
 game is not quite what they expected.
  
  Perhaps this isn't the sim-styled racer that they wanted. Maybe the realism and handling isn't 
 quite as 'pure' as in previous versions but, to be honest, i'm finding this game to be a whole 
 heap of fun!
  
  Although there's a time and a place for serious petrolhead tinkering; adjusting everything from 
 the weight ratios to the tread of the tyres, this game forgoes all that and pretty much just expects 
 you to enjoy yourself.
  
  The racing itself feels much closer to the handling in games such as GTA and the Driver series 
 - lots of soft suspension and smoking handbrake turns but for fans of either of those two game 
 franchises, you'll probably feel right at home.
  
  Those wanting a more serious ladder progression based on getting the optimun from their garage 
 of cars may find that Forza is the game to stick with but for anyone who doesnt want to waste an 
 entire hour adjusting slide bars, this is a great game with a whole lot of variation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  PGR 4 is just awesome without further comments. it has great graphics, addictive gameplay and great 
 sound design and more.
  
  The game has some of the greatest graphics ever created in a Racing game and only games like Forza 
 or Dirt may compete with it. the weather effects are just mind blowing and being able to start 
 a race in sunset and finish it by midnight is sth I never saw in a racing game before, also the 
 rain and snow are done with excellence to fit reality and give an authentic sense of speed. The 
 game also holds well when it comes to how the cars handle and far from being a copy of Forza, the 
 game simplifies the task of driving by mixing both simulation and arcade. also the new addition 
 of motos is one of the greatest additions and probably one of the new innovation that would set 
 PGR4 apart from other racing games. the motos are also easy to handle and between each moto or 
 car you can feel the difference which makes the game even more fun. there are no tweaking or tuning 
 up cars here and the vehicle you have chosen won't change in terms of speed or anything after tow 
 or three races. however, you can earn Kudos and get fancy cars and speedy motos as you progress.
 
  
  also PGR has a great sound system and you have vehicles that feel and sound differently and some 
 very sweet music tracks that fit into the racing world of PGR quite perfectly.
  
  I say get this game if you are a racing fan, and even if you are not (like in my case) You still 
 wanna get this game because it is one of the greatest racing games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snozzeltoff
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  I got the game straight away on release, I hadnt played the demo but keeping a close eye on the 
 games progress I knew I had to get it.
  I began straight away on the Gotham Career; to be honest I wasnt too impressed at this point. 
 I think this was due to the slight tweak in the games handling and physics, playing it I feel that 
 theyve gone more towards the simulation side of things rather than arcade, I could be wrong but 
 it felt that way to me. Though it certainly plays really well. As a hardcore racer I always use 
 the inside cockpit view and manual transmission, its the only way to race. Though if like me you 
 were looking forward to using the bikes and wanted to use these cockpit views it will certainly 
 take a fair few races to get used to. The bikes work quite well, the developers have spent some 
 time tweaking the handling and speeds with the bikes and cars so that they work off each other 
 and are still even. As a biker you can take a few bumps and knocks, the harder the knock the more 
 likely youll fall off, though this is a disadvantage, the re-spawn time is almost immediate and 
 you dont lose too much time. Also being a bike the acceleration is incredible and can beat almost 
 any car off the line easily, the main limitation is the bikes dont tend to have as much top speed 
 as the cars. The weather, now this was the big thing about Gotham 4, theyve had wet tracks and 
 similar before but now theyve taken it to the next level. This can first be really appreciated 
 in proper thunder storm or snowing races, cockpit views also, the windscreen wipers are moving, 
 the windscreen smears with water and snow and it builds up at the edges, the cars glisten differently 
 with wet body work, and it just makes a more involving experience to race in. Also in these conditions 
 you get large puddles and thicker patches of snow, the large puddles can cause you to aqua plane 
 and lose spend and traction along with thick snow offering similar affects. The bikes in these 
 conditions still fair pretty well compared to what you might think, the only thing is learning 
 different skill altogether of riding a bike. If youre really into racing games then you really 
 have to get this game, its not as serious as forza but it certainly a lot more fun, drifting is 
 actually possible as in forza it simply doesnt work.
  Theres plenty of old tracks from PGR 3 and plenty of new tracks to learn from other cities such 
 as St. Petersburg. The big attraction that may cause you to upgrade from PGR 3 to PGR 4 is weather 
 and bikes, if you want these then buy it. For me I wanted to ride the nurburgring on a bike, wind 
 rain and snow too, its fantastic.
  Oh and another point is that it seems to promote competition between each country, this makes for 
 good racing, when you create your racer you select your country of origin and in a race your national 
 flag will be on your car door, on the back of your leathers, next to your gamer tag, its just another 
 small touch that increases competition.
  All in all a fantastic game, if you love the PGR series then definitely go for it, the game really 
 comes into its element online as the previous versions, though personally I dont think itll top 
 PGR 2 online, it worked so well.
  Anyway hope this helped explained a few things and yeah, enjoys the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfmann
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  This game, to put it short ROCKS like nothing lse. Initially the handling rather wobbly even thou 
 I have had all the previous games in the serie I must have forgot the arcade like steering, but 
 now I got the grip spot on and it is so much fun crankin` the ferrari FXX.. It blew Forza out of 
 the water so bad.. And the sounds of those roaring monsters gets me in the zone and I wanna race 
 all night;) BUY it if you like speed . ain`t gonna get much better than this I think.. This is 
 just what I expect from the new generation of consoles .Man what a game it`s def the best I`ve 
 ever played 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraindeadRacr
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  'm a racer-fan to the core. Along with action, it's my favorite genre. So, basicly I know what 
 I'm yammering about.
  
  PGR4. The highly anticipated game by Bizzare and MSG. Will that hype turn into something good? 
 Perhaps. A short sum-up by this amateur overly-honest reviewer.
  
  - Graphical: Top effin' notch. No questions asked. Cars are more detailed than ever.
  - Gameplay 
 wise: Deep. Alot deeper than Forza 2. But, as that game was as shallow as an empty glass of coke, 
 this still has a bit of lacking options.
  - Sound: A sh*tload of music. All genres are in. Cars sound awesome, and the bikes are extremely 
 awesome when it comes to sound.
  - Sequel-wise: Improved. But missing alot from other games and it's history.
  - Value: Deep.
 
  
  So, I'm planning on doing a somewhat deep review. And I will bash ALOT of things. So, if you're 
 a fanboy, I will dare you to say I am a pr*ck. I will only enjoy it. Either way, PGR4 is a great 
 game overall. If you're into car collecting. That is. PGR4 has the best graphics out of any vehicle 
 game. Period.
  
  Cars look great from outside, and also inside. Indepth, and everything works like it should on 
 the dashboard. The bikes have the same, just plain terrific. The driver animations look pretty 
 damn sweet, tough they are a bit choppy and laggy every now and then. Mechanical wise, framerate 
 hasn't dropped on me once in these past two days. The weather effects have alot of effect on the 
 handling. Also, the vehicle physics like suspension act pretty realistic and the bike physics like 
 weight shift and such are damn well made
  
  Graphic-wise, this game has peaked. But, in games of this era, graphics tend to eat gameplay. The 
 better graphics, the less gameplay value. In PGR4's case, it's suprising how much has been spared 
 from that evil curse. Still, I've been greatly dissapointed of the number of cars.
  
  Like, they've wasted alot of licencing money on buying the '81 Pontiac Firebird. That's one of 
 the worst editions of that car. Also, there's a '69 GT500, where's the '07? Replaced with a '66 
 Ford Mustang. They took an GMC Syclone, overall a pretty ugly truck. They took several bad BMW's 
 instead of the good ones. The DeLorean DMC has no power whatsoever, and is barely used throughout 
 the game. The game misses out on alot of great cars and bikes. For instance the 2002 Chevy Corvette. 
 2004 Ford Mustang. Ducati 999R. 1972 Chevy Corvette. 2005 Chrysler 300C. 2005 Chrysler ME4/12. 
 Alot of the great cars have been wasted on somewhat sloppy ones. There's almost no German cars. 
 The french have been abandoned and the US vehicles pretty much suck. The worst thing about it is 
 only one pick up truck. Finally, I thought. A game where trucks make an apearance. Sadly, only 
 the Syclone was given an chance.
  
  I've been forced to use many of the cars I pretty much don't like. I do love the Buick GNX, but 
 I am ordered to use a differentclas. sed car at almost any time. In the end, the game completely 
 forgets about the less-powerfull cars.
  
  So, qua vehicles, the game is pretty downright sad. About tracks, simply said: Best ever made. 
 The weather effects are awesome. And with every different effect, the whole theme has changed. 
 Buildings become white, when snowing. Roads become tracked and slippery with snow. Pools of ice 
 appear before difficult apex's. The windscreenwhipers turn on, and rain starts to effect the cars 
 look. Slides of water flow from front to back. Graphic wise, it looks amazing.
  
  With snow, your car slowly turns white.
  
  Sound wise, it's simply said awesome. Everything 
 sounds awesome. The music list is just too large to recall, and bikes sound better than they do 
 in real life. I'm not going indept with sounds, cause if they aren't bad. They are good. 'Nuff 
 said.
  
  Onto the value. It's pretty deep. With Forza 2, I had to rely on the achievements to keep me motivated 
 enough to play. PGR4 isn't that shallow at all, it's great fun. Online it's even better. Only thing 
 bothering me greatly is the lack of good cars. Also, the achievements are INCREDIBLY easy to earn. 
 It took me only 1,5 days to get 600+ gamerscore. So, in the end, the achievements seem shallow, 
 but the game sure as hell ain't.
  
  The kudo system brings in some more value. The kudos you earn while racing, you use them to buy 
 new car packs, track packs, cheats etc. Also, a 1 million kudos gamerpicture. Which costs, 1 million 
 kudos. Showing the world that you're hooked.
  
  PGR isn't a Forza game, being simulation-realistic. it's an arcade racer to the core, and it's 
 doing damn well at that. And I'm being very honest when I say, this is the best game of the year. 
 The best racer game, that is.
  
  Rental, buy. I don't care. It's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaTiNuM24k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Well I have following the PGR series for a long time now, ever since number 2 first came out and 
 I got totally hooked to that game, and burned that disc up, hell thats where pgr 3 got cat and 
 mouse from was users on number 2, we used to play it all the time, it was fun. Bought number 3 
 and was like damn, this one is really good and thought it couldn't get much better, and now I see 
 they have brought number 4 I was going, o **** gotta get it lol. So far I have gone through one 
 season of career and am throughly impressed, there are still so many events that have not been 
 done yet, it'll be awhile before i ever do the same tracks and use the same cars twice at the rate 
 this game is going. With the addition of crotch rockets and other badass bikes I couldn't be more 
 happy, 2 wheels vs 4, talk about the ultimate challenge. I just hope when i got to multi player 
 they don't take advantage of being able to shove bikers off. Thats just not fun, make it even lol. 
 Well as you can tell I have not yet had the chance to hit up the multiplayer, simply because the 
 servers at my college are so fragile, your lucky to stay connected for 30 mins so I would just 
 be slowing everything down. Yeah I haven't even gotten to rock out on halo 3 yet either, it sucks, 
 but I'll be more then ready as much as i am now. But so far PGR 4 rocks on all my charts and I 
 hope they continue this series for a long time, 2 made they come out and kick ass and these last 
 2 have just taken it to a whole new level, keep it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Now, PGR3 came out almost 2 years ago has a launch title for the 360 and was very successful entry 
 in the series, great cars, carrer mode was great, but the track's seemed a little to easy, even 
 on hard players could glide through the track with a powerful car and win, but now thing's have 
 changed, PGR4 has changed a few things.
  They have a new Kudos system which is more better than the previous system, they have a new way 
 to buy cars, now you cant buy them seperate, they come in packages ie: Aston Martin, British Cars, 
 Italian cars and so on....
  They have also re-done the track's, when you start off, doesnt matter what car you use it will 
 take a little precise tining to get into 1st posistion, with the AI being a lot better since the 
 previous games, they now try to knock you off or drift behind you, more realistic than having them 
 just overtaking you.
  There are a lot of new track's, Snow, Rain, Ice, Fog you name it you'll start a race when it is 
 sunny, and the weather may change to drizzle, to pouring rain.
  Another new thing is the carrer mode, now you have to race in a year calender picking events and 
 going up in the month's, if you fail a race, you can either restart it or wait tillit comes around 
 again.
  all in all, a brilliant racing game, that kick's Forza 2 out of the ring.
  Graphic's: 9
  Gameplay:10
  Sound: 9
  Re-playability: 10
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic i have been waiting for it for such a long time now and its finally here. 
 Im a huge racing car type gamer and i love this game it is absoutley brilliant to be fair
  The graphics are brilliant
  I love the choice of cars some real old school cars
  the bike bikes 
 are brilliant
  wicked weather effects and brilliant game modes
  That sums it up really i do feel gamespots score is a bit under to be fair their a few people who 
 have given this a bad review all i can say is they are people who to be honest just suck at racing 
 gamers any true gamer will love this game
  A MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyboarder20
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  The PGR series is in my opinion, offers the best racing games ever. Better than GT, Forza, NFS, 
 Burnout and all the rest. I really like PG4. I score it at 10. Car handling is slightly better 
 than before, but i prefered the graphics of PGR3. Nevertheless, this game is really beautiful. 
 For me the best PGR is 4 (10) , then 3 (9.8) , then 2 (9.5) and 1 (9.0) . Like i said, i like them 
 all. By the way people who say: I`ve been there, done that and then score the game low for it, 
 really get on my nerves. The reason we keep buying PGRs is because we have been there and did that. 
 We know what we are going to get even before we play the new release. What we get is the best looking, 
 fun. immersive racer on any console. I hope they never change the formula of PGR. It is the best. 
 I can never get bored with PGR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Yes, we all saw it coming, some type of game which really, really wants to beat its predessor as 
 well as every other racing game on the market. Sure enough, it is not as explosive as Stuntman 
 Ignition, and isn't smashed as well as Colin Mcrae Dirt, but to be honest, it really does not need 
 to be. It, by itself, has too much fun for any of that stuff to block it out. The motorbikes are 
 probably one of the best additions to the game, and seriously they rule. When hoping a wheelie, 
 which is a stunt-for-kudos, you can go further and press B to do another stunt-for-kudos at the 
 same time as doing a wheelie. The Kudos system has been redone, and with style. You earn style 
 points for completing a string of stunts, and performing them 4 seconds or less apart from each 
 other, after 4 seconds, the points turn into Kudos, and i personally think this give you more ideas 
 to perform simple, but delicate stunts. Online muliplayer has been stripped a little, but now has 
 better online connections, and player modes than ever before, so it doesn't matter. Career mode 
 is alright, not really liking the calender system, but then again what do real racers, on real 
 circuits with real vehicles do but wait? If you have &pound;40 for GTA IV, and you can get some 
 by 7th March 2007, you might as well spend it now on PGR 4, because, this game will last you until 
 GTA IV, if not longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_59
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Just started playing today and just getting used to set up etc., but I must admit I liking what 
 I have seen so far is good that motorbikes have been included in the game as there are not many 
 motorbike games about. I tried Motogp 06 but found it to fiddly to set up the way I want it. I 
 am looking forward to seeing the new locations and the new vehicles. I am sure as the further I 
 go into the game the harder it will get as the more levels I pass, just like PGR3 I hope to get 
 to the end with out being disapointed. I am sure I will not. Haven't tried multiplayer but I don't 
 normaly play on line so that side for me is not that important 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitrous_boy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing series has always been about racing in style. It has also been known for 
 'kudos' and its impressive visuals. Now that PGR4 has come out, is it still like the game is meant 
 to be?
  
  PGR4 is based alot on PGR3 with alot of new features. tthe weather effects do have an effect and 
 snow can be quite fun to drive in. PGR4 may not have the dramatic lighting from its predecessor, 
 but the graphics are still one of the best ones for racing games. The soundtrack has a wide range 
 of songs, some of which are rock, hip hop or even classical. Even better, there is now a bigger 
 variety of cars after PGR3's supercar only list. They have pickups, saloons and even motorbikes!
 
  
  PGR4 isn't an all positive game. this game does have a few drawbacks. When selecting difficulty, 
 you really have to know what you want. selecting Easy is a piece of cake. normal is a touch too 
 challenging. You'll either find yourself winning without really trying, or getting beaten. Motorbikes 
 are good, but they just seem a bit out of place for this kind of racing.
  
  PGR4 is a superb game. other than the difficulty, it is hard to find cons about the game. It is 
 a good all-rounder and it still has what the Gotham Racing series is all about: speed, style, and 
 having fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmnestyErr
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  ... if I were an arcade racing kind of fan.
  
  The game is really great on presentation but that's about as much as I can stomach for an arcade 
 racer.
  
  If you're fine just picking up and playing the game that's fine, the game will allow you to do 
 that, there aren't any complicated nuances you need to learn and there aren't any particular reasons 
 to pan the game completely.
  
  I knew very full well what I was going to get with PGR 4 and more or less there isn't anything 
 that particularly shines. It does exactly what an ARCADE racer is supposed to do and that's to 
 hit the ground running maximizing its visual presentation to its fullest. A thing of complaint 
 is the horrid loading times, but that's a given, the game is streamed directly off the DVD so more 
 or less its a technical problem, but with a game such as this you'd expect it to be...'Faster' 
 as opposed to FORZA 2 and a title like GT5 where all the physics and configurations of a vehicle 
 come into play, requiring an enormous amount of time to learn the checks and balances of a vehicle.
 
  
  Which brings up another particular red flag: all the vehicles more or less feel like everything 
 else with the only exception being the motorcycles. With indications of acceleration, speed, grip, 
 ect in the values of 1-10 represented by red ticks in a scale, its not hard to figure out what 
 car does what nor do you really need to know what car does what... they all drive the same. This 
 definately defeats the idea of experimentation and generally, the rule of thumb is: if you cant 
 stay in first with X car for X amount of games why should you switch vehicles? Once you're in front 
 the AI can never keep up and with any presented effort from them a good block from the sides or 
 knock into the wall never hurt; it also never hurt to slam the brakes and let them rear-end you... I 
 call it Turbo-Boost. (... and yes, I love Knight Rider...)
  
  The biggest bragging I've heard from the forums is PGRs ability to incorporate weather and Motorcycles 
 into the game but even for an ARCADE racer it seems a bit too unfair... for the AI at least. Soon 
 leaving the Lancia Delta behind I soon found that the Honda... something-something, easily decimated 
 the playing field and it only got easier as your progressed. Initially the motorcycles were fickle 
 beasts when turning but once you nailed that down everything became too easy.
  
  The weather system... well, more or less isn't all that much to brag about. Ever played GT3? Well, 
 all some rain/ sleet/ ect and you've got the same thing minus the simulation of GT3. It wasn't 
 all that impressive but its a definitely refreshing to experience those stages under a new 'light'. 
 I mentioned earlier the premise of the game and if you haven't caught on by now...*sigh*... how 
 did you ever get this far in the internets?
  
  PGR4 offers many game types, for example: beat this many checkpoints within a certain time limit, 
 stay out of last place when the time resets, by pass X amount of cars, and so forth; which are 
 generally fun to play in the Gotham Career. The game definately delivers a great amount of arcade 
 fun and if that's all you're looking for then you'll be content with this ARCADE racer.
  
  As for me... I enjoy racing simulations and occasionally the arcade racer, PGR4 isn't anything to 
 brag about but it is worth a try renting, on that note... I wouldn't recommend it to any of my friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I didn't originally like this game but after having revisited it I must say it is outstanding. 
 I do have a few complaints, like a difficultly system that has less options than before and a somewhat 
 confusing UI but overall the experience it offers is better than previous titles.
  
  Motorcycles are cumbersome and take much getting used to. Although cars are simulated more faithfully, 
 as they feel like they have real weight, bikes just flit around like they have no weight at all, 
 which makes them much harder to handle. They can be fun but it's harder to get consistent results 
 with them unless you take the time to master how they handle.
  
  Weather is interesting and gorgeous and can affect car handling significantly. It's a somewhat 
 subtle new feature, though, and one you just sort of take for granted. Virtual cockpits are a somewhat 
 mixed bag as some make it very hard to see out of the cars, although I would love to see this same 
 feature make it into the Forza series.
  
  All in all PGR4 is outstanding and highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rezzy_Rod
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Just one more! This is what youll be saying to yourself at midnight once you indulge in PGR4. 
 The first race type I tried was single player arcade mode. I wanted to try identical tracks with 
 bikes and cars to feel the difference. The balance between bike and car make for an exciting race 
 no matter which vehicle you choose. Bikes corner much better and cars have a higher top speed. 
 I must have completed 3 arcade series before setting the controller down.
  At the start of my single player career the first thing I noticed was how different the PGR4 format 
 is, in comparison to its predecessor. I like that you have the ability to choose between championships 
 based on career points available. Difficulties span from easy to hard, and a noticeable difference 
 between them, without sacrificing achievements. Everybody loves having choices, and Im no different. 
 The replay ability is endless with career years starting over, and your career points accumulating. 
 Im into my second career year and still havent raced the same championship twice. I believe you 
 could race 4-5 years without re-racing an event, except for majors. I took me about 4 hours to 
 finish a year in career mode. PGR4 also has a few new cities to race, and fresh tracks keep me 
 satisfied.
  The visuals of PGR4 are bar none the best in my opinion. You know the graphics are stunning by 
 bizarre when competitors are hijacking PGR screen shots to promote their titles. I havent played 
 online yet, and I must apologize for that. Sorry! I just feel this game has been overlooked by 
 the hype of other titles, so I wanted to do anything I could to get the word out about this game. 
 I would say this game is a definite purchase for any virtual racer. If you enjoy this game like 
 I do, look me up online; Im always up for just one more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drejr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Cars racing against motorcycles is not a viable concept in any driving game and it undermines the 
 playability, especially when competing in the career mode. Although, the rendered interior/instrument 
 panel views and weather effects do add a nice dose of realism to the game. Overall, the game seems 
 to lack the polish of Forza Motorsport 2, with a more forgiving physics model and somewhat quirky 
 menus and controls. Its obvious the game tries to appeal to both hard core simulation fans and 
 casual arcade racing fans by meeting somewhere in the middle, but this may deem frustrating to 
 both camps in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yandor
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. I really enjoy Forza 2. And I think DiRT is still the best (single player) 
 racer available, but my racing heart has always belonged to PGR. I was disappointed in PGR 3. It 
 spent too much energy on high-performance cars. If it didn't go 170 MPH, then it wasn't in the 
 game, which was too bad because there were great tracks and excellent graphics. But it wasn't fun. 
 It's great to tool around at top speed, but after the sheer variety in PGR 2, it was like getting 
 only half a game.
  PGR 4 fixes all that and adds even more, most notably, motorcycles. I was skeptical when I saw 
 that bikes were going to be featured, but after playing the game, they fit in perfectly. Control 
 for both cars and bikes are intuitive and dead on.
  The real selling point for PGR 4 is the weather effects. Everything is dripping with atmosphere, 
 including the menus. And why not? The developers have done a superb job with rain, fog, lightning, 
 and snow. The tracks feel wet and the cars and bikes respond. The fact that the effects are random 
 is only a plus. You have to see this to appreciate it. The cars themselves seem a little unpolished, 
 though the bikes and riders are fantastic and very lifelike (The taunts and tricks are almost worth 
 the price!) The lighting and shadow effects are top-notch, and the cities and tracks are gorgeous. 
 Sound is also sublime. Overall, this game is the best in the series. The single player is packed 
 with gameplay. Multiplayer is silky smooth and the addition of PGR on demand is a nice touch. There 
 is plenty here to keep a racing fan happy. It may lack the tuning depth of Forza 2 and the jaw-dropping 
 graphics of DiRT, but it stands on its own with great innovations, tons of variety, and just plan 
 hours of fun. This is a must for your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarrocco
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I played PGR4 for about 3-4 hours and within that time had had found myself deeply inlove so inlove 
 that i was almost late for work. comparing this game to PGR3. There has been some outstanding changes 
 like how the achievment points for one are easier to get, also I really liked how i found the game 
 play just perfect for my specifications. The graphics were also i new high for alot of racing games 
 I don't think there's one game out there or coming out soon to beat out there graphics for awhile, 
 this is a must by games for any kind of player out there, don't be scared to buy it, it's a really 
 good investment of you're time.... NO JOKE! I hope you all read my review and mabe buy this game, 
 it's up for you to decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xper360
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  My first real experience with the PGR series, and I must i really, really love the style of this 
 game. The graphics and they why they're presented are slick and stylish, and that's what this game 
 is all about. The style and the feeling is just so cool, but still authentic enough to make you 
 feel even cooler when you pull of a perfect curve, or rack up over 1000 kudos in one combination. 
 It's not Burnout, and it's not Forza. It's the perfect blend. And I love that blend.
  
  You're first impression of a PGR game is gonna be weird, because you don't know what it is. Is 
 it a sim? Shouldn't it be like Burnout or NFS if it's not? When you do, however, figure the game 
 out and start learning the kudos system and how to take your car, or bike, down the track just 
 the right way you will be having a blast.
  
  Much of what makes it work, for me, is the style of it. The graphics, the music, the cars, the 
 bikes, the cities, the weather and everything just creates the coolest f*ing racing game ever. 
 Racing in the rain, at night, in Shanghai or Tokyo, with the music on, on two or four wheels, is 
 done so perfectly that you forget your sitting in your chair at home staring at a screen.
  
  The weather effects, like you all know, are not just graphical enhancements, but actually affect 
 the surface and the way your viechle behaves. Its the biggest and the best feature Bizarre Creations 
 has brought to the series, and racing games in general.
  
  The game is not perfect. The balance between bikes and cars just doesn't work, its cool, but it's 
 not as exciting as in theory. There's no customization whatsoever, if not for the paint-job, and 
 the game would benefit from some kind of custom option. But the game is not constructed around 
 such parameters.
  
  It's not the perfect racing-sim or arcade, but it's the perfect blend. That's why it will always 
 be kind of an underdog, a racer for the underground . It will not sit in every gamers shelve, but 
 for those of us who have it there, it shines like a diamond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jroony96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  What else can you say about PGR4. With a good list of vehicles and the new motorcycles, this has 
 to be the best game of the series. Great graphics and the new weather system is a nice touch. Great 
 online play! Overall it is a great arcade/sim racer that I think has been looked over due to Halo 
 3 being released. If you are a fan of racing games and are looking for a great game, I would recommend 
 this and Forza 2. Both exellent games. I don't have much else to say, so if you are reading this 
 end part it is due to the fact that it requires me to type 100 words or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gen_Warbuff
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  I am not exactly sure what I was expecting when I picked this game up last night. I am usually 
 not much of a race game fan put two years ago when PGR3 came out I gave it a try and really enjoyed 
 it, so I figured I would give this one a try as well.
  
  I don't know why, but right off the bat this game just felt different then PGR3. Maybe it's the 
 night time races, or the weather effects... I don't really know. The graphics (to me) seem not 
 as sharp as they were. Granted, the addition of weather is VERY COOL. Difficulity : Again, it seems 
 different then it was. It could be just me being a little rusty, but the early levels just seem 
 harder then they should be, I was having a hard time just finishing 3rd while in races against 
 the AI on normal level.
  
  Audio : This might be the only thing that does not feel different, it's great just like it was 
 in PGR3. The sounds of the different cars/bikes really bring you into the game.
  
  Graphics : Still good, but just seem a little on the dull side. The game runs at a very nice FPS 
 (not sure what it is) and I have not noticed any stutter or slowdown. The inside car view is still 
 AMAZING and is what I use about 80% of the time, it just makes it feel like you are there.
  
  Online: Have not tried that yet, so comment
  
  Over all this is a good arcade style racer. 
 Lots of cars and lots of different tracks and test to complete. I say pick it up, it should give 
 many hours of gaming enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PabloExobar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Unlike PGR3, this game is not only about flashy graphics and high speed. PGR4 goes back to the 
 roots and delivers the most satisfying and most fun driving experience you can put your hands on.
 
  
  Whereas PGR3 failed, PGR4 succeeds. The career mode is not dull at all, it keeps you entertained 
 by throwing - and this time REALLY - diverse challenges at you with a MUCH better AI (much more 
 competitive, also!) more cars (not only exotics, but street cars too, and let's face it. It get's 
 really dull racing at 200mph all the time) Also, the game has motorcycles which I thought at first 
 will be a failure, but now... I think otherwise. Riding one is like playing a whole new game in 
 a good sense.
  
  But what's the biggest improvement in gameplay is the introduction of the weather effects. I don't 
 understand why weather effects have been dumped for years. In the 90's it was almost a standard 
 feature, but lately, the developers totally dropped it.
  
  Luckily, Bizarre didn't forget it this time, and oh boy... it's awesome. Rain, snow, light rain, 
 wet conditions, fog, you name it. It's all here. And not only does it look visually gorgeus, but 
 it really DOES effect your car's handling. In fact, let's say, it's snowing... and snow will basically 
 change the look of the whole track. Everything will be white, icy. And it'll be a real drift fest.
 
  
  Rain? Small ponds all over the road, and if you're not careful, you'll be aquaplanning all around 
 the track.
  
  Plus, all the weather effects do stay on the windshield, so that's yet another reason to use the 
 dashboard view which is so god damn great (even better than in the previous game!) that even if 
 they had ONLY the dashboard view, i'd still give the game the same score.
  
  What the game offers when it comes to handling is awesome. It blends arcade and sim like no other 
 game. PGR3's controls were a disappointment after PGR2, but 4 is more like 2. In PGR3, cars felt 
 weightless, and they were really easy to maniouver even at high speeds. In PGR4, you must pay more 
 attention to what you're doing, it's just much more sophisticated overall.
  
  Graphically, as I said, the weather effects are 100%, but also, the cars, the tracks, and basically 
 everything has been polished. Although it's still screaming PGR3, the shimmering issue have been 
 90% resolved, and there aren't as many jaggies as in the 3rd installment. Also, the enviorments 
 have been REALLY improved. The sounds got even better ,although it's still not Forza-level, but 
 as for a sim/arcade mix, it's more than enough. The game has even better online capabilities than 
 the 3rd one... is that even possible? Evidently, yes.
  
  While you still can't customize your car, you can customize your driver (clothes, helmets) and you 
 can apply custom paintjobs on your cars, which is a cool touch.
  
  All that being said, this game is really awesome, and one of the best if not THE best racing games 
 out there. It draws the finest line EVER between sim and arcade. It's much more polished than PGR3, 
 and is truly the best PGR in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  If you liked PGR2 and appreciated the amazing course layouts in that game, then PGR4 is going to 
 put a huge smile on your face. Even without the amazing weather effects, the beautiful cities, 
 fast cars, and excellently designed tracks are enough to make any race fan a really happy person.
 
  
  But once you add the pouring rain or the falling snow to a track like the 'ring, then you have 
 what I consider gaming bliss.
  
  PGR4 has fixed the jaggies, added more cities and better track layouts with more narrows and better 
 turns, and used the weather to create really exciting and sometimes challenging moments that other 
 raceing games don't come close to creating.
  
  Also, if you don't have the Microsoft wireless forcefeedback wheel, you should. It works amazingly 
 well with this game and really adds to the experience, especially when you play in cockpit camera 
 w/ the surround sound turned way up. It's an insanely immersive experience that has been putting 
 a huge smile on my face all day.
  
  Bottom line, PGR4 is the true sequal to PGR2 and should make all the fans of the series pretty 
 happy. The bikes are a little overpowered, but it just adds a little more challenge for us car 
 loyalists.
  
  More than anything though, PGR blends sim like challenge with arcade like speed and fun for what 
 I find to be the single most fun racing experience anyone can find on any console. It's not hardcore 
 sim enough for some of the Forza loyalists, but for those looking for eyecandy and really unique 
 tracks, this game is a must have in every respect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frost451
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  The addition of the weather is great, 1080P is also better as the game looks sharper then PGR3. 
 The lighting and shadows are sweet, car control is great for an arcade game. Not to much and not 
 to little, its not GTR2 but its also not need for speed or jucied. Great cars and bikes to if thats 
 your thing. EA please take some notes from Bizarre. Good racing games are so few and far between 
 now. There has not been a good need for speed since HP2 and juced is just more Fast and Fornication 
 fart can import crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  First of all it's alot different from PGR3. It does have bikes in the game and amazing controls. 
 Graphics are improved from PGR3 and again the main part about the game is drifting! It's great 
 how bikes and cars can race together but there is always someone online that will take you out 
 when you're using a bike. Also the game has weathers added to it unlike PGR3. It has fog, snow, 
 rain, sun. There was added a new feature to the game you get the kudos when you drift and then 
 with them you buy and unlock stuff mostly cars. Abother feature is when you get on the road where 
 it's icy and snowy it's all hard to handle a car but pretty fun! Lot's of cars in the game and 
 just overall it's a great drifting game. So if you enjoyed PGR3 or just like drifting game i recommend 
 you this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtaboy69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  PGR always gets better than the previous installment but never strays too far off the formula. 
 The changes are always for the better. The music has gotten better but definately not superb by 
 any means. The graphics look alot more cleaned up and sharp, theres a lot less jaggies and nasty 
 textures than previous installments. The control has only slightly changed, shift up is now Y instead 
 of B. The cars list has changed of course but the cars are pretty good but dont expext every car 
 ever manufactured like Forza 2 or Gran Turismo. I like PGR4 because its got that somewhat realistic 
 style of driving with a little bit of unrealistic driving to make it fun. Gran Turismo is full 
 out realistic driving whereas Need For Speed is unrealistic. PGR4 sits right in the middle. Its 
 fun but not too fake or too real that its boring and crazy hard. Difficulty levels have been smoothed 
 out ranging from extremely kiddie easy to professional F1 racer impossible. Theres a difficulty 
 for everyone. If you have $60 and are looking for a good racing game with exotics and classics 
 then I really recommend this game or you can rent it if you are short on money. All in all its 
 worth checking this game out if you really like exotic cars or just want something fun to play 
 for a while. And this game is exceptionally longer than PGR3 on the normal difficulty level 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  If you've played Project Gotham Racing on the 360 before when the last game came out on launch 
 than you know exactly what you're getting for a racing game here. Kudos points are back and this 
 time you get to buy things with it instead of just being points you earn in the past for winning 
 races. Is been a long wait for the second PGR on the 360 but if finally here and I couldn't wait 
 to see the graphical improvement from the last one that was a masterpiece when it came out back 
 than in 2005.
  
  So let's talk about what's different about this PGR4 well we have motorcycles in this one which 
 we didn't have in the past. Another thing that was added to this year was the addition to weather 
 which plays a big part in the way you drive in the game. You will be driving in rain, snow, and 
 fog. So if you're use to driving a certain ways with some vehicles you will have to adjust the 
 way you drive in the game when the weather starts to change. Sometimes the weather will change 
 during the races. I've noticed the difficulty has gone up a little from the normal level. In the 
 last series of PGR you had 3 levels which you were able to receive silver, gold, and bronze medals. 
 This year they have easy, normal, and hardcore. This time you change the level of difficulty from 
 the beginning and you can switch it back and forth as you go along and get better. If you're a 
 newcomer I suggest you start the game on easy and than if you feel that the game is a little too 
 forgiving crank it up to normal but I don't think you'll go higher than that unless you're really 
 good and can handle it on hardcore. The graphics in this game just got better from the last PGR3 
 the tracks look beautiful. I must say it nailed it on the car models and the tracks. Even thou 
 you don't have car damage like in Froza you can break a head light or two but that's about it. 
 The sound in the game is top notch just like the previous installments, so you won't be disappointed. 
 There's a lot to do in the game with Single Player mode. Here you'll have the choice to play on 
 arcade mode which is the 10 chapters you progress through in Gotham career mode. You also have 
 Gotham Career mode this is where you'll spend most of your time racing around the world. Time Attack 
 which is you against the time and Custom match where you get to choose the city, track, weather, 
 and other things you've unlocked in your career mode. You also have online multiplayer up to 8 
 other xbl members. You also have the PGR shop where you get to spend your kudos points you've earn 
 in career to purchase tracks, other game modes, and vehicles. Also the return of PGR on Demand 
 is back. If you're a fan of the series than you know exactly what to expect from Bizarre Creations 
 and their Project Gotham Racing Series this is definitely a buy if you're into racing games like 
 myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin449
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 4 (PGR4) is a successor of MSR for Dreamcast racing game, first in its series, 
 developed by Bizarre Creations and published by Microsoft for the Xbox gaming console. The first 
 title in the franchise, Project Gotham Racing, is an Xbox launch title that quickly became the 
 second best-selling game for the console after Halo.
  
  PGR 4 is a sequel of sorts to the Sega Dreamcast game Metropolis Street Racer, but the name was 
 changed because Sega held the rights to the original name.
  
  PGR 4 differs from most racing games in that winning a race does not necessarily mean the player 
 advances to the next round; instead advancement in PGR 4 requires both driving fast enough to meet 
 the challenge set, and scoring enough Kudos points to advance. Kudos points are gained through 
 the player's driving skills, such as power sliding around a corner at speed, or overtaking other 
 NPCs in the race.
  
  Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates has described Project Gotham as his favorite video game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
