-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Pure
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/pure/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Breathtaking environments.
 Trick system is straightforward and compelling.
 Good track variety.
 Excellent online play .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't offer much in the way of originality.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  2, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.6, 49 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 591 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Black Rock Studio
Genre: Racing
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pure doesn't blaze many new trails, but this off-road racer still delivers an intense, tricked-out 
 thrill ride. 

  All-terrain vehicles are something of a niche interest, but you don't need to care about them in 
 the least to enjoy Pure. All you need is an appreciation for breathtaking environments and intense 
 racing action. In Pure, Black Rock Studio has crafted an accessible, wildly tricked-out game that 
 may feel a bit familiar, but it pulls off its concept so well that you won't mind feeling like 
 you've danced with this lady before.  

           Pure's tracks take you through airplane graveyards, lush jungles, overgrown ruins, and 
 other gorgeous locations.      

  In fact, Pure has more in common with EA's SSX series of snowboarding games than it does with your 
 typical ATV racer. At the heart of Pure is a system that rewards you for pulling off spectacular 
 tricks with the ability to boost. Performing tricks is simple -- you just push a button and a direction 
 on the thumbstick as you soar through the air -- but the built-in risk-versus-reward aspect keeps 
 things interesting. Pulling off longer, more complex trick combinations nets you more boost, and 
 you can tweak your tricks with a shoulder button or simultaneously flip your ATV forward or backward 
 to dramatically increase the payoff. But if you don't finish the trick before you touch ground 
 again, you'll wipe out and lose boost, not to mention valuable seconds. And the game's presentation 
 makes it all very visceral. Not only do the tricks look totally insane, but the way the ground 
 flies up to meet you creates a real sense of danger. This makes successfully completing your trick 
 milliseconds before you land exhilarating, while wiping out will have you wincing in vicarious 
 pain as your rider goes tumbling across the rough terrain.  

  There are three event types on offer. Sprints are the most technical: These short races around 
 small, tight tracks provide scant opportunity for pulling tricks. The focus on maintaining your 
 speed and sticking to a smart racing line keep sprints fast-paced and fun. In freestyle events, 
 tricks are all that matter. You keep going until your rapidly draining gas tank is spent, linking 
 tricks to rack up multipliers and score big points. The tracks are decked out with ramps to provide 
 more opportunities for catching big air, and power-ups are liberally scattered around that refill 
 your gas tank, add a multiplier to your score, or instantly hook you up with the ability to perform 
 a special trick. (More on those in a bit.) Freestyle events are the weakest of the bunch because 
 the trick system -- while robust enough for the race modes -- isn't as compelling when you remove it 
 from that context and make it stand on its own.  

  Standard races are the most interesting events because they balance the finish-line focus of the 
 sprints with the need to pull tricks and earn boost. And, you'll need to make some important decisions 
 on the fly. As your boost meter builds up, you earn access to more complex trick types, which, 
 in turn, earn you more boost, so there's constantly a trade-off at work. Boosting is often necessary 
 to pull ahead of your opponents, but draining the boost bar costs you the ability to pull off the 
 more advanced tricks. It creates a surprisingly complex dilemma. There's added incentive to max 
 out your boost bar because doing so will give you access to a special trick. Special tricks are 
 the most outrageous in the game, involving physically impossible (but nonetheless awesome) stunts, 
 such as standing on the seat of an ATV and doing a backflip as it soars through the air. Pulling 
 off one of these tricks will refill your entire boost bar, but they take several seconds to complete, 
 so you'll need to catch some serious air. Landing one of these tricks at a critical point in a 
 race can make all the difference, so it's fitting that they're neither easy to earn nor to perform. 

  Pure's main mode is the World Tour. Here, you'll start off competing on ATVs with relatively weak, 
 D-class engines, and these early events can be a tad too easy, but the competition gradually heats 
 up as you rise through the ranks. The later stages, which find you racing faster models against 
 more aggressive opponents, are also consistently thrilling. You choose from one of six riders, 
 but there's no functional difference among them. It's all about the ATVs, and as you complete events, 
 you'll constantly unlock new parts for your ride, which you can put together, piece by piece, in 
 the game's garage. Armchair grease monkeys will appreciate the number of customization options 
 Pure offers, while others might find it almost silly -- many of the parts have no effect on performance, 
 and your opponents aren't going to take the time to admire your taste in radiator scoops or handle-bar 
 guards. Still, too many customization options certainly beats too few, and the game's autobuild 
 option, which lets you toss together a ride optimized for race or freestyle events just by holding 
 down a button, means you can avoid the business of ATV construction altogether if you'd like to 
 get right to racing.  

           The simple trick system adds a surprising amount of depth to the games racing action. 

  Aside from the World Tour, you can hop into any single event, though you'll need to unlock tracks 
 in World Tour before you can access them. And the online play, which supports up to 16 players 
 in an event, is outstanding. Even in races with 16 people on the track, the action stays fast and 
 smooth. Again, though, you'll need to unlock performance parts for your ATVs in the World Tour 
 mode to access them in online ATVs, which makes jumping right into online games a recipe for defeat. 

  Despite taking loads of inspiration from the SSX games, Pure capitalizes on the fact that it is, 
 in fact, an ATV game. Although the action here is far from realistic, the physics feel convincing -- your 
 ride will dig into the terrain as you slide through curves, and the dirt roads that make up many 
 of the tracks feel as rough under your wheels as they look. The tracks offer an excellent amount 
 of variety, both visually and structurally -- the hairpin turns through the airplane graveyard at 
 Ocotillo Wells in California provide a sharp contrast to the gentle curves that take you through 
 the lush coastal landscape of Kosa Phi Island in Thailand. And the tracks have alternate routes 
 you'll discover that can shave seconds off your time, which makes familiarizing yourself with them 
 rewarding. Still, the action isn't without its rough edges. It's not always clear where the track 
 ends, so you may find yourself going out of bounds and being penalized a few seconds of time when 
 you thought you were just taking a shortcut.  

  Pure's visuals are nothing short of breathtaking. Every detail, large and small, contributes to 
 bringing the environments to life, from the grass and flowers right underneath your wheels to the 
 roaring rivers you might see frighteningly far below. Your ride also realistically kicks up dirt, 
 splashes through puddles, and leaves tracks in its wake. (Nearly every level has helicopters hovering 
 overhead, and, of course, helicopters make anything more epic.) And the game creates a thrilling 
 sense of speed, without any noticeable drops in the frame rate, even when the screen is filled 
 with other riders. The game's sound is great as well. The raucous rock songs on the soundtrack 
 by such artists as Jeff Beck, Wolfmother, and The Futureheads seem to have been chosen with care 
 to create a cohesive backdrop for the action. The whine of the ATVs is authentic, and there's a 
 sickening sinking sound that makes the game's insane jumps that much more likely to induce vertigo. 
 The only problem with the game's sound is that the narrator tends to repeat basic tips ad nauseam, 
 but thankfully, you can shut him up at any time.  

           If you're afraid of heights, Pure may not be the game for you.      

  The PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 versions are almost indistinguishable from one another. The 360 version has achievements, 
 while the PS3 version lacks trophies; on the other hand, the larger shoulder buttons on the Dual 
 Shock make it ever-so-slightly more comfortable for tweaking tricks. Ultimately, if you know more 
 people playing one version or other online, that's the one you should choose. Pure isn't the most 
 original game out there, and it might have been nice to see it build on the trick system in SSX 
 instead of just copying it wholesale. But nonetheless, its focus on tricks, boosting, and larger-than-life 
 jumps over gorgeous environments pays off. This is an exciting racing game that seriously delivers 
 on its promise of high-speed, high-adrenaline action.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (39 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: red192837465
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  When I review games i judge on these catogories. Graphics, sound, campaign, multiplayer (if it has 
 none then it doesn't lose marks) , controls, gameplay and replay value.
  
  Review Start
  Pure is a new ATV game from Black Rock Studios. You play as one of a few drivers and compete in 
 three events, Race, Sprint, and Freestyle. Race is pretty straight forward, as is Sprint. The real 
 juggernaut here is my opinion is Freestyle. It lets you do all of the insane over the top tricks 
 that nobody in the world can hope to accomplish on a ATV.
  
  The goal here is to become the Pure champion. You can also play events over again and play online.
 
  
  Online plays basically the same way as the regular game, but it adds a new level of fun because 
 your oppenents are very smart. Not that Pure's AI is terrible but it is much more exciting online.
 
  
  Scores.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look quite good for what they are, though the enviroments never truly differ 
 from one another besides in small ways. 9/10
  
  Sound: A good soundtrack and annoucer that get marred by bad voice overs for most characters and 
 for the most part chessy dialogue such as "lets do this! and oh no you don't". 7.5/10
  
  Campaign: By this I mean the story and the story in Pure is bland. Yes it is a driving game but 
 even Burnout had an more intersting story behind. The biggest fault with this is the fact that 
 you are given back storys for each character, but they never evolve past I want to win. 6.5/10
 
  
  Multiplayer: An great thrill. It is extremely fun and the online leaderboards are quite good. While 
 it isn't an online juggernaut, it is certainly a blast. The tournanments are great as well but 
 where is split screen? 9/10
  
  Controls: Simple and fun. You gain boost by landing awesome tricks and driving is vey simple. The 
 controls feel tight. 8.5/10
  
  Replay Value: Pure is fun enough that you will play it for a decent amount of time. The Pure World 
 Tour is probably 5-15 hours depending on how you play it. 8/10
  
  
  Overall: + Awesome tricks are just face melting.
  + Lots of fun modes, freestyle is great.
 
  + Great Online
  - But only online
  - Why gives us these characters and not let them evolve? Character Creation please.
  ? Is there 
 a reason all of your dialogue feels straight out of Mickey Mouse's mouth?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin8se7en
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 12:45 am PT
Review:  I didn't expect much from Pure...
  It looked like another crappy ATV off-road fury type game...
  
  BUT
  
  It surprised me.
 
  It raised the bar for future off-road racing games.
  
  Dirt,
  Motorstorm,
  Mx vs ATV...
  blah blah blah....
  
  That's what those games are... blah!
  They are very 
 average, don't do anything great type games. But they don't suck either. They are the type of games 
 you rent or borrow from your friend.
  
  Pure sets it self apart from those with great customization, good graphics, HUGE jump/cliffs and 
 a smooth original driving style.
  
  It isn't just about going fast, turning and pressing A-B, A-A, RB-X... anymore...
  The pre-loading 
 style jumps makes you feel more like you are actually driving rather than flooring the throttle 
 and going in a circle because it makes you want to land better and straighter among other things. 
 They simply improved that aspect of the game compared to others.
  
  Like i said in the review deck... this game isn't GREAT but it is very good.
  
  I do think 
 this type of game has reached it's potential in Pure. There is only so much you can do with an 
 off-road racing game.
  
  If you are a fan of Dirt or Motorstorm (Ps3) ... trade it in for Pure... it's simply a better game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:47 am PT
Review:  This game is like motorstorm's little brother. Pure is all about canning bikes across full of mug 
 tracks until your brain drows on adrenaline. However the racing sim and the originality are missing.
 
  
  In pure it is not all about being the fastest. You need to pull off a big amount of tricks to fill 
 the ''Thril Meter'' which unlockes new staff. All you have to worry is about having enough time 
 to finish the move while still in air before crashing into a piece of rock. The big showpiece is 
 the style moment when you leap off a jump and time slows down and you pull one stupid signature 
 move as the ground drops away.
  
  Another worth mentioning point is that in pure depending on the race you will need to balance tricks 
 and boost differently and you'll have to master them to become the first one. That is something 
 that adds extra difficulty to the game.
  
  The troubles start when you realize that the tracks are repeated and that there is not a huge amount 
 of moves you can perform. You can win parts for your veehicle only if you are petrolhead but that 
 doesn't mean that new parts will make the same track seem more exciting.
  
  So pure is a game that surprises in the beggining but as you play it you start to get bored... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigguy85
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 10:18 am PT
Review:  Great graphics, great tricks, and awsome jumps..... but the gameplay and the absence of multiplayer, 
 made this game lack the biggest essentials.... I played the game for about 6 hours and within that 
 i was so sick of the gameplay and the handling of the quads that at 7 o'clock in the evening I 
 got up and took the game back to the store.... Like I said though the graphics, were absolutely 
 amazing! They were by far the best in any game, and the simplicity of the the trick set up was 
 fun and entertaining. But not even that could save the game.... I mean when was the last time you 
 "spun out" on a four wheeler? Sega? Super Nintendo? I mean come on how can you create a game this 
 good and not allow the player to control the vehicle.... That brings me to the other issue, no 
 mulitplayer. There is no online or 2 player options at all in this game..... All in all I am quite 
 disappointed... but i mean you dont have to listen to me about it try it yourself... If you want
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bateman77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the most under estimated game of the year.
  It's basically SSX on wheels. Sand instead of snow. Driving instead of skiing. You liked the SSX 
 series? Then go grab a copy on eBay without hesitation. The game has been already discounted and 
 you can easily find a copy for less than 30 bucks, a price that makes the game even more worth.
 
  The ATV offer more customization opportunities than SSX, which is great. Acrobatic moves are fun 
 and addictive.
  The in-game training system is just great and make reading the manual even more useless than usual 
 (who reads them?) .
  The only concern I have with this game is that you can't play in 2 with split-screen (multi player 
 is online only) so I cant kick my brother's ass :@
  I give it 8,5/10. It could have been 9/10 if it only offered split screen option.
  Now, let's 
 all wait for a Xbox360 version of SSX on tour. I miss it so much, damn! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEVANTY7
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  So for about 2 months i was getting super pumped to go out and buy Pure. It looked so sweet the 
 craziest jumps a bunch of different bike types and a lot of variety. Until i found out that the 
 stupid idiots that made the game didn't put a multiplayer option in the game! That means if i have 
 friends over we can't play the game together because there's not split screen option! It's a RACING 
 game Black Rock Studios i have never heard of a producer being so stupid that you wouldn't put 
 in a multiplayer option into a game people buy just so they can play it with their friends. So 
 i would like to say thanks to Black Rock Studios and Disney Interactive studios for destroying 
 what looked to be a great game. I would also like to thank them for wasting my time. So for anyone 
 who is looking into buying this game for their kids or just for some enjoyment.. don't bother your 
 kids won't be able to share the game with the friends and you can't play it with your friends. 
 Total waste of time even considering buying this game. I'm sorry if your only seeing this review 
 now and you already bought it for a christmas present. Now your probably wanting to take it back. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austinhammey
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game thats very fun. Realistic graphics and by that I mean like wow just wow looks like 
 its real top notch. Got an X BOX 360 this is a must have game. I could tell just by the commercial 
 that this is a must have game!
  Off road racing game that has a nice background and very good game play.
  So if you got some 
 money and want to get this game you are not wasting your money! You will think so to its a nice 
 game to play all the time! So if your asking me now then "Yes it is worth getting!"! Is it a game 
 that is always fun?
  You might get bored after a long time but may get back into it. You can have this for a long time 
 and get respected! Great  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corian_331
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  I played the Demo. I wanted the game but settled for renting. I knew this would be one of "THOSE" 
 games. A game that would consume your time from the minute you brought it home. I was right. From 
 the very start PURE is purely fantastic. Most likely my favorite appeal is creating you ATV from 
 scratch. Undoubtedly one of the deepest vehicle creation menus I have ever seen, PURE lets you 
 do it your way. The racing causes vertigo and is fast and furious. Most of the first four tiers 
 are rather easy to a racing afficionado, but afterwards become rather challenging even with the 
 souped up parts you can install. Sound effects are pretty cool and ragdoll is pretty funny after 
 crashes. I pretty sure though that I have played games like this in the past. But PURE distinguishes 
 itself by what it does right. It is a great X racer and sucessfully captures the aura and appeal 
 of X style races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imtubbs
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  this game can only be described as EPIC. Why? well because of the sheer hardcore, yet beautiful 
 and organic graphics. It can be described as EPIC also because of the perfect balance of hard and 
 easy, i mean, at times you fear your sheer speed is about to get you hurdled of the edge of a cliff 
 due to too sharp of a turn or something, but, once that gets your mind a pumping to the extreme, 
 you will make it right to the edge of that cliff, and speed off without problems, however, if you 
 do fall off that cliff, it comes with very little penalty, it'll get you back on track fast so 
 you don't have to wait while countless drivers speed by, the only REAL penalty is that it will 
 take a little bit off your boost bar, but that isn't really a problem considering the fact of how 
 fast you will be going, and it takes away so little, it won't make much of a difference at all. 
 The Online is very very fun, especially when you get good. i mean, the only not so great part is 
 that sometimes the whole speed of things kind of gets to you, and you DO go hurdling off of that 
 cliff, but hey, that really isn't the game's fault. There are so many ATV racing games that i can't 
 give it a 10 out of 10, though it does OUTSTANDINGLY stand out from the crowd with very little 
 disappointment for company's fairly new to games such as this. From your first race, with people 
 yelling insults at one another, speed that is felt through your entire body, and Jumps that make 
 you think you may have just touched the sun, this game will leave you with only one word in your 
 mind "EPIC". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Beautiful graphics, realistic physics, cool and robust trick system, deep ATV customization, 
 fun event types, fast sense of speed
  
  The Bad: AI is painfully difficult to beat, only 3 event types, no rider customization, gets old 
 after awhile
  
  When I saw the Pure demo on XBLM I just blew it off. After seeing how people were having so much 
 fun with the game I downloaded the demo and boy was I in for a treat! The game was super fast, 
 super easy to play, and super beautiful! One thing I just have to say is that I was surprised at 
 how great the game looked. The game is truly next-gen with beautiful open soaring vistas, crisp 
 blue lakes and waterfalls. Free flowing grass, flowers, and weeds. Mud that really stick to your 
 ride and makes you feel like you're slipping around in mud. The game is just so beautiful to look 
 at especially when you're going 120 mph over 200 foot jumps off cliffs! Yeah this game is all about 
 tricks, speed, and pure awesomeness (maybe this is why they just named it Pure so you can fill 
 in the rest?) the game really feels fast, but the tracks are open and big enough for you to slip 
 and slide around in without feeling cramped.
  
  The name of the game is all about building your ride and doing tricks (ok the name is actually 
 Pure, but work with me!) When you start out you can build your ride from scratch, and I mean straight 
 from the frame and you add shocks, tires, drums, brakes, the body, foot rests, the whole nine yards. 
 You can even change what your hand bars look like, the color, decals, I mean customizing your ride 
 is insanely detailed and nothing like this has been done in an ATV game before. Of course you can 
 pick your characters as well, but there's not customization in that and I thought that was pretty 
 lame since you look at your character more than your ride anyways. You can unlock new parts and 
 upgrades for your ATV as you win races (yes 1st place on every event or you don't get the good 
 stuff) . There are plenty of parts and you slowly get better and better upgrades to keep up with 
 the competition so there are no worries on that part and as you unlock more ATV slots you can just 
 make endless different types of ATVs.
  
  You're probably wondering what it's like to actually race right? Well that's the best part! You 
 preload your jumps like in all ATV racing games and you press the right stick in any direction 
 plus one of the face buttons to do a trick. Ok it's a lot more involved then that and there is 
 a unique twist to all of this here. The trick system is integrated into the boost system so you 
 can spend your boost with the X button as normal OR you can save it and unlock new buttons to perform 
 new tricks with as your bar fills up. Get it half way up and you get the B button which lets you 
 do intermediate tricks and these take longer to pull of than the A button tricks. Get your bar 
 almost all the way up and you unlock the Y button tricks and these are the cooler more advanced 
 tricks that take the longest. Get your bar ALL the way up and you get a special trick bonus and 
 you can perform a special trick by pressing the right stick in any direction plus pressing the 
 RB+LB buttons. This takes a good 4-5 seconds to pull off so only do this on the SUPER high jumps! 
 But wait there's more!
  
  You just can't keep pulling off the same trick over and over since there is a rating system. Every 
 time you do a new trick you'll get a "Fresh!" star next to the name of the trick; do it again and 
 you get a silver "Tame!" star, and three times you get a bronze "Stale!" star. Tame stars give 
 you a tiny bit of boost and Stale stars don't give you any boosts. Link tricks together and you 
 can get major boost... umm boosts and you can quickly unlock the other buttons. Wait there's more 
 though! You can also tweak your tricks by pressing either the LB or RB buttons; while these take 
 longer to perform they give you an extra boost.
  
  Tricks also have different effects in different race types. There are only three types, but they 
 are very fun: Race, Sprint, and Freestyle. The Race event is what I was just talking about, so 
 you race three laps and you have multiple branches throughout the track that you can take to cut 
 off the other racers and hopefully gain a lead. These are a must learn since there is a strategy 
 to winning each track. Sprint is 5 laps of a 25-40 second track that maybe has 2-3 small jumps 
 on it so you must nail these to get your boost! Freestyle is probably the most robust event where 
 you have a "gas gauge" and you have to get the highest score before your gas runs out. Linking 
 tricks together give you a multiplier timer and picking up pick-ups along the way can help this. 
 Some range from freezing your gas for a few seconds, some give you an automatic special trick, 
 some double your score, some give you boost etc. The Freestyle event is always fun and the gas 
 tank meter keeps you on your feet.
  
  Now all of this is fine and dandy, but the game does have some flaws. The AI can be very hard and 
 frustrating since no matter how well you race you can never make 1st. I had to start races over 
 dozens of times to nail first place and you have to memorize the track and drive flawlessly to 
 get first place. Like I mentioned you can't customize your character, there are only 3 event types 
 so this makes multiplayer kind of drab. The game also starts to feel very old and repetitive after 
 awhile since there are so many tricks to pull off and the game is just the same over and over again. 
 Still though you'll have lots of fun with this game and I hope the sequel provides more Pure awesomeness. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legendary-Mode
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Ripping around a tight corner covered with loose glacial scree, I dig in, nail the nitrous boost 
 and preload my bike's suspension at the top of a 45-degree jump. With a lurch, my ATV leaves the 
 ground and launches into the air, floating hundreds of feet above the mountains of New Zealand 
 before beginning its sickeningly fast decent. Being the cool-headed racer I am, I decide this is 
 the perfect time to pull off a series of aerial tricks, including the Saddle Flip, in which I stand 
 on my quad bike's seat and do a backflip in midair. I land it like a pro, bank some boost juice 
 as a reward and speed off toward the next jump.
  
  As you ramp up your trick availability during a race, you'll also bank nitrous boost, shown as 
 a fluid blue wedge beneath your trick meter and controlled by the X button. Depending on what type 
 of race you're participating in, you'll constantly balance doing tricks, which fills your boost 
 meter, and using that boost, which takes away your ability to pull off higher-level tricks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil-zee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun if you liked the ATV off-road fury franchise. It's just as entertaining 
 as most other ATV game, however the sound is spot on, and the visuals are stunning. This makes 
 it unique. A game well deserved to be played. :)
  System requirements CPU Intel Pentium 4 processor, AMD Athlon processor 2GHz or more (Dual Core 
 recommended) /
  OS: Windows Vista, Windows XP/ RAM: 1GB/ Hard Drive Space: 3GB/ Graphics card: 128MB DirectX 9.0c-compatible 
 3D video card supporting Shaders 3.0 (ATI 2 series or later recommended, NVIDIA 7 Series or later 
 recommended) / Sound Card: DirectX 9.0c-compatible sound card/ DVD-ROM Drive 8x.
  
  Pure was well received by critics. Game Rankings give the game an average score of 84.6% for the 
 PC game, 82.6% for the Playstation 3 game, and 85.4% for the Xbox 360 game. Metacritic gave the 
 game an average score of 83 out of 100 for both the PC and Playstation 3 games, and 85 out of 100 
 for the Xbox 360 game. Ryan Geddes from IGN gave the game a 8.4 out of a possible 10 points, praising 
 that "The controls are intuitive, the tracks are pure eye candy and the tricks are so crazy", but 
 noting that the game lacked depth.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty_12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is great and has great features like being able to slide your quad and build your own 
 quads in garage and even has a quick build feature for the bikes you can also do some pretty amazing 
 tricks that are also unrealistic as you progress throught the game the bikes get faster the parts 
 get better and for each stage you complete you can upgrade selected parts.
  
  in freestyle mode you need to tie together combos and get huge points to earn boost and special 
 tricks and you also have to beat your opponents to advantge items like fuel freeze 2x points and 
 boost, in freestyle you have a fuel limit that you have to make last as long as possible.
  
  in sprint races you need 2 go as fast as you can while maintaining control beacuse the people 
 will try anything to get you off your atv and jumps are few and far apart and you need to conserve 
 your boost.
  
  in the race gme type you get a big track alot of jumps and alot of paths to choose from my advice 
 is race the track through the unlock it if you get bad position go onto the mode where you just 
 play with no competition and find the best line and what bike is best for the track
  
  this is an awsome game and it is well worth the money
  
  scotty 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyboy94
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is great for fanboys of customization options, you can spend up to half an hour customizing 
 just one atv. you customize quite literaly every single thing on the bike, once gameplay starts 
 thing really get going, you have over 50 stuints to chose from, stunts from a, b, y buttons then 
 you can tweak those with left and right bumpers, fronflips and backflips. and the super stunts 
 are just downright ridiculos and great, but after a while it gets quite repetive, as the tracks 
 get old, the racers do nothing at all exept get faster , and the tacks just bet boring, this game 
 is a rent unless you a fanboy of this kind of game, im not saying its bad, its actualy very fun 
 as long as its not played for long periods of  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netraam
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  If you disregard the overly embellished characters in Pure, the final product is a highly entertaining 
 racer packed with insanely amusing stunts and addicting gameplay that will have to saying many 
 an expletive. The fact is that Pure is just insanely fun. Whether your looking for racing or you 
 are looking to get your mind boggled, Pure is a racer that combines many of the best elements of 
 the racing genre to create a highly recommendable game to play.
  
  There are three race types in Pure: there's the standard Race, usually consisting of three laps; 
 the Sprint, which is a many-lapped race on a short course with one or few jumps; and then there's 
 Freestyle, in which you are given a set amount of gas to do as many tricks as possible to obtain 
 the highest score. Sprints and races are fun, but they don't bring out the best in the game. Freestyle 
 is the type I would have loved to see more of, as it is the most outrageous and has the highest 
 replay value. Speaking of Freestyle, tricks are a big part of Pure, as they are highly entertaining, 
 and fill up your boost meter. To pull off tricks you press either the A, B, or Y buttons, along 
 with a direction on the left thumbstick, depending on how much boost you have or how much time 
 you think you will have before you hit the ground. You start off with the A button to pull off 
 standard tricks like the can-can or the lazy-boy. Then, as your boost increases, you can press 
 the B to pull off more insane stunts like the nac-nac. Then the Y button becomes available for 
 you to pull off lengthy but seriously awesome tricks like the skyscraper or the tweak (pictured 
 on the cover) . Finally you can press both bumpers to pull off a special trick, an insanely long 
 trick that seems humanly impossible (such as the gyromaniac, in which you flip and spin at different 
 angles many times over) . Landing a special trick will allow you to pull off another one, as your 
 boost-bar is completely refilled after you hit the ground. Failing it will result in a serious 
 drop to the lower level tricks however. (note: you can also do flips combined with other tricks 
 or solo, but not with specials)
  
  The visuals are one of the best parts of Pure. The truth is, what will have you coming back for 
 more is the incredibly mesmerizing vistas that are found in every track in Pure. The environments 
 are gorgeous, ranging from tropical trails in Thailand to muddy and snow-covered tracks in New 
 Zealand. You'll also get to visit places in New Mexico, Wyoming, and Italy among a few other areas 
 in the world, each containing breathtaking views and stellar jumps. Small details also add to the 
 adrenaline rush in Pure: the blurry lines when going at extreme speeds, the mud on the bottom of 
 your character and his/her vehicle after it has gone through some rough terrain. Simply put, the 
 environments and graphics are engaging and are one of Pure's highest points.
  
  The sound is ok. Almost all the vehicles will sound the same, and there is a decent selection of 
 decent songs. It sounds cool when you land a big jump or when you boost, but other than that there's 
 nothing fantastic about the sound department. One complaint though is that on certain screens the 
 announcer will talk extremely fast relative to the respective subtitles.
  
  There really s no story to Pure, but there doesn't need to be. You'll have the world tour to go 
 through, but once you beat the 10 events that increase in difficulty and length as you go along, 
 there is just the game. But that's not a bad thing. it's still incredibly entertaining and replayable 
 after you've gone through the World tour. There is also mediocre online play, consisting of ranked 
 and unranked matches, but it is sometimes hard to find many people in either game type, and playing 
 in a game with a full party is almost impossible.
  
  Hardcore racing fans will probably not enjoy Pure to it's fullest potential. Pure is fun because 
 it's over the top. It looks great, it's extremely entertaining to watch tricks, and the vertigo 
 jumps are mesmerizing. That said, the game is highly recommendable, packed with adrenaline, and 
 fun to it's highest degree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martin_289
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Imagine SSX on ATVs and you've got Pure, an ATV racing/trick game with good multiplayer and fantastic 
 vistas.
  
  Graphics are the best thing about Pure. Scenery is varied and done brilliantly with stunning views 
 when you are pulling insane tricks hundreds of feet in the air. Sound effects are good and the 
 music is great too with tracks from the likes of the Futureheads and Pendulum. Another great thing 
 about Pure is it's multiplayer where you can battle againt others online in race mode, sprint mode, 
 freestyle and freeride modes. Sprint is my favourite because it's all about accuracy and precision 
 but it really depends what you feel like playing. Pure gives you the power to choose.
  
  Unfortunately the single player can be done within 5 hours and the multiplayer will get boring 
 after you have played the same people or track again and again. After around 20 hours there's just 
 no point in playing the game any more and that's the worst thing about Pure.
  
  If you are looking for a thrill ride with a difference look no further than Pure, but make sure 
 to rent it because it will save you some cash! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinyPinkRobots
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  This game could've been very good, its a fun game with ok-ish single player (depite lasting about 
 5 minutes) but there is no split screen which completely ruins the game, this is a game that defenitely 
 needed local multiplayer, do people not play games with friends anymore? this game would be amazing 
 if it had multiplayer local, thats the reason i buy racing games! sure it has online but i brought 
 it a week after release and it took about 5 minutes to find a game. The single player really isn't 
 that fun and the tricks get very old quickly, the only think thats great about this game is the 
 graphics, they are fantastic but are completely let down by the game, the gameplay is not bad, 
 but it gets very boring. I have only rambled on for this long to fill the 800 limit thing.
  This game was most defenitely not worth the money, but it in a few months when its in the 2 for 
 18
  
  To sum up, this game is pretty crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: not_guilty_84
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  when i first inserted Pure into my Xbox 360 i thought to myself "wow this game is gonna be good!" 
 and for the first couple hours, it really was! you can make huge death defying jumps while racing 
 and pull off many tricks to earn boost, Sounds fun right? it really is for the first few series (if 
 on World Tour Mode) . Then it starts repeating itself and gradually getting more and more dull. 
 The graphics first off, are really amazing and really amazing to watch! the game play is really 
 fun and entertaining until you get hung up on a poll or thrown off a cliff (taking 3 or more seconds 
 to re-spawn and leaving you in the back of the race) . The tricks get really boring after a while 
 and the specials become really annoying to pull off. The best part about this game is the ability 
 to create your quad from the ground up! this includes chassis, suspension, engine, brakes, tires, 
 rims, handlebars ETC... but your not able to create your own person and have to choose from some 
 pretty lame people with few different outfits. i would recommend Rent this game and if it entertains 
 you then buy it! if not then your left almost $10.00 out and an experience you don't want to encounter 
 again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabar2319
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Pure is as far from the repetitive FPS games as to make it a breath of fresh air and a stale gaming 
 world. 
  
  Just sit down, pick a ride and get ready to be 'wowed.' Beautiful scenery and tracks, breathtaking 
 jumps (2nd only to Assassin's Creed) . Difficult enough to challenge most players - and with benefits 
 from exploring the tracks and terrain. Find a short-cut - but you better be a good racer - because 
 the shorter the course the more difficult the terrain is to navigate. Lot of bike customization 
 options - and the most obvious choices don't pan-out with the performance you'd expect. AI is aggressive 
 but fair - a good match for the game. Easy to play - but hard to master. Achievements are accessible 
 - but not overly difficult. Game is too short - and could benefit novice and expert drivers by 
 having a tiered difficulty system. Ability to tweak bike options would be nice as well. This ain't 
 no Forza 2 - but its very good and a lot of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Pure does so many things right it's odd more developers don't use this formula. The first thing 
 you will notice is how great the game looks. It has beautiful track designs that are well planned 
 out to mix up the fun and challenge. 
  
  The tracks don't all look the same but have a similar enough feel that the player never has to 
 spend too much time trying to get used to a new track. The devs really did a top notch job making 
 a racing game deep enough for skilled players and light hearted enough for racing novices all at 
 once.
  
  Then you have a trick system that is rewarding, fun to watch, and addictive as well. If this wasn't 
 enough, the controls are by far the best for an ATV arcade game and feel just right. The customization 
 options are nice and fun to play around wth.
  
  So far the online is really smooth and I've had a blast with almost every race. If you liked the 
 SSX games, you will be in love with this game. It really is a shining example of how to make a 
 racing game almost everyone can enjoy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acrazzyhobo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Good game, but if you dont have xbox live then buy it used and return, or just rent, because you 
 will probably not play it again after the PURE WORLD TOUR if you do not have online. This is because 
 of the lack of local multiplayer. The racing is good and there are alot of tricks and combo's too. 
 The scenery is amazing and the graphics are great too. The online play is good but just too bad 
 there are not alot of people yet. One last thing I personoly did not like about it is that you 
 can not customize your character. You have to chose from the ones they give you. Although you can 
 custimize them with outfits you unclock but that still does not do it for me. Pure is possibly 
 the best racing game I have played on the Xbox 360. That is JUST ME! Do not get mad at me for saying 
 your stupid this game sucks! Every one has their own opinion! Overall great game and worth playing. 
 Xbox LIve Name: acrazzyhobo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Star-T2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Man omg this game is nonetheless nothing of extreme all around, the tricks the racing the feel 
 is PURE is crazy, im stuck on this game, it gets no better then this if you lookin for a PURE thrill 
 and PURE rush of adrenaline. The game is underrated for what reason i dont know, what other game 
 lets you jump a 100 ft in the air, ohh and forget boundaries you make your own boundaries, and 
 the multiplayer is crazy not for the weak if you are just starting out. You want a game thats gonna 
 last a lifetime if you're into racing and all out craziness, you should get it because not enough 
 are trying to give it a chance just because of disney studios, but ill tell you all my friends 
 that played are hooked onto it and went out and bought their own copy, the game offers up to 16 
 multiplayer online, so just thing while you are trickin out in the air you can see other people 
 in the distance doing other awesome crazyness, the graphics are ridiculous, you need PURE so get 
 it. DO IT... DO IT... :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moriel73
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  PROS: 
  Solid driving system and easy to pick up. 
  Thrilling races. 
  Over the top cool tricks. 
  Really nice animations. 
  Excellent camera angles. 
  Beautiful 
 Graphics (better then GRID) . 
  Gorgeous scenarios (specially the vertical panoramas while in mid air) . 
  Physics engine. 
 
  Competitive AI. 
  Lots of upgrades that actually help you a lot. 
  Replay value. 
  Just fun to play solo or online. 
  
  CONS: 
  Not as many tricks as you might expect, but 
 its OK. 
  Some other game modes would have been nice, but the basic ones do the trick. 
  
  Overall Thoughts: 
  As the name suggests this is game is PURE racing, PURE thrill, PURE over 
 the top fun! It is incredibly easy to pick up and if you've played "Motorostorm" and "Tony Hawk 
 PS" or "Skate" you'll feel just like home. This is for me the best ATV racing game ever made and 
 probably the best racing game of the year. Just pick it up, it's worth it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devver
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I am not a big fan of Racing games but this one susprised me. I picked up Pure because many of 
 my friends were telling me to try it... so I did and I LOVED it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were great. The bikers were well detailed, the enviroment's were well detailed. 
 Over all the game had great graphics.
  
  Audio: The sound effects for the ATV's were Superb but I found the music over all to be annoying 
 but luckly it supported music from your own Xbox 360 so I was ok.
  
  Gameplay: It was easy to pick up and play but for a hardcore gamer there wasn't much else then 
 the same 12 tricks and there special tricks but that not completly bad. Customising your ATV was 
 also very fun and there were a lot of choices but some of the parts (I found) were exactly the 
 same.
  
  Overall I had a great time with this game, a little short but still addicting.
  
  8.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to off-road racing titles, some can be frustrating, some can be fairly good. Pure 
 manages to pull off an easy learning curve but as you progress, some things do tend to get frustrating. 
 Pure isn't just racing, it's also a trick-based game. A franchise like SSX had snowboarding and 
 tricks  this seemed to make the games very fun and added a new factor to the gameplay. Pure seems 
 to be doing that too. Why just race? Use tricks and boost to aid you through some of the events.
 
  
  There are several modes and online play available in Pure. Jumping into World Tour is a good place 
 to start, since you go through a quick tutorial to learn the basics. This is pretty much what the 
 demo offered. There are several events in respective categories. The first sets of events limit 
 you do D class bikes and you'll eventually be able to use A class bikes. Upon your first few events, 
 the narrator instructs you what you can do but I've found he can repeat the same things a lot but 
 eventually his voice does goes away.
  
  You can choose from several characters and unlock costumes as you progress. Each character has 
 their own unique special move but other than that and their looks, they pretty much perform the 
 same. It's the bike that has plenty of combinations. You can quick build them or go through and 
 tweak the components yourself. Many parts can be changed  the tires, engine, frame, body, boost 
 and colours. To make the bike feel more personal you can apply some decals and even name it.
  
  Changing some parts alter the statistics (as shown on the right) . So, you can tweak it to be 
 quite fast, have it focused for tricks and ensure it has good handling. Different events will be 
 suited for different bikes. You are better off having good handling on sprints, tricks for the 
 freestyle and speed for races. The three event types will be spread out across World Tour. Races 
 you should most likely be familiar with  just aim for first place. Sprints are races on shorter 
 tracks but with more laps present. Just racing may get you the first place but ensuring you do 
 tricks and boost at suitable times could greatly increase your chance of winning. The final event 
 type is Freestyle. This event is purely focused on doing a good variety of tricks and linking them 
 together.
  
  Each event is fun to do, although races at times can get annoying with the rubber banding of AI 
 vehicles towards the end. The most difficult event would be Freestyle, since you've got to keep 
 focused and time out tricks throughout. In order to get a good score, you need to do 'fresh' tricks. 
 This simply means to do tricks that you have not yet done. Eventually, you can come back and do 
 the tricks you've already done providing you've done a good variety of them before. Doing the same 
 ones over and over will award you with a 'stale' notification and you will not get as much boost. 
 The key to freestyle is to do as many fresh tricks as possible, try to get combos and not crash!
 
  
  There's nothing worse than crashing during Freestyle, since you will break your combo and lose 
 a good amount of fuel. Fuel is a timer and you can either freeze it (by collecting tokens) or add 
 to it by doing fresh tricks and special tricks. It decreases faster over time. There are several 
 tokens you can collect to aid you in Freestyle. These can provide you with boost and give you the 
 ability to do a special move without building up boost. Now, basic tricks are fairly quick and 
 easy to do (this is done by launching into the air and using a desired direction on the left stick 
 along with the A button) and you'll unlock more advanced tricks. The B button tricks take slightly 
 longer and Y button tricks can often be risky to do on small jumps. Pure encourages you pre-load 
 in order to get more airtime, which means more tricks.
  
  As well as the standard tricks, there are special tricks. These can take a lot longer to do and 
 so finding a good jump is essential. The animations and sound effects have been really well done 
 for them. Often, on many tracks, you will learn and find the jumps suitable for the special tricks. 
 In total, eight special tricks can be performed, with one being unique to the character you are 
 using. There's one downside to them, though. Upon playing through Pure, I have noticed at times 
 you are landing on all four wheels near-enough perfectly but still crash. This is probably because 
 the animation is still going and it thinks you have failed because of it not completing. So, this 
 and a few other annoyances really do bring down the level of fun.
  
  I have no idea about the meaning of the title but I can probably guess why. Pure offers a lush, 
 often exciting experience on all of its tracks. Being up in the air and looking out into the distance 
 really looks great. Pure is a fast, often thrilling racing title to play. Certain things, such 
 as the difficulty change depending on how well you are doing in World Tour; I feel this could have 
 been scrapped, since I like playing on a difficulty I feel comfortable with. Most of the tracks 
 have several routes you can take  the AI always seem to follow the quickest route at times, which 
 isn't too fair upon playing the track for the first time.
  
  World Tour mode doesn't offer enough and you can probably get it done in under ten hours. However, 
 you've got the freedom of choosing to race on your favourite tracks and to train on them using 
 the other modes. There's an option on the menus to participate in the events without no AI present. 
 You may find this helpful for setting new records and to get a better feel of the chosen track. 
 There are single events you can choose and go against the AI. The difficulty, unlike World Tour, 
 can be actually be changed. There is also the option to drive the other way around the track.
 
  
  Online play feels pretty solid. When I raced, it just felt like I was playing single-player. Didn't 
 seem to be laggy and you can include AI players to fill in the gaps. As with many online titles, 
 you're going to get players who want to climb up those leaderboards. So, there are ranked matches 
 to go into and player matches, if you're just looking for a quick and easy way to play against 
 friends. The developers have put a lot of effort into making many parts of the game be at an acceptable 
 quality. The music has a tone that you could probably associate with something thrilling. They've 
 certainly got the environments done well  you'll be seeing a lot of the mountains, trees and such 
 whilst up high in the air. It's almost like being on a roller coaster.
  
  Pure is a very well done title but isn't perfect. There are some things that just make it frustrating, 
 such as landing in the wrong direction, having the AI landing on top of you, that can often make 
 you crash and the adaptive difficulty present in the World Tour mode. Overall, this should be something 
 to easily enjoy on your own and with friends on Xbox LIVE. Unfortunately, there's no split-screen 
 multiplayer present, though. The achievements are fair but you shouldn't necessarily aim for them 
 first thing. Getting through World Tour will unlock many and by the time you've done that, you'll 
 be ready to go for any remaining achievements. There are a few that just seem luck-based, though. 
 Especially the achievement for coming first from last place on the final lap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckizard
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Remeber the old SSX Tricky, where you could do those crazy, out-of-this-world stunts and go multiple 
 places? Imagine that on quads, out in the dirt. This game is crazy good fun with wild courses all 
 over the world, each with multiple paths throughout that make racing challenging and fun. 
  
  Quads are fully customized by you, and you can create many and keep them to race the different 
 courses, whether ti be a trick course, sprint course, or just plain racing. Tons of customizing 
 options for each bike. 
  
  Tracks are crazy fun with HUGE jumps every so often that give you the height to use your built 
 up stunt bar to crack that uber stunt that'll blow your mind when you see them.
  
  Online racing is a blast with lots of bumping and rubbing and nothing beats flying into the air 
 and someone behind you seeing you pull off that super-uber stunt right in front of them!
  
  Great game, great entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGhOsT187
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised it was fast paced and a flurry of dirt, usaully racing games these days are slow 
 motion Like forza This is blast to play ..... If you actually have ever riden then you will have 
 fun..... Most of the bad rating will come from guys wishing things were way more complicated .... or 
 cant pull a combo or special out of there a$$......... Its a good game and i like the build your 
 own quad LOL they even had acerbis bark buster for my bars........... basiclly a fast pace scramble 
 racing ..... and its fast pace   The end
  
  
  I was surprised it was fast paced and a flurry of dirt, usaully racing games these days are slow 
 motion Like forza This is blast to play ..... If you actually have ever riden then you will have 
 fun..... Most of the bad rating will come from guys wishing things were way more complicated .... or 
 cant pull a combo or special out of there a$$......... Its a good game and i like the build your 
 own quad LOL they even had acerbis bark buster for my bars........... basiclly a fast pace scramble 
 racing ..... and its fast pace   The end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  If the MX and Tony Hawk series were to mate then the offspring would probably resemble Pure. It 
 takes an arcade racing style and combines that with an insane trick system, while staying true 
 to its off-road theme. When I say "insane trick system" I'm not exaggerating very much. Many of 
 the tricks in Pure will never be attempted by someone in real life unless they have a death wish. 
 A personal favorite of mine is a trick that allows you to get on top of your ATV and play air guitar 
 in mid-air. 
  
  The only vehicles in the game that you'll be able to ride are ATVs. That's not as bad as it would 
 initially seem because you can build your own from scratch. A-arms, frames, engines, seats, wheels, 
 tires, and nosecones are just some of the parts you'll be able to customize. The parts will affect 
 your ride's performance as well as the way it looks. You'll constantly unlock new parts because 
 you'll be rewarded after every race. You will see which part you unlocked after the race but you 
 have to go back into the garage menu and cycle through every single category to find the part you 
 won, and then decide if that part improves upon your bike's strengths. If you have more than one 
 ATV then you'll need to do that process more than once. It would've been far less tedious if something 
 came up as soon as you won the race to tell you "this part will give you +2 acceleration, equip 
 now?" What I'm talking about is some sort of auto-equip feature. It's very much needed.
  
  One of the other problems is that you don't have many options to choose from when you want to customize 
 the appearance of your ATV. There are very few colors and decals to decorate your bike with. It's 
 extremely shallow compared to just about any other racing game out there that lets you control 
 how your vehicle looks. 
  
  In an extreme sports game like this you would probably expect the soundtrack to feature a lot of 
 fast paced and energetic rock/metal songs to get your blood pumping. Pure goes in the opposite 
 direction which means that the soundtrack is a total throw-away. What Pure's soundtrack mostly 
 consists of is boring electronic music written by no-name artists. Even if the songs were good 
 it wouldn't matter because electronic music doesn't belong in a game like this. It's basically 
 the equivalent of hearing Britney Spears songs in a Zelda game. 
  
  As bad as the soundtrack isthe graphics mostly make up for that. The riders and ATV's are immensely 
 detailed and all of the trick animations are wonderfully done. There are a lot of massive ramps 
 to jump off of and when you're in the air you can see buildings, water and forests as far as the 
 eye can see. It's also worth noting that thick mud deforms beautifully as you tread on through 
 it. It's not the most impressive looking mud out there but that's not that big of a deal. The only 
 blemish is some semi-frequent texture pop-in on some of the trees. 
  
  The one thing that Pure does exceedingly well is the gameplay. You are encouraged to do big tricks 
 because they will earn you boosting power. You will only be able to do small tricks at first but 
 as you acquire more boost you can then do bigger tricks. The A button does beginner tricks, B does 
 intermediate tricks, Y does advanced tricks and the two shoulder buttons will do special tricks. 
 (such as the air guitar trick that I mentioned earlier) You'll not always care about doing big 
 tricks because you can use your boosting power to make you go really fast for a limited amount 
 of time, but if you do that for a long time then you'll lose the ability to do some of the big 
 tricks. This leads to some strategic depth because sometimes you'll want to hold on to your boost 
 power to save up for a big trick and sometimes you'll want to use a lot of boost power to go fast 
 because you're loosing a race real bad. 
  
  The game advertises that there are three game-types but there are basically only two and a half. 
 Race, sprint and freestyle. Race is self explanatory, sprint is basically the same as race except 
 the courses are much shorter and narrow, and freestyle has you doing tricks which will string into 
 combos. It's similar to something like the Tony Hawk games. As you do a trick this little timer 
 will appear and if you do a trick before it runs out, your points multiplier will go to x2 and 
 then to x3, x4 and so on. 
  
  The online play is basically the same as the offline portion which is a disappointment. You can 
 play all two and a half game-types online but there's nothing special about it. There's no ranking 
 system, the load times are long, and people aren't penalized for quitting early. It would've been 
 better if the developers made more of an effort by putting in a large amount of exclusive game-types 
 or courses for online play 
  
  It's worth mentioning that online play is the only kind of multiplayer that Pure has. There are 
 no split-screen or system link functionalities of any kind. In this day and age every competitive 
 game should have at least one or the other. It was a stupid idea to include neither. 
  
  As a result of that, Pure is not a game that I can recommend as a purchase because the offline 
 world tour mode is the only thing worth your time. It'll make a great rental but there's nothing 
 in Pure that'll keep you coming back for more than a week. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: som3az
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  When i started the game i just got into it. I beat up the first thing came to me in the game in 
 less than 2 minutes total then i ran into the world tour.
  
  You build your own ATV with all the customization you would like. So let me state the pros and 
 cons about the game
  
  Pros: Difficulty is just right.
  It's not easy to win a race but it just needs a short while to get used to. Learning curve is fast 
 if you are into speedy games.
  
  Customization: A Huge variety of parts, manufacturers and colors that give you the best customizability 
 to your ATV
  
  Graphics. I ran this on my 24Inch Full HD screen and guys the graphics are super cool i just can't 
 wait for my 42" sony bravia to arrive to try this on it.
  
  Cons: i wished i can make my own character by dressing / gear and so on. this would have made the 
 game worth a 10 for me.
  
  Bottom Line.. If you are into speed, Tricks, Fun and graphics this game is what you are looking 
 for, If you want to play something that will suck you into the game, This game is what you should 
 look for.
  
  Good investment and i hope everybody likes it as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  As I sit here writing this marvellous review on the little quad bike stunt game called PURE, I 
 quickly take a look at the back of the box with its saying
  'Land impossible, gravity  defying tricks as your soar over breathtaking landscapes and race your 
 way to victory.'
  Well apart from the fact they aren't really gravity defying tricks, and nor are the landscapes 
 going to take your breath away unless you are up high, but the landing impossible tricks is by 
 far the most truthful thing the box could have possibly said. It is impossible to land those tricks. 
 That problem along with the fixed camera, boring environment, same tricks, no vehicle list and 
 several other bad elements, when combined together don't make the most happier of products.
  
  It is one of those games in which you hate it so much that you have to keep going back and 
 trying one last time. And that's not good because the AI is an absolute pig in this game, and that's 
 not an exaggeration. After you complete the initial training level which is way too easy, you are 
 chucked into an environment where Americans have played online for 2 weeks more than rest of the 
 world and thrash you with their eyes closed, the worst AI in the racing game ever, and only 3 possible 
 modes with 2 of them being race modes, and 1 of those modes being a smaller version of the other. 
 It is just completely absurd that they could possibly screw up an off road game which was meant 
 to knock out the awfully bland Untamed game from earlier this year.
  
  You have really got to love pulling repetive stunts for little boost to really get kicks out of 
 this game. In Race mode, you are expected to cross the line first to achieve maximum points, so 
 you build a Race ATV from the Quick Build mode, with good speed but not good stunts, and you race. 
 You lose because you realise you need to pull stunts. You get a stunt quad. You lose because you 
 realise you need speed to pull off stunts. The whole concept of building your own karts just goes 
 on its head, with the Quick Build options completely broken, and not giving the correct ratio for 
 Speed to stunts, and when you build your own quad it never reaches its full potential. It's a letdown 
 which means that unless your quad has a random mutation, it won't be winning any Races soon.
  
  The next mode is basically a rip-off version of Races, called Sprints. Sprints are driving 
 round in either a figure of 8 in a square-ish circle. There are two more laps than in Race mode, 
 but the rules are still the same, you must cross the line first. At this point you realise you 
 need a good handling car and one which has speed because there is usually only a couple of stunt 
 jumps to boost your metre, so speed and control is everything in these miniature races. I must 
 say the Sprint is a rip-off mode which is actually better than the thing it's trying to rip-off!
 
  
  The last and equally painful mode is Freestyle. Freestyle is where you have to get round the track, 
 performing stunts, getting X2 multipliers, unlocking special tricks, and more to get your points 
 really high, higher than your equally bad AI opponents. There are several downsides again to this 
 mode. It has a fuel gauge which runs down very quickly per stunt you pull off. When your fuel runs 
 out it is game over. The fuel and per lap refills are very unnoticeable as well. Also the AI does 
 not score any points until you score yours. Once you have scored yours, they always rapidly increase 
 their score. A bit of bad coding I think!
  
  So what makes the AI so bad you may be wondering? Well the lines they take a fine in every way, 
 and the actual skill of the driver AI is good, but the due to not having any difficulty levels 
 in this game, the AI always have a knack for being remarkably close to over taking you even if 
 you are meant to be 2 seconds ahead of them. And one crash and one bad turn, and the AI catch up 
 remarkably quickly and most likely overtake you. It's a common problem in off road quad games that 
 the AI is just completely unbeatable but at points it just so annoying. You say to go online and 
 be happy, but then you have some equally experienced real player who's played it 24/7 thrash you 
 on your first lap, leaving you to cover the dirt from last. 
  
  Talking about dirt, the only time when you visibly see the dirt on your quad and racer is at the 
 end of race cut scene. I made sure I had time during the race before the line to see the mud on 
 my bike and you could see it was just a bit browner along with the character but there wasn't any 
 realism in it until the cut scene occurred. This is one of the few times you appreciate cut scenes 
 in racing games, when they present to you the glorious site of mud on your racer and quad. 
  
  So there is my little moan about what makes the game pretty bad, what makes the game actually 
 bearable enough to buy? Well for a fact the graphics are delightful. They actually a very modern, 
 very detailed and the draw distance are huge. Also the controls are extremely flexible and the 
 stunt controls have never been easier. Add to this the fantastic soundtrack which is so hard to 
 find in off road games, and you do have a brilliant game at heart. It's a just a shame that the 
 AI is hard, the camera is fixed, meaning when you go round a corner the camera stay looking forward 
 meaning you can't see where your quad goes, and the very small vehicle list. It's a shame because 
 the concept of this game was fantastic and it's the little things which should be right, which 
 end up being wrong, which just spoil the game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganandorf1000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Pure is a ATV racing game and unlike other ATVs and motor bike racing games it doesn't suck... WOW 
 I know it's a shocker but this game is worth playing if you like racing games. The main point of 
 course is to complete all challenges like sprints and circuits, but trick filled. You pull off 
 major jumps and do tricks, and then get enough boost to do intermediate tricks, then do expert, 
 and finally when the bar is completely full, you do your special trick and the special trick depends 
 upon the racer you've chosen. Probably the best part of this game is the ATV building menu. As 
 you beat challenges you get new ATV parts and garage spots that allow you to build more ATVs. You 
 build your ATV from scratch all from engines, to your handlebar, this feature is really in depth 
 and really good. Then there are the achievements, and like most Xbox players achievements are very 
 important and I tell you that the achievements in these game are well thought off and don't suck 
 like a lot of games. None of those 'Get to the top of the leaderboards and you get 10 points crap'. 
 I tell you people, this game is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bighou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  This game not only lives up to the hype but brought even more. I'm not too much into racing but 
 this game is off the hook! I love how they made the tricks part of your progress in racing. You 
 have to do major tricks to get turbo boost. I love that. The handling is great in the game and 
 so are the tracks. The music also totally fits the game as well. I can't wait to get good enough 
 to do all the ultimate tricks. They all look sick. It's very fun to upgrade your ATV as well. You 
 get a couple of slots to create other ATV's for specific tracks. This game is just about perfect. 
 It's not too much and definitely not too little. Just pain fun fun fun. I couldn't wait to race 
 again again and again. I wodner what kind of XBL Updates they'll have for this game. I hope they 
 have some but this game is pretty much perfect out of the box. Trust me, this game is a MUST HAVE!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Almost my entire life i didn't liked racing games , basically because they are not fun at all. 
 My dad only play racing games, but i always get sleepy when i see him playing any racing game. 
 I tried to like the Need for Speed series but still no success...
  Then i saw some videos about Pure, the visuals looked really impressive, and unique. Then i gave 
 it a try and BANG! Pure was the first racing game i really liked, its simply amazing. The visuals 
 are the most beautiful ones i ever saw on a racing game, the gameplay is easy and very good, and 
 is extremely fun.
  Plus you can build your on ATV in the way you like from the scratch. You can build your ride in 
 any way you like it , for any kind of race and course.
  Is one of the games i really would recommend for anyone who looks for fun and great visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This past month, I've taken 3 trips to my local Hollywood video store in search of an easy game 
 that I could laze away at while having fun without a huge challenge. First, I picked up Star Wars: 
 The Force Unleashed. That game, while innovative, wasn't very fun to complete. Then I picked up 
 Pure hoping for something better. Instead I played one of the hardest racing games in a long time (I 
 ended up with LEGO Batman which has fulfilled my desire for an easy game) .
  
  Pure is just plain fun. It looks good, plays good, and executes good, but this isn't the kiddies 
 game its marketed to be (Disney publishing it doesn't mean insta easy I've learned) .
  
  Lets begin with the racing itself. Crisp lush enviroments that you could get sucked into and explore 
 for hours (if there was such a way to) are fantasticlly rendered. Speeding up and down these tracks 
 along with the insane jumps and winding turns make this game have some of the best racing tracks 
 I have ever witnessed. The racing itself is something else (thats not a bad thing) . While somewhat 
 sloppy controls hinder it a bit, and sometimes unresponsive when it comes to pulling off tricks, 
 when this game runs smoothly, it's one of the most fantastic sites to see and feel. One of my few 
 irks with the game is the fact that it tries to be a realistic racer and an arcadey racer on one 
 disk, something it sucseeds at more often than not mind you, but when it fails, it fails bad. First 
 off, the AI of the other racers (15 others in total which kicks ass) are ridiculously overpowered. 
 Leading on the final stretch, they sometimes will pass by you right as you cross the finish line, 
 wasting the last 20 minutes of your life in a matter of miliseconds. Also, the unfriendly parts 
 of the envirments are unforgiving, and any single mishap at all during any race is more often than 
 not a garuntee for a loss. You are forced to race smart in this game, which honestly this shouldn't 
 have been a game requiring you to, or at least givng you an option. Online racing is fun if you 
 have the right people. Otherwise, its just another cheatfest. 
  
  Pure could go down as one of the best racing games of all time, definetly the best ATV game (Offroad 
 fury included) . But a few things here and there prevent it from reaching gaming nirvana.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Disney takes racing to the next level with 'Pure', a wonderful mix of customization and beautiful 
 looking environments. The graphics in the game look great and they are so rich with detail. The 
 animations look very fluid and smooth as well.
  
  In Pure, an ATV can be fully customized part-by-part from the ground up. New parts and upgrades 
 can all be unlocked by completing races. If starting from scratch is not your thing, you can also 
 choose to create a random ATV for either race or freestyle events.
  
  The difficulty in Pure can be hard at times, but after a few upgrades and lots of practice on the 
 tracks, the races become a lot easier to win. One reason for this is that most of the tracks, especially 
 the longer ones, have short cuts. If you miss a short cut and most of the AI racers take it, you 
 will probably find yourself losing up to four, five, even six places. 
  
  Overall, Pure is a great game to play and is also very nice looking. Pure is just pure fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seaweedopm
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Looks great but all the parts and upgrades is so close to the demo. Rent this first to see if you 
 got your fill.
  I keep going to the main menu because I feel like there should be something else. There is no real 
 feeling of substance. Also, how smooth it looks ends up making me feel like the stages are all 
 the same, just different combinations of hills and / or mountains. I feel like I'm satisfied with 
 the game and I mean in a way that I don't need to play it ever again. I really wish I had rented 
 this one but Starwars was bad, and Brothers in Arms is out tomorrow so I had this or Legos Batman 
 so I went with this. Now I just should have went to blockbuster. Oh well, I guess there is a Halo 
 update right? See you on there... 
  
  Hey, does anyone else notice GameSpot's website running rather slowly? Anytime I click on anything 
 it just hangs and hangs. This happends to me in IE7 and FF3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze_adeel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  it doesnt get any better than this !!! this game is sick man totally awesome!!!
  it rockz from graphics to gameplay and atv customization
  much much better than "mx vs atv series".
 
  
  Grapics are truely awesome with every much detailed. some of the tracks are fun to drive on and 
 beautiful landscape makes it classic and make u feel as if u r in paradise !!!!
  atv's r also very much detailed and while u r driving u will see dust accumilating on the atv and 
 driver !!!
  (even the main menu looks good to me it has some pretty trumendous colours =D)
  
  Gameplay is what i really really liked .when u r behind the wheels the game will really make 
 u feel the raw power of the ATV .the super high air r fun. it has many tricks that can be preformed 
 very easily and the trick system is also good .
  i dont know why but this game reminds me of burnout paradise no doubt it is totally different from 
 burnout but the intense and insane gameplay very much resembles to burnout .
  the only think that backs it frm being a 9/10 or 9.5/10 is the AI .although u compete against 15 
 rivals offline but they dont give too much of a compitation for a veteran player. if in the beginning 
 of the race u get a head then it is very much easy to finish first.
  BUT when u r customizing u ATV thats where u have a lot of options .it may take u half an hour 
 to make an ATV.
  
  this game is a must buy for all gamers bu=ecause u cannot afford to mis thi
  s adrenaline fuEled 
 FUN !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gameboy2k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Hey all. 
  
  Well, I put down 62 bucks and bought this game. Is it all that it's hyped to be? 
  
  Heck yes. 
 
  
  Pure allows you to get into the guts of your ATV and customize it. You can use many different parts 
 that are won from different tracks around the world. The more competitions you win, the more you 
 are rewarded. At first I thought the jumps displayed in the previews were all cutscenes. NO NO 
 NO NO. Those scenes are actual gameplay. Imagine being in New Zealand in mountain country.... going 
 down a dirt hill.... coming up the hill at fast boost speed...... Launching in the air so high.... 
 you see mountains and clouds and such a panoramic view... It's so easy to get caught up in the 
 scenery, while trying to pull of the sickest airs.... Usually you do this by a meter system. 4 different 
 meter types which you progressively collect "juice" to get to. The more Juice, the more advanced 
 the stunt. ON the x360, you ramp up... press A, B or Y... Each being a level better than the previous.... also, 
 while pulling the trick, you tap one of the bumpers to tweak the trick (adding more features to 
 it) . Pull them off successfully, and you get to use a super trick (both bumpers) which you should 
 ONLY pull off on the highest jumps. Along with the trick system, you have boost. The boost actually 
 runs on the same juice meter as the tricks, so use sparingly. 
  
  Bottom line.... This game is sweet. If you want to get the true feel before buying, download the 
 demo on the ps3 or xbox360. I have both, but I went out and bought the 360, since they develop 
 for that console first. But, if you have a PS3, you'll still have fun.
  
  Words wont describe the action. Action describes the action. Get moving!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  this was one game i was eagerly waiting for being a great fan of mx and atv games, i shold say after 
 motostorm this is one hardcore atv stunt game. its solid fun, stunts are real good, great unlockables, stunts 
 unique to characters and ability to change them as and when needed, real awesome technical upgrades 
 which is much more polished, detailed and styled than the mx vs atv series, amazing locales with 
 brilliantly detailed environments, awesome jumps and well made learning curve for the stunts. all 
 series of races, freestyle and sprint is well made and tracks well plot to make each race solid 
 fun. having beaten the game in 10 hours or less i think this game is very short and would have been 
 hats off if it included the mx series and split screen multiplayer. the sound tracks are good, vehicle 
 physics, graphics and vehicle details are brilliant. characters and unique stunt unlocks are good. in 
 short a must buy for any atv fan. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
