-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Quake 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/quake4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Comes with a full version of Quake II.
 Good weapon selection.
 Weapon upgrades make you rethink how you use your arsenal along the way.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frame rate gets downright atrocious in spots.
 Voices are often muffled and difficult to make out.
 Multiplayer sticks too close to an old game's blueprint.
 Vehicle sequences are a little too basic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 7.6, 79 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 3,890 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Raven Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Nov 18, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's a good game in Quake 4, but it's buried under several layers of highly disappointing graphical 
 performance issues. 

  The Quake series of sci-fi first-person shooters has always had a fairly sketchy history on console 
 platforms. It has often represented the pinnacle of PC graphical capabilities, but translating 
 those high-end graphics to affordable, mass-market consoles has usually proved to be a tough process. 
 That trend continues with Quake 4 for the Xbox 360. Despite the 360's stature as the most powerful 
 console on the market, it just can't keep up with this game's demanding visuals (which probably 
 speaks more to the lackluster quality of the game's translation from the PC than to the system's 
 power, judging by how well the 360's two other first-person shooters look by comparison) . Quake 
 4 is a compelling game, but when saddled with an extremely unstable frame rate, it's tough to recommend. 

          The Xbox 360 version of Quake 4 gets pretty ugly in some spots.     

  Contentwise, the Xbox 360 version is similar to its PC counterpart. The single-player campaign 
 is lengthy and fairly varied. The multiplayer has been cut back to an eight-player maximum, as 
 opposed to the PC version's 16-player matches, but that's still enough to make the maps feel populated. 
 The only real difference is in visual quality and performance. When running on a modern PC, Quake 
 4 looks fantastic, using the Doom 3 engine to display the alien world of Stroggos in a sharp, defined 
 level of detail. A quick look up at the sky or at most of the game's wall and ground textures shows 
 that the Xbox 360 version has significantly muddier textures. In addition, the frame rate is sort 
 of a mess. Any time the action gets heated in a large or complex-looking area, the game starts 
 to spin down to a surprisingly low frame rate, regardless of whether you're playing in HD resolution 
 or on a regular TV. At some points, it gets so bad that the whole game starts to slow down, as 
 well. You'll know when that's happening because the rate of fire on your weapons slows way, way 
 down. Even when there's no action onscreen, just viewing the environments is enough to make the 
 game run at a noticeably choppy rate. While there are still some cool-looking areas, the frame 
 rate troubles drag down the entire experience.  

  Quake 4 also comes with a bonus disc, packed right into the case in a paper sleeve. The majority 
 of the bonus disc contains a variety of trailers and gameplay footage from the game's development. 
 The key inclusion, however, is a fully playable Xbox 360 version of Quake II. While it doesn't 
 get online, it supports up to four players via split-screen and 16 over system link. It plays quite 
 well with the Xbox 360 controller, and the silky-smooth frame rate is in stark contrast with Quake 
 4. It's a very cool bonus.  

  The three previous Quake games have all had very little to do with one another. The first game's 
 story almost felt more like a retelling of Doom, dealing with inappropriately opened portals that 
 spew out all sorts of horrific demons. Quake II ditched that storyline in favor of an Earth-versus-alien 
 conflict that had you crash-landing on the alien homeworld in search of revenge. Quake III Arena 
 was multiplayer focused, with no true single-player storyline other than that a wide collection 
 of warriors -- some taken from the Doom and Quake games -- had been pulled out of their own timelines 
 and into this futuristic battle arena. Quake 4 doubles back and picks up where Quake II left off. 
 That nameless space marine from Quake II has apparently killed the Makron, the leader of the Strogg 
 forces, and now it's up to you to get in there and try to finish the job. But, of course, things 
 aren't quite what they seem.  

  In Quake 4, you play as a space marine named Matthew Kane, who has recently been assigned to Rhino 
 Squad. In keeping with first-person shooter storyline tradition, Kane doesn't speak, but the marines 
 around you will more than make up for the lack of chatter coming out of Kane's lips. You're the 
 new guy, and some of the squad's even betting that you won't even survive for one day. With the 
 Makron assumed dead, your squad is taking part in an operation to take advantage of the disarray 
 and mop up the rest of the enemy forces on the Strogg planet. But your dropship gets hit and comes 
 down hard, killing a large chunk of your squadmates at the opening of the game. From there, you'll 
 pull yourself up out of the muck and get down to business.  

  Eventually, your squad will get extracted back to a capital ship for reassignment. You'll get to 
 explore the ship and meet some of its crew, and then you're back out on a new mission designed 
 to disrupt the Strogg communication network. And the story continues from there. While the story 
 itself isn't particularly gripping, it's designed well enough to keep you interested in what's 
 happening. There's also a potentially interesting plot twist in the game that, unfortunately, was 
 revealed by id Software almost immediately, when the company first started talking about and showing 
 off the game. It's also the crux of a trailer that plays if you leave the game on the title screen 
 for a few seconds. We won't repeat it here, in case you've managed to stay away, because we have 
 to imagine that the twist would have been a lot more interesting if you didn't see it coming. Just 
 know that a few interesting things happen over the course of the game's 10-to-15-hour campaign, 
 but nothing that happens totally changes the way the game is played or anything like that.  

          Matthew Kane goes through a lot in this alien-infested first-person shooter.     

 
  In the end, first-person shooters still come down to their armory. In Quake 4, you'll be armed 
 with a fairly standard collection of weapons that may have originated in the Quake II universe -- but 
 that doesn't mean they're all identical. You'll start the game with only a blaster, which has infinite 
 ammo and can be charged up for a more powerful shot. But this quickly gives way to the machine 
 gun, which is versatile enough that you'll probably be relying on it throughout the entire game. 
 That's mostly because the machine gun has a flashlight mounted on it. Even though the game isn't 
 trying to spook you by having enemies jump out of the shadows, seeing better is always a good thing. 
 Plus, lighting up some dark corners is a good way to find extra ammo and armor.     

   

  You'll eventually get a shotgun, a grenade launcher, the energy-powered hyperblaster, a 
 rocket launcher, the railgun, a nailgun, the lightning gun, and so on, up to the game's version 
 of the BFG, the dark matter gun. Right off the bat, most of these weapons aren't much handier than 
 the stock machine gun. Reloading the shotgun takes too long, the nailgun has a long, chaingun-style 
 spin-up time, and so on. Along the way, you'll run into marines who can upgrade your weapons. Your 
 shotgun will eventually be modified to be a clip-fed weapon, making reloading a snap. The nailgun 
 gains the ability to lock onto targets and shoot homing nails that make it behave almost identically 
 to the needler from Halo. The lightning gun upgrade makes it chain off and attack other enemies 
 standing near your target. The hyperblaster upgrade makes its shots bounce off of walls. And the 
 railgun gets a power upgrade that makes it much more useful. The rocket launcher gets an auto-loader 
 that loads up three rockets at a time, letting you fire them off in faster succession. While you'll 
 still rely on that machine gun in a lot of situations, most of the weapons come into their own 
 later in the game, giving you some good, tactical decisions to make as you fight.  

          The online action in Quake 4 is functional, but not very exciting.     

  You'll also 
 fight alongside some other marines at various points in the game. While they aren't perfect, they 
 do seem to fight a lot better than you'd expect from squadmates that are completely out of your 
 control. They also seem to take a lot more damage than you'd expect, but that doesn't mean they're 
 invincible. If you let one of the game's key characters catch too many hot ones, they'll go down, 
 and you'll lose as well. Incidental marines that you encounter along the way, however, are free 
 to die without any real penalty, but seeing them through safely often gives you some achievement 
 points. Some marines are flagged as medics or engineers, who will heal you and repair your armor, 
 if asked. Fighting alongside other marines brings some variety to the game, as do the game's vehicles. 
 You'll get to pilot a hovertank and a mech, and at one point, you'll work the gun on a tram to 
 defend it from enemy attackers. The vehicles heal themselves over time, just like the shield system 
 in Halo, which makes these sequences very easy. Still, rolling around in the game's vehicles and 
 blasting stuff is decent, and the sequences are short enough to not get in the way.  

  While the single-player game doesn't feel like a throwback, firing up the multiplayer side of the 
 game is like going on an archaeological dig. As you dig, you'll unearth a take on Quake III Arena's 
 multiplayer for up to eight players. While the goal was clearly to duplicate Quake III Arena's 
 fantastic deathmatch, the feel of the game isn't quite right, and aside from the inclusion of a 
 few maps from previous Quake games, it doesn't manage to pull off the nostalgic feel it was probably 
 going for. Instead, it's sort of like a relic, delivering the barebones standard modes of deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, one-on-one, and two versions of capture the flag. The game's frame rate troubles 
 rear their head here, as well, which sucks some of the fun out of the experience, especially because 
 it's designed to move at a much faster rate than the single-player.  

  The weapons from the single-player side are included online, but they're streamlined to not force 
 you to reload your weapons. The level design is full of Quake III-style jump pads, and you'll have 
 the same sort of air control that you had over your airborne combatant in Quake III. Even the announcer 
 sounds virtually identical to the one from Quake III and makes the same kind of commentary you've 
 already heard a billion times if you were a Quake III fanatic. The frantic multiplayer has its 
 moments, but it's disappointing how little the multiplayer has evolved.  

          If you have a reasonably powerful PC, you're better off playing this game there.     

 
  Quake 4 has good sound that helps highlight the experience. The weapons sound appropriately tough, 
 which is always key for a shooter. But the game is much more than the sounds of weapons and explosions. 
 The voice work is sharp and believable and helps give a little more life to the marines around 
 you, though the voices seem really quiet when compared to the rest of the action. Additionally, 
 sometimes you'll hear different radio chatter repeat frequently, especially if you're taking your 
 sweet time getting to that next objective. Also, sometimes you'll get radio transmissions in the 
 middle of a fight, and the voice gets drowned out. Fortunately, that speech is never too important. 
 The game's music is understated, but it fits in with the atmosphere. There are even a few musical 
 stabs in the game that play when you open a door and see an enemy on the other side, almost as 
 if it's attempting to poke fun at Doom 3's constant "what's behind the next door?" scare tactics. 

  Quake 4 could have been a great game, but the performance issues are so heavy that they have a 
 negative impact across the board. The gameplay suffers both online and off because you often can't 
 see exactly what's going on. With the Xbox 360 launch already stacked with quality first-person 
 shooting, Quake 4 sits squarely at the bottom of the pile.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (363 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gumprecht
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  My first time playing Quake 4 is exactly like my first time playing Dead Rising or Crackdown. My 
 parents would get me the latest issue of Xbox Magazine and every now and again, the demo disc would 
 introduce me to a game that would suck away countless hour after hour of my life. I really like 
 Quake 4 even though it got mixed receptions at the 360's launch. Although it isn't the be all and 
 end all of FPS games for the Xbox 360, it still is a game that's worth investing time into. If 
 you are familiar with classic first person shooters from ID, then you'll feel right at home because 
 gameplay wise, Quake 4 feels like a game from the early 3D PC gaming days that you never managed 
 to play until recently. 
  
  I have had alot of fun Playing Quake 4. It's a shooter, Like Half-Life or Halo 3, that I can pick 
 up and play without re-hauling the control scheme. People complain endlessly about frame-rate drops 
 but in my experiences, I have never had a framerate below 45 FPS, so Quake 4 ran decently on my 
 launch unit 360. I do notice it on occasion, but It's so few and far between that It can be ignored. 
 It should also be noted that I have only seen framerate drops when more then about 20 enemies are 
 on-screen and moving So things have to get hectic before you start to see sputtering framerates. 
 Most of the framerate complaints were mainly said around the time when Quake 4 came out which was 
 soon after the Xbox 360 launch. I remember next-gen gaming with the 360 was so exciting and such 
 a big deal that I think people got 360 games expecting the shaw-shank redemption of computer gaming 
 entertainment so that meant any minor flaw meant that the game would get bashed on message boards 
 and frowned upon in reviews, regardless of how good the game actually was. Now that all the framerate 
 issues are all discussed, let's move on to the best part of any first person shooter, The weapons 
 ! You start with the basic pistol, assault rifle, shotgun, etc. but then you get creative weapons 
 like the gatling gun styled Nail-Gun and the . In many first person shooters when you get weapons 
 and that's it, they sit in your inventory. Before big events in Quake 4, Marines will upgrade your 
 weapons. One Marine gives you a double sized clip for your assault rifle so instaed of 40 bullets 
 to a clip, you get 80. About an hour after you get the assault rifle upgrade, a tech solider upgrades 
 your nail-gun to reload twice as fast, and do more damage. Also, all the weapons have pros and 
 cons to them. Have you ever played a shooter, got a whole bunch of weapons, then you got a shotgun 
 or rocket launcher and stopped using any other gun. In Quake 4, you have to use the right tool 
 for the job. The shotgun kills anything within 2 to 5 shots, but it takes almost a full minute 
 reload, and when you have three strogg in front of you, waiting is out of the question. The nailgun 
 is a great bullet hail storm of destruction but it takes 3 seconds for the gatling gear to warm 
 up and reload times are a good 8 seconds. The assault rifle is an effective, automatic, quick-reloading 
 gun, but it does little damage compared to the rest of your inventory. This element makes the gameplay 
 a fresh experience and in multiplayer, nobody can spam a particular weapon for too long.
  
  The Plot of the Quake series is a tad scattered. To help add to the confusion, all the sequals 
 are either improperly named or misleadingly named. Okay to start off chronologically, Quake 1 is 
 best sumed up in alot of Gamespot reader reviews of Quake 4. Although they didn't say it as blunt 
 as I'm about to, but basically, Quake 1 is a Doom wad with a full 3-D engine grafted on to make 
 it stand out from the glut of 2.5-D Doom Clones. Quake 2 is where a real story forms, with a full 
 on war with the Strogg (an alien race on Mars) and the Human Race. At the end of Quake 2, the protagonist 
 kills the Strogg's leader, The Makron. Then Quake 3: Arena came out and it was a Multiplayer mod 
 of Quake 2 that didn't advance the plot at all. Then Finally, Quake 4 takes off at the end of Quake 
 2. The Makron is dead and the Strogg are not too pleased. A problem the Strogg are facing is that 
 after the death of the Makron, they are now dwindling due nobody knowing what's going on, and with 
 that, the war has become a "ground-pounders war" until the end. Now, I spent a whole sunday looking 
 up plot outlines on all of the Quake games to do the "Story" segment of this review. It was sort 
 of easy for me because I'm well educated about games but imagine the hard time casual gamers would 
 have trying to learn Quake's plot. The Quake games are either regarding as sequals and are in-canon, 
 Mods that ID wanted to make, or counted as irrelevent. Casual gamers wouldn't know to where to 
 start. It was hard for me to follow the series' plot because, in 2006 I started playing the Quake 
 series with Quake 4 but I only owned the Xbox Magazine Demo. Then a week ago I got the full version 
 and later became curious about the previous games. However, If you are playing Quake 4 for it's 
 plot, ID had the courtesy to add a bonus disc to Quake 4 that contains a complete copy of Quake 
 2 for the Xbox 360. Every Quake 4 comes with the Bonus disc so It's not a "limited edition" type 
 of thing. 
  
  Quake 4 doesn't have any music, or atleast I didn't hear any, but the lack of music enhances the 
 atmosphere by making the sound effects stand out more. There are sections in the game where you 
 are totally secluded from any other marines, and you'll be walking through darkened hallways and 
 then in the corner of your eye, you'll see a huge 10 foot tall cyber-demon esqe thing sprint at 
 you swinging a rusty arm sword at you. This is alarming because Quake 4, unlike most FPS games, 
 doesn't have fast sounding music when you get attacked. The only clue you get to any attack is 
 either a huge Strogg clogging it's feet closer and closer to your location, or a Strogg foot solider 
 yelling a tribal call directly to the left of you. So you either have to listen for foot beats 
 or a zombie in a metal suit yelling "STREE-TE-GOOO". This would be a tad less scary if some of 
 the enviornments weren't so dark. Don't take that the wrong way, the levels aren't at all Doom 
 3 dark, but things can get pretty shady. To add to the stress of taking on numerous Strogg in the 
 dark, the only weapons that have flashlights attached to them are your weak little pistol and your 
 assault rifle. So, If your assault rifle is out of ammo and your in a dark section of the game, 
 good luck ! Thankfully, the entire game isn't focused on tiny, darkened corridoors that are crammed 
 with things that could break your spine if they looked at you hard. Those who love survival horror 
 and hate survival horror will be pleased with this game.
  
  So, at the end of the day, Quake 4 is a great game that any classic FPS fan or ID fan will enjoy. 
 Quake 4 stands out from the first 3 Quakes in terms of realism, length, and the fact that there 
 are more then hues of brown for the color scheme. Don't beleive all the bad things that were said 
 about this game at the 360's launch. The hype of next gen left a bad taste in everyone's mouth 
 about Quake 4. Quake 4, being a launch title, can be be used for 10 bucks and brand new, it'll 
 set you back no more than $20. So, it's fun, cheap, can be found commonly in used bins, and another 
 fun little tidbit is that the Xbox 360 version of Quake 2 has it's own 9 acheivements. What the 
 total number of points that can be obtained through Quake 2 is beyond me, but they're their for 
 Die-Hard Quake fans and Gamerscore whores. With all things said, Quake 4 gets a solid 8 out of 
 10.
  
  -Addison Gumprecht- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyOwl411
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 14, 2009 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I got this game in a bargain bin... and I think that I understand why. The game fails on many levels. 
 The weapons all feel stupid. The Hyperblaster, machine gun, and the nail gun all feel the same. 
 Different bullets don't really change the fact they are the same. The enemies can sometimes be 
 interesting, but the AI is pretty crappy. A strogg once jumped in front of one of my rockets. Good 
 job. I guess these losers don't get any military training. Does the main boss just tell all the 
 soldiers to 'CHARGE!!!!' with no tactics whatsoever? The best thing they can do is crouch. Geniuses. 
 They story is very dull and boring. It broke up the pacing and bored me to death. This game is 
 also very buggy. One bullet flys through the air and makes this game slow to a crawl. Some battles 
 slow so badly that you can basically close your eyes and pray that you can servive this glichy 
 mess. Seriously, don't play this game. Instead play with a yo yo or someting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Dark_Palladin-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 7:38 am PT
Review:  I've always disliked shooters on the consles. Why? Because they feel trapped inside. From time 
 to time, I feel if though I'm trapped inside the levels with no way out. The reason why I have 
 games like Prey and Doom 3 on the PC is that, even when the game ends, the PC supplies you with 
 an editor, which allows you to continue your exciting adventure however you'd like, so you never 
 get that 'trapped inside levels' feeling.
  
  
  That's why I wanted Quake 4 on the PC. I wanted to create my own maps, my own strogg, and just 
 about anything I could. Unfourtunetly, I couldn't wait any longer to not have the game, and after 
 seeing it in the stores for the 360, I immediatly grabbed it. When comparing it to my PC shooters 
 (Orange Box, Prey, Doom 3, etc.) Quake 4 is a huge disapointment that really could own on the PC, 
 given the lousy framerate and the mushy textures. But I guess, I'll have to live with it.... : (
 
  
  
  Anyways, lets get back to the actual review. Quake 4 takes off where the Quake 2 left off. That 
 lone space marine from Quake 2 who could supernaturally speed through levels, managed to, all by 
 him/her/itself (depending on the character you create) destory the makron, who is the leader of 
 a cybernetically enhanced alien race raiding earth, called the Strogg. Now that the Strogg are 
 potentially wounded, you, as a speechless marine named Matthew Kane, and with the help of your 
 sqaud, must re-break into the Strogg homeplanet defenses to finish the makon, who seemingly revived 
 himself. And in between that, you'll be blasting Strogg units using blasters, shotguns, hyperblasters, 
 and a few weapon that can be upgraded during the game and make little similarty to Quake 2. And 
 that's pretty much it for the storyline.
  
  
  The main point that differents Quake 2's storyline from this one is that, eventually, you are captured 
 and TURNED into one of the Strogg for use in their army. However, they fail to erase your memory, 
 so you find yourself for a good majority of the game as half-human half-cybernetic alien. This 
 is tremedously revealed in the trailer. It's also kind of disturbing and really makes the rest 
 of the game feel icky at times, given that the rest of the game plays like this.
  
  
  
  The level design is a huge flaw. The framerate gets really ugly when you look at certain things, 
 like lights or nexus tubes. And after the time when you are turned into a supersoldier, the rest 
 of the levels look like washed out research labs that have HUGE abysses that just make you feel 
 sick and dizzy at times. The Multiplayer lags horribly, but its fun and has very few framerate 
 issues, although its hard to find people and it still feels trapped inside to have to play the 
 same 6 maps over and over again without hope of pulling an editor out and making new ones.
  
  
  
  Quake 4's single player is absoulutly horrible and the levels look practically the 
 same, but the multiplayer makes it worth playing. Every copy of Quake 4 for the 360 even includes 
 a bonus disc, which includes trailers, demos, and ulitmatly a full verison of Quake 2, which is 
 probably the most fun. But please, do as Gamespot says. Get this game for PC. It will run considerably 
 better. Trust me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lemmy2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  Really straight forward shooter that doesn't pretend to be anything but a shooter. 
  
  I really enjoyed playing this game. I beat it twice, and will probably play it again in the future. 
 I only experienced the slow down once in both run throughs, so I'm assuming the issue has been 
 resolved. Still one big issue remained.... the game likes to freeze during loads!!! This happened 
 a lot, and I had to restart my 360 everytime. More of an annoying issue than one that ruins the 
 game.
  
  Still the game has a lot of cool weapons, cool enemies, and some really cool cinimatic moments. 
 The enemies behave intelligently, and can offer a good challenge. I found a lot of the bosses really 
 easy though..... but I had teh same issue with Doom 3. 
  
  Still if you're looking for a good, solid FPS to tide you over...... one that isn't trying to be 
 innovative, but just trying to offer a fun experience, with some great cinimatic moments, good 
 characters, cool environments, and fun gameplay, then pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhoy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  What can i say i love this game its fun and challenging when you get through the game and start 
 to get more enemies to blow holes in and them fly off bridges and blow up or what not. The vehicles 
 are good to play in as you see some of the toughest enemies to fight on foot just perish before 
 you as you fire at a single enemy with two massive machine guns and he just falls to peices. The 
 game just starts off fun and entertaining as you get some cool guns just to start off with but 
 overall quake 4 is a really awesome game of all shooters which have no point what so ever quake 
 4 is yet another excuse to make a game where you blow everything to peices and dont stop firing 
 till you have no bullets left and then when you run out of bullets you just switch to another gun 
 and start firing with that one instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chroniclehobbit
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 continues the story from the second installment of the series. Human kind is still defending 
 itself against the Strogg hordes. The game itself is a lot of fun, and gets your adrenaline pumping 
 at some spots. Some very noticeable graphical slip ups are visible here and there, and the voice 
 work gets difficult to make out in some spots as well. Maybe it's just me, but I can't really tell 
 the difference between the two versions. I see a very similar graphics style in this game that 
 I did in Doom 3 actually. Although, they are 2 very different games. I like that you can go to 
 a team mate and receive healing and armor. Another tweak of game play that I enjoyed was being 
 able to shoot with a flash attached to some of your weapons. 
  
  I rate this game an 8.0 because I don't really see a strong distinction between the PC version 
 and the X360 version. It's a lot of fun to play and it's an honorable continuation of the series.
 
  
  Have fun playing the game if you're interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markuspunker
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  I remember how fun and enjoyable the earlier quake titles were. they were addictive and had me playing 
 for hours on end. i was only a kid at the time but still, i enjoy them. dont really care for the 
 stroylines cos to me it was a better looking Doom at the time.
  
  over 10 years later i wanted to get hold of quake 4 as i thought it would be a great game to play........ yeah, 
 right........ unfortunatly, ID just dont know what to do with the quake franchise, and they are 
 just killing it. i downloaded the demo of quake wars and that really really sucked. the graphics 
 were poor and just shows how risky a port is. the same applies to quake 4.
  
  the graphics are nice but it just doesnt run smoothly enough for it to be enjoyable on the 360 
 and i could only play for a few hours. not to mention the shoddy storyline, a hyped up bunch of 
 redneck marines running around and so on, bla bla bla.
  
  the game was nice to play for a while, but it got pretty repetitive and, although the originals 
 are classics, does not deliver anything new to next-gen gaming. the best part i found was going 
 through the process of being transformed into the enemy, but got annoyed with the constant run 
 in all-guns-blazing. which is expected in FPS titles i know, but it was not exciting enough to 
 keep me playing for longer. 
  
  and in all honesty, i got the game for the bonus quake 2 disc, which did not come with quake 4 
 as i got it second hand but that cant be helped. 
  
  its a big shame when publishers realease new titles such as Quake 4 and it has few thrills, leaving 
 nothing but a game franchise choking and eventually ruin everything they had, this game could have 
 been alot better, but as it is also a port from the PC its glitchy, boring and unfinished.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhalamar425
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  I have always loved the Quake series (specifically Quake 3 Arena) and the first time I played the 
 demo version of this game was on a largely underpowered PC. I could tell I was playing a great 
 game, I just had to make too many graphical compromises to get the game running anywhere near "good".
 
  
  Cut forward to fairly recently, I got an Xbox 360 and saw this game sitting on the shelf at Gamestop 
 for $9.99 pre-owned. I nabbed it instantly.
  
  I'm not going to get into the whole story for Quake 4, you can find that anywhere.
  
  I have 
 some reservations about using a controller playing a first person shooter. I have always been a 
 keyboard and mouse kinda guy. Using the keyboard back in the day to play Wolfenstein 3D and Doom, 
 moving up to using the mouse in conjunction with the keyboard for the original Quake and Duke Nukem 
 3D and onwards. The control using the controller for this game is perfect, the layout is in such 
 a way you can do everything but switch weapons in a natural way. Just aiming has never felt right, 
 but that is a minor gripe.
  
  The sound is excellent and really gives you a sense that you're in this huge battle. It doe have 
 its faults though. Mainly in the voices being a little muffled at times. I could understand it 
 if they were somewhat muffled in the middle of a battle, but sometimes they're a little hard to 
 make out even when there is nothing going on. The weapons sound huge and powerful, the environment 
 effects are excellent. The screams of pain from both enemies and your allies are great. You really 
 feel kinda bad when a CPU controlled character you've been playing a lot of the game with bites 
 the dust.
  
  Graphically is where this game suffers the most. The graphics, for the most part, are excellent. 
 Some of the low resolution textures kinda hurt the overall feel (like the ground, you'll notice 
 it in the first playable sequence in the game) , but overall the environments and enemies look excellent. 
 This game is powered by the awesome Doom 3 engine, so that's a natural fit. But they were in such 
 a rush to get this game out for the system's launch there are major frame rate issues, even when 
 nothing is happening. And it starts with the opening sequence when the bodies and debris are flying 
 across the screen in open space. You can see them just barely jerk along. And it does that throughout 
 the entire game, even down to almost a slideshow style effect when things are REALLY happening. 
 For the price I paid for it, it's a sacrifice I'm willing to deal with, because although the issues 
 are pretty bad at times and almost always there, it still ran a lot better than my PC could run 
 it.
  
  The multiplayer is another slam for this game from what I've read. Quake 3 Arena is the single 
 BEST deathmatch based game I have ever played with Unreal Tournament coming in a close second. 
 I LOVE that style, and for better or worse, this game's multiplayer is IDENTICAL to it's predecessor. 
 Fast, furious and simple. I even bought another copy of the game for a friend of mine so she could 
 play against me because I think it's so much fun. But it's not for everyone, it's not the slower 
 paced militiristic style gameplay like in Halo or Call of Duty. This is fast paced and in your 
 face, even if the frame rate issues unfortunately dampen it somewhat.
  
  Now as I said before, the first time I played this game was on a largely underpowered computer. 
 Cut to now, and I have a computer capable of running the game at a glorious resolution and spectacular 
 frame rate and that is where I play it now, except when I play my friend in multiplayer on the 
 360.
  
  If your computer isn't quite up to spec, the Xbox 360 version of this game, even with it's issues, 
 is still a great ride and fun game. And a lot cheaper than upgrading your computer to play. I would 
 highly suggest it if you're in that position. Other than that, if you've got enough power to run 
 it, either buy or stick to the PC version. Even now I don't regret getting this game, and I will 
 always love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 28, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  OK.. lets start by saying that Quake 4 is an awesome game, i really liked it when i played the 
 PC version a couple of years ago, after the release of Doom 3.
  
  The fact is... that graphics ARENT smoothly at all on the 360. I mean, you will get a decent frame 
 rate while in rooms, elevators, and such small and closed places with no graphical exposition. 
 BUT when we go to the out door where there are several buildings and enemies things start to go 
 ugly. Frame rate goes to hell.
  
  Thats why i chose such a "low" score for this game. But if i were to score it for real... i mean 
 .. the PC version i would have chose a 9.
  
  i wont talk about the gameplay , sound music, etc.. its a pretty out dated game but it rocks anyways. 
 The only purpose of this review is to stand out the terrible graphical performance of the 360 version 
 ;)
  
  Cheers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlashDementia3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Quake 4:
  Remember the good o' days of playing Quake 1, 2, and Quake Arena? Well I don't. I've only played 
 1 and 2 and they are quite fun. Quake 4 is different though. Did you play Doom 1, 2, Doom 3 or 
 Doom 3 R. o. E.? I did. It seems like those graphics that were very good on the original xbox isn't 
 getting a good welcome on this game that was released upon the arrival of the 360. This is Doom 
 3, but subtract the freaky and add some more space in your battlefields. Get ready to be blown 
 away... Or uh not, I'm not so sure.
  
  The story. So you're Matthew Kane, of Rhino Squad. Fighting that strange alien race you see in 
 a lot of games, but here they're know as the Strogg. In Quake 2, which this game follows, and well... 
 Quake 2 is like Quake 1 and Quake 4 is Quake 2, you can leave 1 and 3 out. (But seriously, play 
 1 and 3.) These are the only two Quake games that make up the story. Kane had success destroying 
 the Strogg leader in Quake 2. Now he's going to stop them.
  
  The Multi-Player. Besides Quake 3's great multi-player. This offers a bit less. Make that a lot 
 less. The have many maps and game modes, but the thing is, the Quake 4 community is dead. Seems 
 like Matthew Kane didn't only stop the Strogg. One achievement is being ranked number 1 in the 
 world. I mean... That's going a little too far. But when you actually do find a match, it is very 
 entertaining.
  
  Weapons from the old Quake games appear in Q4. A wide vary of weapons is at your disposal. Blaster, 
 Dark Matter Gun, Grenade Launcher, Hyper Blaster, Lightning Gun, Nail Gun, Rail Gun, and all those 
 other types of guns. Use these to blast things into bits and pieces in this short game.
  
  This, being a First Person Shooter, is well, quite interesting. Don't expect your Halo or most 
 well known, story lines. This is just another generic story, but with fun game play and a few glitches 
 here and there. This is generic done right.
  
  Graphics, I feel for this game, because I myself have bad outdated graphics. Well these aren't 
 that bad and had o. k. lighting. It used the same engine as Doom 3. Which I found myself playing 
 immediately after. It's something that kills many games. But once you see past it, you realize 
 that this game is worth the little money it cost now.
  
  The sound. I found it quite good actually, I didn't like the actors. They seemed, not very into 
 it. But there is nothing going bad around this area.
  
  Graphics: Characters/Animation: 4/10
  Scenery: 6/10
  Story: 5/10
  Controls: 9/10
  SFX: 
 9/10
  Multi-player: 8/10
  Replay Value: 7/10
  
  It's worth it, especially when you get Quake 2 as a bonus when you buy Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oskuuu
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Without Quake 2 in the package, i would have given this 6,0. This game is not bad, but it ain't 
 good either.. okay it's graphics aren't bad for 2005, but the graphics slowing the game in some 
 moments are bad. Also why was this released on Xbox360, coz older one could have runned this "Doomuake" 
 as good.
  
  As already said in the GameSpot's review the sounds are getting mixed in senseless crap, if thats 
 not bad enough there is no subtitles option, which alone would have helped a lot. I think the game 
 had a story too but i don't know coz i never heard any of it.
  
  I usually like even bad FPS games, but Quake 4 was the only one in many years that gave me the 
 feeling "why the hell am i playing this?". This game is worth 9,90 but no more, if someone payed 
 more from this i pity tha fool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wally2nv
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  nothing to see here people just doom 3 x2, quake is just another one of those FPS games where you 
 run around shooting things, quake isn't all about brain dead gameplay it also has a few shocking 
 moments in the game and some things that other FPS don't have and thats vehicles im not saying 
 all FPS have vehicles but seeing quake 4 have vehicles is something special. There arnt that many 
 boss fights in quake 4 but sometimes there are these sequences that are cool and the ending isn't 
 all that flashy too but it also makes you think that there is defiantly gonna be a quake 5. so i 
 don't think that u need to play the other quakes to know what happened in the time line quake 4 
 has its own story. Some of the guns ARE ACCTULLY FROM DOOM 3
  in one point in the game you get to see some guns from doom 3, so yeah quake 4 is probably doom 
 3. Overall quake isnt that much of a bad game i recommend it to anyone who wants a run and gun game 
 or just wants a remake of doom 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeBentley
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Quake IV. It rates a feh
  
  Quake IV is a direct sequal to Quake II and ignores Quake I and III. You play Matthew "The exact 
 same generic uber-soldier badass who has appeared in every single FPS since Doom" Kane, a longterm 
 vet of humanity's war with the Strogg, a race of interstellar bad guys who use conquered species 
 for spare parts, not totally unlike the Borg.
  
  The game picks up only hours after the ending of Quake II. The hero of the original game has assassinated 
 the Strogg's leader and destroyed their air defenses, allowing the humans to launch an invasion 
 of the Strogg homeworld. As with all FPS's set in the future we don't ask why we would send in 
 thousand of ground troops and wouldn't just nuke the planet from orbit.
  
  The game is fairly nice looking, but honestly it really looks only slighter better then Doom 3 
 for the original Xbox (Both games use the same graphics engine.) That and it shares the same graphical 
 style as Doom 3, a lot of bio-mechanics, a lot of corridors, a lot of shadow, (although not nearly 
 as bad as Doom 3 which existed in some sort of future where apparently there is a horrible lightbulb 
 shortage.) , although Quake IV does offer a few wide open outdoor levels and isn't the constant 
 corridor crawl that Doom 3 was. But for about 80% of the game you could throw up screenshots from 
 both games side by side and if someone told you it was the same game you wouldn't argue with them.
 
  
  The odd thing is that while it could pass for a particularly nice looking Xbox game, the frame 
 rate chugs a lot of the time and never becomes razor smooth. When ID was able to shoehorn the technogasm 
 that was Doom 3 onto the 733 MHz 64 Megabyte Xbox without anything lost in transition it was impressive. 
 There is no excuse for a very similar looking and playing game to chug on a system that is more 
 powerful then 99% of the gaming PCs on the market.
  
  For the first two levels the game could not be more generic. You're a member of a squad of Marines 
 who are part of the initial landing on Strogg. You, of course, start off with a pistol. I would 
 loved to have seen the briefing on that one. "Marines you mankind's last hope against a brutal 
 enemy. Here's a pistol and 10 rounds of ammunition. Good luck."
  
  But soon enough you start to pick up an incredibly generic and standard compliment of FPS weaponry, 
 the shotgun, the machine gun, the rocket launcher, the grenade launcher, the needlegun, a rail 
 gun sniping weapon, and the required giant ball of energy gun, the Dark Matter Gun. It is so not 
 the BFG. I mean.. the big ball of energy it shoots is a totally different color then the big ball 
 of energy the BFG shoots. And they have a different name and everything. Clearly not the exact 
 same damn thing.
  
  The enemies are also totally different from the ones in Doom 3. The enemies in Doom 3 a mixture 
 of flesh and machinery created by demons. The enemies in Quake IV are a mixture of flesh and machinery 
 created by aliens. See? Totally different. Furthermore the zombies in Quake IV wear orange jumpsuits, 
 where the zombies in Doom 3 wore green coveralls. See? Totally different.
  
  Now for Quake IV's big twist. About 1/4th the way into the game, you are captured by the Strogg 
 and assimilated.... er I mean Stroggified.
  
  Now the cool news is the Stroggification scene is one of the coolest scenes in a FPS in a while. 
 It's a very disturbing scene in which your character is sent down a series of conveyor belts and 
 objected to room after room of genuinely horrible looking and sounding "augmentation" sequences 
 in which your body is enhanced with Strogg technology. Seriously this one scene makes the game 
 worth a rental at least.
  
  Now near the end of the process the rest of your squad busts in and rescues you before the Strogg 
 can erase your brain and fully turn you into one of their soldiers. So now you're fighting the 
 Strogg as a Strogg.
  
  Cool premise huh? Yeah it would be if they did anything with it. Yeah after that awesome scene 
 in which you are given all these cool techno-upgrades... nothing happens. It does not effect the 
 gameplay in one little iota. You gain no new abilities. You receive no new weapons or powers. Nothing 
 happens. You're health has a maximum limit of 125 instead of 100. Whoopty. Later you have to fight 
 another Marine who was Stroggified and he got turned into a giant walking battletank with rocket 
 launchers for arms. Why didn't I get cool stuff like that?
  
  The only other thing is that after the Stroggification you can read and understand the Strogg language. 
 Strogg language, which prior to the augmentation was nothing more the random snarls and barks, 
 and Strogg signage, which before was gibberish, is now perfect English to you. Again this would 
 really be cool if they actually did anything with it. Like I wasn't going to realize that the little 
 button next to the elevator was the elevator call button if I couldn't read it. I mean could they 
 of at least had one scene were your squad is ready to go open a door that has a sign above that 
 only you can read that says "Danger: Strogg Super Duper Living Weapon Storage Room" or something?
 
  
  But the strangest thing is that none of your fellow Marines so much as seem to notice that you 
 are now a Strogg. You walk right up on Marines who seconds before were mowing down Strogg after 
 Strogg and they don't even seem to care that you look exactly like them! Outside of some rather 
 contrived plot points ("Kane you're the only one who can walk down this hallway because the security 
 system will see you as a Strogg. So walk down the hallway and turn the security system off so... 
 the rest of us can walk down the hall.") and some incidental dialog the fact that your now the 
 enemy seems lost on everybody. It's like if Picard had resumed command of the Enterprise in full 
 Locutus getup and no one noticed.
  
  There is also two vehicles you pilot, a tank and a walking mech is completely different from the 
 one in Aliens. And by completely different I mean its the exact same thing.
  
  The game is also short, it took me longer to beat the Doom 3 expansion pack.
  
  There is a 
 multiplayer mode that... well you played it. If you played Quake III Arena you've played it. The 
 Quake IV multiplayer. And you've played a lot better version of it, despite the graphic upgrade.
 
  
  One very cool feature though, the complete version of Quake II free. Very nice. Classic old school 
 FPS action.
  
  I mean the game isn't horrible. Like I said most FPS players can beat it in a long weekend so its 
 definitely worth a rental at least. It's got nice, tight, responsive controls, good sound, looks 
 good most of the time... but you've played it. There is not one point in the game where anything 
 surprises you or makes you go "Well never seen that before." You've seen it all before. A lot. 
 If Quake IV was the first FPS you've ever played you'd probably enjoy it a lot more, but if you've 
 played pretty much any FPS in the last 10 years then you've played 90% of Quake IV
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: REGAMER-X
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a First Person Shooter than it highly criticized by game reviews for it's frame rate 
 flaws, and other various aspects that they pay more attention to than the game itself. Quake 4 
 plants the player as Matthew Kane, a new member to the Rhino squad, and the savior of Earth from 
 Quake II. Quake 4 starts with Rhino squad crash landing on the Stogg planet known as Stroggos, 
 where Kane and the other surviving Marines try to make their way to the Hannabil's landing zone 
 before they're killed. Quake 4's story takes you to many different areas around Stroggos, and pits 
 you against many various foes and introduces you to a new weapons and some familiar weapons from 
 Quake II.
  
  The campaign in Quake 4 will take you from around eight to fifteen hours to complete. During the 
 beginning of the campaign you're introduced to the basic Stogg units that you'll encounter through 
 the majority of the game. Berserkers, Strogg Marines, and Grunts are some of the first types of 
 Strogg you'll meet in the Quake 4 single player campaign. Later in the game you'll meet more armored, 
 and powerful types of Strogg that'll get in your face along the way to completing the game. Like 
 the majority of first person shooters, Matthew Kane will be alone in most cases, but he'll have 
 Marines with him in a lot of cases. Besides having typical marines guiding him, he'll also get 
 the aid of Marine Techs which can completely replenish your armor, and Marine Medics which can 
 fully replenish your health. The AI of the marines along side Kane are actually pretty smart, and 
 will take cover, and in some cases even get to the Strogg kills before the player can.
  
  The weaponry in Quake 4 is another positive thing in the game. Quake 4's single player has eleven 
 different guns in your arsenal to choose from. From the basic blaster to a huge dark matter gun, 
 you'll have all the weapons you'll need to defeat an alien race and save the world. Another touch 
 is that all the weapons actually sounds powerful. When you fire a gun such as the Dark Matter Gun 
 you can just tell how powerful it really from the sound of it. The same goes for other weapons 
 such as the machine gun, hyperblaster, and rocket launcher, all these weapons sound as good as 
 they should. Speaking of audio in the game, the voice acting in Quake 4 is pretty top-notch. Each 
 Marine in the game has their own distinct voice. The sound department definitely did their job 
 in this game.
  
  One thing Quake 4 was high criticized for was a bad frame rate. During the time I played the game 
 I only experenced a frame rate problem once and when it happened it only lasted for a couple of 
 seconds. The graphics were also critizied in the 360's Quake 4 port. I personally never worry to 
 much about graphics, unless it's a bad art style that I can't see working with the theme, or bad 
 on the eyes. I won't use that as an excuse to say the graphics for the game are not top-notch. 
 The graphics are a tad dated, but all in all the graphics can stand on their own. If you played 
 games during the time of Atari through the Playstation you know graphics aren't what make the game.
 
  
  Quake 4's difficulty scale is pretty accurate, on Private the game has it's harder moments, but 
 nothing too challenging to new players of the series or genre. Corporal and higher will tend to 
 test the players skill in the first-person shooter genre from time to time. Each Strogg foe in 
 the game has unique combat skills that will play into the difficulty of the game. For instance, 
 over time the foes go from basic grunt-type enemies to thick armored and rocket shooting Strogg, 
 which usually can dodge your projectiles with ease. Boss fights within Quake 4 can be challenging 
 at times, having the player having to deactivate the boss's shield in order to even damage his 
 health. On the other hand, after you've obtained the Dark Matter Gun you can pretty much annihilate 
 the remaining bosses with several blasts of the Dark Matter Gun. To make up for the Dark Matter 
 Gun being so helpful, a lot of the boss Strogg have back up with them. Overall the difficulty in 
 Quake 4 is pretty solid.
  
  Quake 4's single player campaign will have the player going to many different locations from the 
 basic spaceship corridors to elaborate Strogg human testing facilities, and even the place where 
 all the waste, and failed experiments end up. Besides the run and gun combat, Kane will have to 
 bored a vehicle from time to time to get the job done. The vehicle parts of the game are pretty 
 simple, and easy at times. Most times you're just controlling the gun on the rig, or standing on 
 the back of a truck and shooting any Strogg that appear. Anytime the vehicles have a health bar 
 it replenishes when it's not taking fire for a given amount of time. There's also a time when you 
 get to control a tank, and have control of the guns as well. The tanks armor also replenishes, 
 and has limited rockets along with a machine gun. The vehicle combat is one of the aspects the 
 game could have needed a little more work on.
  
  Quake has always been famous for it's multiplayer. Quake 4 also has multiplayer reminiscent to 
 Quake 2 and 3, with the typical deathmatch, capture the flag, and game modes you would expect to 
 find. You'll find all the same weapons from the single player campaign in the multiplayer game, 
 with the exception of the blaster. Added to the weaponry in the multiplayer is a chainsaw-type 
 weapon with a horizontal blade. The combat in the multiplayer is pretty fast paced, like the previous 
 games. The 360s port has online play, and the option to system link for multiplayer. The 360 port 
 is missing a split screen multiplayer which some people might of liked to have. If you're interested 
 in Quake for the multiplayer experience I would recommend the PC's version, since it is the overall 
 better version, and will likely have plenty of people still playing Quake 4 online. Xbox Live does 
 have people playing online, most likely for achievement, so you can always try your luck there.
 
  
  Overall Quake 4 is an enjoyable game if you're willing to overlook some minor flaws and just play 
 the game for the experience. Fans of Quake and the dark, space themed first person shooters will 
 find enjoyment in this game. If you're not sure about the game and have had no previous experience 
 with Quake, then you won't be lost with this one and if you're a fan of the genre then you might 
 enjoy the game.
  
  Thanks for reading my Quake 4 review, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCyberDDemon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Not bad... but not good. Thats my def to this game
  
  The PROS you already know. The hi-quality and sophisticated building inside the game, the weapons 
 are all fun --powered by oldschool understanding -- fueled with hardcore blood bath hard to fight 
 trought even on IM A WIMP game level. Finally, a good story to push the quake series.
  
  The cons... you already know too. The sound on the game is terrible, it is a unspeakable mess... you 
 dont know if it is stereo or mono sometimes, if it is digital or common... The best -nameless- 
 graphic engine ever is not working as i have expected here, its just dont looks like doom3. What 
 a messed adaptation 
  
  You may call that corporal kane something like STROGGFICATED warrior, but i call him MASTERCHIFIED 
 soldier. Dont ask man... it is ID soft paranoia.
  
  But i hate the strogg from my worst instincts anyway... be captured and hold up on stroggfication 
 processing plant is just rising that feeling to the dark pit of the revenge! Ok ... QUAKE 5 here 
 we go
  
  this game is approved by me. On the contrary of doom3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  As I read some reviews for this version of Quake 4, a lot of them had gave this game a mediocre 
 score. Well I am a huge fan of id's games like the Doom, Quake, and Wolfenstein series. Doom 3 
 is a (n) excellent game with it's really good graphics and gameplay. Some of the problems I see 
 with Quake 4 is one, that you can easily tell it was built off of Doom 3's engine. 2) the gameplay 
 pretty much remains the same. Meaning all you do is just fire your gun at some aliens. There is 
 nothing really different between that and Doom 3's gameplay. I like to think of this game as another 
 story for Doom. The graphics I think are just slightly better than Doom 3. As I was playing this 
 game I can tell that some parts of the game, the frame-rate was kind of terrible. That mostly happens 
 when you're in battle with a whole bunch of Strogg's. I do like the story of the game. Because 
 if up played Quake 2, this game is where it picks up where that game left off. Overall I think 
 this is an OK game to play. Maybe you want to rent it first before buying it. I only bought this 
 game used for like $12 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_268
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Doom 3 was a very good game. The controls were smooth, the gameplay 
 was fast-paced and exciting, and it was just scary enough to make you look behind your chair a 
 couple of times in real-life. Quake 4 is an honest attempt at making a next-gen Doom 3, it just 
 falls very short. The controls are smooth, but the graphics and storyline leave much to be desired.
 
  
  In Quake 4 the main character is a marine by the last name of Kane (our hero from Quake 2) . Kane 
 has little personality and people still seem to give him a rough time even though he probably saved 
 all of their lives in the previous installment. For a more in-depth analysis on Kane you can play 
 all of Quake 2 on a bonus disc that is included in the package (It's a whole lot better than Quake 
 4) . 
  
  As for the multiplayer, it works. It's not over the top, while it fills the place it needs to. 
 It still contains the basics, death matches, capture the flag, etc. However the real challenge 
 is finding a group of people online who will play you, its virtually deserted out there. Quake 
 4 is disappointing to say the least, it could have been a lot better but it just doesn't deliver, 
 and it certainly does not live up to the standards of its predecessors. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_loei
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Wow. I mean, I guess this game is all about what you're really into. 
  
  Graphics-wise, it's ok, some things look kind of nice, but other things like outdoor textures look 
 really muddy - and not like they were supposed to be. The game makes up for it with plenty of nice 
 little creepy moments and cool spots, like a nice and bloody surgery performed on a automated assembly 
 line, or when a huge capitol ship lands directly above your character and you get to explore it, 
 which is actually pretty cool.
  
  Unfortunately, the game's balance of ok graphics and cool gameplay moments is thrust into the negative 
 side of things by the lag. There is huge lag on outdoor environments, or if the indoor fighting 
 gets too intense, which really detracts from the experience. It's really no fun at all to be in 
 a huge firefight, especially since the A. I. are dumb (though it's forgivable just because it means 
 you can kill more of them) , because theres too much lag to properly enjoy the cool guns of Quake 
 4. 
  
  And speaking of enemies, there are PLENTY of them to fight, with lot's of variety. It ranges from 
 creepy little zombie-like dudes to your fellow marines turned Strogg to huge mechanical spiders 
 or overly fat organic machines implanted in the walls who are actually important parts of a Strogg 
 complex. This keeps the game interesting, though sometimes you'll fight a ton of the same enemies 
 in one spot which is boring, it's always a tense moment when a new creature is introduced. The 
 bosses are REALLY fun to fight. These guys arn't to bright, and you can usually fin a way to exploit 
 weaknesses which were unintended, like one rocket firing boss won't manuever to get a better shot 
 at you if you hide behind a corner, so you can just pop out occasionally and shoot 'till something 
 key happens.
  
  Sounds are ok. Not much to say about 'em except the music keeps the right parts of the game tense, 
 but it's nothing memorable.
  
  Multiplayer is a mess. Don't even ask about it. I'll give you one word: Lag.
  
  Story and Characters 
 - These are cool. The story can be slightly confusing if you havn't played the other Quake games, 
 in particular Quake 2, but to be fair, the developers did make up for this by including Quake 2 
 in the box, which is a really nice little treat, and the game works beautifully on the 360. The 
 characters are mostly really memorable. It does get tiring having them all randomly at one point 
 get dragged away and killed while all you hear is screams. As soon as one asks you to go find something 
 while he stays and secures the area you know it's coming, and all you can do at that point is brace 
 for the screams and inevetible blood trail followed by the introduction of a new enemy. The characters 
 on the most part are memorable, and some nice little cinematic parts come in, which are hard to 
 forget (in a good way) . Even now, a long time later, I can clearly bring to mind some pretty sweet 
 cinematic scenes. And the game is long enough to include a lot of them. For those of you in for 
 a LONG single-player experience, you'll probably be pleased by the length of Quake 4, if not the 
 lag and iffy graphics. The game comes in at about 20 hours on regular difficulty. Not enough to 
 match GTA 4, but still enough for a long time.
  
  As an after thought, I think I'll mention that the save files are nice because you can save ANY 
 particular point in the game, which is something I've yearned for in most console games, as well 
 as Quake 4 making use of a checkpoint system. Though it should be noted that the save-files are 
 kind of randomly placed, and if you have a lot it can get confusing finding what you're looking 
 for.
  
  Overall, I'd reccomend renting it first, just to make sure the disadvantages make up for the handful 
 of advantages. You will be getting a good bang for your buck if you decide to buy it, because Quake 
 2 is a nifty little prize to be included in any game. It all depends on what you like in a game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacamaro2000
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  the reviews i've read thus far are pretty on when they talk about this game not being much to look 
 at because we're seeing so many amazing games come out even near the same time this one came out 
 that you think "couldn't they have tried harder?"
  
  the characters are funny though they weren't intended to be. they all have random accents to match 
 their ethnic names. so if it sounds like a spanish name, he'll have a hispanic accent. their expressions 
 resemble fish sometimes. something horrible just happened, they look like a fish. something good 
 just happened, fish. the voice acting is okay, its makes up for the lack of facial expressions. 
 their eyes are spot on you though, i ran around a guy just sitting down and his eyes stayed on 
 me, creepy, but kinda cool. everyone has some kind of different dialogue too which keeps things 
 interesting. 
  
  well laying that aside, the game is fun. its a quake game. so if you were looking to play a quake 
 like game, guess what, you're going to play one from the crappy weapon in the beginning to the 
 ridiculous guns in the end even to the quick, cheap and easy cheat codes!
  
  i bought this game yesterday for $13 at gamestop, it was worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Portrays a great atmosphere, pretty good graphics and sound, fun vehicle sections, weapon 
 upgrades let you mix up strategy, very gruesome
  
  The Bad: Framerate can't keep up with the action, no one plays online, lame ending, feels redundant 
 after awhile, it's kind of short
  
  This marks the fourth installment in Johnny Boy's Quake brain child. Running all the way back to 
 1994 Quake was kind of a "palette swap of Doom" and it's strong point being the multiplayer. Quake 
 4 changes that with an excellent single player experience. Unlike Doom 3 Quake 4 is more of a "on 
 rails shooter" where it guides you through a lot of scary and tense scripted events. These work 
 for the game and separates it from it's brethren. You play as Kane who is a soldier that has to 
 help stop the Strogg invasion by destroying them at their core; the Nexus. As you make your way 
 to the Nexus you can pick up a ton of cool weapons, upgrades, and even turn into a Strogg yourself. 
 The weapons range from your piddly blaster to a dark matter gun. You have your railgun, a nailgun, 
 shotgun, lightning gun etc. Throughout the campaign you can unlock upgrades for these weapons like 
 clip extenders, scopes, and extra damage. This let's you easily change your strategy around and 
 what gun works in what situation. The game has some pretty neat enemies types ranging from Grunts 
 that rush you with their bulky body or Berserker's who are all about melee. You have floating enemies 
 that shoot rockets at you, you have giant spider robots, you even have massive Strogg with shields 
 and railguns. These are all gruesome looking enemies that are both terrifying to look at and really 
 fun to fight. The game sports great AI with enemies dodging your shots and ducking behind cover. 
 Each enemy has to be taken care of differently, so you have have five weaker enemies and two guys 
 with railguns. You take the five weaker ones out with a grenade or a rocket then deal with the 
 railgun guys with your dark matter gun, or you can shoot rockets at their feet. This allows you 
 to create a strategy that works best for you. I just really love the atmosphere Quake 4 delivers. 
 You'll walk through rooms and lights will dim and enemies will run across corridors, your team 
 mates will get dragged off and tortured, and there are also some really cool vehicle sections. 
 You either mount a machine gun, drive a tank, or a mech. All handle really well and these sections 
 are both fun and challenging. This is a nice change too Quake which has always been on foot. Now 
 when it comes to multiplayer the game is fun, but nothing really special. What doesn't help is 
 no one is playing online (which really sucks) and the one map I did play was really boring. The 
 game does have a lot of downfalls though. The game does have major framerate issues, but isn't 
 as bad as what people say. It only bothered me a few times in the game. The graphics are really 
 good yet the Doom 3 engine is really dated and can't be pushed any further. While the game does 
 have weapons upgrades and vehicle sections the game still feels redundant, and has the dumbest 
 ending ever. So, if you want a good single player experience it's worth a rental or purchase (it's 
 less than $10 everywhere) then play Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdwolf260
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:30 pm PT
Review:  If you've enjoyed Doom 3 on the original Xbox or PC, Quake 4 gives you a very similar experience. 
 All you need to know about the storyline is that you're a soldier in a war against a cyborg alien 
 race known as Strogg. Your job ultimately ends up to try to disrupt the Strogg source of communication, 
 which is currently giving them an upper hand in the conflict. There's not a whole lot of meat to 
 it than that, except for a big plot twist half-way through the game. The graphics are decent but 
 not a big jump from the last gen Doom 3. However, there are some frame rate issues popping up once 
 in a while, which makes things a little less forgivable on the visual side. I mean, if the game 
 looks only as good as the one of the last gen games, even though Doom 3 was one of the most impressive 
 looking games on the original Xbox, why are some sections of the game plagued by such a bad frame 
 rate? Seriously, this was the worst drop on frame rate I ever experienced in any game period!
 
  The weapons are varied and thankfully all fun to wage war with. Multiplayer is fast and furious 
 but not anything to drool over. When it comes down to it, Quake 4 isn't doing anything that hasn't 
 been done before and due to the frame rate issue it doesn't even do it all that well. The bottom 
 line is if you've enjoyed Doom 3 you will enjoy this title as well, just don't expect to be blown 
 away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief1694
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  i got this game NEW fo my birthday... say about 2-3 days ago. im at the final stage and onceI finish 
 the level, it blacks out, then stays that way! i cant even enter the xbox guide! 
  i got bored with it. and thinking. should i play it???? (i got 3 0ther games for my birthday) i 
 got bored with it. so i played prey and beat it. so then i got back to this then i got up to that 
 one point.....
  
  apart from that, heres my personal opinion about the game
  
  The sound could be better sometimes the characters' mouths are moving but theyre not talking. i 
 even turned up my volume and still nothing
  
  graphics could be better. this almost reminded me of doom 3 back on the original xbox. 
  
  
 gameplay is great. Ammo at some points is scarce, and gettingthe weapon achievements was rather 
 difficult at times.
  
  anyway, this is an OK game, im just disappointed about the freezing up. ill probably try it on 
 a different xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  alright critics. here is a critical review for klingons and romulans alike. listen, i have been 
 a quake fan since the beginning all those years ago. this one was completely over looked and put 
 down for no reason at all. the gameplay is solid followed by pretty damn good graphics.
  
  the storyline is good and offers plenty of entertainment and for all you blood and gore enthusiests 
 this one delivers. you would have to be a fool that needs to go back to your mothers basement to 
 pass this one up. alright, alright dont be so damn sensitive. this one is a classic and a great 
 addition to the quake series. you need to go buy it... forget about "oh i only have enough money 
 from my allowance to get one game" waahh.. stop your tears and go get a job. stop muching off your 
 loving parents, get a job and buy lots and lots of video games because you need this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash2X
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Good Singleplayer-Lengh
  +Good Atmosphere and Sound
  +Just plain Action-FPS
  +Quake 2 included
  
  The Bad:
  -Slowdowns
  -Multiplayer-Archivements 
 are crazy
  -one of the shortest Endings ever
  
  First off, Im not that big Quake-Series-Fan. Whyever. I never gave too much about Quake, exept Q3A 
 on the Dreamcast. But I really liked this game.
  
  The Gameplay:
  Quake 4 can be pretty much compared to Doom 3. You have masses of Enemys running around, its pretty 
 much straight-forward and you have to shoot before you think. Actually I dont think its a bad 
 thing. The Level-design is ok and even if you got slowdowns, the Aiming-Help is generous and I never 
 got the feeling that its so bad that I whould have a vital disadvantage. The game is simple, but 
 fun. After a bunch of wannabe-clever-FPS with weak puzzles and the try to make a senseful Storyline 
 and stupid hidden keys it almost feels like a vacation.
  The Multiplayer is pretty basics without trying to make anything new. If thats good or bad depends 
 on your personal taste. I thought its a nice addition, even if I prefer other games over it. Maybe 
 because it lags pretty often too.
  
  The Graphics:
  Like said, the game has a lot of small, somtimes bigger slowdowns. Of course. since it came a bit into 
 age and some textures arent ported so well it didnt age gracefully. As a whole the game still 
 catches the Atmosphere and arent as bad as most Reviews said them to be. Too bad they didnt spend 
 a bit more time for the port.
  
  The Sound:
  Good orignal Soundtrack, a good 5.1-FX-Mix, atmospheric Sounds... everythings great ecept one thing: The 
 Sound-Mix of the Voices. Its sometimes awful to understand what the Soldiers say to you... but since 
 it wont make too much sense anyway or doesnt contain too much information, I think you can live 
 with it.
  
  So...:
  Quake 4 is aside from its small issues a simple to play FPS, that is fun if you prefer Shooting 
 before asking. Its not a Must-have-game but by now the Game is cheap, includes Quake 2 as well and 
 can entertain you for some evenings. I personally was happy with it. I expected MUCH less after reading 
 the other reviews.
  
  
  PS for PAL-Gamers: AFAIK only the German-Version is cut and doesnt include Quake 2. It has its 
 own servers, thanks to that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Efielret
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Remember the good o' days of playing Quake 1, 2, and Quake Arena? Well I don't. I've only played 
 1 and 2 and they are quite fun. Quake 4 is different though. Did you play Doom 3 or Doom 3 R. o. E.? 
 I did. (Haha tricked you there didn't I?) It seems like those graphics that were very good on the 
 original xbox, isn't getting a good welcome on this game that was released upon the arrival of 
 the 360. This is Doom 3, but subtract the freaky and add some more space in your battlefields. 
 Get ready to be blown away... Or uh not, I'm not so sure.
  
  The story. So you're Matthew Kane, of Rhino Squad. Fighting that strange alien race you see in 
 a lot of games, but here they're know as the Strogg. In Quake 2, which this game follows, and well... 
 Quake 2 is like Quake 1 and Quake 4 is Quake 2, you can leave 1 and 3 out. (But seriously, play 
 1 and 3.) These are the only two Quake games that make up the story. Kane had success destroying 
 the Strogg leader in Quake 2. Now he's going to stop them.
  
  The Multi-Player. Besides Quake 3's great multi-player. This offers a bit less. Make that a lot 
 less. The have many maps and game modes, but the thing is, the Quake 4 community is dead. Seems 
 like Matthew Kane didn't only stop the Strogg. One achievement is being ranked number 1 in the 
 world. I mean... That's going a little too far. But when you actually do find a match, it is very 
 entertaining.
  
  Weapons from the old Quake games appear in Q4. A wide vary of weapons is at your disposal. Blaster, 
 Dark Matter Gun, Grenade Launcher, Hyper Blaster, Lightning Gun, Nail Gun, Rail Gun, and all those 
 other types of guns. Use these to blast things into bits and pieces in this short game.
  
  This, being a First Person Shooter, is well, quite interesting. Don't expect your Halo or most 
 well known, story lines. This is just another generic story, but with fun game play and a few glitches 
 here and there. This is generic done right.
  
  Graphics, I feel for this game, because I myself have bad outdated graphics. Well these aren't 
 that bad and had o. k. lighting. It used the same engine as Doom 3. Which I found myself playing 
 immediately after. It's something that kills many games. But once you see past it, you realize 
 that this game is worth the little money it cost now.
  
  The sound. I found it quite good actually, I didn't like the actors. They seemed, not very into 
 it. But there is nothing going bad around this area.
  
  Graphics: Characters/Animation: 4/10
  Scenery: 6/10
  Story: 5/10
  Controls: 9/10
  Sound: 
 9/10
  Multi-player: 8/10
  Length: 29 Areas: 9/10
  Replay Value: 7/10
  
  It's worth it, especially when you get Quake 2 as a bonus when you buy Quake 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknoteye6
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Certain games just feel really cheap. This happens to be one of them. Quake 4 for the Xbox 360 
 is almost a completely different game compared to the one for the PC. The first thing I did was 
 start playing the multiplayer, It's just what I do, Id rather play against other people than a 
 computer. It wasn't so bad when I was able to find someone playing. The Multiplayer seemed to work 
 for me so I moved onto the single player campaign and all hell broke loose. The characters seemed 
 cheap compared other Xbox games. When anyone speaks it's too hard to here, but when you turn it 
 up you usually do it at the wrong time and the game gets to loud so you have to turn it down. It's 
 not really fun, the game isn't really that hard and I found playing Quake 2 better than playing 
 the actual quake 4. Luckilly it's included with the game. Cheap scares are all throughout the game. 
 You know that they were trying to scare your but it didn't work so well. DOOM 3 WAS BETTER AND 
 IT WAS LAST GEN!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 5, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Just so everyone knows, the reviews I post are my opinions, I'm not paid and I rate them on how 
 I see them. My opinions may differ from every ones and that's OK.
  
  Name: Quake 4
  
  Platforms this game is available on: PC/XBox 360
  
  Platform that this game is being reviewed 
 on: XBox 360
  
  Publisher: Activision
  
  Developer: Raven Software
  
  Genre: FPS/Sci-Fi
  
  Difficulty: Easy
  
  Learning Curve: 15 Minutes
  
  Number of Players: 
 1 
  
  Online Players: 8
  
  Online Modes: Competitive/Team Oriented
  
  Offline Modes: Story Mode
  
  Release Date: 11/18/2005
  
  ESRB Rating: M
  
  ESRB Description: 
 Intense Violence/Blood and Gore/Strong Language
  
  Score: 4 out of 10
  
  Game Price
  Price Used: $14.99 (www. ebgames. com)
  Price New: $34.99 (www. walmart. com
  
  Is there a Game 
 Guide Book Available Yes: 
  Price Used: $2.93 (www. amazon. com)
  Price New: $15.59 (www. amazon. com)
  
  Now, I'll be honest I never completed this game. Your 
 probably wondering: "Did the disk break or worst did I get the dreaded Red Ring of Death?" The 
 answer to either statements is no. I was just bored with the game. To me it felt like it went on 
 a lot longer than it should have. I played a good while make my way to the boss I than died and 
 got changed into a cyborg or whatever it is you call them. Now, I was willing to admit I would 
 have been happy to have died than that was the end of the game but no they make me a robot and 
 it seems to keep on going forever. So after that I just put the game down and never played it again. 
 The storyline isn't the only problem I have with it. Another issue was the Graphics. Now I just 
 got done playing Bio Shock prior to that game and it made me feel like game should have been on 
 the original XBox the sound wasn't the greatest either. I know I'm raging on this game a lot but 
 it's how I see it. I'll also admit I never played any other Quake game so I can't compare this 
 one to them. So it also may happen my opinion of it but this was the main reasons for not giving 
 it a good review and for that, this is why it only gets a 4 out of 10. it gets a M for Intense 
 Violence/Blood and Gore/Strong Language. But this is my review don't take my word for it play it 
 on your own and than you can judge it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  I've always liked id for it's brash, unapologetic goriness that is vaguely reminiscent of campy 
 B horror movies. Quake 4 is no exception, maintaining the usual formula of high tech meets the 
 ultraviolent, all while maintaining a peaceful balance between over the top horror and great action. 
 
  
  Still, in this day and age, with games like Manhunt 2 and Condemned out there, Doo... Err, Quake 
 4 seems like it's trying to up the ante and try harder. Back in the 90s, Doom was the goriest thing 
 out there, but now that type of id gore we all know and love seems more like sesame street than 
 anything shocking. Still, Quake 4 steps it up a lot, simply going crazy with the horrific imagery. 
 Torsos pulsate in the walls. Mutilated humans are butchered like meat before your eyes. People 
 are graphically crucified and tortured, and in the typical id fashion, you are unable to save them 
 or put them out of their misery. It feels like a cheesy snuff film.
  
  Still, the only real shock comes when you are placed on a conveyor belt and forced to watch yourself 
 be mutilated in the first person a million times in what can be best described as a human going 
 through a car assembly plant. The biology geek inside me fumed at that scene, as there's no way 
 in John Romero's name a human could survive something that traumatic, but I let it slide, as somehow, 
 minutes later, you're running around killing things- which usually makes me not complain about 
 the scientific improbability of this and focus on not dying.
  
  The action in the game is pretty well rounded, providing a good, smooth fragfest, the likes that 
 you expect from id. The music is decent for what it is, but not memorable. The sound is fine, and 
 all around, it's a decent game.
  
  My main complaint is that I've played this game before. I played this game when I first played 
 Doom. Now, id is great. When I need well balanced ultraviolence to make my day a little bit brighter, 
 there's nowhere better to go than id. However, after how many years, you'd think there'd be something 
 a bit more innovative in the mix. I played through this game, and while it was fun, I just kept 
 on thinking, "This is all strangely familiar."
  
  I think of id like I do George Romero- most of his movies are just more of the same. However, that 
 doesn't mean it's a bad thing, as I know what to expect when I see a George Romero flick- A cheesy 
 zombie flick. I know what to expect when I buy a game from id- A ultraviolent game where I kill 
 some variation of robozombies, demons, or whatever with a shotgun and a chainsaw. It's fun, and 
 in 1995 it was innovative, but there are times where I really want to be surprised by id. I will 
 always remember Doom because it was original, fun, and blew me away at the time. Quake 4 doesn't- 
 in fact, it's hardly memorable. It's more of the same in an time where gameplay is emerging as 
 a true storytelling artform, and in that way, I am really disappointed and frustrated. Id led the 
 videogaming world in 1995, but Quake 4 is a sign that it's time to try something new- it is the 
 epitome of what I come to expect from Id, and it's probably not going to get much better than this, 
 so move on and try something different. 
  
  Once you get past the id fixation, Quake 4 really isn't a bad game. From a plot standpoint, it's 
 decent- not amazing, not horrible, just decent. There's no amazing moment in gameplay storytelling, 
 save for the assimilation scene, which, frankly, was a bit too over the top for me to take seriously. 
 Still, it provided a compelling enough story to keep me interested enough to finish the game, so 
 in that way it succeeds. The action is fun, and while it requires little use of gray matter, it's 
 intense enough to keep you on your toes. The weapons are fairly typical id fare, with a plasma 
 gun, a shotgun, and of course, a gun akin to the BFG 9000. 
  
  Outside of combat and the fact that this is an id game, there really isn't that much to this game. 
 It's an overall fun slaughterfest that offers nothing new, but retains the id feel that comes together 
 to make a overall fun, albeit unoriginal game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  I played Quake 2 for over a year competively online and in my opinion it provided the best online 
 FPS for its time. Everything else since has tried to copy it. I haven't been able to try Quake 
 4 online but the single player campaign is well done.
  
  I only have two complaints. One that the graphics engine, same as Doom redux is way too dark. They 
 at least provide flashlights on certain weapons and add more lighting. The second is that no split 
 screen option is provided for mutiplayer. 
  
  The story picks up where Quake 2 left off. The best and most gruesome part is when you get "stroggified" 
 pretty nasty lil sequence. Only thing is it doesn't seem to provide much of a benefit other then 
 25 more health and armor.
  
  I've read complaints about slowing down in places and other downright lies because I haven't experienced 
 any of that. The game runs smoothly on the 360 and looks great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illufox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  After playing practically every FPS game available for the 360, Quake 4 was one I pushed on the 
 backburner for too long, just because I believed the bad score here on Gamespot. Finally I bought 
 the game because it was in the bargain bin for $10.
  
  I went into the game with low expectations. My first impression was pretty average, but pretty 
 soon I found myself highly entertained. The game picked up from level to level. The weapons are 
 insane, the enemies are challenging (not like in Halo) and the graphics are surprisingly good, 
 considering this game is a few years old. 
  
  I didn't notice any frame rate skipping problems or any other flaws, besides that the loading time 
 for took way too long. That was pretty annoying as I became increasingly impatient mids in a great 
 fight where I died and wanted to continue.
  
  However, this annoyance can easily be overlooked by the fact that this game can be saved anywhere, 
 anytime. So no frustrating level restarts like in Lost Planet and similar.
  
  What surprised me most was the length of the game. It seemed to be never-ending! I'm a pretty fast 
 FPS player, but this took me at least 40 hours to complete, if not more! Not because of the difficulty 
 but the length of the levels and the amount of levels!
  
  The game often reminded me of Doom, which is one of my favorite FPS games out there. I played the 
 Halo series and Gears of War, both totally overrated, and not even close to Quake 4!
  
  If you like great weapons, awesome levels, extremely intimidating bosses, great sounds, cool graphics 
 and most of all a hell of lot of fun, pick this up! This game is highly addictive and an instant 
 classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrRoberto
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this one shorter than my usual reviews. Never in 20+ years of gaming have I sold back 
 a game as quickly as Quake 4. I struggled to make it past the first few hours of the game, and 
 was not at all impressed with the pedestrian approach to FPS design. What could have been a great 
 launch release for the 360 turned into a total non-event. Every aspect of the game is a disappointment, 
 except for Quake II being bundled with it. You've seen these weapons before, the cutscenes are 
 horrible looking, the game plays at a slide-show pace when anything remotely complicated happens, 
 and level design is a confusing pile of slop. If you own this already, both discs could make a 
 lovely earring set, or a nice set of matching coasters. Add all of this up, and you have a recipe 
 for one of the worst cash-ins in gaming history. Blech. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Story starts where Quake 2 ended. A nameless space marine fought his way through the planet Stroggos 
 and killed the Makron. After this more troops arrives to the planet and the war continues. You 
 play as Matthew Kane, who is a member an elite group of soldiers in Rhino Squad. Your mission is 
 to end this human vs. Strogg thing once and for all.
  
  Quake 4 uses the Doom 3 engine and the lighting effects are amazing. Environments are mostly tight 
 industrial corridors, but still they are very detailed and a pleasure to look at. Unfortunately 
 the frame rate takes a hit regularly and you will definitely notice this.
  
  Music and sound deserve a credit, because they manage to create a living, breathing and an unpleasant 
 atmosphere to be in. Halo 3 is nowhere near as good as Quake 4 in terms of creating a believable 
 sound space. I suggest you play Quake 4 with headphones on in order to experience the full potential 
 of the game&acute; s sound design.
  
  The loading times are way too long: when you die it takes about 35 seconds to load your last saved 
 game in order to continue. In a tough combat situation this means that you will be looking at loading 
 screens more often than you are playing. Game also freezes occasionally, which makes it imperative 
 to save very often.
  
  Save system is great: there are Checkpoints and AutoSaves, but still you can save at any time anywhere. 
 This feature comes in handy, because you will die quite often in Quake 4.
  
  In terms of gameplay Quake 4 does not offer you anything new, but what it does is to bring a solid, 
 fast-paced first person shooter action. There are frequent vehicle levels too, but unlike in Half-Life 
 2 usually they are not fun to play through.
  
  Game comes with a bonus disc containing Quake 2 and some documentaries and interviews of the makers. 
 This is a nice feature, which always makes the overall experience deeper than it otherwise would 
 be.
  
  Multiplayer is fast and almost the same as it was in Quake 3. This means that it gets old very 
 quickly. If you want to have a good multiplayer experience, then go and look somewhere else.
  
  Quake does not reinvent the wheel, but it&acute; s a solid title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recoil816
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  First of all, I've been playing the Quake series since the original title came out, so I'm a huge 
 fan. I even loved Quake 3: Arena... not sure why not many other people did.
  
  Anyways, this game is really a great game, with a great story, characters and environments. It 
 has a extensive variety of weapons, upgrades, etc.
  But, the only real issue with it (on the XBOX 360 at least) is the graphical issues. The frame 
 rate is great when you're only fighting one, possibly two enemies simultaneously. Once you get 
 deep into the game though, and you're frantically being ambushed by a half a dozen or more Strogg 
 at once? The gameplay can get extremely choppy.
  
  Besides that and the very long loading time between levels, I have no complaints. I'll be playing 
 it for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesus_knight
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of the first release titles in the xbox 360 library, so it is natural that due to 
 the lack of knowledge of new systems hardware some games are not as good as you could expect, unfortunately 
 quake 4 falls under this category. The graphics are good and the game uses the Doom 3 engine (which 
 was a graphical masterpiece) , but now days the engine doesn't impress you as much as it did the 
 first time but, the real problem with quake 4 is in its frame rates which falls dramatically when 
 you have
  several enemies in the screen at once (even during the cut scenes where you see a lot of characters 
 together) , and evolves into a real mess
  in the latest levels of the game due to the increased number of enemies you need to defeat in a 
 matter of seconds. Another problem is that the game, graphically, resembles too much Doom 3 and 
 it makes you wonder if the first xbox could manage quake 4.
  The game doesn't do anything new to innovate the FPS genre and the gameplay feels very basic, nevertheless, 
 Even with all these problems, the game manages to be fun. The music is moody and there is one cool 
 track that plays 3 or 4 times in some crucial moments during the game and the sounds effect are 
 good too. The multiplayer portion of the game feels a lot like a PC multiplayer and its a nice 
 addition but It could be better, anyway if you like playing online then, quake 4 will give you 
 more hours of gameplay specially if you like unlocking xbox 360 achievements. finally, Quake 4 
 single adventure portion of the game will last you some 8-10 hours and it is kind of fun despite 
 some evident flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellpolice
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  First of all this the first Quake game I ever complete in the series. For the sake of those who 
 have not play or have the game this package comes with a bonus disk in which include The Making 
 Of and Quake 2 so fans get more bang for their money. Not being a veteran of this title myself 
 I though it was nice an older Quake was included to catch up with old times. Now into the game 
 I was first impressed by the graphics and how fast the frame per second were the first hour and 
 a half into the game after that the frame rate goes down and stays at the same rate for the rest 
 of the game, I have not experienced any major technical issues which is excellent for a 360 game. 
 However the gameplay seen generic of any other FPS out there, but being a longtime franchise I 
 didn't mind that particular aspect because ID and Raven targeted longtime fans of the game (correct 
 me if I'm wrong) The weapons are basically generic: handgun, the shotgun, the machine gun the most 
 interesting are the Dark Matter cannon but I ended up using the machine gun most of the time because 
 of its fast fire rate. The level are designed dungeon style yet they have twist an turns and it 
 is atmospheric reminiscent of Alien and Aliens which seen to keep exploration interesting and challenging. 
 The enemy placing throughout the levels are interesting and keeps it somewhat unpredictable but 
 most of the time one face the enemies head on like most FPS. The replay value is decent so you'll 
 come back but once the game is beaten you'll want to move on and play something else.
  
  A good game but not the greatest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I got this game not too long ago and recently beat it. Its a pretty fun game, considering how short 
 it is. I beat it in under 10-15 hours but on harder modes it really does get pretty hard. The only 
 couple of downsides I can think of are, 1) The graphics are really not that great. They could be 
 a lot better, and 2) Its live isnt too good so barely anyone plays anymore. I didnt deduct much 
 from the score for that, i know its just an aging game, but i didnt think the live was anything 
 special, it was okay though. Overall, you can find this game pretty cheap in a lot of places, so 
 if you like FPS, I can pretty easily recommend this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowfire14
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok, we've all probably read the Gamespot review at this point, and for the most part, it wasn't 
 a review that gave you reason to go buy the game. In general, they complain about framerates and 
 texture qualities that aren't quite up to snuff. Overall, they say it's a great game, but the framerate 
 issues ruin the experience. This is far from the case.
  
  I am by no means a Quake series fan boy, in fact, I barely even knew what the Quake universe was 
 about before this game. Let me tell you right now that the framerates in NO WAY ruin the game. 
 In fact, unless you're sitting there waiting for the game to slow down even just a little bit, 
 you won't notice it as an issue at all. The single player is very smooth and very fast paced that 
 will keep you on your toes quite a bit. You won't notice any issues really unless there is a huge 
 battle going on, in which case, expect a little lag anyway. Overall, the guns as a whole are fun 
 and easy enough for anyone to pick up and use, although each one does require a bit of strategy 
 to use effectively. To go into more detail about the weapons, let's just kind of break them down. 
 As you go through the first few portions of the game, you only have a few basic weapons such as 
 the assault rifle, blaster, and shotgun, and the enemies really reflect these being relatively 
 under powered in relation to the weapons you're using. As you progress deeper however, the enemies 
 get tougher, and you weapons get more powerful and harder to effectively and efficiently get kill 
 because of slow projectile speed as well as low rate of fire, just like any FPS. This also has 
 no negative effect on the game.
  
  Now those are just the weapons and single player, which is where the game really shines IMO. The 
 multi player is less than fantastic and really leaves things to be desired. Although it is fast 
 paced, it also seems to be based around a lot of ambush tactics, which basically means get behind 
 the enemy, unload into their back, and you've got yourself a kill. This may not be true entirely, 
 but that's just my experience with the online community.
  
  Overall, the heart of the game really comes out in the single player. You may want to rent it first 
 just to see if it is the right game for you, although if you can't find a rental, it's also a safe 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Listen up soldier, we've invaded the Strogg's home planet to bring about destruction to their military 
 might, destroy the Nexus that is the key component to their communications and bring about an end 
 to the Quake Wars. So grab a machine gun and pour hot lead down their throats. That's basically 
 the plot to the game. It's a sci-fi military shooter that's more about completing objectives from 
 your CO than an engaging and plot twisting story from say Metal Gear Solid. But who cares about 
 the story right? Quake was never about that, it was about the guns and fighting the most butt ugly 
 menaces in a video game and Quake 4 has that in spades.
  
  So you're propably wondering what's the gameplay like? Well it's fast paced shooting with some 
 of the craziest weapons to pull the right trigger with. Some of the Quake favourites have returned 
 including rocket launcher, lighting gun and rail gun aswell as new and exciting weapons like the 
 dark matter gun that acts like the BFG and nail gun that can home in on enemy Strogg. There's a 
 good challenge in the game for new comers aswell as series vets who will want to play the game 
 on atleast the harder difficulties first.
  
  As for those of you who maybe wandering whether this game plays like a horror due to the type of 
 enemies you encounter there are some parts in the game where it gets a bit creepy but those are 
 mainly in the darker rooms where it's best to equip your maching gun with flash light attachment. 
 But this really isn't a horror as it's more action packed than anything else and there is a lot 
 of gore in the game to keep you blood thirsty hardcore players satisfied.
  
  Graphically although it's not up there with the likes of Gears of War or GRAW it still looks good 
 expecially with the lighting and the level designs. The guns do looks good with some nice lighting 
 effects on them and as for the environments it's very rich in detail. Due to the fact that you 
 are on the Strogg home planet and the enemy are made up of machine and recycled boddy parts you 
 can expect things like amputated bodies on the wall that are actually still breathing and humans 
 on operating tables with their chests wide open where you can see their insides and the enemies 
 are really creepy looking and it's perfect for the Quake series.
  
  The sounds are good too with weapons sound effects sounding very futuristic like and top notch 
 voice acting except for the repetitve grunts of the Strogg. And of course the main character, Kane, 
 doesn't speak at all which doesn't surprise due to the fact that id software don't exactly flesh 
 out their main characters.
  
  So is this game worthy of being in your 360 collection? Well if ever you see it at a cheap price 
 then I reckon you should consider it because for anyone who can't afford a high end PC will find 
 that the 360 version is a better choice and will definately get a good lengthy sci-fi shooter experience. 
 And with Quake 4 on 360 you also get the full Quake 2 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btime
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Something about this game feels weak. Wait I've got it, everything. The game is dull, nothing new, 
 and some of it makes me feel like its a cheap imitation of Halo. Just the environments, the vehicles (cue: 
 see opening cutscene) . The storyline picks up so quickly it expects you to of played quake 2, and 
 lets face it it was a long time ago. Why not provide a better build off to your in a transport 
 and your landing. Now whether or not its a rip off of halo or not is up to personal opinion, and 
 im not saying every vehicle, just in the beginning, but it just feels like a halo knock off from 
 the beginning. Another thing that irks me is the lack of beauty in the graphics, the 360 is extremely 
 powerful and theres no excuse for it not to look as good if not better than the PC version, its 
 laziness. Overall play the demo, if you like the demo you'll like the game, but don't expect a 
 challenge either way. It's a pretty straightforward game, shoot everything that isn't an ally. 
 The guns are weak and I find the sound to be awful. The whole game just doesn't inspire any thoughts 
 of realism. So in the end why buy it, just play the Halos and thats all you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: centruroides
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Usually the Page rating is the best reference n is prudent keep in mind, but sometimes we brake 
 the rules
  The game DOESNT deserve that 6.6 on rating, in this page we make the average from gameplay, graphics, 
 sound blah blah blah, n we shall compare with the PC version, only the lack of better detail on 
 graphics, THATS ALL, n i mean it, however has good enough graphics. the game has the DOOM 3 tech, 
 so if u played doom 3 ull feel it familiar. The gameplay is good, good weponry, and that right 
 amount of enemies makes the game full of action... n even better when they came out from the floor 
 or higher places.
  
  My opinion here is:
  GET IT!, if u like shooters ull like it; i love em and maybe thats why i liked it, but ive played 
 shooters that rly doesnt worth even the time.
  The game includes Quake 2 also!.
  n more if it worth a 20 dlls equivalent.
  
  Centruroides opinion
  GL HF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbouk
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 as you would know by now is a FPS, where humans take on the strogg a mutated alien race.
 
  The game is just your run of the mill FPS, which isn't a bad thing, some parts you are on your 
 own, some you are with a team.
  The eniemies in the game are pretty could, with a few different types, some small and some huge,
 
  The game is mostly played on foot, with some vehicles parts, which are done quite nicely.
  I think the game has some good action parts, some very good shoot outs and a not too bad story.
 
  Overall, the game is not bad and the only real downside is the MP, which especially for Quake 
 title, too me wasn't that well thought out.
  I'd imagine this game is quite cheap know as well, which is a bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buying1999
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Quake is a shooter at it's best. With great graphics and fast action you'll find yourself squirming 
 in your seat while a grunt or an online human opponunte trys to take you down. Granted Quake isn't 
 for the meek at heart. With lots of gore, and some colorful language, it's really an adults game.
 
  
  I do wish that this game performed better on the 360. I'm sure that Xbox Live could be used to 
 release an update for this great game. I would like to see some additional maps and some smoother 
 frame rates. With a great atmosphere, lighting, good texture work , and creative level design, 
 this game really has a lot going for it. The technical issue of inconsistent frame rate kind of 
 takes you out of the game at times. Get ready for some fast action with a stutter now and again. 
 Overall this is a great game and the online multi-player adds great replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rappermile
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a game where you take on the role as a marine trying to fight off the war against the 
 alien race called the Strogg and this the fourth edition to the series you will take the fight 
 to the home planet of the strogg called stroggos. Eventually as you proceed along the game you 
 gain new weapons and weapon upgrades. The main story is that eventually you end up being part of 
 the people that are captured by the strogg and then you are put through a sick and deadly process 
 where you lose your human self and become one of the strogg. However right before the process is 
 complete your fellow marines come and save you. You look just like one of the strogg however they 
 have failed to install a brain component that makes you one of them. Since you are now half strogg 
 your body gives you access to the nexus. If it is destroyed it can dramaticaly turn the tides of 
 the war for the humans. You then continue from there going through the campaign going many firefights 
 and various boss battles all going to the ending of the game. The graphics are pretty good but 
 it doesn't utilize the 360 power. In some parts the game gets a little choppy but it is still fine. 
 The multiplayer is very fast paced utilizing all the weapons and you are able to use whatever custom 
 skin or charcter you want to be such as a marine or a strogg elite. However, media and various 
 reviewers have made this game look bad and so nobody tends to play this game on the 360 anymore 
 which is a real drag because this game was really fun two. Thanks alot gamespot! So overall this 
 is a pretty good game if one day this game arises again and claims the awsome multiplayer victory 
 that it really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teammojo
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is the continuation of the Quake 2 storyline. The game is a mix of old school Quake and 
 a bit of Doom 3. Not the most original title but if you have played and liked the previous Quake 
 games you should enjoy this one. The vehicle levels are a nice addition but overall nothing much 
 separates this game from the other FPS out there.
  
  Gameplay: A good single player storyline and some fun but up and down game play. Multi-player is 
 fun but finding a game can take awhile when at times there is no one to play. No downloadable player 
 models or maps really is a disservice to the game's PC roots.
  
  Graphics: The game looks to use the Doom 3 engine and looks a lot like Doom 3 at times. The graphics 
 are decent but compared to a game like Gears of War on the Xbox 360 it looks dated.
  
  Sound: Good ambient level noise to add to the single player gameplay but the voice levels of the 
 characters that talk to you are all too often too hard to hear unless you play wearing headphones.
 
  
  Bottom line: if your a quake fan you should enjoy it, if your not it's a fun game you can pick 
 up for less then $20 used online or at your local game store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swazonek
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  After many years, the Quake 2 story is finally continuing with Quake 4. Fans of the series are 
 bound to find enjoyment here but others should be warned that this a game about shooting everything 
 that moves with nothing innovative. Even so, it's still one of the best brainless First Person 
 Shooter's to come out in quite some time.
  
  The game follows the story of Matthew Kane of the fabled Rhino Squad who must battle against a 
 cyborg alien race known as the Strogg. after the destruction of the Strogg Leader named Makron, 
 your squad is tasked with securing the Strogg's home planet. Along the way, you fight the Strogg 
 and become one yourself which gives you a new HUD and makes way for advancing the Quake story. 
 The Quake story is one that is hard to follow yet interesting for an FPS. You will always want 
 to know what happens next in the story which is exactly how you should feel.
  
  Quake 4's gameplay is comparable to other FPS games where all you pretty much do is activate switches, 
 kill tons of enemies, and get into vehicle combat. Throughout most of the game, you will find yourself 
 going through halls and rooms filled with Strogg to fight. You can get some standard weapons to 
 dispose of them such as a pistol, machine gun, nailgun, rocket launcher, and lightning gun. All 
 of the weapons aren't very interesting with the exception of the dark matter gun which shoots a 
 giant vortex shot that implodes every enemy near it.
  
  Besides fighting the Strogg on foot, you can also get into a mech and ride on trams. The mech has 
 machine guns and rocket launchers on it and operates almost exactly like Kane does with the exceptions 
 of being able to take more hits and having infinite ammo. The tram parts consist of riding on-rails 
 and shooting every Strogg you can see as you pass them. While Quake 4 is mostly killing Strogg, 
 there are a few minor puzzles to contend with. None of them are frustrating but they aren't mind 
 blowing. The puzzles luckily don't ruin the game and they provide a good break to the action.
 
  
  The A. I of the Strogg isn't the brightest because most of the time they just stand and run around 
 shooting at you. The game does feature some boss battles which can be interesting, intense, and 
 fun- Especially the final boss encounter. Most of the time, Kane is in his squad so if you get 
 injured in combat or need more armor, your squad members are usually there to help. Besides giving 
 you health and armor, your squad members also do a formidable job killing the Strogg. This makes 
 the game a bit too easy at times because you will find that your squad members kill the Strogg 
 very quickly.
  
  The single-player campaign of Quake 4 lasts around 12 hours on the default difficulty which is 
 fine for an FPS of it's type. Besides the single-player, Quake 4 also has a 16-player multi-player 
 mode that can be played over System Link or Xbox Live. The gametypes range from an ordinary deathmatch 
 to a capture the flag match. The multi-player seems too outdated when compared to multi-player 
 modes seen in games such as Halo 2 and Perfect Dark Zero. Add in some serious lag issues and you 
 have a multi-player mode that simply isn't worth playing.
  
  Quake 4 sports impressive visuals for the most part. The environments you go through are all expertly 
 detailed and full of nice textures. The Strogg are especially well designed and look fantastic. 
 The only disappointing things are the crudely drawn backdrops in outdoor areas that look awful 
 compared to the rest of the graphics. The framerate in Quake 4 tends to drop pretty low when there 
 are lots of enemies on-screen but it never gets to a level where the game is unplayable.
  
  Quake 4 also has great music, sound effects, and voice acting. The music has an epic mood to it 
 that could easily go alongside a hollywood movie and fits the game perfectly. The sound effects 
 of the guns and explosions are all very loud and crisp. Quake 4's voice acting is excellent stuff 
 even though the dialogue is cheesy at times. Fans of the series will no doubt enjoy the game and 
 Overall, Quake 4 is a worthy addition to the series despite its lack of orginality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a actually good game. It feels alot like Doom 3 for a good reason, because it uses the 
 same engine. But that means that the graphics now, are out dated and give it a last generation 
 look to it.
  
  Quake 4s game play is great. Its still the fast paced run and gun that the first two quake games 
 were. It does give it a little out dated feeling to it... which really means it can be repetitive 
 at times. The game allows you to hold every gun at once which also gives it a out dated feeling. 
 But also gives it a old school thing to the gameplay, which really in the end makes it Quake. The 
 game has tons of weapons, and all of which you have pretty much seen before in the other quakes 
 or in other game.
  
  The graphics in Quake 4, are really out dated now. It uses the same engine that doom 3 used. So 
 you get this last generation look to it, but with better lighting effects. Now the animations in 
 the game are amazing. They are done really well and make the characters really believable.
  
  The sounds in quake are interesting. Everything sounds good. But sometimes they just aren't 
 believable. Some of the explosions are weak... very weak.
  
  But over all, this game is great experience, anyone that liked the other quake games should check 
 this game out. Rent it if your not sure. But if you find it for $20 then its a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  It looks like bioshock when you have the shotgun, but it's complete crap. Graphically this game 
 tries to be gore aplenty but with crappy graphics it doesn't back it up. There's this one part 
 in the game, my favorite part, where you were captured and are being turned into strogg, you hear 
 and see the saws cotting your legs, the lasers going into your brain, and nails going into your 
 legs. That was awesome, so now your like a super soldier. But after that the game sucks.
  
  Your gonna trade this in in no time. If you want an hour of an okay game than rent it. But don't 
 buy it.
  
  I'd recomend the PC or Mac Versions. There both alot better. The controls are awful, with no grenades 
 to THROW and only two guns having lights you can get really sick of your weapons. You'll aslo notice 
 that the shotgun and machine gun look a liitle bit like halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roland3710
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Usually, I either agree with GameSpot's reviews or can see why they gave a low score to a game 
 I enjoyed. In the case of Quake 4, I found GameSpot's score very questionable. When I first got 
 my 360 and was looking for games to get I saw Quake 4's score (6.6) and decided to hold off. I 
 recently purchased a pre-owned copy of Quake 4 in reasonable condition and found GameSpot's chief 
 criticism to be horribly exaggerated. While the review led to me believe that frame-rate issues 
 drastically affected gameplay, I experienced only two noticeable slowdowns each of which only lasted 
 for a few seconds. But the most important aspect of any game, naturally, is gameplay. It is here 
 that Quake 4 delivers. The action is fast-paced run and gun. If you have played any of the other 
 Quake games, you know what to expect. Enemy AI is not terribly complex. Most opponents shoot at 
 you and charge in for melee attacks. No surprises there. Others, however, use attacks that disrupt 
 your vision or teleport in other enemies.
  Your arsenal consists of a mishmash of weapons from previous Quake games which can be upgraded. 
 The lightning gun and nailgun are welcome adaptations from the first Quake game, and they prove 
 to be quite effective. Another weapon that's good to see is the Dark Matter Gun, which is essentially 
 the same thing as the BFG, capable of doing a lot of damage over a wide area. Overall, the Quake 
 4 arsenal is satisfying to use and more powerful than those of other current shooters. Unfortunately, 
 there is not a parallel to the super shot gun from Quake 2.
  Unlike previous Quake games, you will actually have allies this time around. The marines you'll 
 fight beside are well-armed and capable fighters who are also quite durable. Some are able to heal 
 you, repair your armor, or upgrade your weapons. I found them to be far more useful than the allies 
 in Call of Duty 2, who were little more than fodder who would often get in my line of fire.
  At any rate, Quake 4 is a classic FPS experience that should appeal to fans of the previous Quake 
 games and anyone up for a run-and-gun style shooter. From my experience, reports of frame-rate 
 issues have been grossly exaggerated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what it is about Quake 4 for Xbox 360 that doesn't quite hit the mark, but it just 
 isn't the same mind-blowing, nerve-wrenching Quake of yesteryear. Quake 1 was simplistic, but horrifying. 
 It was puzzling, but you kept going and couldn't stop. Quake 1's later enemies and maps were very 
 hard, but you didn't care... you had to see the end.
  
  Now, as for Quake 4, it's prettier, shinier, and more advanced, but why don't the weapons, gameplay, 
 and levels FEEL the same and blow me away like Quake 1 STILL DOES?
  
  I feel that the weapons are kind of weak and don't pack the same punch and powerful feel as the 
 weapons in Quake 1 (and Quake 2 for that matter) . It also seems that the levels are dull and uninspired, 
 with frequent backtracking and boring hallways. Where are the lava-filled temples of Hell? Where 
 are the button and switch puzzles that also required clever jumping and shooting to get past? Where 
 are the spider-b*tches who hurl glowing, spiky balls at you that home in on you until they hit 
 you or something else?
  
  These questions are what fans of the Quake series will ask themselves quietly in the backs of their 
 minds as they play Quake 4. There just isn't that magic in Quake 4 and it's a real shame. I get 
 the feeling that the developers just didn't know how to catch that right feel with the movement, 
 levels, weapons, and also the enemies.
  
  I do enjoy playing Quake 4, mind you, but it feels plasticky and glossy and not grungy and scary 
 .
  
  Maybe it's just me, but Quake 4 isn't what it could've been.
  
  It's worth checking out and playing though, but the multiplayer isn't what it used to be...... 
 dare i say it again..... as in Quake 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shifty_saint
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Now when i first saw the opening clip, i thought of two things, first they had stolen the slipstream 
 engine for halo (bastards) and Starship troopers, i mean what the hell?
  
  Apart from the obvious stolen idea's, the gameplay is rubbish, i have never liked Quake as a game, 
 but i thought redeeming the game for 360 was a good idea.. it wasn't.
  
  The ememy A. i is crap! i mean they just run at you, and after a while you think of a great turkey 
 shoot, and even that gets boring! the weapons are gay though i liked the assault rifle, most of 
 the weapons are so weird, it just gets odd that your playing such a game.
  
  overall, you would think that adding Halo, and Starship Troopers together would be amazing... its 
 just not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemimah666
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I played Quake 4 about 12 months ago on a medium to high end PC and having played both i can safely 
 say that this is a solid conversion.
  
  Graphics: Inside buildings on the most part the visuals look impressive however extensive bump 
 mapping shows up shortcomings when you look closeup at textures. The visuals on landscapes outside 
 are admittedly poor and look rushed, although not a large portion of the game is spent outside. 
 But as the gamespot reviewer suggests 'highly disappointing graphical performance' is a huge overstatement 
 and such minor 'issues' are easily overlookable. Gameplay:
  
  Similar to Doom 3, strafing whilst blasting your way through the game is very entertaining in short 
 to medium bursts. Powerful weapons that surpass the likes of ones found in Gears of War and Doom 
 3 are enjoyable and satisfying to use on an enemy that is more entertaining than Doom's and offer 
 more intense firefights. There are some sections where you are joined by fellow marines that again 
 offer some variation, although you do not issue orders. Vehicular combat is on the part ropey and 
 uninteresting espicially in the hover tank, a missed opportunity. Althogh controlling the walker 
 provides a more exciting experience. Single player campaign is entertaining and weighs in at least 
 12 - 15 hours + of gameplay, it provides more variety than similar shooters such as Doom 3 and 
 you will want to play on and complete the campaign.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Not the strongest point, and with supporting 2-8 players on basic deathmatchs it feels like a step 
 back into the past, not bad but nothing particulary entertaining or special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  I loved this game. It was just like Doom but with more characters and some huge levels. The game 
 throws you straight into a war between the humans and the Strogg and you watch your fellow marines 
 fighting alongside you. Kinda like Call Of Duty in Space. Then it goes back to its classic roots 
 of dark corridors and enemies which are huge so they just about fit in there. There is also a really 
 good scene where you are strapped into a seat on an assembly line and all you can do is look around 
 and watch as the Strogg turn you into one of them but your vusted oput before they take over your 
 brain and then your stronger and faster than you were before. The only let down is the frame rate 
 which seems to dislike a lot of gunfire in wide open spaces but other than this the game is a classic. 
 The levels are also very long and as a bonus you get Quake II included on the bonus disc which 
 if you like the older games double this lenghth of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rav44
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 28, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  this is an awsome first person shooter. my favorite part is the team mates. they have very well 
 acted emotions and you get to ubderstand conflicts between them. However, a very realistic feel 
 comes into play once you realize that any of the characters can die during any battle, so the ones 
 that you become friends with you will want to keep alive as long as you can more than you would 
 a new recruit. i think that the A. I. could be improved, but it is better than most games, such 
 as cod 3, prey, rs: v, etc.
  
  i would tell you to get this game, but that is against me. i just got this game, the date i got 
 it was may 24 2007. i hope you do not trash my opinion, but that doesn't mean you won't. if you 
 do not like this game, it comes with quake 2 as well. i found quake 4 to be more fun though. i 
 have many books about space marines and this is better than a book because you can see it all in 
 play. i have written some books as well about intergalactic wars and this has inspired me in many 
 ways. i love this game and i think you will to, just not as much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upeters
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't get it. I purchased a X360 a few months ago, to be able to play recent games without having 
 to upgrade my PC constantly. As I like the occasional shooter, I got a copy of Quake 4 to run on 
 my new console. I was able to finish the single-layer mission, and it ran without flaws. I liked 
 the game, and the hours of Strogg-shooting and puzzle-solving it provided. Honestly, I can't agree 
 with the review given here, which states that there are highly disappointing graphical performance 
 issues , which is the reason to give a score of only 6.6. It seems that the reviewer has never 
 heard of... Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion? How is it possible to give a game such a low grade due 
 to performance issues, at the same time when Oblivion - a highly rated game here - stutters, freezes 
 every 10 seconds to load further regions of the current map, and has sound issues as it easily 
 gets out of sync during combat, etc.? Don't get me wrong, I like Oblivion, but the performance 
 issues are much more glaring than in Quake 4, which ran rather smoothly.
  If there is something I should complain, it would be the user interface for the menus. In my opinion, 
 it takes too much key presses to save a game and go back into action, at the same time as the buttons 
 for navigating the menus don't respond quickly enough. But the game by itself is just plain fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wryze
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 16, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game when it first came out, at the time I was starving for a Halo 3 type of experience 
 and even though I read the review, I bought the game any way, and I haven't looked back since. 
 If it wasn't for the problems with frame rate in some parts of the game I would give it a score 
 of 8.0. Since 2005, I bought a HDTV and the game rocks on it.
  
  Sad to say it could of been better but it was an excellent look at what the future has to offer, 
 and a fun game to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas10soa
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 16, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  so quake 4 arrives on the 360
  
  first things first, if you have a great pc then buy the pc version forget about this version, Why 
 ae you even reading this?
  
  the pc one iis way better, but that said the 360 one comes with free classic quake 2 and still 
 comes with the great game that is quake 4.
  
  quake 4's graphacs are the weirdest thing about it, sometimes they look realy neet and great however 
 when you see the blood and guts they look realy blurry and look more like a good looking xbox game, 
 not a 360
  
  so has you have probably heard the 360 one comes whith some bugs and the frame rate can ruin some 
 parts of the game but to be honest, this is a awesome game even with its problems you can still 
 have a truly enjoyabe and memorable experience, so buy it...... if you cant play it on your pc 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehroze_96
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Well... i wouldn't say this game isn't good but it is OKAY. The graphics aren't THAT good , Don't 
 let me get started on the gameplay and the main story of the game is VERY stupid. People say this 
 game is VERY VERY good..... DON'T believe them. I played this game for atleast an hour the first 
 time i got it and i pictured myself as BORED... i still played it although. This game is totally 
 NOT GOOD. i mean... well.... it is so BAD. it is not the way i thought it would be. It was actually 
 an copy of DOOM 3 but they changed it a bit and made it less scary looking. The game is just a 
 REALLY BIG FAILURE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mzaher
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about Quake 4 i got so excited for 1 reason, GRAPHICS. i thought that graphics of 
 Quake 4 on 360 will be as good as those of Doom 3 on PC.
  unfortunately they are not, now i don't know what is the real reason, but it's like the disk contains 
 an emulator which runs the game on the 360 !! it is definitely NOT developed with the 360 specs 
 in mind. graphics are just disappointing in Quake 4, IF you played Gears of War or Doom 3. if the 
 game was expensive then i would not count any good in it, but because it is very cheap (costs around 
 38 dollars in Dubai, in the Middle East) , then it is worth a try. strangely, the game is good fun. 
 multi player mode is average (not even comparable to Gears of War) it is just ok. if you like FPS 
 games, get Doom 3 for a couple of weeks of fun. it is an easy game, much easiar than Quake 2 (included 
 in the package as a bonus disk) .
  
  but once you finish the game, know you are unlikely to play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cash_Wolf
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Quake returns with the same objective, kill the strogg, but now, you must kill their leader, the 
 macron, and also destroy the nexus so that there will never be any more strogg. You are Kane, you 
 fight against the strogg forces, and at one point, become one? Anyways this exciting and fun filled 
 game is truely stunning. With its wide array of guns, exciting multiplayer, variety of enemies, 
 and hours of gameplay. Quake has made a come back and has made it a big one. You should buy or 
 rent this game, if you don't have it. Quake has done it again. Happy killing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 for the Xbox360 is a really fun game. The bad thing about Quake 4 is that its loading is 
 very long. Other than that it's a good game. The storyline is that you are fighting a cyborg race 
 called the Strogg. Whats interesting is that the Strogg can turn Humans into Strogg. They do this 
 by cutting the arms and legs, replacing them with robotic arms and legs, and putting some type 
 of eye piece in either the left or the right eye of the Human.
  
  I know a cheat that will keep your character -- Matthew Kane -- alive for a longer time then he could 
 if he's getting shoot everywhere. The full health cheat -- B, A, B, A, Up, Up, Down, X and the Never 
 Die cheat -- Down, Up, Down, Down, Up, Right, Left, Right, Y, X, X, A. To do the cheat click the 
 back button for your Missions list then put the cheats in really fast.
  
  Fighting the regular Strogg -- the ones that look like Humans -- I recommend using a Shotgun when 
 you get it. Fighting the bosses I recommend you use the Dark Battle Gun then the battles will be 
 a lot shorter and much more easier.
  
  The Graphics are as good a Prey. The music is really good, and so is the storyline. Note: At the 
 end at the credits, I believe that the credits are the shortest one that I've ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigtruckseries
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 begins directly where Quake 2 left off. Earth is at war with a race of aliens known as 
 the Strogg and are currently in the throws of a massive invasion of their home planet Stroggos. 
 The Strogg are a race of cyborgs which cannibalize living organisms and assimilate them so they 
 can make even more horrific cyborgs to bolster their numbers. In this game, the player - Mathew 
 Kane must coordinate with other squads and Earth soldiers to infiltrate the Strogg's military industrial 
 complex and bring their barbarism to an end. The XBOX 360, recent PC computer technology and the 
 DOOM 3 engine allow ID Software to do things with the Quake theme that they always wanted to do. 
 Now the developers have the power to create massive environments with visuals that contain mixtures 
 of organic and metallic entities. This is especially important because the cyborg backdrop requires 
 it. All the creatures are a bloody mess of torn flesh and metallic implants. Their are horrific 
 experiments being done on humans (mostly involving them being disemboweled and/or amputated) which 
 the DOOM 3 engine allows the graphic designers to perfectly conceptualize. Take for instance, the 
 nightmarish situation where Earthforce soldiers are being beheaded so that their torsos can be 
 connected to fluid pumps to provide bio-electrical power for the Strogg facilities. Or take for 
 example the bloody limbs, bones and intestines of humans strewn all throughout the bowels of the 
 Strogg facility which are intent on showing you one thing: If the Strogg get a hold of you, they 
 are gonna tear you apart.
  
  And eventually they DO get a hold of you. near the midpoint of the game, Kane is captured by the 
 Strogg and forcibly amputated and then assimilated by the Strogg. Fortunately despite the pain 
 of having his legs and arms chopped off and having a huge needle jammed into his brain - his fellow 
 squadmates rescue him before he becomes completely under Strogg control. Unfortunately, The stroggification 
 of Kane is Quake 4's one trick pony. Up until and after that point in the game - Quake 4 is nothing 
 more than DOOM style gameplay. You simply move forward in a linear fashion killing any and everything 
 that is pointing a gun at you - just so you can move to the next room where you will do the same. 
 Sure this is the essence of FPS gameplay but, after a while it starts to get old - wandering through 
 corridors waiting for the next enemy to attack you while searching for the LCD panel that will 
 open the next door. Though the gameplay can feel repetitive, QUAKE 4's visuals keep the action 
 and the suspense moving at the pace of a horror movie. The game is also kept lively by giving you 
 plenty of squadmates to keep you company. They mention things that add to the backdrop of the story. 
 They also do a pretty decent job of laying down covering fire while you use your more advanced 
 and powerful weapons to gun down the Stroggs champion bots. The weapons in my opinion are a mixed 
 bag. We get all our favorite classic guns such as the Railgun, Rocket Launcher, the Dark Matter 
 Gun (this games version of the BFG) and the Shotgun. Strangely, many of the guns: the hyperblaster, 
 the machine gun, the nailgun and the lightning gun are simply rapid fire weapons that sound powerful, 
 yet dont take down enemies the way wed expect them to. For example: headshots do almost nothing 
 in terms of collateral damage to the enemies. Weapons such as the nailgun could have been made 
 much better if they actually pinned the enemy to the wall similar to the way they did in the original 
 Quake game. There are some driving sequences thrown into the game for good measure where you 
 can pilot a hovertank and a bipedal robot walker, but for the most part, they are simply slower 
 versions of straightforward FPS gun blasting. Many reviews I have read of Quake 4 show disappointment 
 in the games framerate on the system. This is mostly due to the fact that the game was adapted 
 to the 360 within a short time to meet the 360s launch date. After playing through the game, I 
 was able to see some of the framerate drops, however, I felt that they were not so bad that they 
 distracted from the gameplay. The DOOM 3 engine has problems with multiple enemies on screen at 
 once partly due to the immense memory requirements placed on the hardware by the dynamic lighting 
 of the environments. I experienced the same framerate drops in Quake 4 that I did in Doom 3 on 
 the XBOX. In fact, Quake 4 looks extraordinarily reminiscent to DOOM 3 since they both share the 
 same cyborg-horror theme. Quake 4s singleplayer experience is worth a single play through. On 
 top of that  since many people who may now have a 360 may not have ever heard of Quake 2 on the 
 PC back in 1995, Quake 4 comes packaged with a bonus disk containing Quake 2. This way, if your 
 willing to play through it, you can relive the first invasion of Stroggos and draw comparisons 
 of both games past and present. Unfortunately, the multiplayer  which should have been the strongpoint 
 of any Quake game  has remained unchanged from the days of QUAKE 3. The action in multiplayer 
 is fast. Too fast. You simply grab a gun and start unloading on the other guy mindlessly. You both 
 spawn close to each other so the killing begins almost immediately, but, when its all over and 
 the fraglimit is hit, the round ends abruptly and youre left wanting for more. Whats sad is it 
 is actually the multiplayer of QUAKE 2, that is the better multiplayer experience of the two games 
  yet Quake 2 only allows multiplayer across 360 systems, rather than on XBOX LIVE. I cant tell 
 you how many hours I spent online between 1995 and 1999 playing Quake 2. Possibly 100s of hours. 
 If Quake 2 was playable online it would have given so much more life to this title. Quake 4 will 
 take you approximately 8  10 hours to beat if you sit down and play it straight through. Unless 
 you have the time to set aside for it, renting it is probably not the best way to play through 
 it and see the ending. You may also consider waiting till its a greatest hit and buying it for 
 a reduced price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss11
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 18, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Where to start with this game well it plays exactly like Doom 3 on the Xbox and also looks the 
 exact same. This is not a good thing Doom 3 came out in 2004 this came out in 2006 2 years later 
 and worst of all it even though it is on a much sronger console it still has slowdown and frame 
 rate issues. The characters and environment also look like Doom 3 and the atmosphere feels sci 
 fi horror, Quake and Doom shouldn't feel the same the fact that they use the same engine doesn't 
 help either, this is a major issue. Any way enough of my complaining about the graphics lets complain 
 about the audio which isn't bad but its still average and there were times when the animations 
 and audio didn't sync up right. Moving on the game is a very standard FPS and doesn't do anything 
 innovative although it does add a flashlight to two of its gun's so it does try to be different 
 then Doom 3 in a least one way. The story is uninteresting and easily forgettable it takes place 
 after Quake 2 The Humans have gone to fight the Strogg on there home planet and end it once and 
 for all, but you really won't care what happens so it doesn't matter. About half way through the 
 game you are captured and and made into a strogg but before they finish transforming you your fellow 
 marines save you. This is where id really dropped the ball the could've done something really innovative 
 and give some new ability or something like Prey did with the spirit for. But no all you get for 
 being horribly deformed and mutated is 25 more health and armor, doesn't seem like an even trade 
 off if you ask me. This game couldv'e been so much better but we're left with a near clone of Doom 
 3 and I didn't like that game to much. If your a Quake fan well you probably already got it for 
 the PC, anyone else should buy another FPS for the 360 like Prey which uses the same engine and 
 is ten times better. If one good thing can be said about the game is at least you also get Quake 
 2 when you buy it so there a plus. Not much to a game that feels exactly like another game so pass 
 on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daewoo2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 14, 2007 3:33 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is all about a good sci-fi shooter that alot of fans of the series love and enjoy and the 
 good thing is its still there in quake 4 with a story thats really exciting.
  
  In quake 4 you play as a human soldier known as corporal matthew Kane of rhino sqaud, as a member 
 of rhino sqaud you are the teams scout who by looks of things looks like you just transferred in. 
 Throughout the game Kane will have to do perilous missions some on his own others with allied marines 
 which do help you. As you progress through the game you meet new people and new enemies that keeps 
 the gameplay intereting to a level as you never know whats around the next corner. In quake 4 the 
 aliens you fight are known as the strogg a diabolical race that assimilate other spiecies into 
 there culture just like the borg on star trek but these stroggified aliens and humans look alot 
 better and are more nastier. As you play through the game things start to get interesting story 
 wise people die or get stroggified as you will see and half way through the game something unbelievable 
 will happen to matthew kane that will change his life forever and you do get to witness it, lets 
 just say the (only way to beat the strogg is to become one of them.) If your a fan of shooter, 
 war games than this is a good one to go on because as you go around the levels you can see your 
 allies fighting in the background with guns and explosives shattereing the sky aswell as dead bodies 
 cut in half or something just littering the battlefield. You really get a feel for it thats very 
 immersive.
  
  Despite having technical difficulties on the xbox you only notice them in the most extreme firefights 
 but still its something that can be worked around.
  
  So for anyone looking for a sci-fi shooter with a great story and some frightning enermies with 
 big mad ass bosses than this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p3n15_4_ur_m0m
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  I remember back in the Doom days, Id softwares group of talented programmers. They spiffy this 
 game up graphically but don't do much to keep the story interesting or to keep you playing. You'll 
 feel yourself becoming bored with this much faster than most games. The action is repetitive, the 
 story uninteresting. We've seen it all before. Ever since Doom, Id has been making the same game 
 for 14 years and its time for a change. It wasn't overall a bad game, but there was a lot of things 
 here and there that could be noticeably improved. It's a cheaply made game, for a cheap price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBW059
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 15, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I love it. Much better than gear of war or lost planet. Very comparable to quake 2 on the pc. The 
 360 contol set up makes the game a pleasure to play and the action reminds me of Doom 3 on crack. 
 Great game well worth buyong 2nd hand and owning to comback to from time to time. The sone is good 
 however the phases of the npc get a little repetive at times. The stroy line is not particully 
 revolutionary but it is a series, do your realy expect more narrative crativity from Halo 3 when 
 it comes out. No you play quake because it is Quake. Overall a grat game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmogoon
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  There's no doubt that Quake 4 on the X360 is not a brilliant port. You'll find the loading times 
 are quite long, the graphics aren't quite as crisp as its other Doom-3-Engine Cousin - Prey, and 
 the frame-rate is much less stable. However, these performance issues really are few and far-between. 
 For most of the campaign, the game runs pretty smooth. It's just occasionally when there's kind 
 of a lot of things happening on-screen when the game seems to struggle and the frame-rate is kinda 
 sluggish.
  
  But for me this never took away any of the enjoyment of the game, since the game-play just totally 
 keeps you hooked. What i like best is how Quake 4 has still kept to the same tried-and-tested formula 
 for an FPS. There are about 10 different guns in the campaign including all the classics like the 
 Railgun, Nailgun, Blaster and all the rest. It's quite possibly the best set of guns I've seen 
 in a shooter, everyone is very different, with different ranges, accuracies and splash damage etc.
 
  On top of this, throughout the game you get some of your weapons modded, for example your nailgun 
 gets sorted with a zoom which makes the nails somehow lock on to your target. Awesome.
  
  The way enemies are thrown at you seems just about perfect. You'll have some more intense firefights 
 and then you'll have a little break from the action while you have to unlock some doors, jump around 
 and solve a puzzle here and there. Basically for me the game-play is a perfect mix of everything 
 a First-Person Shooter should include.
  
  Of course there are also a couple of vehicle scenes which break up the action nicely. Nothing amazing 
 but they seem just right.
  
  One of my favourite aspects to the game is some if the imagery. Some of the scenes will totally 
 stick with you after completing the game, which to me is important in a shooter. I need something 
 to identify it by, to set it apart from other games, and this game has plenty of interesting scenes 
 to choose from.
  
  If boss-battles are your thing then Quake 4 wont disappoint. Plenty of imaginative bosses are 
 thrown in your path to mix things up a bit, requiring some high quality circle-strafing on harder 
 difficulties.
  
  The game clocked in for me at 10 hours or so first time through, which was a perfect length for 
 me. The game's end kinda suited the storyline well and it felt right for it to end where it did. 
 Any longer it would have been overkill.
  
  Enemy AI in the game isn't anything special. but does the job. I mean a lot of them will kinda 
 jump about a bit making it a bit difficult for you to shoot them but its pretty predictable. The 
 machine gun-wielding orange dudes are a bit more advanced in terms of AI. They'll take cover somewhat 
 and wait for the right time to pounce, but they're still a breeze to kill.
  
  There's quite a bit of variety to the enemies in fact. More so than games like FEAR and FarCry. 
 The enemies in Q4 pretty much carry every weapon you can carry which makes the firefights a bit 
 more interesting. However the more dangerous ones are the guys who run straight to you and will 
 kill you in pretty much one full on hit, forcing you to get your act together or you're Strogg-fodder.
 
  
  Often you'll be fighting along side other marines, who actually seem to act pretty intelligently 
 considering its only certain portions of the game where you see them fighting. They've kitted out 
 all the friendly AI with their own voices too which makes the game seem more like a real war i 
 suppose.
  
  For me, on pretty much all levels, this game delivered. It's a faithful addition to the FPS genre. 
 The odd graphical hick-up here and there really did nothing to spoil this game for me. So all i 
 can say is - 6.6 my 4$$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCCHA
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: very linear first person shooter, a wide variety of guns adds to the fun a little bit, 
 but not much, upgradeable weapons is a nice touch, however the few and far between fun parts are, 
 well, few and far between
  
  graphics: terrible texturing and shaky framerate make for a lame portrait of bleh
  
  sound: 
 I hope you have some music saved on your hard drive because the dialogue is terrible and stupidly 
 written
  
  value: if you are a diehard fan than this is for you, otherwise buy some other game like Call of 
 Duty 2
  
  Tilt: of the launches games, this one was near the bottom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbrandowen
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  I Bought Gears of War about a month before quake 4 and breezed trough it in about 10 hours on casual, great 
 game but I fancy a good FPS I own, Perfect dark zero. Far Cry and Cod 3 and I must say that on its 
 own merrits is far better than all of the above
  
  Far cry: shooting 100000 guys that look exacly the same no boss stages
  Perfect dark zero: starts 
 briliantly but wears very thin to the end
  Call OF duty: 3 WW2 IN 3 HOURS As for Quake 4 if you buy this you get Quake 2 on the bonus disk, its 
 a great game diverse in all ways takink into consideration that it was a launch title you can see 
 how many things was stolen from it for above mentioned games, remember games are not always about 
 grafics I can name many games with awsome grafics but the gameplay sucks, but nothing wrong here 
 grafics very good gameplay awsome shooter no frils no fuss!!
  
  IF THE GAMESPOT RATING OF 6.6 IS BASED ON ONE INSEDENT THE PART ON THE RAIL WERE THE THE SOUND 
 CHUGS ,I THINK ITS ABIT HARSH AS ON MINE IT WAS ABOUT 3 SECONDS IF IT WAS THAT LONG
  
  I think the expectations for this game was a bit high to start with but now that there are more 
 games for 360 you defenitly need to look at this game again
  
  THIS GAME IS A 8.0 IF NOT MORE PLAY IT AND SEE FOR YOURSELF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  This game I am not going to lie to you it was fun and the only thing that I can really say was 
 bad about it was all of the graphical issues like for example I would finish a level and then the 
 game would freeze up and I would have to start over from my last save and I did not like that. The 
 game did have some good things like it included a bonus disc that had quake 2 on it and some behind 
 the scenes stuff. The story of quake 4 is well it about the Rhino squad going in and attacking the 
 strogg once again, but the best part about quake 4 is the really cool weapons in the game from blasters 
 to nailguns and not the kind you will find in you tool shed. Anyway this game is a great shooter 
 but with all of the graphical problems and glitches it kinda fall short of its true potential 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmastor
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 19, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  For every system their are games that come out at the right time for the right system for the right 
 type of game in this case it is Quake 4 for the xbox 360 that was a launch title.
  
  i brought quake 4 because let's face it nothing else was out for the 360 but kameo and fps call 
 of duty 2 while need for speed as well anyway for fps sci fi it was the only one and i had money 
 to burn! I though the game was great it's a fast pace in your face shooter. Yes fame rate can be 
 better but if you can get by that you wil enjoy this game the A. I is ok not gears of war but smart 
 enough the enemies are pretty easy to kill unto the end. The game have about 15 hours of gameplay 
 or more and when you starting to get tired of the game they give you new weapons and even upgrade 
 you. the story is cool and the gameplay is great with your fellow marines around you most of the 
 game giving you a full battle feel (not rambo) your friend can also provide you with health a good 
 reason to make sure they stay alive. the game end right on time with a clear ending (Quake 5 is 
 coming) right when you don't want to play anymore game done awesome lol. The multiplayer is a little 
 to fast pace for me but stay true to the quake roots. if you like it before you like it now issue 
 is not enough players over xbox live i think it's only 2-4 players get boring quick. The game over 
 all is a good pick up mostly when you need something to shoot and a game I believe all fps who 
 have a 360 should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  This game all too often get's overlooked way too easily by nit-pickers who deduct points for every 
 little minor performance flaw, forgetting that there is an ACTUAL GAME HERE.... and a rather good 
 one at that. At least Quake 4 has a good story with a long background behind it. If it were not 
 for games like Quake and Doom, there would be no Halo or Gears of War. Just a little fact there 
 that often goes without mention and seems to be all too easily forgotten these days. I for one 
 will take good ole' Quake over Gears of War ANY day.
  
  Gears of War may have better graphics and superior multi-player and online, but that does not make 
 it a better game as a whole. At least Quake 4 was longer than 6-7 hours long on the single player 
 campaign. It is at least a good 12 hours on NORMAL alone. The Gears of War weapon selection does 
 not even come close to that of the one in Quake 4. Dark Matter gun, anyone? Nail gun, rail gun, 
 rocket launcher, grenade launcher, machine gun, pistol? Oh, sorry, that's right.... Gears has a 
 chainsaw, right? lol. You also get armor in Quake 4, and you have to mind your health. You do not 
 get to hide and regenerate, like you do in Gears, therefore, it is more of a challenge. You also 
 at least get a few vehicle and mech levels with Quake 4 as well. So, the list goes on, continuing 
 to prove how great Quake 4 really is and how OVERATED certain other games in fact really are. Other 
 comparisons... let's see.... the Locusts Horde from Gears is a rip-off of the Strogg if I have ever 
 seen one. Gee, I wonder where they got that character design idea from? Give me an id/Raven software 
 Quake or Doom game ANYDAY over Gear of Graphics.... err.... I mean War. After all, they did set the 
 standard for FPS, thereby inspiring a whole new generation of FPS that we all enjoy today.
  
  People can gripe about framerate and graphical performance all they want. In my opinion, those 
 are HIGHLY overstated issues within Quake 4, as I hardly have experienced any jumpiness at all. 
 Maybe a little skip here and there, but nothing that takes away from the game at all. Not even 
 close. So, all in all, Quake 4 is a super game, that just got the short end of the stick because 
 of a bunch of nit-pickers who overlook the actual game itself because they instead pay too much 
 attention to the technical performance issues, and in my mind, that is just beyond sad. Too bad 
 they missed THE GAME itself, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jediboy071
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  This game was just amazing. The one thing I don't get though is why everybody is complaining about 
 the frame rate the only time it screwed up for me was on the tram but after that it worked fine. 
 I liked the way that in basically every level you had either regular marines or your elite Rhino 
 squad so you always had help if your dying. The AI was really good also the marines really knew 
 where to shoot and were especially helpful when they had the hyperblaster. The sound was basically 
 perfect, the humans mouths moved exactly to the words, and the weapon variety was ok. I don't exactly 
 like the fact that amazingly you're holding a 15 weapon arsenal because it's really non-realistic 
 there. I also love the way, when you need them, there's a medic or technician to heal you or your 
 armor instead of running around trying to find a medpac. When they got to the vehicle part thats 
 what kind of screwed up the gameplay. I would have rather had it choosable where you could choose 
 your own vision through the vehicle so it could be 3rd or 1st person (I would have rather had 3rd 
 person though) . The story at the beginning is great, you just land on the Strogg planet and you 
 walk right into battle. You also got the doom feel only it's like a mix between Doom and Halo where 
 your with marines but still fighting aliens. Overall the game was amazing like I said I thought 
 I was playing Halo 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarki983
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Well, Quake has finally made it to a console system, other than Dreamcast.
  This series has been around for some time now, always providing gamers fun in playing video games. 
 Quake will always stay on the PC, but this time Quake 4 is also available on the Xbox 360, there 
 are many differences between the two..
  
  At the start of the game, you'll see a soldier floating in space, soon he turns around, and you 
 realize his body is completely mutilated. Half his face is ripped off, ETC. Soon it will show dozens 
 of other dead soldiers, then it zooms into your ship, passing by the carnage. Soon your ship gets 
 hit, and crashes on enemy territory. And you're basically in a war against Aliens and such. The 
 graphics on the corpses are pretty bad, the wounds and everything. Also the graphics as well are 
 bad through out the game. Anyways, your ship crashes, and you're just trying to fight against the 
 war, like many other military game. The gameplay in it is good, but the frame rate of it is just 
 completely awful. Your screen is kinda jumping all over the place when your moving. There are only 
 a few guns in it, that use up alot of ammo, too soon.
  
  As the intro said, not even close to the best Quake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJesse77
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game picks up after the events of Quake 2. You play as Matthew Kane, a space marine who 
 has teamed up with one of the toughest sqauds in the UNSC, Rhino Sqaud. The Strogg are a ruthless 
 race, made up of an intertwined mix of human flesh and machine and have been driven out of earth, 
 back to thier homefront. The strogg are now cornered and you must put a stop to this evil, once 
 and for all.
  
  This game is your regular first person shooter, there's nothing in it that has'nt been done before, 
 but what it does do it does good. Its nice and fast paced, runs off of the doom 3 engine which 
 adds a nice touch to the graphics. The game does go unstable sometimes and seems to drop in framerate, 
 usualy due to lots of lighting going off onscreen, but when it is stable, it runs at a nice refreshing 
 60 frames per second. The game looks a bit blurry in HD, i'm not sure if its the same for an HD 
 tv becuase i was using the VGA adapter for my computer screen which isnt widescreen. Enough about 
 that, let me tell you about how great the game is. One thing you will notice immediatley is how 
 smooth the look is. If you push the analog stick a little bit, it turns slow. When you press the 
 analog hard, it turns fast. The sensitivty is just right and feels great so you are able to aim 
 and shoot pretty accuratley. The controls are easy to use, buttons are properly mapped, its all 
 good.
  
  The combat of the game is basic. Point and shoot, duck and cover, its what you expect of a quake 
 game. The fast pace nature of the game allows you to strafe and run around a lot so you don't have 
 to take time to cover or just stand there. The guns of the game are nicely designed and you will 
 use your whole inventory a lot becuase each situation calls for a specific gun. You start out with 
 a blaster that has infinate ammo and when you hold the right trigger, it charges up to shoot a 
 stronger blast. You then later find a machine gun, a nail gun, a rail gun, a rocket launcher, and 
 whole bunch of others. Depending on how hard the enemy is, calls for what gun to use. For the regular 
 grunt soilders you can use the machine gun and , well, I just use the dark matter gun on everything 
 becuase it shoots this big, purple vortex, killing everything in its path. They also made the guns 
 upgradable so that when you go though the game, your guns will get upgraded by engineers and do 
 something like, add a scope to the nail gun and make it faster rate of fire.
  
  The ai in the game is pretty basic, for the enemies that is. They will do stuff like pop out of 
 a shadow and stand there and shoot you. Thats what the strogg who shoot projectiles mainly do, 
 there are some that run at you and melee attack you. It was sort of funnny one time becuase one 
 of them actually chased me around the corner and i was scared sh*tless. The enemies in quake 4 
 get to be pretty hard as there are some that you just have to pack bullets into in order to kill 
 them.
  
  Now, i said the enemy ai is basic, your squadmate's ai are pretty smart. You will see them do stuff 
 like take cover or go into a room and look for strogg. When you're not in combat, you'll see them 
 checking corners and covering your back just so that if a strogg happens to pop out of nowhere, 
 and they will. You have some squadmates who ae medics and engineers and they fully replenish your 
 health and armor. Most of the game you have squadmates by your side and they know how to look after 
 themselves. The developers did a good job there.
  
  The story of the game seems to have the perfect sci-fi video game plot. The story will take twists 
 into dramatic things in which i don't want to spoil. The voice acting is amazing the game and you 
 will learn the character's different personalities. When something happens to a character, you 
 really feel the drama from it, the emptiness of the character's loss as if you lost a freind. It 
 was pretty cool to see that they had put Peter Stormare's voice into the game, he plays tis character 
 named strauss. Later on in the game, you're captured and turne into one of the strogg which is 
 actully a huge twist to the story and adds a little to the gameplay. Your able to use these hearts 
 that are on the wall that give you a lot of health which will now go up to 125 rather than 100. 
 Oh, and you can also read the strogg text.
  
  Sorry, i have'nt played pretty much any of the multiplayer to say anything about it, but i heard 
 it plays just like quake 3.
  
  So, quake 4 is solid and nice, controls are impressive, action is satisfying, story is good enough 
 to be a movie, if you are looking for a good game to add to your FPS collection, definintley buy 
 this game. Thats it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjaxams
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  This game has been given alot of flak for its performance issues . I for one think Jeff is an idiot 
 (6.6 my $&amp;@) . During my entire playthrough, I hit 2 spots where the framerate took noticable 
 dips. This is a very solid game, performance wise and gameplay wise. Its not the most mind blowing 
 FPS out there, but I loved it. Everything from your interaction with your fellow marines, to the 
 awesome weapons, this game is better than gamespot would lead you to believe. I've been around 
 since the first doom and wolfenstien, and have played more than my share of FPSs, but this game 
 stands out for me. Plus, its $20 new most places so why not take a chance. You might be pleasently 
 surprised like I was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BestGame92
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Wow, wow , wow! This game is just plain good. The graphics and environmental objects look stunning 
 and so do the enemies and marines! Also, the campaign is a good and improved edition to the wonderfully 
 made Quake 4 because its long, challenging and has four other difficulties to play through, so that 
 should keep you busy and playing for a while! And not to mention, the multiplayer is most likely 
 the best part included in this game. You can battle it out with friends with or without XBL and 
 the multiplayer will still rock! Oh and this game comes with a full version of Quake II to enjoy 
 so whenever your done with Quake 4, you still have that, and all that for the price of one game! 
 I think its a pretty much good deal. Unfortunatly, theres some problems with Quake 4 like framerate 
 issues and bad graphical performance on the X360, which are the biggest problems, but there both 
 pretty minor. And the sound is ok throught out most of the game, but sometimes its hard to hear 
 your fellow marines talk, though. But with the problems aside, Quake 4 is still a great game and 
 went through 2005,06 pretty much unoticed and I think it should be appreciated more! Well thats 
 my review, now its up to YOU to try it out and see how YOU like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth_Hurts_U
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  There is little to say about this game, other then the fact that it has a much better story... 
 When compared to other quake games in the series.
  
  It's a very standard shooter... Grab ammo, grab gun and grab armor... Shoot, shoot and shoot... 
 Zing and zag to dodge the incoming fire. You Also move at great speed... Which is needed to dodge 
 the bigger foes melee attacks and heavy fire.
  
  It has some issues with frame rate in some areas when there is a lot going on. But it is still 
 playable and not game stopping.
  
  If your a fan of Quake... This game is for you. If you like fast pace shooters this is for you. 
 But if you are on the ropes on this game... Rent it or look for it in your nearest bargain bin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 6018joel
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  the game quake 4 is not what you would call on of the top titles
  i find that the graphics are extremely good but this doesn't make up for the lack of game play
 
  the boss enemies are illogical for example the first boss fight is very difficult and then there 
 is the endgame easily played out with your eyes closed all you do is run around with a gun and 
 shoot monsters and mutants the storyline is a mediocre one i wouldn't advise this game to serious 
 gamers it's more for 14 year old boys who like a run and gun shooter
  
  greets joel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckybacker
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I think the Gamespot review is overly harsh. The world has changed and I have moved on from PC 
 gaming. I'm tired of buying video cards to keep up with state of the art games.
  
  When you port an Xbox 360 into a HDTV with a high end surround sound system that makes your chest 
 shake as the machine gun fires, you forget that the frame rate is as high as a PC during it's 15 
 minutes of fame.
  
  Pros - Incredible FPS great for the next generation of consoles.
  
  Cons - Long load time are a great opportunity to catch up on your personal hygene.
  
  Bottom 
 line - Fans of the FPS should bow in omage to John Carmack and the guys at ID for their work on 
 the genre. With out them, we'd be playing Donkey Kong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Korn420
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I recently purchased an Xbox 360 I was going to by PD Zero but went with this one instead and I 
 made a good one. Quake 4 looks freaking amazing the graphics most notably the lighting is just 
 awesome. The sound in the game is great with all the monster voices the gun shots and everything 
 else in between. In some spots the game slows down a bit and some of the textures aren't as great 
 as they could be but hey for a launch title it's pretty damn sweet. The only thing they should 
 have put on was co-op I loved Doom 3 and this game would have been even better and the monsters 
 bodys disappear as well which kind a sucks but again doesn't make the game terrible. Quake 4 is 
 a great game for the 360 one it's dirt cheap now online is ok graphics awesome and just a great 
 experience overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Partigiani
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  I heard lot of bad things about quake 4 for the xbox 360, but.... don&acute; t believe it. Unless 
 you have a extraordinary PC , you probably would prefer get this version becouse the graphics and 
 lightining are very good, the sound is great and the plot is just.... unbeliveble.... The Framerate.... 
 it isn&acute; t something visible and it isn&acute; t even 10% of what thos reviewers tell! one or 
 two parts after you pass 50 % of the game have a slow framerate , but as i said it isn`t something 
 notable and it&acute; s not slow is just.... not so fast as in other parts .If you are thinking 
 to get this game, but the framerate problem is making you think twice, don`t be fool , you won&acute; t 
 even see these framerates issues becouse they are so small! The Graphics are incredible, all those 
 dark places and facilitys and even the open places are very pretty, the marines and stroggs are 
 very well designed and are so perfect just as if you play this game in the pc! Sound.... alright 
 sometimes there are some problems to you hear things from other marines, but not a BIG problem, 
 if you pay attention to them you will understand them. But aftermath, the sound of this game is 
 very good , explosions , gunfires and screaming are very impressive! The visual of this game is 
 so good and GORY... it`s incredible the world that the creators of quake presents us with quake 
 4 , you see blood and flesh all over the place wich gives you a very scary feeling all over the 
 game. With all those marines tortured all around the facilytis and the stroggs coming out giving 
 you scares and ... if you really imerse in the actual game, you will really feel a little fear 
 wich is so great !!! more than doom 3 , i guarantee !! Plot!!!!!!! the best thing in this game!!! 
 it&acute; s so imerssive and well done ,it`s so cool . thoussands of marines disembarking in a planet 
 full of alien enemys and fighting until death! You are Kane a marine very quiet but.. deadly! you 
 are always called to do some crazy and difficult missions. By the half of the game everything become 
 better , you are captured and turned into a strogg by a very cruel form and almost become one of 
 them becouse a bunch of marines save you before they complete your mutation . SO, you are like... 
 A ROBOCOP FROM THE SPACE! now you are half man and half machine with the mind of a marine, and 
 the only thing that you want is REVENGE!!!!! you want to kill the last strogg for what they done 
 to you... and for that you are THE ONE that can change the tide of this war! ISN`T IT SO GREAT???!!!! 
 For all those reasons i tell you go get this game ,if you don&acute; t have a perfect pc and have 
 a xbox 360 dont think twice and go buy it right now, you will love it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madder128
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is the true sequel to the iconic first person shooter of the 1990s Quake 2, this game 
 skips the the storyline of quake 3 arena as if it never happened and puts you in the shoes of Matthew 
 Kane, A marine from Rhino squad.
  Story wise the game is set in the same timeline as quake 2 with the humans battling for survival 
 agaist the notorious and widely feared Strogg.
  Graphically the game is a technical wonder running of john carmacks doom 3 engine, This engine 
 is renowned for its excellent ability to show lighting in various forms throughout the game, the 
 textures on the game are very good apart from the odd bit of scenery which looks a bit rough to 
 say the least. Games like this show what the next generation of gaming is about.
  Although this game may seem a bit out of place next to technical giants such as gears of war and 
 the elders scrolls oblivion, quake 4 manages to deliver a good graphical experience you wont be 
 disappointed with.
  The gameplay in this game consists of your more classic run and gun shooting rather than a tactical 
 shooter, and is very similar to the game style of quake 2. You can tell Raven really wanted quake 
 fans to feel really familiar with the style of this game, if you loved quake 2 as a game chances 
 are youll feel right at home with 4.
  Although you cant help but feel this game could have had a new element to the game to make it more 
 an original experience rather than a gameplay clone of two.
  You cant fault Raven for trying though with the Mech like machine and Tank sections but these 
 parts of the game feel rushed and not as fun as they should have been. You sometimes wonder if 
 it would have been better to skip these sections of the game out.
  If youre a fan of your first person shooters youll need about 15 minutes to adjust to the learning 
 curve of this game, this is a good thing as the control layout will seem familiar.
  This game isnt too long either but proves to last about 8-12 hours depending on how good you are 
 or what level your playing the game on.
  Multiplayer wise this is taken place in arena style combat exactly the same as quake 3 arena, its 
 good if youre a huge fan of quake 3, but others who are looking for something new and refreshing 
 your going to be thoroughly disappointed. After this you soon begin to relise the multiplayer was 
 rushed and perhaps should have been more like quake wars or call of duty. Through these problems 
 though multiplayer can be extremely fun and addictive.
  The biggest flaw to Quake 4 is its very choppy frame rate on the Xbox 360, this game should run 
 40 fps like a breeze but jumps all over the place in various sections of the single player, sometimes 
 making it a very frustrating experience. The bad framerate is due to the game being rushed out 
 of development for the Xbox 360 launch and has ultimately paid the price for it. With more time 
 these problems could have been ironed out and made the game much more of a gaming experience, its 
 a real shame because the Xbox 360 could of made great things out of this game if it was utilised 
 properly, instead Ravens greed has spoilt this golden apple and made it more into a mundane potato.
 
  Overall although this game feels too familiar to its predecessors, if you persevere with the obvious 
 problems quake 4 has you will find a far from mundane video game. Youll experience a game that 
 demonstrates how fun a first person shooter should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  I am pretty much a fan of everything the company 'id' puts out. Doom is my favorite game of all 
 time. I loved the Wolfenstein titles. I really liked Hectic &amp; Hexen. I even have Doom RPG on 
 my cell phone. I loved the first &amp; second Quake titles, as well. With Quake 3, id decided to 
 make a multi-player frag-fest that became very popular. I have never liked the multiplayer side 
 of Quake, however. First person shooters like 'CounterStrike' are more my kind of game. So when 
 I heard Quake 4 was going to be geared toward the single-player side of things, I was very excited. 
 Especially when I heard it would be using the popular 'Doom 3' engine. I was shocked to read that 
 this game was getting very negative reviews. But I went out and bought this game anyways. Quake 
 4 has it's share of issues, but I am sure glad I went out and picked this game up.
  
  Pros: It uses the now-famous 'Doom 3' engine very well; the indoor enviroments are gorgeous; all 
 of the character models look strikingly realistic; really shows off the power of the Xbox 360; 
 even though the 'Doom 3' engine has been said to not handle outdoor enviroments very well, Quake 
 4 looks great outdoors (except for one part, but more on that in a sec.) ; a very cool selection 
 of weapons, especially the new 'Dark Matter gun' (a cooler version of a BFG) ; all of the weapons 
 sound amazing &amp; have uprgrades that you get later in the game that change the way you might 
 use some of them; the enviromental sounds are absolutely great and add to an already heavy sense 
 of immersion; to my surprise, the voice acting was very good; excellent use of lighting effects, 
 as expected; I found the 'kill everything that moves' type of gameplay refreshing, at least for 
 awhile; same online multiplayer as it has always been, if that's your thing; there is an actual 
 good storyline here........ well, at least for the first two acts of the game; lots of cool enemies 
 to shoot or blow up; the boss fights are pretty fun; the vehicle &amp; rail-shooting missions were 
 a nice change of pace; For a first-person shooter, the game certainly is longer than most (for 
 better or worse) ; the game has many 'wow' moments that you can show off to your friends; a nice 
 plot twist that was the worst kept secret in gaming happens about half-way through the game; it 
 comes with a bonus disc that has a bunch of nice features including a full version of Quake II 
 (which was an excellent idea that I wish more publishers would pick up on) .
  
  Cons: About two-thirds of the way through the game, you start to run into a lot of spots where 
 the frame rate plummets; I could probably develop Quake 5 in the time it takes for this game to 
 load a level or a saved game; while the voice acting is great, you can barely hear the characters 
 due to the muffling of everyone's voices; when you look out one of the tower's windows late in 
 the game, the enviroment looks awful; too many similar looking dark corridors to run through; the 
 look of everything in the game makes you feel like you are playing Doom 3, but less scary; the 
 gameplay is basic 'run-and-gun while you try to find switch' style, which could get old for a lot 
 of people real fast; while the single-player was obviously the main focus here, that left the multi-player 
 gameplay stuck back in the mid-90's; the achievement points aren't laid out very well, as most 
 of them are only available by playing the game online or the single-player game on different difficulty 
 levels; the last third of the game has you running through corridor after corridor and lasts way 
 too long; you do get achievements by playing through Quake 2, but they aren't worth any gamer points.
 
  
  Quake 4 is a success, in my opinion. Like I said, this game doesn't do anything to revolutionize 
 the first-person shooter genre and even feels dated in some spots. But I really like just playing 
 a game where I get a bunch of cool weapons and go kill some big, ugly aliens. I know a lot of people 
 don't want to play this type of game anymore and want more from their shooters these days. But 
 just like Doom 3, Quake 4 takes me back to a day when a game was just fun to play and didn't really 
 make you think a whole bunch. I find it funny that when 'Serious Sam' came out, a lot of reviewers 
 praised the game for it's basic 'shoot first, ask questions later' style and called it old-school 
 . But then when games like Doom 3 or Quake 4 do the same thing, they are called linear or too basic 
 . It really doesn't make any sense to me. If you want your shooters to be fun, then Quake 4 will 
 deliver that to you in spades. Not only that, but it's a pretty good deal since you get 'Quake 
 2' for free along with it. For some, this might be a weekend rental. But for me, it was a fun game 
 that gave me that 'old-school' feeling like I mentioned earlier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krystoval
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Its true quake 4 has a real problem with the frame rate its very slow in some places but is an 
 awesome game the design and the way that sorie is showing is excellents a lot of game wish have 
 somithign of quake 4 a lot. Its sure that is the best game of the Quake saga and the best story 
 too, the graphics builded in Doom III engine are very pretty and so dark the thriller is amazing 
 and if you like The horros action and scifiction FPS games you will love this game, this is a higly 
 addictive game because the story involved you so much and the desing and variety of enemies worth 
 the combat always. A detail is that the enemies vanish when you killed them and you cant aprecciette 
 the awesome detail tha they have all of them and I sure you the are so much,,, the detail of the 
 stages enemies are impresive so impressive the Id software and Raven Tema must design another Quake 
 like this game and focus in the frame rate and I sure of the Quake 5 could be one of the best FPS 
 games of all time,,, If quake 4 doesnt have the frame rate problem would be one of the 360 Fps 
 best games,, I higly recommend Quake 4if you like good stories and a worth enemies is a very impressive 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lemur911
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  So, we've all heard about the fantastic Quake games, and now it enters the next-gen fray... How 
 does it fair? Read on.
  
  First off, the graphics have very nice textures, but the models have rough edges, and aren't really 
 A-Grade, but are still worthy of being called next gen, sound is pretty good as well, making you 
 not only visually aware of your surroundings.
  
  Gameplay is the high-light, you are in one of the elite squads who are the last hope of the human 
 races survival against the malevolent Strogg, vicious, cruel, and extremely adaptive. You will 
 want to conserve ammo, for when you run out, it will be a while before you find another pack, creating 
 this sort-of survival horror aspect, which can be absolutely terrifying, enemies come at you constantly 
 making it a very twitchy shooter.
  
  Speaking of scary, the Stroggification scene is TERRIFYING, possibly one of the most shocking in-game 
 sequences to date... Not going to spoil it for you, though. Personally, I enjoyed this game, but 
 there are some rocky aspects to smooth out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementskate14
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a good game and deserves better then a 6.6 but the bad fps and the lack of any diversity 
 in the gameplay keeps this sequel to a great series from reaching its potential. The first thing 
 you will notice when u play the game is that it looks and feels like a xbox game and not a xbox 
 360 game. The graphics are alright and nothing amazing but they arent bad enough that it makes 
 u wanna stop playing. The gameplay is basically the same as other Quake games and very uninspiring. 
 The gameplay also gets very repetitive with entering a room and shooting enemies over and over 
 again. Quake 4 is a good game if your a fan of the series and the main thing that will keep you 
 wanting to play will most likely just be the achievement points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 For Xbox 360.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ===========================================================
  THE GOOD : Amazing Shooting Gameplay, 
 Graphics Are Fairly Good, Sound Is Good, Music Suits The Game, Sargent Morris Is AWESOME, The Story 
 is Amazing.
  ===========================================================
  THE BAD : Tech Newberry Is The Biggest N00b In The History Of Games, Level Desgins Get A Bit Repetitive, 
 No Super Shotgun, Some Graphical Glitches.
  ===========================================================
  
  
  
  Welcome to another of 
 me gta11s reviews, today i will be reviewing one of the best First Person Shooters I Have Ever 
 Played.
  
  If you are in tune with the good ol Quake series then you will know back in the late 1990s a great 
 game by the name of Quake 2 was released, Quake 4 is basicly the follow up story.
  
  Quake 4, it's certainly taken its time in getting here, it has been 6 years since Quake 3 Arena 
 was released. Quake 4 though has more in common with Quake 2, in that it has a fully devolved single 
 player mode and the multi-player takes more of a backstage role. This is the exact opposite of 
 Quake 3 which was basically multi-player only and had no storyline whatsoever. Quake 4 puts you 
 in the role of Matthew Kane, a member of the elite Rhino squad who are involved in the attack on 
 the Strogg planet Stroggos'.
  
  Gameplay : Gameplay is firmly in the love/hate column for those looking for a good old fashioned 
 pick the gun up and shoot the monsters, you're going to have a blast, the weapons are great, some 
 of the old favorites returning including the Railgun, Nailgun and Hyperblaster. There are loads 
 of monsters to shoot down, some of the best returning from Quake 2 but now looking a lot meaner 
 and there are some nice new ones too. Sadly for those looking for that something new and innovative, 
 apart from a few vehicles being added to spice things up, you're going to be disappointed, this 
 is Quake exactly as it always has been, in fact playing Quake 2 (which comes on the bonus disc 
 included) makes you realise just how much the gameplay has not changed over the years, but if it 
 is not broke don't fix it.
  
  
  Graphics : First of all lets get it out of the way, yes this game has an un-steady framerate and 
 is not as smooth as other launch titles like Perfect Dark Zero and Call of Duty 2, but please note 
 that these framerate problems have been greatly over-exaggerated by a lot of reviewers. From my 
 experience, apart from 1 or 2 moments in the second half of the game, the game was always very 
 playable and the framerate did not distract greatly from the experience. I must mention how good 
 the lighting effects are in this game, when you're indoors you'll see an vast array of great lighting 
 effects, from your team mates torches, to fancy Strogg environments and machines, plus the artwork 
 and imaginary gone into these sections is fantastic and a lot more varied than those found in Doom 
 3 (the game which graphics engine this game runs of) , outside environments do not look as impressive 
 as indoor, but do there job.
  
  
  Sound : Not outstanding but consistently good, the voice acting is very solid, nothing brilliant 
 but the chatting with teammates and various ambient sounds do help build up the atmosphere of the 
 game and place tension in the war between the humans and the Strogg. The weapon sounds meaty and 
 suit what they are (especially the Nailgun) .
  
  
  Now on to the Multiplayer. Basically think Quake 3 Arena but running on the Doom 3 engine with 
 some weapon changes and you're more or less there, I was a massive fan of Quake 3 Arena so in my 
 opinion this is great fun and certainly worth playing online. My only complaints are the limited 
 number of maps (download content is supported so maybe more in the future) and the match making 
 system leaves something to be desired, in some cases the loading of matches actually lasts longer 
 than the match itself, which is not a good thing. Yes it may feel a little dated, but it's great 
 to pick up and play due to its simplistic nature, and the thrill of a well placed Railgun shot 
 cannot be replaced.
  
  
  Overall you're going to get an enjoyable single player experience that will last you a good 10 
 hours, a simple pick up and play multi-player and a fantastic bonus in Quake 2. The graphics might 
 not be as smooth as I would have liked but do not make the game unplayable in any way. The multi-player 
 isn't as well developed as Quake 3 Arena but I was not expecting it to be in the first place. Overall 
 it's a good title that's certainly recommended to those looking for simple shooting fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Showmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a continuation of the storyline from Quake 1 and Quake 2. An absolutly awesome game! 
 Sure some people may not like it but in my opinion it is a sweet game. The multiplayer is especially 
 good. But the storyline is decent as is the gameplay that comes with it. If you buy this game chances 
 are you wont be disappointed. The enhanced version of Quake 2 is also a preety good bonus. Their 
 are other bonuses like the E3 2005 and the making of video which are good but the Quake 2 is preety 
 sweet. So yeah definently give Quake 4 a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sardax
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:10 am PT
Review:  The First Quake was like you were entering the world of the Strogg in their early stages of technology... 
 They were demons on the rough side of the rock...
  The Second Quake was better, it spoke to us High Tech Freaks with a more detailed storyline. With 
 more attention towards the storyteller you keep on ramming into the Strogg...
  The Third Quake was an abomination!!! Championships?? Tournaments?? Whatever!! A game is but a 
 game, unless it's not a game, than it is a really **** up game!!!
  No... Personally??? I like first person shooters in solo mode... But hey, I am a hermit, so that's 
 understandable... :-P
  And now: After hundreds of good games layed out on the designer-table, the developers managed to 
 bring out another good title for the Quake-Freaks!!! The story goes on where it layed down after 
 Quake 2... More immerging, more thrill, more horror!!! Almost impossible, but I did it after hours, 
 days, WEEKS trying... Trying... Trying... The end was like a little dissapointment... As if the 
 developers were tired after building this highly detailed game... Well it doesn't mind, I was kinda 
 tired as well... Esspecially when I looked at the clock and came to mention that it was 11 o'clock 
 in the morning while I was started about 5 o'clock in the evening... :-S
  Like Doom, with it's many parts... Wolfenstein... Halo... YOU JUST HAVE TO PLAY IT TO KEEP ON THE 
 HYPE AROUND IT!!!! IT'S YOUR DESTINY AS A PLAYER!!! Ofcoarse, you need to have liked the first 
 and the second one... :-P Whahaha
  
  Small corridors, playing with Light &amp; Darkness, Demons lurk around corners with devastating 
 power, an architecture so old and still so modern that your mouth falls open time after time... 
 A sick mind has to be, if you know what I mean when you look around... Sexually **** up mind perhaps... Decapitated 
 bodies... Do you do something bad with it while you are there? Could be... Nobody is around... 
 And if they do so, you just kill them!!! :-D :-D Whahahaha!
  
  Oh well... It's a good game... If I could decapitate my head, it still would say: It's a hell of 
 good game!!! Greetings
  Sardax (a. k. Vantazzy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuviousKilla
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing Quake 4, it was because I just bought a 360, and this is the only 
 game I could borrow. The game was fun at first, but by the middle of the second chapter, I realized 
 I was playing just to get the achievements. The bosses weren't challenging, and you could essentially 
 run thru the levels and still survive. However, after I started playing thru the game again, I 
 found it to be more fun, more addictive, then it was the first time. This game doesn't have next-gen 
 graphics, but it is still one of the best shooters currently on the 360's lineup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great multiplayer, very nice visuals, tons of cool guns and power ups, online works quite 
 well, single player is very enjoyable.
  
  The Bad: The single player looks a bit too similar to Doom 3, the controls seem too loose, it can 
 be hard to target online.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  So, Gamespot gave this game a bad review hua? Well, it's time to dispell all of the bad hype the 
 360 version of Quake 4 has gotten. It's a great game that plays great online and off. I didn't 
 notice any of these major graphical glitches that GS said was in the game, but I'm also on a regular 
 TV, so they wouldn't be as noticeable. This game has great graphics, solid sound effects and a 
 fast and frantic multiplayer mode that will make longtime fans of the series proud. This game is 
 actually a continuation of the story of Quake 2, since Quake 3 was only a multiplayer game. You 
 are a marine who must run and gun your way to victory over the Strog. The guns of Quake 4 are very 
 Unreal like, but still a lot of fun to use and not too bland. The visuals are very impressive, 
 but look a little too similar to Doom 3. The sound effects are also very well done, but not as 
 well done as Doom 3's very atmospheric sound effects. The single player is fun, but the multiplayer 
 is where the most fun is at. There are plenty of multiplayer maps to choose from, all strait out 
 of Quake 3 with all the weapons and action you'd expect. The lobby system similar to Halo 2's works 
 well and should be included in most online shooters. The only major problem for online play is 
 that the controls seem almost too loose. You turn and you turn way to far over, and it's hard to 
 get a direct shot on a moving enemy when you have to constantly adjust your stance. It's not a 
 bad enough problem to keep players away, but it can be annoying at times. Overall, Quake 4 is a 
 great single and multiplayer game that shooter fans should pick up. It's also much better than 
 GS said originally.
  
  Gameplay: Classic run and gun shooting from the previous installments returns well in this version.
 
  
  Graphics: The Doom 3 Engine works very well in Quake 4, but it also makes the game kinda look like 
 a copy of Doom 3.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are solid, but not as well done as they were in Doom 3.
  
  Value: 
 I got this game for under $30, which is a great deal for 360 owners looking for a very enjoyable 
 shooter.
  
  Final Thoughts: Pick this game up, it's worth playing in almost every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 6.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game seemed good, but after a while its just plain borning. This game offers good praphis 
 but the bad frame rates ruin it. Short Single player and Realy bad mutiplayer makes this game even 
 worst. THis game just seems to much like doom and isnt much better than the other quakes. The storyline 
 can be pretty decent and not worth the preice tag. IF u have a pretty good pc and can run this 
 get it for pc. Borning SIngle player and Old Mutiplayer are not worth the price and this game was 
 a BIG letdown. ID software u messed up this time, big time. This game is not worth a rental nor 
 buying, i dont think the game is worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk5eye
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I avoided this title like the plague because I judged a book by its cover or more so in this case 
 by id previous creation being Doom 3. This found to be a grave mistake as the game its self was 
 very good. The interaction was very good but with so many graphical mishaps, at first it was hard 
 to look at but after many hours play I found a new appreciation for this game. The technology they 
 used for the lighting (Walking in from the dark into the light and seeing the effect of doing so.) 
 is very clever as it gives a mood or atmosphere if you will to the game. Game play was solid not 
 groundbreaking but good all the same and the multi-player is fast and action packed. And adding 
 Quake 2 into mix was simply inspired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Yep, that is right. The Multiplayer is so bad it actually effects your single player experience. 
 My advice is to rent it, beat it and then return it without even looking at the multiplayer. The 
 multiplayer is laggy and it is that same run of the mill run around and shoot people aimlessly 
 with a bunch of lag. Even if it did not lag it would still be lame. Or, atleast it lagged when 
 I tried it like a month ago. The Multiplayer is just like Doom 3 competitve mode. You know, the 
 mode that they should have just left out. I am one of these guys who are always whining about more 
 content, but if you are going to put something like this out, dont bother. Ok, now that we have 
 got the multiplayer deal out of the way. Lets talk about the single player experience which is 
 quite impressive. Great voice acting, they got some big talent in there. Also, the graphics are 
 nice as well. Out door environments look very good, it is just too bad that they wanted to run 
 you around inside for a long time for a while. That would have been its biggest problem. Repetitve 
 in door environments, just like in Doom 3. Whenever you get to run around outside, which is a nice 
 change of scenary, it is very well done. Looks like a big war is going on and you are right smack 
 in the middle of it. Driving around in tanks and other vehicles is also fun. Makes the game feel 
 bigger because the vehicle scenes are pretty long. A lot of really cool boss monsters to slay. 
 That is probably the biggest plus for this game. The big boss monsters just look so stunning and 
 cool. I also like running around with your AI buddies. It is actually quite fun running around 
 with them and shooting up everything. It is really cool just to watch your squad mates fight. Shows 
 off a lot of cool animation in the game. The AI squad was so cool to run around with it makes me 
 wonder how cool an online coop coould have been with even more then two people. Maybe like with 
 4. Also, defend the base against computers would be fun to. But no, none of this could happen. 
 Instead they decided to wow us with there competitve online mode. This is yet another game for 
 the 360 that is leaving me saying, if only. If it had something like what I mentioned with CoOp 
 online, I would have given this game about a full point more then I did. This game is better then 
 Doom III and Prey. Please do not play Prey, play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nab33l
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  quake disapointed me alot as well as other quake ffans out there with a pooor graphical performence 
 not a good sound and a fair gameplay the game lacks many gameplay issues and a pooor online support 
 sound is poor as well as communcation vehicles r not tooo goood weapon upgrades r goooood and weapons 
 themselves tooo the game has lack of effort as pc version was a bit good but this is a pooor from 
 that even the game should be named earthquake now by seeing its performence at this point the game 
 has not used xbox 360 power fullly as it has huge frame rate problems 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halo2_fan391
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is very simple and very easy to get good at fast. There are quit a few weapons you 
 can get but you actually dont do a whole lot of killing strogs. (the enemy)
  
  The graphics aren't very good for a 360 game but good enough, no complaints. The frame rate is 
 pretty good.
  
  The sound is awsome!
  
  If you have a 360 then i recommend buying this for 30-40$ unless it costs more. Online no one is 
 ever on which is a dissapointment.
  
  It isn't very hard and lasts about 15 hours.
  
  Storyline: The story isn't much but youre in a ship that crashes and you get a gun and start killing 
 and taking orders. The machinegun is probably the funnest to use. Overall I give this game an 8.7 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimyGoblin
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 8, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  Quake IV, like it's console predecessors was supposed to be great. Unfortunately, they failed again, 
 just like with all the previous versions for consoles.
  While the Single Player game offers some nice sections, and satisffies your need to frag, the Multiplayer 
 game is awful. Now, I know it's hard for any game to match up to Halo 2, but, you'd expect it to 
 at least look better than an XBox game from a few years ago, and, you'd have thought they'd have 
 learned how to sort out the weapons too... Nothing worse than firing your weapon into a mass of 
 enemies, only to see you shot miss wildly, the collision detection is non existant....
  I really wanted this game to be good, and it's saving grace, is a decent single player game, and 
 a great conversion of Quake 2 supplied with the limited edition version...
  
  All in all, not bad if you need to pass some time alone...... :/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kai_311
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The Quake Series is one of the best FPS that i played during the old days in my PC gaming and now 
 that its in X360, it delivers the same action and memories that i enjoyed.
  
  I played the campaign for two nights, roughly 10 hrs of gameplay with the rank of lieutenant. It 
 has the best gameplay, its fast and fun. The AI in the game is also good especially the marines 
 that are with you. This marines are very usefull not only to help you fight but they also heals 
 you and recharges your armor, not to mention you need some of them alive for the achievements. 
 This game is most likely to be compared with Doom 3 in the original xbox because its uses the same 
 engine with a next gen graphics. The multiplayer part is also fun. It does best what Quake is suppost 
 to do but i have to admit that i want something new.
  
  On the second part of the game the frame rates gets down but I think its not enought to rate this 
 game as 6.6. The achievements are also a problem because mostly you can unlock them in multiplayer.
 
  
  So if you are a fun of FPS games you have to try this game. Its fun and I have a lot of great time 
 playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeof-persia
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 5:37 pm PT
Review:  You might think, hey the PC version of it was good, and it looks good, right. Wrong. The game has 
 a few flaws that hampers how it runs, but with that aside, it is a fun ride. The game runs off 
 of the Doom 3 engine, which is good, but the creatures in game look a bit like of what you see 
 in wax doll shops. How ever, the environment is done well, and so are the weapons. It is good sounds, 
 but the music cuts off in some points in the game, and with that, one might want to turn off the 
 music in game, and turn on your own tracks. However, this is one game that one should rent before 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matti9845
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  It's a good game, it's not an amazing breakthrough Like Oblivion or Halo but nevertheless it is 
 still a fun game to play. While the graphics aren't really up to scratch for the 360 it's still 
 reasonably good. The single player is good and enjoyable with a variety of enemies and some fun 
 bosses. It also adds the cool twist of Stroggification where you become an alien but are saved 
 at the last minute before you have your brain wiped. The single player is good but it's the multiplayer 
 thats the extra fun part. In the multiplayer there are a few different game types including, tourney, 
 death match, CTF and team death match. All these games are fast paced and on par with UT 2004 fun 
 wise. The only real let down of the multiplayer is that there are no vehicles. The weapons of Quake 
 4 are all really fun and original. Overall I would recommend that you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casteye
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Well ive played all the Quaks and this one is the best. when i first started i was like Uh but 
 then in the middle it got really good and interesting very good sounds. i was playing it in the 
 night and i almost peed my pants couse it is scarry a monster pops out of no-where im like AAAAAh 
 lol. but other than that this game is very good i tihnk if you like any other game like doom or 
 any other quake you would like this one. its really real but i think they couldave done something 
 a little bit better like in the Quak 2 when u kill a monster there body stays ther dosent dissapear 
 and u can shoot it and it turns into little pieces like if you cut it or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScorpionXLord
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a very ambitious game, for it was to continue a great series that seemed to be the king 
 of FPS... but alas it turned up to be just another FPS that dose'nt do anything new for the genre. 
 by far its best attribute is the sound... the graphics can sometimes glitch and freeze. overall 
 this is a renter... not for buying... just another renter. just do a google search for quake 4 
 xbox360 graphics issues/glitches and you will get HEAPS of people whinging that their game looks 
 like it's THPS4 in disco mode.
  
  this is just my opinion and i respect everyone elses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniacgamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 15, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 for the Xbox 360 is amazing! Astounding graphics that almost want to make me cry because 
 I can't beleive it looks so good. It runs smoothly and the controls are good for even someone that 
 never seen a 360 before. There is a good variety of weapons to take advantage of and the game keeps 
 you on your toes the whole way through. This is a solid game for the Xbox 360 that you can't pass 
 up and if you own a 360. Its been out for a little while so the price should be reasonable. the 
 only problem I had with this game is a small one. If you play it again you already know where every 
 enemy is and how to get past a area with ease. Like I said now big deal but eventually you will 
 get tired of this game. I would spend about $35-$40 based on its value in my opinion and I highly 
 reccomend this if you have a Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reilly86
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Once again Quake returns to it story style play after the excellent Quake 3 Area, but sadly is 
 let down by problems that should have been addressed before selling.
  
  Game play  (7) the game plays like any other first person shooter that is currently available 
 and doesnt try to improve on it either. There is sadly no melee attack which would be useful when 
 surround by an enemy or if the enemy is running towards you and the weapons that are available 
 are unoriginal and boring. There is the usual pistol, Machine Gun, Shotgun, and explosives like 
 rockets and the last weapon which is a Dark matter gun. A big issue with this game is its darkness, 
 like we saw in DooM 3 the levels are covered in complete darkness and most of the time require 
 the uses of a touch which is only available for the pistol and Machine gun. This isnt much of 
 a problem to start with when the enemies are easy to kill but when enemies like the Gladiator arrive, 
 guns like the Nail gun and Rockets are needed to be used and with the increasing darkness most 
 of the time the only option is to fire blindly into the dark.
  The levels are a huge let down at the end of the game, the reason is because there are three towers 
 which must be climbed up to active the switch to open a portal. But the is no lift straight to 
 top instead it requires trending up corridors until you reach the top, active the switch and come 
 all the way back down, but wait there more once youve done it once it has to be repeated twice 
 more at two other towers. The enemies are very well programmed though and if need be will hide 
 behind boxes until it is safe to fire, but most of the time the charge at you while firing bullets 
 all over the place. Most of the enemies are updated versions of ones that were seen in Quake 2 
 and all act in the same way, but there are still many different original monsters which seen to 
 increase in power and strength the further into the game you progress. The biggest problem of all 
 is the frame rate when a lot is happening. It can be hard to play and very annoying witch sometimes 
 results loss of heath or even death. Loading is also a factor, it can take what seems like forever 
 to load a new level and if you die while playing in the level then the loading starts again. Very 
 poor for a next generation game.
  
  Graphics (7) the graphics are well presented and look similar to what was seen in DooM 3, which 
 is what stops it from looking like a next generation game. The detail is more like the original 
 Xbox quality then Xbox 360 quality. Up close some of the control panels and walls do look detailed 
 but Backgrounds are the weakest point in this game graphically. The reason is they dont look in 
 the slightest real, it is more like paintings which have been placed at the back and have no 3D 
 feel to them at all, much like the old FPS of the mid 90s. There isnt much difference in level 
 design, as the levels all look the same. If the level is outside then it is just desert and rock, 
 and if it is indoors then it is just steel and metal. Although in the middle of the game there 
 is the waste vent were there is hundreds or dead bodies all over the place it is very well detailed 
 and realistic looking but does go a bit over the top with it and is a little bit sickening and 
 unnecessary But there are some very good lighting effects and shadows, and the characters also 
 look well presented and believable.
  
  Sound (6) The sound is hard to comment on, there is music in the game but most off the time its 
 droning mumbling noise you can hear in the background and doesnt offer any kind of atmosphere 
 like the music found in the Resident Evil games. It does pick up some tempo at times when been 
 attacked or a mission is in progress but still doesnt excite the player.
  Sound effects are boring, most of it is bangs, gun fire and machine ticking over but not much more 
 then that.
  The voice acting is very good, well recorded and clear.
  
  MultiplayerThe multi player is very good but is random for who you play. It is in the form of 
 are small area where you fight for survival and try to get more kills then anyone else. The is 
 some times a lag in game play which proves unfair if you are killed as a result. The is no split 
 screen play.
  
  AchievementsMedium to Hard, Most of the achievements are for online play and are things like 100 
 kills for a very small amount of gamer points.
  
  Value (7) If you are a huge Quake fan then you might be able to see past its many problems but 
 I would strongly recommend you consider renting it first or buy the PC version. At 50 it is a 
 lot of money for a game that falls short almost every time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eatpepsi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is one of those rare games that enable you to experience sheer fun and scare at the very 
 same time.
  
  What amuses you about the game is that even though it utilizes the same 2 year old doom3 engine, 
 yet it shares only this similarity and takes a total departure from the John Carmack brain child 
  Doom3. The result is an amazing game with gripping action and an unbelievable background score.
 
  
  The game takes off from where Quake 2 left off. Youre a lonely HERO fighting your way to save 
 the earth yet again from the clutches on an evil (stereotypically) alien race trying desperately 
 to erase mankind from the face of the universe.
  
  The game is a typical run and gun shooter with occasional button pressing, lift calling, it mostly 
 has a linear game play .The great thing about it is that when you are just about to leave the game 
 for tomorrow due to the monotonous run and gun, the game changes the pace and to your surprise, 
 amazes you yet again with new plot and game play tactics.
  
  Considering Quake 4 as a system HOG is an understatement. The Doom 3 engine is so well programmed 
 that even a year old PC with AGP solution and a mediocre amount of RAM and processing Power doesnt 
 let the fun tone down with the visuals. But dont let its compatibility fool you, because if youre 
 fortunate and have an Enthusiast level PC in your room, you are surely in for a treat.
  
  The visuals are stunning and the effects are well rendered .What separates this from Doom 3 is 
 the utilization of a broader color palette. The game is beautiful to look at. With the recent inclusion 
 of SMP, the quake 4 engine utilizes multiple cores to push the frame rates even further. So if 
 u have a dual core CPU you are surely going to notice an advantage at least up to 1280x1024, above 
 that the game is still GPU limited.
  
  Considering you have played Doom 3 and my constant comparison of that game with Quake 4 I think 
 its safe to say that you would have guessed by now that the environment is mostly packed with 
 large machinery and wheels and knobs moving constantly producing some sinister product to destroy 
 humans.
  
  The game puts you in some vehicles a few times with unlimited ammo and hordes of aliens to test 
 your trigger at. These parts of the game are a bit less for my taste, but they do come late in 
 the game, which is sad, because its very nice to play those scenarios.
  
  What sparks the game into light is the background score, which amiably gives you the sense of a 
 large scale attack and ignites passion and emotions just in the right doses at the right moments 
 of the game. The score is well complimented with occasional radio chatter and your squad chats. 
 It just adds to the realism the game has already created and delivered perfectly!
  
  The game has a range of difficulty levels to choose from. An average FPS player wont have a hard 
 time gunning the game down in 10-12Hrs at moderate difficulty. The game upgrades some of your weapons 
 and adds some new ones couple of times through the game, which more than makes a decent pack of 
 weapons for you to fight with.
  
  The opponents also jump the bar to keep you busy in the not so great ire fights. By not so great 
 I mean nothing amazing and flashy as FEAR but nice in its own way. The multiplayer of the game 
 is not something brave, but does the job to make your moneys worth. It wont be long before you 
 just drop it and move to games like BF2 and UT2k4.
  
  The whole feel to the game is a bit unbalanced, the guns are loud and fun to fire, but lack that 
 definite punch. Theres just not enough crank in the shots to pound the aliens away (you will notice 
 that in games like Far Cry and FEAR) . They take the shots stationary and dont even budge. I think 
 that is a one big let down I felt after playing the other shooters incorporating intensive rag-doll 
  FEAR.
  
  Overall, if you like FPS and have endure the doom of DOOM 3, then I guarantee you that the game 
 not only holds the key to your fun, but also doubles as a great benchmark tool for your PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthchicken64
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  I first looked at Quake 4 and read the back of the case. It looked reasonable enough, so i decided 
 to rent it out. When i got home and turned it on i thought that it would meet expectations. The 
 first level contains what you would expect from Quake, usual weapons like shotguns, machineguns, 
 explosives etc. But when i had played for over a few hours i noticed that the game was not really 
 getting anymore exciting. I really thought that the action was going to intensify by 80% but really 
 it pushes itself to a measly 10%.
  I cant say that its a crap game but i just advise you to pay around 30. I also advise to get the 
 PC version as it seems to have higher quality of keeping sharp with its graphics. The 360 vesion 
 im afraid has a few minor glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshv53
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good first person shooter. The levels are challenging, but navigable. Some points 
 of the game do seem a lot like Halo and the alien species names are very similar to alien names 
 in Halo. However, unlike Halo there is a certain scare factor to the game, some parts of the game 
 are a bit freaky. The lighting could be better in parts, detail is lost here. The bosses are uncharacteristically 
 easy. If you do'nt beat a boss the first time you face them then you definately will on a second 
 time. Also, predicting when you will face a boss is very simple since there is conveniently enough 
 armor, health, and ammo near by to fuel an army. All in all, if you enjoy unmercifully killing 
 alien with a huge assortment of weapons then this is the perfect game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fullmetal34
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This game has its moments, like shooting a strogg in the head with a machine gun. But, we can't 
 always focus on the good can we? While the story was great the end with the cliffhanger was kind 
 of annoying... they didn't go anywhere with the stroggification part its like your a strogg... 
 all that changes are the access to healing torsos. The final boss was a yawn, way to easy even 
 on general difficulty. But, lets face it it was fun, but it was short... too short i think the 
 gameplay clocked at... 23 hours for me, but it was fun as hell! The weapon set... amazing... The 
 gameplay... amazing and it set off from the generic FPS! If you find it discounted, buy it... otherwise 
 just rent it. i give it a 8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthkwake
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  When i started to play the game i never thought it was the sequal to quake 2. I played quake 2 
 and remembered fighting this giant alien guy call a makron. But as i played quake 4 i never would 
 have guessed it was the sequal. You play the role of corporal matthew kane, who was just a normal 
 soldier. But as you progress further you soon turn into the alien you killed many of... a strogg. 
 And soon enough you become earths only chance to win the war. Online mode is kinda lame due to 
 the absence of online players playing it. All aside it is a decent game with pretty cool plot, 
 but dont expect to play it again if you get bored easy. (Just kidding... but not really.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkGoldenShado
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I am actually very disappointed in this game to tell the truth... I figure with the new top of 
 the line system it should be running great! Error, wrong! All I hear from people is that their 
 Quake 4 game doesn't work half the time. I have never had this problem personally... But I will 
 say that this game is boring. With its on-line matches aren't very great either. The modes are 
 pretty lame and the people who actually do play it are never on. Then the story line for the game 
 is alright. Just I didn't care too much for the game play or the visual effects of it. All in all 
 I don't think this was a great game and a waste of money. Very disappointed to own it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke_232
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is overall a pretty good shooter for the Xbox 360. I do not think it deserves a 6.6. The 
 only time I found the gameplay slowed down was when you were on the tram car with a machine gun 
 on it. The game has an array of unique weapons to choose from. My personal favorites are the shotgun 
 and the machine gun. The controls and style of gameplay are easy to get used to especially if you 
 have played other shooters before. As a first timer to the series I must say I am impressed with 
 the story line. It is creative and full of cool twists. Playing the game through the first time 
 through I played it at normal and it provided a challenge for me even though I have played lots 
 of other shooters. In my opinion the graphics ar pretty clear and crisp. The textures of the characters 
 and the environments are pretty stunning. I would have to say the area the game lacks in is the 
 multiplayer. I find that the maps are to small and mostly indoors. The characters in multiplayer 
 move way to fast so pretty much all you do is running around shooting at blurs and there is a large 
 amount of luck involved in hitting the target. There also is not enough gametypes to keep it interesting 
 just your basic deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. I would have to say the multiplayer 
 is where the game falls. Quake 4 is an overall good game and is worth Buying. Give it a Rent first 
 to see if you like the style of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerBD89
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I think Quake 4 for the X-box 360 is a great game single player wize. Although once you beat the 
 single player and you start playing the online multiplayer then you start to get bored. I had alot 
 of fun playing the single player, but once I tried the online multiplayer, I was pretty bored of 
 it after 15 minutes. Bottom line for this game is if it recieved an update for the multiplayer 
 this game would be alot better. I don't know if anyone else agrees with me on this but I think 
 the game's single player is worth the price, but dont buy it for the multiplayer.
  
  My ratings:
  Single Player Quake 4 (X-box360) : 9.0 out of 10
  Multiplayer Quake 4 (X-box360) : 
 5.7 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urbanfreeflow
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  well ,
  i bought this game by reading the quake 4 review in ign. con , im betrayed and i think this game 
 is a rubish just a rubish , 
  
  the single player is just like you are hanging around in some rooms sometimes you must kill some 
 freakin creatures and sometime you must just go around and around and around , 
  
  the multiplayer is some how the goal of this game , well the multiplayer i accept it to be a good 
 scorer , any way not a grate one ,
  
  scince you can play tom clancy i purely recommend you to play tom clancy instead of quake 4 , 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhink3
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a cool game, but it's just ashame that the graphics aren't the way you would want next-gen 
 graphics to be. The A. I., your men, you, and your guns are probably the only next-gen looking graphics 
 in the game yet I think that the backscapes and environments are just plain poorly done. Maybe 
 they released the game too quickly or maybe the change from PC to the 360 was just too complicated 
 I don't know. What I do know is that Quake 4 is a game that grows on you over time, and if you 
 play it enough you get used to the graphics and gameplay and you actually have some fun playing 
 it. Online may not be too exciting, but if you like fast-paced action and first-person shooters 
 you may want to pick up this game. If you were a fan of the Doom series then you may also enjoy 
 this game, but if you're not big on any of those things and you must have amazing graphics then 
 this most certainly is not the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  i was expecting so much from this game but it repetative and boaring you do the same thing over 
 and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again and it is so boaring 
 i lost 7 hours of my live over this game i will never get back. also to add i cant say anything 
 about the multiplayer because no ones ever on and i can see why this game sucks. the frame rate 
 goes down at big spots in the game and the game can really lag and its fustrating. if you really 
 want to play this game then play it on the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Released about a month ago on the PC, Quake IV has now arrived on the Xbox 360and the results 
 are a mixed bag. On the positive side, this action-packed shooter is now available on the new console, 
 with its visceral thrills, run and gun mentality, and fun-but-derivative multiplay. On the other 
 hand though, the technical side of this Doom 3-powered game falters noticeably on the 360s hardware, 
 which is absolutely insane. And, since the shooting action is so bare bones, it begins to wear 
 thin throughout the rather lengthy single-player campaign. When you get down to it, there is a 
 good game in Quake IV, but with such serious competition, youre better off renting this one.
 
  
  Quake IV actually picks up where the second game in the series left off (since the third iteration, 
 Arena, was multiplayer-only) , and youll once again be against the half-organic, half-mechanical 
 Strogg on their home planet. However, youll be assuming the new role of Matthew Kane, a new recruit 
 assigned to Rhino Squad. Your sarge will inform you that a lone marine has jumped the enemy line, 
 destroyed The Big Gun thats taken out previous reinforcements, and assassinated the Strogg leader, 
 the Makron (as anyone whos played Quake II will tell you, this is actually a description of that 
 games final sequence) . Now that its safe to land, Rhino Squads dropship begins to descend.
 
  
  Unfortunately, even with the newfound safety net, you still dont land very soundly. Kane awakens 
 to blurred vision and mass chaos. As soon as you get on your feet, youre at war, and its not 
 going to settle down. This is one of the best things about Quake IV; the consistent, action-packed 
 shootouts that seem to burst out from every corner. Unlike its sister game, Doom 3, it doesnt 
 go for the scares  youll typically have a pretty good visual with your enemies, and its simply 
 a matter of shooting them with everything youve got until one of you perish.
  
  Although you start the game alone, youll quickly join up with other members of Rhino Squad, and 
 theres an excellent sense of camaraderie during the course of the game. Although youll occasionally 
 have to solo it for dramatic effect, youll typically have a nice outfit of marines by your side, 
 and it truly feels like youre a small part in a larger war here.
  
  Unfortunately, though, there just isnt all that much to the action here. You point, shoot, kill, 
 and move on. No thinking involved, really. There is a point somewhere near the half-way point where 
 youll earn some more abilities, and your guns will be upgraded every so often, but its all more 
 or less automatic. Needless to say, all this shooting can get a little repetitive, especially if 
 you play it for long stretches of time.
  
  The same enjoyable-but-mindless sort of mindset extends to the multiplayer. Put simply, this is 
 virtually identical to Quake III: Arenas multiplayer mode, with simple deathmatch and capture 
 the flag matches. It even uses the same maps. Luckily, though, they extended the value of the mode 
 a bit by re-imagining some classic maps from Quake II, which is a great touch. Generally, the feel 
 of the game seems a bit more sped up in multiplayer mode, which is appreciated. The only real snag 
  despite the total lack of originality, that is  is the player limit, which caps at a measly 
 eight players.
  
  On the PC, Quake IVs originality crisis was greatly subdued by its incredible good looks. Indeed, 
 using a modified version of the Doom 3 technology, Quake IV uses great lighting effects along with 
 razor-sharp clarity. At least, it did on the PC. Here on the 360, however, its a bit of a different 
 story. Without HD-support, Quake IV can look a little muddy sometimes, with the edges of soldiers 
 heads appearing slightly fuzzy. With HD the problem is fixed, but this new technology sports its 
 own set of troubles. For one, the sharper image will show the imperfections in the models (such 
 as the slightly blocky tops of their heads) , and the shadows will very rarely appear a bit too 
 sharp when coming from a dim light source.
  
  But the biggest problem of all is the framerate. Although an Xbox 360 is quite a bit more powerful 
 than most peoples PCs, its version of Quake IV sports some rather serious stuttering issues. Expect 
 things to slow down quite a bit during some of the hectic parts in the campaign, although the really 
 crazy multiplayer bouts may cause slowdown also. Its a tragic problem, and one that is made very 
 confusing under the circumstances.
  
  The audio also sports some problems. Although the encoding is still crystal clear, the mixing needs 
 some tweaking for an optimal experience. By default, the voice over is way too low; even when no 
 action is occurring, the ambience around you is often enough to drown out whoevers speaking to 
 you (although having a 5.1 surround more or less negates the problem) . Be prepared to play with 
 subtitles. Other than that, though, the sound is terrific, with good voice acting and fantastic 
 weapon noises, which make ear-piercing cracks and earth-shattering booms (in the best possible 
 way, of course) .
  
  Overall, Quake IV is a straightforward shooter with enough cool moments to justify taking its campaign 
 for a spin. The multiplayer is fun, also. However, the whole product kind of suffers from being 
 such a safe sequel, and it makes no steps toward elevating itself from mindless shooting action. 
 This, combined with some technical issues on the 360, make this one a bit iffy, especially if youre 
 already playing the systems other, better shooters (Perfect Dark Zero, Call of Duty II) . But if 
 youre done with those already, Quake IV is a good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moogster66
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  OK, alot of the reviews in here people either love it or hate it. I'm not going to complain about 
 graphics or frame rate. What I am going to do is thank ID software for putting a very good bonus 
 disc in with the game. Yes it has interviews and so on, but the best thing is our old favorite 
 quake 2 is on there in all it's glory! In high def! It has never looked so good! The younger players 
 are going "YAWN!", but being an old school gamer, I love it. So if you are not sure if you want 
 to buy Quake 4, and you like 2, then you should check it out. I had as much fun playing 2 as i 
 did 4, they are both great games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyer80
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Boy oh boy, did GAMESPOT get there review wrong. This game really is alot better than i'd hoped. 
 First off i stayed away from QUAKE4 only due to the review from GAMESPOT, but after picking it 
 up & beating it i found out that not only is it a classy game but 1 of the best on the 360. The 
 story was far better than most game of this type (not amazing, but still good) , as was the characters.
 
  And all that about the graphic & frame rate being almost unplayable, well it just ain't true. 
 Yes there are issues but nothing to stop you enjoying the game, true there not the best on the 
 system especially next the likes of PRAY or OBLIVION but there still pretty good. And yes the frame 
 does drop from time to time but it ain't that bad.
  What i really liked was the way everything made sense, like how your a STROGG but on are side & 
 only you can end this war. Just play it your see ! 
  So in short YES this really is a great game, much better than PERFECT DARK ZERO hehe.... If you 
 liked DOOM3, HALO, PRAY or METROID PRIME do yourself a favor get this, & play it though to the 
 end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fixer293
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  I loved the predocessors to this game and thought I would give it a try. From what I played it 
 was a really good game for the price you play, and the multiplayer was good even though I am not 
 into fast paced multiplayer. I liked what I played the only flaw is length (man that was fast) 
 kind of the feeling of being back at lejeune having gunnery sargeants yelling orders then my time 
 was up, honorable then out of there. The game has balanced weapons they shoot really well and get 
 the job done. I loved the way they explained why the strog disappear after death (really fast) . 
 I wanted to toy with the dead a little bit, but they said no the strog ships need parts. Overall 
 a good game and ok multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unrealxhunter23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:07 am PT
Review:  Ok, i know Gamespot gave this game a 6.6, but it really doesnt justify itself. This game is really 
 good. 
  
  The single player is nothing special. It is basic, but in the best way. It is somewhat linear. 
 It gives variety of combat situation.. sometimes. There is a good variety of weapons and ememies, 
 and the story is moderate. The real thing that made this game stand out for me was the control. 
 After playing pdz with the weirdest controls ever, this actually allows for skill to shine through. 
 The control was just amazing. 
  
  The multiplayer was the best thing i loved about this game. It was simply classic. If you enjoyed 
 doom 3, quake 3, or any classic fps, you will love this game. 
  
  Overall. This is definetly a classic fps at the core. I enjoyed it, and any other fps fan should 
 as well. ( by the way... the framerate is not bad.. i am not sure why it was even considered a complaint. 
 Try it and see first hand.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aurelien48
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 4, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun to play when there no other game to play!!! this game is too much like 
 other games like doom or prey or turok!!! the gamplay is pretty fun not many option but fun. The 
 graphic are sucky for the xbox 360!! the sound its not special couyld of been better!! the value 
 are weak for a game in the dark!!! you can see the changment between Quake, quake 2, quake 3 and 
 quake 4!!! But ya dont buy this game, rent it first!!! its a same old game that reapeat it self 
 again and again!!! unreal tounament the old old one are the same kind of game as this one (same 
 old game) but the last unreal tournmant was really fun and good!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huevo_Feo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for about 3-4 Months now, and I haven't had any problems with the frame 
 rate. And this is the first game I utterly disagree with the gamespot review. Its a solid first 
 person shooter, it involves tactics (large battle situations with plenty of cover) , a quick trigger 
 finder (sequences where you'll have several guys popping out at you... a lot..., and the every so 
 classic running in guns ablazing, however even this must be done with a certain amount of discresion. 
 The overall gameplay is great, while 1 or 2 of the weapons are realatively hard to use in combat, 
 they do look cool, and are fun to play with, and you'll never find yourself using one gun the entire 
 game, Infact its pretty hard to because the game seems to challenge you into using several weapons, 
 because once you get so far into the game, not every enimies is using machine guns that they will 
 drop ammo for, so you will see your ammo reserves slowly deplete untill your forced to change weapons. 
 This isn't a bad thing at all, seeing as you usually do find ammo a lot, but when your in a sticky 
 situation where severaly guys pop out of the ceiling simotaniously... lets just say you'll prolly 
 waste more ammo than you think, and it may be another 5-10 minutes or so before you find ammo for 
 the favorite gun you've been weilding against the last several masses of foes. Even though you 
 won't find yourself using guns suchs as the lightning gun (Most Notably) that much, they do still 
 hold their place by haveing special skills. Such as the lightning gun has the ability to Destroy 
 a gladiators sheild, which is really helpful considering its basicly a walking tank with a sniper 
 rifle attached to its sholder ( and ofcourse the energy sheild that covers four fifths of its body) . 
 If you've read anything about this game, you probably know there is a plot twist, which ofcourse 
 I'm not going to go into and spoil it, but you'll probably expect it long before it happens. The 
 plot isn't anything amazing or inovative, but it gets the job done. The graphics aren't anything 
 special either, but their up to par with just about any other 1st person shooter you'll find out 
 there right now. Its replay value however is limited to how commited a gamer you are, or how badly 
 you want to increase your gamerscore, and its got the same replay value as any shooter. Which isn't 
 much unless you want to challenge yourself, but its a pretty solid length for a shooter, probably 
 average to slighly above average in length. The only problem I had with this game was the vehicles... the 
 vehicles are sickeningly boring and easy, but luckily you wont be in one for more than 5 minutes 
 at a time, and probably only 4 times in the game. Besides its a nice break, and a releif that you 
 wont have anything jumping out at you. I can't say anything about the multi-player aspect of this 
 game, Co-op sounds like it would be oodles of fun, but unfortunatly no split screen buddy, your 
 goona have to get Xbox live gold, or system link it. That was probably my biggest complaint about 
 this game. Oh, yeah, and if you think this game is all scare tactics, like Doom 3, you will be 
 releived to know its not, there are one or to times when it feels they are trying to put you on 
 the edge, but most of the time when something jumps out it seems like more of a challange than 
 something simply put there to scare you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehsdomi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion I thought it was a great game. The shooting really felt like I was in control. It 
 was by far the best shooting I experienced, but I think the cross hair could have been a little 
 better. I think that with a few updates to fix the glitches, this game could be a Platinum Hit. 
 The only bad part was the multiplayer people ran too fast. I would consider playing it, besides 
 some people rated it a 3.3 for what reason, I don't know. Just give it a try, go past the demo 
 and you will see how much fun the game really is. Trust Me!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  if your the arcade shooter type, this might suit you just fine but if you didnt completely buy 
 into doom 3 or are a diehard fan, this title is difficult to recommend for anybody who loves pulling 
 a trigger. graphics are decent. gameplay is average. no offline multiplayer really hurts this game, 
 especially how weak the online play is. not a very difficult game and it just seems so repetitive. 
 the quake series should be working to make progress but clearly, the series is stuck in neutral. 
 i couldnt help but feel like i had played this game a thousand times during the campaign mode. (wich 
 is just nothing special to say the least) . i guess theres always fun in clearing out rooms full 
 of enemies, but this title can't seem to stretch that out for more than a short amount of time. 
 sorry quake/doom fans, wouldnt even recommend a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 28, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  While this game is very simple for a shooter game, not much drags you into believing this is a 
 must buy game. But there is enough here that wile have you playing this game.... even if its for 
 a little while.
  
  graphics - graphics look great.. I dont know why gamespot gets on them about how you can see everything 
 with whats wrong with it. a regular gamer will just play with out complain.
  
  gameplay - lots of lag if there is a lot of fighting going on with the sluggs. or what ever there 
 called. its enough to make you start over since your shooting at air and not the enemy. but you 
 get use to it and you eventually perfect it. otherwise a good collection of weapons but kind of 
 ridiculous with some of the tougher enemies. online........ well, lets just say nobody plays the 
 game anymore so forget that.
  
  overall- achievements are ridiculous and are very hard to achieve. play threw a whole level with 
 just one weapon. and they have many secret achievements so its almost pointless. I got about 6 
 missions passed with nothing. this game is not even a rent game anymore. a long time ago when it 
 came out it was though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdilh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  To say before I start, the game looks a bit better in vga, so if you have vga slots please get 
 a vga cable, you will appreciate the game a bit more.
  
  Graphics: Nice and slick, sleek, not too shabby, and has a clean look.
  
  Gameplay: The singleplayer 
 is pretty decent at the whole inspiring Doom 3, not quite as satisfying, but, indeed, when shooting 
 that shotgun you will feel a vibration.
  
  Sound: The guns sound hard, hit, and to the point, great solid, on the spot gun noises, and the 
 music can get you too.
  
  Value: The singleplayer should take around 10-12 hours, which is good.
  The multiplayer is fun, 
 much more fun than in Prey, it is fast-paced, and brings the satisfactory factor in as well, when 
 shooting a weapon or when holding that gautlet.
  
  A great game that atleasts deserves a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eldonyo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent addition to the Quake series, with an excellent solo campaign and creative 
 storyline. The graphics are excellent for the 360 and PC which makes the game itself more enjoyable. 
 Multiplayer is lacking desire and players find themselves wanting more. So I wouldn't want this 
 game for just the mutiplayer function because there are alot better multiplayer games then this. 
 The solo campaign is the opposite of its lacking multiplayer function, the game play is very similar 
 to the other three previous Quake games. Overall if your looking for a well developed first-person 
 shooter with non stop action and creative and inspiring creatures that are always trying to kill 
 you, this is the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndpntbll
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok. It has good graphics and great voice and sound effects. The difficulty however 
 isn't the greatest it's one of those games you can beat in a weekend. It has a good story. Good 
 for gamers who play every now and then but falls short for the hardcore gamer. Not worth 60!!! 
 I found it for 40 and may pay that but not worth the retail 60 dollars. The opening is good and 
 ID did good job but it just falls short. The game has good flashlight graphics and the diversity 
 of wepons is good and really enjoyed the spider collectors! However it just isn't the best on the 
 360 thiers a better way to spend 60 dollars... Gears of War anyone??? Maybe next time guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madmattx92
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  
  ~~Singleplayer~~
  
  This is were the bulk of the Xbox 360 version of Quake 4 is. The game had little to no story that 
 was anything exciting. The game has replayability value but is not worth the 60$ it cost. It is 
 more of a game you would rent for a weekend. It had alot of fast paced action but there was nothing 
 amazing about it. There is not much replay value unless you are playing for gamer points. So the 
 Singleplayer over all was good but not long enough.
  
  ~~Mutiplayer~~
  
  The multiplayer in this game was not good at all. It was exactly like the multiplayer from Quake 
 3 except laggy and boring.
  
  Overall this game is a weekend rental.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatalframe07
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 for the Xbox 360 is a first person shooter where you have to destroy the forces of an alien 
 race called the strogg as they try and destroy earth. The game has a lot of new features then the 
 previous games in the series as well as a new look to the way the game is presented. 
  
  Graphics- 9
  The graphics look amazing in this game. The player models are very well done and 
 the walls, terrain, and the machinery are all done with great detail. There have been reports from 
 other people saying the game lags in the graphic department, but i say they are wrong. The game 
 may not look the best it can be, but its pretty good for what it presents. 
  
  Game play- 9
  There have been a lot of questions and concerns about the game play for Quake 4. 
 There are a lot of new features in the game such as squad support, where you fight side by side 
 with other marines. There will be some marines throughout the game that will replenish your health 
 and armor, making the game a lot easier to complete. Some people have said that the game tends 
 to lag when you are shooting a gun for long periods of time or when there are lots of enemies on 
 the screen at once, but once again, i have seen none of these to be true. The game plays extremely 
 well and you will find yourself shooting more than you would exploring like in the other titles 
 of the franchise. 
  
  Mulitplayer- 4
  Multi player mode is pretty much the same as Quake 3 except a few added features that are new to 
 the series. If you loved the multi player mode for quake 3, then you will see that its the same, 
 but if you have never gone online with the quake series, then you will find a new experience apart 
 from the single player game.
  
  Replay Value- 7
  There are lots of achievements to unlock as you play the game through as well as online achievements 
 you can earn. The achievements in the single player game will require you to play through the game 
 multiple times as well as on all of the difficulty settings that the game allows you to play on. 
 The game takes about five to eight hours to complete, depending on the difficulty you are on and 
 your skill level of first person shooters.
  
  Overall- 9
  The game is a must buy for a first person shooter. If you are new to the genre or the quake series, 
 then i would recommend you buy the game, but a rental will suffice since the game can be beaten 
 during the rental time period. Fans of the series will love this game and say that its the best 
 thing to happen to the game series, except maybe the multi player which is pretty much the same 
 as Quake 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  This game didn't live up to the hype. It's solid FPS that puts Next Gen ahead of PC. Surprisingly, 
 the graphics are much better or equal too a very good PC. This made me want to unleash some hell 
 with my wireless mouse. Unfortunately the frame rate drops at times, and gets in the way of your 
 tasks. A couple of game types allow for some fun to be had, and the multiplayer goes back to the 
 fast paced action of the original Quake. Sadly, theres another problem. The frame rate tenses up 
 during multiplayer, and drops at times. ID has done a great job of alternating a cult classic into 
 a Next Gen wonder. The new campaign does a nice job of capturing the struggle between the Strogg 
 and Marines. The single player runs smoothly with some nice graphics to boot. I recommend this 
 game to any one that hasn't played it on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamryohasuki
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  Well this game had me thinking. Is this the same Quake I played a long time ago? Apparently not. 
 ID has done a great job of alternating a cult classic into a Next Gen wonder. The new campaign 
 does a nice job of capturing the struggle between the Strogg and Marines. The single player runs 
 smoothly with some nice graphics to boot. Surprisingly, the graphics are much better or equal too 
 a very good PC. This made me want to unleash some hell with my wireless mouse. Unfortunately the 
 frame rate drops at times, and gets in the way of your tasks. In battle this has happened a couple 
 of times, and it made me frustrated. But if you can get passed the drop of frame rate, this can 
 be a fun experience. The online is pretty solid, with bare minimum. A couple of game types allow 
 for some fun to be had, and the multiplayer goes back to the fast paced action of the original 
 Quake. Sadly, theres another problem. The frame rate tenses up during multiplayer, and drops at 
 times. Not only that, if you have never played Quake before (which I doubt it) the transaction 
 from singleplayer to xbox live, will make new players confused. The smooth and slow paced single 
 player throws players out of wack when they play multiplayer. It is very fast, and it will take 
 sometime for the player to become "decent". Overall Quake 4 has some nice bonuses like Quake 2 
 and the making of. The control scheme is very user friendly and very simple. Quake 4 is a fun game 
 for some, but for others it's a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themtman
Rating: 3.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Not a fun game and boring and repetiitve singe player and multiplayer. The game is trying to be 
 what it used to be and fails, it is a boring and dumb game. Not worth buying. Not even worth renting. 
 Everyone should pass this game and not even look. The graphics are terrible the sound is dumb. 
 The gameplay is old. The value is 0 not a good game at all. If you want to check out this game 
 for old time sake then go head im not going to be playing this game anymore. Dont play this game 
 if you want to not waste your life on a boring game and this game needs to be trashed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suharar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I think people have been a little too harsh on the 360 version of Quake 4, other than the framerate 
 problems this is a very solid game, the graphics are pretty good, standard choice of weaponry, 
 lots of bad guys and a few bosses to blast away.
  Theres nothing innovative about Quake 4, it uses the Doom 3 engine and looks like Doom 3, even 
 some of the enemies look like they could have come from Doom 3.
  There has been some improvements over Doom 3, for example you can weild some weapons and have a 
 flashlight on at the same time, the environments are bigger and even include some outdoor areas 
 and there are few vehicles you can use too.
  The levels are very linear and occasionally you have to do abit of backtracking, i liked the parts 
 where you get to fight with other soldiers, usually rhino squad, it makes the game feel you are 
 part of a war rather than just a one man army.
  The main criticisms of this game is the framerate which can vary quite abit throughout the game, 
 this bothers some more than others, for me it wasnt a big issue and played the game without any 
 problems.
  I liked the audio in the game, the weapons are loud, theres occasionally movie type music in the 
 background, and of course theres lots of exploding barrels.
  Overall i enjoyed the game, i think it deserves more than the 6.6 that gamespot gave it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  who likes FPS games should not pass this game over gamespot review , or any bad reviews .
  
  at first i was worried that quack 4 was bad , judging it from gamespot review , after finishing 
 lot's of games i got bored , i said to myself 'what the hell ' let's buy the game , an i tried 
 the game for half an hour , and it was great . but sometimes you get frustrated from low frame 
 rates drop , but i was okay with it and some of us wasn't like 'gamespot' , they gave it a bad 
 review just for the framerate , and they went to the cons and left the pros in the whole game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killswtch17
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I dont know why people gave this game such a bad review it is such a fun game. more people need 
 to buy games like this because they are fun. This game is jus like doom 3 it has scary parts and 
 f@#king scary parts. it is an exciting thriller. Only twice did i get a lil of a lag issue but 
 only for 5 seconds or so. this game is really awesome and all of u reading it should go buy it 
 don't listen to the bad reviews. i had a lot of fun playing this game for about 13 hours. I did 
 not beat this game in one day but i might of if i pulled an all nighter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdffdsaasdffds
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  There are a ton of FPS games. Most of them I like. However, "horror" FPS games aren't as common, 
 and usually not as fun. However, this game was amazing. It is very underrated. It is incredibly 
 fun. The graphics arent the best, but it makes no difference. The sound and explosions make up 
 for it. This is a great Xbox 360 game. It is highly underrated and should be considered on your 
 wishlist, unless you are not an FPS person, or all you care about is graphics.
  
  Anybody tthat is a fan of the doom or quake series will love this game. I hadnt ever played quake 
 1,2, or 3 or doom 1,2, or 3 but this games surely gave me what i expected i an xbox 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarauderBomber
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 5, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  While Quake 4 may not be one of the standout titles in the Xbox 360 launch lineup, it is a good 
 game that is worth playing. The primary focus of the game is the campaign, but multiplayer can 
 also be fun depending on one's taste. When evaluated in the most objective possible way, it is 
 a good game. But if you are a Quake or Doom fan, you will enjoy this one quite a bit.
  
  Quake 4's single player consists of yet another campaign against the evil alien race known as the 
 Strogg. This time, however, you're fighting on their turf. When your marine ship chash lands on 
 the Strogg's planet, your team is stranded and the enemy is overrunning you. It is then that you 
 enter the familiar setting of the Quake series: small, dark corridors and pitch black rooms crawling 
 with grotesque creatures.
  
  Much of Quake 4's gameplay is about making your way through these small, dark environments, often 
 with a small squad of marines. While this may seem repetitive to some, there are sections of the 
 game that take place outdoors, on the surface of the Strogg homeworld. These open-air levels generally 
 are played as a transition from one sector of the area to another. There is even a bit of vehicle-oriented 
 combat in the campaign, but the player never gets to control the vehicle, just the turret. Most 
 of these turret segments are rather boring, with very arcadish gameplay, something like Crisis 
 Zone or the original Area 51.
  
  The campaign is good and gory, very intense, and some parts of it will startle you quite a bit. 
 The game isn't genuiely scary, but it does have a very creepy, dark mood. This is very exciting 
 in small doses, but most players find that the gameplay becomes fairly repetitive. This issue is 
 somewhat resolved by the outdoor transition levels, but it does cause the game to lose appeal to 
 non-Quake veteran players.
  
  The multiplayer of Quake 4 features fast-paced, Unreal Tournament style gameplay. Vehicles and 
 turrets are absent, as they should be in arena-style multiplayer. It's all about collection armor 
 and weapons, and then raging through the hallways on a killing spree. This gameplay is famaliar 
 to some, and boring to others. You probably won't find much life in Quake 4's multiplayer unless 
 you were a fan of Quake III Arena. It's the kind of gaming that certain people will love, but most 
 will find little enjoyment in.
  
  Graphics are superb, and cannot really be compared to other Xbox 360 games, becuase Quake 4 is 
 really the only FPS of it's kind realeased on the Xbox 360 thus far. Occasional frame-rate slow 
 downs are a problem depending on how you're Xbox 360 runs, and what kind of cooling system you 
 have, but these not-so-frequent bugs and glitches don't take away that much from Quake 4's value.
 
  
  In the opinion of a Quake veteran, Quake 4 is a great game with an enveloping campaign, and fast-paced, 
 action-packed multiplayer. New players, however, may find the single player gameplay repetitive, 
 and the multiplayer confusing and boring. It is really that sort of game that you may like or you 
 may not, depending on taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neilwb23
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  This is a rather cheap PC-360 port. As is the case with a lot of the 360's launch titles. This 
 one feels like it would have been on other platforms, but only really possible on the 360. Sadly, 
 it hardly means this game is particularly next gen.
  
  The graphics are okay. But can't be called anything else as this game is running on the Doom 3 
 engine. The Strogg look great, although you never really get to notice. There is also a lack of 
 soft shadows so everything seems to either be grey or black. That brings me onto the enviroments-the 
 worst aspect of the game. The textures are all smudgy and bland, and the repetition is phenominal. 
 The entire game is based around "getting to the core and shutting down the nexus", so nearly the 
 whole game takes place inside the Strogg base. There is no variety whatsoever, and to make things 
 worse, every room looks the same, and getting from place to place is extremely linear. Although 
 it means crawling through ducts (amazingly new, eh?) and wreckage, it almost tells you were to 
 go, as every door except for one will be locked. This means that there isn't any puzzle or sense 
 of adventure to navigating through the levels, all you're doing is going forward in a straight 
 line.
  
  Once you've gone down a series of marked out corridors, you'll usually reach a large open room 
 where a ton of enemies storm you. Not only is this not fun due to the unsatisfying feel to the 
 weapons, but also gets incredibly boring, as it's just room after room after room. There's no creativity 
 either. Everything looks like it's been rejected from the early stages of Doom 3 and crammed into 
 here.
  
  There are some poor framerate problems in this game. It feels like they just changed the controls 
 and slapped a 360 watermark onto the box. There is very little fan noise while playing this-showing 
 that it is running on one core only. This beast of a machine has 3, why not use atleast another 
 one of them?
  
  The sound is another bad aspect of the game. All of the strogg Weapons seem to just sound like 
 dodge balls. I don't know why, but it hardly feels like you're being shot at by a massive alien 
 when it sounds like he's throwing dodgeballs at you.
  
  Multiplayer is non existant-there isn't a single server. And to make it worse, they kept PC online 
 mechanics so there is an annoying wait to get into a game, and a fair big of lag. Hardly great 
 for a series that has always been the pinacle of multiplayer gaming.
  
  There really isn't much value in this. The achievements force you to play through the game over 
 5 times just to get about 300 points. It's hardly a good thing when the game is brutally boring 
 and repetative. There are some hidden ones that may provide some extra fun to the game, but then 
 at the end of it all you'll only have about 150 points of the 1000 available because-
  
  a) They're too hard to get (10 points for being world champion)
  b) They have little value in them
 
  c) It means playing through this awful game sveral times to get just a few.
  
  If you see it for a few bucks, go ahead. It's either going to last you a few evenings or forever. 
 Mainly because you'll either take it back to where you bought it, or you'll have to punish yourself 
 to get a few more points. Please, don't buy this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexdi1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  El juego en si tiene muy buenas graficas pero en algunas partes fallan no mucho pero si por ejemplo 
 con los enemigos grandes le falta un poco de nitidezpero en el rstode cosas como las armaduras 
 las armas y cosas por el estilo tienen un detalle muy bueno.
  
  Es muy facil aprender a jugar QUAKE 4 especialmente al principio aprender a manejar el blaster 
 es un poco molesto pero igual uno se acostumbra las armas son muy bacanas de eso si no hay duda 
 el sonido esta perfectamente adecuado a la situacion que se presente.
  
  La campaa es muy bacana lo mas bacano es la segunda parte ya que es la lucha final pero igual 
 deja un sinsabor.
  
  El multiplayer es una de las cosas rescatables del juego las pocas veces que lo jugue se me hizo 
 muy divertido y la idead de un juego es que divierta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanechild92
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  If you're too scared to play Doom but love playing Halo then this is the game for you. It has just 
 the right weapons, just the right scariness, its almost perfect. the graphics could use a major 
 tweaking, but considering its one of the 360s launch games, I'm not too surprised. unfortunately 
 it doesn't have a split-screen multiplayer, and, very few people play it online. also, when you 
 buy the game you get an updated version of quake 2 which has spilt-screen multiplayer, a full single 
 player on three difficulties, and nine extra achievements to earn just by beating the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 14, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  In Quake 4, you control Mathew Kane - a Marine who is recruited to the feared "Rhino Squad". As 
 Kane, you and your squad are tasked with taking down the central communications hub of the enemy 
 known as the Stroggs. Sounds easy right? Think again. Eventually the Strogg get a hold of Kane 
 and basically make him one of their own. But before they get to engage a neural link that will 
 make Kane fully Strogg, the Rhino Squad saves him. Now half human-half Strogg, and filled with 
 an unyeilding rage, Kane takes his mission personally.
  
  This game doesn't really bring anything new to the FPS table, but it' still retains the never ending 
 fast paced & heavy action seen in the other Quake games. You see the world through Kane's eyes 
 as he and his teammates engage in brutal and bloody firefights using a huge array of weapons which 
 include, but are not limited to, an assault rifle, a shotgun, grenade launcher, a "lightning gun", 
 and a rocket launcher, against thick hordes of enemy Strogg. The Strogg come in all shapes & sizes, 
 some with sheilds, others in robotic walkers, some massivley huge & intimadating, others with just 
 pulse rifles.. you get the idea. If you have a medic or a technician following you, they can heal 
 your health or fix your armor which is pretty cool. Also, the technician every once in a while 
 will upgrade some of your weapons.
  
  On the bonus disc you can play Quake 2, which is a really good game though outdated. However, this 
 review isn't for Quake 2, so I'm not going to bother with that. Also, there is a multiplayer both 
 off and online -- but I haven't played either, so once again I'm skipping this.
  
  The graphics of this game are almost identical to Doom 3 for the X-Box, so if you played D3 you 
 know how realistic it looks. Both the enviroments and character models (both Strogg and Humans) 
 look extremley real and move with fluid motions, such as their mouths match what they are saying 
 or their eyes follow you when they speak to you. The lighting was absolutley great, and unlike 
 Doom 3, you can use a flashlight and a gun at the same time!!
  
  There wasn't much music, but there sure was a lot of talking. The voice acting was alright, nothing 
 too spectacular, and like Gamespot said - it sounded muffled & really low a lot of the time. A 
 few of the guns sounded really weak which was a downer, but the explosions sounded great.
  
  Quake 4 is a pretty long game, and after a while, feels a bit dragged on. It starts off with 
 a bang, and it's fun for a bit, but after awhile you may feel as though the game never ends. I 
 believe the campaign was 10-15 hours long (faaaar to long for a FPS in my opinion) , and ontop of 
 that, the game wasn't really easy at all. A lot of the time you get so overwhelmed with Strogg 
 that it appears impossible.... in otherwords, at some points it may feel like a chore (and very 
 frustrating) to play Quake 4.
  
  Additionally, the ending was miserable. Kane destroys the hub and goes to rejoice with the remaining 
 members of Rhino Squad. Just as he lands and begins celebrating, he is given new orders..... then 
 the credits roll and you never know what happens. After 15 hours, I expected to see a lot more.. such 
 as medics and doctors reversing the effects of the Strogg's experiments and making Kane a human 
 again, but no you dont see that.
  
  Shockingly the AI was really, really good and was (in my opinion) better than that of Ghost Recon: 
 Advanced Warfighter. Your Marines actually shot and killed enemies a lot, and were actually fun 
 to fight side by side with.
  
  Also, like GSpot said, the game does slow down at some points. But it only happens when there are 
 a lot of enemies coming towards you, you're firing wildly, and things are blowing up all at once. 
 Sure it could be bad, but with all the action I guess you can look over it.
  
  To end this review, even with it's $35 price tag (thats pretty low for an X-Box 360 game) , Quake 
 4 is only real good as a rental. Sure the action is thick, but there is only so much of shooting 
 Strogg one person can take, and 15 hours of it is unbelievable. Not to mention the ending isn't 
 really worth all the hassle. So like I said, if you own an X360 then rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaWeapon9
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  After a long wait "Quake 4" relased on the PC late last year with a great welcome. What come with 
 "Quake 4" was a great single player campaign, and a fun multiplayer mode. Along with all of this, 
 was a top of the line graphics engine that looked absolutely amazing. "Quake 4" on the 360, is 
 pretty much the same game according to content. However, some graphical problems come with this 
 initial version that take away greatly from the amazing look of the PC version. And in the end, 
 it doesnt really make for a great graphical showcase for what the 360 can do graphically. However, 
 the initial game in "Quake 4" is still worth experiencing. If you can get past the problems that 
 come with this version.
  
  Being a rather different FPS then many other shooters on the market. "Quake 4" is a rather story 
 driven game then many other shooters. And while the story is predictable and nothing out of the 
 ordinary, it does make for a pretty big contrast from what other shooters do, mainly, because of 
 the games great presentation of the story.
  
  In "Quake 4" you play as Mathew Kane, a marine grouped with many different individuals to help 
 fight the alien race known as the Stroggos. 
  
  "Quake 4" is essentually a sequal to "Quake 2". In "Quake 2, the story took to the place of a lone 
 marine, who went across the planet stroggos destroying many of the Stroggs forces. And eventually 
 defeating the Mackron, the leader of the Stroggs forces.
  
  "Quake 4" takes place almost immediately after "Quake 2" where you play you as Mathew Kane, are 
 going in to clean up all of the remaining forces of the Stroggos.
  
  "Quake 4" isnt a game built around its story. However, what it does differently, is its presentation. 
 The entire game is made up like a roller coaster ride. There are moments in this game that are 
 clearly made up like a ride at a theme park. The action plays very well into this. You are constently 
 running and gunning. Acually there are rarely moments in the game when you arent firing your weapons. 
 This lends very well into these moments that are acually very inspired.
  
  The gameplay of "Quake 4" is acually very good, however, its a bit too basic. Much like "Doom 3" 
 which was made by ID software ( who takes the executive producer role in Quake 4 ) , the game really 
 is made up of constently runnung and gunning. However, unlike "Doom 3" which relied on scares. 
 "Quake 4" is more of a straight action game, and the core action feels a bit more modern then "Doom 
 3", which was trying to feel like a throw back to the original Doom games. The guns in "Quake 4" 
 are one of the best parts of the game. They feel very satifying and sound as acurrate as possible. 
 Firing these weapons is some of the best enjoyment from the game. The enemies are also very fun 
 to shoot at. They are pretty much the same according to AI, however, they really are very fun to 
 shoot and the entire game feel very fun to run threw the 7-10 hours it will take to complete the 
 game.
  
  "Qauke 4" also has a very large amount of replayabliliy. There is a full on internet mode that 
 is very fun, however its nothing you havent seen before. And a large amount of achievements that 
 are alicated very well to add more replayablility to the game.
  
  However, the one con that takes away greatly from the 360 version of "Qauk 4" is the graphical 
 presentation that is much of a lower qualility then its PC counter part. For the most part the 
 graphics look very good and look very sharp in the higher resolution on the 360. However, there 
 is a major amount of frame-rate issues that come with the 360 version. Along with that is a whole 
 lot of slow down. And at times the graphics just dont look very good, and look very muddy. All 
 this makes for a game that just doesnt look very good as a showcase for what the 360 can do. Even 
 the slowdown takes away from the, otherwise great sound. Becuase the sound effects will slow down 
 with the game. Its a passable game acording to graphics however, its nothing that will give you 
 a good idea of what the next generation of game will look like.
  
  In the end, "Quake 4" is a good and intense shooter. It has an exciteing campaign and deliverse 
 a good amount of thrills. However, there are already much better shooters on the 360. And adding 
 in the graphical problems that come with this version of "Quake 4", it comes down to a shooter 
 thats fun but not great. However, it will most definitely make for a great rental. But if you want 
 to play "Quake 4" and your computer cant run the game properly, then "Quake 4" on the 360 is definitely 
 worth a look.
  
  If you can look past some initial problems that come with the Xbox 360 version of "Quake 4". Then 
 you will find a game that is most definitely worth experiencing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CassiusVII
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 10:11 am PT
Review:  Everyone was saying, "O Quake 4 is the worst game out for 360 so far." Why ? There is nothing wrong 
 with the game. The game is awesome.
  Gameplay- Very fun, it makes you scared while also giving you alot of action. The online play is 
 where this game isnt the greatest. Also the achievements take forever.
  Graphics- Best I have EVER seen. There are none better. Not only the frame rate but the enviroment 
 is awesome. Dead bodies being plucked at by giant machines. 
  Sound- When you are walking down a silent hall way and you here Silence instead of music, thats 
 when u know the sound is awesome. Then you relize its better when a strog jumps out of a door and 
 stabs your friend and you can here his screams as he gets pulled away.
  Value- 10-10 for Online play.
  This game is an awesome FPS and I think it was better then PDZ. 
 This game is way overhyped the Wrong way. 8.7-10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  I personaly hate this game because it had terrible graphics for being on a next gen concole. also 
 the story line was a complete joke and the friendly AI was not even worth being mentioned. the 
 weapons were boring and did not even sound like they should. the enemy looked looked stupid. and 
 you being turned into the Strogg was a complete retardation on the developers part, it was as bad 
 as playing as the arbiter on halo 2. The multiplayer lacked something i call fun and the achievments 
 were not even worth gettting. this is one of the worst games that has been released for the 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklinksbro
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 
  Well the graphics for the 360 version and pc version pretty much exactly the same and that is incredible 
 not much else to say except that quake 2s graphics also hold up well for a game that old. 
  
  Sound 
  Great sound you can hear the strogg "talking" to each other and moving around and 
 when you can't see them that can freak you out a little 
  
  Gameplay 
  If u loved any of the other quakes you will love this game online just some old school deathmatch 
 fun. The single player has been upgraded so much that i enjoyed and have played it over and over 
 at all the difficulty stages. Now there is a bit of a frame rate issue but, it's not as major as 
 gamespot says it is in their review it's just when alot of people are on the screen theres a minor 
 slow down yeah thats it frankly and obviously the multiplayer is arms and legs over doom 3 and 
 the single player i also enjoyed the story may not be as good but hey look my gun has a flash light 
 on it! and the killing is much more fun tha doom 3 it's not as frusterating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intimidator2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  good game gs makes it seem pretty bad but i was very impressed man
   aaa aaaaaaa a aaaaaaaaaaa a aa aaa 
 aa aaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aa aa aaa aa aaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaaa 
 aaaa aaaa aaa aa aaa aaaaaa aaaa a aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa a aa a a a aaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aa aaa aaa aaaaal; skf sfl; akdfj asfa sdfjas df; lksjdf; lsa jfas 
 fl fsld fasddf sadfsa lfkjsaddfl asdf sdf sadlf kasdl fsafk sl; f sf slf ksal faslkf asldfk as dfsalkdf 
 jasl kfsl fsalkfslkfsalkdfjasl f aslfkjas fsadfasflkas fl; ask jfas fas fja; lsk jfals; k fs fjasl; 
 fas f 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zweihanderhero
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Its been ages since a new Quake game came out and its even been longer still since a Quake game 
 with a story came out. After all Quake 3 was pure deathmatching fun, without any connection to 
 the previous games Strogg storyline. Thats where Quake 4 comes it. Its both a sequel to Quake 
 2 AND a sequel to Quake 3
  
  Confused? Dont be. Quake 4s story mode takes place right after the ending of Quake 2. The humans 
 are just beginning their invasion of the Strogg homeworld and the opening intro reminded me strongly 
 of Starship Troopers and Aliens. Youre Kane, one of the soldiers tasked with beating the Strogg 
 on their home turf. Before you even managed to land though, your transport gets shot down and things 
 go way downhill from there.
  
  The story of Quake 4 is a pretty generic affair, after all it IS an FPS. It takes a twist for the 
 macabre in the middle as Kane is captured and then turned into a Stogg soldier. Though technically 
 not one of the baddies, Kane isnt actually trusted by his comrades due to lingering suspicions 
 about his allegiance. The last half of the game is actually more entertaining with more interaction 
 happening and more stuff actually taking place, though the end is pretty much what youd expected 
 all along. Unlike Doom 3 (which the games engine is based on) , Quake 4 has you running and gunning 
 with allies a handful of times. Its fun having guys with big guns backing your ass up and while 
 you cant issue them orders, the AI is generally smart enough to duck behind cover and to aim straight. 
 Thats not to say they wont need your help though. The Strogg are relentless and the enemy AI 
 seem to have been programmed to hunt down your AI teammates before taking you down. Thats not 
 to say they wont be taking potshots at you though
  
  Sadly, when the action heats up or the environments gets too ambitious with all sorts of graphical 
 effects, the frame rate goes down the gutter. Quake 4 is a beautiful game when it runs fine but 
 when it doesnt its like watching a nicely detailed slideshow. Its not a problem in the early 
 goings, not much going on there, but as you start the second half onwards, all hell breaks loose. 
 Enemies assault you in the tenswhich coincidentally is probably the number of the frame rate when 
 the actions gets intense. With the framerate moving along at a snails pace, even precision aiming 
 or dodging enemy fire becomes near impossible. Sure, you can save anywhere you want but that mean 
 that the framerate isnt a problem.
  
  The online portion is a totally different beast than the crappy offline portion. Online the game 
 plays like Quake 3, with a blazing framerate and a total emphasis on deathmatching. Ive heard 
 it said that playing Quake 4 online is lagtastic but from my personal experience (with a Singnet 
 1500 connection) , the online game was lag free. The framerate does tend to drop a bit when a lot 
 of people are playing but the lag never raises. Even the slowdown in the online mode is negligible 
 and doesnt affect gameplay at all. With totally different maps and an emphasis on fast paced fragging, 
 I had more fun playing online than off.
  
  Like Doom 3, Quake 4 depends much on its sound effects, especially so during online deathmatches. 
 Its important to know whats happening behind you as youre constantly in danger of being backstabbed 
 in the game. Offline, sound is crucial too as the baddies like to spawn in previously empty or 
 cleared areas. Definitely a plus if you get aural hints before you get hammered. Rockets, machineguns 
 and the Dark Matter Gun (Quakes version of Dooms BFG) all sound different as befits their deadliness. 
 The ratatatat of a machine gun doesnt stir up the fear like the Dark Matter Gun being powered 
 up
  
  With Quake 2 as an added bonus, youd think that the game offers a ton of value. Not really true 
 as the offline portion of Quake 4 isnt that longBut if youre a fan of the series, love Quake 
 3 and wanna play Quake 2 again just to relive the good old days, you cant go wrong here. Just 
 be prepared for awesome slowdown if you ever decide to try the main storymode of Quake 4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can I say about this game. I played it with my fiend for 8-hours straight, and I helped 
 him beat it, on his XBOX 360-premium. He soon bought the game, but for what reason. We beat the 
 single-player in 1-day-10 hours. What the mess??? So easy. He then let me borrow it, and I took 
 it to MY house. I never even tried the single player again, because it was short. It seems to have 
 no real replay value. He also has COD 2, and I borrowed that from him, the day after I took back 
 his Quake 4 game. And I started playing COD 2 again, after I had already beat it. Not to mention, 
 the multiplayer on COD 2 was fun, but in Quake 4, the multiplayer has only 8 people, and the maps 
 are boring. On COD 2, the maps are great. So , is Quake 4 worth $60, no, but Call of Duty 2 is 
 worth t, and my cheap-self is actually going to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's review of Quake 4 seems a bit harsh. Their biggest complaint is the frame rate which 
 can get ugly but rarely affects gameplay. The shooting in Quake 4 can be easily be compared to 
 that of Doom 3, whose engine powers it. The visuals are pretty great and the lighting is superb 
 which really bumps up the immersiveness. The sound effects are also well done but the various radio 
 chatter from your Marine buddies sounds muffled most of the time. Quake 4 is a very straightforward 
 shooter, but that doesn't mean it's not any fun. Some of the cinematics are pretty cool and kinda 
 gruesome as well. The multiplayer (online or system link only) is fast paced and fun but not very 
 deep. So don't let the harsh critics put you off. Quake 4 is a solid game that's worth checking 
 out, especially if at a decent price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a7medy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  this game is good i now that is the frame rate is going down somtimes but its stiil a great game 
 thhe graphic its not bad as they say its good the only bad thing in this game i think the multiplayer 
 its realy suck play this multiplayer then go and play halo 2 muliplayer : ) and tell me what you 
 think about the story is good and if you dont want 2 buy it then go and rent it thanks 4 reading 
 my review bye bye bye bye bye ahmed Q8 you now you must but at least 100 words but im going 2 talk 
 about gears of war i cant wait until its come i realy wants 2 now what is the emergence day is 
 l0o0o0o0o0o0ol bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdbthexboxgamr
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 30, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Wow does this game remind me of Doom 3 on the original Xbox. I guess that is because this game 
 is on the same engine as Doom 3. Now dont get me wrong this game does look better, the engine has 
 undergone some refinements so it could run better on the next gen console.
  Gameplay wise this is really a solid shooter. Nothing special whatsoever though. It is strictly 
 a "run-n-gun" game that requires no tactics at all. Just run in with the gun blazing and clear 
 the room, repeat. The visuals are very crisp and sharp and the lighting is second to none. The game 
 sounds good right. Well it would be excellent if it did not have the inexcusable frame rate issues. 
 The frame rate is all over the place during the entire game. Most of the time it will be at the 
 high 20s and some times in the 30s even, but it does dip down pretty far a few times when the action 
 get intense. There is no excuse for this problem. The 360 is definately more than capable than 
 running this game at a locked frame rate. This is most likely a sign of the game being rushed, most 
 likely so it could make the launch of the 360. 
  To round things off I do recomend this game. Even with its at times choppy frame rate, this is still 
 a good shooter to pick up if you are not into the whole "tactics thing" like games like G. R. A. W 
 play like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespoting
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  The Good: Solid, lengthy campaign; Better looking version of the Doom 3 engine; Great Multiplayer; 
 Full Version of Quake 2 on bonus disc; Good variety in weapons.
  
  The Bad: Sloppy Presentation featuring an inconsistent framerate and a poor audio performance; 
 Multiplayer is same as Quake 3 just with better graphics; Story is not as developed as one might 
 have hoped outside of one major twist. 
  
  
  The original Quake is considered 
 to be one of the best shooters of all time. With that said, Quake 4 has quite a name to live up 
 to. For the most part it does but a sloppy presentation keeps it from reaching its highest potential. 
 The story in Quake 4 picks up right where Quake 2 left off. You play as Matthew Kane the hero from 
 the previous game as you assault the Strogg's main base. The Strogg are basically an alien species 
 that are bent on killing all humans. The story is pretty basic with the exception of one major 
 twist that happens to your character. The story is one of id's strongest but not quite as enjoyable 
 as Doom 3's was.
  
  The game plays like any basic first person shooter. It also controls very well on the Xbx 360's 
 new controller. All the weapons you would expect such as the aussalt rifle, pistol, rocket launcher 
 and many other common weapons are here. The only difference is that throughout the game your weapons 
 will be upgraded giving them different advantages than before. This works well and keeps all the 
 weapons distinct from each other and fun to use. The first part of the game is pretty basic, but 
 about half way through a major event takes place making the game turn in a different direction. 
 The A. I. get smarter, their is more difficulty to the levels and the game gets a lot more compelling 
 to play.
  
  The visuals in Quake are incredible... for an Xbox game. But as an Xbox 360 game they are just good. 
 It definitely looks better than Doom 3 but not enough to say that it is a stellar looking title. 
 There are games that look a lot better on the 360, but that doesn't mean this is a bad looking 
 game just not great. The textures are sharp for the most part and the lighting is fantastic. These 
 are still some of the best looking lighting effects on any system. The only real complaint about 
 the graphical performance is the framerate. For the first part of the game it runs smooth and easy 
 with almost no drops in it. When the second part of the game starts you will notice rather quickly 
 that whenever you get in a battle with more than 4-5 enemies the framerate drops. It occasionally 
 drops so low it is hard to play for a few seconds. But these moments are few and far between. It 
 really does not affect gameplay that much either. The framerate is not as bad as some of the critics 
 make it out to be, and should not keep you from purchasing this title.
  
  The sound is done well with intense guns effects, and decent voice acting. The biggest problem 
 with it is that the voices are so muffled in spots you will miss important objective information 
 and a lot of what your marines will say. You can turn up the volume but as soon as you shoot the 
 sound gets very loud. I mean very loud. There are no options to adjust the sound other than a basic 
 one that lowers or raises everything. This is disappointing and the game should not have been shipped 
 with this problem. The sound is not bad just a weak. 
  
  The multiplayer is a ton of fun. You will spend a ton of your time with Quake 4 in the multiplayer 
 section. The bad thing is that if you spent the last few years playing Quake 3, you will get the 
 feeling that it is all very familiar. That is because it is the exact same as Quake 3. Same maps, 
 same gameplay. Just better graphics. This isn't bad though, because Quake 3 was a great game that 
 people still play to this day. It is also worth mentioning that on the bonus disc there is a making 
 of feature as well as the full version of Quake 2. Quake 2 is a great game that is in some ways 
 better than Quake 4. Also, just so everyone knows, Quake 2 has 7 or 8 unlockable achievements that 
 you get for just beating the game. It also has multiplayer that is very fun that you can play split 
 screen. If you purchase Quake 4 used there is a good chance that it will not come with bonus disc 
 unless you ask for it.
  
  It will take 10-12 hours to run through the single player mode. Add several more hours to that 
 for multiplayer and Quake 2. The biggest problem with this game is that it has a very sloppy presentation. 
 For a game that is on a next-gen console, it has too many problems to considerate a nex-gen game. 
 Quake 4 is not bad and many people will find a lot to like in the title. If Doom 3 was too slow 
 for you, this is your game. Overall, there is enough things going for this game to tell someone 
 they should pick it up. If you are going to have 10 Xbox 360 games this should be one of them. 
 If you were to only have 5 Xbox 360 games there are better shooters you should pick up first. There 
 is some good fun to have in Quake 4, just don't expect the best shooter ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgreen69
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm an 'id whore'. I loved Doom, Doom 2, Doom 3 and all of the Quake games so understand 
 as you read this, that I'm leaning more than a little in their favour! 
  
  I was really, really disappointed to hear the negative reviews surrounding this game - particularly 
 Gamespot's 6.6 so I bought the game fully expecting to take it back.
  
  When I started to play the game, I found myself getting immersed into it and was surprised to find 
 the hours flying by. With that, I think that the key thing with the game is not to set your expectations 
 too high - you will be disappointed.
  
  That said, the game is good at what it tries to do - it keeps it simple. There is no peeking round 
 corners, interacting with cover bulet time or any other 'feature' - it's simply run and gun.
  
  Unfortunately, this is also where the game suffers. It's great fun to pick and play for a couple 
 of hours and blast away but if you are looking for something varied - this game isn't for you. 
 
  
  The guns in the game are varied (ther; s something like 12 in all which you can carry all at the 
 same time - no strategic choices here thank you!) and feel 'right' when you are shooting. 
  
  It really boils down to what you want from a game. Do you want to be entertained? If so, this 
 game is great fun if you don't take it seriously. Do you want to be engaged or want innovation? 
 If so, I'd look elsewhere (Ghost Recon : Advanced Warfighter I can recommend) . I really like this 
 game as it's something I can just pick up and play for a couple of hours. Ghost Recon is great 
 but it takes me 30 minutes each time to relearn all of the button presses!
  
  I personally have expereinced no graphical issues with the game but reports on this appear to be 
 mixed.
  
  I've given this game a 9 based on it comes bundled with a copy of Quake 2. If it hadn't I would 
 have scored it lower (probably 6) based on it just being a straight port from the PC (which incidentally 
 scored an 8.0 from Gamespot - I don't see why the 360 version scores so much lower)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROFLMASTER
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  I think by now most of us shooter fans know the qualities of Quake 4 and are probably kind of disappointed. 
 Quake 4 is not the follow up, of one of the best shooters, which we were expecting it to be. This 
 could be because of several reasons. I'd say it's because Quake 3 was without a doubt ahead of 
 its time and a revolution to shooters. Quake 4 is basically doom 3 in a slightly different scenario 
 with a different plot and some weapons, and of course vehicles (which I will be ranting about later 
 :P) . To give you a slight introduction on what Quake 4 is, I want to tell you ahead of time that 
 I didn't like it, but I will of course point out it's good sides which will show that it's not 
 a complete waste of time.
  
  The gameplay is similar to Doom 3 with the exception that it is a little more action packed and 
 the game looses the dark and gloomy feeling of death behind every corner, which Doom 3 had. But 
 that is not what this game was meant to be about so it's ok that they replaced the darkness with 
 more action. This is more or less the reason why I would prefer this game to Doom 3. But enough 
 of me comparing it to Doom 3, back to the gameplay. The gameplay is usually fluid if you are playing 
 it on a console or have a good PC system. No really frame rate issues. The enemies in the game 
 are very dynamic. They can usually surprise you pretty well and make you think, "Oh no not another 
 one of these guys, not now". But if you play on a higher difficulty without knowing every level 
 at least a little, you're a dead man. I suggest you play it on the medium or easy difficulty for 
 starters and later work your way up if you ever want to play it again, which brings me onto the 
 story. It's basically about you trying to get rid of the Strogg and trying to blow up the Nexus, 
 which is basically the heart of all their doings and whatnot.
  One thing I liked about the game is how your weapons always get upgraded while you progress. Usually 
 a squad member adds a larger capacity of bullets or a scope or something like that. Your health 
 also gets upgraded when you (WARNING!!! SPOILERS AHEAD) get turned into a Strogg (oops :D) . It's 
 pretty cool except you look like a biomechanical freak then :D. The boss fights are usually a challenge 
 if you do them for the first time. The thing I didn't like about the gameplay is that I was always 
 short on bullets. The same thing happened to me in Doom 3. At some points I was just running around 
 whipping zombies with my pistol (Doom 3) . There are a lot of easter eggs in this game like armour 
 or some extra shells or stuff like that which I was always afraid of missing. 
  Onto what I promised I would rant about: The vehicles. When I got the game I'm like "OMGOGMOGM 
 VEHICLES THIS IS GONNA ROCK!!!!". Believe me, they suck. Usually you are inside of some kind of 
 facility and when you go outside you know it's usually time for a little drive in the crappy-steering-mobile. 
 The steering of the vehicles can get frustrating to beginners and the weird vehicle controls usually 
 get you stuck between rocks or in corner and can get you frustrated if there are also enemies shooting 
 at you. When you are in a vehicle you usually do the same thing every time: Take out some infantry, 
 blow up these machine guns that are dropped from the sky and burry themselves into the ground, 
 or you take out huge spider (Strider like things) which shoot missiles at you. 
  
  Onto the graphics. They are pretty good. Pretty much the same thing as Doom 3, and so is the engine 
 in general. The walls and rooms mostly look the same in one level. They did a better job than in 
 Doom 3 by actually changing the scenario more often. Just thinking of the Waste Facilities in Doom 
 3 makes me want to doze off. Anyways, the animations and enemies and weapons are all nicely done. 
 The outside terrain could have used some work in my opinion but they are fine, since you mostly 
 concentrate on getting stuck between rock :D. 
  
  As for the sound, it is one of those things that doesn't really grab your attention very often 
 due to any extraordinary sound effects. But they are fine and the voice acting is fine too.
  
  I want to say one more thing about the vehicle controls before I advance onto the multiplayer 
 mode of the game. The fact that the vehicles are hard to steer could be because it's only a problem 
 on the Xbox. I have never played the game on PC and I'm guessing the controls are probably easier 
 there, being able to use the mouse and all.
  
  Ah yes the multiplayer mode. The one thing that made Quake 3 what it was. Let me tell you it like 
 this: Quake 4 multiplayer is exactly the same as Quake 3's multiplayer. Same fast paced action 
 and everything. Just the new levels and weapons add a difference. What I didn't like about the 
 multiplayer is that NOBODY was ever online. This is probably because I can only play on German 
 servers with my German version of the game but the multiplayer isn't that great anyways. So the 
 multiplayer is far more enjoyable on PC and American versions of Quake 4. 
  
  I hope I didn't diss too much of the game to keep you from buying it. As you can see in my value 
 rating, it's a good buy if you have nothing better to play at the moment. Its replay value just 
 doesn't cut it and neither does the multiplayer. 
  
  To put it in a few simple words: Been there, done that. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: norgewhop
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  "Quake 4" is the best looking shooter availible to me on the 360 so far, the whole concept of the 
 "Strogg" is mindblowing... I mean... robots making other robots using human pieces? I just found 
 that playing it the first time through left me feeling frustrated and lost in a void of dark, blood 
 infested steel workings. I must admit though, I was on the edge of my seat the whole game, and 
 that really made up for the fact that I was getting killed every 5 minutes. The opposition is intense 
 but your array of weapons ends up being a dream arsenal from some sicko, but I liked it! Everything 
 is scattered throughout this dreamworld, from rifles, grenade throwers, nailguns and the list goes 
 on, but do not be so bold with them, the Strogg are surely a force to be reackoned with! The graphics 
 and the cut scenes are great, I just found it a little frustrating first time through. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomicrooster1
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  True this game is not as hard hitting as the pc counterpart - however this does not excuse the 
 fact that it is an amazing game, with possibly the best single player ive played in a long time. 
 
  True it is a lot of running and gunning - but after a hard days whatever, its a great release to 
 just shoot and not weave through puzzles, or develop characters.
  Occasionally it is broken up by returning to the marine ship, (*spoiler*) and the bit when you 
 turn strogg is really cool cus' you can see whats gunna happen to you up ahead, and its just... well 
 there aren't words really, its very well executed - and cool none the less.
  graphic issues... WHAT graphic issues, the framerate hasn't slowed down once on me and YES I have 
 played the WHOLE game, the graphics arn't as sharp as on a high end pc but thats the same case 
 as with oblivion.
  my only complaint is the long loading times, especially when you die and have to reload, with games 
 like halo you're instantly back in the action.
  
  Anyway, i wish people would stop slating this game, true it isn't a gem but it is a LOT of fun 
 and beign able to get it for 35 here in the uk its a good 360 shooter, as farcry (although amazing) 
 visually isn't THAT much better than the xbox version...
  
  Its true everybody has different opinions, but without trying to sound arrogant ive played a LOT 
 of games. Why not rent it and see what you think?
  
  8.5 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willwells15
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 21, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  i braught this game i thort it was going to be a very avarage game because i always look at the 
 reviews before i buy it but i thort "you shouldn't judge a book by its cover", when i first switched 
 it on my first imrpessions were it was a simple layout menus, not technical at all. 
  i think this game offers alot in the FPS gaming world the 3 key factors it has are a good story 
 line, well designed opponents with all kinds of strengths and weaknesses, well designed weapons 
 and also well designed battle grounds (even if a bit gorey atleast it lives up to its 18 age rating) 
 
  i think the storey is just about the right size, multiplayer is just SWEET overall i think is a 
 very good game and i would say its a "must buy" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackIceJoe
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 20, 2006 8:03 am PT
Review:  I got this game thinking it would be fun but ended up not.
  
  Quake 4 you play as a Human that will get picked up from the bad guys and then turned into a bad 
 guy too. The idea sounds cooler then it is. Right when you become a bad guy you almost get shot by 
 your friends but then they work with you. The game is a lot shorter then the other Quake games.
 
  
  The Achievements sound like fun to get but end up being more of a pain to get then they should 
 be. Plus you will not know what ones you have to do to get them.
  
  Multiplayer is fun but is nothing that has not been done before. So a little old and used.
  
 
  So all and all the game is worth a rental and not a buy unless you are a real fan to the Quake 
 games and even then might not be to your liking.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manatassi
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 18, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  You know I realy have a dilema when it comes to Q4. The game itself is just what I had wanted from 
 Quake, stunning environments and some great action combine to give me everything I had been expecting.
 
  
  But... the frame rate!
  
  The only problem I have with Q4 on the 360 is that darn frame rate, I mean seriously I cant beleive 
 they released the game without optimising it properly. It totaly ruins an experience that I so 
 desperately tried to enjoy. Dont get me wrong its still playable and for the most part a very good 
 game. but the way that things can start to stutter can realy pull you out of the experience, and 
 thats a huge problem.
  
  Even the multiplayer can be choppy at points which as you can imagine in a fast paced shooter like 
 Quake can make the rail gun next to useless for a start.
  
  Its just a crying shame that the game wasnt properly finished and rushed for launch as theres no 
 reason the 360 should be struggling with these graphics.
  
  I guess its still worth picking up if you dont have a PC that can play it but be forwarned and 
 remember that you will have to overlook the technical issues to realy enjoy the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergiosissylala
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 18, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  I have found that with the new ID games that the story lines are better than the gameplay. I mean 
 the shooting and everything is really fun but if they made it more intense and more fearful it 
 would be better. I mean think of it, if you were fighting a brutal alien race wouldn't you be at 
 least a little bit freaked out?? The visuals affects were really good, the gameplay kind of skethcy 
 but hey I like first person shooters and if you do you'll like quake. It's also a classic so it's 
 kinda like you just have to play it. I haven't played the multiplayer and I really have no desire 
 to, it just doesn't look fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisyman
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 14, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  mabey if the monsters were not so crapy it could be a better game. but i gusse they do what they 
 have to do. just to make a game i gusse. so if you are buying this game think twice. in case of 
 crapy animaion please call the idiots who made this game. no efence but it realy has bad graphics 
 so i cant realy say much about any thing else. oh and take your ammo seriecly or you might just 
 die in the waste area. becuase the zombies in that area can use up all your ammo. they have crapy 
 graphics too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I popped in my xbox 360. And boy was it a good first impression. I was 
 stunned about how games went through a new coat of paint. Not just that, but the story and gameplay 
 factors were way better than any xbox or ps2 title. The framerate problems arent as bad as all 
 of the critics think. It's playable, not too noticeable until late in the game, and of course, 
 the problem almost every single game has! Although the machinegun sounds like cans dropping, it 
 still looks and feels cool. Every weapon has its own touch, and attributes. You can be settled 
 right at home. You dont like machine guns? Try the shotgun or railgun. Love automatic weapons? 
 Try the hyperblaster, machine gun, lightening gun, and nail gun. ITS ALL HERE! The story will apply 
 intense turn arounds, ground breaking violence, and the feel of being a marine. I never thought 
 Quake 4 will be so amazing! Graphical desgins are well detailed. Glass cracks, explosions, gore, 
 and the faces of characters throughout gameplay. Dont forget the multiplayer, if you have enough 
 friends, you can play matches over xbox live. Because, xbox live is rather dead on quake 4.
  -Final 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: domhawk
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME KICKS ASS. WHEN YOU BUY THIS GAME YOU ARE GOING TO PLAY THIS FOR HOURS. A VERY VERY GOOD 
 ASS KICKING GAME. GO BUY THIS NOW NOW NOW. GREATEST FIRST PERSON SHOOTER EVER RELEASED. IT IS BETTER 
 ON THE XBOX 360 AND LESS BETTER ON THE PC. COOLEST GAME EVER MADE. $.60.00 THAT SUCKS. THIS GAME 
 IS DAMN GOOD. THIS GAME WILL STOP YOU FROM PLAYING RESIDENT EVIL. THIS GAME WILL MAKE YOUR SAD 
 LIFE DRIFT AWAY VERY QUICK. A MUST BUY GAME I MEAN IT. THIS GAME WILL MAKE YOU STAY UP ALL NIGHT. 
 IF YOUR FRIENDS DO NOT LIKE IT KILLTHEM NO I AM JUST KIDDING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 may not have the same wow-factor as Quake 3: ARENA, but thanks to the ADVANCED DOOM3 ENGINE 
 the graphics are stunning, and it brings out the games perfect use of blood and gore!
  You are Matthew Kane, an elite member of Rhino Squad, and are sent to the planet Stroggos, to battle 
 the half-human half-bionic race, the Strogg. After being captured by the Makron, you become part 
 Strogg, which helps you defeat them in the end.
  This game offers all the fun of Doom 3 but on next-gen console.
  If you liked Doom, buy Quake! 
 It offers a fun online section and a fully tactical documentation on the Strogg race, and the full 
 version of Quake 2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 3, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  When you buy Quake IV, you don't only get Quake IV. You get Quake II, you get Quake IV, and you 
 get Quake III (or the Quake IV multiplayer) .
  The multiplayer might be exactly like Quake III: Arena but it just shows you don't need anything 
 more.
  The graphics are just terrific.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  A tad bit of lag during huge battles (but it's really rare that it happens) .
  Xbox Live play 
 is a bit laggy at times.
  Sounds are flat out horrible at times, especially when the voices are played.
  
  :Overall:
 
  Aside from the few lag points, this is a really cool game. You get a good bang for your buck 
 and you can find this game for under $49 on eBay and Amazon now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Streetballfan21
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a fun game that is really underated. i don't think it's a great game, but it's a good 
 game to play. It's really fun, and theres alot of cool things about it. 1st this game has a Doom 
 feel to it if you like Doom. although it's not complety like Doom it's has it's own things. the 
 weapons are alot cooler and has a sweet tuach to it. it's not as scary as Doom, but i say just 
 a fun. If you played Doom before you know it sucks to be along all the time in the game. Quake 
 4 gives you team mate. the team thing works really well. the graphic are great, but the only down 
 side is the frame rate to slow. If you look past it Quake for is a really fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_ghost
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Quake IV is highly anticipated sequel to the long running Quake series. The series has been running 
 for nearly a full decade now and always sported some great looking graphics, fantastic multiplayer 
 and been one of the best FPS series. Now we see Quake IV on the Xbox 360. The game isnt necessarily 
 bad but it doesnt live up the greatness of its predecessors. The multiplayer sticks close to what 
 weve seen in previous Quake games and the graphics are drastically underwhelming for the most 
 part. The game is still great just not as good as you might have hoped.
  
  ESRB: M for Mature
  Genre: First person Shooter
  Cost: 59.99cdn
  Platforms: Xbox 360 [reviewed] , 
 PC
  
  Quake 4 for the Xbox 360 is a ported version of the PC game. For years Quake has been a PC only 
 game, but with the success of Doom 3 on the Xbox Activision decided to give another its series 
 a go on a Microsoft Platform. Whats unfortunate about this port is that it turns out nowhere near 
 as good as its PC counterpart. Considering the power of the Xbox 360 the graphics are average at 
 best and youll be fighting some frame-rate issues from beginning to end. The game also scales 
 back on the multiplayer side of things knocking the player count down to 8 [the PC version allows 
 for 16] . The sound and voice work also seems to have been downgraded and there are some noticeably 
 long load times to deal with as well. The Xbox 360 of Quake IV seems drastically toned down from 
 the clearly superior PC version and considering the power of the Xbox 360 its quite disappointing.
 
  
  Unlike Prince of Persia and Knights of the Old republic no prior knowledge of the Quake series 
 is really needed to get into the game. The fact that no quake game has ever had a strong story 
 and that the stories have really never been interconnected are the primary reasons for that. The 
 games story is very simplistic and for the most part is just an excuse to kill a bunch of Strogg. 
 You play through the game as Matthew Kane, a space marine who is there to help combat the evil 
 space alien Strogg. The game starts harmlessly but a HORRIFIC ship incident will kill the bulk 
 of your squad, how TERRIBLE. Youre eventually re-assigned to another task and will have to destroy 
 some defense systems and KILL lots of dudeswhich is all you really want to do anyways -- . The story 
 has never been gripping or outstanding and Quake IV is no different. It does manage to hold your 
 attention throughout the single player, which is all its supposed to do.
  
  Quake IV and Doom 3 are made by the same publishers and some of the same developers. If you played 
 Doom 3 on either the Xbox or the PC youll notice a lot of similarities between the two games. 
 The most noticeable similarity is the level design. Level design was a problem in Doom 3 because 
 everything seemed the same dark corridor after dark corridor. Quake IV tries to do a few things 
 to mix this up and make it seem not so bland. The occasional level will you have in a vehicle outside 
 on the surface on the planet, youll also get to explore some areas on foot outside with the sun 
 blazing down on you. Unfortunately these levels are all linear and despite the brightness in contrast 
 to indoor levels and Doom 3 they still feel enclosed and make the game feel like a way to simplistic 
 run and gun shooter. Only in a couple situations throughout the entire game will you see a new 
 type of level or have multiple pathways to choose from, by the end of the game you feel as if youve 
 been moving down the same corridor for 10-15 hours. 
  
  What makes Quake IV different from Doom 3 is the brightness of the level design and what a FPS 
 really comes to, the weapons. The game of course has your standard weapons the pistol, machine 
 gun, shotgun and rocket launcher. The game also includes a nailgun, railgun, BFG alteration, grenade 
 launcher, hyperblaster and a lightning gun. Whats most interesting about all this is the strength 
 and functionality of each weapon. Surprisingly throughout the campaign the machine gun comes in 
 most handy, it comes attached with a flashlight that can light up the games dark corridors and 
 prevent you from getting unnecessarily mauled by a Strogg warrior. The guns all there have pros 
 and cons which is a necessity in any FPS. Also sporadically throughout the campaigns entirety 
 various marines will upgrade your guns into different guns altogether or more powerful versions 
 of their previous selves. This is a nice pretty unique touch the game and really adds some variety 
 to the gameplay breaking up the constant fire of machine guns and rocket launchers.
  
  Throughout the game the pure shooting is broken by up by some vehicular combat and vehicle driving. 
 Youll occasionally have to man a turret and eliminate armies of Strogg from that view as much 
 as this is similar to just shooting the pacing is spot on and really breaks up the running and 
 gunning action. Also youll drive a vehicle from time to time unfortunately the driving is awkward 
 and discerning. You drive from a first person view and this awkward and the steering is terrible 
 and the controls feel like they are all in the wrong place. Youll also have to a fire a weapon 
 while driving making things even more tedious. The driving portion feels out of place compared 
 to the rest of the game. The controls are awkward and never all that fluid, the reactivity is slow 
 and the entire thing feels like it was added on to toss a curveball and break up the shooting. 
 Its a nice idea in theory but doesnt translate well at all to the game and only creates a huge 
 sense of frustration.
  
  The single player campaign doesnt vary much at all. The campaign is comprised of some very basic 
 levels that never offer a ton of challenge. The only challenges come in the form of the boss fights. 
 The boss fights still arent super challenging or interesting, youll meet the boss in a brief 
 cut-scene and be forced into facing him not really sure why other then it is a Strogg. The action 
 is fast paced which is proper as it is a first person shooter. You never need to worry about covering 
 to much as health is always plentiful and youre the enemy A. I. is brutal. On the default difficulty 
 your enemies have difficulty even hitting you and never group together or get into cover for a 
 better strike. Compared to some of the A. I. weve seen in other shooters like Halo 2 and the more 
 F. E. A. R this gets about as and as it gets on a shooter. Due to this simplicity the A. I. is never 
 really able to offer any challenge and to the game easy level of difficulty.
  
  One of the bigger draws to the Quake series has always been its fantastic multiplayer experience. 
 Quake III; Arena and Quake II broke a lot of ground in online multiplayer on the PC. People literally 
 stayed up all hours of the night and just couldnt get enough of Quakes addictive and simple shooting 
 gameplay. Quake IV tries to re-live and add to the excitement but something is missing. The multiplayer 
 experience isnt as strong or close to as strong as in the earlier Quake games. The biggest cause 
 of this is that there are only 8 players maximum. Considering the power of the Xbox 360 it should 
 be simple to get at least 16 players in on the action, especially considering Xbox games like halo, 
 Star wars: Battlefront II and Delta Force: Black Hawk down all boast 16 or more players in a game. 
 The multiplayer also lacks a sense of polish, addictiveness and just fun in general. Its overly 
 simplistic and lacks creativity or any distinguishing features. 
  
  The multiplayer has your basic game modes like Deathmatch, head to head and a pair of variations 
 on capture the flag. None of these gametypes are all that inventive or really capture your attention 
 and get you excited. The multiplayer can be fun when in a tense Deathmatch but the game just doesnt 
 feel like previous Quake games when playing online, especially considering the PC version has far 
 better online multiplayer support. The maps that you play on are well designed and definitely one 
 of the better aspects of the multiplayer. Several maps are re-vamped editions of maps seen in Quake 
 III-Arena and Quake II. The maps are interesting and all a few cool little quirks to them. Despite 
 the nice touches to the Level design Quake IV feels like a poorly updated version of Quake II Arena 
 and is furthered watered down as a PC port. The multiplayer is functional but with titles like 
 GRAW, Perfect Dark Zero and Call of Duty 2 all offering better multiplayer and better games as 
 a whole its hard to recommend Quake IV as a good multiplayer game even just on the Xbox 360.
  
  Another area where Quake Iv shows signs of being a quick port is the graphics. The most noticeable 
 graphical flaw is the stuttering frame-rate. At random intervals in the game the frame-rate will 
 hiccup. This can be especially frustrating when your in a heated battle and then have to try and 
 fire will the frame-rate corrects itself. Considering the PC version ahs no frame-rate issues this 
 shows signs of a rushed job. The levels, weapons and general look of the game seem like a lighter 
 brighter and slightly vamped up looking Doom 3 on the Xbox. The only great looking visuals are 
 the enemy models which look especially detailed and well crafted. The levels begin to blend together 
 with very little distinguishing each level from the next. In the later levels if feels as if youve 
 just run down one long corridor and have seen the same spots a couple of times. The presentation 
 is also fairly dull and rather bland and uninteresting. The menu system works well and is easy 
 to navigate through and use. Another problem with the game is the some rather lengthy load times 
 between deaths and between levels that really break the action up and get rather annoying by the 
 end of the game. The graphics are mediocre and show a very poor translation of a good looking game.
 
  
  The Sound is solid although not outstanding by any means. The gun sounds are sharp and crisp. The 
 whizzing of bullets flying by and the impact of a bullet on metal are also well done and add a 
 lot to the action and pace of the game. Its good that the gunfights sound great as you hear a lot 
 of bullets and gunfire throughout the game. Unfortunately the voice work in the game isnt as strong 
 as the gun portion. Most of the voices in the game are not heard because of the constantly raging 
 battles and whats there isnt all that great. The lack of solid voice work hampers an otherwise 
 strong sound portion of the game which is probably the best translated aspect of the game to the 
 Xbox 360.
  
  Overall Quake IV is a merely a watered down port of a far superior PC version. If you have even 
 a moderately good PC thats by far the way to for Quake IV. A very poor graphical performance and 
 some terrible load times ruin most of the fun found in Quake IV. With Shooters like Perfect Dark 
 Zero, Call of Duty 2 and Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter its hard to recommend Quake IV on the 
 Xbox 360 to anyone. Unless you have a terrible PC or happen to be a huge Quake fan, I suggest passing 
 on Quake IV.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: westchewbacca
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is an instant classic. it brings back memories also!
  
  Singleplayer- great fighting and lots of action, but there is one problem, there is really no story. 
 all it is killing strogg all the time doing missions. dont get me wrong though, its still fun!
 
  
  multiplayer- the mulitiplayer in quake 4 is insane! it is great, It is really like quake 3 style. 
 same sounds , same powerups, really old school, with a new zing!
  
  This game also includes quake 2, and trailers and stuff, all packed in a paper sleeve, inside the 
 case, quake 2 singleplayer is great. but the attempt at splitscreen was a disaster, dont even try 
 the quake 2 multiplayer, but DO play the single player. i love the music btw.
  
  QUAKE 4
  MUSIC-GREAT
  GRAPHICS-EVEN BETTER
  OVERALL-WORTH THE 60 BUCKS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billa_gorilla1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  As everyone already knows, the Quake series is one of those games that has practically invented 
 the 1st person shooter genre that it is today. However for Quake 4, it seems some people expected 
 a revolution instead of an excellent game with a few rough edges due to a tight launch date.
  
  In Quake 4, you take the role of a random space marine named Kane, and the story leads right 
 off from Quake 2 in which humans are invading an alien race known as the strogg. The strogg are 
 pretty much technological savages that kill others in order to build more strogg and in an important 
 plot twist YOU are eventually captured and rebuilt as a strogg and become the only person capable 
 of saving the human race. A word of warning, this game is very gory!!!!
  
  The game sees you fighting your way through hundreds of strogg using deadly futuristic weapons 
 such as NailGuns, RailGuns, ShotGuns, LightningGuns and many others. Also, there are many varieties 
 of strogg such as Grunts, Gladiators, tanks, acid-breathing strogg rejects and even female strogg. 
 Another unique feature is the new vehicles that have been absent from previous games including 
 Tanks, walkers, trams and other mounted vehicles which you'll use to fight massive spider-like 
 strogg havesters.
  
  As far as graphics go, Quake 4 is little inconsistent in which some areas make this game look absolutely 
 stunning (ie runner-up for best looking 360 game) and a few other areas look a bit like some PS2 
 games. Another thing on everyones mind is the framerate Gamespot loves to nag about. In my honest 
 opinion, it isn't too bad. Perfectly fun and enjoyable, but a little bit lazy of Raven to simply 
 reduce the visuals to compensate but still have a slight framerate drop. Do not base your decision 
 on getting this game because of the framerate, it doesn't ruin your experience!!
  
  Multiplayer is also fairly good and will remind many players of the older Quake games in terms 
 of how it plays. It's got your basic deathmatch, teamDM, CTF, tourney and ranked matches etc. so 
 should be fun for those who have and haven't played any Quake games. I did have a few problems 
 trying to find a game, but if you keep at it, it's not a problem at all. A final thing worth mentioning 
 is that Quake 4 comes with a bonus DVD that includes Making of videos and a 360 version of Quake 
 2 that can be played through single player or co-op.
  
  All in all, if you've enjoyed any previous Id game such as Quake, Doom or Return to Castle Wolfenstien 
 (or even any FPS for that matter) , you WILL like Quake 4, and I would recommend it as a purchase 
 or a rental at the least. It's probably the 360's most overlooked launch title and should've been 
 on everyone's (R16+) wishlist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 19, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Lesser version of Doom 3 is just all I can say about this game. The graphics are great, and the 
 physics and gameplay are just outstanding, but when you put in in Doom 3 format, it just ruins 
 it. I gave Doom 3 a 9.2, but I don't want another game to be like Doom 3! It gets very boring, 
 and stale. You can still inspect the surprises from enemies. Here what I think of it.
  
  Gameplay is similar to Doom 3. You still have that b@dass character, and the stiffy game controls. 
 Just don't expect greater gameplay from the game, because the game is just like Doom 3, and really, 
 it's getting kinda of dumb.
  
  The story is old and feels like you played it five years ago. The enemies are kinda funny by acting 
 like dumb robots with dumb AI. The story might be better because you will become a robot later 
 in the game. Though, it doesn't turn you anything cool and no power ups.
  
  The sound is great. Really, I think this is maybe the best futuristic game out there, even though 
 it's the only one except for PD0. The sounds on the enemies are great, and the explosions are just 
 odd! Rent this game for the sound of 
  
  Quake 4 is a great and okay game and all, but I expected a little more than what the game presented. 
 After the third one came out, the game started to get alittle odd and stale like the Doom series. 
 But if you want to rent this game, get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boarding4ever
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  the game is kinda addictive and the story is pretty bland but the gameplay is alright. i enjoyed 
 killing strogg a little although at some points there were to many and i didn't have enough ammo. 
 i didn't even try multiplayer. the graphics are okay but one thing i did find was that there wasn't 
 any slow down in frame rate as gamespot has stated. my xbox handled with the finesse that i payed 
 for and it was overall an okay but average gameplay experience. please make enemy territory better 
 than this. just rent the game because it's overall not worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tefdesign
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  I am sure all of you have seen the reviews here, and on other game review sites, and I am here 
 to inform you that the reviews are way off base, and I am going to tell you why...
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This is not just a game where you walk around and blast things. Yes, you do spend 
 a majority of time in the standard FPS mode, but the game offers tank driving, walker piloting, 
 and a few rail type levels. But to me, the game really hits a high note when you are "Stroggified". 
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The graphical presentation on this game is impressive. The character models are well done. Some 
 of the levels are frighteningly crafted, and running around in the dark makes for some tense gameplay. 
 The scenes in James Cameron's "Aliens" in where the Marines initially arrive on alien infested 
 planet come to mind. Have only run across a few "lag" locations, but not enough to warrant such 
 low scores. This game is very gory.
  
  SOUND:
  
  With the surround system turned up, and the lights off, this game will immerse the player. The 
 planet Strogg has some creepy sounds that do an excellent job of making the game feel alive. The 
 voice acting is second to none, with several big name Hollywood types lending their voices.
  
  VALUE:
  
  The singleplayer game is awesome, and in depth, with a few plot twists uncovered 
 along the way. The multiplayer is a little weak, but still playable. The 50 achievements will keep 
 you busy. A co-op mode would have hit the spot.
  
  TILT:
  
  Great game, with a great mood, that has been crucified unfairly by poor and unjust reviews.
  
 
  Thanks for taking the time and reading my review.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is another one of those games that you wonder why they did not take the time to optimize 
 the heck out of it before realease. Its obvious the hardware can handle the game because there 
 are several games that look much better and run smoothly on the 360.
  
  If they would have spent the time to do this they could have easily had a game worth 9 or higher 
 but since they decided not to the score suffers.
  
  Don't get me wrong though because this game is great fun and has some great visuals, but sometimes 
 the framerate dips to rainman perportions. This only happens maybe once every 45 minutes of play 
 but it is very noticable and unlike some games it can affect gameplay. One other thing that was 
 annoyng is that when NPC's talk to you they are muffled and hard to understand unless you turn 
 the volume way up.
  
  If you are a FPSaholic you will find Q4 a enjoyable romp but I would reccomend renting this title 
 and not buying it because there really is no reason to play it more then once unless you just want 
 the acheivements and the multiplayer is fun but not fun enough to keep playing for long.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy27
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Good Idea:
  Graphics are great and smooth.
  Fun and addicting mulitplayer (if you can find people) .
  Comes with Quake II full version with 
 multi player!!
  
  Bad Idea:
  Sounds are just incredibly muffled.
  A tiny lag sometimes in the graphics era 
  Not enough people playing online.
  
  Overall:
 
  A great shooter and worth the $49 I spent on it. When I'm done with it, I can kick back with some 
 remastered Quake II!
  
  -------------------------------------------
  
  The game runs just fine for me. I'm also running an updated firmware on my Xbox360. I rarely run 
 into any slowdowns. Basically, the frames go from like 50fps to 30fps when there's a ton of things 
 on the screen at once. That's nothing. I have this game on PC, and I didn't want to upgrade my 
 PC for a few grand, so this is running just fine for me. Still, major slowdowns? I haven't seen 
 any. I will say the sound completely **** You have to turn completely around to hear what the heck 
 your teammates are saying. The other sounds aren't that spiffy either. The multi player is a great 
 experience since I think Quake III is one of the best arena death match games ever. I just wish 
 they had bots... and split screen. And third person mode just so I can watch my guy run around.
 
  
  I dunno much about the story. I found Quake II to just be a shooter with cool weapons when I was 
 younger so I don't really care about that. I just like the game. It's fun. Plus it comes with Quake 
 II, and it looks just as old skool as old skool can get. If it weren't for the sounds, this game 
 would be more than perfect.
  
  Besides, the only lag I've been getting is online play. But it could be my DSL is just running 
 a little slow. 
  
  -------------------------------------------
  
  Violence:
  A ton of gore and you are contantly seeing torchered humans. You even get to see people sawed 
 into pieces.
  
  Sexuality:
  None.
  
  Language:
  A load of big words but only in the single player. It's only when someone is talking to you. The 
 Strogg doesn't cuss, at least in our language.
  
  Substance Use:
  None. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rasgueado
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 10, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is the new action game from Raven and id software. Despite the numerical denomination, 
 this game continues the story from Quake 2 and humanitys war against the Strogg. In this title 
 you play as a new member of Rhino Squadron that is being sent down in the aftermath of the defeat 
 of the Makron. (Quake 2) Unfortunately the Strogg arent quite so easy to beat and the landing 
 ship is quickly shot down. The game that results from this set-up is immediately familiar and fairly 
 predictable, but still turns out to be a fun, if flawed, action game.
  
  Quake 4 is frustrating as there are many places where so much potential from the engine and the 
 license was squandered for something less. The graphics engine is one of those frustrating dichotomies 
 in this game. There is no denying that this game looks great though the art direction is somewhat 
 lacking in some departments. Many of the textures in this game are fairly low resolution and look 
 bad when placed next to the high resolution textures. Just as some of the models in this game look 
 amazing, and others look like they were rushed to completion. The giant spider walkers for example 
 have some great details like the undulating feelers that are constantly in motion under the body. 
 Some of the basic grunt models however look blocky in comparison.
  
  Some people have reported that this game looks worse than the PC version as some of the textures 
 are washed out and not as sharp. As an owner of a high end PC with a Geforce 7900gtx I can assure 
 you that the same textures look as washed out on the PC as they do the Xbox 360. The art direction 
 in this game is just frustrating in that respect. The one area where there *is* a difference however 
 is in the frame rate. At this point in time the PC version runs a lot better than the Xbox 360 
 version. The developers have hinted at doing a point release for the console after the PC patches 
 have been finalized, but as of yet nothing has been confirmed to correct this issue and it *IS* 
 a big issue.
  
  The sound suffers a similar fate as the graphics do in this game. Some of the sounds are really 
 great, and the positional 5.1 effects are all nicely implemented. Some of the weapons sounds are 
 slightly anemic compared to what the weapon youre holding ideally should sound like, and some 
 of the creature sounds are awkward. The music in this game is also something that is mostly forgettable, 
 but thankfully isnt annoying.
  
  The weapons in the game, despite not all sounding great, run a decent range and also will continue 
 to gain new features as the game progresses. Most of the weapons that you will find throughout 
 the course of the single player campaign will be upgraded at various intervals by certain NPCs 
 in the story. This is a nice feature since you wont immediately have all of the toys in the game 
 once youve found all of the weapons. The guns themselves are: Pistol, Machine Gun, Shotgun, Nail 
 gun, Rail gun, Hyper blaster, Grenade Launcher, Lightning gun, and the Black Hole Generator. Each 
 weapon has some fairly specific uses and tends to cater to the style of the player. My one problem 
 with the game is how useless the Rail gun feels in this game as compared to Quake 2. As someone 
 that enjoyed using it in the past, it just felt very weak in this incarnation.
  
  The levels in this game are as varied as they could be I suppose for the setting. Despite mainly 
 being inside for the majority of the game, the developers have come up with a way to somehow make 
 areas that should all look the same different. This isnt to say that theres a lot of variety 
 in terms of level design but there were only a few instances where I really felt like I had been 
 there before. 
  
  The levels are all fairly long some more than others. The challenges in each level set are also 
 fairly distinct and yet still familiar. In this version of the game however, the marine NPCs 
 that are found throughout the game also generate new hidden objectives. Generally the player is 
 rewarded with an achievement for keeping computer controlled marines alive, which at least gives 
 them a purpose in the game on the Xbox. Generally however the allied AI is fairly stupid, and 
 will get killed very easily.
  
  Thankfully you can save and load anywhere you would like in a level! This is a feature that should 
 be in every game, however, in Quake 4 the save and load times are fairly long. With any luck this 
 might be addressed in a point release patch, though its more likely that the long load times will 
 be here to stay.
  
  By the time you reach the end of the single player campaign you should have clocked in around the 
 requisite 10 hours or so for completion. At this point the multiplayer game will likely be the 
 primary focus until you want to try and attack the game at a higher difficulty setting. The multiplayer 
 portion of the game still requires a little bit of work however.
  
  There are numerous bugs associated with the multiplayer portion of this game. There are various 
 crash and hang bugs as well as one or two joining bugs. Should you be lucky enough to actually 
 play a multiplayer game without any difficulties, the experience will feel a lot like the single 
 player game. There is nothing new that Quake 4 offers in its multiplayer mode than you can find 
 anywhere else. What it *does* do however, it does fairly well.
  
  The multiplayer in Quake 4 is fast paced and very reminiscent of the game play found in Quake 3. 
 Jump pads are placed throughout the map for players to fling themselves with, and many of the old 
 power ups from the old title make a return here as well. Generally speaking, this mode is a nice 
 addition to the single player game, but at this point in time it isnt a particularly compelling 
 aspect of the game play. Were Raven to clean up their multiplayer issues and release a few new 
 maps it might be something to come back to, but until that time its more of a play at your own 
 risk.
  
  Quake 4 is a frustrating title to review as it should be better than it is, but it isnt. The game 
 play is definitely fun and exciting, but the frame rate issues stop it from being as exciting as 
 it could be. The graphics are also nice, and a lot of the models look really good but the inconsistent 
 art direction hampers this game from achieving its true brilliance. If youre a long time fan of 
 the series, and find this game at a reasonable price, it could definitely be worth picking up 
 especially if they patch it. For most people out there, this title will likely be best enjoyed 
 first as a rental. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: furionpride
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game, for the most part. It brought back a lot of memories of Doom 3, because the 
 graphics are the same! One thing that is regreteblty noticeable is the graphical performance issues. 
 I didnt really find them that anoying because I am used to it. Games I play on my PC are five-year-old 
 games and they chop... why?... because I'm pore. lol. Quake 4 was a game that I was looking forward 
 to untill I learned that Raven was developing it. I love Id's, and Raven's games, but to entrust 
 another company with your project, that risks the entire series's motivation. I hate the idea of 
 that. That's like taking a 360 and slapping a "Sony" sticker on it. I would recomend that you rent 
 this game first. 
  
  At the end of the race, this game is alright for a new chapter in Quake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewierules91
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  THis game was fun, but i would have enjoyed a multiplayer (not online) online kicks ass. One player 
 was just ok. very bloody. NOT VERY INTENSE. I often found myself walking around, waiting, and looking 
 for some meat, and it often got boring. in the heat of battles, though, I was hooked. it was fun, 
 but easy. online is fun, but for online, you should definately play the computer version. Trust 
 me. I have both and I am gonna sell my 360 one. bleh. not intense enough. environments aren't destructable, 
 enemies are easy, and walking gets old. It is like myst with the occasional alien. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolas_Katarn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Pros: 
  
  Reminds me of the old days, a good-looking game, guns have good sound effects, and the voice-overs 
 are done right.
  
  Cons: 
  
  Unpolished multiplayer, game is not a big step up from Quake 2 and 3, vehicle parts are easy and 
 boring
  
  Gameplay Single Player:
  
  The game starts out making you believe you are getting your moneys worth. A cut-scene showing dead 
 marines floating amongst rubble in space, you and your fellow squad members flying to the surface 
 of Marummmm I mean the Strogg home world, your ship gets hit and it crashes. For a huge surprise 
 that really makes you think you have gotten your moneys worth you awake to findonly one or two 
 dead bodies and to see a cut-scene of another marine getting killed, you know what that means, 
 most of your squad actually lived, now there is a surprise. The first two or three missions are 
 very well done but the game just gets worse from then on. 
  
  The levels begin to get boring and look somewhat similar. Instead of fighting with others you are 
 alone, twice in the same level you are forced to see two of your squad-mates get killed in the 
 most idiotic fashion while you just stand and watch. You eventually get captured and are partly 
 made into a Strogg, which was one of the most poorly kept plot twists ever. This changes three 
 things you now run faster (as fast as all the other marines, I guess your guy would not have made 
 it onto the track team) , you get an added 25 points to your health, and can now use Strogg healing 
 stations to recharge your health. Another new feature is the addition of vehicles. How are they? 
 Well, I hate them to be blunt. Way to easy when you are in them, the shields and armor even recharges. 
 When you are on a turret the game just feels like an on rails shooter. Controls for them feel like 
 Halo and the shield ability to recharge will remind you even more of Halo. 
  
  The gameplay is similar to Doom 3. Enter an area run through it killing everything; get to the 
 end of the level, load up the next area. The only difference is that Doom 3 had a better environment 
 and a good chance of scaring you, Quake 4 has neither. 
  
  The story is decent, nothing special. It is what is expected from most FPS games.
  
  The weapons 
 in the game are interesting and are all upgradable. Some of the weapons available to you are a 
 pistol, shotgun, nailgun, and a very powerful gravity gun that sucks in and kills nearby enemies.
 
  
  Gameplay Multiplayer:
  
  It is uninspired at best. It plays exactly like Quake 3, meaning that it is like a faster version 
 of the single player, which was already fast enough with it being a run and gun game. The gametypes 
 you can play are Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag, of course, but they have also 
 added two new gametypes. The first is a tournament where you battle one on one and when you win 
 a match you move up the tournament tree, not that interesting. The other is Arena Capture the Flag, 
 which is like capture the flag but with power up pickups which seems to try to add some strategy 
 to the game. Every time I tried to get in a game there were usually no people playing, but the 
 few times I did get in a game the lag made the game almost unplayable. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The first thing that you notice about the game is the graphics, especially how good the character 
 models look. I later became disappointed by the recycled objects and the terrain for the planet 
 when you are outside is all the same. This makes the games good graphics feel like a waste sometimes.
 
  
  Although gamespots review complained of slowdown I rarely ever had any, and when I did it was 
 bearable and only lasted for a few seconds.
  
  Sound:
  
  They did a great job with the sound effects in this game. Weapons actually sound powerful instead 
 of the usual quite popping sounds that most games have their guns make. The voice-overs are also 
 very well done, though much of it is just the screams of groups of marines getting slaughtered. 
 Even the voices of the Stogg are well done though most you just hear as announcements when in their 
 areas; they dont communicate to each other during battle.
  
  Value: 
  
  Not much of a deal at this time a short single player game that is just ok and a multiplayer that 
 feels like you are playing Quake 3. Although the special edition comes with Quake 2, playing Quake 
 4 already feels like you are playing Quake 2, and it will cost you more money.
  
  Tilt: 
  
  The Game feels like two games in one, or maybe I should say two remakes in one. The graphics 
 are great but are usually put to waste and none of the added features help the game in any way. 
 A decent shooter, but not great and not one that is worth its current price.
  
  How does it compare to the other versions:
  
  If you were going to buy the PC or the 360 version 
 it would be best to go with the PC version. Cheaper, better looking, a better online mode, and 
 downloads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GS_darkplayer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I think it was grate game. But it not as good then last halls and pathgies Quake game ( Quake 2) . 
 QUAKE 3 was baesicly a multi player game. And was not true QUAKE game. And QUAKE 4 should have 
 been taking little more time they they did. But you can't change thing. But also. They should have 
 a local opion in multiplayer goes. Becoues not everone have room to have a secend XBOX 360 around. 
 Or have the money to buy one. But that is not bad at all in the end. But i hope that Quake 5 is 
 a lot moer better then Quake 4. And i hope they do DOOM 4 for the heck of it. becoues that would 
 be really cool they did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterx1059
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I read a lot of negative things about this game. The biggest indictment came from this website, 
 slamming the game for it's poor framerate. I think that issue was totally overblown. Yes there 
 are times when the game does slow down. However, not to the point of disrupting your game. That's 
 not to say that Quake 4 is perfect, it's not. While I think the graphics are a slight upgrade from 
 current gen systems, they do nothing to take advantage of the power of the 360. Also, missions 
 do get repetitive, and the story is not very engaging. But the bottom line with Quake 4 is this: 
 If you are looking for a fast-paced, quick on the draw shooter, this is a great buy. If you are 
 looking for a good story with outstanding next-gen graphics, you need to look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1esh_Grinder
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 was release for the Xbox 360 at launch that was suppose to be a non-stop action FPS, but 
 it failed for many reasons. The graphics in this game are nothing new and the controls are pretty 
 soild, but the frame rate on this game has a major slowdown when things get crazy too on screen. 
 To me this game really felt like a rushed title that was just a straight port from its PC brother. 
 The bonus disc has the full playable version of QUAKE 2 but I only wish it had some type of achievements 
 on it so no thanks, been there done that. The online aspect could be fun if you find a room within 
 20 min. going into it. The bottom line is, this game is a rent to me but if you love to run and 
 kill everything in sight and dont really care about moving 9 frames a second at times then go buy 
 this flop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01casey
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  For a game to be anticipated as The New Halo, by many pundits, Quake 4 certainly had a lot to 
 live up to. Lets see what the two share in common; crash landing on alien territory - check. Evil 
 enemies - check. Awful endings - check. Quake 4 certainly does share similarities with the Xboxs 
 killer app, but how does it execute them?
  
  Quake 4, as you have probably guessed, is set in space, and starts with Corporal Matthew Kane and 
 his squad crash-landing on Strogg territory. Kane wakes up in the middle of a war zone, and must 
 fight for his life through many missions against the oncoming hordes of enemies. Talking of enemies, 
 Quake 4 offers undoubtedly the nastiest of the bunch: The Strogg.
  
  Ahh, the Strogg. How you make the Covenant look like teddy bears, and in all aspects, the Floods 
 brutality look like a primary school scrap. They really are evil buggers. It doesnt help that 
 they are big, scary, and really want you dead either. 
  
  The Strogg also bring the word gore to mind, and horror fans all round, this game has more blood 
 than you could ever imagine. Its gritty, horrible gore aswell. Not the kind of gore you and your 
 mates can have a laugh about, but buckets full of blood. Human blood. So if you like gore, youll 
 be a very happy bunny with Quake 4.
  
  The game itself plays like youd expect from a Quake game. Enter a level, then get scared, shoot 
 a few Strogg, then get out. No prizes for plot originality then? But its not the plot that Quake 
 4 aims to please with. Its the simplicity of offering a FPS which you actually get to shoot lots 
 of bad guys in, without having to worry too much about a plot. Its kind of like Doom 3, but relying 
 more on shooting than atmosphere. It does have a fair balance of the two nevertheless.
  
  Unfortunately, the game also has its bad points, and boy what errors they are. The main one that 
 you will notice is that the frame rate is all over the show. This can make sluggish fights when 
 there is more than one team-mate/enemy firing, and even the case of walking through a door is eye-torture 
 with Quake 4s dreadful graphical errors. It really is laziness compared to the smooth PC version. 
 A good example of how bad the frame rate is, is to watch or play the level where you are on rails 
 in a tram. Its so slow, you wont believe that it is next gen that you are playing. 
  
  With graphics on our mind, Quake 4 doesnt really offer anything special. Okay, there are some 
 nice touches on the interior, but apart from that, its just dull, drab and boring looking. 
  
  Quake 4s multiplayer is where this game shines most, and is officially the death match game 
 to play. If you love death matches, then youll love Quake 4 online. Its sometimes tricky to get 
 into games, but once you do, and eight player death match can be real fun. Multiplayer is really 
 where this game is at.
  
  Sadly, this game is quite short, and can be completed within a few days if played on the easier 
 two difficulty settings. But those days will be gore filled, stroggified ones nevertheless. Quake 
 4 isnt the new Halo by a long way, but its a decent game which you will enjoy playing, even if 
 its just for the multiplayer. Dont let the graphical issues put you off too much and this is 
 a little FPS gem. Should have been more though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcamilli1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is an interesting beast. It looks fantastic outside of the actually gun models. the problem 
 with this game is that people are tearing it apart saying it has major technical flaws. Quake 4 
 isnt perfect by n e means but it does still hold a fun entertaining experience.
  
  Reviewers all over have been saying this game's frame rate is abysimal and i disagree with that. 
 It does suffer from some slow down, but these are more like hiccups in the framerate. personally, 
 these havnt taken away from the game or made it unplayable by any means.
  
  The strong points of Quake 4 are obvious, the graphics are absolutly georgous. the enviornments 
 range from mech style corridors to wide open vistas. the battlefields are nasty in the way they 
 represent the battles. Marines flood the area and gun fire and smoke fill the air. The lighting 
 system is also amazing. the flashlight looks like an actually flashlight making u feel like ur 
 the one holding the barrel. (maybe this is becuase im playing on a 32 XBR LCD by Sony) . The only 
 negative to the graphics at all are the guns themself dont seem to be rendered very well it comparision 
 to the enviornments. they look kinda pasted on.
  
  The sound design is also very well done. the music represents the on screen action very well and 
 really helps to drive the immersion factor up. guns and explosions are also represented well. The 
 voice over work is hit or miss.... some people sound awsome, and some are just annoying.
  
  The biggest let down of Quake 4 is that it hasn't broken away from DOOM 3, the enviornments looks 
 similar at times and the general gameplay concept is the same. walk, shoot some thing, repeat.
 
  
  Summary- Quake 4 is a fun game and is definatly worth taking a look at, it isnt Perfect Dark Zero 
 or Ghost Recon but its still fun no the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam-o-
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is what it says it is, a first person shooter, guns and ugly mo'fo's to use em on! what 
 i found was great about this game was the range of weapons. You can go from a useless handgun to 
 a deadly launcher that fires a dark vortex through a room that sucks up anything in its path then 
 explodes, after that onto a mindblowing rocket launcher with an amazing rate of fire that i would 
 recommed for use on any big nasty bad guy. also i think the variety of character models are impressive, 
 every zombie looks unique in his own way.
  
  The gameplay is OK with the usual go here, activate this, find him and blow up this it can get 
 extremely boring after afew hours but it can be revived with a different approach to the game or 
 going on an achivement hunt, anyone who can get the dark lord achivement deserves a war medal! 
 After a while the levels start to look the same, it's like walking in big circles then letting 
 them get smaller and smaller, really you feel like you have been in the same area over and over 
 again and the repetitive level structure doesn't help this, every level is the same exept each 
 room will have a different shade of lighting brilliant eh?
  
  However it does have it's moments i sure you've heard of it before but the stroggification cutscene 
 is probably one of the best cutscenes you'll have seen in a long time.
  
  You can tell how much effort has gone into this but what i don't uderstand is what happened to 
 quake 3 why is quake 4 the sequel to 2? how hard is it to follow a storyline?! speaking of storylines 
 this games story wasn't so bad, after planet strogg's planetary defences where disabled by a lone 
 marine from quake 2 the whole Earth fleet is sent in to try and take the enemy planet but you and 
 your fellow marines are faced with a massive challenge after you are dropped in the wrong area, 
 an area basically overun by strogg forces (however easilly killable they are) once you have cleared 
 the area a human mother ship lands, what year is this? then your specially trained squad are ordered 
 with the task of destroying a crucil strogg communication system that turns the tide of the war 
 ect, ect. during this mission you are captured and turned into one of the things you hate but are 
 saved at the last moment, then you are an invaluble solider to the human race, you know the usual.
 
  
  On the whole this is a game probably worth buying, oh and also all these complaints of graphical 
 imperfections are to picky this at the most only happens about 3 times in a full story game and 
 it only lasts about 4 seconds don't worry about that. So overall i would say this worth buying 
 for people who are bored of COD 2 or PDZ zero. Take a chilling rest and play Quake 4.
  
  Thanks for reading
  Sam 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  QUAKE has been a old franchise from the middle 90's, and has been very popular cause of it's great 
 graphics and gore gameplay, but does the same count for it's latest part, QUAKE 4?
  
  QUAKE 4 is about a marine that has to fight some sort of alien world with a lot of marines. It 
 seems like war has been between Earth and the alien world. These aliens are cruel things, that 
 use gore weapons and other guns to kill their enemies, so it's promising that there will be a lot 
 of swinging blood and organs like in the past games.
  
  Gameplay, QUAKE looks a lot like it's older versions. Back then those games were great fun for 
 PC gamers, and very bloody with a lot of violence and gore. Like I told, it's about a marine... 
 again. In the last games it was the same like this, crashing on planet, big ass army of humans, 
 fighting alien scum, you call fill in the rest. So that's kinda boring, but now you have some back-up 
 with squad members and other marines, and that's fun. but QUAKE 4 could use some new paint. Just 
 like the multiplayer, that just might be the worst part of QUAKE 4. It's the most baddest multiplayer 
 I've ever seen in a FPS game with DOOM 3. It has vehicles though, but that just doesn't fit in 
 QUAKE 4, and the gametypes are also very old and uninspired.
  
  Graphics are perfect... to a lot of people yes. It has , like most of you know, the DOOM 3 engine, 
 and you can see that clearly, only, DOOM 3 never had a real out-side fight cause it was on Mars, 
 so no oxygen. But, in QUAKE 4 there are some outside battles you'll have to face... you ight think 
 by now what I'm going to say. Yes, the envirement looks perfect, but if you look further then you 
 can walk, it will all be 2D, it looks like it has been just a drawboard, and that's normally not 
 that annoying, but it is here, it looks too damn fake.
  
  Sound, well, the sound is just fair. Not less, not more. There isn't any viriation in the gun sounds, 
 but the explosions sounds are well done, and so are the gun sounds, even with out there uninspired 
 sounds.
  
  Value, well, this game is too uninspired. We don't live anymore in the 90's when shooters came 
 to life. We live in the year 2005, shooters are almost like real war. QUAKE 4 looks too much like 
 it's older version and too much like DOOM 3.
  
  Tilt, QUAKE 4 can be fun of course, it's only uninspired crap sometimes. It's looks too much like 
 it's older versions and DOOM 3. Just uninspired, sadley, it could have been much better then this. 
 And this Xbox 360 version, doesn't give QUAKE 4 a better look. It even sucks more than the PC version.
 
  
  Good points
  
  +Great graphics.
  +Nice weapons to get.
  +Might get a little, very little scary.
  
  Bad points
  
  -Lame storyline.
  -Lame AI.
 
  -Too easy for words.
  -Is a disgrace to the name of next-gen gaming
  -Multiplayer doesn't feel needed at all.
  -Not a really fun game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockokla4life
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 was my first purchase for the Xbox 360 console.. my initial reaction was to the fine tuned 
 graphics.. and quality of sound within the game.. however i was soon to find out that there were 
 as the gamespot team said graphical errors and glitches.. if you were to rent this game you'd probably 
 have your initial reaction be wow this games alright.. but i'd dare say just rent do not buy! for 
 the achievements pose a feat in and of themselves and the multiplayer killed itself.. it truly 
 is a disaster compared to such multiplayer powerhouses like call of duty 2, perfect dark zero, 
 and halo 2. if you enjoy run and gunners though i'd say this one will be for you my friend! with 
 few intense moments where enemies will pop out of you and take you by suprise and for the most 
 part your flashlight WILL remain on! so i say this game is not for the faint of heart, but i'd 
 think this game was disappointing even to the biggest of quake fans! my advice rent before you 
 buy! its almost a good game.. somewhere in there within the depths of the strogg world there is 
 a winner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  I strictly play multiplayer online and I love the game. I'm a fan of "run and gun" games, and Quake 
 4 is exactly what I want in a FPS. I also like Doom 3 for original Xbox and Halo 2, but not very 
 good at Halo 2. Frequent frame rate drops are a pain. It usually takes a few minutes to start a 
 game online each time, and I experience pretty frequent connection errors, though never in mid-game. 
 Also, controller sensitivity seems to vary greatly from game to game, so it's a bit annoying to 
 have to adjust it each time. Sound quality is better than Doom 3 because the explosions actually 
 finish rather than being cut off like Doom 3. I can't really comment on the single player side 
 of the game, because I'm more interested in playing online. For me, any game I play more than 10 
 hours is great value. If you like Doom 3, (especially the multiplayer) , then here's an Xbox 360 
 equivalent.
  
  *** UPDATE 6/11/06 ***
  After playing approx. 500 multiplayer ranked matches, I've grown weary of waiting for game matches 
 to begin; 90-120 seconds is a long time to wait over and over and over for every match to begin, 
 and very often connections will hang or lag upon entry. In addition, server connection quality 
 and dependability vary wildly, creating issues where controller sensitivity is often too high or 
 too low, game lag to the point where you have to restart the game (yet another 90-120 sec. wait) , 
 and other things like failed connections and Xbox Alert errors (again, with another 90-120 sec. 
 wait) . Generally, I feel as though more time is spent trying to find good connections than enjoying 
 the game. Load and wait times were the sole reason I sold my PSP (that, plus the fact that the 
 game controller config. sucks) . I have never experienced any of the same issues with other Xbox 
 multiplayer games.
  
  Lastly, I rather detest the fact that you can't simply host a game and select a specific map to 
 use like you can with Doom III; maps in multiplayer ranked matches are only randomized in Quake 
 4. The game feels rushed. It could have been much better; it could have been special. Xbox 360 
 needs more Sci-Fi FPS shooters. I loathe the perpetual barrage of miltary-based themes like GRAW, 
 Outpost, Battlefield 2, Far Cry, Ghost Recon, etc. It's obvious they're holding out on the Sci-Fi 
 FPS games in order to generate extreme anticipation for the big Halo 3 release. I'd like to see 
 more online multiplayer releases in the likes of Gun, Dark Watch, Area 51, Mech Assault, etc. 
 
  
  Doom III is arguably the best online multiplayer FPS game next to Halo 2, but those were made for 
 original Xbox, and it doesn't look like Microsoft will make Doom III playable on the 360 any time 
 soon. 
  
  Quake 4 is a decent campaign game, and multiplayer is reasonable if you pick a day when connections 
 are good (like Wednesdays) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _angelo_
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 18, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Despite harsh reviews from multiple sources, Quake 4 is a decent game. As for the frame-rate and 
 graphical performance issues, I noticed hardly any frame-rate slow downs while playing campaign, 
 and minimal lag during online play. Stripped down, Quake 4 is a good game.
  
  While not the best of the X360 launch titles, Quake 4 uses the X360's capabilities well. Some textures 
 are a bit grainy, but overall the game looks fairly decent.
  
  The game sports an intense, gory campaign mode that fans of Doom and Half Life will enjoy. While 
 is't not as scary as games like Resident Evil and Doom, you will frequently find yourself on the 
 edge of your seat during your trips down the dark hallways of Strogg-infested buildings. While 
 most of the game is spent navigating dimly lit, narrow corridors, there are some more open air 
 battles that provide a welcome breather.
  
  On a less positive note, Quake 4's multiplayer is simply broken. The boring level design and lack 
 of fun gametypes make for not-so-great online matches. Obviously, developers spent the majority 
 of their time working on this game's campaign. In the end, the good things about the game's campaign 
 outway its mediocre multiplayer experience.
  
  ANGELO'S VERDICT
  A fairly good game, which will appeal to some people, but not others.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratty690
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Quake4 is a good game but suffers from bad graphics and slow frame-rate .It has a good storyline 
 but the game-play does get a little repetitive, and its irritating to just fall off some damn place 
 and having to restart the whole area again ,that is, unless you save .The games weapons are ok and 
 they can be modified so it keeps the game-play fresh, other than that, the game is kinda weird ,especially 
 the part when you become half strogg and some other parts of the game. The bad part of the game-play 
 is that your squad-mates practically let you do all the work by yourself and pretty dumb and useless 
 .The vehicles in the game are ok, but it may seem that the enemy's vehicles are so much better than 
 yours because if you fire ,maybe 12 rockets at a particular type of walker ,it still won't die, plus, some 
 of the missions can last for hours ,but the thing that annoyed me most is that almost every part 
 of the game your alone and when you find another marine from another squad, he always ends up dying 
 in some way or another and most of the areas in the game is pretty dark so its hard to see if you 
 aren't using a machine gun or a blaster and all the other guns have no flashlights so every time 
 you are in a dark place you will have to switch into either one of those weapons which have flashlights, if 
 your machine gun runs out of ammo, you'll have to endanger your life using the blaster but it has 
 a challenging campaign and its pretty fun seeing blood squirting out of people you shoot . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warfighter101
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  This game started off a little slow. You were not given much to work with. So I thought that I 
 would come to understand it later, but it never really explains much. All you do is kill strogg 
 and then become one of them. That is pretty much the basis of the storyline. You are part of the 
 Elite squad called Rhino Squad. You have to put up with the crapper missions and phony accents 
 in your time with Rhino Squad. The online was not enjoyable for me. I never really liked the fast 
 paced multiplayer, it was never my thing. The graphics are impressive, but become meaningless due 
 to average plot and bad sound. This game is fun at parts but becomes very, very repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: organic_oreo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  When people review this game, they expect it to be a "halo-killer" well it isn't SO GET OVER IT. 
 just cuz Halo's good doesn't meen every game needs to live up to it's standards. Nw that you know 
 i'm going to rate this game for what it IS... lets get started.
  
  Multiplayer: Its just fun, OK? While you may not be able to get a quick game up and running, what 
 it does have to offer is a classic  
 aspect. Thats actually a cool thing though, you NEVER need to realod your weapon in multiplayer. 
 So get into this game expecting a good time.
  
  Gameplay: While i'm not going to say this is the games strongest stand point, it certainly isn't 
 terrible. It consists mainly the run-n-gun gameplay, so expect a quick to learn game. no catch.
 
  
  Graphics: This is where people get angery... These graphics use a suped-up version of the Doom 
 3 engine. The textures are very rich and detailed. While some people say there is a lot of lag 
 while others say there is none... HERES THE LOW-DOWN!!! If you run up to a group of 10 enemies shooting 
 them with a Bazooka... theres gonna be lag. But if you just keep your cool and shoot them from 
 a-far, you should have a smoth ride the whole way through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This game could be better in spots but still it's worth it. The first thing you notice is the very 
 good graphics it just looks fantastic the only problem is the horrible framerate it gets down right 
 atrocious in some spots. The gameplay is very good, i enjoyed it a bit more than doom 3 ( because 
 they finally put a flash light in the game ) You can upgrade your weapons along the way and the 
 bad guys don't jump right out in front of you like they did in Doom 3, It's storyline is the best 
 that ID has ever created ( although that's not saying much ) . The game also sounds really good 
 too it's got really great sound affects and the voice acting is well done although it's hard to 
 hear them during battle in some instances. The online play is pretty good although it sticks too 
 close to quake 3 arena ou can have up to 8 players I wish you could have 16 like they did on the 
 PC. Quake 4 is a good game, some people would say that it's a great game but it not what we would 
 expect from ID and Raven Software. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 11, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  To some up Quake 4 its an old fashion blaster on the next gen machine Quake 4 is like having old 
 friend for dinner. Plays well on line is good but there isnt anything here new which is a shame 
 ID had a chance to really score big being launch title but I just cant get over the fact this 
 game would have sat well with gamers if it as for xbox 1 , the 360 was probably a gamble for ID 
 and I feel they have pulled it off but only just.
  
  ID quake4 is good but not next gen , there is nothing wrong with quake 4 (well there is loading 
 times between deaths in single player mode and the end boss was very easy to kill) but in Quake 
 5 please take it to the next level.
  
  Thanks 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyderfan1212
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I really feel like this game gets unfairly reviewed. This game is extremely good, but the framerate 
 problems get in the way. Your a Marine named Kane sent to the planet Stroggosh to try and finish 
 off the Strogg once and for all. Once you land you get right into the action blasting strogg right 
 and left. You will notice the Framerate is a little unstable, but not very noticable. The only 
 thing you will notice is, it doesn't run as smooth as say, PDZ0 or CoD2. Only after your get in 
 the game for a bit is when you have periods of time when the framerate drops. The game is Always 
 playable, and not that hard to look past the framerate.
  
  The weapons are well balanced and are all pretty powerful, and are used for certain occasions. 
 The game is divided into four parts. The beginning when you first land until you get to the large 
 battlecruiser which is basically your base. Than Act one which is from when you get off the Battle 
 Cruiser until you are taken by the Strogg and are turned into one.
  
  It shows you step by step what happens when a person gets stroggfied. The process is extremely 
 bloody and disturbing. Its all in First person, so you see that rusty saw cut off you legs up close. 
 Right when you are almost completely Strogg your squad finds you and releases you. The only difference 
 between being Strogg and human is that you have 25 more health. The action that picks up again, 
 until you get back to the battle Cruiser ending Act 2. Your last mission i pretty cool. You start 
 off by being launched out of the battle cruiser in a pod type thing nad you fly into a building, 
 its really exciting. After you kill the Makron and the Nexus the game is over. I would prolly say 
 that the game would take most people 12 hours to complete. There are few missions that you control 
 vehicles to break up the monotony of the action. You play as a hover tank which is pretty fun, 
 to something like a mech warrior. The vehicle sequences are easy, but there pretty fun. Overall 
 Quake 4's SP is solid if you can look past the framerate issues. The character designs are spetacular, 
 and the mouths are synced to perfection. One problem i did have is you can't melee, and the Strogg 
 aliens can. Other than thats is solid.
  
  MP: Multiplayer is Quake 4 is a arena based deathmatch really. First you have to find a game, wait 
 until there are enough players, than a countdown will start which takes 2 minutes unless the game 
 gets a full amount of players. Than you have to get through 2 loading screens. It takes way 2 much 
 time to get into a match. But if it doesn't lag the game is pretty darn fun. But some of the team 
 sorting is messed up. One time Quake 4 made the teams uneven, it was 4v2. Also the lag can be really 
 annoying. 
  
  If you look past Quake 4's shortcomings you will be deeply satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopster
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  good game at begining but than after the first level its just like o look an alien lets shoot like 
 all the others and thats all it is barely andy objectives its just a shoot at anything thats moving. 
 plus its easy to beat and easy to learn how to play you really only need the moving stick the aiming 
 stick and the fire trigger and thats it to play this game. but i love the video at the begging 
 it was great with all the bodies floating around and than you get knocked out like 3 times in a 
 row thats hilarious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendrix_986
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 9, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  To sum up Quake 4, take Quake 2-3, the doom3 engine, and tons of firepower.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Like any FPS it plays good, but something was missing controls wise. I liked all the 
 evil cyborg action. If you liked Doom 3, then this is up your alley! ........... SPOILER ALERT!!!! 
 (the part where you get all cut up and refitted made me flinch!) LOTS OF GUNS..... I liked the asortment 
 of 
  
  GRAPHICS: Average, looks good but left me wishing they tried harder. Not what your expecting on 
 your 360.
  
  SOUND: Good, Ok, -------- like Doom 3.
  
  VALUE: Good enough to buy, only because takes longer than you think to beat.
  
  ONLINE: Its 
 fast paced hard core action.
  
  MY CHANGES: Better graphics (little better) , Dead bodys.... they disappear! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 670179139
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I think this game was amazing some people said, they had graphical issues but mine I did not have 
 any graphical problems. The graphics our amazing gameplay is revolutionary and the sound is goog 
 overall the game is great especially for the Doom fans and for people that said they copied Doom 
 you are crazy they did not copy Doom. Yes it is made by the same company but the game is better 
 than Doom 3 which is amazing game. The graphics are unreal if they are glitches in the other versions 
 then so what if you get one that doesn't have glitches the graphics are really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 8, 2006 1:18 am PT
Review:  I resentally rented this game & I played through it in about 8-10 hours, I liked it, the frame 
 rate wasent solid, & every once in a while things will pop out of now where, but this game is still 
 definatly playable, just the mood of what was going on & what your doing keeps you interested, 
 it has alot of interesting weapons & a very decent story-line, but without a hi-def TV, if you 
 don't focus this game looks like a mess... There just so many thin line imprefections... It's online 
 is somewhat like Unreal Championship, it's really fast paced, but also hard to adapt too.... It's 
 an above average shooter with problems... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnheehaw
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I was wary of this game based on the 6.6 review in Gamespot frankly because I've returned several 
 of the games that were reviewed in the 8.8-9.0 range. I should have known better because I've really 
 enjoyed Id's games over the years and as another reviewer pointed out it may be a style issue (I 
 returned PDZ, hated Goldeneye, etc.) . I enjoyed the single player and now that I've finished it 
 on Lt. I'm going back and unlocking some of the other achievements I didn't get already (eg completing 
 a level using only a grenade launcher, silly stuff like that) . The multiplayer is fast, furious, 
 and focused... a multiplayer experience unlike any of the other games available for 360 I've found 
 (for now) . Kind of like Halo2 multi except faster (probably due to things like accelerator ramps 
 and more enclosed maps) . Lots of fun.
  
  The game looks great, the storyline is fine, I didn't find it too difficult or too easy. Unlike 
 some who have posted I didn't have an issue with the framerate - I did notice a few hiccups but 
 only when it was autosaving after an important event or before a boss battle (i. e. rarely) . When 
 I did notice it, it wasn't a problem. I was more peeved by load times but this might just be because 
 I'm a frequent saver and since my skillz could be better I'm also a frequent dier so I'm reloading 
 from a prev save a lot. I enjoyed the vehicle levels and would have liked to see more of them.
 
  
  Oh yeah, value-wise, it's a good deal. It came with Quake II which I enjoyed on PC and I am now 
 going through that again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  So, the most important thing I can say here at the start of this review is that if you are a hardcore 
 PC gamer and pride yourself on spending $2,000+ on parts to play this game on your computer just 
 to bash the console version, you can stop reading effective immediately. I consider myself an avid 
 Web browser and, everywhere I go, I see the same thing. In fact, it seems as though even Gamespot 
 reviewers have fallen victim to the "I wasted a couple grand to upgrade my computer just so I can 
 play this game with a little more shine to it" syndrome. This game has been bashed on nearly every 
 review site for frame rate dips, lack of polish, etc... you know, the things people like to point 
 out when they realize that something much cheaper actually runs as good as something they just 
 spent a ton of cash on. I am a non-partisan reviewer and own both a PC (actually three) and an 
 Xbox 360, as well as nearly every other console out there. I've seen this game in action on both 
 platforms, and yes, if you have an excellent PC it's going to run smoother. The question is: How 
 much $$$$ is framerate worth to you?
  
  For starters, the graphics in this version (from here on I'm only going to speak about the Xbox 
 360 version) are very good. Environments are crisp, character models are nice, and even the weapons 
 look detailed. Is it the sweetest looking game on 360? Not necessarily. BUT, it's no ugly duckling 
 either. I went into this game expecting a Doom-esque gameplay experience, and I got that but with 
 a TON more action... which is good, considering Doom 3 was one of my biggest let-downs last gen. 
 There's alot of gore in this game, and I feel ID and Raven did a good job to draw the gamer into 
 this Quake world and make them feel like a part of the action without going overboard on effects 
 like blood, etc. I did note that during the opening cutscene, the framerate jogs a bit (no more 
 than Perfect Dark Zero during in-game cutscenes) and there are points in the game where it does 
 slow considerably (always when there's a whole lot going on at once) , BUT I never felt it to be 
 a major hinderance. As before stated, feel free to throw some serious cash into your PC so that 
 you can run this one game without the framerate issues, but for me, it's simply not worth it.
 
  
  The sound is good, although most of what you'll be hearing is weapon's fire. And that is a good 
 thing too. This game will throw waves of enemies at you, but I never got tired of blasting away 
 with the shotgun. The one audio issue to mention is that when your allies speak to you in game, 
 you can almost never hear wtf they are saying. Fortunately, there's a box that appears in the top 
 left corner to tell you your objective anyway and hearing the words isn't necessary... but it does 
 get a tad annoying.
  
  Control is good. Sometimes you may feel like it's taking you all dang day to reload your weapon, 
 but movement is never really an issue. Late in the game, there are some parts that require jumping. 
 (FPS jumping... can we please just get rid of that all together like PDZ or at least not make your 
 survival count on you making a specific jump or series of jumps?) That's a little tricky but after 
 a few tries, you get by and move on. 
  
  Entertainment.... well, truth is, once you beat it, you're probably done with it. Unless you love 
 some seriously fast-paced multiplayer that plays as if everyone's stuck on fast forward. I'm a 
 jaded FPS vet, but the tempo is just a little too over the top for me. I haven't played through 
 single player since I beat it, and I feel the need to mention that the final boss of this game 
 is incredibly anti-climatic. I won't ruin anything, but let's just say... you'll get it somewhere 
 between one and three tries.
  
  All in all, Quake 4 is a good game to play through at least once to see the excellent story unfold. 
 I wasn't completely happy with everything they did (you become a Strogg [no spoiler... everyone 
 knows it] ) , but it was a fun time while it lasted. And unless you've got money to burn, checking 
 it out on 360 will be your only option for now. I recommend a rental for sure and if you like it, 
 a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckitella
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 6, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to write a long-winded review, but I think if you're a Quake / DOOM fan, then you 
 have to get this one. Maybe the graphics aren't as good as the PC version, but they still blow 
 me away (and like most people who bought a 360, we don't really plan on upgrading our computers, 
 or can afford to for that matter) .
  
  I'm a Q3 fanatic, so having a lot of the same weapons, and even some maps, brings back great memories. 
 The reviewer says PDZ is a lot better, and perhaps it is, but from what I've played of both of 
 these, I still enjoy the look and feel to iD games a lot more. It's a little more dark I suppose. 
 
  
  So AT LEAST try the demo since you can get it right from the marketplace; don't let the editor's 
 review turn you off so much that you won't even try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so despite some bad reviews, I decided to give this game a try. So you play as a human named 
 Kane who is fighting the strogg, which is some alien race that uses humans and blends them with 
 robots... cyborgs. The first thing you'll notice is that the this game has huge frame rate issues. 
 I mean you'll be playing and you will get into a fire fight and the frame rate will hit about 8-12 
 fps. Its really bad. This really takes away from the games fairly nice graphics. The game looks 
 great in my opinion, but the frame rate issues kill it. The game plays pretty much like a standard 
 first person shooter, so pretty much the standard controls. It doesn't handle bad, but its not 
 perfect. The sound in the game is pretty standard as well. The environments in the game are that 
 like Dooms, which are high tech facilities and such. The game also have a fairly decent amount 
 of weapons. The problems with these weapons are that only a hand full of them are actually usable 
 and are worth blasting your enemies with. The others are really just lame and don't work very well. 
 The voice acting in the game was fairly standard as well, pretty much what you'd expect voice acting 
 to be. There are some really cool bits of the game that immerses you into your character, such 
 as the strogg transformation or the landing sequence. These are really cool but they are not used 
 very often. In fact I think only twice. The game has some formidable foes as well, which have fairly 
 good AI. They don't do anything thats flat out stupid. The big problem with the game is that it 
 really just gets repetitive. Its the same old strogg killing, level in and level out. There are 
 some vehicle sequences, but they are few and far, as well as not that fun. The end of the game 
 gets kind of tough and aggravating. Its really boils down to what I felt with Doom. As I played 
 on, I thought "is this game ever going to end?" Thats not the feeling you really want to have when 
 going into the final stretch of the game. You'll find yourself suffering through until the end 
 of the game, just to be disappointed about the average story and bad ending. The multiplayer is 
 basically the same as all other Quake games. I didn't get around to it much because I was eager 
 to stop playing once I beat the single player. So in all, Quake 4 is just another average FPS in 
 a crowded genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 930ff
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm tired of people saying Quake IV is the worst title for the Xbox 360 thus far. I think its 
 a good title, not a great title, but a good one. The single player is kind of lame. Why developers 
 told us we would be Strogg is beyond me. The weapons aren't all that bad, it has some of the classic 
 weapons from Quake I & II. And hey, it comes with Quake II which is juiced up to run at 60 FPS. 
 I thought that was a good idea and is continuing to be a good trend in other games as well. The 
 multiplayer is just like Quake III: fast and fun. If your a person who cares about the Xbox achievements, 
 some of them seem to be impossible hard to get. Overall, the game is as good as it could get. Much 
 like Perfect Dark Zero, the multiplayer really saves the game. Xbox 360 was really lucky to get 
 this game because the truth is, Quake IV is just an Xbox title with an Xbox 360 label on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattw1555
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 10:28 pm PT
Review:  I've never played a game in the Quake series until now. I wish I had started sooner because this 
 game is awesome. I LOVE the muliplayer more than anything. It's just an all out amazing game. The 
 single player campaign is both challenging and fun. It does get a little challenging in some part 
 of the game, but everytime you beat those challenges you feel good about what you have accomplished. 
 And wo ever saw that you had to become strogg to defeat strogg. I didn't see it coming but like 
 I said earlier I haven't played Quake before. If you have a 360 Quake 4 is definitly a must have 
 for your new system. YEAH!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpttemplar
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Although Quake 4 is the pretiest next-gen game it sure is one of the funnest. Quake 4 is an amazing 
 game, and i loved every bit of its campaign and multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay: The game reminded me of a kinda Timesplitters mixed with DOOM3 game. It was very good. 
 The AI was smart, and the campaign and weapon arsenal were quite entertaining
  
  Graphics: Its graphics are pretty comperable to that of DOOM3, just a bit sharper and polished 
 around the edges.
  
  Sound: I'm sure this game would sound amazing hooked up to some 5.1 surround sound, but so would 
 every game right?
  
  Value: It's worth buying i think, with a fun campaign and amazing multiplayer, it sure is a keeper
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: Very very fun online. I haven't tried it using a system link yet, but I'm sure thats 
 great too. The multiplayer is very similar to that of unreal tournament, just with a lot cooler 
 weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackThompsonAmI
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  I rented this game thinking that it may not be very good because of the reviews, but I figured 
 that I might as well check it out. 
  
  There are a lot of people complaining about the framerate, but let me tell you unless your obsessed 
 about framerate and live to seek out problems with it, you won't notice it. It only slowed down 
 a few times for me when there was a lot of explosions going on, However it was so slight it couldn't 
 possibly cause you to make a mistake.
  
  Overall this game was a slightly above average FPS. The graphics are excellent. Not as next gen 
 as I thought they would be, but then again none of the 360 games were. Still I doubt the xbox would 
 be able to run games like this. Gameplay is hectic at time and the games somewhat creepy atmosphere 
 will really keep you on the edge of your seat. The weapons are really cool too.
  
  Rent or Buy:
  For me this game is definitly a must own 360 game. However if you are really picky 
 about framerate being as perfect as possible then rent it, but definitly give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0L070V
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I put the disc in smiling, but hurled it aside disappointed.
  
  I'll keep this brief:
  
  The first thing that You notice when you pop in Quake 4 is the lackluster visuals. It is nothing 
 the Xbox couldn't pump out. The Level design leaves something to be desired. And the story doesn't 
 keep your attention. The Online is there but who cares. The AI is alright nothing that you feel 
 threatened by. The sound quality is on par with most '60 titles. I do not see much replay value 
 coming from this mess. They might as well just have ported DOOM. Overall this game was a big letdown.
 
  
  Bottom Line: Go play DOOM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa178
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:34 am PT
Review:  I don't know why they gave this game such a low score but it dosen't deserve that score. This game 
 is very good, it deserves a really high score. The guns are verry cool and it has some good features 
 on them. I really enjoy playing this game. I really like playing with the character because he 
 looks very cool on that outfit, and it looks perfect on him. The gameplay of this game is good 
 and enjoyable. But it missed some stuff but anyways it is still a good game. The graphics of this 
 game are tremendous, They look so awesome. The game missed somethings but it dosen't care that 
 much because it is still a good game. So is really hard to describe this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360warrior
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 27, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  Basically the deck title explains it all, long out blown story with a boring plot. On-line that 
 plays like Unreal Championship, and pc type graphics. I must admit when i first played this game 
 i thought it was great, but after about 10 hours i just lost intrest. Although it is still a good 
 game i find it last generation. The achievements are spread through story mode and multiplayer, 
 ranging through about anything you can think of. If you want the most blandest shooter for the 360 
 yet then pick this one up, if you have better things to do then i suggest a rent first. The game 
 also comes with an extra disc, Quake 2, which also comes with 9 achievements to unlock but without 
 any points for your gamerscore. I give this a 7/10 just for the pure fact this is one of my favorite 
 types of games.
  Gamertag   PHINS FAN 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaioshen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Take the campaign from Quake 2, mix it with the multiplayer from Quake 3 and some awesome graphics 
 and boom, you got Quake 4. In Quake 4 you play as Matthew Kane, a marine apart of the Rhino Squad. 
 After the assassination of the Makron (Quake 2) , you and your team are sent to Stroggos, the Strogg 
 home planet to get rid of the Strogg once in for all. No pressure, of course.
  
  The story of Quake 4 I actually find to be quite good. After the assassination of the Makron in 
 Quake 2, why not use the time to get rid of the rest of the Strogg. Along the way of course you 
 find out that it's not all that easy, and you'll get help from many of your fellow marines, which 
 will be quite good as you will find out.
  
  Gameplay was good also, except for the framerate issues, I love the gameplay. The AI is also not 
 the smartest i've faced either, but it not the worst either. The controls were very good and useful, 
 I found the shoulder buttons to be awesome for switching between weapons.
  
  The graphics were a definite plus, although some area's were kinda cheap, but that's just my opinion. 
 Most launch games are rushed and because of this they tend not to look their best, but I think 
 Raven and id did a good job of not doing this.
  
  I didn't think the sound was as great as everything else though, I mean, it was good, but it wasn't 
 great. I dunno, I guess that's just my opinion. While Quake 4 does have it's problems (what game 
 doesn't) , it's still a great game that's worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Can you say split screen? I was brought to tears when I found out that you couldn't do split screen 
 on Quake 4. The single player was so fun and I was pumped to get the multiplayer going when I noticed 
 there was only system link and xbox live. I was crushed. The graphics are just crazy good and the 
 single player was very fun and challenging but I wanted to frag my friends. What a letdown! This 
 game would have been the bomb! Who hasn't played Quake 3 Arena in all its goodness? That was my 
 favorite multiplayer game for years! I still love it! This game was so close to being lights out! 
 ::Sob:: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 could be a lot better with a few more coats of polish.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Gets really intense in parts, really cool weapons
  Bad: Vehicle sequences suck
  
  Graphics
 
  Good: Gun, enemy, ally models
  Bad: Framerate gets almost unplayable in some parts ,and is very unsteady
  
  Sound
  Good: 
 Decent sound FX, voice acting, nothing special though
  Bad: Sound crackles at times and isn't very good to begin with.
  
  Value
  Since this game 
 comes with Quake 2 if you beat Quake 4 you still have something to play. Multiplayer should keep 
 you occupied if you try to get the gamerpoints to be found there.
  
  Overall
  If your a fan of Quake games you will probably be dissapointed, but if you have a PC that can play 
 this game but it. Otherwise there are better shooters for the 360 that Quake 4 can't match up to. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiddecibel1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a great game. The single player experience was great, and a little scary (not nearly 
 like Doom 3 though) . The game is action packed and the story actually kept me involved. Also, i 
 loved the NPC interaction. 
  My only beef with the Single player is that there are 3 vehicles in the game, and you only use 
 each one once, for one full level each. I think it would have been a better game without them, 
 they seem like they were forced in there. 
  The multiplayer is great as well, it plays just like Quake 3 Arena, so it is almost like two different 
 games. Again, no vehicles in the multiplayer though. 
  Like Gamespot says, it does have its graphical glitches, but it is not nearly as troublesome as 
 they make it sound. It also looks as good as the best of them on 360. There is one small level 
 later in the game where it gets real choppy and thats the only time the slowdown Gamespot spoke 
 of bothered me at all.
  Anyway, If you're a Quake fan, definitely buy this game, I know I was hesitant at first after reading 
 the Gamespot review, but I'm glad I bought it for sure. If your not a Quake fan, It is absolutely 
 worth a rent.
  
  P. S. Its also a neat bonus to get Quake 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddwhitt
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  I almost didn't buy this game because of all the bad reviews, but because of my love for the quake 
 series i had to get it, and boy am i glad i did. I love it. It is by far the best launch game for 
 the xbox 360 and is one of the best multiplayer games ever! If you like the quake series even a 
 little bit i believe it is worth having. If you don't have the pc version then it is a must have 
 for any first person shooter fan. Also xbox live is awesome for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hlciceman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Activision seemed to want to rush there 360 games then not back them up with support. quake 4 is 
 a good game even better multiplayer. Now its no halo 2 or anything like that. But its really good 
 game over all. Even though people seem it fun to cheat to get higher on the leader board. The community 
 is small but strong. The online play is amazing as long as you make games with friends. Random 
 pick up games lead to 6 v2 and if its a ranked game you cant switch. Activision wont patch there 
 games either so you might want to stray from activision games for a bit. But its good single player 
 and great multyplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 21, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was a great FPS, with a lot of extras. I have always enjoyed the Quake series 
 as well as the Doom series. In Quake you have a full arsenal of weapons, ranging from a nice shotgun 
 to rocket launchers and crazy future weapons like the Dark Matter gun... The dark matter gun is 
 pretty sweet, and pretty much kills all that is in its way. The storyline could use a little work, 
 but they make up for that by having not only good weapons, but also allowing you to get into diffferent 
 vehicles... I particularly enjoyed the difficulty of this game, which I was only playing on the 
 Corporal level and had some issues with some of the later levels. Overall I think this game is 
 great and look forward to Quak 5, and yes they did lead into that at the end of 4...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Well I rented this game from my friend today. And I have to say i thought it was going to blow. 
 Then i turned it on and right away i was in action. And I love action games. So yeah. The grapchis, 
 sounds, and gameplay are great! Although, there are frame rate issues, i'm sure those can be worked 
 out in the near future. I recommend picking this game up, not only for the single player, but for 
 the Multi-Player as well. The Multi-Player is very fast paced, and fast paced games are great. 
 So yeah. I give this an 9/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincompost
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok yes it was a short easy game that din't exactly live up to the xbox360 itself, but for a Doom3 
 remake I think it was very good. Quake wins hands down compared to doom 3 just because of the differences 
 in tactics, weapons, and of course better graphics. A big hook to me though, was the fact that 
 you could now control vehicles. However Quake4 did not hold my attention for as long as I had hoped, 
 but for one of the first xbox 360 games I think that ID did a good job... now they have a precedent 
 to learn from and correct. Its not as good as Halo or Halo 2, but it is better than most first 
 person shooters such as Perfect Dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomKid
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  Doom 3 is a Doom 3 may had more Blood and Gore even scary, but Quake 4 is a First-Person Shooter 
 war game. Doom 3 you go fight solo with the enemy demons, Quake 4 is a team work at war as your 
 a stroog. graphecs are the same, the weapons and the enemies but the different thing is the Haneble 
 is even more that Doom 3 didnt have. O. K. I dont know what Quake 2 is about or if Quake 4 is 
 the sequal of Quake 2. I can get the other Quake video-games and play Quake 2 later if I have the 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I loved quake 4 when i played it on the computer, so i had pretty good hopes for the Xbox 360 version. 
 I bought this game not to long after i bought my 360 and there are a few reasons why i traded it 
 in not to long after that. The graphics are very good, but not nearly as good as i hoped, even 
 though the graphics are the high point of the game. The game has very repetitive looking environments 
 at some times and it really pissed me off. Like any First Person Shooter for the xbox or xbox 360 
 it controls very well. Not worth 60 bucks unless you are dying to play a First Person Shooter on 
 your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolution12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Quake has been around for a while and it showing. For one the frame rate is pretty bad. Its like 
 never steady. The graphics arent as sharp as the pc version but there still pretty good. Some of 
 the textures are a little nasty close up though. The gameplay is ok. It kind of has a old school 
 kinda feel to it. The weapons are pretty cool though, a lot of them have apeared in previous quake 
 games but they all sound great. Overall this game is ok, if youve stuck with the quake series for 
 a while you may wanto purchace but for everyone else should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parched_son
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Ok, when I first got the game I thought, "oh crap I've just purchased Doom 3 again". As I've played 
 the game though, I've found the story line, though with parallels, unique from Doom 3. The biggest 
 difference I've noticed is the lack of occultic type images and creatures that Doom is known for. 
 Beyond the surface though, is a relatively interesting game that gets you involved with your character's 
 adventure. (that's what it's all about, right?) 
  Again, you can tell it's driven by the Doom 3 engine, but the game is worth a gander. If you are 
 tight on money, or have been trying to decide between this game and another, or just like the old 
 Doom 3 game, then you should hold off. The game is fun and has a good storyline, but it's been 
 done before. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siylence
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Unlike Doom 3 where I had hopes the game would get better, this one made me say right off the bat 
 "Doom 3 is scrap gaming compared to this" This game sounds and feels powerful. Doom 3 had no power 
 or feeling behind the weapons or bad guys. Quake 4 was bam, in your face, fast content. I'll detail 
 this a little more.
  The story line is so much better. Doom didn't really have a story after the cinematics of hell 
 taking power over mars were through. It was just "Kill the demons" and I'm sitting there crunched 
 over saying, "And this is supposed to be a spectacular game?" Quake 4 keeps it going. You have 
 people in a squad with you a lot of the time, and they're living. Interact and have them heal you, 
 give you armor, and help fight off strogg. They also keep the dialog, your sargent will tell them 
 when things are going on. Also he'll inform you about new changes to the story if you're not interacting 
 wit him face to face. 
  The variety. This is pretty much where Doom 3 lacked it all. Neverending, steel-encrested corridors. 
 Except for the two or three levels of hell. Wow, how interesting. This game will have it's corridors, 
 but even they have a variety. Like the power-plant is a big open indoor environment, where as the 
 hospital labs may be crunched in giving you that tense feeling like in Doom 3. Though, outside 
 of it's corridors they have, well, outside. That's right, land you can fight war on. You can fight 
 outside and actually breathe! That means, it's almost Halo for you. 
  The weapons and vehicles feel like weapons and vehicles. Face it, Doom 3's weapons had the weakest 
 feelings. The pistol looked like something from the 1800's and gave the same feeling with the sounds 
 that came out. The shotgun sounded like a bunch of pennies being shaken. Machine gun had the worst 
 appearance and little power. Plasma gun sounded just like a an tie-fighters cannon from one of 
 my games.... that I had on my Commodor 64. Quake 4's sounded powerful, they were powerful, and 
 had a nice variety. I haven't even used all the guns in Quake 4. I haven't beaten it yet. I'm still 
 about half way through the second act. I still can't wait to get my hands on the next guns. Where 
 as doom three was like, when do I get to use my PDA as a weapon? Nevermind, I have a flash light. 
 Oh... AND FIST! Quake 4's nail gun is my favorite so far. It packs a punch and I can feel that 
 when I take on my enemies. I think this game is HIGHLY under-rated. I think it's a definate buy 
 or atleast a rent if your skeptical.
  I know this will be in my all-time favorites though. Not a doubt in my mind. I think ID should 
 make a new Wolfenstein... or dare they... a new Heretic/Hexen? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a very serious breath of fresh air. Up until now we have had all these la-dee-da FPS 
 games for the 360. Well with this addition we have a serious hardcore FPS that is actually pretty 
 surprising at times. The graphics are great and each AI has it's own individual movements. Gameplay 
 is great with the story line being as entertaining as anything out there today. Online play is 
 just another thing that will keep you captivated for hours, It's a great game in my opinion. I 
 would reccomend that if you enjoy FPS games you should go pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piemaster92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  I thought this game was like Halo 2 because of the battle system. Instead of covenant, there is 
 strogg. Instead of master chief, there is matt kane. in stead of the magnum and smg you got the 
 blaster and machine gun. I thought the enemies were the same also because there are different types 
 of strogg, like there are different types of covenant. I loved halo 2 and i love this game as well. 
 The levels are quite bloody but if you like that then its heaven. The graphics are great and the 
 sound is so good. The people sound perfect and the lips match great with the words. It is suspenceful 
 and they have many vehicles, which you can use to destroy everything in sight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Time and time again I state that I am not fond of FPS games. Yet on most platforms it seems that 
 those are the games that most devolpers want to give us. Anyhow, on with the review on yet another 
 X360 FPS
  
  Graphics/Sound - Actually not as good as most of the other X360 games, and somehow more gory than 
 condemned. Sounds were realistic, high quality. voice acting seemed decent, when nyou could here 
 it. Only problem was the background noise and gun fire tended to drowned it out.
  
  Gameplay - It seemed pretty responsive, that or the auto aim that most console games had was more 
 helpful than most.
  
  Difficulty - Well, I made it through the first couple of levels without cheats, after that though... I 
 just don't have the patience to die repeatedly in the same area.... codes are easy to find.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 10, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game for my new xbox 360. I had already had an alienware PC. But figured i needed 
 more games for my 360. The 360's version has frame rates that drop well under 30 frames when theres:
 
  1-) More than one enemy on the screen.
  2-) When you Enter a new room
  3-) enter a vehicle
  So as you can see the frame rate is a distraction and a huge problem. This game has some of the 
 best, action packed combat you'll almost ever see. I say you just buy a graphics card for your 
 PC, and get it on that. I'd recomend the nvidia 7800 GT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knoname
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  
  Each of it's gun's are completly different and their are many to choose from, plus most weapons 
 are upgradeable atleast once so don't complain about the weapons, the guns also sound teriffic 
 except for maybe the machine gun that sounds feable rather than hard, loud, explosive sounds it 
 deserves.
  All the enemies in this game are unique equiped with different weapons and skills, and they are 
 most certainly very satisfing to balst, gun, nail, rail, explode, electrify and suck! 
  The environments are great in this game despite lacking outdoor environments, you will find lots 
 of nifty little treats as you go through the game so don't think it'l get boring. 
  Vehicles are pretty kul in this, the walkers sweet but the hover tank seems a 'lil' poor. 
  The 
 game as very few poor frame rates throughout but you don't really pay attention to them. The only 
 down side to this game is that sometimes areas are a little to dark so that you have to settle 
 with the machine gun because it has a flashlight when realy you just want to use all these other 
 fantastic weapons, another minor problem you will notice is that when the characters are speaking 
 there mouth movment dosn't quite match the vocals but does any one realy care? No they don' they 
 just wanna use kick ass weapons against kick ass enemies in a kick ass environment and that's what 
 Quake 4 has.
  I have only been playing the game on hard and its a bit easy realy so i just hope that the harder 
 difficulty level you unlock is actually hard. I havn't played online yet but i know that it will 
 be kick ass, i haven't realy been on the game long either but i know for sure i won't get bored 
 of it.
  Go and buy Quake 4 now it is entirly worth it! It is by far my favourite game by far, it sounds 
 great and looks great, oh and by the way, the strogification part increase your characters health 
 and armor capacity and gives you a 'lil 'extra speed aswell.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjahadi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  I read many reviews of this game, and sat on the fence for a while before buying. I finally gave 
 into curiosity and bought the game, and I can honestly say I'm glad I did. I think whether you 
 like the game or not is all about expectations. As I read other reviews on the web, I couldnt 
 tell if some of the complaints were being overly critical, as sometimes reviews can be. Having 
 completed the game, I would say that if you are the type that let the minor blemishes of a game 
 ruin the experience, then I would say that this game is not for you. Does it have some frame rate 
 slow down, sure... But let me tell you, the reviews on the web are blowing it way out of proportion. 
 The slow down is noticeable from time to time but to say that the game is unplayable is an absolutely 
 ridiculous statement! If you've played Half-Life 2, then the slow down is not too much different 
 than that game, which was a great game on Xbox by the way. 
  
  Graphically the game is nice... does it look better on the PC? Well, sure, if you have a high end 
 machine anyway. Are there better looking games available right now for the 360?, Sure, but the 
 graphics are nice to look at (in HD anyway) . I will say that there are a lot of dark areas and 
 sometimes you wish you could see more detail without using your flash light all the time, but the 
 fact that it is dark adds to the effect and immerses you more in the game in my opinion. 
  
  The game play is somewhat predictable and nothing we haven't all seen before. But, is that 
 a bad thing? Not in my opinion. A lot of the reviewers out there have a tendency to bash a game 
 if its not a genre defining experience or bring something new to the table. Well, this game is 
 not one of those games and I would say that if you fall into the category of player that only likes 
 to experience new things in the games you play or are expecting some earth shattering experience 
 out of every game you play, then this game is not for you. However, if you enjoyed Doom3 on the 
 Xbox, then you should enjoy this game. The story is ok, starts off kind of slow but it is entertaining. 
 I was impressed with the variety of enemy units that you encounter along the way, and the variety 
 of weapons is great! The vehicle levels seemed tacked on and over simplistic... the game could 
 have done without them actually. The game is sometimes frustrating because the checkpoint saves 
 are not always where they should be, so if (and when) you die, you'll sometimes have to repeat 
 parts of a level. This can be very frustrating when you die a lot in a particular area. However, 
 the game does allow you to save at any point in the game. The bad thing is, in the later levels 
 as the difficulty ramps higher, you might find yourself saving a lot on your own, which does slow 
 the pace of the game. I played the game on the hard difficulty and found it to be challenging, 
 although without the in-game save feature I probably would have gotten way to frustrated repeating 
 levels over and over. 
  
  Multiplayer is a lot of fun, however there are some issues. First, connecting to a game takes a 
 while, and then when you finally do connect, you have to wait another two minutes for the game 
 to begin. Its not like Halo where you can hop in and out of games almost instantly, but if you 
 have a lobby full of friends, it goes by faster as everyone is talking to each other. Also, I have 
 encountered some Xbox Live errors that would prevent me from connecting to games from time to time. 
 I'm not sure if its the game or Xbox live, because honestly I've experienced similar errors in 
 other games, like Call of Duty 2 and Perfect Dark Zero. Im hoping a patch is forthcoming to fix 
 some of these issues. BUT, when you get into a game, its fast, furious, and a lot of fun, albeit 
 somewhat simplistic in game play. There are not a whole lot of game modes or maps to choose from, 
 but who knows, maybe there will be a download in the future. The pace of the multiplayer game and 
 the maps used are very different than that of the single player one, and it almost feels like two 
 different games entirely. In multiplayer games, it feels like everyone is running 100MPH and the 
 maps are more arena like, than the dark hallways of the single player campaign. Personally, I 
 would have preferred it if the multiplayer used the same maps and had the same pace as the single 
 player campaign, because I think deathmatch in those dark gloomy places would have been fun. But 
 again, the multiplayer is fun even though I would have done it a little differently. However, there 
 is nothing new here... it is the same multiplayer game as previous Quake and Doom games, so again 
 if you are only looking for something new, then you will not enjoy this game as much.
  
  All in all, I had fun with this game. I definitely recommend it for any FPS fan, unless you want 
 a totally new experience or small bugs like frame rate slow down prevents you from enjoying an 
 otherwise fun game. If you've played the PC version, there isn't a lot for you here, unless you 
 enjoy playing on the couch in front of your big HD screen w/ the sound turned up, as I do. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  quake 4 is the latest installment in the quake realm. its action packed with plenty of shoot em 
 up scenes and weapons. you have a wide array of vehicles also to blow stuff to hell with. the story 
 is a tippical sci fi scenario though so theres no new news in the plot. the only thing that i think 
 is hurting in this game is the multi player. it sucks. theres no fun in it. its choppy, takes forever 
 to get a game going and the matches end up lagging or only being 5 frags. it lame plain and simple. 
 the game overall i would say is an ok first person shooter and anyone who is a first person fanatic 
 should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volcom12
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  i can say i liked it more then doom. but still this game i didnt really like. the graphics were 
 good but could of been way better. the guns were pretty kool and the online play is ok i just hate 
 how fast your guy runs. and yea that is pretty mych it the levels are pretty long and the boss's 
 are fun  f dsffd f h h jh h h h hh h h h h hh h 
 h h h h h hh h h h hh h h h h h h h h h hh h hh h h h h h hh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSpartin117
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few game reviews that i disagree with Game Spot. I think this game is great 
 graphically and has great game play. If you like fast pace shooters this is a game you will like. 
 And if you liked the multi player of the last Quake games this is really good its a little boring 
 for me at times but every game gets boring at some point. The games storyline is pretty strait 
 forward kill simple as that kill the strog but it has a cool twist you also become a strog witch 
 is one of the goriest scenes I have ever seen. But it was awesome and it's all in first person. 
 Now Im not saying this game doesnt have problems the frame rate gets a little bad at times and 
 the voices are hard to hear at times. But overall this is a good game I will have to recommend 
 this game for a buy or a least a rent if you dont have the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusbish
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  I've been reading tons & tons of crap reviews for Quake 4, but I'm an FPS addict, and just had 
 to try it for myself. and honestly, I don't see what the big deal is. First and foremost, the thing 
 that stands out most to me anyway are the graphics. Now they're not bad, just not 360 quality. 
 If Q4 had released on the original Xbox, of PS2 the graphics would be better than average, just 
 not quit next gen. The other problem I kept reading about was the frame rate. I personally didn't 
 have any problems with this at all, mind you I've only played through the single player campaign, 
 with no online play at all. Maybe this is an issue with online players. The sound and playability 
 were all great, a pretty tense experiance all together. The only other problem I had was saving 
 progress. The game would tell me it was saving at certain points of the game, I'd die then try 
 to reload that last save, and I'd have to start back from where I was like an hour ago. I just 
 started to save ocassionally on my own, and that seemed to work out okay. Anyway this is a descent 
 game if you give it a little slack, I enjoyed it knowing what I knew going in. Now if I hadn't 
 read any reviews before renting I probably would've been a little more upset, but over all the 
 game is definately in my opinion at least worth a rental 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Even though the 360 version has some slowdowns that the pc version doesnt , it is still the same 
 story for the same great game .
  
  Quake IV is the best in the series , including deadlier arsenals of weapons and an even deadlier 
 amount of enemies , all different and beautifully detailed ,
  
  Quake IV uses the Doom 3 graphics engine , but this game ain't no jump around the corner scare 
 game , this is more action than anything , you'll get pumped with adrenaline as you walk through 
 stroggos , and the game will take a sudden spin , so marvelously done that i can't believe you 
 are sitting there reading this review instead of playing it or trying a demo.
  
  I think its wrong to rate Quake for its multiplayer when the single player campaign its the one 
 thing that should keep us all playing this . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CuddlesTheBunny
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the other Quakes before but since its #4, it has to be popular. I wasn't 
 really impressed with the game overall, escpecially after playing Call of Duty or PGR3. The framerate 
 issue was one big turn off. Over time you get over it, but if it wasnt there the game would have 
 been so much better. The online is really a pain trying to find someone to play with. Don't take 
 me wrong its actually pretty fun once you get going, but lack of preparation to port this to the 
 360 is its downfall. Overall, its an OK game with a gory single player, and a multiplayer that 
 could have been so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Though visually and aurally stunning, Quake 4 is plagued by some rather annoying performance issues 
 that get in the way of the game's overall impact. Apparently these programming flaws were also 
 present in the PC version, but it is just a shame Raven and id Software didnt remove them for 
 the Xbox 360 version. Still, the gameplay is rock solid, and as previously mentioned, the sounds 
 in the game and overall Dolby Digital 5.1 performance is often breathtaking. 
  
  Quake 4 also makes for a great online experience. It's modes and style of play isnt quite as good 
 as Quake III Arena was back in the day, but there are still plenty of options and maps for you 
 to frag your enemies on. Quake 2 comes generously Bundled with the package too - a nice addition 
 that is also tied right into the Xbox 360 Achievements and multiplayer experience.
  
  Overall Score:
  
  8.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StoicLeopard
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  This is your average FPS. I dont mean that in a bad way, every few years ID comes out and defines 
 what an FPS is but they are not neccesarily the best gameplay wise. The game has great graphics, 
 which to be truly appreciated needs HDTV. But the game play was soso. Your part of this squad but 
 whom you never work with. See this is where Quake 4 falters, its AI. It is a heavily scripted game 
 which can be fun but not to this point where it just feels like its just you running around a course. 
 There is some back and forth but by and large its just you tackling enemies who rush you (there 
 are times where the enemies appears to do something smart but it is just a scripted sequence) . 
 However the few moments where you do have a squad and they really shine in action and really should 
 have played a larger part of the game. All in all, a good game but not a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmassie21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I dont understand why every says this game is bad, because it is not! The framerate issues are 
 barely noticable and the graphics are really good. If you want to play a game with horrible graphics 
 play Kameo or Gun. That's right I said it, KAMEO'S GRAPHICS SUCK! But moving on, the gameplay is 
 fun, and offers just the right amount of difficulty. 
  It's not for kids, I can tell you that. Its rated M for a reason. They use a lot of "bad words" 
 such as ass, **** and **** And the blood, dont get me going! The levels arent well thought of, 
 mostly just futuristic alien-like buildings, or a mars-like outdoor area that you dont see too 
 much of. The creatures are really cool, the "Stroggs" as they are called. 
  This game is a definite pick-up for any alien first-person shooter fan. For all you others, if 
 you ask me I think you should buy it to. For all you kids, ask mommy first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RVCA823
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  You play the game as Corporal Matthew Kane, trying to rid an alien race in a war for humanity. 
 Quake 4 is a phenomenal game, which looks outstanding on Microsoft's white box. 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic, it can get hard at times (if your playing on the Corporal difficulty) 
 but overall, it's very addicting. It's not comparible to Doom 3, which is at a much slower pace. 
 Doom 3 brings about 2 enemies at a time, while Quake 4 brings more than 5. 
  
  
  The graphics are great, I loved them, there are some framerate problems here and there, but they 
 most definately don't ruin your experience.
  
  The sound is pretty good, nothing to brag about, but nonetheless, its decent. 
  
  Quake 2 is 
 included, so it's definetly worth $60. I reccomend this game to anyone, it is one of the best 360 
 launch titles bar none. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imsofly406
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:23 pm PT
Review:  All in all the single player rocked but the multiplayer was way too fast paced its hard to kill 
 enemys. Also to top that off you cant create custom games another lame thing call of duty 2 has. 
 The graphics are not all that. Just a waste of a game. The pc version was alot better I actually 
 enjoyed that some, but with the technology these days the can do better. This game has a killer 
 story and some tight weapons but im just not feeling it. I wouldn't recommend this game. Im done 
 with my review but I need at least a 100 character to so im still typing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagabond_gamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Come with me, on a nice getaway to Mars. Where the women are half dead and the perfered drink is 
 Blood. Who's blood you may ask? Yours, but of course. This game serves you your ass on a silver ( 
 blood soaked) platter. First you begin your quest to defeat the STROGG on a spaceship to hell. 
 I f you are unfamiliar with the "Strogg", They are a race of Mechanicalized humanoid nightmares 
 who came to earth to obliterate are poor fragile human race.
  
  Let's start off with the graphics. Oh boy....... the blood soaked bodies that you will encounter 
 made me almost wanna puke. They freakin kill everone man. The strogg have to go down as one of 
 the most UGLY son' **** there ever was........ too bad they look like current gen monkey crap. 
 
  
  The action is great though, with all the fire fights they jam packed into the game. Your squad 
 mates for half the game rock. They definatley help when it comes to dealing out the pain. I'm getting 
 tired so buy this game not because of the graphics but for the unparalled fun and pants crapping 
 fun it brings to your xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raylen12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Underappreciated sums Quake 4 up. On nearly every review site and show Ive seen, the same issue 
 came up  lag. But is this just peer pressure? Or jumping the bandwagon? Or are these sources really 
 telling the truth about Quake 4 on the Xbox 360?
  
  I own every FPS shooter for the Xbox 360 available within a week of launch. Call of Duty 2, Perfect 
 Dark Zero, Condemned, and Quake 4  Ive played them all. But the one that truly stood out was 
 Quake 4. Underrated graphics  especially the shadows; in one level, you must traverse the sewers 
 of an enemy compound to escape their grasp. You will often see the shadows of botched transfers 
  zombie-like creatures  as they stalk the narrow tunnels ahead, and this really instills a sense 
 of realism. The lag is exaggerated - the only place where the lag affected gameplay was in one 
 vehicle shootout where you rode a tram, with dozens other trams and flying bomber ships all trying 
 to take you out. Other than that, the lag is very minor, and if you dont have a $3,000 Alienware 
 computer like Gamespot, then there will definitely be less lag than on the computer version.
  
  The story is standard, but works much better than recent story failures such as Perfect Dark 
 Zero and Halo 2. You are Matthew Kane, a veteran space marine, assigned to an elite assault team 
  Rhino squad. After the events of Quake 2, where a lone marine destroyed something-or-other, you 
 and your squad go on full offense against the alien Strogg. It begins as a huge fleet of giant 
 starships appears outside of the enemy planet, Stroggos. You and Rhino squad take a dropship down 
 to the planet, but (of course) the vessel is shot down and goes plummeting to the surface. You 
 wake up, and begin your mission.
  
  The game lasts about 13+ hours  lengthier than many recent first-person shooters. It spans three 
 acts, each with three or four levels. Every two or three levels, you face a boss  these range 
 in difficulty, but arent very hard until the final one.
  
  The audio is amazing on the game, except for one flaw  the communicator Kane wears is very loud, 
 and all the other people are kind of quiet. This makes it difficult, sometimes, to hear your allies 
 or squadmates. Other than that, everything sounds great.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer is very fast-paced  the speed is increased, creating mass chaos on the 
 battlefield. I, myself, have played little of the multiplayer aspect, but the speed stood out.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirk1264
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok if anyone loved the past Quake games they will love this one. Quake 4 is by far an exciting 
 game from start to finish. The game might have some frame rate problems but that's only a small 
 portion of the entire game. Overall the game's frame rate is good. The game starts you off entering 
 the battle against the strogg on the strogg's homeplanet. Your ship crashed and you are dazed and 
 confused only to then be awakened by a teammate. You start off with a pistol but will find a machine 
 guy very quickly in the game. The weapons are very cool with the machine gun and pistol having 
 flashlights equiped on them allowing you to see in dark places. The game resembles a little bit 
 like doom 3 with small coridors and dark areas. But sometimes you will get to use a walker or tank 
 and be out in the open destroying turrets that are flying down from the sky. The enemies are clever 
 and they pose a good challenge. The squad that you have assembled around you sometimes is very 
 smart and helps you out alot. There are medics and armor people around that replenish your armor 
 and health. The gameplay is intense as most of the time the strogg encounter you popping out at 
 you like in doom 3. But its almost more predictable than in doom 3. The enemies aren't push overs 
 either. They will use tactics and communicate with other strogg. The battles are very intense and 
 the bosses are no push overs especially the makron. Graphics are incredible and very detailed. 
 The game is fairly easy to adjust to and the game mechanics are not difficult to learn. Changing 
 weapons is easy also as there are 2 ways of chaning to certain weapons. Multiplayer is disappointing 
 as it is way too fast for the average gamer. Also it is very rare to find anyone online for this 
 game too. Overall Quake 4 is a great game. It really didn't deserve the score it got on here cause 
 the gameplay is just plain exciting. You will never get bored with this game and after beating 
 it on a difficulty it just makes you want more especially with a ton of achievements for it. Quake 
 4 deserves more credit than it is given. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fps_Mat
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 was a very well designed game but i must admit it was rushed. The frame rate problem wasn't 
 so bad because it goes away after 2 seconds. It can be a pretty difficult game depending on the 
 skill level u play on. Lieutenant is what i played on and it was kind of difficult but fun. The 
 game should have been a bit longer because i completed in in about 6-8 hours. But i am looking 
 forward for the next quake if there is and probably will be. I highly recommend this game if you 
 like dark FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rancid125
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Well I rented this game from my friend today. And I have to say i thought it was going to blow. 
 Then i turned it on and right away i was in action. And I love action games. So yeah. The grapchis, 
 sounds, and gameplay are great! Although, there are frame rate issues, i'm sure those can be worked 
 out in the near future. I recommend picking this game up, not only for the single player, but for 
 the Multi-Player as well. The Multi-Player is very fast paced, and fast paced games are great. 
 So yeah. I give this an 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tssr1156
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 30, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Overall quake 4 is a modest game with great graphics, clear sound, and OK gameplay, but the multi 
 player one of the reasons many people buy the quake series is sub par. quake 4 on the pc was in 
 my opinion one of the greatest games but its transition to the xbox 360 was a bumpy one that may 
 turn away veterans of this series. the only true reason i didnt give this game a better score is 
 the gut wrenching lag that overtakes you in heavy action, one second its running fine then all 
 of a sudden the game freezes up on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nealkoke
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I dont know what people are talking about the bad framerate for. Its just fine , the weapons are 
 cool, the vehicle parts are exciting, and the AI is very realistic. The graphics are also very 
 good like the framerate and The controls were just perfect. This was much better on the xbox 360 
 because there was no lag or bad graphics and the 360 controller works better than the PC mouse. 
 I had fun playing it over live and its good for some fun shootouts and i basically enjoyed playing 
 this game and this is easily the best launch game in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happierthanU
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  A great game, the graphics were a little disappointing but the gameplay, shadowing, audio, and 
 story are deep and fulfill a dream of a thousand. If you thought doom 3 was good, this game is 
 better and there is actually a variety of enemies. Not the same three, four, or five enemies through 
 out the whole game. A humongous depth of strange and devastating alien and human weaponry. Not 
 neccesarily the best game on the 360. But enough substance to get a gamer on a roll for about two 
 or three hours. The machine gun sounds weird, but thats no biggy. Its just people who think the 
 360 will start out really insanely good. But don't you think it's started out a little faster/better 
 than you thought it would? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick109thou
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is a great game if you are into those sI-fi shooters and like games like ureal... lets start 
 with campain. The graphics are solid but nothing to oww and ahh about. (dont get me wrong they are 
 good) There are some framerate issues in the second half of the game as well... they are not that 
 bad just a sec or two then it is over. The difficultys are very well put.... easy is very easy and 
 hard weeeellll I cant beat it... so now the sound.. each gun sounds good and the enviorment sounds 
 good.. really good in surround.. now how about the multiplayer. THE graphics are decreased but the 
 game play is fast pase and there is almost no lag... a vide warity of guns and you can make some 
 great combos... there are many diffrent game types from ctf to tourney and some very creative ones 
 in between... so if you are into games like unreal and need something to keep you.... well not bored, 
 then you should pick this game up... go on get it and have a blast.. ( if you are not sure if you 
 will like it... rent it and give it a chance) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechedude
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 24, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to stroggos. In Quake 4 you have landed in a very-extreme war with the Strogg on Stroggos. 
 As Cpl. Matthew Kane of Rhino squad you must defeat the Strogg in the war between Good and Evil. 
 throughout the game you will unlock weapons, Such as the machine gun, shotgun, Dark matter gun 
 etc. Early in the game (about 20% through) You will become the Enemy. And the HUD and the gameplay 
 is VERY different "e" is replaced with "3" like "d3ath" and you will now be able to understand 
 strogg machines, be able to use Strogg health stations ( unlike the humans, who have to find a 
 medic) . Many of your allies such as Tech. Strauss who is annoying at sometimes. Okay. Onto the 
 gameplay: The multiplayer is VERY-fast paced. Kill or be killed. The single player is "ok" but 
 throughout the game it seems like it was too rushed to make the launch. I think they could have 
 added a few more months into polishing and the single player but still, ID and RAVEN have done 
 the best of quake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bushwacker13579
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 23, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  i actually really enjoyed this game but what i found was that the inside battles in the strog buildings 
 were sometimes very annoying because it was so dark to the point that most of the time you coudnt 
 see a thing and then when you tried to use your "trusty" light equipped on the pistol and your 
 machine gun (which i was also dissapointed with because it takes a while before the pistol or the 
 machinegun can kill something that is better than your average strogg) the light emitted a beam 
 that lit up one spot that was atleast 3 feet in diameter and for some reason didnt have any effect 
 on the darkness around that one spot which wasnt very realistic and in turn since it was so dark 
 around that one spot it gave you tunnel vision and the light just made it harder to see so eventually 
 i just turned the contrast and brightness on my tv to where i didnt even have to use the light 
 ,which i found worked fairly well but other than that i really like all the guns (which made the 
 game more fun than what it would have been if alll you had was like halo weapons) and the graphics 
 were ........... fairly good other than the lighting which also caused the shadows to be a little 
 much but other than that i had a really fun time watching gruesome cutscenes and killing hundreds 
 of strogg every day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 18, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Personally I really liked this game. The frame rate issues are htere and are serious but they happen 
 so little you tend to forget about them. It is really noticable but it lasts 5-10 seconds. Basically 
 this is a more violent version of halo its bloodier and you get to shoot a lot more things. The 
 story is pretty similar to halos. The strogg are very similar to the flood mixed with the covenant. 
 I can say this is one of the goriest most violent games I've played and I've been around the block 
 a few times. Other then the framerate issues the graphics are really impressive. My biggest problem 
 with the game is the sound the weapons and aliens sound great but when your allies give you orders 
 they are muffled and impossible to understand. Since this is where you get your objectives this 
 can cause problems. Yeah you can hit back to get your objectives but these are much shorter and 
 way to brief to help a whole lot. I also hated the vehicle sequences they were too easy and just 
 dumb. They were cleary put in to add length. The online play sucks it is just way too simple the 
 only strategy is what gun to use. By the way the guns are awesome.
  
  Botton Line: If you like Quake 2 or Halo you will like this game. The framerate problems are really 
 exagerated out of proportion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheerio2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Personally, I think the is the best game for the 360 right now. They messed up the review on this 
 site big time and it is way off. If your into shooting things like me you'll love this game. I've 
 played msny types of games before, but a game that kept me hooked was the Socom series. S going 
 from Socom to this is a big difference, but it is a great difference. You get to feel like your 
 in the game. The controls are very basic and the graphics are simply amazing. Sound is also great, 
 and the gameplay is what drew me into this game. You feel like you are the main character and you 
 want to kill everything in your way. The online is also pretty good. It is also very basic, kill 
 just about everything in death match mode and there are some other modes you can choose from as 
 well. It is a very fast paced multiplayer, but a very fun one. If you like a single player shooter 
 this is the game for you. If your looking for a great online that you could play for hours on end 
 than I would think again, because its almost the same thing over and over. Overall it is a great 
 game. It is worth a rent, possibly a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyt66
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I've seen all kinds of mixed reviews for Quake 4 especially on the 360... Gamespot's 6.6 almost 
 put me off buying it altogether... but my Xmas list was looking a little slim so I decided to go 
 for it.... and overall I was quite pleased with my decision.
  
  You play as Matthew Caine... a new member of tough marine troupe... Rhino Squad... following on from 
 the events of Quake 2 as we join the marine forces they are heading for their first landing on 
 the home planet of evil biomecanical monstrosities the Strogg, and it's all out war from the start.
 
  
  As with all of the Quake series this is a first person shooter, ulike in previous installments 
 however you regularly find yourself fighting your enemies shoulder to shoulder with a number of 
 allied units as you battle with you're fellow marines to eliminate the Strogg menace, sometimes 
 their pressence just serves to add extra firepower, however as sometimes you'll meet field medics 
 and techs that serve strategic as they are able to restore your health and armour mid battle as 
 long as you keep them in one piece. The friendly faces of your Rhino Squad team mates also team 
 up with you on regular intervals and their struggles and plights throughout the campaign serve 
 as further meat to the games storyline.
  
  Graphically i found this game quite pleasing... I feel this is where the game might have drawn flak 
 from those who have previously played the PC version and mention frame rate problems and other 
 graphical glitches. Now perhaps It's because I never played the game on the PC or perhaps im just 
 uncultured but I noticed no such problems... from my viewpoint while I can conceed that the Xbox 
 360 is capable of better visuals as we have seen from the likes of Perfect Dark etc... there is 
 nothing about the graphics I witnessed that impared my enjoyment on the game in anyway.. and quotes 
 of "next gen graphics should be better" aside I found the visuals to be of a high standard.
  
  The game however is not without it's glitches on a number of occasions on completing a level 
 the game failed to load the next causing my machine to hang up... perhaps this was an issue with 
 a certain batch or something similar but despite exchanging the game for a new copy once the same 
 problem did arise on occasion.. and from looking on forums it appears others suffered the same problem... which 
 can be annoying to say the least. In my expierience at least this happened more towards the start 
 of the game, perhaps more thorough testing was required and this is symptomatic of rushing the 
 games release to meet the 360 launch date but this is unconfirmed and does not effect the game 
 itself as a whole.
  
  I found the weapons on the whole to be varied... well balanced and satisfying from the rapid firing 
 carnage dealt by the Nail Gun and Hyper blaster, and the close range carnage of the shotgun, to 
 the death vortex spewing dark matter gun. The enemies are well designed, varied and have good solid 
 AI requiring good tactical awareness and focus on choosing the correct weapon for any given situation, 
 Likewise the AI of your team mates is fairly solid.. they get stuck into battles and manage to mostly 
 avoid running into you're line of fire, although of occasion when you are supposed to follow someone 
 to the next location they do seem to enjoy charging off without thinking that you might like to 
 pick up all that ammo and health that may be scattered around. 
  
  Gameplay wise the use of vehicles and some on the rails shooting sections help to keep a bit of 
 variety in the air and the use of challenges and acheivements increase lifespan of the game and 
 attempt to tempt you back to unlock further boasts for your gamer profile.
  
  Another unfortunate downpoint is that although the game does feature a live multiplayer mode... I 
 am actually yet to catch an online game as the servers seem to be permanently deserted which is 
 unfortunate since with no one to play with multiplayer mode becomes somewhat redundant.
  
  Finally one final upward point which led me to further enjoy this game was the suprise inclusion 
 of the sweet little bonus disk I found in the games packaging... along with standard goodies such 
 as making of videos it also features the full version of the classic Quake 2 all ready to roll 
 on the 360 a nice touch nd another full game to play... it can't be bad.
  
  So to conclude while not a life changing expierience I found Quake 4 enjoyable and compelling from 
 beginning to end and though in time it may be overshadowed in a growing 360 software catalogue 
 you could certainly do a lot worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  If there's anything that gets my blood boiling, it's crappy console ports of good PC games. It 
 happened to Half-Life 2, and now it happened to Quake 4. First off, Gamespot is dead on about the 
 frame rate issues. In less than two hours, I saw this game turn into a slide show no fewer than 
 five times. There was'nt a huge monster (although it lags when that happens too) , or a big group 
 of enemies, it was just me and one other guy duking it out. It's hard to get involved in a game 
 when it chugs along with every step you take. It would be forgivable if the load times weren't 
 so long, or so plentiful, but the game often stops to load load load just like Half-Life 2 on Xbox. 
 It's a pretty big issue, and I'm sure most other gamers would happily take a less pretty, but smooth 
 running game over this. As for gameplay, it's the standard id shooter. Lots of guns, lots of bad 
 things, and lots of blood. It can be fun at times, but again, the frame rate problem just absolutely 
 kills this game. I would advise renting it if you're curious, but it's not worth anything over 
 $20. As for that guy on the review page saying "Best game ever on Xbox 360", I don't what you're 
 smoking, but it must be some good sh*t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomgamer27
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 20, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  i personally have not played the other Quake games, so i am a newcomer. however the single player 
 is great for not such a deep story like half-life 2. AI is rather intelligent from ur squad mates 
 to the Strogg. The graphics and sound are amazing of course. Framerate issues and LONG loading 
 times bring down the intensity of the game. The multiplayer is fast and furious with hardly as 
 much framerate. Multiplayer is probably the best part of the game. Overall if u r looking for a 
 good single player as well as multiplayer, Quake 4 is worth buying. (gamespot should have given 
 a lot better rating the framerate is not nearly as bad as they claimed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Best Game on the xbox 360 PERIOD. PERFECT GAME fun Single Player and the best online game on the 
 xbox 360. BUY THIS GAME!!! If you like FPS games you will love this game. There are no cheats online 
 the action is faced pace guns are crazy rail gun owns and its highly addictive B u y t h i s g 
 a m e w h a t a r e y o u w a i t i n g f o r b u y t h i s g a m e g o o o o o now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramo_zemog
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jan 19, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Story - Quake 4 features a long single player mode. This isnt as great a feature as you would 
 think, as the many engine issues drag things out longer than they should. The story is well written 
 and has several great moments, and is worth a rental just for that.
  
  The graphics are well done, some of the best I have seen (much better on PC) . 
  
  The weapon 
 and ambient sounds are very well done, but what happened with the voices is beyond me. Any voice 
 not coming over your comm link is muddy and almost undecipherable. 
  
  My final recommendation, buy it for PC is so much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofans
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:05 am PT
Review:  Quake4 on the xbox360 is a great game with great graphics, exciting gameplay (except some bugs) and 
 good sounds. Of course the PC version of the game is better, but the xbox360 is not too bad either.
 
  The story brings you into an alien planet, Strogos. You are Matthew Kane, a marine who has been 
 sent to defeat the Strog, an powerful alien race. The game will take you about 15 hours to complete 
 on hard difficulty, shorter if on a easier difficulty. You will fight will marines from different 
 squards. if the marine is from Rhino squard, the are very tough, and if they are killed, you lose. Marines 
 from other squards are weak, so protect them.
  Since most of the enemys are made of dead marines' bodies, or through a strogifying process, you 
 will find yourself being stroified at last. Luckily your squard rescued you before you are completely 
 turned into a strog. You will find yourself walk faster, have more health and use strog healing machines.
 
  The weapons in Quake4 is pretty standard. You will have a machine gun, a blaster, a shotgun, a grenade 
 lancher, a hyperblaster, a nailgun, a railgun, a rocket lancher, a lightning gun and the Quake4 version 
 of the BFG, the dark matter gun.
  Although the game uses DOOM3 engine, the graghics isn't as great as DOOM3. It is STILL good anyway.
 
  Quake4 is still a good game. If you are a expert shooter, and you are planning to have a xbox360, you 
 MUST buy this game, as long with Call of Duty2 and Perfect Dark Zero.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anguineach
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Highlights:
  
  Story - Quake 4 features a long single player mode. This isnt as great a feature as you would 
 think, as the many engine issues drag things out longer than they should. The story is well written 
 and has several great moments, and is worth a rental just for that. 
  
  Visuals  The lighting and shadows are well done, some of the best I have seen. As others have 
 said, the textures are pretty muddy overall and the graphics in general did not impress.
  
  Frame rate  If you havent experienced the notorious slow-down, then youre lucky. Some areas 
 of the game, especially later on are almost unplayable, the Tram shooting section and the final 
 battle being the most egregious.
  
  Sound  The weapon and ambient sounds are very well done, but what happened with the voices is 
 beyond me. Any voice not coming over your comm link is muddy and almost undecipherable. I thought 
 this might be an issue with the center channel volume, but that was not the case. Why isnt there 
 an option for subtitles? Even better dialogue you can hear!
  
  Load times: I admit it, I died a lot. Playing through the single player on corporal, some of the 
 enemies are just flat out hard and there are areas where you can fall to your death quite easily. 
 This lead to a decent amount of loading from previous saves which takes a LONG time. Its 15 seconds 
 or so to load the saved data and then another 30 seconds to load the game engine, which seems a 
 LOT longer when youre just sitting there. I hope part of the HD era involves significantly reducing 
 or eliminating load times.
  
  Multiplayer: Well its Quake! Seriously, if youve played Quake 2 or 3, youve already seen it. 
 The only difference I noticed is the arenas are smaller and some of the weapons behave a bit differently 
 than a player familiar with the previous games would expect. You cant browse available games and 
 the number of players online is pretty small at times. The multiplayer does support parties and 
 that is a welcome feature which all multiplayer games should have. (Yes Im talking to you, Call 
 of Duty 2!)
  
  My final recommendation, rent it, play it on Private difficulty (easy) with auto aim on. Hopefully 
 you wont get too frustrated by the various issues and will enjoy your time on Strogos!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamermon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Good game except you need to play Quake I or II to understand it. Playing Quake III isn't goin 
 to teach ya anything Quake III is a crapy multiplayer game! Anyways, the graphics are pretty good 
 and story line is a 9.8 but its a 5.6 if u never played Quake II. I've never played Quake I so 
 im not gona alk bout it much. Anyway, sound is good, Gameplay is good except, now i havn't fiished 
 the game yet im only 1/3rd done but so far ive only used that tank once and mech walker once. Except 
 where i am now i just got out of the mech walker. But I wouldn't make this your firts game. I'd 
 get Call of Duty 2 and Need for Speed: Most Wanted for your first 2. but overall its a pretty good 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swedish-marine
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  I have waited a long time for this game, checking everything out, like reviews, media and all that. 
 When I saw the game only got 6.6 of Gamespot I thought they might just be wrong somehow but... 
 they were, again very correct. 
  
  The game starts up with a rwally ugly-looking 'intro' with a couple of corpses flying around in 
 space and then a huge laggy starship flies past and you'll see some really ugly scenes with some 
 semi-good looking charathers just evacuting a ship. 
  
  The voiceacting is really bad, just as the AI, the weapons weapons and effects and the single-player 
 itself. If you're a fan of Doom 3 or just have played the game you'll find many many objects from 
 the game, such as the wall-textures, the monitors and such things but you will not have an second 
 of that experience of Doom 3 in the game. 
  
  Ok, when you've landed on this planet or whatever these humans are here for you're finding yourself 
 with a group of marines, nothing special, they're not looking too good at all, and then next second 
 you'll face the enemies which are this always-everywhere really bad, boring enemies that just seem 
 to disapear after you've killed them which gives you no time to get a clue what they really are, 
 more than a cartoon-looking pathetic try to make it look scary or something. And the variaty of 
 enemies is the same as usual, first the extreme-easy sucktards which you'll kill on one or two 
 shots with the main automatic rifle, and then some bigger ones that is a little more hard-ass to 
 kill and so on, you know the drill. 
  
  This game is have to be the worst for the Xbox360 launch, it doesn't feel next-gen it doesn't even 
 pretend to be, it looks like an really crappy game for the Playstation 2 or something like that. 
 I recomend all Quake fans to get it on PC to get the multiplayer (in a good way) or just get on 
 rolling with Quake 3: Arena which is a alot better game this this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnexus3372x
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 16, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Editor's reviewed it as -- lets just say -- not good. I personally just love constantly killing things. 
 This is one of those games. It never got old cycling through different weapons and killing the 
 same 13 creatures. There were some awesome cinematics -- the transformation to a Strogg. Overall 
 the fps change happened maybe twice for me, and never interrupted gameplay. This game was great 
 in it's own sense. If you have played the Quake series before this is a great title, because it 
 keeps with the theme of endless slaughtering. Do not compare it to CoD2 or PDZ -- they are different 
 styles of shooting. This game is a great pick up if you like to constantly kill things with a seemingly 
 endless campaign. I give it slightly less than a ten -- on its own level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAFFYDC
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing Quake 4 and I loved it. The game starts off pretty much like your typical 
 run and gun shooter but then it begins to get cooler and cooler. The enemies, locations, weapons, 
 etc. just keep getting better throughout the game. I don't understand what all the fuss was about 
 with the framerate. I only recall maybe one or two events during the entire game where I noticed 
 the fram rate dropping and it didn't affect the gameplay at all. I also like that the game allows 
 you to save anywhere (something everygame should offer) . Not only was the single player game fun 
 but online is also fun (better online than COD2) . I'd would've been cool if they had some sort 
 of on-line co-op mode like DOOM 3 but I'd still recommend this game to anyone that likes sci-fi 
 shooters. Plus you get a bonus disk that includes a full version of Quake 2 (which looks pretty 
 sharp on the 360) and lots of behind the scene extras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beelzedub
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lame Doom 3 rip-off and has some serious lag and frame rate problems in several 
 areas. Enemies are ridiculous AI is predictable graphics are not next-gen and gameplay is clumbsy. 
 Shorter vehicle intermission levels require absolutely no skill or tact whatsoever and are simply 
 a time waster. The weapons are almost identical to those found in the Doom 3 series. Online gameplay 
 is dated and looks exactly like Quake III Arena, the game overall is way too easy. Save your $60.00 
 and simply play the XBOX 360 free downloadable demo. The Ravensware people took a great Doom 3 
 engine and didn't improve upon it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videohead20
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  For being a 360 release game I was impressed. The graphics were smoth in most parts and didnt see 
 too much lag or pixelation. The pace was fast as were the movements. I was looking for a bloody 
 all out shooter and that is what I found. The acheivments were a great challenge as was the harder 
 difficulties. Multiplayer was very fast and gave me at least 10+ hours of button mashing. Now for 
 the bad. There were a few lagy areas in the game along with some freezing issues. With the 360 
 it was a pain to wait for all the load times in single player and even worse times in online multi 
 player. But, pver all a great game that I recomend to many FPS fans that come into the store looking 
 for a good 360 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neurothustra
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm really only reacting to Gamespot's review, which seems pretty low considering that it does 
 give the impression that it isn't a great game. It is a great game, it just doesn't reinvent the 
 genre in any way. But is that a bad thing really? Gamers like innovation but that doesn't mean 
 that a game requires it to simply be good. And fun.
  
  I haven't experienced any extreme framerate issues, at least none that would make me stop to reconsider 
 the value of Quake 4. And while all of teh weapons are standard fare, there is still a decent selection 
 with which to off the uglies in the game.
  
  Graphics won't make a crappy game better, but they sure do make a decent game really, really cool. 
 Q4 is just a gorgeous game that serves not only to create a near photosrealistic environment, but 
 also as a reminder of things to come for the 360 (re: they will get even better as the developers 
 master the dev kits) . 
  
  The multiplayer is also fun. It plays faster than the campaign which means that it feels just like 
 Q3, only on a console. Again, nothing groundbreaking but not a disappointment either. It's just 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  The GS review honestly did scare me and had me believe that this game was crummy, and not worth 
 trying out. However, thanks to my friend who had purchased this game at launch, as well as the 
 other reviewers, I bought the game and came out happy with it. The frame rate issues and lag and 
 whatnot did not occur in my copy of the game. And apparently, it didn't happen in some of the other 
 reviewers copy also. You are a Marine and have a large crew of other Marines (your part of the Rhino 
 squad) and invade the Strogg homeworld. The graphics run on the same engine as Doom 3, and it still 
 looks gorgeous. But Quake 4 is more polished than Doom 3. Quake 4 is pretty much Doom 3's action 
 packed cousin. In exchange for Doom's creepy music, slow paced speed of the game, and only being 
 able to use the flashlight and gun one at a time; Quake offers you speedy action and the help of 
 other Marines as well as having a flashlight on your gun. Plus, it also gives you wide open and 
 outdoor environments. Quake's enemies are vicous and come in different varieties. They also tend 
 to hide and use small tactics to try to take you out. The game is full of gore and disturbing images 
 of body parts everywhere and you realize how horrific and how cruel the Strogg are. And eventually, 
 the only way to destroy the Strogg is with you. Becuase you will go through a horrific torture 
 scene where you will see yourself, as well as other unlucky Marines getting stabbed and amputated 
 and turned into a Strogg. However, before they are able to change your mind and set your mind into 
 their Nexus so you can fight for them, you are saved. You will then have more life, and stronger 
 abilites as well. The game is a good game and I believe It was rated too low for what it delivers 
 to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ll_jun10r_ll
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  
  This is the fouth game in the Quake 4, however, even though it has a rich story with strong characters, 
 Quake 4 makes to many mistakes to counter the things it does right. The story takes place after 
 Quake 2, and continues the war against the Strogg. You play as Matthew Kane, or in military terms, 
 Corporal Kane, one sertified badass.
  
  If you have Played Doom 3 on the consoles, then all of this will seem very familiar to you. You 
 won't be in the dark nearly as much, but you may wish you were, after seeing your squadmates dead 
 corpses being examined and looked into, you will wish you were playing to doom to not see it.
 
  
  You start the game making your way to planet Stroggos, your with your platoon known as Rhino Squad. 
 As you make your way, your squad mates begin losing faith in you for being the new guy, making 
 bets on whether or not you survive your first day. Before you get the chance to land, your ship 
 is shot down and half your squad turns up dead. As you make your way through the story, you will 
 be given routine tasks to do. 
  
  Halfway through the story, after nearly setting the enimie back a long way, you are captured and 
 put into the process of become a strogg (Note: the game will make you watch this entire process, 
 and its not very pretty) . Just before you are put under the controll of the enemie, your squad 
 makes a rush into the lab and frees you. Of course, you are still really f**ked up and there's 
 nothing to change that. However, this does help by making you stronger and faster. 
  
  Gameplay is very fast paced and easy to know. Online runs very smoothly with much less lag than 
 you'll find in Call of Duty 2, and also easy to get into. You'll find a wide variety of weapons 
 in the game, and as you progress through the game you will find or be given different mods for 
 you weapons that will either increase your clip on that weapon or change how that fire on the gun 
 works. You will also have intelligence in your sqaud to help you fight, you will have medics and 
 technicians to help replenish your health and armor to help you live a little longer. However, 
 the game does feature some long load times that will get very annoying, especially with the fact 
 that you have to go through them every time you die or do well and finish the level
  
  The graphics are what keep this game from being something much better. The surrounding all seem 
 very nice and desciptive, but once you get close to everything, its all very gross and very poor. 
 The thing that ruins this game though is the frame rate and the random graphic gitches that seem 
 to occur almost each time you kill an enimie. The character models of you and your squadmates all 
 look rich and very detailed, each marine you meet looks rich and much nicer than just about everything 
 else in the game.
  
  The sound was very fluid. Your guns shooting and your enimies cries of death all sounded very detailed 
 and rich. However, when you try to talk to the marinesthey sound very blurred and cause you to 
 turn up you volume much more, only if you care what they had to say. 
  
  Even though i personally enjoyed this game very much, I cannot recommend this game if you played 
 the PC version, of if you have Call of Duty 2 or Perfect Dark Zero. But if your interested in trying 
 out this game, I would say rent it to try it out. It's a fun game, but with the week graphics, 
 glitches and long load times, plus with all the other options you have, you really have no reason 
 to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xspawn69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  The single player on this game was decent. What was really disappointing was the fact that there 
 is no split screen multi-player. Unfortunately, I just assumed that there would be. If I had known, 
 I probably would not have bought it. I was really looking forward to playing it against friends 
 while having them in the same room to talk trash to while killing them. And since I live in an 
 area where I cant get high speed internet (no cable available/ satellite too expensive) I won't 
 be able to play the multiplayer at all. Pity, all the time that was spent on this game, and Raven 
 Software completely left out what should have been the best part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsinger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are not nearly as bad as stated in the gamespot review. It looks very similar to doom 
 3, a game all the reviewers agreed had some of the best visuals on the PC only a year ago. The 
 frame rate problem do not take away from the game at all in the single player mode. The lighting 
 was as good as any game out and on a $400 system compared to my $3000 computer that is pretty impressive. 
 The story is better than expected and the gameplay is standard FPS which is not bad. I agree that 
 the vehicle sequences were hurt by the recharing of your shield so that you really had no chance 
 of ever dying. Overall, it's no half life2, but is an enjoyable game for any FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Graphics are great and smooth; fun and addicting mulitplayer (if you can find people) ; Comes with 
 Quake II full version with multi player!!
  
  Cons:
  Sounds are just incredibly muffled; a tiny lag sometimes in the graphics era; not enough people 
 playing online; Quake II has achievements that don't award on your profile.
  
  Overall:
  A great shooter and worth the $49 I spent on it. When I'm done with it, I can kick back with some 
 remastered Quake II!
  
  The game runs just fine for me. I'm also running an updated firmware on my Xbox360. I rarely run 
 into any slowdowns. Basically, the frames go from like 50fps to 30fps when there's a ton of things 
 on the screen at once. That's nothing. I have this game on PC, and I didn't want to upgrade my 
 PC for a few grand, so this is running just fine for me. Still, major slowdowns? I haven't seen 
 any. I will say the sound completely sucks! You have to turn completely around to hear what the 
 heck your teammates are saying. The other sounds aren't that spiffy either. The multi player is 
 a great experience since I think Quake III is one of the best arena death match games ever. I just 
 wish they had bots... and split screen. And third person mode just so I can watch my guy run around.
 
  
  I dunno much about the story. I found Quake II to just be a shooter with cool weapons when I was 
 younger so I don't really care about that. I just like the game. It's fun. Plus it comes with Quake 
 II, and it looks just as old skool as old skool can get. If it weren't for the sounds, this game 
 would be more than perfect.
  
  Besides, the only lag I've been getting is online play. But it could be my DSL is just running 
 a little slow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  In Quake 4 (Q4) , you play as Corporal Matthew Kane, the kick butt space marine who destroyed the 
 Strogg leader, the Makron, in Quake 2. Well, the Strogg are not defeated, and are in fact turning 
 the tide in the ongoing war between the humans and the Strogg. Earth, and humanity for that matter, 
 are in grave danger. As part of one of the elite space marine groups, Rhino Squad, you're tasked 
 with infiltrating and disrupting Strogg operations on the planet Stroggos. True, the story does 
 sound very typical, and honestly, it is. However, it's the execution of the story that makes Quake 
 4 standout; more on that later. And the squad style of play had me, and probably a great many other 
 Quake gamers, worried. I really didn't think squad based combat was the way to go with the new 
 Quake, but after having played the game, and seeing how well Raven executed this new gameplay element, 
 I can honestly say the squad based factor in this game really adds a great deal to the total package.
 
  
  One reason the squad based element to Q4 works so well is because of how well it is balanced. I 
 would say that about 65-70% of the game is spent fighting by yourself, and the other part of the 
 game is spent with at least one other space marine fighting along with you. The times when you 
 are teamed up with a squad -- be it the Rhino Squad or Viper Squad or one of the handful of others -- are 
 brought about very seamlessly. Sometimes you will begin a mission with a couple of squad mates, 
 other times you will have to rescue or locate a fellow marine, and other times you will just bump 
 into some marines as you traverse the dangerous planet of Stroggos. Whichever way you encounter 
 some friendlies, you can count on it being a positive thing. For one, having another gun running 
 around with you is a plus, but you will also encounter techs and medics, you who repair your armor 
 and restore your health, respectively. Technical marines will also, at a few points during the 
 game, upgrade some of your weaponry. For example, when you first get the nailgun, it fire's relatively 
 slowly from what you might remember from the original Quake. At a certain point in the game, you 
 will encounter a Tech will upgrade your nailgun for you to increase its firing rate. There's another 
 upgrade you get for the nailgun later on, but I won't spoil that. Other weapons, including the 
 infamous Hyperblaster, are upgraded as well. Besides being helpful in that way, techs and medics 
 are also pretty capable of handling themselves. This goes especially for your standard combat marines, 
 be it a Private you haven't encountered before, or one of the primary NPCs of the game. These guys 
 can hold their own and aren't afraid to shoot first and ask questions later -- exactly the kind of 
 attitude you need in this game. That said, there aren't any squad controls, that is, you can't 
 give them orders. I think this was a good idea because, trust me; you'll have enough to worry about 
 in Q4 besides trying to manage your team. I was very pleased to see how independent these friendly 
 AI were, they never got lost, always packed a punch, and it was extremely rare that they ever got 
 in my way for more than a second.
  
  
  
  
  
  Speaking of AI, your fellow marines aren't the only ones with some wit. The enemies in Q4 are, 
 for the most part, crafty. Some Strogg are built for brute strength and neither move very quickly 
 nor duck for cover -- so they will often take an extended beating, but they can dish it out just 
 as well. The Nexus Protectors, Gunners, and Grunts are good examples of these. The majority of 
 the enemies, on the other hand, are a lot more agile and will not only strafe, jump, duck, teleport, 
 and roll out of the way, but will also seek cover behind various objects in the environment. This 
 is especially true of my favorite kind of enemy in the game, the Tacticals. You will also see at 
 least one of these behaviors in the other enemies in the game, including the Gladiators, Heavy 
 Tanks, Sentries, Iron Maidens, to name a few. Enemies will often attack in groups, from above, 
 by surprise, etc., to really keep you on your toes. The variety of the enemies, their behaviors, 
 their approaches, the weaponry they possess -- each of these elements makes for a very respectable 
 challenge. 
  
  Another point of balance in this game is that, for all the variety and balance you will see from 
 your enemies, you have as much variety and balance with your weapons. To begin with, you have your 
 trusty Blaster, just a simple pistol like from Quake 2. No more radiosity lighting effect though, 
 as some of you will fondly remember from those days long past with Quake 2 and OpenGL. Anyhow, 
 you also have a machine gun, a single barrel shotgun, the Hyperblaster, a grenade launcher, rocket 
 launcher, nailgun, railgun, lightning gun, and dark matter gun. Admittedly, you won't use the Blaster 
 much after the start of the game, except for maybe triggering explosive barrels or for its attached 
 light. The machine gun is the only other weapon that has a light on it, and there is generally 
 plenty of ammo for it, so it tends to be what you carry for the most part. This works out well 
 though, because the machine is really sweet. Initially, before you get an upgrade, you can only 
 hold forty bullets per clip; after the upgrade, that doubles and then you're really talking. Not 
 to mention your machine gun has a sweet scope; it reminded me a lot of the Precision Rifle in Red 
 Faction. The other weapons are pretty self explanatory, except for the dark matter gun. The dark 
 matter gun is basically your BFG10K, in a way. This phenomenal weapon is obviously extremely powerful 
 and it totally rocks for shooting down a hallway or tight space. The reason being is that it launches 
 a large circular black hole of sorts that basically gibs anything except tough enemies. So it obviously 
 has its purposes, but what I'm really getting at is that all of the weapons are extremely useful 
 throughout the game. During most of my firefights, I found myself often switching between at least 
 three, if not as many as seven or eight, weapons. The reason behind this was rarely due to ammo 
 problems, but instead was due to the changing needs of the firefight. I can honestly say that I 
 have rarely played a first person game that balanced ten weapons so incredibly well. I basically 
 found equal use from all ten of the weapons (except for the Blaster) , and that's something not 
 many first person games can say. It's really a testament to the variety of enemies, level design, 
 and attention to balance that made this possible.
  
  On more general terms, Quake 4 is very much a reflex shooters game. There aren't really any puzzles 
 to solve and there is very little environment interaction except for pressing a few control switches 
 and calling elevators. Other than that it's all about the action. The game feels, and looks, an 
 awful lot like Doom 3-- you will spend most of the game starring down your machine gun's flashlight, 
 which you will either like, hate, or be indifferent too. Personally, I found this to be much more 
 tolerable than in Doom 3 thanks to the light being attached to the very capable machine gun, but 
 also largely due to the fact that there are a fair bit of well lit and outdoor battles. The game, 
 while certainly heavy on the reflexes and light on the thinking, is also very much a door to door 
 shooter -- from the very outset of the game you will essentially go from one unlocked door to another, 
 with a decent amount of back tracking involved. This very linear style of play is often exemplified 
 by the level design itself; you will often encounter an alternate path, but it either dead ends 
 very quickly via a wall of fire or another locked door. The good thing about this style of play 
 I guess is that it really helps keep the action moving along and keeps the pace of the war and 
 story moving along pretty realistically. I can appreciate that, but you can't help but wonder how 
 much more immersive the game could have been if you could have went 'off course' or just found 
 another route. So, in many ways, Q4 plays a lot like Doom 3, but I think the biggest exceptions 
 to that are the squad battles, the speed the game progresses, and the vehicular combat.
  
  The sequences in the game where you pilot a vehicle, or are at least on one shooting, are fairly 
 few and brief, but very much welcomed. It really adds a great change of pace and atmosphere to 
 the game. Instead of sneaking or running around with your flashlight on your machine gun, you hope 
 into a hover tank or mech and roam around almost totally impervious to damage while destroying 
 all kinds of Strogg. The most fun and best executed example of this element of the game was with 
 the hover tank. By now most of you have seen the movie from E3 with the huge red spider Strogg; 
 battling that sucker in a hover tank was a real treat, as well as the other enemies you fight along 
 the way. It would have been nice to have a little more hover tank action, because it was a great 
 deal of fun and helped you relax a bit after the tense indoor battles. There are also a couple 
 of other parts in the game where you aren't piloting a vehicle, but instead are manning a machine 
 gun with infinite ammo. This isn't as fun as piloting your hover tank or mech and shooting, but 
 these parts are fun and welcomed when you do come across them.
  
  
  
  
  I would have to say that those few parts in the game where you're in a vehicle are about as easy 
 as the game gets. I actually played this game through on Hard, and it was a respectable challenge. 
 Some areas in the game are quite tough and you never know when you'll encounter a new enemy or 
 a boss fight. Despite the challenges, a seasoned shooter, as I consider myself, will have what 
 I would call a 'fun level of difficulty.' Meaning that, for the most part, you will be able to 
 play through a most of the game's areas without dying, but not without some stressful, exciting 
 moments. Additionally, boss fights are engaging, challenging, and fun, but not the kind of challenging 
 that is frustrating. That said, there is still a fair share of very tough spots throughout the 
 game. So while the game is probably too easy on Normal for a lot of shooter fans, I found the Hard 
 mode to be impressively balanced and highly entertaining.
  
  Yet another point I want to make about playing through Q4 is the story and the characters. Most 
 gamers wouldn't even give the story or characters in previous Quake games much of a second thought. 
 I think a big reason for that is that the story and characters in those previous games, like many 
 shooter games both then and now, are underdeveloped --so the player never really gets into either 
 of them. I figured Quake 4 would be much the same, despite having fellow marines alongside me. 
 I'm happy to say my expectations were wrong on both counts. For one, the story in Q4, while having 
 your typical doomsday backdrop, is executed and told very well. It actually seems like the places 
 your going on Stroggos and the objectives you're completing carry significant importance and value. 
 You know, a lot of times in shooter games you just go through the motions and boom, game over. 
 Q4 was quite different for a few reasons, chief amongst them being the characters in the story. 
 The characters in Q4 -- Cortez, Strauss, Bidwell, Voss, Morris, to name a few -- all fellow marines 
 that you will see many times over throughout the game -- really add a great deal of weight to the 
 game's story. When you and Cortez are fighting to get to the Tram Control Center, or when you are 
 protecting Strauss inside the Tetranode or meeting up with Sgt. Morris -- you really feel the impact 
 of these characters and what they say and do carries along a significant weight to the game. You 
 start to recognize and remember locations in the Strogg base and you remember the voice and appearance 
 of Cortez and company. The characters in Q4 add considerable significance to the already respectable 
 story of Q4, and that greatly enhances the experience.
  
  Graphics
  
  The 360 version of Quake 4 is on par with a high end PC. The biggest problem I noticed in parts 
 of the game were actually framerate issues, which was surprising. Surely the 360 has the power 
 to run Quake 4 smoothly, so I think there was a lack in optimization for the 360 version. Perhaps 
 to get it prepped and released in good time for the 360 launch. Otherwise, visually, Quake 4 is 
 a very impressive game. Obviously the Doom 3 engine is quite a looker, and Raven uses it well in 
 Q4. The texture detail on the characters and world objects is outstanding, as you would expect. 
 Lighting effects in the world are very atmospheric; most areas in the game are pretty dark, so 
 you'll use your flashlight a lot, but there are definitely a good amount of well lit, no-flashlight-needed 
 areas, too. One of the biggest graphical achievements in Q4 is the environment itself; great textures 
 and lighting are two important elements for a good looking world, but the actual scenery you see 
 in Q4 adds tremendously to the level of immersion experienced. There are areas in the Strogg facilities, 
 like the Medical Facility and the Putrification Plant that are absolutely grisly. The presentation 
 of these traumatic scenes is quite good and definitely not for the squeamish. For fear of really 
 spoiling any of the juicy details, I'll leave it at that. What you will see a lot more of in Q4 
 is the technology behind the Strogg -- huge arrays of moving power nodes, and towering marvels inside 
 the Tetranode and Data facilities to name a couple. There is a lot of fine usage of lighting in 
 Q4, and the same goes for the colors used. Most of the game is rendered in steel gray and brown, 
 but there are a significant number of colorful things in the game, too.
  
  A great looking environment wouldn't be complete without some great look characters. Your squad 
 looks and moves very nicely, and I found the enemy's movements to be at least as fluid, with few 
 problems. Some of the weaker Strogg will hop around dodging your fire and one particular type of 
 Strogg will duck and roll right to your face. Other Strogg give you a bit of much appreciated lead 
 time when attacking with certain weapons like the railgun; you can see it charge up for about a 
 second before it blows right through (or by) you.
  
  Further detail was given to the weapons, which all look extremely good. This is definitely one 
 of the best looking machine guns I've ever seen in a game. The Hyperblaster has gotten a facelift 
 since Quake 2, and the nailgun looks a lot bulkier and tougher than what we saw in the original 
 Quake. The rocket launcher in Q4 is top notch, and the grenade launcher looks good, but it isn't 
 the best looking one I've seen. I have to say the railgun doesn't look as good as the one in Quake 
 3, but it's ok. The best looking, or at least the coolest looking weapon in the game, has to be 
 the dark matter gun. Take a look for yourself; it is easily one of the coolest looking weapons 
 in first person shooter history.
  
  Audio
  
  Quake 2 had a superb soundtrack jamming throughout the entire game. There aren't many musical pieces 
 in Q4, but there is this one piece that is really sweet when it plays. You'll hear it a time or 
 two in the game and it's a perfect track for the type of intensity of the moment; much like that 
 one particularly great track some gamers might remember from Shogo MAD, the classic shooter. Other 
 than that, their really isn't much of a soundtrack, but that is fitting for the mood this game 
 is trying to get across.
  
  The effects then, are what you have left and frankly, they're excellent. One thing I have to say 
 right off the bat is the sound of the machine gun -- I've never heard of a better sounding machine 
 gun in any game I have ever played. It has what I would call that perfect kind of tight, punchy, 
 quick fire kind of sound to it. The other weapons, like the shotgun and rocket launcher sound very 
 impressive too. The only real lull in the sound effects package I can gripe a bit about is the 
 sound of your railgun; it just doesn't sound like it packs the punch it used to with Quake 2. However, 
 the gun neither looks as good and tough nor is as powerful as it is in previous Quakes, so that 
 might be what they're going for. The voiceovers, sounds of the Strogg, the machinery and anguish 
 all around are just very well done. I loved hearing the Tacticals communicate, it reminded me a 
 little of the Rangers in Half-Life. They speak in Strogg but it sounds just darn cool. And each 
 NPC has a unique voice too, especially the primary characters which is very important because they're 
 a big part of the game and a lot of time you only hear them via your communicator, and not actually 
 see them. Strauss has sort of a subdued, cautious, accented sound to his voice, while Morris sounds 
 like a very mission based, tough sounding kind of marine, for example. One really cool thing I 
 noticed during a boss fight was a particular FX sound I hadn't heard since Quake 1. There is a 
 part during this boss fight where you can enter a room and there is this really distinct sound 
 of liquid dripping into a puddle -- I believe it was the second level of Quake that players first 
 heard this unmistakable sound and it was really neat that they included it here again in Quake 
 4.
  
  Depth
  
  I wish I kept better track of how long it took me to play through Quake 4. I know for a couple 
 of nights I dropped in about 6 hours straight, because it was that darn fun. All in all I probably 
 spent about 15-17 hours playing through the game on Hard (technically called Lieutenant) . That 
 isn't too bad for a straight forward shooter like this one, and the best part about that is that 
 the story and pace are great throughout. The story is good, and I can see playing through this 
 game again without it really losing a lot of its luster. Sometimes you get a game with such a great 
 story that it doesn't play well the second time through because there were so many scripted events 
 or plot twists that aren't as engaging the second time through. Not that those games are bad, but 
 Q4 does an exceptional job of not only giving you a fine, memorable story, but one that still plays 
 well a second time through.
  
  Quake 4 on the 360 offers 8 player System Link and Live multiplayer. From my limited experience 
 thus far with it, the game runs pretty well and it's fun, although not as much as on the PC. I 
 don't know that Q4 will have as much of an impact in today's market, but the multiplayer should 
 provide a solid experience and really bolster the depth of this game dramatically. I really don't 
 see it being something I'll play a lot on Live, however. 
  
  The 360 version also sports the full version of Quake 2.
  
  Fun Factor
  
  It isn't good 
 enough to have a game that is technically great as well has deep. It's wonderful to have a good 
 story, too, but the fun is where it's at. Not surprisingly, Q4 is a ton of fun. It plays a lot 
 like Quake 2 as far as the intense firefights, but there are also some good moments where you're 
 sneaking around a bit, even if just for a minute or two here and there. The weapons, the story, 
 the squad, the enemies, everything really comes together impressively well in Q4 and that makes 
 for a terrifically fun time for the gamer. It is a delicate balance achieved by Raven here yet 
 again, as Q4 flows along at an exciting pace, provides plenty of challenge, and remains totally 
 fun the whole way through. Q4 is game that I can see playing through again a second and third time, 
 and it still being a lot of fun. Additionally, there are a lot of great moments in Q4 that will 
 provide you with some great gaming moment memories. My favorite moment in the game was actually 
 just a firefight I had with a bunch of Tacticals. I could hear them communicating as I crept closer... I 
 turned off my flashlight and just played it by ear and wit. It's hard to describe the moment with 
 out going on and on about it, but it was totally awesome; it wasn't even a scripted event, either.
 
  
  Overall
  
  If you enjoy Quake and have a high end PC, I do suggest playing it on PC instead of making the 
 $60 purchase for the 360. Regardless of your decision, Quake 4 is a great success. If you're looking 
 for a true sequel to Quake 2, this is it, and as a fan of all the Quake games, Quake 4 is a superb 
 addition to the series. Packed with superb graphics and sound, a really nice execution of a good 
 story, great monsters and nice AI, and all the action you could expect, Quake 4 is an excellent 
 game. It might not have all of the clever puzzle solving things you see in Half-Life 2 or the physics 
 it has, for that matter. Its story might not be as thrilling as FEAR's or be quite as technically 
 astounding, but Quake 4 earned a spot on my gaming shelf and it'll be on my hard drive for a long 
 time to come.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameDestroyer88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 has been ported to the 360 just in time for launch. It takes place after Quake 2. You play 
 as Corporal Matthew Kane, a regular marine caught up in the conflict with the Strogg.
  
  Gameplay: Alright first and foremost Quake IV is just a regular FPS draped in Quake clothing. It's 
 formula is simple, easy, and fun. Q4 runs on the Doom3 engine with few noticiable tweaks. The controls 
 are nice and smooth, well suited to the 360 controller. The game has weaponry that would make a 
 machoist cream in his jock. Boasting both human and strogg weapons, each is unique to make sure 
 your enemies never die the same way. Now this is where I get harsh, because while the game is enjoyable... it 
 is not flawless. For one, during frantic firefights the framerate drops drastically.... I'm talking 
 bout' single frames here too.... I mean I got into a shootout and I counted the frames until it 
 went back to normal speed. This boggles me because, well isn't lag supposed to be obselete now. 
 You'd think everything would move at 60fps or higher on the 360. Second the loading. The loading 
 isn't agrivating, but it can get annoying if your on fire. Nothing kills a hot streak more than 
 having to wait 30 seconds to get to the next area. I can't really talk about the Multiplayer that 
 much since I haven't checked it out yet.
  
  Graphics: This is where Quake redeems itself. Like I mentioned before... it runs off the Doom3 engine. 
 So automatically you know what to expect, yeah thats right... off the wall graphics. Even some more 
 details have been finely tuned to make this look great. This aspect is only hampered down by the 
 terrible lag.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is great..... and once again I have another mute protagonist. The gun effects 
 sound great, and the ambience is really creepy. I don't think id intended to make Q4 as creepy 
 as it is, but for me it's welcome.
  
  Overall: I think 6.6 was a bit harsh for the good people here on gamespot. I'm giving the game 
 at least an 8.2.....8.4 topps. Honestly I think they reviewed the fact that it's another Quake.... instead 
 of the gameplay mechanics itself. This one is really underappreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is a pretty good shooter and a port from a PC classic, reminiscent of the Doom and half 
 life ports from the original xbox the game is pretty long for a shooter, clocking in at a little 
 bit over 20 hours, and giving you some edge of your seat moments that will nearly make you have 
 a heart attack, it reminded me of halo in the fact that you are versing a group of tough alien 
 creatures as a powerful human, but not much beside that, as for the framerate issues, the ones 
 i got were VERY minimal and near the end of the game, not enough to warrant a bad review though 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazygamer55
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is decent game with decent graphics but some of the graphics on some of the ships and enviorments 
 are bland but overall the graphics are decent. The gameplay performs well with fun weapons at your 
 disposable. But the framerate suffers a bit and at sometimes it gets really bad but it doesn't 
 occur that often. Overall Quake 4 is a decent game in every category and its pretty fun if you 
 don't mind the framerate suffering a little bit and the okay graphics it will be a fun experience, 
 if can't get pass that you should at least rent it to check the game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killa-k
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  I'm glad that i rented this game first b4 buyin' it, first off i'm not that much of a big Quake 
 fan but i played Quake 3 on PS2 and i liked the multiplayer that it had. I rented the game and 
 i was very disappointed, first off u either have 2 play online or have sum1 lug over their 360 
 2 ur house so u can play multiplayer, second the sound with the voices suck u can barely hear what 
 the guys r sayin'. I say b4 u buy the game unless ur a die hard Quake fan rent it first b4 u regret 
 it in the long run, and don't say i didn't warn u first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: subhouse1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The frame rate issues on Quake 4 are few and far between. I noticed the frame rate problems with 
 Half Life2 are much worse and happen repeatedly throughout the game. 
  
  This game really should have had a split screen mode. Also the lobby system on Xbox live needs 
 a little work but the play online is excellent. I am completely addicted to the multiplayer and 
 the only put off is the afore mentioned lobby problem. Hopefully they will stay on top of this 
 and put out a patch for it soon. 
  
  Single player was great. I enjoyed it quite a bit. It has an excellent story which is interesting 
 and challenging. I had alot of fun playing this game and it really deserves a better review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Activision can make some pretty good fps games. This is my first time actually playing this game. 
 Quake 4 looks crazy man and what I mean by crazy is the way the game starts when you see this soilder 
 coming into the picture and all of a sudden when you get to see the whole picture the guy half 
 torso is missing and half is face is gone. All you see this bodies flowing in space it's crazy 
 man. Than you're on this spaceship heading to this planet to waste off these things half man half 
 machine half monsters. It's just out of this world. The graphics are on point and the guns look 
 off the hook. If you're in to sci-fi fps game than you'll definitely enjoy this game. I have call 
 of duty 2 from activision and being that this game is from the same company I knew I would enjoy 
 playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot Reviewer Has it All wrong.
  Never Believe a review on a console game, especially when the guy starts talking about a keyboard 
 and mouse. Some people cannot adapt to anything but what they've been using since, Doom1 or maybe 
 even Wolfenstein3D!!!
  No matter what the Die Hard PC guys say the Mouse IS NOT BETTER.
  When I play a Console Shooter, I'll be Strafing all over and snipe ya from 200 yards Away. What's 
 so hard about the Controls... I don't get it.
  Maybe it is better for you, but the statement that it is Better is not a FACT.
  As soon as they 
 make a game that is Online Cross-Platform Compatible, then I'll Whoop your Booty with my Dual Analog 
 Sticks. PS2, XBOX... Doesn't matter.
  
  I Play PC Games and Console Games, so I'll Try to give you a more "Real Guy" Review.
  
  First 
 Off the Controls are absolutely fine. If you've played any other console shooter, then you'll be 
 right at home with Quake 4. The Controls Feel just like Halo and Halo2 or Killzone (3 Top all time 
 shooters) .
  
  The Graphics Look Crisp, They don't Top Doom3 on XBOX by leaps and bounds, but they look good.
 
  The Next Gen Part comes in the form of everything else.
  The A. I. is better.
  The Open ended environments are way cool. Doom3 only had closed in Arenas (Hello Wolfenstein3D 
 for you oldschool gamers) .
  The 1st Level is a great example; You are in a Trench the Planet is wide open with a cannon of 
 to one horizon, and a Huge Mech Walking around on another. The Open Environments make the game.
 
  
  The Sound, especially if you have a good sound system are sweet.
  
  If your looking for a good shooter then you'll be happy with your XBOX360 because there are 3 of 
 them here at Launch. I enjoyed Quake4, Perfect Dark Zero, and Call of Duty, all for different reasons. 
 Any of the 3 are quite enjoyable.
  
  Oh Yeah... Forgot the Downside;
  Just like Doom3, the Multiplayer in this one is nothing more than standard fare. Nothing Terrible, 
 but nothing Spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hypnofear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Intro:-
  
  Quake 4, its certainly taken its time in getting here, it has been 6 years since Quake 3 Arena 
 was released. Quake 4 though has more in common with Quake 2, in that it has a fully devolved single 
 player mode and the multi-player takes more of a backstage role. This is the exact opposite of 
 Quake 3 which was basically multi-player only and had no storyline whatsoever. 
  
  Quake 4 puts you in the role of Matthew Kane, a member of the elite Rhino squad who are involved 
 in the attack on the Strogg planet Stroggos.
  
  Gameplay:-
  
  Gameplay is firmly in the love/hate column for those looking for a good old fashioned pick the 
 gun up and shoot the monsters, youre going to have a blast, the weapons are great, some of the 
 old favorites returning including the Railgun, Nailgun and Hyperblaster. 
  
  There are loads of monsters to shoot down, some of the best returning from Quake 2 but now looking 
 a lot meaner and there are some nice new ones too. Sadly for those looking for that something new 
 and innovative, apart from a few vehicles being added to spice things up, youre going to be disappointed, 
 this is Quake exactly as it always has been, in fact playing Quake 2 (which comes on the bonus 
 disc included) makes you realise just how much the gameplay has not changed over the years, but 
 if it is not broke dont fix it.
  
  Graphics:-
  
  First of all lets get it out of the way, yes this game has an un-steady framerate and is not as 
 smooth as other launch titles like Perfect Dark Zero and Call of Duty 2, but please note that these 
 framerate problems have been greatly over-exaggerated by a lot of reviewers. From my experience, 
 apart from 1 or 2 moments in the second half of the game, the game was always very playable and 
 the framerate did not distract greatly from the experience. 
  
  I must mention how good the lighting effects are in this game, when youre indoors youll see an 
 vast array of great lighting effects, from your team mates torches, to fancy Strogg environments 
 and machines, plus the artwork and imaginary gone into these sections is fantastic and a lot more 
 varied than those found in Doom 3 (the game which graphics engine this game runs of) , outside environments 
 do not look as impressive as indoor, but do there job.
  
  Sound:-
  
  Not outstanding but consistently good, the voice acting is very solid, nothing brilliant but the 
 chatting with teammates and various ambient sounds do help build up the atmosphere of the game 
 and place tension in the war between the humans and the Strogg. The weapon sounds meaty and suit 
 what they are (especially the Nailgun) .
  
  Multi-player:-
  
  Basically think Quake 3 Arena but running on the Doom 3 engine with some weapon changes and youre 
 more or less there, I was a massive fan of Quake 3 Arena so in my opinion this is great fun and 
 certainly worth playing online. 
  
  My only complaints are the limited number of maps (download content is supported so maybe more 
 in the future) and the match making system leaves something to be desired, in some cases the loading 
 of matches actually lasts longer than the match itself, which is not a good thing. 
  
  Yes it may feel a little dated, but its great to pick up and play due to its simplistic nature, 
 and the thrill of a well placed Railgun shot cannot be replaced.
  
  Overall:-
  
  Overall youre going to get an enjoyable single player experience that will last you a good 10 
 hours, a simple pick up and play multi-player and a fantastic bonus in Quake 2. 
  
  The graphics might not be as smooth as I would have liked but do not make the game unplayable in 
 any way. The multi-player isnt as well developed as Quake 3 Arena but I was not expecting it to 
 be in the first place. 
  
  Overall its a good launch title thats certainly recommended to those looking for simple shooting 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  I was going to buy this a month ago but held off because i kept hearing reports of extreme lag. 
 You would be in the middle of a gun fight and suddenly the game would slow to a few frames per 
 second.
  
  I wished i had just bought it now as i got it for Christmas and spent all day playing it at one 
 time i went 5 hours straight and experienced no lag.
  
  Sometimes when you are in a large environment with ships landing and Strogg attacking you then 
 you find the game slows a little but all in all this happens a couple of times.
  
  I can only assume the memory leak reports are being blown up by PC fanboys that think Quake 1 & 
 Doom 1 are the best games in the world. Rant over.
  
  Anyway the graphics are built on the same engine as Doom3 and they look amazing. The sound of the 
 weapons firing is crystal and no i don't have 5.1 i just have a Digital Sony TV and so if it sounds 
 good on mine .....
  
  Gameplay is great, every now and then you get a couple of guys follow you to help you on your mission 
 and keeping them alive will provide you with gamerpoint unlocks. 
  
  Its a perfect balance in every way and yes i do agree in places there are problems but not enough 
 to stop this game getting an A+. Well Done :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drdrillnfill
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  I think an over all score of 6.6 is pretty bad. If PDZ is in the 8-9 range, Quake deserves to be 
 in the 7.5-8.5 range. I have played about 3 hours of it so far and have had only 1 frame issue 
 that lasted a whole 2 seconds. Besides that it has been a pretty good experience. Many cool weapons, 
 tons of fast pace in your face action that many othe fps dont live up to these days. Game play 
 is easy to learn and the story isnt bad at all. I havent gone online yet but I heard its not to 
 shabby. Dont be fooled, this game is a good one. A great one.... no but still a good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspownertheone
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  the quake series is one of the most dominate fps out there, and when your a fan it's hard to believe 
 that this game is mediocre. The graphics are not that great, looks like a xbox1 game, Halo2 looke 
 better along with doom3, the framerate on this game is very slow, i don't know why there isn't 
 anything impressive on the screen to slow it down, but if your a true fan then you would like this 
 game. Go with COD2 or Perfect Dark, even Condemed just don't pay 60.00 for this game if your not 
 a fan and experienced with the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oztiger
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  I loved this game from the moment i put it in. The story mode keeps you wanting to play, and the 
 online multiplayer is fast paced and intence. I loved how you could walk around the ship and talk 
 to people. Although i wish it would have been more rpg like and you could do side quests on the 
 ship. But other than that it is a must buy for fps fans. I have no clue how it only got a 6.6 and 
 pdz got a 9.0 its complete B. S. Its more fun online has a more intent storyline and is based on 
 a popular P. C. game. It dosent keep better than this for a new 360 shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterHaloChic
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the most dissapointing titles for the 360. It is an exact copy of Quake 
 4 on the PC. The graphics could have been waaaay better and the AI is OK, but not great. The story 
 was pretty long though, and it was intresting, since I don't have the PC version, but I tried it 
 at my friend's house and it was exactly the same. The gameplay wasn't that great and the controls 
 are bad when you need to reach them quickly. Multiplayer was not as good as i'd hoped it would 
 be, and the charecters are limited. No particularly good cutscenes and sometimes it does not flow 
 and mix well with the storyline. I'd just rent it first and see if it fits your taste, but I highly 
 doubt it. You dont have to take my word for it, but save your money for PDZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  quake 4 truly could have been a classic. The gameplay is very fun nd has pretty good online games. 
 The framerate issue is over hyped but it is there. The game will slow down but onlu when your under 
 heavy fire. The graphics arre better then current console but below par for the 360. The weapons 
 look and play awesome and the sound is good as well. I would reccomend this game highly. It is 
 a fun game that you can enjoy easily. A++++ two thumbs up! BUY THIS GAME BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY 
 IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2nd_II_None
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was sooo much better on the PC but for those who dont have a powerful enough 
 computer, or simply, dont have a computer, this would be your Xbox 360 savior until Halo 3, or 
 something better. The game plays well enough that it deserves a good 8 out of 10 gameplay, but 
 the graphics are stunning, though they are 360 standard. The real story is the Xbox Live gameplay, 
 that is where you must go for the maximum amount of gameplay satisfaction, or just to make fun 
 of 12 year olds with too much money or parents who dont care about their well being. So go buy 
 this game if you have money enough NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fulltime_Killer
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Alright first of a 6.6 is a little harsh. The frame rate only slows down in huge battles or vechial 
 sections. But this game is fun. The single player has a uniqe story with some cool squad play. 
 You get to use a ton of weapons that also get upgraded along the way. The multiplayer is fun but 
 only online. It is fun and fast pace though. This game dose also include Quake 2 which is a great 
 game. Over all if they would have cleaned up the frame rate it would have been a great game. Rent 
 it first unless you love Quakes style of multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardaukar87
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This Game appears as the the bad copy of Doom3!!! The graphic is very bad and the frame rate is 
 always very slow!!! This could be good for a pc-game but for this new generation is absolutely 
 unbelieveble have product like this! The ID made a perfect work introducing a graphic standard 
 all new thanks to doom3 but they would think about this game wich don't use as weel as other launch 
 game the power of the Xbox 360... also the sound is terrible: in certain moments it's impossible 
 hear a dialogue or the voice of an officer.... I think that beforce buying it you could test its 
 demo or rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomadknightz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  It's not the same anymore. Playing Quake 4 IS ,like Ryan McCaffrey said "seeing Micheal Jordan 
 in a Wizards jersey." It's just not the same, and with many advances in the next-gen counsel, ID 
 software just couldn't hack it. Though, some part of the game are fun though. The graphics are 
 okay, but not the best. The sounds seems to be loud at time, and sometimes not. Don't get me wrong, 
 it is a great game to play, but it just wasn't ready for the 360. If your just looking to add some 
 points on your achievements, this is a good game to rent. In about 8 hours i got about 500 achievement 
 points. The game is too easy even on General or even Lieuntenant. Playing it on Lieutenant is like 
 playing Secret Agent on Perfect Dark Zero. Though out the game, you just go through the motions. 
 OHHH!!! And of course, how can i forget. It has horrible framerates. After ever level, which there 
 are alot, it has to load. It was okay... for the first five minutes. Well, i guess you can go to 
 the little (wo) mens room, or grab a snack then come back and press A to start the level....
  
  You start off as a new Marine in a new war to fight against the Strogg on the planet Stroggos. 
 The first act has you fighting with the Marines at your side. It's good to keep your medics and 
 vipers safe, they will give you full healthand armor when you need it. In the second act, the majority 
 of the time you are on your own. The second act starts right when Kain, your character, gets abducted 
 by the Strogg and gets and nice little make over. They cut off his legs, replace them with others 
 and a new armor, to make your health and armor reach 125.... The variety of guns are pretty cool, 
 they have the machine gun, lightning gun, shotgun, nailgun and lots of others. Plus, you can get 
 mods for every gun that you have. Just find them. The end boss is interesting because the way it 
 fights ;) , if your going to to play it, i don't want to spoil it, so find out yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewmickey14
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The Quake series has always been known of being one of the best multiplayer games around. Heck, 
 it's the featured game at Quakecon and for good reason. The game provides fun, fast and brutal 
 gameplay in multiplayer that never gets old. The weapons are also a highlight in the game as each 
 one has it's strengths and weaknesses. Now with the newly released Quake 4, Raven and ID go all 
 old-school on the game with the same multiplayer as Quake 3. But, the real new addition is the 
 actually GOOD singleplayer.
  You are Matthew Kane, part of a resistance military group against the Strogg, cybernetic monsters 
 made of wires and steel wanting to take over earth as we know it. The story goes on a nice pace 
 as it intoduces new monsters and characters. My personal favorite character in the game is Srauss, 
 his voice sounds so creepy in some missions it's great. The real twist on the story is that *spoilers* 
 You are captured and turned into one of the Strogg, but your marine buddies save you before you 
 are turned into one completely*end spoilers*. It's kinda cool to watch this scene as it's both 
 gruesome and entertaining (show your girlfriend) .
  The gameplay in Quake 4 is your typical shooter. You got your  
 launcher and more. The best weapon has to be the Dark matter go though since it looks so cool and 
 can just rip through enemies like nothing (also check out that rotating ball on it, it's mezmerizing 
 *drools*) . The enemy AI is decent depending on Strogg. Some will, use tactics and use cover, while 
 others just stand and shoot. I have to say the AI on your side is pretty good. The use tactics 
 and actually are useful (especially the marines that recharge your health and armor, so keep those 
 guys ALIVE) .
  Ok there has been some debate on the graphics of this game and I'm here to settle it: They look 
 good in most spots but the framerate can get bad at times and some areas look down right UGLY. 
 Thankfully there aren't too many spots where it looks ugly but the framerate can get annoying especially 
 in a game like Quake. I have to say that the lighting is top-notch and the animations for most 
 of the characters is decent but we expect more from a next-gen game. We can still hope for a patch 
 in the future to fix these problems but still this is nowhere near as good looking as games like 
 Condemned or PDZ.
  The sound in the game is good overall. The voice acting is decent and all the weapons sound like 
 they should ( oh man the dark matter gun sounds sweet) . The enemies all talk to each other which 
 is good, but sometimes gives away their postions which is cheap. Lastley, it's kind of odd that 
 Kand never speaks in the enitire game even though people are asking him all these questions.
  Overall, Quake 4 is a solid FPS with some problems. If you are into the "run and gun" type of gameplay 
 then this is the game for you. The multiplayer is good as well, but sometimes suffers from lag 
 and you can only play up to 8 players in one game but still at the the end of the day it's fun. 
 Also on a side note the game ships with some bonus contenet including Quake 2 which is very cool. 
 So, overall, Quake 4 is a solid shooters that fans should check out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mentalicca
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game. I am playing it on a standard television and have seen nothing but 
 great graphics. I have had maybe one frame rate dop if any. The weapons are really well balanced, 
 and the single play is smooth. My only true issue is with the multiplay... it is fun, but only in 
 small doses. It is too fast paced, and rally has no point to aim. My suggestion is if you love 
 first person shooters, buy this game. If you want nothing less than the next Halo, go stand in 
 line outside your local gamestore for the next few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  The Quake series of sci-fi first-person shooters has always had a fairly sketchy history on console 
 platforms. It has often represented the pinnacle of PC graphical capabilities, but translating 
 those high-end graphics to affordable, mass-market consoles has usually proved to be a tough process. 
 That trend continues with Quake 4 for the Xbox 360. Despite the 360's stature as the most powerful 
 console on the market, it just can't keep up with this game's demanding visuals (which probably 
 speaks more to the lackluster quality of the game's translation from the PC than to the system's 
 power, judging by how well the 360's two other first-person shooters look by comparison) . Quake 
 4 is a compelling game, but when saddled with an extremely unstable frame rate, it's tough to recommend. 
 
  
  Contentwise, the Xbox 360 version is similar to its PC counterpart. The single-player campaign 
 is lengthy and fairly varied. The multiplayer has been cut back to an eight-player maximum, as 
 opposed to the PC version's 16-player matches, but that's still enough to make the maps feel populated. 
 The only real difference is in visual quality and performance. When running on a modern PC, Quake 
 4 looks fantastic, using the Doom 3 engine to display the alien world of Stroggos in a sharp, defined 
 level of detail. A quick look up at the sky or at most of the game's wall and ground textures shows 
 that the Xbox 360 version has significantly muddier textures. In addition, the frame rate is sort 
 of a mess. Any time the action gets heated in a large or complex-looking area, the game starts 
 to spin down to a surprisingly low frame rate, regardless of whether you're playing in HD resolution 
 or on a regular TV. At some points, it gets so bad that the whole game starts to slow down, as 
 well. You'll know when that's happening because the rate of fire on your weapons slows way, way 
 down. Even when there's no action onscreen, just viewing the environments is enough to make the 
 game run at a noticeably choppy rate. While there are still some cool-looking areas, the frame 
 rate troubles drag down the entire experience. 
  
  Quake 4 also comes with a bonus disc, packed right into the case in a paper sleeve. The majority 
 of the bonus disc contains a variety of trailers and gameplay footage from the game's development. 
 The key inclusion, however, is a fully playable Xbox 360 version of Quake II. While it doesn't 
 get online, it supports up to four players via split-screen and 16 over system link. It plays quite 
 well with the Xbox 360 controller, and the silky-smooth frame rate is in stark contrast with Quake 
 4. It's a very cool bonus. 
  
  The three previous Quake games have all had very little to do with one another. The first game's 
 story almost felt more like a retelling of Doom, dealing with inappropriately opened portals that 
 spew out all sorts of horrific demons. Quake II ditched that storyline in favor of an Earth-versus-alien 
 conflict that had you crash-landing on the alien homeworld in search of revenge. Quake III Arena 
 was multiplayer focused, with no true single-player storyline other than that a wide collection 
 of warriors -- some taken from the Doom and Quake games -- had been pulled out of their own timelines 
 and into this futuristic battle arena. Quake 4 doubles back and picks up where Quake II left off. 
 That nameless space marine from Quake II has apparently killed the Makron, the leader of the Strogg 
 forces, and now it's up to you to get in there and try to finish the job. But, of course, things 
 aren't quite what they seem. 
  
  In Quake 4, you play as a space marine named Matthew Kane, who has recently been assigned to Rhino 
 Squad. In keeping with first-person shooter storyline tradition, Kane doesn't speak, but the marines 
 around you will more than make up for the lack of chatter coming out of Kane's lips. You're the 
 new guy, and some of the squad's even betting that you won't even survive for one day. With the 
 Makron assumed dead, your squad is taking part in an operation to take advantage of the disarray 
 and mop up the rest of the enemy forces on the Strogg planet. But your dropship gets hit and comes 
 down hard, killing a large chunk of your squadmates at the opening of the game. From there, you'll 
 pull yourself up out of the muck and get down to business. 
  
  Eventually, your squad will get extracted back to a capital ship for reassignment. You'll get to 
 explore the ship and meet some of its crew, and then you're back out on a new mission designed 
 to disrupt the Strogg communication network. And the story continues from there. While the story 
 itself isn't particularly gripping, it's designed well enough to keep you interested in what's 
 happening. There's also a potentially interesting plot twist in the game that, unfortunately, was 
 revealed by id Software almost immediately, when the company first started talking about and showing 
 off the game. It's also the crux of a trailer that plays if you leave the game on the title screen 
 for a few seconds. We won't repeat it here, in case you've managed to stay away, because we have 
 to imagine that the twist would have been a lot more interesting if you didn't see it coming. Just 
 know that a few interesting things happen over the course of the game's 10-to-15-hour campaign, 
 but nothing that happens totally changes the way the game is played or anything like that. 
  
  
  In the end, first-person shooters still come down to their armory. In Quake 4, you'll be 
 armed with a fairly standard collection of weapons that may have originated in the Quake II universe -- but 
 that doesn't mean they're all identical. You'll start the game with only a blaster, which has infinite 
 ammo and can be charged up for a more powerful shot. But this quickly gives way to the machine 
 gun, which is versatile enough that you'll probably be relying on it throughout the entire game. 
 That's mostly because the machine gun has a flashlight mounted on it. Even though the game isn't 
 trying to spook you by having enemies jump out of the shadows, seeing better is always a good thing. 
 Plus, lighting up some dark corners is a good way to find extra ammo and armor. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigfatzombie
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 8:47 pm PT
Review:  The Quake series was alaways a good one. But this one, number 4, is not as spectacular as the game 
 play movies would leave you to believe. Its fun but only in small amounts. After a while it gets 
 kind of recitative. The controls for this game are smooth and flow very nicely. The difficulty 
 for this game is hard to decide since the levels of difficulty you can pick from and vastly different. 
 On the easiest level you will fly throught the game like nothing. On the hardest you will be stuck 
 on the same part for hours at a time. You have a squad most of the time and if you keep your medics 
 alive they can heal you. Over all the game is ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nittanylions
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 12, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  At first when I played this game I thought it was going to be bad and I was dead right doom 3 was 
 better gameplay wise and graphic wise. The weapons are much weaker and the shotgun sucks it takes 
 4 shots to kill someone they say you can kill someone at close range in one hit but you have to 
 be 1 inch away from them! The graphics are horrible and the marines and environments look like 
 crap. What was id thinking another horrible id game! Tghis game is even worse than Dead Or Alive 
 4 which is also a horrible game and disgrace to the xbox 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellshocker825
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:24 am PT
Review:  I have never played any Quake games before (i know don't hurt me) but I was a little concerned 
 bout the graphics engine from Doom 3 working in this game (thought it look about the same) but 
 it came out super! With the new 360, Quake 4 looks awesome and still has a eerie evil sense from 
 Doom 3 just by using the engine. The story line is pretty good, although simple, "Earth is fighting 
 a losing war against and alien species and you are Earth's last hope" (Halo 2?) and it fits well. 
 The weapons look great and sounds great to. I love to take a chunk of Strogg and just blast it 
 away. Boss fights are intense and difficult but both fun at the same time. The multi-player is awesome, 
 u can use all the weapons from the game and u can earn awards on xbox live (100 frags, flag captures 
 etc) I believe that Quake 4 for the xbox 360 should have gotten a higher rating so i give it a 
 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mugsy1988
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:54 am PT
Review:  I don't know what gamespot was thinking when they reviewed this game. The frame rate is alright 
 but the gameplay makes up for it. This game is alot better than doom 3 by a mile. Sure if you want 
 better graphics and better gameplay and have a really good computer than go ahead and get it for 
 pc but if u dont and have xbox360 I suggest you don't listen to gamespot's review because the action 
 in this game is worth it. It even comes with a full version of quake 2. The voices do mumble a 
 little when your not looking at the character speaking but I can care less about that as long as 
 you can hear the person. I have seen sum low frame rate but it wasn't that bad, the game is still 
 playable. Little things i did see was when you shoot someone there would be a red spot to show 
 where u shot them and then when u shoot them somewhere else it would be gone. They could have made 
 the game a little more interactive. I still think quake 4 is worth 60 bucks and it sure doesn't 
 deserve a 6.6 rating. 8.6 is more I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eppy105
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  This game really blew me away. It is just so underated it is unbeleivable. The lighting is good, 
 the sound is good, the story is good, and the combat rocks!!!! This is one of the best shooters 
 I have ever played. (And I have played ALOT of shooters, it's my favorite type of games) I was thinking 
 about getting this game about a month, but I thought about gamespot's review and how poor it was, 
 so I sent out a message on the forums asking if I should get it. Almost everyone said yes!!! Get 
 this game. Better then call of duty, and i loved call of duty. better then doom 3, better then, 
 dare I say it, halo. Best 360 game, but it is not perfect. The only problem is the graphics and 
 framerate, but if you dont care about that, go out right now, and pick up a copy of Quake 4!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkorn360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat, this is an amazing FPS port from the PC and id has done it again with Quake. 
 One thing that bothers me is that the review for the PC version is so much higher the Xbox 360 
 version. This, ladies and gents, is bias towards Playstation 3. Anyone who plays this shockingly 
 horrific masterpiece will be stricken by how developed and well done this game is. It's all here, everything 
 you've dreamed of in and id game  orgasms it's all here!) and more. 
 
  
  The story packs a very powerful punch as well as the exceptional multiplayer. When I got this game, I 
 could not put this one down. And after a while you even begin to feel even more excited by the 
 gore and violence than you were in the first place. 
  
  The guns are by far the most impresive things I have ever seen in a video game. These guns are 
 the meanest, most lethal weapons id has come up with-not to menchion the kickass upgrades you can 
 get. But something even more special happens in this game, the main character becomes half strogg 
 and adds an exciting new twist the terrific story.
  
  Maybe not as scary as Doom 3, but definatly a must get for all id fanatics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I am so dissapointed with this game. The rental wasn't even worth 7 bucks!
  
  Quake 4's story didn't even hold my attention, and the online multiplayer menus are painful to 
 trudge through. Making you use the d-pad to navigate menus?! Who came up with that?
  
  Overall, if you like to have fun while playing games, don't buy Quake 4. The PC version may have 
 been okay, but the 360 version was lost in translation. Framerate is frustrating, graphics are 
 below average, and it's just plain boring. While you may get a few kicks out of the online deatchmatches, 
 those kicks will only last you about 20 minutes.
  
  Oh yeah, there's a bonus disk, but I was NOT gonna go there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:12 pm PT
Review:  With being accountable for the Doom and Quake series, Ids a company thats been known for really 
 delivering a strong first-person shooter experience. Its no small fact that the Quake series has 
 always been a constructive series of games when it comes to the shooter genre. So favorable, that 
 some gamers still consider the Quake games to be some of the best first-person shooting games ever 
 created, both online and off. Id continues theyre largely popular Quake series with the release 
 of Quake 4. While this fourth iteration covers familiar territory as far as how it plays, Quake 
 4 just doesnt seem to live up to the eminence of its predecessors. 
  
  While this is the fourth episode in the series, Quake 4 is really a sequel to Quake 2 rather than 
 Quake 3: Arena. Why is this? Well, you could say it has to do with the fact that Quake 3 had no 
 story; its core focus was multiplayer action, almost precisely the same as Counterstrike. Anyways, 
 in Quake 4, you take the role of Matthew Kane-a new recruit in a military force battling the Strogg 
 in a seemingly endless war which as been taken to the planet Stroggos. Within the games first 
 cutscene, youre given information about what happened in Quake 2-how a lone soldier presumably 
 killed the Stroggs greatest threat-the Makron. To make a long story short for Quake 4s storyline, 
 the plot basically involves you fighting your way through wave after wave of Strogg in hopes of 
 delivering a crippling blow to their existence and civilization. There is a plot twist about one 
 third through the games campaign where Kane gets Stroggified. In addition to looking quite freaky 
 after the transformation, Kane will be able to run faster, jump slightly higher and has room for 
 twenty-five percent more health and armor. But other than that one plot twist the games storyline 
 is very pedestrian for a sci-fi shooter. 
  
  In addition to the customary storyline, Quake 4s gameplay itself is very by-the-books. When you 
 first get your Machinegun and start executing anything thats Strogg, youve pretty much experienced 
 what the game offers gameplay-wise. About the only things that spice up the gameplay is that theres 
 the occasional boss battle, a couple vehicle sequences and that some of your weapons will be upgraded. 
 Some of the upgrades your weapons get include extended clips for your Machinegun, better accuracy 
 for the Railgun, homing shots for the Nailgun, and so on. Though these are nice touches, they dont 
 do much to help the game stand up against games like Half Life and Halo. The good thing about Quake 
 4 is that the action is top-notch and its a blast to play. Each of your weapons looks cool, has 
 its own attributes and is quite fun to use. So fun, that once youve got most or all of the weapons 
 youll be wondering which weapon youll want to use to make all that oppose you fall. 
  
  That doesnt mean that the game is easy, it actually puts up quite a good challenge. The enemy 
 AI isnt sophisticated, but they definitely will put you through your paces. While they dont do 
 much other than strafe and shoot at you, they tend to hit you most of the time and some of them 
 are a blast to battle with. And unlike most shooters, Quake 4 isnt one that you can beat in one 
 sitting. With all the enemies youll face and all the environments youll traverse, its likely 
 to take you about fifteen hours to complete the games single-player. When youre done with the 
 games single-player, the next part to tackle is multiplayer, which can only be accessed through 
 Xbox Live, theres no split-screen whatsoever. The action in multiplayer is chaotic and merriment 
 like the single-player, but its more like an update to Quake 3: Arena, which may disappoint some, 
 especially long-time fans of the Quake series. 
  
  One of the first things youll notice about Quake 4, both on the Xbox 360 and PC, is that its graphics 
 are quite good. The game runs on an updated Doom 3 engine, and for-the-most-part, it comes off 
 looking really slick. Stuff like lighting, textural detail and particle effects like smoke and 
 explosions also look great. That said, theres not much variety to the games environments. Youre 
 mostly just gunning down enemy after enemy in several interior levels that are mostly just made 
 of steel walls and doors. Also, some of the character models look rather synthetic and a few outdoor 
 levels look somewhat grainy and not so next-gen. Now, one issue thats been addressed several times 
 is Quake 4s framerate on the 360 version. While the framerate may have a high sensitivity feel 
 to it, the camera only gets nasty when theres a lot going on at once. But throughout most of the 
 game the framerate remains steady and doesnt get in the way too much. 
  
  As for the games audio, Quake 4 is fully loaded. The music is typically a faint orchestral-like 
 tune sampled and mixed to make it sound more suspenseful and help compliment the games thrills. 
 As for the voice-acting, Quake 4 is pretty standard-featuring believable marine voice-overs but 
 also a few annoying characters like Strauss. Yet the part that Quake 4s audio really shines is 
 in the games sound effects. Each gun sounds dissimilar to the next and the sound effects compliment 
 the weapons perfectly. The Machinegun has a loud clinging noise that sounds like a bunch of fences 
 being smashed and grinded together, which is a joy to hear when you play it. Other weapons like 
 the Lightening Gun, Grenade Launcher and the Dark Matter Gun-which is the games equivalent to 
 the BFG, are also worthy of mention for excellent sound effects. The only real problem with Quake 
 4s sound is that sometimes the lack of music makes a few moments less engaging and the voice-overs 
 are just standard, nothing more and nothing less.
  
  All told, Quake 4 on the Xbox 360 is a solid shooter and while it doesnt break new ground, it 
 does deliver a fun and thrilling experience most shooters seem to miss nowadays. Whether you should 
 buy the game comes down to two things. The first is if you have Xbox Live or not. If you dont 
 have Live then youre not going to get much replay value out of the game upon beating the games 
 single-player. The other is that if you have Live and youre a long-time Quake fan then ask yourself 
 if youre willing to deal with an almost exact replica of Quake 3s multiplayer only with a few 
 upgrades. If you have Live and this is your first time experiencing Quake 4, then youre likely 
 to find a lot to enjoy in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JetStreak
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:34 pm PT
Review:  The graphics in this game is amazing. I absolutely love them.. The game is so interactive - the 
 story is just perfect. Every mission fits in with the cut scenes so well. The multiplayer is Fantastic. 
 I can't understand why no one like this title. 
  
  I must say that I have all of the 360 Launch Titles - and this is one of my favorites.. right up 
 there with PGR3, PDZ and CallofDuty 2.
  
  The only thing that Kind of Annoys me is the lack of people that play this on XBOX Live.. I absoultey 
 love the multiplayer - it's addicting, solid, and very equal on both sides of the field.. 
  
  I recommend this 2 anyone who owns a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobber99
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  So I bought this game because my friend made me. We both played Quake 3 on the computer a lot and 
 while we figured that the online play mechanics and graphics would be simmilar - this game has 
 seriously rocked my socks off! Yes indeed - online this is Quake 3! Needs more levels and ID better 
 offer up paid or free downloadbale content in the form of new multiplayer levels!!! I'd pay....
 
  
  The menu interface is clean and responsive - sorely lacking in most 360 and 180 titles to be sure.
 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic! The enemy Ai can be a bit dumb at times, however don't judge this until 
 you have played on the most difficult setting - they get a lot smarter - not just more of them...
 
  
  The graphics are mind blowing! The level design is first rate and probably the very best asset 
 to the campaign mode to be sure.
  
  This is a fantastic title! I had to put it down multiple times only because I was scared to death 
 at points in the campain. Wow!
  
  The sound desgin - especially in 5.1 is fantastic! More games need to look at the likes of Quake 
 4 and Call of Duty 2 for sound design tips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkyfarts333
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 24, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the worst ID game yet. It looks like ID didn't even try on this one. Quake 
 4 for the PC used the Doom 3 engine but the improved version of it. Now the Xbox tried to pack 
 all of that in the Xbox 360. I was expecting it to run much better than the PC version, but I guess 
 the Xbox itself isn't up to snub. I think that fans were also expecting something better than this. 
 The multiplayer isnt good because it is pretty much the same thing as Quake 3 Arena but w/ bad 
 frame rates. If you're a big shooter fan and left to decide between the PC and Xbox version, I 
 would strongly recommend to get the PC version (if your PC is high-end or extreme) . If not, than 
 you might want to upgrade because Quake 4 on a nice PC is going to look alot better than the one 
 on Xbox 360. I think that the ID fans were very disappointed by this failure 
  
  The worst about the Xbox 360 version is the price. You can get Quake 4 for Xbox at about 50-60 
 bucks. But you can get the same thing for the PC for about 35-40 bucks. It's your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeonLizard
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 provides a fun 1 player story mode with some great action and awesome weapons but it does 
 miss a few oppertunities at utter greatness. Why is there no 4 player multiplayer!!!!! I like to 
 play with my friends on my xbox!!! The addition of quake 2 with 4 player support is an awesome 
 bonus and I enjoy it emensly. Why didn't they add that!!!! Argh! That said this game deffinately 
 shouldn't have been ragged so much. With a little bit of work and some added features this coulda 
 been a bang on dare I say "awesome" game but instead it's an enjoyable 1st person shooter. Kudos 
 for quake 2 and the wicked weapons, non coolness for the lack of co-op or multiplayer offline. 
 Hey give it a try it's worth that at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StArKaStiK
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't bad at all..... for a pc port. I rented it yesterday and played it all day today. 
 The story is great, BUT this game does have its flaws. First off with the graphics, its not next-gen 
 so dont buy this expecting the graphics to blow you away because it will not, to me the graphics 
 are from an Above Average Xbox Game. Second, the frame rate drops very bad in some areas, but very 
 few. Finally the game to me is just way to repetitive, it has a "go there, shoot this, kill that, 
 turn this on/off" type of feel, thats all you do in the game. Oh and the vehicle missions are way 
 too... oh do you put this.. they aren't fun at all, very boring, and have already been done before. 
 Don't buy the game unless your a HUGE fan of the quake series, but if your looking for a game to 
 rent for the weekend, this isn't a bad rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukette
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  this is a very fun game in my opinion. everybody knows how good doom 3 looked and this uses that 
 engine so you know it's gonna be good. the graphics might not quite be next gen but they're not 
 bad. it has some pretty creative weapons that are upgradable and the online play is also quite 
 pleasing. this is a very fast paced game but there is some slow down during big battles but i don't 
 think you can call it a bad game because of that. this is a game that will hold your interest for 
 quite a while. and i can't think of anything more pleasing then blasting away at strogg on mars. 
 can you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 was indeed a qick port from the pc to get it out before the Christmas rush. But, it still 
 has great textures, although a shaky framerate, and fun gameplay. The shooting was also intense 
 and the sound wasnt bad. Sure its not something that we havent seen before (Doom) , but its not 
 bad. It should have gotten a higher score considering some of the other games that have been given 
 the same award. The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe was awarded a 6.9. 
 How the frick did it get a better score than Quake 4. There is no way. This is the end of my rattling. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostNC360
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a highly addictive game. This is a game that true gamers have been waiting for since 
 Halo 2. Not only does this game have a great story line that sucks you in for hours but it also 
 has a fast action multi player on Xbox Live as well. In the story mode, you get to fight along 
 side helpful marines for most of the game. Not only that but the amount of weapons to choose from 
 are outstanding. Plus, you don't have to wait until the end of the game to get all the best guns 
 either. Right around the middle you are exposed to the nail gun, hydra blaster, lightning gun, 
 and more. The only problem with this game is its moderately short story mode and the frame rate 
 issue. For those of you who spend hours playing PDZ and COD online, I encourage you to play Quake 
 4 as well. I was amazed at how fast and smooth the multi player was. You can also get the same 
 quality weapons in the multi player as well. Overall the positives in this game outweigh the negatives 
 making it a truly awesome gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dapmediainc
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  Yes, Quake has some serious frame rate issues and I believe thats impart of the developers and 
 not the XBOX360 system. The graphics could be rev up a bit. It seems that it was a bad port job 
 and rushed to market. Beside that, Quake is a very good game to play. Hours and hours of fun. Maybe 
 next year, they will do a better job. Other games like Call of Duty2, Perfect Dark Zero and King 
 Kong plays flawless. Quake on my High-end pc system has frame issues but not doom 3. Go figure 
 same engine same company, but great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisbischel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I dont think that this game deserves the harsh reviews its been getting. I am a quake and doom 
 fan all the way. Quake 4 has good graphics and I could rearly see any fraim rate issues thoughout 
 the whole game but the sound could be better and so could some of the game play. The story line 
 is good and I enjoyed watching myself getting cut up and turned into a Strogg. There are issues 
 with the game that I would not expect from Id such as frame rate and such so I give it and 8.5 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSnakesoul
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  Its an ok game but still needs some stuff. Some missions feel too sort and some missions feel too 
 long and will never end. The game is 100% the same as the computer version so far. 
  
  The game has problems such as framerate and also some bugs and stuck places (places where you can 
 get stuck meaning in awall cant move type) . The framerate only goes over now and then but its really 
 not that bad it cuts in when ever a big battle happens such as your friendlies vs enemies in a 
 large number, but it disappears fast which sometimes becomes a hardly notice thing. Some walls 
 in the game can get you stuck so dont jump along the walls too much and some bugs such as voices 
 seem to occur now and then such as elevator sounds or a door sound over and over in the background 
 might be a enemy but it was making me go insane. 
  
  The story is great which takes place after quake 2 and your friendlies talks about the story in 
 quake 2 now and then just incase you never played it. There are parts when you get to relax and 
 walk around and talk to your buddies and listen to what they think about the war and such and there 
 are times when you can just hold a trigger and relax while it rips apart enemies. 
  
  There are driveable vehicles but the parts with them are sort. The vehicles are ranged from tanks 
 or trucks to other things. 
  
  The game also gives you a squad.... no you cant give them orders but they do follow you and sometimes 
 do a great job killing the enemy but again sometimes they end up being a bunch of fools rushing 
 a hard enemy and all you get to do is say OMG FOOL and watch your ai go flying off a bridge and 
 into a bucket of blood. But they also help you massively such as repair your health and armor without 
 any use limit on them so you can USE THEM 100000000000 times if you wanted OMG WHATS CLOSE TO GOD 
 MODE 2 AI HEALS WITH NO LIMITS FOLLOWING YOU AROUND OMG SWEET!!!!.
  
  Missions are fun but sort or long like i said and some missions are just plain boring. The battle 
 scripts for the AIs (watching an npc kick someone or something cool and never seen) are very poorly 
 done in a way ,some are good but short and some you miss because your across the map trying to 
 see it. Weapons and ammo are hard to come by in the game even if you set it on easy which is a 
 pain and health is way hard to come by when you really need it. 
  
  One mission that is my favorite and which i will share
  
  *DONT READ SOOOOO MUCH INFO AND ALSO 
 BLOODY
  
  One mission is really nicely done even on the xbox 360 it looks nice. The mission places you in 
 a chair with only boxers on OMG THESE ENEMIES TOOK MY CLOTHES. Anyways you get to listen to screams 
 of your fellow soldiers omg nightmares already lol. And all you can do is sit and watch and listen. 
 You can spin your head around and look at the map but nothing much to see .... yet. At start the 
 chair starts to move and you get to see a fellow soldier in another chair infront you go along 
 on the ride...... man you start to think you wish you were him so you can get this over with.... Once 
 you hit a turn you see a cool machine come down on the guy lol ya now i dont wish to be him.. After 
 a min the thing comes up and he is still there ya... your turn, you enter it and only see lazers 
 come by which made me say this is crap if this is how i die lol. After the lazers you move on to 
 the next part .... now this is gory. You get to watch a object get stabbed into your bud and watch 
 him scream... now its your turn.... SCREAM lol, when your done you get to see a hole in your stomach 
 area ya i think they just too your baby.. oooo wait your a guy nvm. After that its just more and 
 more fun. 
  
  This map made the game fun to play because it makes you want to kill them all for what they do 
 to you. But the map was short and i wanted to see more. But o well.
  
  Over all after my long walkthrough lol ok game. Rent first and then go from there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Standard_222
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:13 pm PT
Review:  It's true that the game has a tendency to slow down in a few parts, but not enough to ruin the 
 game experience. In fact, throughout the whole game I only counted about 3 or 4 times the framerate 
 dropped and there wasn't even that much going on to slow it down. Which says that it's probably 
 a port problem rather than the software or the 360 hardware. Still, Quake 4 is one of many games 
 to come that uses the Doom 3 engine and does so wonderfully. It looks just as good as it's computer 
 counterpart and plays well with a controller feel. The gameplay sound is great, although the character 
 voices are a bit low and the addition of vehicles brings a whole new aspect to the engine. The 
 length is about average to a first person shooter, (8 to 10 hours) , and the boss fights are predictable. 
 For a good old classic shooter with great visuals and effects, Quake 4 delivers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndrewP204
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The new quake game is more than a renter it is I think one of the top five title for the 360. Even 
 though as pointed out the gameplay lags somewhat during some spots in the game, it still is a great 
 game. All around this is a great first person shooter with a good mix of nostalgia and some new 
 upgraded gameplay. This is a great game and if you haven't played this yet, it should probably 
 be close to the top of your list. I think its a great game and it is a great title for the xbox 
 360 in its 2 month launch window. Defenitly on to pick up right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtDuty
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Single Player
  
  The game when it comes down to it is not as scary as doom 3, but running around in level's with 
 just nasty things everyware can kindive freak you out. When your mabe 3-4 hours into the game the 
 Strogg (the enemys/aliens/weird ugly looking guys) capture you and turn you into one of them. To 
 get the point the chop you up like mince meat and then re-build you like one of them. Your on a 
 bed/chair thing and your traped on a convaerbelt and they make you a Strogg and you whatching it 
 in First-person, also it is somthing that is along the lines of giving you nightmares about. But 
 were done with the scary stuff what's good about the game and why should you buy it. The graphics 
 are great (if your in HD) it is for the most part smooth running , it sometimes slows down to a 
 lower frame rate (DOESN"T happen alot) . There are a couple of future vehicles to hop into. Also 
 although most missions you are alone some missions you have squad members. There are about a good 
 selection of weapons and sometimes they are upgraded by squad members. There is not alot of outside 
 levels, but when your outside it is better than being in rooms where the Strogg can surprize you. 
 But the outside levels require you to be in vehicles, but they are still fun too. And the game 
 comes with Quake 2. Overall Single Player wise the game is ABOVE AVERAGE. the game is around 10 
 1/2-11 1/2 long, there is not a good replay value one the single player.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer is where the game shines (not realy because the levels aren't exsacly bright) . 
 The maps consist of some Quake 2 maps, (I think Quake 3 maps too ,but I am not sure because I never 
 played Quake 3) most weapons from the single player (the Rift Gun I don't think is online because 
 I have never played with it online) . It is 2-8 players online, it should have a higher amount players, 
 but it doesn't. But when it comes down to it the multiplayer is some of the best on the Xbox 360 
 launch line up. Overall if your not frightened by any of the gore I would PICK THIS GAME UP. 
 
  
  Note: this review is from my website their for if you read the review on my website it will be 
 quite similar to this one because they are the same! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschool12790
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 9:11 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a magnificent game. With great sound, graphics, and freedom. It is obviously one of 
 the best, if not the best, launch title for the Xbox 360. With a multitude of weapons and many 
 different kinds of enemies to fight, Qauke 4 is the best of the series. The charcter models are 
 amazing, especially the face models. When they talk is actually looks like they are talking to 
 you. You can walk around a people will be having conversations about random things, you can just 
 walk up and listen to whatever the topic is. The multiplayer on xbox live is also very impressive, 
 though extremely fast paced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I'm really disapointed in some of peoples opinion of this game. They say it lags and that you shouldnt 
 buy it. Because of that I didnt get it right away. On Sunday I couldnt take it anymore. If there 
 is one thing I've learned in the past, never listen to what other people say. And I was correct. 
 I've been playing Quake 4 non stop since I've bought it. To me this is the best game for the 360 
 launch. It's not because it has the best graphics. Cuz it doesnt, Perfect Dark Zero has that honor. 
 It's because of how much fun it is to play. I own PGR 3, PDZ, and Call of Duty 2. Except for Call 
 of duty 2, Quake 4 is the only game I've been playing. I've encountered lots of enemies on the 
 screen at the same time and believe me there is no LAG issues with the game. The 6.6 rating is 
 a rip off of the actual score it should have a 8.5 or better. If you like FPS and scary games, 
 then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PLIEGO
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  ME parece un juego con buenas graficas, el contenido de campaa tambien es bueno y bastante largo. 
 No posee nada nuevo que no hayamos visto en Doom o en Area 51. Encontre como algo positivo que 
 brinde en espaol los dialogos de los personajes, pero casi no se logra oir lo que dicen. Primero 
 alquilalo antes de comprarlo. A mi modo de ver no debe faltar en la coleccin por ser de los primeros 
 juegos para el 360. Considero que el mayor defecto es el audio de muy mala calidad en cuanto a 
 que los personajes hablan pero no se hoyen. la curva de aprendizaje es muy baja por lo que en pocos 
 minutos estas jugando de lo lindo, Los vehiculos le han dado un toque nuevo a Quake 4, Tambien 
 el hecho de incluir un disco de bonus con Quake 2. Es importante tener disco duro para poder utilizar 
 el disco de bonis. de lo contrario no correra en tu consola. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex_dogg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:47 pm PT
Review:  the game is great. there are problems with the frame rate at many points in the game and most of 
 the time you can't hear what the heck the AI characters are saying (it is like the voice volume 
 for the AI characters are at 2 while the rest of the game is set at 10) . with those problems there, 
 the game is still awesome. graphics are awesome, 100x better than you'll find on the old xbox. 
 can save at any point you would like. and has a great selection of awesome weapons. if the problems 
 with the frame rate and sound were fixed, this game would easily have been a 9.5 to a 10 on any 
 web-site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 3.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  Dont waste your time playing this game. I think it might be the worst 360 game yet. But I think 
 Kameo worse. The game isn't just like the other Quakes. It lackes value, gameplay, and worst of 
 all graphics. I swear if you think it looks good well your wrong. I would rather buy the other 
 Quakes than this one. The campaign/story mode in this game is horrible. Dont even think of touching 
 this game if your smart enough. I've seen Early Childhood games better than this game. Elmo could 
 waste this game in ratings.  
 Take my word for it and dont rent or buy or even touch this disgrace for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This game has the right game play buy it lacks in graphics, the fans are desapointed. This game 
 has the right game play buy it lacks in graphics, the fans are desapointed. This game has the right 
 game play buy it lacks in graphics, the fans are desapointed. This game has the right game play 
 buy it lacks in graphics, the fans are desapointed. This game has the right game play buy it lacks 
 in graphics, the fans are desapointed. This game has the right game play buy it lacks in graphics, 
 the fans are desapointThis game has the right game play buy it lacks in graphics, the fans are 
 desapointed. ed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimemo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  the game play itself is fun, exiting, and surprising. However, the were a little shoty and the 
 environment reminded me of Halo 2's graphix, although the people were a little better than the 
 overall environmnt. The story fluctuates a little bit, its exiting at some points and a little 
 ummm "when am i gonna finish this mission". It starts to really pick up when you turn into a strogg, 
 but its weired all you get after your strogg update you only get 25% more health and armore (and 
 even though the strogg get to mellie YOU STILL DON'T GET TO!) . All in all this game deserves at 
 least 7.5 because its actually really fun, but it could have been a lot better. So i give it a 
 solid 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynchnu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 7, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, if and only if you are a fan of first person horror shooters, or have prior experience 
 with Id@ games. Gameplay is much like Doom 3, especially when set on the higher difficulty settings. 
 I would reccomend playing it on the easiest level first then trying it on the higher ones to see 
 how much more fun it is. Multiplayer and Xbox Live are fantastic, which should come to be expected 
 from the "orginators" of shareware gaming :) . Not to mention with surrounded sound comlplete with 
 a subwoofer........ it shakes like an earthquake. Now that I have kissed its arse to death there 
 are some problems, first would be I think that the easiest level setting is just too easy, and 
 might discourage noob gamers from exploring it further. This is an easily corrected issue for the 
 player, but there is an issue that boggles my mind..... Frame rate!!!!! I have played alot of the 
 360 games and they all seem to share the same problem: you would be in regular campaign play then 
 your frame rate plummets to minimal levels..... it is to me equivalent to trying to run an online 
 computer game on a 56k modem and a 28mb graphics card.... Its crazy "laggy". This issue is one that 
 to me is the make or break point of the game. I would suggest renting the game first, and if you 
 dont mind the issue.. buy it. The bonus cd is loaded with cool stuff including Quake 2! But if not, 
 no worries, im sure sooner or later the frame rate issues with all these new games will be  
 DOOM3 ENGINE FAITHFUL :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I just got my Xbox 360 and I picked up Quake 4 along with it. Raven and id pin the tail on the 
 donkey with this one. It's fun, fast, and addictive. Not to mention that it's WAY better than Doom 
 3.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Simple, but still good. Turret and vehicle levels split up the action. I can't really describe 
 it, the gameplay is just fast and spot on. Multiplayer is very fun too. It is more skill with a 
 game-pad than anything about tactics. There aren't too many places to camp, just face-to-face combat. 
 At least in deathmatch.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  First of all, I don't have HDTV. I do have S-video, but since the HD cables in the Premium package 
 don't support S-video, I'm using composite. And it looks amazing. Textures, all of it. It's like 
 watching a high end PC. Yes, I also have one of those. If graphics float your boat, Quake 4 is 
 for you. Yes, the framerate (sometimes) gets unruly, but never to the point where it's unplayable. 
 Watch out, the 360 hasn't even been scratched yet.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The sound is pretty cool. The music is good, the voice acting (which doesn't include any big names) 
 is also very good. The weapons though, sound very powerful and will rumble your house. (If you 
 have a nice speaker setup and crank up the volume.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  The single player game is excellent, and about 11 hours long, and the multiplayer is fast and furious. 
 Even if it's a lot like Quake III. Plus, the 360 version comes with Quake II. You can play the 
 whole single player, and play co-op and deathmatch on split-screen or system link. Lot's of stuff 
 to do here, eh Steve?
  
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  I just really like Quake 4. It's not really innovative, but who cares. It's fun, and isn't that 
 why we play video games? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkury622
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  For those of you still wondering, yes there are some points in the game where the frame rate drop 
 significantly. This didn't occur for me until the second half of the game. Fortunately, this problem 
 occurs only a few times and doesn't last too long. In general, the frame rate isn't very stable 
 .. with small dips here and there... but most of the time it doesn't affect gameplay.
  
  As a fan of arcade style, simple, straightforward games, I can appreciate Quake IV alot. It's not 
 complicated, it's just pure shooting action with a really nice presentation. Having left the PC 
 gaming realm years ago, I think the graphics for this game are very good... very detailed and realistic... especially 
 the characters themselves. The sound is excellent... with awesome sound effects from the weapons 
 and explosions..... and the voice acting is very professional and well done. The sound and physics 
 in the game make the guns very satisfying to use. When you hear the kick of the shotgun and see 
 a Strogg fly back several feet when hit from close range, it just feels good.
  
  Of course, the gameplay is the most important aspect and for fans for arcade action this game doesn't 
 disappoint. The single player experience takes through a fun story with non-stop action. The online 
 multiplayer is smooth (no frame rate issues after several hours of play) , fast paced, and tons 
 of fun as well.
  
  In summary, if you like straight up shooters and can live with a few framerate hiccups, I hightly 
 recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonjj2003
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 7:19 pm PT
Review:  When a game is announced for both the PC and consoles, the question always arises about what's 
 different between the two versions. Did any compromises have to be made on one platform or the 
 other? Did something get lost in translation? As it turns out, the recent release of Call of Duty 
 2 on the PC turned out to be a very accurate preview of what Xbox 360 owners could expect to get 
 from next-generation shooters. Almost everything that makes the PC version one of the year's best 
 shooters remains intact on the Xbox 360 version of the game, which looks just as good and actually 
 runs smoother than all but the most beastly of gaming PCs. If not for the online multiplayer that's 
 limited to eight players, the Xbox 360 version probably would have been hands-down better overall. 
 But as it is, Call of Duty 2 still sets a high standard for any shooters following in its footsteps 
 on Microsoft's new console, and it's considerably faster, prettier, and more exciting than most 
 any other shooter available on consoles. 
  
  
  Call of Duty 2 sets the bar high for Xbox 360 first-person shooters. 
  As in the first PC game, 
 Call of Duty 2's campaign will put you in the shoes of a few different soldiers fighting for different 
 Allied factions. You start off as a private in the Russian army, visciously fighting off the invading 
 Germans in Moscow and Stalingrad. The British campaign is unlocked after beating the first Russian 
 mission. For most of these missions you'll be fighting in the sand-swept deserts of North Africa, 
 alongside the Desert Rats, against Field Marshal Rommel's troops. The final mission in the British 
 campaign sends you to the bombed-out houses and hedgerows of Caen, France. After you're done with 
 that, you'll play as an American corporal in Europe. Yes, you will be doing a D-Day landing, but 
 not on Omaha Beach or Utah Beach, which you've probably played several times before. Instead, you'll 
 be scaling the sheer cliffs of Pointe du Hoc as artillery with the Army Rangers. If you already 
 thought rock climbing was an "extreme" sport, try doing it with artillery and machine-gun fire 
 raining down on you. 
  
  Each of the game's 10 missions is broken up into a few different stages. If you play the game on 
 regular difficulty, you could blow through it in about 10 hours. Ratcheting up the difficulty a 
 notch makes the game much harder and more tactical (this is probably the experience the designers 
 intended) . Since you'll be creeping and peeking more carefully through all the encounters, you'll 
 lengthen the campaign significantly, and you'll enjoy it more. 
  
  Breaking up the campaign into several different narrative vignettes arguably weakens the impact 
 of the plot as a whole, although that was never the strength of Call of Duty in the first place. 
 What this does is let the designers put you in a lot of different, interesting situations. One 
 memorable moment in the Russian campaign has you crawling through a raised pipeline to sneak behind 
 German lines and into a fortified factory building. As you make your way through the pipeline, 
 you'll spot and snipe small pockets of German infantry through holes in the pipe. When they fire 
 back up at you, you'll notice bullets tearing through the rusted pipe, ripping open holes for shafts 
 of light to poke through. It's a thrilling effect. 
  
  You'll also get quite a rush from both participating in and defending against all-out infantry 
 charges across open city squares in Stalingrad. But just as the novelty of these wears off, you're 
 shunted over to the British campaign in North Africa, where you'll do things like participate in 
 night raids of small Tunisian towns, climb up to the top of spires to call in artillery on enemy 
 tanks, and even drive a tank yourself. The American campaign has its own memorable moments, like 
 scaling the cliffs of Pointe du Hoc, or sniping at German mortar crews from the top of a grain 
 silo. The game paces itself so that you're always on your toes, and you'll find yourself switching 
 back and forth almost constantly from an offensive position to making a defensive stand against 
 counterattacks on the objective you've just captured. Yes, at the end of the day you're still just 
 shooting a lot of Nazis, but the constantly varying contexts of how and why you're doing it keep 
 the game compelling from start to finish. 
  
  
  Massive amounts of infantry can populate the battlefield. 
  You won't be participating in these 
 forays alone; far from it. In every setting you'll be surrounded by what seems like dozens of soldiers, 
 both friends and foes, who move and act in a realistic fashion. Lots of your artificially intelligent 
 mates will die by your side, along with the dozens of enemy soldiers you kill, but more will come 
 in from the rear echelons to take their place. The designers often do a good job of reminding you 
 that the war isn't just the infantry skirmish in which you're fighting. From time to time you'll 
 see planes engaged in dogfights flying overhead, or when you complete an objective of capturing 
 a German harbor, you'll call in a naval strike and see enemy merchant ships being sunk at the docks. 
 
  
  In each confrontation, you'll find yourself setting up at logical stopping points to exchange fire 
 with German resistance. You can snipe dozens of enemies out of the windows and from the trenches 
 in front of a house, for example, but reinforcements replace them. It never feels as though the 
 game is cheaply spawning in more fodder for you; it just does a great job of making you feel like 
 there are a realistic number of soldiers holed up in a building. You need to get a feel for the 
 flow of each pitched battle, and this can be done by advancing your line when the enemy ranks look 
 thin enough, and then breaking into the house or bunker. Your allies will follow you in and help 
 you clear out the objective. Of course, if you're too meek at attacking and pressing your advantage, 
 the enemy AI is wily and aggressive enough to take charge. They're not afraid to pour fire on your 
 position and toss tons of grenades at you. Thankfully, a handy grenade danger indicator lets you 
 know when and where you have to scurry away from an impending blast. When you do die, the game 
 reloads very quickly, and you're even treated to a quote about war from various historical figures. 
 One that sticks out in our minds is an ironic one from Solomon Short: "The only winner in the War 
 of 1812 was Tchaikovsky." 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 5, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  First of all the graphics are great, but they due seem a little dumbed down then the computer version. 
 It still looks very good, but doesn't get the release game of the system award. It still runs well, 
 but does have some occasional frame rate drop offs during some of the very frantic fire fights, 
 which the computer version seems to lack. I get the impression that the xbox version was rushed 
 some what in this dept. They could've found a way to get around this, but given the release date 
 times for this game vs. Doom 3, they didn't get the xbox version out until apr of 2005, while the 
 pc version was relased in aug of 2004. Quake 4 was only a month apart. They didn't have the time 
 they were given for doom 3, so I would venture they couldn't work out all the details. Let's hope 
 for updates to these problems. 
  
  The single player game play is very fun. The story picks up right after quake 2 and takes in a 
 very good direction. The characters area little lacking, but fun none the less. You also find yourself 
 out to be an enigma, you have a past and it is a mystery for most of the game. The weapons are 
 something new and old. Pretty standard for the type of game, some powerhouses and some kinda basic. 
 The most interesting was the exchange for the bfg to the dark matter gun. Very interesting use 
 of physics there. The game does keep things interesting and almost always changing. You start the 
 game as a solider as part of unit amidst a war. Over time it goes slowly but surely into a complete 
 horror show as you are shown in many ways what humans are used for by the strogg. Probably one 
 of the more graphic games in existence. The game is fun, pure and simple.
  
  Multiplayer is also fun, but is very old school. No twists, no frills, 100 percent old school, 
 run and gun, blow people up and watch the chunks fly type killing fest. Very fun if you like that 
 type, if not you will not be very impressed. So far xbox live is fun, but seems to like the halo 
 style online system, meaning it doesn't always give you the best connection possible. Sometimes 
 you will get laggy games because of this, but if the connections are good and you have enough people, 
 the games will be intense and fly! 
  
  Overall a good game, intense at times and partially old school. Not for everyone though as the 
 graphic nature of it may offend ano not everyone will love the old school feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: someone543215
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  first of all may i say that the 360 has more than 80 times the processing power than the original 
 xbox and is way more powerful than any computer, it makes me mad about the frame rate, great visuals, 
 but u can actually hear the rate of fire on the rail sequence decrease. It should perform better 
 than any pc and was a bad port to the 360, seeing that a computer processor clocked at 3.2 ghz 
 is more than enough to run the game, and game consoles require way less processing power to run 
 a game than a pc, and the 360 has 3 3.2ghz processors. It makes me sad seeing how bad the developers 
 ported this to the 360, surely the developers didnt intentually plan to release it on the 360, 
 seeing that using 1/2 of 1 of its 3 cores is more than enough to run the game fine, this game disappoints 
 me, and the xbox 360. ARRRRG!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha666
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 on the Xbox 360 is a complete catastrophe. The pc version which only had a few good things, 
 and the majority was graphics and frame rate, was a mediocre game, and now there is an xbox 360 
 version that takes away those good graphics and frame rate, leaving us a completely flawed game. 
 Sound is bad, it all blocks together and screws up leaving major glitches to open up in the game. 
 The voice acting isn't good either. You won't recognize any voices, because they were all taken 
 from the bottom bunk of voice actors. The weapons all screw up with sounds. The sound either moves 
 too fast for the weapon, too slow, or the sound doesn't come on at all. The graphics were great 
 on the pc, but on the 360, the game looks worse than Pariah. How is that possible with a next-generation 
 system? It seems like killzone. At points, graphics are great, at others, they are horrifying. 
 Well at least the great existed for Killzone because it was on ps2, and it's amazing ps2 can handle 
 that, but for god's sake. The 360 handles Quake 4 like a ps2 would. The gameplay is awrful. It 
 slows down so frequently, you can't see straight, you'd be running near an enemy about to shoot 
 them, then, FRAMERATE JAM! You can't even move, it's terrible. Quake 4 already was a mediocre short 
 game, but the 360 version is just bad. Don't ever buy this game! You probably shouldn't even rent 
 it with games like perfect dark zero and call of duty 2. Soon to come PREY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gerstmannownz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 4, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 is an absolute gem. Ok, GameSpot say 6.6. For the first time in my life I can honestly 
 say GameSpot are WRONG. Just play it. Notice the jaw dropping visuals. Notice the frantic multiplayer 
 experience on Live! I have cleared the game and I might add that the remarks made on the slow down 
 of the frame rate are exagerrated to say the least. I noticed slowdown about 5 times in the game, 
 each time lasting for only about 10-15 seconds. Single player is fantastic. Lighting effects are 
 amazing. Just rent it, you'll see what I mean if you don't believe me. You will not regret purchasing 
 this FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troysp1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 2, 2005 4:36 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best visual games that I have seen on console in the past year. It is not 
 as good visually as Call of Duty 2, but still great. Gamespots review compares this version to 
 its PC counter part, and that is not fair to the game or console gamers. For a 360 launch title 
 created with a 60 or 80 percent completed 360 this game is stunning. 
  
  Now the sad part of the game. Loading after you die and choosing your loading spot. You do not 
 die and start over where the last check point was automatically. When you die you must choose your 
 load. When you do you may get lost in where you were in your 10 or 15 saves. Loading period in 
 this game takes away from the overall game experience. When you start to get momentum and move 
 forward and enjoy the game: Boom you are loading. id could have done better with this aspect of 
 Quake 4. 
  
  If you are looking for a good looking game that is frustrating to play pick up Quake 4.
  
  
 Visuals 9.0
  Game Experience 6.9
  
  Overall 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_Whistler
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:11 am PT
Review:  I am appalled with Gamespots review of Quake IV, and most of the 360 titles. Do I dare say these 
 reviewers are anti-Microsoft? You'd think you were reading reviews of Sony and EA fanboys.
  
  The visuals are down right excellent! The only flaw I could find, and it was noted in GS review, 
 was that of the slow framerate. There were times where the frame rate slowed, but not enough to 
 ruin the gameplay. It was just enough to be noticeable. And those times were far and few between.
 
  
  You cant knock ID for using Quake III for Live play, its perfect. The party system is a nice setup 
 for geting with friends and into live ranked games.
  
  This is a definilty must have for FPS fans, espcially for fans of Unreal, Unreal Champtionship, 
 Doom, and Quake!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chrypoper69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 11:54 pm PT
Review:  what can i say about quake 4? well first of all.... it's one the greatest games on anyplatform 
 ( except Super Mario Bros. of course) but that's a whole 'nother type... well graphics are slick 
 and really challange the hardware it was built for... you can see where all that new processoring 
 power for the 360 went. and when you get into an explosion.. you KNOW where it's coming from with 
 the new sorround sound in 360. The graphics are seriously realistic... if u like first-person shooters.... 
 then this game is PERFECT and you should deifinaltely buy it!!!! Even if your like me and never 
 played anything in this series... it's easy to follow the story, and the story line isn't just 
 "there" but you can easily learn to love it. I guess there are three words that easily and accurately 
 describe this game...... and they are... Moving, as in the story and gameplay, Outstanding, as 
 in you can be blown away at a game.. and w/ shooting like this, and Realistic, as in the graphics, 
 and in sound which u know which direction foot steps are coming in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underoathswsfoe
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 29, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4. The 4th part of the beloved Quake franchise you have been playing on your pc for years. 
 You're thinking, "Wow! Quake 4 On Xbox 360?! How can it get any better than this?!" Well, it turns 
 out that Quake 4 on the new xbox isn't quite as impressive as you thought it would be. And here's 
 why:
  
  Single Player:
  
  There is fun to be had in Quake 4's single player, but is it really worth paying 59.99 for? Absolutely 
 not. There are a few memorable moments in the campaign, like manning a turret in a massive vehicle 
 that is mounted in mid-air, and fully blown charging at a gate that is being protected by a smaller 
 army of demonic aliens, but for the most part, the actual first person shooting parts of the game 
 just really aren't all that exciting. Let's start off with the graphics. Bland, un-stylish, and 
 very repetitive textures and visuals that make the PC version look like the God of all games, which 
 is very dissapointing. There is a pretty good amount of weapons, but all of them are just lacking 
 some kind of punch. For example, you will find a few massive machine gun looking weapons throughout 
 the game, then you fire it, expecting loud, brutal gunshots, and instead, you get this quiet little 
 hum and see some unimpressive, small gunshots going at an enemy. This dissapointment leads to the 
 sound. The sound in the game, kind of like what I said about the gunshots, is very weak. Sometimes, 
 you will hear a strong roar of your dying foes, but that's about as strong as it gets. Everything 
 from your footsteps, to the moving of vehicles just all sound very underwhelming. Enviroments in 
 the game pretty much all look the same, and the gameplay gets a bit repetitive, so you will find 
 yourself putting down the controller quickly on this one.
  
  Xbox Live:
  
  Even outside of the box, the game is very unpleasing. Online multiplayer consists of only up to 
 8 players, which gets boring fast, considering most of the maps are too large to fit only 8 players 
 in them. You will find yourself getting lost in some maps, not finding any opponents to battle 
 for virtually, the whole entire game, until the time runs out. Overall, online multiplayer is unexciting 
 and there is now way you should have to pay 10 bucks extra for it.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Quake 4 described in one word is simply, boring. Almost everything in the game is bland and I don't 
 see why the game is 59.99. In fact, I think this game should be cheaper than the pc version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Arbiter4444
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is a great game, it really is, just ignore Gamespot's very picky review for this Xbox360 
 launch game.
  
  The Graphics
  Are pretty solid, they're not mindblowing, but they are pretty good, about what you'd expect from 
 an Xbox360 next-gen game.
  
  The Gameplay
  Does have some frame rate flaws, but most of the time you never really notice them, other than that, the 
 gameplay is fast and can get pretty intense, you also have a good line up of vehicles, like my favorite 
 : The Hover Tank. The guns are freakin' sweet! Especially the Lighning Gun, and the Dark Matter Gun.
 
  
  The Sound
  Ain't bad, it ain't bad at all, pretty great the sound is. it's got plenty of nice effects in there, which 
 makes the experience of the game somewhat realistic.
  
  All in all, this game is just plain fun, and I would reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefanovicho
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit I didn't really like the game on the pc. but the pc version was at least a 8.0. 
 the problem with the xbox 360 version are indeed the graphics.+ the framerate and effects are low 
 and low quality the game is build for the pc you can feel it see it .. and almost smell it. It 
 doesn't play as well as other shooters witch are desgind for consoles like perfect dark....
  the developers should have taken their time and not port the game directly...
  
  this is just 
 crappy, go for perfect dark zero if you are looking for a shooter on the xbox 360
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeymetro
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  I can't believe other people are rating this game a 6. Quake 4 on the Xbox 360 is really creepy 
 and fun. From the moment I put Quake 4 in my Xbox 360 I was impressed. You see a very detailed 
 marines face in the sunlight.
  I was thinking wow look how realistic and good that looks. The marines body starts rotating and 
 you relise it is a dead corpse with a bullet hole through other side of face floating in space. 
 The game has great effects and startles you during game play as creatures jump out and try to kill 
 you.
  I think it is a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEARowns
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Well to be honest with you I was looking forward to playing Quake 4 more than many of the launch 
 titles. Even more than PDZ. I saw this on my buddy's PC and I loved how fast paced it was, and 
 how it was an ideal FPS. I was REALLY tempted to buy it on PC, but had to hold off for a bit until 
 it came out with the 360 launch. Well, enough of the jibberish, lets get onto the good stuff.
 
  
  Quake 4 starts you off as Corporal Kane who is obvioulsy very depended on because right from the 
 start you are sent off by yourself inside enemy territory (gee, doesn't sound like a sterotypical 
 fps) . But, throughout the game your objective is to reground with Rhino Squad (your squad) . Upon 
 regrouping, you usually have Sgt. Bidwell, Lt. Voss, or Tech Strauss along side of you. This is 
 great because, unlike H2 you cant hide and wait for your shield to regenerate. But, if you are 
 with a tech they can replinish your shield as many times as you want, and a medic works the same 
 way with your health. Also, you collect many weapons along the way and can carry tons of them. 
 You are not just limited to one which is actually a must in this game due to the amount of ammo 
 required for some enemies. The gameplay is downright amazing, and is one of the better SP campaigns 
 ive been through. The FRS can slow down at times, but its nothing thats that bad, and is overlooked 
 because its an intense game. I honestly dont know why PDZ was considered more like Halo than Quake 
 4 is. Quake 4 is very much like Halo. Quake 4, however, requires you to be very quick on the trigger 
 because its really a PC game at heart and you all know that PC games are generally faster than 
 console games. But, I recomend this game to everyone. Its a winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHSFed
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:21 pm PT
Review:  With all do respect to the Gamespot review, I will have to disagree completely. I have nearly completed 
 the single player mission and I have yet to see any slowdown whatsoever. If you are a Quake fan 
 you will love this game. The controls are perfect with easy access to weapon swaps and gun lights. 
 The sound... AWESOME!!!. Graphics... AWESOME!!! 
  
  Comparing this version to a PC with a "Good" (not top of the line) graphics card you can hardly 
 tell the difference. The way I look at it is my video card alone cost me approximately $400.00 
 and so did my 360, with my PC I have to ensure drivers (both system and video) are always up to 
 date. With my 360, I sit the disc in the tray and play the game. 
  
  So, to all you quake fans or shooter fans, pick it up and give it a try. Heck you can always use 
 the Gamefly method if you are unsure... you will not be disappointed!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveJ009
Rating: 5.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  From the snappy title of this review, it should be obvious what the reviewer thought of this game. 
 Let's use Stewie Griffin's style of management and have a "complement sandwich". That's where we 
 start with something good, then go to stuff that needs improvement, followed by something good. 
 Alright then.
  The good: Visually, this game is very slick. The player can feel fully immersed in an alien world, 
 complete with alien architecture and machinery. The enemies are well modeled and detailed, with 
 various animations including "death scenes" and close melee attacks. The larger enemies are huge 
 in scope, and during one scene, where one of the giant spider-like enemies walk directly over the 
 player, the sheer scale of the alien was amazing. The machinery and devices scattered about the 
 levels are blatantly not of human manufacture, and all of this helps to create the illusion of 
 "taking it to the alien's house".
  Now, the bad: If you have ever played Doom 3 for the Xbox, this game will look remarkably similiar. 
 So similiar in fact, that when I watched the game being played, I thought it was the expansion 
 pack that is being currently offered with Doom. Yes, ID software created both games. Did they have 
 to use the EXACT SAME ENGINE? I loaded up Doom 3 on the Xbox next to my roommate's 360 (Multiple 
 TV's is sooo nice!) , and found the graphics to be extremely complementary. My understanding was 
 that the 360 is something like at least twice as powerful as the old Xbox! Shouldn't there have 
 been a dramatic leap in graphics? Take the example of the facial features of individual Marines. 
 I was floored by the amount of detail on faces as I played through Doom 3. Honestly, the faces 
 on Quake 4 weren't all that better. In fact, they look the same. This was rather disappointing.
 
  The worst comes next: Gameplay. This game has some of the worst slowdown I have ever seen. Seeing 
 as the graphics CAN'T be stressing the system too much, where is the processing power going? I'm 
 talking about slowdown happening with as few as 4 onscreen enemies/allies at the same time. At 
 the time of this review, I have not personally played multiplayer online, but I have heard the 
 same problem plagues it. Once again, I hate to use an older game as reference, but this was never 
 an issue on Doom 3. What does this tell us? A game that is graphically similiar performs worse 
 on a more powerful system? Makes no sense to me.
  Finally, something good: What is this? They installed a flashlight ON a weapon? You mean, I can 
 shoot and see at the same time? AMAZING! Not to be too crass, but this was a ridiculous feature 
 of Doom 3 that has been improved. Of course, you only have two weapons which have this feature, 
 but since you will be using the machine gun for most of the game, that is alright. Thanks ID for 
 finally getting this right.
  Oh, and the nice plot twist and scene towards the middle of the game was quite surprising. I don't 
 want to spoil it for everyone, but it was a well done part of the game, even if you have limited 
 control. You will see what I mean..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thal3s
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Hey, it's Quake, okay? Either you like Quake or you don't. If you do, you'll recognize this iteration 
 as an evolution.
  
  This is just a massively improved version of Quake. Same thing since Quake 1 - they get better 
 looking and the story lines improve.
  
  This is one has vehicle missions, and some other stuff so it's nto all FPS. It's darker than other 
 Quakes have been (Doom 3 anyone?) but it's fun and sets the standard for FPS action as it always 
 has.
  
  Online multiplayer via Live kicks ass - way faster and more fun that Halo 2 for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Though ive not honestly played Quake 4 I feel had already played much of Doom3/Ress that its all 
 the same. I think its funny how the designer of this game was all supporting the more money for 
 games and this game comes out with crappy scores. It makes me feel like that guy is a punk and 
 should be slapped thats all, he says it in the Xbox360 Launch Games guide if you wanna read it. 
 This game was one of my first reserves but after seeing the less than bland multiplayer action 
 via videos I happily went with Perfect Dark which is a phenominal FPS in all ways. Review based 
 on videos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytdhjnfgbvfjvgd
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:53 am PT
Review:  During months ago, the PC version came in it was a great game to recomend to many fans of the Quake 
 series. Today the XBOX 360 version of the game came out, however it is pretty bad based on graphics, 
 replay value and the multiplayer. So if you played the PC version of the game, please do not buy 
 this game. First, lets start with the gameplay. The gameplay is the same thing as the PC version, 
 so why buy this if it is $50. Second, the graphics are horrible compared to any game because the 
 game has a lot of bugs such as your movement slows down almost all the time. The sound of the game 
 is average scary images. The voice acting is fine, and soon the spooky noises that enimies show 
 that they are next to you is quite predictable. The replay value is quite low because of the multiplayer 
 and graphics, though the single player is long (about 15-20 hours) . The multiplayer is the same 
 to Quake 3, such as the maps and voices. So if you want to play this game, play the PC version 
 of the game, rent the XBOX 360 version or wait till a price drop comes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theraddestman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  yeah from what i played it was good but like it should have been alot better i mean its quake i 
 cant say that enough quake is and awsome game i just dont understand why i turned out like this 
 but in all its still good the reason i tilt it so high is cause that fact that im a quake fan so 
 any one who is reading this should read others to cause im not the most trusted guy just cause 
 im to much of a quake fan but if your like me youll get over some of the down and willl still like 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 26, 2005 9:09 am PT
Review:  This is an killer system, whats wrong here? I love the doom scary shooter style game, but this 
 is slack. Don't get me wrong I have crazy fun with it. So far doom I think is creepier. The graphix 
 are not all that and the frame rate sux. The graphix are good but could have been great. To get 
 your money out of it you have to play on the hard setting. I like the game alot, I was dissapointed 
 at first but I have a lot of fun now. Turn the lights off and crank the sound and break'em off 
 some. Don't let the marines do all the work for you either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynnad1977
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Quake 3 is a little better but Quake 4 is still good. It is better than that crap game PDZ!!! If 
 the rockes made a bigger BOOM than it would be a little more fun to use them. You need to hit them 
 right on for them to work!! And you should be abl to jume a little higher too! It would be nice 
 if it had more maps in is but the maps that are in it are good to so-so. I would say it is a buy 
 but rent it frist to see if it is your cup of tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levv
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2005 11:35 am PT
Review:  First of all it has some pretty dope weapons. I like the lighting effects and the shadows. The 
 thrill factor plays out quickly. It initially got me pretty excited. I think that the best part 
 of the game is using the vehicles. I know it was done in other games, but this time it was done 
 well. There are a few spots that I was confused on how to move to the next objective. That's just 
 cause I are no smart. (I typed it like that on purpose) The multi-player, xbox live, is very good. 
 Though you still get the classic lag problems and losers that quick in the middle of a match. I 
 would recommend this for every shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astrodude_5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  I just got my Xbox 360 and I picked up Quake 4 along with it. Raven and id pin the tail on the 
 donkey with this one. It's fun, fast, and addictive. Not to mention that it's WAY better than Doom 
 3. The framerate isn't that bad. In fact, not really bad at all. Just inconsistent.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Simple, but still good. Turret and vehicle levels split up the action. I 
 can't really describe it, the gameplay is just fast and spot on. Multiplayer is very fun too. It 
 is more skill with a game-pad than anything about tactics. There aren't too many places to camp, 
 just face-to-face combat. At least in deathmatch.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  First of all, I don't have HDTV (I do now, see update at bottom for HD) . I do have S-video, but 
 since the HD cables in the Premium package don't support S-video, I'm using composite. And it looks 
 amazing. Textures, all of it. It's like watching a high end PC. Yes, I also have one of those. 
 If graphics float your boat, Quake 4 is for you. Yes, the framerate (sometimes) gets unruly, but 
 never to the point where it's unplayable. Watch out, the 360 hasn't even been scratched yet. [UPDATE 
 12/11/05] OK, now I have HDTV and it looks even better. It's a little sharper or something. It 
 just looks better. Who needs 480i when my new TV runs 720p and 1080i? Obvious upgrade in graphics. 
 It looked great without HD, but I never realized what HD can do to a game. There are problems, 
 but still a fine game.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sound is pretty cool. The music is good, the voice acting (which doesn't include any big names) 
 is also very good. The weapons though, sound very powerful and will rumble your house. (If you 
 have a nice speaker setup and crank up the volume. I'll take a notch off because of occasional 
 problems and bad balance. You can never hear what is being said unless it's totally quiet.
  
  Value: 9/10
  
  The single player game is excellent, and about 11 hours long, and the multiplayer 
 is fast and furious. Even if it's a lot like Quake III. Plus, the 360 version comes with Quake 
 II. You can play the whole single player, and play co-op and deathmatch on split-screen or system 
 link. Lot's of stuff to do here, eh Steve? Not worth the $60 if you already own the PC version 
 on a great gaming rig.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  
  I just really like Quake 4. It has it's problems, and it's not really innovative, but who cares. 
 It's fun, with lots on gunplay and some cool bosses, and isn't that why we play video games?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alrenchy1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 25, 2005 2:59 am PT
Review:  Quake series has some improvement over the years but not as much as Quake 4. Although the multiplyer 
 part needs some improvemts, but it's the single player that makes Quake 4 an outstanding shooting 
 game. The graphics is amazing and very emmersive. The story needs some work, they could have added 
 more story behind the main character and his past. Back to the visual of this game, in ultra quality 
 settings, the graphics is just simply one of the best out there. The visual are just eye popping 
 and close attention to details. Im very impressed with all the details and the multiple lightings 
 of the levels, characters etc. The only that got me is that the AI of the strogg characters and 
 enemies are not that intellegent. Some will just run in front of you with sucidal behavior instead 
 of finding cover. The vehicle riding part, especially the hover tank is not that great. It's really 
 fast and basically just shooting at enemies in order to advance to another area. I favor to just 
 the part you walk to dark corridors and blast enemies as they pop out from any direction. It would 
 be nice if they add some stealth features to the gameplay instead of just enemies suprising you 
 and seems to know everytime your coming. It would great if you can sneak behind enemies and take 
 them out quitely. Some of the best way to accomplishing the mission is with silent and invisible 
 not just blasting through walls of enemies that keeps on swarming. It would be best of stealth 
 is added cuz it makes the game more in control and challenging. Overall, Im impressed with this 
 game with stunning visual effect and just fast and pure fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica_04
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Quake 4 is an amazing first person shooter for any FPS fan. Other reviewers have complained about 
 this game however, it is nothing more then fantastic. I am not loading this review also. The graphics 
 do not slow down and lag, infact they are quite smooth. The detail in the guns, scenery and character 
 models are so cool. The game also varies the action quite nicely. You dont always walk around in 
 the same area shooting the same creatures, you can go in vechicles and are in different places. 
 The enemys arent stupid either. They hide and shoot well and know how to use somthing for cover. 
 You would expect them to only jump out once you turn a corner. Even I was surprised when I found 
 them to be challenging and therefore fun to kill. The story isnt so interesting that you can write 
 a whole novel on it. However, it; s cool and enough to keep you focused and listening. I will not 
 immediately tell you to purchase this game since other reviewers have marked it quite negatively. 
 I'm also confident enough in the game that i can tell you to rent it, knowing that anyone playing 
 a taste of it will enjoy and want to purchase it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnzk_x
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 3:46 pm PT
Review:  ID MADE A BIG MISTAKE PUTTING AN OLD ENGINE THAT WAS VERY FAST ON GEFORCE 6 AND ON THE NEW SYSTEM 
 THAT HAVE MORE POWER THAN TWO GTX AND THE GAME LOOKS BAD ON THIS HIGH GRAPHICS CONSOLE .FIRST OFF 
 ALL THE GRAPHICS AINT SHARP LIKE THE PC DONT ASK ME WHY. THE GAME PLAY IS NICE BUT NOT THAT FUN. THE 
 FRAME RATE IS UNSTABLE AT ALLL I HAVE A HIGH END PC WITH 2 G RAM AND 6800 GT AND THE GAME LOOKS 
 MORE SHARP AND FASTER THAN 360 ,ID SOFTWARE DIDNT UNDERSTAND THE POWER OF XBOX 360 AND THEY SHOULD 
 HAD WAITED TO FIX THIS FRAME RATE PROBLEM AND IT SHOULD BEE SHARPER THAN THE PC BECAUSE IT HAS 
 512 MB MEMORY WHAT A SHAME ON ID I WOULD RECCOMMEND THE PC VERSION AND IF YOU HAVE A HIGH END CARD 
 YOU WILL ENJOY THIS GAME A LOT BUT 360 VERSION IS OUTDATED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evildeadite666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 24, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard this would be a launch title i was really excitied, so i preordered it. I waited 
 patiently trying not to read anything about it, so it wouldnt be ruined for me when i got home 
 that morning to play it. Being a HUGE Doom 3 fan i was expecting this to blow it out of the water, 
 boy was i let down. its nothing more than the same game but with better graphics, some cussing 
 and diferent guns. Now, if you've never played Doom 3, and this looks like a sweet game to get, 
 then by all means you will love it, and being half way through i will finish it. But if your reading 
 this, wondering if you should buy it, and you loved Doom 3, dont waste your money, you've already 
 played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  Quake 4 was OK but for people like me and cant afford a high quality gaming computor this is a 
 good game but i dont think they put much work on the graphics and the online the online matchmaking 
 is almost impossible to find a 8 person room so that makes it difficult to play alot of games with 
 it and the offline is pretty linear and you have to do alot of backtracking witch i dont like to 
 do very much but overall the gameplay was super awsome and i think its a great buy for people who 
 dont have a gaming computor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneSierra
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 24, 2005 10:03 am PT
Review:  Don't let the trailer movies fool you. This isn't Doom 3 times.... well times anything. In fact 
 I go as far to say that D3 was almost a better looking game because they did a much better job 
 switching from PC to XBOX. 
  The sound effects in the game are pretty good, but don't look for a soundtrack to go along with 
 it. If you have a hard drive, put your own music on this one. The in game tracks are so lackluster 
 I want to put in some Cherry Pie by Warrent to keep me awake.... luckily the game will keep you 
 awake all on its own.
  The controls are good in the game, you get a familiar feel if you played Doom 3 with some new features. 
 
  So all in all, this would be a block buster on the old XBOX, that could have pulled off this nex-gen 
 game with ease.... but given the tripple power of the new box, I'm not impressed as I was with D3.
 
  
  Once again, these are only gripes about the visual display. The game is really fun on its own. 
 Oh... no Co-Op? Whats the deal id? Doom's Co-Op was a blast!
  All in all, I couldn't stop playing once I started. A solid shooter! Just don't expect the beauty 
 of Joanna from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perryjd1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:52 am PT
Review:  A good continuation of the QUAKE series with great graphics and a pretty good story. The game play 
 is your standard fare of first person shooter, with a pretty cool squad element ( more for emersion 
 though ) and a token multiplayer aspect that is ok if you dont have anything else to play. Not 
 a solid next gen title but a good choice if you need to scratch that itch to blow stuff up! A very 
 good port from the PC which looks almost the same (cant tell really...) and it also comes with 
 a bonus disk that has films and QUAKE 2 the complete game on it - which play suprisingly well. 
 A good call on ID's part really - because quake 2 was a pretty good game. Multiplayer is so-so, 
 with odd conection issues and the inability to play Q4 on split screen at your home. Some say it 
 was a qlitchy game - i didnt notice glitch so much until multiplayer. A good rental/buy until GEARS 
 of WAR and HALO 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:18 pm PT
Review:  I think gamespot was a little to harsh on this game. I think the graphics are good and the gameplay 
 is solid. The story is really cool but again its a first person shooter so its not the longest 
 game but still is a little lengthly. The controls are easy to figure out and now they give you 
 a reason to use your scopes as it will give you better accuracy and it will do more damage. The 
 only thing I dislike about this game is the fact that in some points if your blasting your riffle 
 and there are a few enemies on the screen it will lag a little but but other then that a great 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hahahahago
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 23, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  this was an awesome game. i think it is one of the best xbox 360 games next to perfect dark zero 
 i got an xbox 360 on the day that it came out and i am extreamlly glad thet i got this game. it 
 is very fun and very addicting. i like it more than quake 1,2 and 3 because there is a story and 
 not just multiplayer. Great game ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! 
 !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenSr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Quake rank a 6.6 by GS woe!! I don't know I really like the game. This was my first time playing 
 Quake and I getting my fix!! To me it has a mix in it of Halo, and Doom. The Graphics are great, 
 very sharp, fast pace, and lots of shooting up things. there's this cannon you jump into to blow 
 some doors open WOW!, COOL! wish there was more, machine guns trucks great for mowing down them 
 creature things, plus the weapon arson you gain is great . And they remember the flash like on 
 the weapons!! Pretty cool having some guys with you, at least they can lead you inthe right direction. 
 If you're a first-person-shoot, like wild stories, lots of cool weapons, freaky monster things 
 and just like blowing the heck out of things, this is the game!! There was a down side, this could 
 be because of my new 360 (which is what I'm thinking, I like the game) , but I got to be honest, 
 the game did lag a couple times, and frozed up once with in the hour. I don't know I'll see. But 
 I feel it's better than a 6.6, and is better than 5th in the ten top games (at least 3, there are 
 other games I want to check out) like about 9!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbholt
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 22, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  i purchased this game when i bouth X360 because i heard people in line talking about how fun it 
 was.... blah blah blah, i bought it, like a sucker. Honestly when i put it in i thought to myself. 
 "is that it" i had it in my x360 for about 20 min. The first thing that i noticed was the terrible 
 graphics, i thought i was playing on my ps2 lol. do yourself a favor and save your money. packaged 
 it up along with the free Kameo game i got from costco, went down to EBGames and traded them in 
 for perfect dark zero, what an improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megaschmo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 10:38 am PT
Review:  Well, I just got out of the enormous ques for the Xbox 360, but they were worth it. I'd just like 
 to say this is THE best electrical.. well.. anything that you could possibly have.
  But onto the game, Quake 4. The gameplay is fast and furious, and you'll be able to hear your heart 
 beating with adrenaline. A nice lengthy single player campaign, and good online multiplayer make 
 this an exerience not to be missed. The game should take you about 12 hrs to complete, as I am 
 a 1/4 of the way through and it has taken me 3hrs so far. Graphics are pretty good, but perhaps 
 not quite as sharp as they were on PC. One problem is the fraemrate. It is sometimes so slow that 
 you can hear the individual bullets from a machine gun. This really lets the feel of the game down, 
 and is the most fustrating aspect of the game.
  The sound is awesome, bullets scream through the air, desperate cries from the wounded penetrate 
 the chaos. If you have surround soound, then you will agree that this is probably the best sounding 
 game in a long time!
  I would give it 10/10, but is framerate and sometimes muddy graphics let it down a little, though 
 not one to be missd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentinelva
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:15 am PT
Review:  This game was rushed to the stores and has a million bugs and should never have been released. 
 I loved the PC version of Quake 4, so I know how great the game can be. But the Xbox360 version 
 has major graphical issues. The game must have a memory leak or something because it will get slower 
 the longer you play and will get so bad you have to restart the game periodically. They should 
 have waited and released this a few months later after they fixed all the framerate bugs.
  
  The other issue is that it's much harder to aim using the Xbox controller. Especially when 
 playing some of the vehicle missions. Levels I thought where easy on the PC became tough as the 
 framerate would drop and it was hard to target the enemy fast enough. It's a good thing you can't 
 hurt your teammates as I kept shooting them in the head as I wasn't able to aim precisely enough 
 all the time to hit the Strogg as my teamates ran in front of me.
  
  Anyway, to sum up the game, I'd recommend passing on this one and getting the PC version. Raven 
 and ID software obviously rushed this port of the game out, and at the last minute tried to fix 
 the framerate by putting in low-res textures and changing the shadows in the game. Even doing this 
 it didn't help the framerate much. It's funny when you consider that Doom 3 looks pretty good on 
 the original Xbox. You'd think that if they got Doom 3 working on that older system, with this 
 brand new next-gen console they could get Quake 4 working better. Oh well, at least there's Perfect 
 Dark and Call of Duty 2 to play instead.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
