-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Race Pro
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/racepro/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge array of racing classes.
 Good mix of tracks.
 Excellent physics and handling.
 Incredible number of tweakable options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lack of extras.
 Lousy presentation.
 Only 13 tracks.
 Quality of visuals is inconsistent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.1, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 220 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: SimBin
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date: Feb 17, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
RacePro is an incredibly in-depth racing game that's also an accessible and enjoyable driving experience. 
 

  RacePro isn't afraid to let you know that it's a racing simulator. When you first jump into the 
 Career mode, the difficulty level defaults to Professional, turning off all steering assists and 
 racing lines in the process. But despite its penchant for realism, RacePro is also very accessible. 
 The lower difficulty levels make it easy to pick up and play, and the career structure lets you 
 buy your way into successful teams if you don't have the skill or the inclination to qualify for 
 them. Sadly, the emphasis on realism has been at the expense of presentation, and the sparse menu 
 systems and bland graphics fall well below the genre's high standards. If you can put up with the 
 loss of such luxuries, then the superb selection of tracks, cars, and racing disciplines help make 
 up for it. RacePro ultimately has more to offer the hardcore racing fan than the Sunday driver, 
 but it's still a good console version of a great PC series.  

           Mini Cooper racing marks a great introduction to the game.      

  The meat of RacePro 
 is in the Career mode, and the progression here is built around signing racing contracts with various 
 commercial companies. You have the option of earning a place on each team by beating a set lap 
 time and paying a small fee, or you can simply buy your way in for a premium. This is a great idea, 
 and it means that you're afforded some breathing space throughout the 33-contract career. The difficulty 
 model is also brilliantly implemented, letting you increase or decrease the number of assists that 
 you use at any time, with a credit incentive that increases with the difficulty level. Your progress 
 is also incentivised by unlocking new cars for the standard race mode.  

  This basic structure of the Career mode results in a very rewarding game. You're always in control 
 of the difficulty, and you're being pushed to go that little bit further than your ability. Novices 
 will find the game completely accessible at the easiest level, whereas the semi-pro level offers 
 a great compromise between difficulty and playability. You can tinker with the precise settings 
 of each of the assist levels before you start each race, so you can experiment with reducing the 
 hand-holding as you progress. The highest level is geared toward those who want an authentic experience, 
 and all but the most dedicated of racing enthusiasts will have difficulty controlling the vehicles 
 at this level.  

  The move to the Xbox 360 has clearly brought more accessibility to the Race series, but there are 
 still a bewildering amount of tweakable options for those who appreciate the science behind the 
 sport. By default, car setups are controlled by the game itself, but you can always choose to tinker 
 under the hood with brakes, aerodynamics, gears and many more. The options are incredibly in-depth, 
 so it's great that you can save these setups, experiment with them in the Practice mode, and then 
 load them whenever you like. The level of customisation also stretches to the control system, with 
 sliders to adjust the sensitivity and dead zones of the steering, throttle, and braking. This will 
 be of particular interest to those with wheels and custom-driving rigs who want to tailor their 
 setup exactly to their specification.  

  One of RacePro's key strengths is the variety of racing disciplines that it has to offer. The Race 
 series on the PC has been officially endorsed by the World Touring Car Championship, Formula 3000, 
 and Formula BMW, and RacePro continues this tradition by bringing them all to the Xbox 360. There's 
 also GT Racing, Dodge Vipers, and Mini Cooper challenges, the latter of which form a great introduction 
 to the Career mode. The game has only 13 tracks -- and none are available in reverse -- but the majority 
 of them are rarely seen in racing games, including a few excellent city tracks. We've seen the 
 Nurburgring so many times in recent racers that it's quite refreshing to not have to race it again 
 here, and instead we get new tracks such as a Portuguese street circuit with open straights and 
 tight corners, and a superlong track from Elkhart Lake, Wisconsin, in the USA.  

           The car models are nicely detailed, and they're a pleasure to drive.      

  Although 
 the tracks are all well designed, the stars of the show are the vehicles. RacePro offers one of 
 the most realistic physics models we've seen in a racing game, and there is a world of difference 
 between the appearance and handling of all the different models of cars. The lighter vehicles feel 
 suitably twitchy as they corner, and a pack of touring cars weave across the track with that same 
 swarmlike movement as in real life. The car models themselves are also very good, with detailed 
 interiors, but the one area where the modeling falls down is damage. A car can be ruined with a 
 single crash on the highest difficulty level, but this doesn't have a significant visual impact 
 on the car itself. Bumpers fall off, but there's none of the broken-windshield, hanging-together-by-a-thread 
 feeling of the car models that we've seen in other racers.  

  In addition to the aforementioned Career mode, there are Single Race and Championship modes. There 
 are also Time Attack modes that let you compete against the world's fastest lap times, and the 
 Practice Sessions, where you can concentrate on cutting down those lap times without the bother 
 of traffic. Then there's the bonkers-sounding but actually quite fun Hot Seat mode, which appears 
 in lieu of split-screen multiplayer. Players take control of the game sequentially rather than 
 concurrently, either in co-op, where you take turns driving the same car, or in versus where you 
 drive different cars and the AI takes over in between. It's more fun than it sounds, partly because 
 of its relative novelty, but it's still a shame that there isn't a traditional split-screen multiplayer 
 option.  

  Thankfully, Xbox Live and System Link multiplayer lets up to 12 players race alongside each other 
 in more traditional form. Xbox Live offers ranked and unranked play, with matches split up by difficulty, 
 so all racers are playing with the same aids. The host chooses options such as the track, laps, 
 and weather, and then people can jump in to practice on the track before qualifying and racing. 
 The multiplayer works well from a technical perspective: pressing the "quick match" option lets 
 you enter a game in without having to wait around, taking a lot of the boredom out of waiting around 
 for people to join. You can also add AI opponents to unranked matches to make up numbers, but it's 
 disappointing to see only standard race options available -- we'd have liked to have seen tournaments 
 as well.  

  The graphics in RacePro are functional, with detailed car models running through bland-looking 
 scenery with very little trackside detail. The shadowing on the cars is also noticeably jagged, 
 and the screen tearing is just plain unacceptable. The rain effects are impressive, especially 
 when they splash on the windscreen in the in-car view, but otherwise everything other than the 
 car models falls flat. The audio is also very sparse, with no music outside of the menus, no commentary, 
 and flat-sounding engine noises. The menu system is way below the par of other console racers, 
 lacking presentational flourishes and serving information in a very matter-of-fact way. Worse still, 
 some information is hard to find; for example, you have to activate the advanced settings in the 
 Single Race menu to change the weather. However, RacePro does some things right, offering specific 
 pointers for each individual track as the game loads up.  

           The 13 circuits include a few city locations, which are a nice change both visually and 
 structurally.      

  RacePro excels in providing a deep experience without sacrificing accessibility, and it has one 
 of the most realistic physics models of any console racer yet. Ultimately, RacePro succeeds in 
 making a hardcore racer accessible to the masses, but the unwelcoming menu system and workmanlike 
 graphics mean that the package as a whole just falls short of the mark. But if you're looking for 
 an incredibly realistic racing game that puts the cars before everything else, then it's worth 
 dusting off your steering wheel for RacePro.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: projectsix1984
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 9, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The physics and handling of the game are quite good, and up there with any other racing game I've 
 played. This has to be the best feature of the game. The difficulties can be set to give a challenge 
 to a seasoned race game driver all the way down to a novice. You can also select different levels 
 of driver aids like ABS and TCS and change the difficulty of the AI drivers. There is a ton of 
 custom car fine tuning you can do, although the basic setup it gives you should be just fine.
 
  
  There are some problems though. The graphics are good, but not great. There is no 'wow' factor. 
 The cars are well detailed but the environments surrounding the tracks could have used some more 
 work. Personally I found the audio to be a little annoying, instead of sounding really cool like 
 a race car should after a few hours I chose to play without the sound.
  
  The game has an option for a single race which allow you to set all kinds of options when you're 
 in the mood for a quick race. There is multiplayer available over Xbox live in both player matches 
 and ranked matches. I played some of these, and they seemed to run just fine without any lag but 
 the main problem is that there was not many people online at all.
  
  The core of the game is the career mode. It features a series of 'contracts' each which 3 races. 
 You can tryout for a contract or buy it out with credits won, then race in the 3 individual races 
 and win credits as you go. It's a nice concept but the main issue I have is that there was no sense 
 of progression at all. It just felt like one series of races after another, and the credits you 
 win can only be used to buy a contract instead of trying out which doesn't take very long anyways. 
 You unlock up to 3 types of the car (bronze, silver, gold) for each contract based on the difficulty 
 level you chose. It'd be much nicer if you could use credits to buy new cars and/or new upgrades.
 
  
  The other major part of the game is the championship series. You have a series of races for each 
 car class where you can choose all the options. Each one has a points standings. There isn't a 
 lot different from this set up than career, except it's one season with points instead of a career 
 of contracts.
  
  The AI in the game is not bad but not great either. They are generally very predictable. None of 
 the AI drivers seem to have any personality or unique driving traits that set them apart. A lot 
 of races they just seem to go through the whole race in one bunch. A few times an AI driver would 
 be given a drive-through penalty for crossing the track on a turn, but wouldn't be smart enough 
 to go in to the pits for the penalty and be disqualified.
  
  In essence, Race Pro will please some hardcore racing sim fans with its realistic handling and 
 physics. There are a fairly wide variety of cars and tracks as well. It just wasn't all brought 
 together very well. No sense of progression in career mode, no way to upgrade or buy new cars, 
 and a boring AI. If you want to try a great racing sim for the Xbox 360, I'd recommend Forza Motorsport 
 2 over this for a much better overall package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeharesnape
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 4:00 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game pretty much non-stop since its release and it has really grown on me. 
 I was so excited when I got my hands on it but after a few hours game play found myself feeling 
 a little disappointed and dejected. Everyone who's played this game probably understands what I 
 mean - slightly grainy graphics, confusing multiplayer and a pretty dull career mode - but you 
 have to push past this and focus on the positives. If like me you love racing game this won't take 
 you long and you will realise just what a great simulator this is. The multiplayer is very competitive 
 and both player and ranked matches offer a wide variety of customisation options. I know it isn't 
 the most polished of games and could me difficult for people who aren't that into racing games 
 but for those who are you need this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suseklis666
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:34 am PT
Review:  If you like racing sims, but you hate Forza2 for the dumb no touching, no driving on grass rules 
 taht add time to your lap, this is a game for you! Forza2 made me go mad, frustrated all the time, 
 but this game is more than ok, its just plain fun. You wont be playing this non-stop for a week, 
 but a few races is really fun and relaxing. It, of course, has it flows, like lack of car damage, 
 and the career isnt the best, but in overall, this is a good game. The graphics arent filled with 
 flashy effects, but still look pretty good. You can even notice, that the CPU is busy with the 
 phisycs, rather than calculating the trajectory of the crowd, when a tire hist em... The game deserves 
 to be bought! It has splitscreen, the option that has allmost died :| Nothing can be better than 
 splitscreen :P
  
  P. S. Good game, take off the aids, choose the manual and youre off :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbrandowen
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:56 am PT
Review:  Race Pro recreates a breathtaking reality giving gamers the ultimate racing simulation experience 
 - with precision physics and handling, racers will feel every bend and burst of acceleration along 
 with every emotion from pre-race tension in the pit lanes to the exhilaration of capturing the 
 checker flag. 
  
  Race Pro provides unrivalled realism and deep immersion into the racing world through ultra realistic 
 car models and official FIA championships and tracks. Putting players in the driving seats of their 
 simulated racing careers, racers will have the opportunity to work their way up the leader boards 
 through intense training and winning key races. Race Pro has something for everyone, allowing players 
 of all levels to pick up and play, while offering challenging tracks and advanced modes for the 
 more experienced players. 
  
  Race Pro offers a wealth of cars ranging from 200 to over 1000 horse power, as well as a host of 
 championships including WTCC (World Touring Car Championship) , Formula 3000 and Formula BMW. GT 
 cars from manufacturers including Aston Martin and Saleen take their place on the grid as well 
 as production cars such as the Audi R8 and Dodge Viper SRT10.
  
  In addition, Race Pro is exclusively bringing all the WTCC cars from manufacturers Alfa Romeo, 
 BMW, Chevrolet and Seat to Xbox 360 for the very first time. For a blast of accessible fun, the 
 Mini Cooper Challenge invites players of all abilities to take the wheel. Gamers and racing fans 
 alike will experience the thrill of racing these powerful cars on 13 real life tracks covering 
 all continents, of which Macau, Porto and Pau are exclusive to Race Pro, and US tracks Laguna Seca 
 and Road America are brand new to SimBin fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octaaf7
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  Alright I saw this game in stores and thought it would be an awesome game because Atari already 
 had some good games.
  But it really s*cks, hear me:
  First of all the 2 player co-op and competitive are a disaster!
  you can't play together on a 
 split screen, first player 1 drives half a minute and then player 2. and so on... WTF!?
  
  Then I tried the career mode, it looked good to me in the first time but when I tried to crash 
 an other car it just "bumps" a way, like if i'm driving against a rubber obstacle :S 
  First I was laughing at hell, but after bumping some cars I thought huh? how is this even possible? 
 When you drive a car that goes 140 KM/H and hit another car you don't "bump" him away.. you should 
 crash or at least hear and see an impact...
  So I tried to drive 150 KM/H against a wall to see what the impact will be.
  You guess it, just 
 a little boom, thats all. no flying in the air, damaging car or destroyed wall, only a little boom!
 
  
  And as finished touch hear the noise when you swift gears :D :D hilarious! but not funny when you 
 know you have payed 60 Euro for this game.
  
  So I brought it back and got myself a REAL race game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgmonkeeuk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 6:53 am PT
Review:  Console exclusives generally have to carry a lot of weight on their shoulders, if only to further 
 light the fires of the squabbling Playstation and Xbox fanboys out there. (Me? I'm not that interested) 
 And when it comes to Racing Sims, Sony has it's Gran Turismo 5, and in the Xbox corner we have 
 Forza Motorsport. While we eagerly await the next instalments of these great titles, Atari have 
 pitched in with "Race Pro" exclusive to the 360, ordinarily at home on the PCbut frankly, I don't 
 think PS3 gamers will be that jealous!
  
  Race Pro isn't a necessarily a stunning game. The graphics won't blow you away, in fact at times 
 they can be awful as the pixels jump across the screen in an awfully slow frame rate. The best 
 graphical feature is "cockpit" view whilst in-car, but to be honest, you get this on every single 
 racing sim on any console.
  
  There's nothing amazing in the car layouts, the scenery, the look of the tracks, even the models 
 of cars themselves etc etc The sounds are minimal at best, almost dull, uninspiring and non-atmospheric. 
 Everything, outside the actual racing scenarios, looks quite basic and bland.
  
  But you get the feeling that Atari just weren't interested in creative "that" type of game. They 
 weren't trying to emulate the beautifully designed "Grid" for example. It kinda feels like the 
 Race Pro looks and sounds basic enough to let the Gamer experience a full sense of real racing.
 
  
  When it comes to the design of the tracks, for example, straights aren't all that straight. A stretch 
 of road can appear deceptively bumpy and, particularly on the higher difficulty settings, it's 
 a struggle to keep the car in a straight line at top speed. Suspension, tyre grip & steering (all 
 of which can be tweaked in the settings to the smallest detail) are all felt in your joypad as 
 it rumbles and jitters about in your grasp  making you concentrate that little bit extra.
  
  This only really comes alive in Professional mode, where there is the bare minimum of driving 
 aids to guide you around. Semi-Pro is where most people would start as it offers a taste of Pro-Mode, 
 without sending you crashing into walls at the slightest mistake. Whereas, Novice mode is pretty 
 much a waste of time. You can flit and switch modes as and where you like, depending on your performances, 
 you're not stuck in one game setting for an entire career, for example.
  
  Speaking of the career, this comes by the way of successfully completing "try-outs" for racing 
 contracts across varying models and designs of cars. It's a small twist on the usual race-upon-race 
 career modes of other racing games. There are forty-eight cars to unlock in total, across increasing 
 lap-races, so it should take you quite a while to get the full quota.
  
  There's also a Championship mode, where you can set the variables for your own full-season of racing. 
 Everything from the model of car, to the number of the laps, to the qualifying periods is all down 
 to your choice  ideal for those who feel the main career is a bit stunted and those that want 
 that extra freedom of choice.
  
  As for multiplayer mode, in the rare instances I've managed to secure an online game, I was met 
 with meaningless rambles around tracks with about three other gamers. We weren't racing as such, 
 moreover it felt like we were all going on some pointless "Sunday drive" and on the rare occasions 
 we caught up with each other, it felt empty and uncompetitive. Perhaps there is more meaning to 
 this in the ranked competitions, and really what would've been ideal would've been some kind of 
 tournament structure.
  
  Overall, if you can forgive the obvious flaws in Race Pro, it can be enjoyable from a pure racing 
 point of view. The game has some distinctly raw qualities that are rarely seen on any other racing 
 sim, I think it's more for the hardcore racer out there.
  Though disappointingly, more polish, better online play and improved visuals could have made this 
 game something special. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: junor69
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Been there done 
  
  that Is it hard to ask for the game that looks good and have goo driving physic?
  
  Race pro 
 would have been good on Ps2 or original Xbox but when you have Xbox 360 and you make game like 
 then sorry but developers should be ashamed of them self.
  
  Graphics are just plain and frame rate is disappointing, difficulty is just easy i played this 
 game on pro setting with all aids off and it feels like arcade racer not a sim.
  
  What you get is very limited number if race tracks and quite a few cars but game just feels dated 
 and old.
  
  It could have been a good race sim but it feels like its been pushed out to early few more months 
 would have improved the game.
  
  I found myself bit crossed by this game because i want to like it but i just can't.
  
  The 
 only thing i can recommend to anyone looking at this game rent it first I know my one is going 
 back to EB for store credit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeggers210
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 4:28 am PT
Review:  I was really excited about a good sim racer, since Forza is so old and dusty now. Normally great 
 graphics will cause screen tears and frame rate issues. This games graphics barely surpass ps2 
 and original xbox, yet massive lag. Will probly be even worse on the PS3 as most games are when 
 it comes to frame rate. Game also gives me no sense of speed, which might be the most important 
 part of racing. Now I look forward to NFS new Sim racer,,, uh oh am I really looking forward to 
 NFS? I will buy a PS3 if Gran Turismo EVER comes out. The $40 dollar price tag is almost bad news 
 when you see it on a new game. The game would not connect to any races I tried to connect to. I 
 had to host to get a match going. Then the biggest race I had was I think 6 racers? Good luck EVER 
 getting 12 racers into a ranked match. If you wreck your car, the car doesn't drive right, it gives 
 you no indicator as to whats wrong, just a general image letting you know your car is either bad, 
 kinda bad, or real bad, just guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Atari/SimBin collaborated on what appeared to be a racing sim that would challenge previous racing 
 titles such as FORZA 2 and GRID. However, many people have been fooled by the Atari brand in the 
 past this situation is no different. Atari's last "racing" venture was Test Drive: Unlimited  
 a once decent racing franchise that Atari destroyed. Some thought that their SimBin teammates would 
 revive the Atari name. Unfortunately, this was not the case, and people who were suckered in with 
 seemingly-amazing screenshots and a $40 price tag quickly discovered that they were duped again.
 
  
  Some people try to compare RacePro to FORZA 2. While both are simulation racing titles, FORZA 2 
 is leagues above what RacePro could ever hope to be. But let's concentrate on RacePro for a moment. 
 Those pretty screenshots you've seen on GameSpot and other gaming sites were mostly taken from 
 the replay mode. (Whether they are all from the PC version or from the XBOX 360 version is unknown.) 
 When you are actually racing the game, the graphics look quite horrible. A grainy texture fills 
 the screen, making you think you're playing it on a TV with a bad RF Switch connection. The car 
 models are ok, but I've seen better. The scenery is a little bland too.
  
  Another negative is the control scheme. You'd better like to use the LT for braking and RT for 
 accelerating, or you'll be in for a big learning curve. There are only about 3 choices for controller 
 configurations, but all 3 have LT as the brake and RT as the accelerator. No option for a custom 
 set-up. (The first of many missing options that I think are common-sense these days to put in racing 
 games, and most games in general.) Even the steering wheel controller won't work right unless you 
 go to their forums and use their little trick to get around the bug until they get around to patching 
 it. Also, there is no emergency brake, so basically all of the core buttons (X, A, B, and Y) are 
 used very little. Also, there are some options that are meant to help you but actually serve no 
 purpose at all. For example, the "racing line" is supposed to be green when you can accelerate, 
 and change to yellow and finally to red to suggest the level of braking to perform. Also, when 
 you are about to go into a turn, a pop-up arrow appears showing the direction of the turn and the 
 number beside the arrow is the suggested gear to take the turn in. However, there are times when 
 going through a turn that the racing line is red, but you can actually continue accelerating and 
 stay on the track and ahead of the pack. Sometimes its green when you should be slowing down more. 
 And sometimes the suggested gear is too high or too low for the turn you are approaching. Useless.
 
  
  When you start the Career Mode, you have to either qualify within the set time limit to win a 3-race 
 contract with a team (which allows you to pay a lower fee) , or you can just pay a higher fee and 
 not do a qualifying session. (Why you have to pay to enter a contract is ridiculous usually the 
 driver gets paid to sign a contract.) When you get your first contract, you'll be stuck racing 
 these ugly little Mini Coopers. Your goal is to win all 3 races to win the most money and to unlock 
 that skill level's car class. There are 3 levels: Novice, Semi-Pro, and Professional. The catch 
 is, in order to race the different cars in other modes (including online) , you have to race through 
 the Career mode and unlock that level of "car". This is very frustrating to those who want to race 
 some of the GT cars or touring cars, but have only unlocked the Mini Coopers and Chathams.
  
  The customization is rather limited, focusing only on adjusting certain aspects of driving, 
 like the steering speed, braking, etc. There is no custom paint shop/livery editor you can't even 
 choose the color of your car. You're restricted to the pre-modeled liveries and car colors in the 
 game. Apparently Atari/SimBin weren't interested in letting players add a personal touch to RacePro.
 
  
  Overall, RacePro falls short. Whether it was rushed out or not, this game is certainly not finished. 
 I would suggest a rental if you are interested in this game. (if you're lucky enough to find a 
 Blockbuster that purchased a copy for rent. I've called 5 of them and none of them had it for rent 
 or for sale.) The $40 price tag may be enticing, but trust me, there's a reason it was released 
 at a mere $40. Avoid this game. Wait for FORZA 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrewclifft
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 2, 2009 4:37 am PT
Review:  It might not be to everyones tastes but ive been waiting years for a proper racing game and although 
 i would like to see a few things done differently this game really works. I have had enough of 
 boring arcadey racers, theres far to many of them and i stoped playing them a long time ago. If 
 however you are a fan of arcadey racers then you might want to give this a miss. 
  
  There is nothing quite like getting into a very powerfull racing car turning off all the driving 
 aids and taking it out on the track. It is a very rewarding feeling to fake one way then the next 
 and overtake underbraking. It just feels like racing should feel like and i hope they sale enough 
 games to encourage simbin to make a second race pro because they can certainly improve on it.
 
  
  Overall a very good racing game if you can handle the challenge and dont mind a slight reduction 
 on visuals and presentation than your average driving game then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZedX-14Pilot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This game, for me, is a long time coming. I like simulations, but they are almost never done justice 
 in the console format. I am sure that is because most people who play on consoles would never commit 
 themselves fully to a game that requires actual concentrated play to become good. Console gamers 
 are heavily slanted to the casual side of things these days. Which isn't really a knock on console 
 gamers, it is just the truth of the matter. This is the closest thing to a real simulation you 
 will ever play on a console.
  
  Gameplay wise, it does almost everything just right. Controls are tight and responsive. I am sure 
 this thing would play a lot better with a wheel. In the time I have played it so far, I am real 
 happy with how the game plays with a standard XBox controller. Just be ready to put in some serious 
 time before you become good enough to be competitive online.. This game isn't for people looking 
 to drift around every corner, or just pin the throttle and ride the barriers to victory. There 
 is a reason it is called Race Pro, and the squeamish quitters need not apply.
  
  With all the love I have for this game, you might be wondering why an 8.5? Well, if I could, I 
 would give this game an 8.8, maybe an 8.9??? There are a couple of small things that keep this 
 title just shy of greatness. Alot of the reviews have given this game some knocks for its graphics. 
 They do have some valid points, but I truly don't have any problems with the look of the game. 
 We have been spoiled in this HD era, but, with a name like Race Pro, you should expect a grittier 
 look to the graphics. The cars are done nicely. Remember, this is a simulation, so the backgrounds 
 are not going to offer much in the way of scenery due to all the races taking place at real venues. 
 Have you ever been to a racing event in person? Most tracks do not exist in very scenic places. 
 Most tracks are in dreary, out of the way places.
  
  The other problems are mainly technical. The framerate could be better in some spots. But it definitely 
 does not detract from the overall experience. I also believe the sense of speed isn't that great. 
 It is not horrible, and again, does not detract from the experience in any way, but it is a noticeable 
 thing at times. Lastly, I have read reports of graphical tearing. I personally have not experienced 
 this. But if it is there, you shouldn't have some of these types of issues after two plus years 
 of development.
  
  In the end you are left with an exceptional first effort really for a company that mainly targeted 
 the PC market for years. This review is simple and to the point, because Race Pro is as well. Something 
 you will definitely notice about the presentation as well. This game is not about flash, or spending 
 hours customizing cars, or even spending hours upgrading your cars. This game is about RACING. 
 So if you are about racing, then get this. If you are about all that other stuff, go play ridge 
 racer, burnout, grid, or need for speed. This is a MANS game. Little boys can go play with their 
 matchbox collection elsewhere. See you on the starting grid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexLmx6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been a huge fan of SimBins racing games for a long time, and I have them all on the pc and 
 love them, so when RacePro came out for the 360 I was understandably excited, and I was not dissapointed. 
 The game takes the same winning formula of super realistic physics and minimalist presentation 
 and makes it accessable to the masses with scaleable difficulty.
  
  There is a pretty decent collection of cars and tracks to play with, including lots of different 
 classes including gt and wtcc classes, as well as the radical sports car classes which are a blast. 
 The game promises dlc in the future which will hopefully add more cars and tracks, and hopefully 
 will be free. The game is a definate thrill ride the first time you get into one of the faster 
 cars and fly around a corner barely keeping the car under control, and the a. i. is good enough 
 to pose a challenge but not be impossible to beat.
  
  The physics and handling of every car is superb in this game, each car has a distinct handling 
 and you can feel the weight of the car as you guide it around the track. The tuning options are 
 super in-depth and make real changes to the handling of the cars, but unless you really know what 
 you're doing, the default settings will do you fine. A racing wheel is a must for this game, you 
 will feel every tiny bump on the track and youll even feel when a wheel is off the ground or you 
 are sliding. The camera even simulates the g forces as you go around the track, and Racepro is 
 the most realistic experience you'll experience infront of a tv for sure.
  
  The game does have some small technical issues, however they dont take away from the gameplay so 
 they really arent an issue. The game seems to have trouble with syncing sound and animations with 
 gameplay events, particularly the shifting animation and sound, which will play a few seconds after 
 the car has actually changed gears. As well, the only voice you'll ever hear in the game is a guy 
 telling you you've won the race in a voice that sounds like he's at his only sons funeral. Coupled 
 with the less then amazing graphics, uninspired title and boring menus, its clear that presentation 
 wasn't the developers focus. But despite this, RacePro is still the best racing experience on the 
 Xbox360 and a must have for any racing fan.
  
  On a sidenote, it would be nice if the Xbox360 supported a steering wheel setup with a clutch and 
 shifter as this game is perfectly suited to it, hopefully by the next release this will be possible! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: draphtmasta
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:12 am PT
Review:  Wow... takes a little bit to get used to. But once you do, this is as good as it gets in terms 
 of racing physics. No longer can anyone say there are no simulators on console. I think the new 
 lizard engine is going to be a force to be reckoned with. This game has revolutionized racing physics 
 on console. 10tacle and Polyphony are gonna have to up the physics and sound game after this. And 
 I expect simbin to come after em with graphics on the next Race Pro. 
  
  This game doesn't have a huge car list... but it does have a huge variety of cars. Which in some 
 cases is better. And this is one of those cases. The problem with having tons of different cars 
 with unlimited combinations of part upgrades is that the online racing becomes less balanced. And 
 in this case, we have a tighter knit group of cars that are optimized for balanced online play.
 
  
  I think the graphics would improve if they took the grain filter off the windshield. Not sure why 
 they added it, but it is forgivable.
  
  I can't wait to get my hands on some DLC. And I hope that includes the STCC the Game cars/tracks 
 from their pc games. 
  
  What a superb game. And for only 39.99! Thanks Simbin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peteuplink
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  This is a review of the single player aspects of Race Pro.
  
  First of all let me start off by saying that the driving physics (by that I mean actually driving 
 a car round a track with no other opponents) is absolutely top notch. I've driven real cars at 
 track days in the past and this game feels great. Simbin have manage to craft a driving experience 
 like no other, but they unfortunately forgot to craft a good gaming environment to go with it.
 
  
  The problems with Race Pro become noticeable when you first start racing and most of the problems 
 are cause by an AI system that would have been archaic 10 years ago, let alone today.
  
  When you enter and leave the pits the car becomes AI controlled and it keeps you on the rev limiter 
 until you're right in the middle of the racing line on some tracks. Car doing 80 Kmh on the rev 
 limiter in the middle of the racing line and other cars racing each other at over 120 Kmh moving 
 along the same racing line is a recipe for disaster and it's something the developers should have 
 tested and fixed. Also when you cross the line at the end of a race, your car becomes AI controlled 
 and it will often lose control of the car.
  
  The AI cars have a very nasty habit of braking in the acceleration zone out of corners. So you'll 
 think it's clear to accelerate and you'll drive into the back of the car in front. Or you'll hesitate 
 in anticipation of the car in front slowing and get nerfed by the car behind.
  
  When an AI car tries to pass you in a tight corner, it may try to drive across the grass, bypassing 
 the corner completely.
  
  Your car is subject to cold brakes and tyres at the start of a race, however the AI cars are not. 
 So you'll brake earlier than normal, but the AI cars will brake quite late and sometimes drive 
 into the back of you. Or you'll try braking at the same point as the AI and find that the car has 
 all the braking characteristics of a dog on a shiny floor.
  
  Your car has no weight to it. I got bored and decided not to brake into a corner. I smacked the 
 car in front on it's right rear side at full speed. Now he should have been pushed off the track 
 or spun completely around and he carried on going as if I hadn't hit him... Also when barging in 
 a pack, you car is always the one to get pushed off the circuit, you can't push the AI cars.
  
  All in all, I think the driving physics of this game are great, but the game itself is so full 
 of bugs it feels like a beta release. In short:
  Very realistic handling and physics, but it looks and feels like it was made about 10 years ago... 
 The AI is a bit dumb, the graphics are very low spec and it's really easy to win races because 
 the AI cars will often pit at the wrong time. For example I made an 8 lap Mini race this morning 
 and was having fun racing from the back of the pack. I'd made it up to 8th in a 15 car race, when 
 on the last lap just before the lead car crossed the line, all the AI cars pulled into the pits 
 and gifted me the win.
  
  I think it very likely they decided to make it mostly for multiplayer use and didn't really bother 
 bug testing the single player game.
  
  My advice if you're thinking of getting it is hold of at least 6-8 months so they can get it patched. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Primal-Banana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:58 am PT
Review:  My first impression was to make sure i had kept the reciept. the menu music is awful, it looks 
 like it belongs in the 90's. navigating through the menus is easy enough and you set up the career/contract/race 
 etc . there are handy tips and maps of the track as loading screens which are useful, it's nice 
 to be able to qualify again as many race games seem to start you off the back these days. the graphics 
 border on truly awful and they couldnt be bothered. in this period of the 360s life span we shouldn't 
 be getting graphics this poor. whatever you do don't choose laguna seca as your first race if you 
 played forza 2 as it will show you how bad. however once you move your car off the line things 
 change and feel a bit different. the handeling is spot on and better than any of the competition. 
 the AI is also very hard to beat when in proffesional you really are going to need to qualify well. 
 the contract mode is pretty straight forward as is the championship however one thing i am suprised 
 about is the option to have rain and dry weather but no random! the multiplayer has a few glitches 
 that will no doubt be ironed out and the leaderboards are the usual ignore the first 500 times 
 but overall the game is pretty good. if you can get past the dull menus and graphics you are in 
 for a treat. if you care more about gameplay and like your racers you will do well. its also worth 
 mentioning that when online drivers going the wrong way get DQ and turn into ghosts, cutting corners 
 also earns penalties, so once the games ironed out the teething probs we'll be let with a great 
 handleing racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaseoRacer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the best feature... the cockpit view! The game looks and feels great from this 
 view. I think more games should have this view in the future. (cough, Forza 3, cough, pay attention, 
 gasp...) The bumps in the road and the handling of the cars are top notch. Best "feel" to a console 
 racer yet. I almost felt like I was in my own car at the track, minus the g forces. Now for the 
 bad. Glitches and lack of polish. Online freezes with too many people, Single Player Replays freeze 
 often. Any thing other than the cockpit view only looks a hair better than Forza 1, good, but not 
 great. The lack of rumble in the grass? I noticed that too. You have to play with the sound settings 
 to get it to sound right, but once you do, you will be rewarded. The A. I. always seems to "give 
 up" right before the last turn on the last lap, but are very tough until then. All in all, a great 
 game. I feel Atari and SimBin rushed this title out due to all the delays and changes in release 
 dates and people were getting tired of waiting. I know I had it on reserve since October last year! 
 This most likely is the reason for the lack of polish, but for $40 you can't go wrong! Pick this 
 one up if you race in real life and want a game close to that feeling, or if you are only a Gamer 
 that likes a challenge from a race title. Race Pro has it where it counts and that is game play! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemauch
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2009 3:14 am PT
Review:  **BACKGROUND**
  
  Being a big fan of simulator racing games. I started this journey with Gran Turismo 2, i've owned 
 all the Gran Turismo's and Forza's since. A few years ago I discovered SIMBIN's GTR and was blown 
 away by how hard it was. You don't get the speed sensation you get with other racers, you have 
 to brake in straight lines and for longer distances than other racers. If you gas it mid-corner 
 your rear slips out in a RWD without forgiveness. This was intoxicating and frustrating for me.
 
  
  A year ago I started getting into actual auto racing by taking my car on a few lapping day/track 
 day courses like Pacific Raceways, thunderhill, languna seca. Basically places on the west coast.. 
 and man o' man did I learn a lot about what driving on the limit means especially after a couple 
 spinouts.
  
  Going back to GTR2 and GTR Evo also made by SIMBIN I found that the skills i learned from actual 
 seat time in my track car translated back toward how i raced these games and had a newfound appreciating 
 for the realism SIMBIN uses in their games
  
  ** PHYSICS **
  Gran Tursimo 5 and Forza 2 might have more cars, tracks, look better. But i'm here to tell you 
 that doesn't matter. That really doesn't matter. It's the physics, the values of the suspension, 
 tires, the weight, and all the other bits that tell the cars what to do that really matters. I 
 can't tell this to you, you have to experience it. Take the red pill and at least rent this game 
 to see what a actual purpose build race/track car feels like.
  
  ** SOUND ** 
  First impression with my home surround sound blasting is that it's a bit lacking compared to the 
 Forza/GT5. Then I had an epiphany and simply realized that THESE ARE RACE CARS. Not a production 
 car churned out of a production line. They've been stripped, roll caged, doors and panels replaced 
 with carbon fiber and lighter bits. They're loud and they have race transmissions. In a city production 
 car you mainly hear the exhaust note because of all the sound dampening in the car as well as nice 
 soft rubber bushings to connect everything and absorb vibration that makes the experience tolerable 
 to live with.
  
  Sit in a race car, hear the engine and transmission whine as you go through the gears then tell 
 me this doesn't sound realisic. I'm not saying this game is 100% accurate, but once you realise 
 that these are race cars tuned for only being on the track, you'll see why it sounds so much different 
 than other cars. Youtube: loud bmw m3 gtr, just to see what I mean.
  
  ** GRAPHICS **
  The's graphics compared to the competition is borderline bad. These graphics are better than GTR2/Evo 
 but my god after playing Forza/Dirt/GRID/GT5 this is a step back to PGR3 when the 360 first launched 
 when they had no idea how to utilize this system. 
  
  Yes, i'm disappointed, but in a game like this, you don't have time to stare at the scenery, you're 
 constantly working the car, setting it up for the next turn, accelerating out of a turn in a smooth 
 line that the only time you have to look around is on the straights and that doesn't last more 
 than a few seconds. Simbin could of done better, but it's still an improvement over their past 
 games so you gotta give em' something.
  
  ** GAMEPLAY ** 
  Single player, not a whole lot of anything going on here. start a career and sign contracts to 
 drive a teams car. move your way up from a mini to a caterham to a radical sr3. (yes, you do progess 
 that quickly)
  
  GTR2 is known for the online community and that's where this game quickly falters. Already a couple 
 days in and the leaderboards are plagued with mis-posted times, cars driving faster than they should 
 and the drivers dont even know why, and i'm sure there are glitches that people are using right 
 now that I don't even know about.
  
  Don't even get me started on being dropped from races left and right. These bugs are reminiscent 
 to when xbox live was new. We know by now the service is solid, so it's gotta be the game. The 
 multiplayer is the one saving grace of a game like this so for heaven's sake, fix the multiplayer 
 code.
  
  ** PRESETATION **
  It's extremely simple. The menu's look like they're designed for a playstation 1 game. That's really 
 all i need to say.
  
  And last but not least..
  
  ** THE VERDICT **
  Could be better. Could be a lot better. In fact some expectations for a racing game just fall flat 
 on their face. For example, presentation, compelling single player, reliable multiplayer, are all 
 missing at this point. This game feels like it wasn't finished and needed to go back in the oven 
 for another year.. the middle of the bread is still raw.. and that's a true shame.
  
  But despite all the flaws, this is a honest racer. Its unwilling to become compromising for the 
 sake of a larger target audience. It knows what it is. It's a true drivers game. Driving other 
 games that claim to be true simulators, then climbing into this is a big change. Everything about 
 it feels different than what we're used to on the console. It's the closest we've come to reality 
 on a console. It's truly and finally nice for gearheads to have something to rally to and for that, 
 it's worth trying out at the very least. I bought it day one because I know simbin wouldnt let 
 me down with the driving experience and that's exactly what I wanted.
  
  PS. SIMBIN, bring us Nurburgring Nordschlife. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjo1992
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Got the game today and let me tell say something. If you are a fan of Race car games and love sim 
 racing games. Then you will love this game. Race Pro makes Forza look like an arcade game. Every 
 car in the game has its own handling. You can feel every bump in the track unlike Forza where the 
 tracks were pretty flat. Also if you hit a bump your car will jump side ways if you hit it just 
 right. This game isn't meant to impress you with the graphics. If anyone judges this game by the 
 graphics then your missing out on a lot. In car came looks great and really detailed. I really 
 dont like the out side car cam. I think the camera is to far away from the car. The cosmetic damage 
 is a little better then Forza cosmetic damage. Thats not the only part of your car you can damage. 
 You can damage your engine and other internal parts of your car. This was my small review. I would 
 suggest the game if you were into Forza and other sim racers. If you only played Grid or PGR then 
 you might find this game hard at first seeing that those two games are arcade racers. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
