-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ratatouille
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/ratatouille/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some solid voice work from the film's cast.
 Nice looking fur.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating and sometimes unfinished-feeling gameplay.
 Irritating mission designs.
 Not much story to be found here.
 Graphics aren't much to look at.
 Minigames are just lame.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  3, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 127 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Heavy Iron Studios
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Jun 26, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sloppy controls and occasional glitches make Ratatouille one kid-unfriendly platformer. 

  One of the key themes of Pixar's latest animated film,  Ratatouille , is not settling for junk 
 food -- literally. The hero, a rat named Remy, is always telling his brother to eschew eating any 
 random garbage he finds in favor of working to find something more flavorful, and ultimately, satisfying. 
 At the same time, the evil chef, Skinner, is conspiring to turn now-deceased master chef Auguste 
 Gusteau's image into a mascot for cheaply made frozen cuisine, a plot that the heroes of the film 
 have to thwart. So it's a bit disappointing and slightly ironic that the video game based on the 
 film has more in common with the cheap junk food the film decries than any well-prepared, savory 
 dish. This is especially true of the Xbox 360 version of Ratatouille, which not only is about as 
 satisfying as a lukewarm microwaveable burrito, but also feels as though someone at the factory 
 ate about half of it before shoving it into its packaging and sending it off to stores. It, like 
 other recent films based on computer-animated flicks, is a simple, kid-friendly platformer that 
 loosely ties into the plot of the film, but unlike many of these other recent platformers (and 
 even other console versions of this very game) , Ratatouille goes beyond merely being middling kid-friendly 
 entertainment into being a sloppy and periodically frustrating mess.  

           Ratatouille on the Xbox 360 would just be another middling platformer if it weren't so 
 busted in a few key areas.      

  Both the film and the game tell the story of Remy, a rat living in France who dreams of becoming 
 a master chef -- a dream that doesn't quite jibe with the others in his rat colony, especially his 
 father. Unlike all the other rats, Remy won't eat just any piece of garbage lying around; he pines 
 for more unique and expansive flavors, and actually has the crazy idea to try  preparing  his food 
 with herbs and spices. So it is with great fortune that circumstance brings Remy to Paris and the 
 doorstep of the restaurant once owned by his favorite TV chef, Gusteau. From here, the film launches 
 into a brilliantly funny plot about Remy and a hapless garbage boy, Linguini, teaming up to create 
 a master chef tandem. The game addresses a few of the key points from the movie, but for the most 
 part, it skips over any potential spoilers and keeps its focus on missions involving Remy and his 
 rat-colony buddies stealing food from various Paris locations. Oddly enough, there's very little 
 cooking going on in the Xbox 360 version of the game, with almost all the focus being on the platforming 
 gameplay.  

  Missions are standard platforming fodder. You jump and swing around various boxes, platforms, tightropes, 
 ledges, and other pieces of the environment to get to areas that hold specific items, bring them 
 back to other characters, or use them on other specific objects to unlock the next objective. Occasionally 
 these missions are broken up by a chase sequence. Chase bits have you running from one of the human 
 characters as they stumble around, trying to snatch you up. These might be amusing distractions, 
 except that you'll often run into pieces of the scenery that aren't easily traversable, even though 
 they appear to be. You end up with a lot of trial and error as you try to find the right path again 
 and again. It doesn't help that some of these sequences feature inconspicuous instant-kill spots. 

  While a few areas of the game have a spot of originality to them, much of Ratatouille is pure formula. 
 The mission designs are repetitive, and the controls are theoretically designed for such ease of 
 use that you'd expect the game to practically play itself. That's just in theory, mind you. In 
 actuality, Ratatouille's controls are anything but easy. The game uses the same mechanic that allows 
 you to essentially glue yourself to narrow ledges and tightropes that the other console versions 
 of the game use, but its reliability is suspect. Often you'll hit the button as you think you're 
 right above a platform or tightrope, and end up plummeting to your death anyway. The only explanation 
 seems to be that the game is quite picky about where you are when you hit the button, but it's 
 tough to gauge where that is because the camera is such a gigantic pain. It often won't let you 
 frame shots properly (it will frequently get hung up on set pieces and walls) , so you're left to 
 guesstimate if you've reached the proper distance to make the jump.  

  That's not the only aspect of Ratatouille that feels sloppy. You'll run into semifrequent instances 
 of characters clipping through pieces of the environment. It's especially bad when Remy is trying 
 to stand on something and ends up clipping right through it or bouncing off some invisible wall. 
 Occasionally Remy will even get stuck in things he clips through, forcing you to restart the mission. 
 There's even a control mechanic that seems to do absolutely nothing. In the other console versions, 
 Remy can use his refined sense of smell to detect where he goes next (denoted by a bright blue 
 scent trail showing you where to go) . In the 360 version, Remy will start sniffing air, and then 
 nothing happens. No scent trail, no anything. It appears to be a completely nonfunctioning feature. 

  None of this even speaks to the mission designs, which can get quite irritating, especially at 
 later stages of the game. Nothing says "game for kids" like 10-minute-long combinations of multiple 
 mission goals that all have to be completed in one sitting, without falling off anything and dying, 
 lest you have to start the whole thing over again. Or how about areas that combine slippery ice 
 surfaces, blowing fans, tightrope walking, and irritable enemy crabs all into one infuriating experience? 
 It's as if nobody involved in the making of this game actually had it play-tested for the target 
 audience, because it's hard to envision anyone, young or old, suffering through some of these missions 
 without just giving up after a short while.  

  Assuming you're a masochist and willing to deal with this nonsense, you'll bust through the story 
 mode in an afternoon. Once you're done, there's a series of unlockable minigames to play with. 
 Some of these are single-player-only versions of the chase missions from the story, but most of 
 them are multiplayer affairs that have you racing, collecting, and smashing things in a variety 
 of arenas. Unfortunately, these games are almost universally lame. There are a few mildly amusing 
 distractions here and there, but many of them are so stump-dumb or broken-feeling that winning 
 feels less earned and more based on pure luck. Even when they're not broken, they're still not 
 much fun.  

           The minigame selection is rather pathetic.      

  There's not a great deal to please the eyes or ears in Ratatouille. Voice acting is about the best 
 thing the audio has going for it, including some solid performances by actors from the film like 
 Patton Oswalt and Brian Dennehy. Unfortunately, there's not a whole lot of it, and very little 
 of the dialogue is anywhere near as clever or amusing as what the film offers, and what is there 
 tends to overlap itself, turning the dialogue into a cacophonous mess at times. Graphically, the 
 game displays a few nice touches. The environments seem appropriately large, and some of the animations, 
 especially those of Linguini as he hacks together various dishes, are mildly amusing. But everything 
 else in the game looks bland. Remy's movements are stiff, most of the human movements are even 
 stiffer, and environmental detail is minimal. Also, if you happen to be playing the game on an 
 HDTV, the only real difference you'll notice is that lighting is slightly better, and the fur on 
 the various rats is more detailed. Otherwise, this might as well be an original Xbox game.  

  There is no version of Ratatouille that is worth wholeheartedly recommending, but the Xbox 360 
 version is most definitely the one to be most actively avoided. It's just as uninspired as its 
 other console counterparts, and it has the added demerit of feeling unfinished in several spots. 
 It's too frustrating for kids and too brain-dead for adults, making it appealing to no one.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Warchild
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  What can I say. This game is not for kids, not in the least, unless they have a future in government 
 sanctioned torture. I already knew it was more difficult than its target audience was going to 
 be able to handle, but I couldn't even finish the game. Not so much for the difficulty, but for 
 the poor mission design, and the finish the level or start over 80's game design. I can put up 
 with a few quirks, but after getting halfway through the second stage, I didn't want to play it 
 anymore. 
  
  Other things had me scratching my head. The snappy dialogue from the beginning of the game was 
 gone, except for the annoying chef telling me a thousand times to collect tokens to open up missions. 
 Also, what is with the stink bugs, cats and dogs? They weren't even in the movie. They should at 
 least have watched the movie to get inspiration. The camera doesn't like walls, so you'll find 
 your self straining to see what Remy is jumping into. And the tightrope mechanic is just plain 
 buggy.
  
  Overall, this games a mess. It kept my 2 year old entertained for about 30 minutes till he heard 
 daddy cussing at the stupid rat. Pass this one over folks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Ahh, Ratatouille... how you failed in your fun factor for the age group your meant for. Your chase 
 scenes have invisible barriers and your exploration is limited and cause severe punishment to the 
 playful youths who don't consult former players of you. Lets review:
  
  Gameplay: 6/10
  
  Ratatouille's controls are exactly the same as any other platformer on the market, but the 
 glitches in the game make this game a little more harder to swallow than most. First, chase scenes 
 feature bugs that if you hit certain parts of the walkway, you will instantly die and have to restart 
 from a checkpoint. Second, some things in the game world will have it where you can never land 
 from a jump, making you have to reset your game (go back to the main menu) . Finally, the biggest 
 flaw has to be the save system. Why is there no saving option in the pause menu. I am deeply sorry 
 if I don't have time to sit around and play Ratatouille for hours, but it would be nice to have 
 a save option... seeing how its 2007 and all... However, all of those complaints aside, the game 
 features a nice set of mini-games, and a good entertaining story to play. Graphics: 7/10
  
  The graphics are nothing special in Ratatouille. The game features some HD enhanced stuff, but 
 you will find better graphics in many other games on the 360. I will note that the fur on the characters 
 looks amazing, and seems to be what they focused on in the graphics dept. for the 360 version.
 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The music of Ratatouille was actually enjoyable, since it had a nice french tone to it the entire 
 game, and each world had a different tune, unlike some games where they have the same tune the 
 entire game. I loved the voice acting in the game. It was never annoying, thanks to the efforts 
 of the original cast in not making this a phoned-in project.
  
  Value: 6/10 The game has some length to it if you focus on collecting everything, and it also features 
 a trailer for Pixar's next film: Wall-E. The minigames are somewhat fun to play over and over. 
 For achievement lovers, make sure you grab a guide for this puppy, because if you miss one charm 
 or achievement that is required to get in a mission, you have to RESTART THE GAME. This is really 
 crazy when its at the end of the game, which I actually had to do. For parents looking for a game 
 to play with their kids, this one is a buy. Tilt: 7/10
  
  I liked the movie, so I enjoyed the game as much as the movie. The storyline in the game was much 
 more together than Disney's last movie tie-in I reviewed (Pirates 3 for 360) , and the gameplay was 
 simple and fun. Would I play it again? sure, but on another console, like the Wii or PSP since 
 I already got the achievements for it on Xbox 360.
  
  Overall: 6.7/10
  
  For fans of the movie and those looking for a family type game only. Everyone else either rent 
 it, or move along to another title (like Halo 3 or Gears of War or the 200 other Xbox 360 games 
 out there...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  The only reason I picked up Ratatouille from the store shelf was that I needed a refresher of sorts 
 to back-up and regenerate the seroius mind-frame that I develop by continually playing action, 
 horror and mission-oriented games, and by my Xbox 360, I didn't regret it... The graphics are all 
 they should be. the sound effects are the best part, voice-acting is good, I guess you don't need 
 more reasons to buy a 3D platformer. Moreover a guy like me, who buys just two platformers in 6 
 months won't do any injustice to Ratatouille calling it a lowdown. One thing I never understood 
 was the sidelining of the Xbox 360 version of the game by the critics, Xbox 360 is the best gaming 
 machine out there, and if a game can't be good on the 360, I suppose its childish (yeah, that's 
 the best word I could think of) , to say its better on other platforms. Crazy world and its crazy 
 people...... I'd better be a chef as a rat than a human who criticizes Ratatouille... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
