-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rayman Raving Rabbids
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/rayman4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Rabbids.
 lots of quirky, offbeat minigames.
 more rabbids.
 plenty of legitimately funny humor.
 so many, many rabbids.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game doesn't feel like it was built with an Xbox 360 controller in mind.
 camera support is subpar.
 minigames tend to repeat the same formulas a bit too often.
 multiplayer is rather limited for a party game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.7, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 343 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montpellie
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Apr 24, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rayman Raving Rabbids is a fairly simple collection of minigames that manages to win you over largely 
 on the merit of its personality. 

  Released alongside the launch of the Nintendo Wii, Rayman Raving Rabbids took Ubisoft's mascot 
 platformer hero, Rayman, and shoved him into a world filled with bizarre minigames and evil, screeching 
 bunnies. Not that the Wii launch was hurting for minigame collections, but Raving Rabbids was a 
 success, simply because it combined its hilariously strange characters and the Wii's motion sensing 
 technology into a highly playable and goofily enjoyable game. Now, months after the Wii release, 
 as well as subsequent PC and PlayStation 2 ports of the game, Raving Rabbids has made its way to 
 the Xbox 360. This is still a minigame collection, but nearly all of the motion-sensing controls 
 have been replaced with the 360's analog sticks and trigger buttons, save for a few that support 
 the Xbox Live Vision camera. While this does leave you stuck playing the majority of the games 
 with a controller, Raving Rabbids still remains amusing almost entirely because of the hilarious 
 personality of those nasty rabbids.  

          Say it with us now:      

  When Raving Rabbids opens, 
 Rayman is having a picnic with some of his globox pals. Suddenly, the happy picnic is interrupted 
 by a violent rumbling. This turns out to be the tunneling of several rabbids -- vacant, buck-toothed 
 bunny creatures that apparently want to take over the world. Rayman and the globoxes are kidnapped, 
 and Rayman is forced to entertain the masses of rabbids by performing in gladiatorial combat. Of 
 course, gladiatorial combat in this case means playing a variety of silly, utterly random minigames 
 for hours on end.  

  Every single minigame in Raving Rabbids has you using some combination of analog stick movements 
 and button presses to perform completely insane tasks. Trying to list them all would be an exercise 
 in excess. To toss out a few ridiculous examples, one game tasks you with drawing over an outlined 
 image on the screen, which then creates some kind of food for a hungry rabbid, like a can of sardines, 
 or perhaps a baseball; another is basically a game of whack-a-mole, where several rabbids sit inside 
 multiple bathroom stalls, and you have to repeatedly move the pointer back and forth across the 
 screen, tapping the A button to slap shut the stall doors; yet another is a Dance Dance Revolution-style 
 musical sequence where you use the left and right trigger buttons to hit in time as various bunnies 
 dance onto the stage and hit timed markers; and another still is a hammer-throw minigame where 
 you spin the left analog stick around, while onscreen, Rayman violently spins a cow -- not a hammer -- around 
 and around, attempting to time the release to hit the playing field and gain as much distance as 
 possible. The Xbox 360 version also includes a few exclusive minigames, which are all based on 
 the standard formulas found in the other minigames. For example, there's a basketball minigame 
 that uses identical mechanics to the cow-tossing minigame, but now you toss the cow into one of 
 a few moving basketball hoops. There's nothing earth-shattering in the new games, but it's nice 
 that they are included.  

  Apart from the new, exclusive games, all these same minigames appeared in the Wii version of Raving 
 Rabbids, but they employed the more tactile movements of the Wii Remote and Nunchuk instead of 
 buttons and analog stick movements. This is a game in which motion controls are definitely the 
 preferred control method. It's not that the 360 controls are bad, but they're just not as engaging. 
 For instance, in the dancing minigame you simply use the trigger buttons to time the hits, which 
 makes the game really easy, even on the harder difficulty levels. Other games, such as the whack-a-mole 
 bathroom game, are a touch hard to deal with, simply because you have to try to move a cursor back 
 and forth between the different stall doors. With the Wii, the movement was tactile and felt right, 
 but here it feels too quick (as opposed to too slow in the PS2 version) , and it's a bit unwieldy 
 when you're trying to stop on a specific door. Basically, it feels like this game wasn't designed 
 with analog sticks and buttons in mind. Even if the Wii version had never been released, the control 
 interface presented here wouldn't translate especially well with the way these minigames are designed. 
 The good news is that the games are still generally fun, but you definitely lose something in translation. 

  The Xbox 360 version of Raving Rabbids does try to compensate for all of this by including support 
 for the Xbox Live Vision camera. Not all of the minigames included in Raving Rabbids are playable 
 with the camera, but you can play a good chunk of them. Most of these camera-based games simply 
 substitute the trigger-button functions with hand movements. Any game where your job is to hit 
 the triggers as quickly as possible has you now waving both your hands up and down in a frantic 
 motion within a pair of boxes that display onscreen. Other variations include versions of the hammer-throwing, 
 jump rope, and dancing games. As neat of an idea as this is, the camera control doesn't always 
 translate well. It takes a while to figure out how fast you should be moving your hands to get 
 the game to register the movements properly in most of the speed-based games, while the dancing 
 games feel kind of broken when you try to play this way. You have to hit individual boxes on the 
 left and right of the screen each time a rabbid hits a marker, but it always seems like you're 
 hitting too early or too late. It doesn't help that you have to sort of fumble around trying to 
 find a good stationary position for your hands when you're not hitting the boxes in time with the 
 music. Ultimately, the camera isn't the ideal way to control the game, but in the few games where 
 it actually works decently, it can be fun.  

          Adding camera support wasn't a terrible idea, but it's not implemented very well in the 
 majority of the minigames.     

  As fun as the minigames can be, the comedy of the game is what sells it -- and this aspect remains 
 just about as good as ever on the Xbox 360. The rabbids themselves are almost exclusively responsible 
 for this, as they are, without a doubt, hysterical. They're adorably designed, with their dumb 
 stares, high-pitched shrieks, and a penchant for taking comedic bumps. For some reason, they're 
 totally obsessed with plungers and will often use them as a weapon against you. The best parts 
 of the game, both from a gameplay perspective and a comedy perspective, are the first-person rail-shooting 
 missions that take more than a few cues from on-rails light gun games like The House of the Dead 
 and Time Crisis. Each stage is themed after one thing or another, like an Old West ghost town or 
 a creepy cemetery, and the bunnies often take after these scenes, coming after you with cowboy 
 hats and plunger six-shooters, for example. Or, sometimes, the bunnies just go in totally random 
 directions, like the Splinter Cell-styled bunnies that sneak around, wearing Sam Fisher's token 
 night-vision goggles. All the while, you're guiding an aiming reticle and firing off plungers at 
 advancing rabbids. Overall, these sequences are a great bit of fun, even if they do repeat a few 
 of the same gags a few too many times.  

  In fact, the single-player mode tends to get a bit repetitive when you move into the later stages, 
 because the game starts tossing in variants of the same minigames you've already played. The process 
 of getting through the single-player game also has a very lather-rinse-repeat kind of progression 
 to it. Each segment is broken out into four available minigames, at least three of which you have 
 to complete to unlock the final game, which is usually one of the first-person shooter sequences 
 or a race of some sort. You keep going through these chunks of games over and over again until 
 you've beaten them, and that's about it. That will take at least a few hours, but once you're done, 
 you probably won't want to go back to it.  

  It's good, then, that the game supports the ability to go back to individual games you are rather 
 fond of, as well as multiplayer. To be clear, not every minigame in Raving Rabbids can be played 
 in simultaneous multiplayer. Many of the games are sequenced multiplayer, where players take turns 
 and try to get the highest score, and others are exclusively for two players. However, the good 
 news is that the ones that do work simultaneously are quite fun when played with friends. Sometimes 
 the directions for the games aren't clear, specifically in explaining how a game differs in multiplayer 
 versus single-player, but it's not as if anything this game does is complicated.  

  One annoying quirk about Raving Rabbids on the Xbox 360 is that it doesn't include any sort of 
 online leaderboard system for its score mode. It still uses the janky, Web-based code system that 
 has you entering your scores into an online database. Would it have been so difficult to set up 
 a basic Xbox Live leaderboard system?  

  In terms of presentation, the Xbox 360 version of Raving Rabbids is, perhaps unsurprisingly, the 
 best looking of all versions released thus far. It's crisper, sharper, and more colorful than any 
 of the other versions. However, again, on some level that is to be expected. But when you compare 
 it with other Xbox 360 games, it's not much of a technical powerhouse. Additionally, the various 
 loading screens and other pre-rendered videos in the game run at an extremely low resolution, so 
 you'll see a ton of artifacting and blurring if you're running the game in HD. On the flip side, 
 Raving Rabbids does have a lot of visual charm, simply because of the character design and the 
 way it's animated. The rabbids are bloody adorable, and the way they constantly fall all over the 
 place, run around like screaming lunatics, and generally do silly stuff, it's hard not to fall 
 in love with them. The game also does some nice stuff with level designs, creating some colorful 
 scenery that backdrops the action nicely. Ultimately, while the game's no masterpiece of graphical 
 design, the style does a lot to make up for those technical shortcomings.  

          The 360 version is definitely the sharpest looking of all the various Raving Rabbids iterations 
 out there.     

  The audio is on a similar level. There's not much that's impressive here, but the cheery in-game 
 music and the rather strange but totally captivating licensed soundtrack (with versions of "Misirlou," 
 "Girls Just Want to Have Fun," and "Hip Hop Hooray," among others) do a lot to keep things interesting. 
 The totally wacky screams of the rabbids are also oddly amusing. Normally stuff like this comes 
 off as grating, but whoever did the audio for the rabbids totally nailed it.  

  All told, Rayman Raving Rabbids on the Xbox 360 makes for a good collection of minigames, one made 
 more appealing by the adorably evil rabbids contained within. The Xbox 360 control scheme definitely 
 feels haphazard in spots and the camera support is shoddy at best. But when played with a controller, 
 the gameplay still manages to be amusing, and the game's sense of humor goes a long way toward 
 making any control issues forgivable. If you own a Wii and can seek out that version, it's the 
 ideal one to get. But the 360 version will do you just fine in a pinch.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  Never in my life had I laughed so much for a bunch of bunnies. 
  
  The game doesn't really offer you a lot in terms of story, but in terms of some really funny mini 
 games... you gotta love it.
  
  Rayman has been captured by the bunnies and you have to complete tasks to escape from jail. The 
 main quest can take you about 3 hours to complete if you really really good, but a normal player 
 will do it in about 6. The Story isn't the strong point though.
  
  With several mini games at your disposal you can gave a RRR party at your house any day. You'll 
 have a laugh and keep your guests well entertained.
  
  The graphics were a little bit mediocre and unprofessional, but with a game like this, I don't 
 think you should expect more. Sound wise, the game does offer a few good music tracks and a lot 
 of Bunny Yelling.
  
  Good game for a party, and to keep your little Cuz busy, but nothing ground breaking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is the first rayman game ive played and I must say probably the only one I ever will. 
 The game is very simple, the graphics are ok, but without the cam to do the movements without the 
 controller, the game is completely boring. It said to click the button over and over until u get 
 to a sertain place..... wait..... whats the chalange in that. Answer: None. This game should include 
 the cam, or have a big sticker that says "MUST BUY CAM OR THIS GAME WILL BE SO EASY. The whole 
 game if you didn't know are mini games, around like 60 or 70 of them, there all ok ones. The loading 
 screens I must say though are very anoying, there are only like 4 of them for one thing, and they 
 repeat themselves over and over with the anoying rabbids sounds. A decent game but DO NOT GET UNLESS 
 U HAVE THE CAM! or get it for wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sim_genius
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  As many know Rayman Raving Rabbids was one of the launch titles for the Nintendo Wii last year. 
 The crazy mini-games, the extremely bizarre yet adorable rabbids and the crazy plot made it a great 
 and fun experience. Ubisoft; however, decided to port the game to other consoles.
  
  To be considered a party game, there is a lot of focus on single-player component. That part is 
 relatively long depending on how you look at it: the mini-games aren't that long but what made 
 the game dull so many times were the loading times. Sometimes you feel as if they last longer than 
 the actuall mini-games. 
  
  Now let's talk about the mini-games. On the Wii, these games take full advantage of that Wii-remote 
 control, on the Xbox 360, you just have to play it with the control which is why most of the games 
 feel lifeless. And they do, not only the fun aspect was taken away, but in some cases you will 
 find yourself cursing the game for not being responsive enough or for implementing a control scheme 
 that is ridiculous. 
  
  The bunnies do retain their quirkiness but with a lousy interface, Rayman Raving Rabbids has lost 
 its charm completely. Don't bother playing this version, the Wii version is definitely the best 
 and it's the way this game is meant to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  Let me make it clear. I love all my systems. I know what games I like on which. So when I heard 
 this game was coming to 360 even though I had it for Wii I thought I'd play it (hey HD rocks right?) . 
 Wow what a ashame.
  
  Basically RRR is a game about... well.... minigames! All done in a comedic style based the Rayman 
 game series. You use your controller in various ways to complete mini games like throw a cow as 
 far as you can by twirling the joystick around and around real fast then hitting a button. Or hitting 
 certain buttons in order to sneak up on a guard as fast as possible while he keeps looking back 
 (without getting caught) .
  
  The problem is these controls are horrid and impossibly hard to do. Some games are easy and most 
 are just incredibly hard since your not sure what it is you are trying to do even though you know 
 the buttons. Its like it wants some magical perfect move on the controller. So unless you got hundreds 
 of hours to dedicate to figuring out the perfect formula, better off buying this for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  Well about this game is what I don't know, I ended up trade in it but it was ok not my favorite. 
 Rayman Raving Rabbids marks the return of the iconic video-game hero, Rayman, in his funniest and 
 zaniest adventure ever. When the world of Rayman is threatened by a devastating invasion of crazed, 
 out-of-control bunnies Rayman must rise up against his furry foes to foil their wicked plans. Utilizing 
 an array of amazing new abilities, and with the help of magical creatures, Rayman must break out 
 all the moves to save his world from these delirious bunnies and their hare-raising antics. Combat 
 the Ultra-Crazed Evil Rabbits  Take control of Rayman and his knack for attack to help save his 
 world from the raving rabbids. They are mischievous, insane and completely out of control. There 
 are several types of rabbids each with its own mischievous characteristics. Master and Ride Creatures 
  Tame and control various creatures such as sharks, eagles, rhinos, spiders and angelfish. Rayman 
 can master each animals unique capabilities to help in his battle against the devious rabbits. 
 Dress to Impress- Customize and disguise Rayman. Go punk, pop, rock or hip hop to infiltrate the 
 bunnies and foil their devious plans. Explore the Colorful Fantastic World of Rayman  Explore amazing 
 free-roaming environments and beautiful epic landscapes that mix real and fantastical styles to 
 create a visually stunning experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treb3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  well i beat the game 2 freaking days after I bought it and it was fun while it lasted and it still 
 kinda does. i mean all the challenges to complete but the graphics and that next gen the was kinda 
 of a disappointment. the music awesome I guess, but they coulden't include more classic rayman 
 gameplay or more of those awsome shooter levels, but since it is only 20 bucks it is worth your 
 money. also did I mention the rabbids yes the awesome rabbids is what keeps this game from the 
 pits of hell. but still you should go pick this up. its fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Good collection of mini games, unique controls for each game, well executed story more, 
 solid graphics, shooting and dancing sequences are especially well done.
  
  The Bad: Some mini games are tough or annoying, silly load screens repeat too often, games don't 
 play as well as they would for Wii.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Rayman is back for the first time on the Xbox 360. Rayman Raving Rabbids from Ubisoft ventures 
 into the party game genre, and does a good job, but the game was designed from the begining for 
 the Nintendo Wii, and it shows with the Xbox 360 port. You play as Rayman, who is captured by the 
 Raving Rabbids, and forced to partisipate in challenges for the rabbids' ammusement. Basically, 
 you play through three of four possable mini games to go on to a final game, and you keep playing 
 until you finish the game. The good news is that the mini games themselves are well done and easy 
 to get into, but it is evident that they would all play much better on the Wii than using the Xbox 
 360 motion sentiveless controller. You do everything from milk a cow, to dance, to shooting, to 
 racing. There's plenty of variety in the mini games available.
  
  So the game itself is fun, and it doesn't have that much negitive about it, but I do have a few 
 complaints. First, the somewhat humorous load screens featuring the rabbids in strange situations 
 are funny, but there aren't many of them and they repeat constantly, so they get old really fast. 
 Second, there is no online multiplayer, which all party games should have for the Xbox 360. Third, 
 the single player is pretty short. I've played for maybe four or so hours and am over half way 
 through the single player. This is a game that is fun for a while, but can get old pretty fast. 
 It basically depends on how much you like the mini games.
  
  Other than that and the fact that the game plays better on the Wii, there isn't much more to say 
 about Rayman. It's a fun game that can give you several hours of enjoyment, but it can get old 
 after a while.
  
  Gameplay: The mini games are fun, but get repetitive and old after a while.
  
  Graphics: Suprisingly 
 good.
  
  Sound: Funny diolog, sound effects and good music.
  
  Value: It's only $20 new, but it's tough to even pay that much for a game that you could get bored 
 of in a few hours.
  
  Final Thoughts: Bunnies Like Dancing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosXing
Rating: 5.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Shooting cute things is always a blast -- but the rabbids in Rayman Raving Rabbids are anything but 
 cute. Bad teeth, high screeching voices, bug-eyed stares, and stupidity abound. So shooting them 
 is almost more satisfying than shooting something cute. Youll feel Darwinianeradicating an idiot 
 species for the good of the Earths collective IQ. After half an hour, though, youll pretty much 
 understand what the game has to offer and grow tired of it.
  
  Its easy to become frustrated with the XBox360 version of the game. Sometimes you can't move the 
 cursor with the analog stick fast enough to reach your desired objective. (This must be where the 
 Wii version excels.) The mini-games become repetitive, especially in story mode. At the end of 
 each level you have to complete a final mission, either a race or an arcade-style shootout with 
 a plunger gun, to win that round and continue on. There isn't any deviation in the way each end 
 race or shoot-em-up goes, other than that the background is different.
  
  Also, there are only sixteen boring achievements, almost as if they were tacked on as an afterthought. 
 The same seems to apply for the mini-games that support XBox Live Vision. The developers seem to 
 only have done the bare minimum to make this game work on the 360, rather than take the 360's advantages 
 and tune the game to them to make the experience more exciting and enjoyable. Even the humor becomes 
 stale and repetitive after awhile. Theres only so many times you can listen to a rabid scream 
 in terror before it feels like a garden trowel driven into your frontal lobe.
  
  Despite the multitude of mini-games and funny moments, these are just not enough positives to counteract 
 any of the negatives in this version of Rayman Raving Rabbids. The problems and annoyances pop 
 their heads up like an infestation of gophers in the front lawn -- there's one everywhere you turn. 
 Dont waste your time or money on this game for the XBox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  If you have a Wii and and xbox 360, do yourself a favor and play the Wii version. It's very clear 
 this game was made with that system in mind.
  
  I'll just say that I found this game to be nothing more than a simple cash-in on Nintendo's motion 
 control. So it's clear it should be on the 360.
  
  Gameplay: VERY simple, very repetative. That'd be fine for little kids, but some of the games are 
 really hard to pass. So that's a real problem. And some of the mini-games are not fun, at all, 
 so that's also a problem. Controls were OK for the most part, but seemed inappropriate. See comments 
 above.
  
  The game is basically a set of mini-games that you play. For the most part, its just a handful 
 of games that vary a bit from stage to stage, so ya, it gets very boring, very quickly.
  
  sound: OK, nothing special.
  Story: It's a little kids story. Kids may like it. Everyone else 
 won't care. I will say that there is a bit of character to this game that adds some fun to it, 
 and ultimately allowed me to put up with the sometimes awful mini-games.
  
  Value: There is none. It's a short repetative game with pretty much no story. Woth buying? Not 
 a chance. Worth Renting? no, not unless you have a Wii to play it on. The mini-games are too few, 
 too simple, and yet too hard for some. So it's hard to tell who their audience is. Dont' get me 
 wrong, most minigames are VERY easy. But there's the odd one that no little kid is going to pass 
 without help, which is why I think there's a problem here. The section on difficulty I put just 
 right, but It really should be inconsistent .
  
  It's very clear to me this game was just to cash in on Nintendo's system. It's a game with serious 
 gameplay flaws and very little redeeming qualities. There's some fun to be had here, mainly for 
 non-gamers and kids, but only as a rental I'd say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  The game has it's moments, but the control is boring becuase the game was meant for the Wii. The 
 game is great on the Wii, but it is boring on the 360. It is funny, but the frantic fun is lost 
 becuase the controller is bland. The graphics are horrible for the 360, and the sound is meh. The 
 best thing about the game, though, is the FPS levels, they are crazy fun. So, this game is super 
 funny, and has it's moments, but the fun is very low due to the controller controls vs. the Wii 
 controlls on the Wii. I recommend buying the Wii versian. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennisacerg
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Like the Gamespot review says, the mini-games do follow the same formulas quite often. For instance, 
 there are quite a few games that require you to pull the left and right triggers alternating as 
 fast as you can. Another example is that many of the games require you to race or steer something, 
 with pressing B being your limited turbo.
  
  If you are buying this to use the camera, DON'T! The camera is very unresponsive, which makes it 
 difficult to use the camera. However, the game is way easier with the controller anyways.
  
  Overall, it is a good game.
  
  I got it for $20 at Best Buy, so that was a value for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Rayman Raving Rabids is essentially a collection of minigames involving small strange bunnies. 
 The games are fairly uninteresting and not difficult. The graphics are O. K., and the only thing 
 that makes this game playable is its unique character. One of the minigames is to run around shooting 
 bunnies with a plunger gun. The gameplay is horrible, but it is incredibly amusing to see a bunny 
 fall over with a plunger on its face. The minigames stretch from shutting doors on porti-potties, 
 to throwing cows, to kicking rabbits like soccerballs. This game would be highly if you are under 
 the age of 10 and have an incredible obscure and juvenile sense of humor. Overall a horrible game 
 that I wouldn't recommend to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felix2407
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant to check out Rayman Raving Rabbids due to the fact that its intended for a younger 
 audience. Then I realized that I am in my 30's and still play video games... nuff said.
  
  Gameplay:
  I loved the fact that the game started right away. It seems almost every game these 
 days has a huge epic intro, this was not said case. After a brief intro I was playing my first 
 mini game. The games do start off at a rather easy pace, but they are clever and still fun to play. 
 Each game has its own set of instructions and vary enough so the game does not become boring. I 
 even got brave enough to hook up the Xbox LIVE Vision Camera, but quickly realized this was a game 
 feature that needs tweaking. I never was able to get Raman to do what I needed him to do and i 
 got tired of everyone laughing at me while I tried to get the darn thing to work. I quickly switched 
 back to the controller and was back in business. Graphics:
  Yes there are graphics in this game.... and they are quite good. No real issues that I witnessed. 
 Sound:
  This is where the game really shines. The Rabbids are already funny to look at, but when combined 
 with sounds, they are a real hoot. Yes, I just used the word hoot.
  
  Buy VS Rent:
  Definitely rent... you will finish this in one sitting or over a weekend.
  
  Gamerscore:
  
 If you need to boost your GS but don't want to spend 3 days trying to find that secret orb that 
 gives you 50 points, then RRR is for you. It has 1000 points to offer and they are fairly easy 
 to get. Summary:
  This game gives you variety, a bucket of laughs, and helps your gamer score. Its not Halo, but 
 it is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Bam
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first received Rayman RR from gamefly I thought Well it was critically acclaimed by reviewers 
 for the Wii so this should be fun , instead the end result were choppy graphics that were way below 
 360 quality, a very unintuitive Xbox Live Vision Camera control scheme, and an assortment of repetitive 
 mini games. Now I will admit that some of the games were enjoyable when i first started playing, 
 the on rails shooting games and even the dancing ones were fun for a little while, but looking 
 at the same loading screens and seeing how choppy and unclear they looked were far from impressive 
 and the live vision cam controls worked with some games but poorly with most of them. After spending 
 the course of an afternoon playing and finishing this game I came to realize the game is definitely 
 made for the Wii's controls and just a standered gaming controller. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The game starts out where u have the option to do 4 mini games - you have to do them 
 all eventually and then you get to the next area and do them minigames. Some of the minigames are 
 actually fun now , but when they keep putting the same ones over and over in the game you get sick 
 of them easily. The shootout levels also feel like they were made for the wii only . Graphics - 
 Not that great , they look good enough - but defintly also seems like they came straight out of 
 the wii version
  
  Sound - lots of licensed music , which is overused way too much Value - no multiplayer at all
 
  
  Good Tilt - rayman is a cool character 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ozman666
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 25, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  Well simply put this is a childrens game. However at the age of twenty-one it becomes one hell 
 of a drinking game. This game has it all for the family. I don't suggest playing the drinking game 
 with your kid, but its pretty fast paced for a childrens game. The graphics are great and it's 
 well entertaining. From flinging cows like basketballs, to jumping rope/chain to following the 
 on screen button requests to get Raymond to dance his ass off. The rabbits are a pain in the butt 
 though but the game all in it's self is well worth the money when you have nothing better to do 
 but sit around and do nothing but vegg out in front of the TV. The Learning curve for the game 
 is rather easy. Graphics are cool for a cartoon. Button control boils down to fine tuned hand and 
 eye coordination. So if you want a game for you child this will be money well spent. Or if you 
 wish to have a bit of fun with in the college dorms this is a good start. Just keep in mind Be 
 Patient it becomes a bit frustrating at time but you do feel better about yourself after you complete 
 a section of the game. Also to add the lay out of the game in an arena and multiple doors at you 
 feet you get to chose what you want to do with out a pre-mapped story line. Hey come on its a 
 Raymond game what more do you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 23, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 7: The gameplay in RRR revoloves around multiple mini games that usually repeat the same 
 formula a lot. There are the work out games, which involve hitting buttons really fast, there are 
 the dancing mini games which involve hitting buttons at perfect timing to get a high score, and 
 there is the bunny hunt games which are sort of like a little rail shooter that involves shooting 
 plungers at bunnies. There are a few other types of games like flying through rings, milking cows, 
 etc. but those are not especially enojyable. The dancing and bunny hunt games by far the coolest 
 games are pretty neat, but can get repeative quickly. That's the biggest problem with the story 
 mode. In each challenge there is always one dnacing game and one Bunny Hunter game. The mini games 
 some more enjoyable than others are still for the most part executed pretty well. Overall though 
 they could certaintly improve on a lot of the games mini games. Graphics 7: Not any kind of step 
 up whatsoever from the PS2 version, except maybe a little better textures. The graphics are ok, 
 but definetly don't showcase any kind of graphics that the 360 is capable of. Sound 7: Pretty much 
 basic stuff. Nice little sound effect of the bunnies screaming, and some cool music, but none of 
 the sound effects or music is especilly great. Value 6: RRR is a really short single player game, 
 taking at most, seven or eight hours to finish. There is a score mode and pletny of achievments 
 for that, which are actually quite challenging, and may take a lot of time, but most people will 
 probablly just get the 450 gamerscore from the story, then be done with it. It seems silly that 
 there is no xbox live for this game, and I think it really could have benefited from some online 
 action. Tilt 9: This is where RRR elevates itself above pretty much every party game ever made. 
 The rabbids are simply hillarious, as is the humor in the game. This game really has a lot of personality 
 and the rabids really make for some of the most interesting characters ever in a game. Overall 
 7.5/10 While most of the gameplay in RRR is pretty much average the funny humor and personality 
 make up for most of the flaws that the mini games have. However RRR is still a short game with 
 no Xbox live, so the game is worth playing but really is only worth renting as it can be beaten 
 in a few days. Overall RRR is probablly the best Mario party type game ever, and despite the mini 
 game flaws and underwhelming graphics, is still an enjoyable, hillarious game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UtkarshDave
Rating: 4.6
Date: May 18, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The only real reason I bought it was because I was jonesing for a new game, and I wanted something 
 that wasn't another FPS or driving game. I really wanted to like this game.
  
  And for a while, I convinced myself that I did. But then the truth sunk in.
  
  The so-so graphics 
 are, for lack of a better word, fruity. I know this is supposed to be a cartoony styled game, but 
 it could have at least been done with a bit more pizazz.
  
  The sound of the rabbids screaming all the time is extremely grating. The original music is passable, 
 but the licensed tracks are just obnoxious for the most part.
  
  The minigames themselves are either far too easy or far too frustrating. And all of them are way 
 too short and undercooked. And each game follows the formula of a dozen or so game styles, so you'll 
 just end up doing the same button mashing over and over. And I know every review says this, but 
 this game just wasn't made for a 360 controller. It's awkward and infuriating at times.
  
  And for a title packed with minigames, multiplayer is surprisingly limiting and uninvolving.
 
  
  Before I originally popped it in, I told myself that the game's humor might make up for it's shortcomings. 
 It does not. There is no real good solid comedy in this game. The rabbids are annoying. The items 
 a player use are things like cows and plungers. Har dee har har.
  
  A waste of time and money. I can't wait to trade it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xbox360-gamer
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 10, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game for parties and stuff. This is also really fun when u have a family member 
 around or a friend around you. These funny little bunnies will keep you laughing! The mini game 
 that are in here will keep you busy for weeks. The cow basketball and the dancing are some of the 
 BEST! Rayman raving rabbids once again follow the great rayman series. the best consoles to play 
 this game on is the xbox 360 and the Wii. The xbox 360 version has revolutionary graphics but the 
 gameplay is sort of rough in some areas. The wii has adapted really well to rayman raving rabbids 
 because of the sensor system.. makes the game A LOT more interesting. If i were u, i would still 
 get the xbox 360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pbkick1
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 4, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  While fun for a few hours Rayman raving Rabbits gets very boring and repetitive. The main story 
 (if you could call it a story) only takes about 4 hours to complete. There is a score mode but 
 its just not worth playing. The Achievements are poorly implemented. The whole game is only good 
 four 550/1000 with the other 450 only obtainable by mini game gods. To add salt to the wound, one 
 of my 50 point achievements glitches and never unlocked. (Tip to anyoneonly save in your jail 
 cell!!)
  
  The Xbox Vision support is bad. I spent more time trying to get the game to recognize me than actual 
 playing. My final thought for Raman is thatif you have a Wii get that version!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This is the type of game that has forced my hand into renting games only. I don't buy them anymore 
 and this game is a typical example. Although I came close to buying this game I am glad I didn't. 
 It is so repetitious and boring that after two days of this game, especially if you beat story 
 mode, the game is pretty much over. Score mode is so outrageously hard that the acheivements are 
 practically unacheivable. You'll pull the 450 out of story and try for a couple hours on score 
 mode and go, I'm done, bye, bye, glad I didn't buy this one. Thorough waste of money. Good to rent 
 for a weekend but two days is all you'll need to get sick of this one. Score mode would be fun 
 but the requirements to unlock achievements is so outrageous, you might as well try and get your 
 10,000 kills out of Gears of War. Story mode was okay, but the repetitive game play made it feel 
 old and tiresome real quick. I luaghed a couple of times but that consisted all of but about 10 
 minutes worth of gameplay. Highly overrated. Don't look for anything special with this port. It 
 is a straight port so if you played this on Wii, don't even bother picking this up. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
