-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resident Evil 5
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/residentevil5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Beautifully detailed graphics and character animations.
 Having a partner enhances the fun and excitement while adding tension.
 Real-time menu system keeps you immersed.
 Plenty to do once you've beaten it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating hurdles to leap when joining an online game.
 Slow, deliberate movement and gunplay may not appeal to everyone.
 Can't swap weapons with a human teammate online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 58 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 3,690 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Mar 13, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Resident Evil 5 is a fun and frantic evolution of RE4's breakthrough gameplay and the series' horror 
 themes. 

  Thirteen years ago, Capcom helped revolutionize the action-adventure world with Resident Evil, 
 a game that would define an entirely new genre dubbed "survival horror." In the years that followed, 
 the series continued to build upon the standards set by the first game, until 2005, when Resident 
 Evil 4 radically departed from its predecessors and broke new ground as a more action-oriented 
 game. Resident Evil 5, the latest offering in the long-running series, expands on the action-heavy 
 formula of its forerunner and is built from the ground up to support cooperative gameplay. Though 
 it can no longer be considered a survival horror game, Resident Evil 5 manages to retain and effectively 
 translate the most important aspect of that genre -- tension -- into its new mechanics, crafting a 
 fun, collaborative experience that will keep you on your toes the entire time.  

           Hey Sheva, is there a vet around here? 'Cause these pythons are sick!      

  Ten years 
 after the destruction of Raccoon City, former S. T. A. R. S. Alpha team member Chris Redfield is an 
 agent of the B. S. A. A. This paramilitary anti-bio-organic weapon organization travels the globe 
 to seek out and destroy Umbrella's creations, which have fallen into the hands of terrorists following 
 the collapse of the multinational pharmaceutical company. When Chris gets a tip that a known weapons 
 dealer will be making a big deal in the remote African nation of Kijuju, he heads there to put 
 a stop to it and learn what he can about the mysterious doomsday project known only as Uroboros. 
 Chris is joined by Sheva Alomar, a local B. S. A. A. agent, and together they battle wave after wave 
 of infected villagers, horribly mutated monsters, and even series archnemesis Albert Wesker.  

 
  The core combat mechanics haven't fundamentally changed since Resident Evil 4-- the action still 
 unfolds from an over-the-shoulder perspective, certain battles or cutscenes are accompanied by 
 brief quick time events, and you still have to stop moving to fire your weapon (though you gain 
 a bit more mobility thanks to your newfound ability to walk sideways) . Resident Evil 5's slow movement 
 and gunplay take some time to get used to, and folks expecting a run-and-gun game may find the 
 action too sluggish for their tastes. Fortunately, this slowness isn't really an issue within the 
 game, because enemies are deliberate with their attacks and are better handled with a cool head 
 and steady aim.  

  Regardless of how similar the combat in Resident Evil 5 is to its predecessor, the addition of 
 a second character makes encounters feel quite different. Teamwork is necessary to take down more-powerful 
 enemies and bosses, and having someone there to watch your back goes a long way toward keeping 
 you alive. Furthermore, there have been radical changes to the inventory management system. The 
 immersion-breaking briefcase from the previous game is gone, and enemies no longer politely wait 
 for you to rummage through your things because bringing up your armory doesn't pause the action. 
 At any given time, you can store up to nine items per character, four of which are bound to the 
 directions of the D pad for easy access. This new system works extremely well and successfully 
 conveys a sense of urgency whenever you go through your gear. It's often necessary to trade items 
 with your partner, and keeping track of who has what at all times is crucial, because rummaging 
 through your things while a boss beats on you is painful.  

           It's tough to stay frosty in the sweltering heat, but Chris always manages to keep a cool 
 head.      

  Sheva's artificial intelligence makes her a competent companion, though her degree of skill seems 
 to rely more on her armaments than anything else -- she is extremely good at using burst fire with 
 a machine gun, for example, but tends to waste ammo when equipped with a handgun. That said, at 
 no point does she feel like extra baggage that needs babysitting (unlike some of the series' previous 
 companions) , and she can hold her own in a fight. Sheva really shines when there's someone else 
 controlling her. Resident Evil 5 supports both split-screen and online co-op play through Xbox 
 Live and PlayStation Network, and exploring Kijuju with a friend greatly enhances both the experience 
 and the fun factor. Every game has the potential to go multiplayer, since split-screen is as simple 
 to initiate as hitting Start on a second controller, and other online players can join in on a 
 free-for-all or invite-only basis if your game session is set up to allow this from the get-go. 
     

  Despite these conveniences, there are some frustrating hurdles that need to be leaped over before 
 a partner can begin playing. Co-op isn't drop-in, so if someone joins, gameplay is interrupted 
 and immersion is broken to some degree. For split-screen, this means immediately returning to the 
 main inventory screen to confirm armaments and then restarting from the last checkpoint. With online 
 co-op, it's a bit more troublesome, because the player who joined has to sit on the sidelines until 
 the host either restarts from the last checkpoint or continues on to the next. Another major problem 
 is that players' main inventories are isolated from one another, and though you can trade healing 
 items and ammunition, weapons are off-limits for exchange, making some battles more difficult if 
 you're playing with a less-well-equipped partner.  

           Having a partner around to watch your back is great in case you get grabbed by an enemy. 

  Resident Evil 5 isn't a survival horror game, but that doesn't mean it hasn't learned a great deal 
 from the genre. Tension is the central element of survival horror games, and in the past it has 
 been conveyed by the gloomy settings, the sense of isolation, and the frustratingly clunky camera 
 angles and controls -- all RE5 does differently is convey this feeling through other outlets. Having 
 a partner introduces new types of tension, because you're forced to rely on each other's support, 
 find ways to manage both of your inventories during battles, and cover larger areas since enemies 
 can appear from almost anywhere. Waves of enemies wax and wane with just the right frequency, and 
 while the brightly lit environments make them less scary, they can be tough to deal with because 
 they attack in large numbers and are smarter, faster, and stronger than their counterparts in previous 
 games. Major encounters and boss fights are doled out with excellent pacing, and since you're never 
 sure what to expect around the corner, you have to remain vigilant. The active inventory management 
 system helps keep that anxiety up as well.  

  RE5 is easily one of the most visually stunning games available, and its huge variety of environments 
 are meticulously detailed in every way. There are lots of large, open areas, and youll constantly 
 be on the move through them since there are usually so many enemies. In-game cutscenes are top-notch 
 (though sometimes a bit over the top) , and Chris and Sheva are incredibly well animated, especially 
 their faces. Though the dialogue is often full of the series' trademark goofiness, the voice acting 
 is competent, and when paired with the excellent facial expressions, it breathes a great deal of 
 realism into the characters. Likewise, the fantastic orchestral soundtrack heightens the gameplay 
 with everything from the low-key, ambient tracks that play during downtimes, to the frantic, upbeat 
 songs that accompany the massive boss battles.  

  On the first play-through, Resident Evil 5 lasts about 12 hours, which is considerably shorter 
 than its predecessor. Once you're finished, though, there's still plenty to see and do. There are 
 hidden B. S. A. A. badges scattered throughout most levels to find; you can strive to get better scores 
 or times in each chapter to show off on the online leaderboards; and there are three initial difficulties 
 available with a fourth unlockable. In-game points can be spent on collectible trophies of various 
 characters and enemies, on additional costumes and graphics filters, and on special infinite-ammo 
 versions of guns that you've fully upgraded. Finally, the Mercenaries minigame returns in a format 
 very similar to its last incarnation in Resident Evil 4 but with support for co-op.  

           Sometimes, you need a bit of teamwork to jump a gap or otherwise push on.      

  Resident 
 Evil 5 successfully builds on the foundation of its predecessor while taking it in a drastically 
 different direction. Having a partner introduces new degrees of gameplay depth and dramatic tension 
 that make the game that much more exciting to play. Though the slow, deliberate movement and shooting 
 may not appeal to everyone, this new sequels frequent large-scale battles and co-op play still 
 offer a fun and exciting adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (293 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  Survival Horror has always been synonymous with one series: Capcom's Resident Evil. It both invented 
 and perfected the genre, and the only other game that's managed to come close is EA's Dead Space.
 
  
  The problem with being so legendary is that the next game in the series always has some over-sized 
 shoes to fill, and that is especially true for Resident Evil 5. It's predecessor, Resident Evil 
 4, took the series in a new direction and completely redefined the genre as we knew it, so Capcom 
 was going to have to come up with something amazing if they were going to trump their previous 
 success. And how well they accomplished this task is going to completely depend on your point of 
 view.
  
  Diehard fans of the series will probably be extremely disappointed, because a lot of what made 
 the series so unique is now gone, starting with the inventory system that no longer varies the 
 amount of space certain items take up. No matter how large or tiny an item is, every item takes 
 one inventory slot, and you only get nine slots. So whether you're carrying nine eggs or nine rocket 
 launchers, you will use exactly the same amount of space in each case. What's even more ridiculous 
 is the fact your body armor takes up an inventory slot, which means that the Chris Redfield (the 
 game's protagonist) must get protection from a bullet proof vest by sticking it in his pocket. 
 If you're thinking this all makes no freaking sense whatsoever, you're absolutely right. 
  
  You'll also find that the game is all thriller and no chiller. While there's a certain level 
 of excitement created by tribal zombies who want to bury their large spiked clubs into your skull, 
 you'll find nothing frightening about it in the slightest. Barney episodes are far more disturbing 
 and frightening than this game could ever hope to be, thanks to the fact that all of the struggle 
 is gone. Not even conservation figures into the equation. Zombies constantly drop ammunition when 
 you take them out, so you'll rarely find yourself in a spot where you're surrounded by them with 
 only two bullets left in your pistol.
  
  You're also going to have a constant companion, Sheva, throughout the entire game. This not only 
 removes any semblance of fear (because you constantly have a partner with you) but can also add 
 an extra layer of frustration at times. The problem is that her A. I. was obviously programmed by 
 schizophrenics, because she's either so helpful that you'll be beside yourself with joy or so freaking 
 stupid that you'll want to shoot her yourself. There really is no in-between with her, and it gets 
 particularly bad during boss battles when you're forced to direct her everywhere. She's not even 
 smart enough to grab a gun and start shooting or run away from a guy with a chainsaw without your 
 say so.
  
  So by the time you take away the fear and desperation, the ammunition conservation, the unique 
 inventory system, and add in some jackass A. I., you end up with a game that feels nothing like 
 its acclaimed predecessor and for all points of purposes is a flying piece of crap. Right?
  
  Wrong. Because this game was intended to be another reinvention of the Resident Evil formula. 
 The only similarities, when it really comes down to it, is the over-the-shoulder camera angle and 
 the control mechanics. Everything else was intentionally changed to bring the game's pace up another 
 notch but still prevent it from being a true run-and-gun experience. And it not only succeeds in 
 doing this, it excels at it.
  
  What Capcom went for here was a fun and exciting Co-Op game, and that's exactly what you get. So 
 even though the A. I. will drive you right out of your mind, it becomes a much different game when 
 playing playing with another opponent on line. Strategy takes a front seat, and you'd be amazed 
 what a riot it is to clear out a room full of Zombies when you have a good partner... and how much 
 loot you pick up along the way. This isn't even taking into account how technically flawless the 
 online cooperative play is; it's literally seamless.
  
  And once you actually play the game, it's fairly easy to see all of the time and attention that 
 went into the title. It features spectacular sound and voice acting, an effective menu and upgrade 
 system, a brilliant map, weapons that feel just right, a well-written storyline, and some absolutely 
 breathtaking visuals. It all adds up to a very immersive experience that just about any gamer can, 
 and should, enjoy to the fullest.
  
  Recommendations for this game are fairly easy to make: If you're the type of gamer that will find 
 yourself pining for another Resident Evil 4 and simply nit-picking this game to pieces, don't bother 
 with this one. You'll be disappointed. But if you'll be able to see past this issue, or if you're 
 new to the Resident Evil series, there is a lot of fun and replay value to be had here. Don't miss 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lessthankris
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  
  The story which I don't care too much for is at least entertaining and keeps you at least somewhat 
 interested. Reading through the random documents throughout the game is fairly interesting, particularly 
 the relationship between umbrella and tricell, adding a bit to the story. There are a numerous 
 points in the story where something miraculously will happen to your advantage and give you the 
 exact uperhand you need to defeat the current enemy and may make you think "that's stupid that 
 would never happen" but then you remember the main plot is about zombies and forget about it.
 
  
  The animations and movement of the zombies are the same as 4 and if you played 4 you will notice 
 right away. Luckily the game is too damn pretty and you stop caring instantly. The levels individually 
 are pretty diverse and there are a few points that let you choose which section you will complete 
 first. The puzzles pretty far and in between. What puzzles you do find are far too easy. An example 
 of a really good level is the cave area where your gps goes out and one person has to hold the 
 flash light while the other shoots the zombies. I wish there was at least 1 level though where 
 it was only the original dumb zombies. I miss those guys.
  
  The whole stopping to shoot debate doesn't really bother me to much but I do have to say stopping 
 to use your knife and waiting for the zombie to be in your slashing radius is lame. Upgrading weapons 
 is awesome as always and adds a really fun factor to the game. The co-op couldn't be more perfect. 
 Even the acheivments add alot olot of replay value in the game and are actually fun to try to get.
 
  
  The music is amazing during boss battles and largly intenseifys the tense battles.
  
  I would highly recommend snatching the game up, although with the huge difference between co-op 
 and single player, I would wait untill you have someone to play with before you get it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thrashmaster
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't much of a resident evil fan before but after this game I am taking a look back at some 
 of the older games. This one I know is different though, as it plays similar to a shooter rather 
 than a survivor horror. I played this with a friend and in my opinion that is the best way to play, 
 I hate playing games where you have to watch out for a stupid computer but instead trust in your 
 friend.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8.5
  Good details in the game and a nice looking environment but nothing really stood out or looked 
 really amazing.
  
  CONTROLS: 9
  Smooth for the most part and easy to get the hang of, but it can be annoying trying to quickly 
 do something in your inventory and quickly get out.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10
  Smooth and straightforward about the whole way through. Non of the guns were really overpowered 
 and they all seemed to come in handy at different times. The fact that you can upgrade your favorite 
 guns for a price also helps to add another level of gameplay. And other it was a linear game the 
 open areas and plenty of running room helped to make you forget about it.
  
  SOUND: 8.2
  Much like the graphics the sounds were nice but never really stood out and commanded your attention.
 
  
  STORY:7.8
  Not to impressive, and although I didn't play the previous ones I didn't like that these "zombies" 
 were toting guns and shooting at me. I don't know if they did in any of the older ones but I didn't 
 like it. Also the big plot twist toward the end you can see coming from a mile away, but I won't 
 spoil it for anyone.
  
  MULTIPLAYER: 10
  Best part of the game, I never went online but playing split screen with a friend makes this game 
 very enjoyable. All the way through the story and again in the bonus mercenary mode that you can 
 play it.
  
  FINAL: 8.9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttowen
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:19 pm PT
Review:  It is a fun action game, but dissapointingly little Resident Evil feel. I loved being able to replay 
 levels and not have it negetivly affect my current game status. I loved unlimited ammo and unlimited 
 jewels and cash. Great job bringing back Chris Redfield. But dissapointingly no scary parts and 
 no (PROMISSED) action controls. What happened to strafe while we shoot like they said we could. 
 I also liked the Resident Evil 4 feel, but am currently dissapointed that they didn't change the 
 feel of the game. I mean games have evolved from standing while we shoot. Although this game did 
 have some defaults, I still loved it. So I'd give it a 4 out of 5. Resident evil 4-ever rrrrrrrrr 
 eeeeeeeeeee sssss iiiiiiiiiiiiiii ddddd eeeeeeeee nnnnnnnnnnn ttttttttttttt eeeeeeeeee vvvvvvvvv 
 iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii lllllllllll 44444 eeeeee vvvvvvvv eeeeeee rrrrrrrrrr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteChief-117
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is very good, but not as good as it was supposed to be. The story is very good. The 
 weapons are new and can be pretty usefull. Unfortunately, your partner wastes ammo and herbs. Ammo 
 is found more often, making the game easy, too easy. The game is very fun, but gets a little boring 
 after beating it. Getting infinite ammo just makes the game even easier. The game has good graphics 
 and extras. The unlockables are pretty good and so is The Mercenaries. The game also isn't scary, and 
 what kind of Resident Evil game has no fear in it. Resident Evil without the element of fear is 
 like playing F. E. A. R. without the horror. Getting an S in a level of Resident Evil 5 is fairly easy. Sometimes 
 this is a good thing, but sometimes is not. I don't want to make this game sound bad, because it's 
 not. The game has many good things, like the co-op and the new weapons. The game is more like an action 
 game, not a survival-horror, which is exactly what Resident Evil is supposed to be like. And this 
 game is NOT racist. If you have noticed, Sheva is African too, and she kill the Majinji too. The costumes 
 are very good and the filter is also very interesting. The collector's edition costs to much money 
 for a figure the size of your finger, a necklace, and a bag. Resident Evil 5 has it's ups and downs, but 
 it's still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waterbearer26
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  
  
  Resident Evil: 5
  
  
  This game looks so good on so many levels, the detail is superb, the storyline is more in depth 
 and explained throughout the game play and pretty much self-explantory. I feel that this game will 
 help introduce future titles of the resident evil series and from what i have heard online and 
 in magazines it looks like there might be a future Resident Evil in the works. I mean in order 
 to have a sequel to any game whether its PC, console.. you have to make sure the first game sells 
 off the selves at any game store, if the first game flops then u don't have a sequel at all and 
 the company has to wait to be bought out by some well named graphics company to take over and show 
 how video games are made. 
  
  
  The Game Play: the game play in this game is outstanding, and the characters are more serious to 
 putting this T-Virus to an end and stop letting this well known science company from spreading 
 the virus to other surrounding areas. The controls are more harder to control and when you load 
 you can't find anywhere to hide from a monsterous zombie coming to eat u in half. 
  
  The Storyline: A better story and a better plot to what is really going down between the BSAA and 
 this hidden scientific organization, it makes the goose bumps and hairs on my arms stand at attention, 
 it makes you sit on the edge of your seat the whole time your playing. 
  
  
  The Weaponry/ Upgrades: Far better guns, more ammo to collect as u progress through the game, better 
 guns to unlock and keep in your inventory for future use. As your character progresses through the 
 game up collect gold coins to help pay for upgrades, guns, grenades, health and so on. The weaponry 
 is definitely vast and spread out through the game itself, in various levels you might be walking 
 surveying the area and u come across a flashing silver crate holding that precious shotgun that 
 you want so badly to test out on a zombie's head or some contain ammo, health. 
  
  
  So, all in all don't waste your hard earned money on a game with no substance, no depth, hardly 
 any graphical detail. Just save your money and go out and get Resident Evil 5 and pop some popcorn 
 and make it a date night. Only thing is just make sure you went to the bathroom b4 u get all comfy 
 in your gamer chair, just a small piece of advice. So enjoy playing and remember never play this 
 game alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwoslyng
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:03 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of all the main stream Resident Evil games. This has to be a favorite. Resident 
 Evil 5 controls great, plays great, and tons of unlockables.
  
  I found this game amazing. I have been waiting for it since it was announced. I can say that I 
 was not disappointed. The story is incredible, it links all the lore together some things like 
 the T-virus you may have to dig deeper and read the documents to learn how they are connected. 
 Everything about this game was superb. I've always thought through the Resident Evil series is 
 wouldn't it be awesome if we could play co-op on this? and RE5 delivers spectacularly. There are 
 also caps like on the E4 and secret weapons. 
  
  Mercenaries mode was a blast, with 10 unlockable characters each with there own special weapons. 
 10 different levels with different sets of enemies. You can unlock either on co-op or by yourself 
 without a bot counterpart. The requirements just change.
  
  My only problems with this game is that after you beat it you can start on any other difficulty 
 with anything you unlock including infinite ammo weapons, you can turn it on or off but regardless 
 it took some of the fun out of the game for me. The other thing is that if your playing co-op and 
 your using infinite ammo with certain weapons you can finish the game in 1.5 hours. that also took 
 it down another notch. 
  
  I regardless had a ridiculous amount of fun with this game. It brought me hours of enjoyment with 
 only 1 unlockable left to go.
  
  I loved everything about this game except that it is too short. Like mgs4 amazing cinematics but 
 not enough play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nba1day722
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Masterpiece! is the best way I can decribe this game. Resident Evil is a great game with a great 
 storyline that keeps you engaged. Period! Coop play or single player i reccomend this game to anyone 
 who likes to shoot em up. Honestly I would give this game a 9.8 due to the fact that you cannot 
 move and shoot. This is the only issue in the game. You do get used to it after the first or second 
 board but it sometimes gets to you when you are shoooting everybody then you get Clobbered by a 
 Hammer Zombie or a Regular Zombie. Sometimes you will have to run to a whole nother spot or put 
 your back against the wall (which i wouldnt reccomend unless your playing coop) so you can assure 
 nobody will grapple you from behind. However negative is completely over shadowed by many many 
 positives. Great Storyline (check) Great Gun arsenal (check) Coop (check) Great hand to hand combat 
 moves (check) Another Gameplay mode After completion of game (check) The game is amazing. And dont 
 worry if you never beat a Resident Evil Game in your life The storyline completely starts anew 
 however there is a continuation with pass characters which you get bios on in the game. Its like 
 reliving all of the Resident Evils in 1 game. Single player is OK to me the only problems with 
 Sheva ( Ally AI) is that sometimes she will give you things that you do not need. For example in 
 the game there are green herbs which replenish you health meter and there are green herbs which 
 can be combined with the green herds to give you more health when used, She may give you a red 
 herb and it may take up the last spot in your 9 slot inventory then when you need to pick up ammo 
 you have no more space. Its takes about 3 seconds to discard something from your inventory and 
 in the heat of a battle (on Hard mode) this may cost you your life. However dont let that leave 
 you pessimistic about this game because first of all if you play coop you dont have to worry about 
 that and because most of the time when you are in dire need of an item Sheva is there to supply 
 for you. Masterpiece! If you are a gamer you need this game like you need oxygen... lol....... NO 
 SERIOUSLEY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_webster_87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a casual Resident Evil fan playing some but not all of the games in the franchise 
 but after playing Resident Evil 4 on the Wii, I was left eager to play the newest title to hit 
 the series and the wait was pretty much worth it...
  
  Graphically the game is easily one of the best looking games to date on any console and even more 
 so in HD. Characters look fantastic and in the cut-scenes you will be forgiven if you forget these 
 are not real people. Africa looks very real too and the entire game offers jaw dropping visuals 
 no matter what part of the story you are in. My only gripes are that Africa looks so beautiful 
 but Resident Evil works best when you have dark, decaying old places in the game and too many bosses 
 look the same by being just giant spider type creatures or black oily monsters, which lacks variety 
 and fails to take advantage of the powerful engine.
  
  Resident Evil offers a decent enough soundtrack which can add to certain elements in the game and 
 the rest of the sounds from the African infected to any gun/explosion noises are done to a very 
 high standard. However the game lacks the ability to create a tense atmosphere due to the more 
 action orientated path that the game follows, which is something that helped make previous installments 
 the kings of the horror genre. Voice acting is done much better than in any of the previous games 
 but its more the writing rather than the delivery, which will make some lines feel cheesy and cringe-worthy.
 
  
  Gameplay is solid by adding some new elements to the franchise and getting rid of some older ones 
 that aren't needed anymore but its not all perfect as some of the old annoyances from the franchise's 
 past are still around to haunt you. Shooting is improved with the addition of lasers on most guns 
 and the new 3rd person camera helps greatly but there is still tweaking to be done in both areas. 
 The cover system does help with the games more action approach and the action moves are the funniest 
 to use, plus they have been expanded from Resident Evil 4 with new moves added. The co-op moves 
 in the game have been implemented in well like the ability to help your partner but a few like 
 chucking each other up ot high places just to separate you for like 30 seconds feel tacked on as 
 you are never really alone, which is what made Resident Evil so hard and scary.
  
  Resident Evil offers a decent AI system for the most part and the enemies act very similar to its 
 counterparts of Resident Evil 4 but for some tweaks. However the AI has the habit of sometimes 
 not responding to you sniping a fellow AI friend next to it and sometimes they can be a little 
 predictable to the point of becoming tedious, which is a problem mainly found in boss fights. Your 
 AI partner can hold there own but can be a little annoying at times, mainly with picking up anything 
 they see on ground even if its pointless to take and the game is just generally more fun when you 
 play with a human partner to avoid such things.
  
  The game offers a solid length campaign though its much shorter than previous Resident Evil games, 
 especially Resident Evil 4 which was closer to 18-20 hours minimum. The game does offer some replay 
 value due to the 4 different difficulty modes, Mercenaries mode and the achievements are fun to 
 go for but the non linear nature and shortness of the game does hamper any replay value. CO-OP 
 is a fresh take on the franchise and works really well though I do suspect that is the main culprit 
 for why the game is shorter and maybe they should work on a non CO-OP story next time with the 
 option to play the mode if you want by a drop in system used quite successfully in the past by 
 the likes of Perfect Dark & Rainbow Six Vegas 2. Overall Resident Evil 5 is a success and while 
 some die-hard fans will not like the new direction of the franchise, it will please most and bring 
 in new fans to keep the demand for future Resident Evil games though hopefully with slightly better 
 scripts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet407
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is an extremely good game. However, it fails to attain the perfect mix of survival, 
 horror and action achieved in Resident Evil 4. I haven't played the Resident Evil games before 
 RE4, so I'm not the most qualified to talk about survival horror, but I do know that RE4s mix of 
 ammo hoarding, supply gathering and desperate attempts to hold off your chainsaw wielding doom 
 mixed with truly scary environments and enemies and a dash of action game combined to make it one 
 of my favorite games. RE5 on the other hand ditched the fear and hoarding to focus on the action 
 aspect of the game. This is not necessarily a bad thing, but it isn't a good thing either; they 
 simply appeal to different audiences. As a game, it is amazing: if it were released as an original 
 IP it would be fantastic, but it seems diluted in comparison 
  to RE4.
  
  The difficulty level is a something of a problem, on normal it's quite easy, but with spots hard 
 enough to scare me away from veteran mode, an easy game is fine but if it lacks the consistency 
 to be beatable by non-super hardcore players on harder modes, it just doesn't work. The hard spots, 
 however, are just about the only things that scare me about the game as you never really get the 
 feeling that you want to play the game, but it's just too terrifying. The mini-bosses can be scary, 
 but like almost everything in the game, you can look at it and say "In RE4 stuff like this was 
 harder/scarier/better" for example: in RE4 the chainsaw freak had an instant kill. While this attack 
 is retained by his chainsaw successor, it has a wind-up I don't recall from RE4, and overall it 
 is just more dodge-able and less punishing than before. Again, this isn't a bad thing, it's just 
 different, while RE4 was brutally hard most of the time, like being beaten with a potato sack full 
 of pure joy, RE5 is more like eating potatoes of moderate happiness out of the same potato sack; 
 not as painful, but not as fun either.
  
  As detailed above, RE4 is a better game in most ways, but it's sequel has some significant improvements 
 such as some of the best co-op this side of gears of war 1 and some truly incredible graphics. 
 The mercenaries mode is vastly improved, doubling the amount of levels and characters, and the 
 entire game boasts some of the best unlockables since the PS2 ratchet and clank games. Also, the 
 chapter select is an extremely welcome addition.
  The boss battles also seem somewhat lamer, however, relying more on QTEs and gun turrets, directly 
 opposed to the RE4 tradition of taking a pistol to a giant monster fight. The game is shorter, but 
 as mentioned you can hop into the game at any completed chapter. The inventory system is drastically 
 different, forfeiting the enjoyable struggle of fitting herbs and ammo (found much more frequently 
 in RE5 then in RE4) into a pause-menu briefcase for the tense mid-combat item swapping real time 
 inventory. this works well, but it would work so much better if you didn't exit the inventory screen 
 when damaged.
  
  In closing, if you want an amazing survival-horror game with a dash of action, play Dead Space. 
 If you want an amazing game that mixes equal parts survival-horror and action, play Resident Evil 
 4.
  But if you want an action game that can give you the Occasional scare, look no further than this 
 solid followup to an incredible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPOYoung
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Well, we thrust ourselves back into the crazy world of zombies, and crazy viruses. resident Evil 
 5 is a great game, but it also makes you think, what the hell? Lets start with Sheva, your partner. 
 I love Sheva to death, but at the same time, what the hell? You give her an ak47 and she will still 
 use her pistol. And she uses health spray quite alot, not enough to piss you off but enough to 
 make you go, wait for it... What the hell? The game istelf is really short, i beat it 100% in just 
 under 3 hours. It does alot to explain everything though. I think its worth it just to find out 
 the answers to all the questions Resident Evil players have been asking over the years. Like why 
 are they not zombies anymore, where did chris go, is jill dead? Stuff like that. Ilike the addition 
 of actual guns in the game, not made up stuff. Like an mp5 an ak47. The quick select buttons make 
 it a snap to go from guns to herbs. And having sheva with extra space is good to. And its nice 
 to have someone to talk to, well sorta lol. But the boss battles are pretty good, and if you are 
 a complete idiot sheva is there to tell you how to beat them. And they do a pretty good job of 
 keeping her out of the way, i actually found her helpful in several situations. Over all RE5 is 
 a good game, butnot the greatest game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I would never have believed that RE5 would be as polarizing as it has become. Complaints because 
 it is not enough like the the old installments and more complaints because it has not evolved enough. 
 Complaints that it is not survival horror enough, complaints that it has too much action, complaints 
 that there is too much daylight. It seems gamers these days often find more time to complain than 
 they find time to actually PLAY THE GAMES. Nothing is ever good enough it seems.
  
  Personally, I find that Capcom found a happy medium within all of these complaints. You cannot 
 satisfy everyone, but I think they put a little something in there to balance it out FOR everyone. 
 Storywise, they tied up loose ends from earlier installments, they added a bit more action for 
 those who wanted the game to feel more modern, yet they kept the basic gameplay mechanics from 
 RE4 that was so successful for them. Not being able to move while shoot is a signature for Resident 
 Evil, and only adds to the unique sort of tension that fans of series had come to love. Yet somehow 
 it is now being construed as a problem? What a finnicky and confusing bunch gamers are.
  
  Enough with addressing complaints, the game is simply Resident Evil on steroids through and through. 
 It has the gameplay of RE4, although it is much smoother, and the camera has been freed up, making 
 it play even better than it's predecessor. The added addition of co-op with Sheva is a classy touch 
 and the computer A. I. does a very good job in single player. You will be glad she is there on more 
 than a few occasions, I assure you. Of course being able to play with a friend as well is just 
 an added bonus that extends the replayability even further.
  
  Graphics wise, the visuals are superb. Everything from the lighting to the detail on the characters 
 is simply top shelf all the way. Yes, there are some flat, muddy textures in spots, but overall, 
 the game is just a thing of beauty. Such nit-pickery does not do this game justice at all.
  
  All in all, RE5 is a must play, and will no doubt be one of the best games of the year. If 
 you are concerned with finnicky, nit-pickery from impossible to please fanboys, just lay your fears 
 to rest. Play the game and see for yourself. This is a more than worthy entry into the Resident 
 Evil series, and thankfully stands out from the rest with it's own unique appeal, while still managing 
 to be Resident Evil. What, do you want the series to stay the same and have game after game of 
 roaming through dank, dark mansions and castles, shooting slumbering zombies? 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandblasted8888
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  Before I start this don't get me wrong, Resident Evil 5 is a good game, it was just very undeserving 
 of the name Resident Evil.
  
  First off, the start of the game is done wonderfully. But after the first few hours the game just 
 starts to get boring. The storyline is ridiculous and the controls feel very dated. When you're used 
 to controls like the ones in Gears of War 2 its hard to believe that the developers thought this 
 was a good idea.
  
  Now, I'm not completely bashing the game here, it was still good. I loved the setting, and mercenaries 
 mode very much. The graphics were absolutely amazing throughout the whole game. But, these things 
 aren't enough to carry the game for 9-10 hours let alone for a re-play of the game.
  
  All in all, Resident Evil 5 does some things well, but it just doesn't deliver the thrills and 
 chills that other Resident Evil games do so well. So my score for this hyped up disappointment is 
 a 6.5 out of 10. Let's just hope that the next Resident Evil game lives up to the high standards 
 set by Resident Evil 2 & 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 11:28 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Nonstop action; some of the best graphics that you'll ever see on any console; cutscenes 
 look incredible; co-op approach is welcomed and works most of the time; terrific voice acting and 
 music design; most of the things from Resident Evil 4 are here and intact. 
  
  The Bad: Occasional problems with friendly AI; some questionable dialogue; some may have a problem 
 with no movement while shooting; the scariness has been toned down; can't increase your inventory 
 size
  
  Resident Evil 4 was an amazing achievement in and of itself. It helped revive a franchise that 
 was dying a slow and painful death. After its release in 2005, fans patiently waited for a sequel 
 on the next gen. systems. When the first trailer was released, revealing Chris Redfield as the 
 protagonist, fans went absolutely crazy. Since then, trailer after trailer has released information 
 on the game's story, controls and motivation. When the demo was released exclusively for the Xbox 
 360, fans got a taste of the new adventure. Finally, one of the most anticipated games of the year 
 has arrived (on Friday the 13th no less!) . Is this another masterpiece, or a cut and past job?
 
  
  Chris Redfield, one of the series most noticeable leads, is now part of the BSAA (Bioterrorism 
 Security Assessment Alliance) . Apparently, the virus that Leon Kennedy faced in Spain, called the 
 Las Plagas, is breaking out in a village in West Africa. Chris makes his way to the infected village 
 and meets up with Sheva Alamar, another BSAA agent who is assisting him on the mission. The two 
 quickly discover that the villagers are hostile and have fallen victim to the virus. Chris and 
 Sheva are on a mission to retrieve important information pertinent to the virus and possibly a 
 cure. Chris is also on a personal mission to find a lost partner that was presumed to be dead. 
 The story focuses on the virus, Chris's personal mission and Wesker, the series main villain.
 
  
  The story is interesting, and the many characters are easy to distinguish. Some of the dialogue 
 is iffy, but otherwise, it's a top notch, action film-styled story. However, the main problem with 
 it is that the big, surprising (I use that term lightly) twist is extremely obvious. Most fans 
 have probably already figured this out through the trailers.
  
  In the first couple of Resident Evil games, it was all about collecting various objects to unlock 
 doors to different areas. This design led to a good amount of backtracking through some areas. 
 Resident Evil 4, however, always kept you moving forward. It rarely returned you to previous areas, 
 and when it did, something entirely different opened up, so you weren't in those areas for long. 
 A similar design carries over to Resident Evil 5. You'll always be moving forward with little to 
 no backtracking. Interestingly enough, there are some levels which allow you to complete a set 
 number of goals in any order that you wish. Some of the on-foot action is broken up with driving 
 and machine gun operating segments, but there's really not much else to say here; the design still 
 works and it works well.
  
  One thing that's noticeable where the gameplay is concerned in Resident Evil 5 is Chris and Sheva's 
 lack of movement when aiming their guns. Games like Gears of War allowed free movement while aiming, 
 but Resident Evil 5 sticks to the basics laid down by its predecessor. Because of this, enemies 
 will run toward you, weapon in hand, and then begin walking as soon as they get within a couple 
 of feet of you. It feels a bit strange, but the game would be impossible otherwise. Also, melee 
 attacks are used a bit more often this time around. When an enemy is down, a stomp or a sharp knife 
 to the neck can usually put them down for good. Chris and Sheva also come equipped with uppercuts, 
 straight punches and stylish kicks that do major damage to enemies. If used consecutively, while 
 taking turns, devastating melee combos can silence enemies in a heartbeat. This gameplay design 
 results in a lot of moments where you take aim, shoot, maybe get in a melee attack or two, run 
 away to get some distance, turn around and then repeat. This isn't really a bad thing, though. 
 This tactic actually heightens the tension, which is a good thing considering that the scare factor 
 is nothing compared to previous entries.
  
  The scares in the original Resident Evil are legendary. Zombie dogs smashing through windows, creepy 
 environments and enemies that are just as fast as you are made up the numerous scares found in 
 the first Resident Evil and its remake. In Resident Evil 5, there are virtually no scares whatsoever. 
 Most of your enemy encounters occur outside, in broad daylight, and the fact that you have a partner 
 watching your back most of the time makes things a bit less worrisome. Though the scares have been 
 toned down, action has been made, what seems like, the main focus of the game.
  
  Quick time events also return, prompting you to quickly hit a button or repeatedly tap a button 
 to further the cutscene. However, these events are kind of unpredictable, considering the fact 
 that they're underused and occur randomly in and out of cutscenes. 
  
  Your items and guns are managed through an inventory screen that can be brought up by using the 
 "Y" button. This menu must be navigated in real time, unlike the last game where everything froze 
 as you desperately searched for the right gun. The menu only has nine slots for weapons, ammo and 
 herbs that help restore you health. The items placed on the top, left, right and bottom slots on 
 your menu can be instantly taken out by using the directional pad, forcing you to arrange your 
 slots accordingly. Like in the last game, some items can be combined to open some spaces for new 
 items, but the fact that one cannot upgrade the capacity of this menu is a bit bothersome. You'll 
 have nine slots from beginning to end.
  
  In between chapters (or after you or your partner die) , you are sent to a menu screen. This screen 
 shows all of the weapons that you have in your inventory, and weapons that you're not carrying. 
 Items can also be sold, bought and upgraded on this screen. No longer do you have to seek out a 
 merchant to upgrade your equipment. In order to buy upgrades, items and the like, you'll need money. 
 Various caches of gold are scattered throughout each level in barrels and chests, but there are 
 also precious stones and artifacts that can be sold for extremely high prices. Once a gun is upgraded 
 all of the way, you'll be able to buy infinite ammo for that gun on a separate screen. This system 
 still works, but the upgrades are, at times, a bit too small. In Resident Evil 4, when you upgraded 
 a gun, you felt or saw it. In this game, it's a bit harder to notice since the upgrades only upgrade 
 your weapons in a very small way. 
  
  One thing that's a bit new to the series is a heavy emphasis on two player co-op. Players will 
 learn to work together with their partners in order to cross large gaps and cover each other's 
 backs. There are some levels that require virtually no teamwork whatsoever, but having a partner 
 by your side is certainly comforting. 
  
  There are two ways to play Resident Evil 5: online and off. Off-line, things work as you'd expect. 
 Sheva can be controlled by the computer or through a buddy via split screen. Split screen is a 
 bit cumbersome considering your view is severely limited, yet it's there for those who want it. 
 Playing with the computer has its ups and downs... but mainly ups. Sheva is a capable partner most 
 of the time. When you're firing in her direction, she gets out of the way. She'll smash up some 
 barrels and may even combine some herbs for extra room in her inventory. In the later levels, she 
 might be a bit prone to run into enemy fire, and if you get so much as a scratch on your leg she'll 
 waste a first aid kit, but other than that, the computer does a great job of controlling her. 
 
  
  Playing online is a bit more solid experience. Having a real person as your ally is always welcoming. 
 Though you can't share weapons with your online companion, ammo and other items can be traded on 
 the fly. If either player's connection is low, lag comes in the form of delayed bullets, melee 
 attacks and enemy reactions. That said, online is pretty solid, and Mercenaries Mode, a mode which 
 is unlocked after beating the game, is surprisingly fun online. There's also a downloadable multiplayer 
 mode, but the fact that you have to stop and shoot usually ruins the experience, and it's only 
 four players. Resident Evil needs to do a lot more work before stepping into the fabulous world 
 of competitive multiplayer... Let's just leave it at that.
  
  Resident Evil 4 set a new standard with its over the top visuals and amazing animation. Resident 
 Evil 5 continues the series graphical victory march, delivering one of the best looking games of 
 all time. The lighting is perfect, character animation is fluid and realistic, and... well, everything 
 in this game just looks fantastic. You'll be hard pressed to find a game that can match the extravagance 
 of Resident Evil 5.
  
  Where music is concerned, you can expect upbeat, action-y tunes that will keep you engaged throughout 
 your trip to Africa. There's also some generally creepy tunes when in dark laboratories or abandoned 
 shacks. The music fits in nicely to the game's atmosphere, and really heightens the tension. Sound 
 effects are also great. Some guns sound pretty powerful, and the grunts and growls from some of 
 the creatures will make you feel like they're the real deal. 
  
  Voice acting is top notch, and thanks to the motion capture done by some of the game's developers, 
 the words actually match the mouth's movements. Though the voice acting sounds incredible, the 
 writing is a bit iffy. Some lines are delivered a bit out of place, while other hit the perfect 
 note. 
  
  The story mode will take you around twelve hours to complete on your first playthrough, there are 
 three difficulties and an unlockable one, online co-op, and a downloadable competitive, multiplayer 
 component (which I really don't recommend) . All in all, this game is a toss up. It's an almost 
 perfect rental, yet some are so devoted to the series that it's an automatic buy. There are a couple 
 of cool things to do after the game is done, but, personally, I recommend a rent. 
  
  Some may look at this game and think that it's stuck in the past, and that would be partly true. 
 It borrows almost everything from Resident Evil 4, taking its biggest chance on co-op. However, 
 when looking at this game, one has to realize that Resident Evil 5 sticks to what it knows best 
 from Resident Evil 4. The co-op situations, the intense shooting and great production values show 
 that Resident Evil 5 is a game that is well worth anyone's time to pick up and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggon_rohit
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 introduced action oriented gameplay to the Resident Evil series and became one 
 of the most sought after games that everyone should play, whether a fan of the series or not. Then 
 comes along Resident Evil 5, this time its another character from previous part, Chris Redfield 
 and he gets to bring a partner, Sheva Alomar, a new character to the series. The game takes place 
 in Africa this time around, Chris and Sheva are out looking for the people responsible for the 
 deaths of a lot of people and stop another supposed plot of global zombification. It isnt the brightest 
 plot, but it does its job of letting you know what you have to do, and a couple of surprises are 
 there, well... not really surprises but it works .
  
  The gameplay, RE5 is a game basically built for co-op, and if you can get someone to partner with 
 you, this is one of the most addictive games out there. In case of single player campaign, you 
 start out with controlling Chris and Sheva is AI controlled, in which case Sheva's AI isnt that 
 great.
  One development in having a partner is that it makes it very difficult for the players to die, 
 but that doesnt mean you're not going to die. This task of healing Sheva does very well, and she 
 can help the main character when he gets grabbed by an enemy. But thats about all that AI Sheva 
 is good for. You can give her 2 commands, ATTACK and COVER, which basically translates into Sheva 
 in full Rambo mode or hiding behind the main character. But in either case AI Sheva is an ammo 
 guzzler, and the kick is you have to take care of her inventory incase of single player mode. There 
 are sequences when the 2 characters are separated, where one is out doing a task, and the other 
 provides cover to the character, which is pretty neat. There are quicktime events in the game, 
 and certain melee moves that the characters can perform after stunning an enemy, but overall, its 
 all about shooting zombies, when they close in, running away to get some distance and then shoot 
 again.
  
  The arsenal, since this is an action game you have everything from pistols , to machine guns, sniper 
 rifles, grenade launchers, RPGs, the whole lot. And ammo drops are plenty, so you wont end up running 
 out of ammo, in which case the game is a little forgiving if you want to waste ammo. But those 
 who like making every bullet count will definitely have advantages of having a steady supply of 
 ammo to spare for AI Sheva incase of single player mode. The inventory is similar to earlier games 
 but since this time there is a partner, that just means that you have double the slots to begin 
 with. Another thing that Capcom forgives this time around is buying equipment. In RE4 it was another 
 adventure to go out looking for the weapons merchant, which added a little character to the game, 
 but this time around you can buy equipment or organize your inventory everytime you are able to 
 save the game, everytime you die and restart from a checkpoint you can organize your inventory 
 to better plan out how to move ahead. This again though is very helpful, but for some reason having 
 a weapons merchant to locate and buying equipment had a certain feel of its own.
  
  The environments, RE5 has certainly expanded on these, everything from African towns, to factories, 
 to tribal villages, Ancient Remains, Labaratories etc. All the environments are beautiful and big. 
 Infact you are in big open spaces in a large part of the game, but that just means there are more 
 zombies to be killed. There are claustrophobic corridors to be encountered but there arent too 
 many, and the cheap thrill of having a zombies popping out in a place most expected is really not 
 there. It isnt exactly a creepy game anymore since most of the action takes place in broad daylight. 
 But the visuals are gorgeous, the sunlight, the shadows everything is top notch. Character animations, 
 expressions are all perfect but here again the cutscenes are prerendered i. e. even if you are holding 
 a rifle in your hand in game, but the cutscene is going to show Chris holding a pistol, its nothing 
 big to crib about but it looks silly. The sounds, the noises the zombies make, or the sound of 
 stomping on a fallen enemy is satisfying, which just shows Capcom's effort in making a beautiful 
 looking and sounding game.
  
  The enemies, most of them are zombies that you're going to face, but there are quite a few variations 
 in their models as well, the tribal models are especially good looking and a greater challenge 
 than the normal zombies. Then there are the zombies that spawn into other horrific abominations 
 once they have been killed. There are some really good mini-boss battles which are especially challenging, 
 like the wannabe leatherface zombie, with a rug covered face and a chainsaw. And since this is 
 an action game you just gotta have biker zombies, and driving around in a boat or sitting in the 
 back of Humvee with a gun with unlimited ammo. But the big boss battles are kind of disappointing, 
 it usually requires a certain steps to be repeated over and over again and over again so that the 
 boss finally dies, it is only a matter of who can outlast the other. And some bosses are totally 
 random (Japanese gamemakers have something for giant insects) .
  
  So all in all, RE5 isnt a bad game at all. It is still is fun to standstill in one place when you 
 pull out a gun to shoot at zombies coming towards you. It is a beautiful game, that really shines 
 in co-op, so if you can get someone to partner with you, you wouldnt want to put the controller 
 down.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killswitch8
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this is game strictly made for entertainment and not exquisite detail. For one 
 thing, thing isn't like the adrenaline pumping predecessors. You might look at this a good thing 
 if youre new to the survival horror genre, or you might be a disappointed adrenaline-junkie. 
 Overall this isn't a bad game, but it has its problems.
  
  The gameplay I must say evolves heavily through the story. The beginning chapters are very ecstatic 
 and heart pounding! There is not as much ammo as there are "zombies" and you have the standard 
 9mm berretta. This makes for the authentic survival horror theme as you might say. Then there comes 
 the 3rd chapter and all of that is thrown out the window. You can replay the chapters for easy 
 easy ammo and earn quick cash. You soon become hoarded with handgun ammo and seemingly blast away! 
 What was once a typical "zombie" brawl becomes a shooting range for god's sake! This defeats the 
 purpose of having the player conserve ammo, use a crowbar or something, using a barricade, or avoiding 
 the party. Not what many veterans feel good about, but for the casual gamer it's just good old 
 fun. Although then there comes veteran and professional/pee your pants scary hard difficulties. 
 So you could ramp it up a bit.
  
  The story; however, is a totally different animal. For one thing, it is rock solid in development. 
 Not too slow, not too fast just the right speed. The drama and the classic whoa moments are all 
 packed in neatly. Overall the story is what will make you hooked on this game.
  
  Now I'm going to talk specifically for the survival horror and resident evil fans. Resident evil 
 5 is not innovating in any way of huge improvement of the 4th. There are still the las plagas parasite 
 creepy crawlies, so no classic mindless flesh eating zombies. I know that Capcom was probably thinking 
 "let shake things up by changing from viruses to parasitic pests that show more 'intelligence.'" 
 However, I would have to say that it still doesn't pack the same gruesome and scary feel. Now then 
 there also come with the whole upgrades for your weapons; I think it is a little over the top. 
 = ( Why? A pistol with a freaking 100 round clip isn't what I call traditional survival horror! 
 The 500 magnum which I was craving to get my hands on, it turns out to really look really weird 
 and lack the amazing 50. Caliber round sounds and effects! =' ( Now with the view of the veterans 
 out there that I share some thoughts with; I can say that nitpicky gamers might tear their hair 
 out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubeCAT13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is an all around amazing game and will knock the socks off of any gamer looking 
 for fun. It can easily supply over 50 hours of entertainment because of all of the unlockables 
 and because of the fun gameplay. The career itself could be a lot longer, taking only 6 hours on 
 my first play through, but the levels are very fun and have a lot of replay value. Whether you 
 are looking for emblems, earning some extra cash, or just having a good time, you will find yourself 
 playing all the levels over and over again. Difficulty is not an issue due to the multiple difficulty 
 levels ranging from Chris being killed in one hit or having almost godly health. The single player 
 game is great, but nothing compares to the co-op play. Next time you find yourself near a game 
 store, waltz on in and grab yourself a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nemiisis
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:46 pm PT
Review:  there comes a time in every gaming series where change is necessary in order to survive and nobody 
 knows that better than capcom as proven by completely changing the resident evil series with Resident 
 evil 4 which can arguable hold its place at the very top of the gaming ladder. There was obviously 
 things about it that could have been tweaked and made better and in Resident evil 5 capcom took 
 this on board and have delivered a game which ticks all he boxes. the game is responsive, fluid, 
 the graphics are astounding and story is magnificent. It deserves to be held as the single best 
 game for the xbox.
  
  In saying that many of the minor changes from resident evil 4 to 5 were successful there is still 
 the underlying feeling that while all the work was done making these changes happened a lot of 
 the stuff that was perfect about resident evil 4 was allowed to be downsized ever so slightly so 
 the end result is a game that has improved on its predecessor while at the same time not quite 
 achieving the immortal status with which resident evil 4 is held with 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrydandan
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and didn't open it, because i bought it impulsively because i'm a huge Resident 
 evil fan up until Resi 4, that is. And i downloaded the demo from Xbox Live, and read numerous 
 review, for me they're just unreliable now-a-days, because it feels like such a terrible game, 
 luckily i kept it in the packaging and got my money back. Everything feels so clunky and just not 
 fun, from the targeting system to the annoying partner, it's just all terrible. Plus, for me it's 
 about the zombies, or lack of them since 4, i mean, lets be honest, guando's are crap, not like 
 the classic zombies. 
  
  In conclusion, personally i'm boycotting Resident evil for the time being, with the way it's being 
 it's just not the same anymore, nothing in it appeals to me as it once did, i consider Resi 2 one 
 of the best games of all time, and this as one of the worst... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan42
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  So the umbrella corporation is no more, luckily for the sequel the virus finds it's way into the 
 hands of African terrorists and thus begins a new RE adventure.
  
  The very first thing to be said about the latest installment are the graphics. Saying that they 
 are jaw-dropping is an understatement. I'm playing it on a widescreen 1080p HD monitor and can 
 honestly say that this game get's really close to theatrical CGI visuals and is even worth getting 
 just to stare at.
  
  As for the rest, it's pretty much what you'd expect from the RE franchise.
  
  Apart from the 
 focus on teamplay (Which can seem a bit out of place for a single player game) , the gameplay differs 
 little from the previous RE4: You'll find yourself fighting endless waves of infected using the 
 same run-stop-and-aim method. The inventory is still intact and the first-aid sprays, colored herbs 
 and generic weapons all return.
  I'm personally not a fan of aiming with the stick and would have welcomed some sort of improvement 
 on that. Luckily (And strangely) the zombies will only charge at you in bursts, walking slowly 
 towards you for most of the time.
  As I said, the game focuses on team play. Some actions require a partner and you can issue simple 
 commands which, for the aiming impaired like me, take a decent load off your side.
  
  The soundtrack is decent though nothing special and the voice acting suits the characters well. 
 Also of note is that this installment is presented a little more cinematic than the previous games, 
 with excellent integration of prerendered cutscenes.
  
  Sadly, or luckily depending on how you see it, the game does not try to stray too far from the 
 original formula and doesn't break any new ground.
  
  Final Verdict: Unless you really dislike the RE games you better have a good reason not to play 
 this. Even then, it's worth getting for the visuals alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicsludge56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is a very well constructed game. I will do this review in a constructed mannor 
 also :P
  
  Graphics: To fully appreciate this games graphics you will need an HD television. However, the 
 difference isn't THAT big, and i am quite happy playing it on a 'normal' television. Also, when 
 playing in HD, i don't know whether it's my TV, but it gets a bit liny accross the screen. Minor, 
 but sometimes annoying.
  
  Story: Basically the same as other Resident Evils; the world is again in danger from bioterrorism 
 and it's your job to sort it out. It's in a new environment (which at first caused some controversy 
 over racism, but i won't go into that) . 
  
  Gameplay: Resident Evil gameplay dramatically improved in RE4, with an 'over-the-shoulder' 3rd 
 person view, whereas before it was an overhead view (and forward on the analog stick/directional 
 buttons was always forwards, regardless of the way the character was facing on screen) . I would 
 like to mention that people have been complaining about the fact you cannot move and shoot... quite 
 frankly, i don't mind this at all. 
  
  Difficulty: I rated this 'just right' because there are a variety of settings (amateur, normal, 
 veteran, etc) . It isn't too hard/too easy purely because you can play it on whatever difficluty 
 you wish. Personally, i have done it on amateur, normal and veteran without too much of a problem, 
 but i did play RE4 A LOT.
  
  Lifespan: The will to get a better time, collect all the BSAA emblems, fully upgrade weapons, etc, 
 should keep you entertained for a while. I think i have near enough 30 hours of gameplay now, and 
 intend to keep playing it until i have near enough all the achievements (I have the 360 version) 
 and completed all the story/extras.
  
  Criticisms: The only complaint i have is with the AI (artificial intelligence) . The other character, 
 if AI, is always very slow to react. For example, when trying to move quickly, waiting for your 
 partner at doors isn't constructive.
  
  To sum up, Resident Evil 5 is a really good game. Let down minorly by the AI, but everything else 
 about it is fantastic. I would definitely reccommend it, and if i could, would rate it at 9.7, 
 but 9.5 will be enough
  
  Thanks for reading, hope it helped, now go buy it! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_3691
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 9, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way I loved Resident Evil 4 it was the best game of the last console 
 generation and managed to save a series that was becoming stale. So with Resident Evil 5 been the 
 spiritual successor you can see why it pains me to say that Resi 5 isn't up to it's predecessors 
 brilliance and isn't even that good.
  
  The Resident Evil stories have always been shambolic with some truly terrible writing and characters 
 so it comes as no surprise that the Resi 5 story is as bad as usual. You play as Chris Redfield 
 (who seems to have channelled Big Poppa Pump Scott Steiner judging by his frighteningly large biceps) 
 who we all remember from the original mansion incident who now works for the Anti-Bio-Terrorist 
 group BSAA and he has been sent to Kijuju to investigate into apparent terrorist activity. He is 
 introduced to his new partner Sheva Alomar and together they must defeat the Infected/Mutants/Zombies 
 who are known as the Majini and recurring baddie Albert Wesker. The story is predictable, boring 
 and the writing atrocious but this is common Resi fare the problem is that Capcom desperately try 
 to tie up all the loose ends from past games in the series but this is a next to impossible task 
 since there are so many viruses, companies, characters and their motivations floating around coupled 
 with the new ones this game introduces that you need a degree in Rocket Science to understand it 
 especially since it's debateable that the writer even knows what crap he's going to spew out next. 
 
  
  Now the big addition for Resi 5 is the Co-Op partner Sheva now the first problem with this is that 
 Resi games have always been solo experiences which garners the sense of tension that survival horror 
 is all about but since Resident Evil is now more action orientated I'll let that slide, the problem 
 is that Sheva is a bloody annoyance from start to finish. First off she follows you like a trained 
 dog and never flanks the enemy or takes the heat off you when your cornered and has the uncanny 
 ability to get in the way every time you line up a sniper shot. Secondly she always reverts back 
 to the handgun no matter what beast of a weapon you give her one time I gave her a rocket launcher 
 to take out a particularly annoying boss and instead of using it she puts it away and goes back 
 to the handgun this becomes more annoying the harder the enemies get as she barely deals any damage. 
 Thirdly she is obsessed with healing you even when you've barely been damaged and comes charging 
 after you with first aid sprays when a small herb would suffice. Finally she never uses grenades 
 or mines and instead just lets them clog up her inventory when more important items could be used. 
 Also when she dies you die and that completely baffles me, why is it my fault that she can't run 
 past a lumbering man with a chainsaw, surely this can't be my fault and if she must die why can't 
 I carry on by myself like how this game is meant to be played. Admittingly playing Co-Op with a 
 friend is fun but Sheva feels tagged on as there are no moments, puzzles or set pieces in the game 
 that couldn't be done on your own. 
  
  Resident Evil 5 is an exciting game with plenty of Majini to shoot and weapons to do it with but 
 it has an overriding sense of dj vu as many of the set pieces are identical to Resi 4. For example 
 in the opening section the entire village is alerted to your presence and tries to kill you sound 
 familiar? How about a man with a sack on his head brandishing a chainsaw? Or a giant troll? The 
 game is so familiar to Resi 4 that at times it seems like your playing the same game but the problem 
 is that because it's so familiar nothing about Resi 5 makes it stand out as it's predecessor did 
 it a lot better. 
  
  The control scheme from Resi 4 is present here so you have the over-the-shoulder viewpoint with 
 a laser aim on your weapon and it still works fine but times have moved on since Resi 4 and updates 
 needed to be made to the control scheme for example you still can't move while aiming and while 
 it does create tension it also creates frustration as Gears of War and Dead Space have moved the 
 idea forward and it seems like stubbornness from Capcom to not do the same. Chris still can't run 
 very fast and you need to use the right analogue stick to control the camera but when you are running 
 this just isn't possible as you need to hold the A button to run in the first place but these are 
 minor complaints though. The one thing that didn't work though is halfway through the game the 
 Majini inexplicably learn how to use guns and so you must take cover when they are firing but once 
 your in cover you can't move along it so you have to leave cover to move along your cover it's 
 ridiculous when games like Gears have already perfected the cover system it feels like were going 
 back in time and why allow the Majini to have guns anyway it's not in keeping with the rest of 
 the game at all.
  
  Ok we've put it off long enough one of the main problems with the game is the inventory system. 
 What was wrong with the Resi 4 attach case system I thought it was a brilliant idea which made 
 you consider which guns to keep with you but now each character has a 3X3 grid where each item 
 takes up one space so Rocket Launcher takes up the same amount of space as an egg it's completely 
 baffling. Ammo stacks but the herbs don't and although they can be combined if you have no space 
 it just has to be left there you can't even use it on the spot. You can swap items between the 
 two characters but the game doesn't pause when you do it so if you want a herb during a fight you're 
 as good as dead unless you can find a quiet place to swap things about. The whole system is too 
 fiddly and causes frustration more than tension once again.
  
  There are good things about Resi 5 despite all of it's faults it is still an exciting and fun game 
 to play especially with a friend and some of the boss fights are spectacular in scale and enjoyment. 
 It does capture moments of pure thrills and tension especially when you are low on ammo and it 
 never becomes a chore to play during the 10 hours it takes to complete it. The graphics deserve 
 a mention as they are the best on the console by a mile with plenty of detail put into the African 
 setting that it does immerse you in the experience. There are plenty of things to do when you have 
 completed the game include ding the return of the ever fun Mercenaries mode where you compete for 
 high scores in a time limit and this can provide hours of entertainment if you are a high score 
 junkie. There are figurines to collect to unlock other features such as camera filters and you 
 can unlock unlimited ammo for weapons when you have finished the game to have a quick blast through 
 the single player mode which is fun. The voice acting is as hilariously brilliant as always special 
 mentions go to Chris Redfield's emotionless performance and the fact that Sheva's accent goes from 
 African to British halfway through the game plus Albert Wesker in general.
  
  Ultimately Resident Evil 5 is a victim of it's own hype and past glories of Resi 4 as it can never 
 truly live up to them and while it does provide a overly similar but enjoyable experience some 
 of the gameplay additions or lack of them make the game frustrating and at times outdated experience. 
 In the end the game gets a recommendation but Resident Evil 6 is going to have to be a big overhaul 
 of a series that is once again in danger of becoming stale.
  
  Pros
  
  + Exciting Gameplay which creates a sense of tension
  + Beautiful Graphics and a perfectly realised 
 African setting
  + Co-Op gameplay with a friend is a blast
  + Control Systems work well for the most part
  
  Cons
  
  - Controls needed an overhaul 
 in certain areas and the cover system is horrific
  - Sheva is an annoyance in single player 
  - Story is as terrible as usual
  - Inventory is 
 awkward and the game is overly familiar
  
  Overall
  
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign357
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  To start, i have always been a huge Resident Evil fan. Ever since the first one came out, i've 
 been all over them. From 1-3, they were my favorite games for Playstation. However, when Resident 
 Evil 4 rolled around, i wasn't such a big fan. The whole survival aspect of the game slowly started 
 to fade out, and it started becoming more and more like any other average shooter. Once you started 
 picking up gold from monsters, i turned my head away and decided to not bother with them anymore. 
 Resident Evil 5 is a great game, dont get me wrong. However, its just not how it used to be, and 
 original RE series fans won't be as thrilled with RE5 as those of whom have just picked up the 
 series starting with this one. I liked the series because you had to constantly solve extremely 
 challenging riddles, and overall RE 1-3 were great survival horror games. But like I said, they 
 now have faded away from that genre and are now simply shooters. I mean, come on, they're hardly 
 even about zombies anymore. Zombies shooting weapons and rocket launchers at you? No thanks. Even 
 melee weapons like knives and machetes are a bit of a stretch. I would have liked very much more 
 if it was still all about the virus spreading to African villages with little or no healthcare, 
 serving as a conductor to spread the virus widely throughout tribal Africa. While it may sound 
 like i'm just talking a bunch of **** on this game, there were some great elements to this game. 
 I really liked how they encorporate the previous games into the storyline, and how Chris is the 
 main character and Jill is involved much throughout the game (I won't include any spoliers) . The 
 game even features revised cinematics that are flashbacks of things that have happened in previous 
 games. I really liked that. All of the old stuff, like including fights with lickers and things 
 like that were awesome. Now onto the actual review. Gameplay - The gameplay is great, and after 
 they revised the original terrible shooting controls, they are flawless. You may not like the controls 
 at first, but after a few hours they feel natural and easy enough. The gameplay is never too repetitive 
 and always is full of surprises throughout the game. Difficulty + Length - This is perhaps one 
 of the only things i truly hated about this game. The older Resident Evils took me weeks to complete, 
 because i'd often get stuck on really hard riddles and boss fights. In RE 5, almost all of the 
 boss fights are too easy to figure out how to win them with no problems. That i really did not 
 like. The game was also VERY short, and i beat it in a matter of two days with time to spare. Graphics 
 - Most likely the main strength of the game. The graphics are incredible, maybe even one of the 
 best looking games i've ever played on the Xbox 360 or even the computer. Everything is flawless, 
 including the textures, animations, and models and weapons. Overall, its a great game, but it feels 
 almost like the game was made by different developers. It's still a must buy, but it may not impress 
 the hardcore RE fans gameplay wise. I give the game a 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  The new installment in the Resident Evil series has arrived once again taking place in Africa where 
 you play as Chris Redfield the Main Character in Resident Evil and Resident Evil 5. This time this 
 is more survival action then horror. Sheva Alomar is your partner throughout the game which she 
 helps you with certain parts in game. Chris and Sheva are both BSAA working together to find information 
 about the attack and you need to gain information. It also tells us about the past about Jill chris 
 first partner beginning of the series in Resident Evil. Chris is struggling in troublesome nightmares 
 from the past.
  
  This quite similar to Resident Evil 4 but it change quite a lot. Now you can able to play co-op 
 with friends locally or online. As well you can play versus online with friends or other people 
 against each other. Alot of people compare it to RE4 but this one has change quite alot it might 
 be the same concept as RE4 but this one you work as a team helping your partner to survive through-out 
 the game. In RE4 you won't able to survive because the AI in that game wasn't useful. In this one 
 you get a chance to survive when the dying is display sheva is here to help you to gain some health 
 back or the other way around.
  
  Even though the Resident evil series has change from horror to survival-shooter it quite well balance 
 now. I like how they use online now helping your friends to survive. This is quite a new start 
 for Resident Evil Series making it different from the other Resident evil series. It also quite 
 similar when you use combos to hit the zombies and also when you do the right timing Sheva also 
 can help you as well. Many people complain the controls is different slow. But this is how the 
 Resident Evil series always been, even though they change some formats in the game making it more 
 up to date. 
  
  When using the inventory in the game it holds very little of ammo, guns and medicine. You cannot 
 able to upgrade any slots to make it more inventory so basically you stuck with 9 slots while playing 
 through the game. When playing co-op it a lot better to play with friends, when you play alone 
 using the computer AI it doesn't really help at all. When giving instructions sometimes it doesn't 
 follow what you like Sheva to do. I suggest that if you play this game make sure that if you have 
 a friend who doesn't mind playing co-op it's a lot better and sometimes you may miss something 
 when playing alone.
  
  The graphic has change quite a lot, when you originally play the first Resident evil it looks non-realistic 
 and you play RE5 this is more realistic. The story-line is really interesting and this keeps you 
 on the edge wanting to know more about the truth. It's quite story is quite fast and keeps going 
 to the end. Also the bonus feature helps you a lot when upgrading weapons you can able to get infinite 
 ammo.. I also like how you can use flash grenades as well to blind your enemies.
  
  When playing Original Resident evil the dialogue's can be cheesy then, but it improve the diolgues 
 now are a lot better then before, the cut-scenes now is more action the original one. The voice 
 acting matches the characters. It that time the game to me wasn't cheessy but now once you look 
 back it kind makes you laugh how it changed from that to this. I also miss the scare factor, this 
 one doesn't really have it at all. 
  
  Pros:
  -The story-line is more interesting 
  -Fun action pack making you want to play more.
  -It's quite challenging when you play with co-op 
 with a friend helping each other
  -Makes you want to play more.
  cons:
  -AI sometimes doesn't follow instructions to well
  -Inventory is limited only holds certain amount.
 
  -The horror factor is not there anymore
  
  If you really a Resident Evil fan this game is a great to own. Even though it went many changes 
 this game is quite fun to play with friends. I say this game is a must buy espically if you are 
 a fan of this series. Resident evil 5 brings back memories how different from the past Resident 
 Evil serie change to dramaically to now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VENOM192
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2009 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is great, I mean the character's look amazing and so does the environments, co-op 
 is fun, a few good scares here and there, good storyline and there are tons to do after you finished 
 the game. The story starts ten years after the destruction of Raccoon city, Chris Redfield is a 
 former S. T. A. R. S. Alpha team member but recently joined B. S. A. A. The anti-bio-organic weapon organization 
 travels around the globe to destroy Umbrella's creations which fallen into the hands of terrorists, 
 But when Chris hears that a weapon dealer will be making a big deal in a African nation called 
 Kijuju, he goes to put a stop to it but then hears about a doomsday project called Uroboros. Chris 
 is joined by a local B. S. A. A agent named Sheva, and they have a busy month ahead of them, killing 
 villagers, shooting tires of infected biker's, killing mutated monster's and they also have to 
 make sure the dog's don't get a chance to bite your head off. There are some annoying thing's in 
 Resident Evil 5, like Sheva in single player who has a motive to use only her pistol, even if she 
 has a RPG in her inventory she'll never use it unless she runs out of ammo. Trying to aim is also 
 irritating but it isn't something, but what I really hated was, let's say you buy yourself a RPG, 
 it's quite impossible to find ammo for it and you can't even buy ammo for it. But I found the game 
 a little boring after a while, but don't worry after a few hours you'll want to hop back right 
 on and kill some infected mutants! Despite its flaws, Resident Evil 5 is a good game for you and 
 your mates and it's fun to use a stun rod (no I'm serious) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  WOW. Thats the first word that comes to mind once you begin playing Resident Evil 5. This game 
 is fun, for fans, newcomers, for anyone, this game is just plain amazing.
  
  Story : So you play as Chris Redfield former S. T. A. R. S. member and now working for the BSAA, a 
 group that fights against bio-terroism. Chris is sent on a mission to a village in Africa called 
 Kijuju with his new partner, Sheva Alomar. Together, they both have to find out what caused the 
 Racoon City outbreak and prevent another one in the village. Everything starts going bad when your 
 fellow squad mates begin to die and the villagers become hostile. Umbrella and Tri-Cell are now 
 working together and have released a new virus called Uroboros. It takes over the victim completely 
 and makes them deadly and turn into worm like things. So the hostile villagers are called "Manjini" 
 and will stop at nothing to kill you. Alright I won't spoil anything, but there are plenty of boss 
 battles which are a lot of fun and you even get to battle an old foe. It's not scary anymore, but 
 it sure is great. Overall 9.5/10
  
  Gameplay/Controls : AI is smart, though Sheva does sometimes use a lot of ammo, but that doesn't 
 matter, as she always has your back. Controls are not for everybody but they are very easy to get 
 used to. You use the same over the shoulder perspective used in RE4 when you played as Leon. When 
 you aim to shoot somebody, you have to stop and aim. Close combat using the knife also stops you, 
 but it is easy. Sometimes it stinks to stop and shoot, because when you stop you are vunerable. 
 Overall 9 /10
  
  Graphics/Sound : The graphics are amazing. They are very realistic and make you go "wow" whenever 
 you play or watch a cutscene. There are never any techinicle problems, so you always see amazing 
 texture and environments. The sound is also great and the groans and spooky noises you hear sound 
 like they are coming from your room. Espicially the creepy noise of a spider crawling and once 
 they pounce on you. Overall : 10/10
  
  Multiplayer : Co-op isn't needed, but it sure is helpful, and it's always fun to play with a friend. 
 Mercanaries mode is also great and teamwork is essential. Versus mode (released today 4/7/09) involves 
 2 teams of 2 killing each other while you are attacked by the infected. Overall : 9.5/10
  
  
  Overall : The game deserves much more than an 8.5, and I rate it a 9.5. Any RE5 fan or shooter 
 fan should pick it up, and no one should neglect it just because it doesn't have the same survival 
 horror feel from the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowsbrows
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  if you like resident evil games or any games really, you will probly love resident evil 5. in my 
 oppinon it is the best coop game that i have ever played. the first time you play the game it would 
 probly take about 10-20 hours to beat. the graphics in the game are amazing and gameplay is awsome. 
 the type of game it is would probly be an adveture shooter. in the game you have to find or buy 
 youre items. there are tons of items in the game like rocket launchers, michene guns, shotguns, 
 snipers, pistols and other guns.
  
  the online in the game is very fun in my oppinon.
  
  you can play coop story at home or online and the story is awsome.
  
  it a grrrrrrrrr rrrrrrrrrrrr 
 rrrrreeeeeee eeaaaaaaaaat game and deffenitly a contender for game of the year and you should get 
 it.
  
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:57 am PT
Review:  Honestly the Resident Evil 5 demo didn't persuade me. The archaic control scheme and a frequent 
 shortage of ammunition didn't help the game making a good impression to me. But now that I completed 
 the full version is this opinion still current?
  
  
  Resident Evil 5 definetly is not a horror game. Who is searching for a horror game should pick 
 up Dead Space as RE5 is rather an action game with lots of tension. So what does it separate from 
 other games of this franchise? The fun you will have in multiplayer and the fast-pacing that keeps 
 your eyes glued to the screen. Prepare not to have lots of time to rest because there will always 
 be something happening which needs your attention.
  Even if it's lacking of a scary atmosphere it is still a great game. The designers did their homework 
 with an amazing setting and lighting. Whenever you think you've seen everything Capcom brings new 
 graphical tidbits on the screen. Cliffs in the red sunset and underground city ruins just look 
 awesome. The scenarios remain interesting and offer lots of variety. Besides the whole visual design 
 is utterly amazing delivering lots of detail and great character animations.
  
  
  So what is going on in Resident Evil 5? You step in the role of either a male character named Chis 
 Redfield or a female character whos name is Sheva Alomar. Both play similar and you will be accompanied 
 by either one of them within the whole story. You encounter typical infected zombie-like enemies 
 wanting to kill you.
  If you play on single-player mode you will recognize the AI companion to act rather stupid on occasion 
 and don't expect him/her to handle their inventory. You will find yourself managing the inventory 
 quite often which can get annoying. However, this isn't a problem in co-op where both players can 
 manage their items on their own. Besides your partner acts rather stupid in boss fights as well. 
 Sheva (presumed you play as Chris) unloads her magazine and keeps shooting enemies and therefore 
 use lots of ammunition without any effect. She's a bit trigger happy although her targets aren't 
 perfectly presented at times and she tends to heal at the slightest sign of a flesh wound. Fortunately, 
 this is the only major failure on the part of your AI companion. Anyhow, a human player is always 
 interesting and more clever than the AI. 
  
  
  Compared to its precursor Resident Evil 5 does no great leap for the series. Many elements of Part 
 4 have been retained, some have been improved. Anyways, it just hasn't the impact Resident Evil 
 4 made some years ago, but it is still a great game in it's own right. 
  Though RE5 goes into a new direction and the slow movement and shooting isn't for everyone the 
 teamwork which is now required gives the game a different touch and provides lots of tension and 
 depth. Thus having a partner covering your back can be very comfortable.
  
  
  There is a good variety of weapons including magnums, shotguns, sniper rifles, grenade launchers 
 etc. which all can be upgraded in capacity, strength and loading time. To that some can be improved 
 in critical hits. Especially on your first playthrough you will think a lot about which weapon 
 to equip for the next chapter. However, you can't buy ammunition which can be a problem if your 
 AI companion used it a lot without any purpose making things difficult when you need some. But 
 basically enemies will drop what you need urgently.
  
  
  Resident Evil 5 has some great voiceovers and the sound creates a good atmosphere. The weapons 
 sound authentic and the zombie-like foes will shout at you. Capcom has done a good job with the 
 sound effects.
  
  
  There is rather high replay value and you will play the game multiple times on different difficulty 
 settings. After completing the game once, which took me about 9  hours to beat with my first playthrough, 
 you will unlock a mercenaries mode, which reminded me a bit of Horde from Gears of War 2. Anyways, 
 in this mode you might fight some enemies while you have limited time. Any killed foe rewards you 
 with some points. It can be played with two players as well which can be fun.
  
  
  I wouldn't say that Resident Evil 5 is better than Resident Evil 4 at the time it came out because 
 the basic RE4 formula remains. There are some little improvement over the inventory system and 
 weapon switching with the D-pad but there is now "Wow"-effect it'd predecessor had. However, the 
 main difference is definetly it's amazing co-op which provides so much fun and that outweighs the 
 major problems of Resident Evil 5. To that you might argue about not be able to shoot while you 
 are running, but that would make the game far too easy. If you enjoyed Resident Evil 4 or like 
 action games in general it's worth playing as it delivers an amazing multiplayer.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robsonbmw
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  After playing all of the previous parts of Resident Evil and after being totally amazed and swallowed 
 by RE4, I was very much looking forward to the fifth part of the legendary series. I got the copy 
 as soon as possible, launched it and started what was to be a rather dissapointing and adrenaline 
 rush lacking trip to Africa....
  
  What I have to really give to Capcom is the loudBRAVO! for their intro's or any other in game 
 cut scenes their are providing us with. The intro to the game is beautiful and ultra realistic and 
 it charged me with the necessary vibe that is always related to high expectations and the great 
 anticipation of things to come.
  In RE5 you play as Chris Redfield, an ex S. T. A. R. S team member who thanks to his huge experience 
 related to plenty of past encounters with the Umbrella's virus victims, has been sent for yet another 
 dangerous and mysterious mission. This time he travels to Africa where he will have to discover 
 strange behavioral occurences of the native citizens that are said to be closely related to new 
 terrorist activities which are involving bioweapons and the strange virus calledUroboros ".
 
  What makes RE5 different from it's predecessor is that this time you will be investigating the 
 occurences with a partner....
  Her name is Sheva, an African sexy beauty who thanks to her great knowledge of the region was deployed 
 to be your right hand.
  
  Just this simple fact makes the new resident evil a brand new game. Yes, of course, in the previous 
 games there were times where you had apartnerby your side but those situations were as rare 
 as they were temporary.
  This time every move and action you make is the same one your partner makes as well.
  I don't 
 know about other players but for me it wasn't the kind of playing experience I usually like which 
 is solo....
  This time, not only you have to watch for yourself but you also have to watch out for your partner. This 
 of course works both ways ( many times your partner saves your life or heals you) but being on 
 a constant alert and constantly checking your partner's health or inventory was a little bit to 
 much.
  Sometimes it causes to much chaos in the area ,especially if you have to fight with hordes of zombies. You 
 die.. game ends. Your partner dies... game ends as well.
  What this change also affected in a bad way is the inventory. Now it got much smaller and is divided 
 among two people.
  At the beginning it is not irritating but the more you play and the more things you collect, the 
 tighter it becomes. You get 3-4 weapons and you barely manage to fit ammunition in there. Considering 
 that your partner also needs to be armed with weapons and ammunition ( without even mentioning 
 herbs or first aid sprays ) that makes the inventory a very tight place.
  You can of course move the items between players but it is all stressfull and many times really 
 irritating when you realise you cannot fit more ammo that you badly need only because you don't 
 have any space left and you know that in order to pick it up you would need to drop some other 
 much needed gear.
  Another irritating thing is the way the moving things work and your partner's AI related to that....
 
  Every time I wanted to make one slot available for some nice ammo I needed to pick up, I tried 
 giving it to my P but what made me mad all the time was that every time I did that she somehow 
 managed to replace it with some other type of ammo falsely assuming that I needed it even when 
 I didn't.
  When it happens out of combat, it only results in slowing down the game significantly. But when 
 it happens during combat.... then it is really frustrating!
  I really wished there was some kind of command you could use to restrict your partners from using 
 certain weapons...
  One time I gave her my rocket launcher because I needed to free one slot for a new weapon. We got 
 into fight and as soon as she used all her handgun ammo, she used that rocket launcher to shoot 
 some poor majini!
  And to make it worse, you can't even buy a bigger bag to increase your inventory!
  Really... that 
 whole partnership/inventory idea is a fiasco for me.
  RE4 was the perfect example of how it should really work....
  
  The game is full of different 
 cut scenes which are made with great attention to detail and pulls you right into the centre of 
 the plot. It's always been a pleasure watching as the story unfolded and the chemistry and corelation 
 between 2 partners is also there and well done.
  
  Gameplay.....
  
  For people acquainted with past RE4 the controls won't be a problem, especially when you can choose 
 the option to use the same controls as you used during the Las Plagas adventure. The control is 
 intuitive and it's easy to get a hang of it.
  The way you move, fight, even talk... it's all very realistic and on par with the previous part. I 
 think it's a slight improvement from RE4 as it looks less stiff and more natural.
  What I didn't like about this game in gameplay terms was thefeelof the game. It wasn't innovative. It 
 felt like the older part but with different background and story. It sometimes felt like playing 
 the same RE4 game. The same movement, same combat....
  What didn't feel the same though was the climate, atmosphere, sense of danger and fear of what may 
 come from behind that wall. It just isn't there.
  Unfortunately... RE5 feels more like Far Cry 2 rather than the same old scary resident evil I was 
 used to play. It feels more like a shooter rather than a survival horror.
  
  I don't know.. maybe Capcom is running out of ideas? Or maybe there is a limit to how many times 
 you can bake the same cake?
  One thing is for sure : RE5 doesn't have thatsomethingthat would make me play it over, over, over 
 again.
  
  With regards to monsters, zombies etc..
  There's a fair amount of different mobs you can fight against. I even noticed some that I fought 
 against in RE2. That I must admit was a nice surprise.
  But.... there's to many boss fights. Now.. I wouldn't mind them if there were some nice erhmmmm.... money 
 or gem/artifact rewards for the time and stress invested in them, but usually you get nothing from 
 killing some level-end boss. I must give it to Capcom though that the boss encounters are really 
 interesting, realistic and varied. Most of them make a really good impression and killing that tough 
 bastard really feels like an acomplishment even though their toughness and learning curve is nothing 
 comparing to some raid bosses in some MMO's :)
  
  Another problem is with the money or I should say.. lack of it.
  It's really hard to get a nice 
 amount of gold pieces in this game. Broken barrells or crates more often give you ammunition or 
 herbs than money and when you actually find it, it's usually small sums which make your decision 
 about some serious weapon upgrade to be put on hold.
  I am not saying that there is no money at all. You can collect different gems, valuables etc., but 
 even selling them won't provide you with enough amount to be able to perform some serious maintenance.
 
  In RE4 all the money you invested for improving your weapon was returned to you as soon as you 
 sold it and replaced it with a new one.
  In RE5 you lose your investment when you sell your weapons. At least in a big way.
  What I also 
 liked in the previous part was the knowledge that every new weapon you found was actually a much 
 better version of the old one. It had better damage, capacity etc.
  In this game you can have up to 4 types of the same weapon but even finding the last weapon of 
 the same type doesn't have to mean that it's the best of them. It appears that what one weapon exceeds 
 in, it also lacks in something else.
  AK 74 for example looks to have the superior damage rating but really lacks in maximum capacity. Some 
 other weapon ( which name I don't remember unfortunately ) has much better capacity but lacks in 
 damage.
  Unfortunately... considering how tough it is to get rich in this game, it is also really difficult 
 to check which one is the best as it would only be possible with maxed stats which is, as I mentioned 
 before impossible if you play the game just once......
  
  And that's the ironic thing about RE5. The inventory is much smaller, there is much less money on 
 the field but the amount of weapons is much bigger.
  It looks like Capcom wanted us to play this game couple of times in a row before we get to decide 
 what works better. All of this  system feels half baked and kind 
 of puts you away from the screen...
  
  Graphics......
  
  Now this is the area where this game excells!
  There is nothing bad I can say about it. It's 10/10!
 
  Everything from yourhero ", through npc's, mobs, surroundings looks astonishing. It looks photorealistic 
 and all the textures look like some 4x or 8x antialiasing has been applied to them. It all looks 
 neat and is just a true joy to look at.
  The conversations between you and your partners feels alive. The way they move their lips, their 
 facial expressions.... honey for the soul.
  
  Audio.....
  
  Now that's weird but when I am writing this I don't actually remember what the ingame music sounded 
 like. The only sounds I remember are sounds of  game is so 
 intense sometimes that through all that masacre and chaos I couldn't hear anything except just 
 that.
  Anyway, all of the sounds are well done. I only wish AK74 actually sounded like one with that characteristic 
 echo after the first salve. Oh well.. you can't have everything I guess....
  
  Miscelaneous.....
  
  The game is pretty long. It takes around 20-30 hours of gameplay to finish 
 it.
  The game is constructed in this way that every time you think that this must be it, it provides 
 you with new facts and new areas to explore with even more mobs to kill. The plot is well done and 
 can surprise you couple of times.
  
  Summary.....
  
  I must say I expected many things from this game. Yes.. i expected alot actually. What I got instead 
 was a nicer version of RE4 that was lacking the brilliance and the addiction factor of it's predecessor.
 
  Somehow I passed RE4 couple of times and I am still playing it while enjoying it every single 
 time...
  With RE5 it was : Bought it, Played it, Passed it, Put is aside. I tried to play it once again after 
 I finished it but I quit after 2 hours. The addiction and fun factor is just not there...
  A big shame I must say.
  So to be frank... buy it and play it if you love the RE series. Don't 
 expect miracles and if you loved RE4, don't expect better experience. This game is good but for me 
 currently.... RE4 still is number one.
  
  Resident Evil 4 FTW!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FOURTY
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:27 am PT
Review:  I'm disapointed... RE4 on the GameCube was (and still is) in my top 5 games of all time. I love 
 that game to death. Needless to say my expectations of RE5 where high. Too high. RE4 is better. 
 The changes made here DO NOT make this version a better game in my opinion. *The open landscape 
 This is supposed to be Resident Evil! It was okay for RE4 because that game handled the change 
 almost flawlessly. RE5 doesn't. The fear factor is offically gone.
  
  *The co-op gameplay Got a mate? Great. I do, but none of them like RE5. I tried my best to convert 
 them but after playing the first chapter, they couldn't be bothered. And what disturbed me was 
 that I actually agreed.
  
  *The 'updated' graphics RE4 was great. RE5 is great. Next point...
  
  *The control tweaks etc. 
 Am I the only one who feels RE5 is more sluggish than RE4? It just doesn't feel right.
  
  I found this game frustrating as hell to play and I never felt that with RE4 on the GC. As I played 
 RE4 to bits, I started RE5 on the veteren difficulty thinking 'okay, I'm a seasoned pro, let's 
 do this!'. The problem is that it wasn't too hard but the control system feels so 'strange' that 
 I died many times for the stupidest of things. Examples: *Early on, I confused hand grenades for 
 the first aid sprays which where made to look the same for some reason. *The fact that changes 
 to inventory are now real time. Great! I need ammo but have to fiddle around to make space and 
 then request items and then select and use them. Oops! Dead already! *The computer ai. Sheva get's 
 in my way and wastes ammo. Nuff said.
  
  *Enemies that are just annoying to shoot. Those damn dogs are a pain! The speed of the cursor & 
 aiming doesn't feel 'right' in my opinion.
  
  *Shaking free from enemy grapples, dogs etc. Using the left analog stick to shake free was a very 
 bad choice. Could we just bash the buttons? I shouldn't be dying cus I can't shake a dog off by 
 waggling my stick frantically enough.
  
  I could go on.... but you get my point.
  Don't believe the hype on this one.
  
  6.5/10 is my score.
  
  In comparison, my score for 
 RE4 was 9.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kegeto
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Although Resident evil 5 was a good storyline this game does tie with the first Resident evil as 
 well as Wesker background his real story. Supposedly This game is almost like Resident evil 4 nothing 
 new acceptation of Plot twist and Intense moments. But I think of it more of RE4 and Re0 had a 
 one night stand and RE5 came out. But what make this game stand out is the online game. It wasn't 
 the fact that Re outbreak 1 and 2 was one of the first re games to push to the online gaming in 
 the RE world. What make Re5 special is that You play only 2 people and that tends to get disappointment. 
 Although this game can be fun. They do bring back some of the resident evil characters such as 
 Chris Jill and Wesker. Leon was mention only 1 time. But, what makes this game storyline is that 
 fact that it all about Bio-terrorist. What brings this game out of it most fun and intense are 
 the action button game play. and the feeling your being watch. It does goes back to it roots. And 
 we get to see wesker become the next Jumper/ Smith. But, I was hoping you would play as Wesker 
 in the game. That would be cool. But for now Resident evil 5 isn't as good as Re4 but It was better 
 than any resident evil game. What this game does though is that we know the real horror is not 
 over. My theory is that Wesker is still alive. and They going to make RE6. If they don't than Resident 
 evil series would be stupid. But for now let enjoy that RE5 did brought back few things. Online 
 tense in the air and funny moments. I gave this game a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 6, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning of 2005, survival horror had begun to move from a long-standing genre in video 
 games into a cult fandom. The origins of the genre began with the frightening surprises of games 
 like Capcom's famed series, Resident Evil, what many regard as the definitive survival horror game. 
 After sticking to remakes and spinoffs, Capcom's survival-horror opus of a franchise, Resident 
 Evil, began to wane. Complaints of the tank-style controls, awkward camera angles, and overuse 
 of pre-rendered environments began to surface. Then Capcom showed up with the fourth installment 
 in the Resident Evil franchise, and everything changed. After being released on the Gamecube, Playstation 
 2, PC, and Wii, Resident Evil 4 reinvented the struggling survival-horror genre over and over, 
 widely being regarded as the greatest revitalization of a franchise in gaming history. Not only 
 that, but it was a blast to play. Expectations for the Resident Evil series' future have risen 
 to unbelievable levels; could a game actually surpass the superb RE4? Well, we've been slaying 
 Ganados and Gigantes for four long years, but Capcom has finally released the next installment 
 in the now reborn Resident Evil series. Resident Evil mainstay Chris Redfield returns to the star 
 position, but can his newest adventure live up to Resident Evil 4's tremendous quality?
  
  With Leon S. Kennedy's adventure at a close, Resident Evil 5 picks up with zombie-slaying master 
 Chris Redfield, the hero of the original Resident Evil. Still recovering from the mental deprivation 
 of the past, Chris returns to the force, this time exploring a biohazard uprising in Africa. Chris 
 meets up with a new companion named Sheva Alomar and together, the two uncover some disturbing 
 events behind a new experiment in Africa. While Resident Evil 4 stood as a side-story, Resident 
 Evil 5 hits home when it comes to returning to familiar territory. Plenty of familiar faces are 
 brought up in flashbacks, and early on, you'll find that Umbrella isn't quite as dead as Chris 
 and crew had hoped. It's great to see the story adapted so well, and fans of the Resident Evil 
 franchise who've been wondering what happened to many of the main characters will love Resident 
 Evil 5.
  
  The controls of Resident Evil 5 are mindfully aware of fluid control setup of Resident Evil 4, 
 but there are a few new options. From the start, there is a good selection of different controls, 
 one of which is the traditional control setup of Resident Evil 4. This is a good option, but Resident 
 Evil 5 is extremely set on action, so the original RE4 controls don't pan out as well when horde 
 upon horde of enemies is breathing down your neck. Fortunately, the new control setup works well. 
 You can aim with the right analog stick and shoot using the triggers, with the face buttons being 
 used for running, selecting inventory, and using context-sensitive action commands. Considering 
 that Resident Evil 5 is a much faster and more action-oriented game, these controls are actually 
 good. Many will scoff at the idea of not being able to move and shoot simultaneously, but overall, 
 the controls are easy to learn and work well when exploring the hazardous environments of Resident 
 Evil 5.
  
  A major aspect of Resident Evil 5 is the co-op option. You can play through the entire campaign 
 with a friend locally or over Xbox Live, which does add some fun to the entire experience. Communication 
 between your teammate and yourself is smooth, and there are some fun co-op specific moments that 
 really show a new dimension to how we play cooperatively in video games. However, if you're not 
 playing alongside a human player, you'll find the computer controlled character Sheva to be a serious 
 pain. If you played Resident Evil 4, you may recall controlling Ashley. Think of that, but worse. 
 The CPU character will usually forget about the strongest weapon in their arsenal, instead relying 
 on the pistol. You also have to share ammunition with Sheva, keep her alive, and if she (or you) 
 hit a certain "dying" point, consider it game over if you can't resuscitate her or get resuscitated 
 yourself. She will use herbs to heal even when you don't want her to, she doesn't aim for the skull 
 when firing away at enemies, and worst of all, there are sequences where you must protect her. 
 This all adds up to a poorly-executed chore of a co-op system. If you really want to see the best 
 in Resident Evil 5's co-op system, grab a friend and play through the campaign with them. The computer-controlled 
 teammate is too mechanical and disorderly, making playing through the game as a single player a 
 real bore.
  
  Which brings up another issue: the inventory. It's a nightmare. Unlike the almost puzzle-like Attache 
 Case of RE4, each character gets nine spaces for items, weapons, ammo, and armor. There isn't an 
 option to immediately use an item when you see it. So if you want to use that herb you see, but 
 your inventory's full, tough. You have to use up a spot, either by use or discard. This would be 
 more bearable if the game paused itself when organizing inventory, but you'll be sifting through 
 your inventory while hordes of monstrous enemies breathe down your neck. You do have a shortcut 
 when pressing the D-Pad (which lets you switch from the top, right, left, and bottom slots in your 
 inventory) , but there's still no excuse for such a convoluted method of organizing your equipment. 
 You also cannot combine herbs or ammo unless they are owned by a single character. The restrictions 
 and sloppiness of the inventory system are inexcusable in such a strong action title like Resident 
 Evil 5, making organizing your pickups messy and annoying.
  
  Resident Evil 5 is not a scary game. Admittedly, there are moments in the game where something 
 will surprise you, but the game as a whole lacks atmosphere and the unsettling ambiance of its 
 predecessor. Even after playing Resident Evil 4 countless times, the game still managed to create 
 a haunting tone. During the first playthrough of Resident Evil 5, I was scared only a handful of 
 times. These complaints stem from a variety of issues. Firstly, there's too much daylight. Sure, 
 seeing a creepy leech-like parasite burst from an enemy's head is startling (and kind of nauseating) , 
 but seeing so many of these enemies in broad daylight won't leave you too panicked. Secondly, the 
 enemies are, in a way, too intelligent. Instead of groaning and stumbling toward you like the enemies 
 of Resident Evil's past, you'll see enemies wielding advanced weapons and even driving motorcycles. 
 If that doesn't make you cringe in disbelief, I don't know what will. Finally, the co-op factor, 
 though a cool inclusion, keeps the scares at bay. Having a friend with you (even over Xbox Live) 
 cuts off the loneliness and emptiness that the games' atmosphere produced. You always feel like 
 someone has your back. The lack of scary ambiance is a very polarizing issue; either you'll love 
 the action-based scenarios, or you'll hate them. Being that Resident Evil has based itself on scary, 
 unsettling environments, it's a shame that the scares have been nearly eliminated. The result is 
 a solid action game, but a poor horror game.
  
  If you can overlook Resident Evil 5's flaws, you'll find an action game with plenty of substance. 
 There are a slew of sequences with plenty of swarming enemies, many with weird and grotesque new 
 forms. The diversity in the sequences is actually quite impressive. You'll go from exploring dank 
 caverns to avoiding huge crocodiles on a raft. Fortunately, the environments produce a degree of 
 diversity that will quench your action-starved nerves. The quick-time events during cutscenes return, 
 though not in huge quantities. The integration of a cover system makes an interesting debut, though 
 these are context-sensitive sequences; you can't use any wall as cover as in Gears of War. The 
 action in Resident Evil 5 is very well done thanks to some great environments, harrowing encounters, 
 solid control, and fun diversity.
  
  The presentation in Resident Evil 5 is absolutely stunning. If you recall, Resident Evil 4 pushed 
 the Gamecube and PS2 to their limit, and Resident Evil 5 takes that one step further for the new 
 generation. The characters' motions are realistic and fluid. The amount of lighting effects is 
 amazing; bright flashes from flash grenades, shimmering water reflecting light, and massive bloom 
 effects are just the tip of the iceberg. The cinematics are especially fun to watch, with excellently 
 choreographed fight sequences that would make the folks from the Matrix step back in awe. In addition, 
 the voice acting is actually good. Yeah, some moments can be cheesy, but Resident Evil 5 really 
 shows how far we've come since the original Resident Evil's ridiculous dialogue. Presentation-wise, 
 Resident Evil 5 stands tall above the rest, showing an amazingly realized world with plenty of 
 strong animations and sound.
  
  Pros
  + Co-op gameplay adds interesting new dimension to Resident Evil franchise
  + Controls work fluidly
 
  + High-intensity action is full of unique challenges
  + Storyline is excellently presented
  + Amazing presentation
  
  Cons
  - Scare factor is 
 missing
  - Partner artificial intelligence is awful
  - Inventory is far too limiting
  
  Resident Evil 5 does its best to step away from the criticisms of its past by introducing plenty 
 of action-based alterations to the gameplay, but the end result just doesn't satisfy the way is 
 amazing predecessor did. The computer controlled partner is flawed, the inventory is a mess, but 
 the most painful of changes is the lack of the scares of former Resident Evil games. These changes 
 may make for a slightly better action experience, but the horror is far too minimal to quench the 
 thirst of Resident Evil veterans. That being said, the action is very well accomplished. From the 
 weapons to the environments to the overall challenges, Resident Evil 5 takes great strides towards 
 a better action game. Pack in a stellar presentation and you essentially get a new type of Resident 
 Evil game, for better or for worse. There are some critical flaws that could've easily been altered 
 to make for a better game, but that doesn't stop Resident Evil 5 from being a solid, action romp 
 with plenty of fun moments worth visiting. If you liked Resident Evil 4 and don't mind a little 
 more action than horror, Resident Evil 5 will be your cup of tea. Is it better than Resident Evil 
 4? Absolutely not. Is it a great game? Absolutely so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: breakitapart
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Playing co-op online with a friend is really quite fun and satisfying. Ammo and item management 
 require a bit of attention throughout the game but it doesn't mar anything as you get to sell treasure 
 you collect and level up weapons. As everyone has said the graphics are great and the music is 
 top notch. The 3rd person view really gets the player into the game ala Dead Space. Most if not 
 all of the shooting weapons have laser beams attached to their frickin heads... I mean barrels. 
 It is hilarious to see a laser site on a shotgun. The variety in game play styles in driving various 
 vehicles, mounted machine guns, and sprinkled button press mini games ala God of War really makes 
 this game rock the casba. 
  I have not played this game single player yet although I can imagine it being a little tougher 
 as no else is there to watch your back. I am hoping that the next Resident Evil is just as good 
 if not better than this one. 
  A couple of things I wish the game had: The ability to collect and carry as many items as I want 
 and the ability to save at any point in the game. I have not played RE4 but now I am seriously 
 considering it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing visuals, gameplay, boss fights, and story, lots of replay value, co-op is a blast
 
  
  The Bad: Sheva's AI can be questionable some times, to similar to RE4, shorter than RE4, just isn't 
 RE4
  
  I was waiting for this game ever since I stepped foot into RE4 2 years ago (on the better PS2 version) . 
 For some reason RE5 feels like RE4.5 since it feels so similar and this was a big disappointment 
 for me. Don't get me wrong RE5 is phenomenal, but all the similarities can make avid RE4 players 
 quickly bored and/or not so impressed. Rewind four years ago to that pre-rendered still of Chris 
 Redfield during the RE5 announcement and look (or remember) how amazing it looked.
  
  Well since it took so long to come out RE5 now looks on par with most next-gen games. It IS one 
 of the best looking games out right now, but what RE5 does that RE4 didn't do was amazing cinematic 
 cut scenes. RE4 had a lot of interactive cut scenes, but RE5's are very cinematic (buy the collector's 
 edition and you'll see the new camera technology they used to make these amazing cut scenes) . There 
 are fewer interactive cut scenes (press so-and-so button within 2-3 seconds) , but everything else 
 makes up for it. RE5's controls and basic gameplay are exactly the same as RE4's. Hey, if it ain't 
 broke don't fix it right? There's still the over-the-shoulder camera along with the whole laser 
 sight and the whole wonky control scheme. While it still works it does feel dated and I wish there 
 was a more Gears of War type control setup or even something more modern.
  
  One of my main gripes is you attache case is a whole lot smaller and you can't upgrade it like 
 in RE4. Sure you have a quick select button, but I'd prefer more room for stuff thanks. You get 
 nine NINE slots and they are quickly used up. Let's say you have a vest, four different weapons, 
 and four ammo types there's no room for health (yes it's still the stupid herb ordeal) , grenades 
 or anything else. This requires a lot more sacrificing, but thankfully your sexy buddy, Sheva Alamar, 
 has nine slots as well so you can trade and exchange items with each other. Yes, there is a "buddy 
 system" and I think in zombie ridden Africa the buddy system is great (don't worry it's not a "bodyguard" 
 system like RE4 Sheva actually fights) . Sheva's AI is pretty good... sometimes she tends to try 
 and shoot through you half the time and doesn't like to keep up with you when you're bombarded 
 with enemies.
  
  Rarely will you die from this but if you do you get mad. This is why RE5 is better played co-op 
 online or offline. This is great and even has a Left 4 Dead feel since you're surviving zombie 
 hordes while trying to stop... err... a really bad man from unleashing the new Uroboros virus around 
 the world. Since this is on a next-gen system the boss fights are bigger, badder, and tougher and 
 boy do I mean BIGGER!!! You thought the El Gigante was huge on the GC, PS2, and Wii try shooting 
 up a 30 foot flying B. O. W. or something that's the size of a naval freight ship. A few new elements 
 are added to certain boss fights such as "key weapons" and these are only good for that fight. 
 You may have a rechargeable flamethrower, RPG, or even a satellite gun kind of like the Hammer 
 of Dawn in Gears of War. While all boss fights are a major challenge you can always do it in one 
 try. There are a lot more weapons in RE5, but most of them are useless since they are slight variations 
 of other weapons. It takes longer to completely upgrade weapons and you can only do this when you 
 start the game, die, and in between levels. No there's no creepy British dude with stuff under 
 his coat selling you things. I found this change a bad one since it may hinder some people when 
 they need a weapon before a certain point. Upgrades cost a lot more and thus makes unlockables 
 harder to get.
  
  Another great thing about being next-gen is the levels are now HUGE and the puzzles are challenging, 
 but not confusing and scatter brained. There are a lot of little goodies to collect and unlock. 
 You can use points from achieving certain things (such as finding all BSAA emblems, beating certain 
 levels etc.) to unlock figurines, filters, costumes etc. These add great replay value and can make 
 the game more fun a second time. When you beat the game you get a Mercenaries mode (like in RE4) 
 that pits you against tons of zombies you have to fend off. RE5 is an amazing game, but feels too 
 similar for RE4 veterans and may hinder and bring down your expectations.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEternalNerd
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I first started playing Resident Evil when I picked up a copy of RE4 for my Wii. I instantly fell 
 in love with it, and went onto beat it multiple times. So you can understand my excitement when 
 I heard that RE5 was going to be just as good with some slight modifications. And that's just what 
 is.
  
  This is a good addition because it was very easy to just pick it up, even if you've never played 
 a Resident Evil game before. The plot makes a few moot references to RE4, and th difficulty provides 
 a challenge, but doesn't frustrate. A nice thing that it took away from RE4 is that you don't have 
 to worry about combining treasures; so now if you pick something up, just sell it. For all that's 
 good about it, RE5 does leave some things out. First, now there are only 18 inventory slots and 
 there's no way to upgrade it. Second, your partners AI is a bit unreliable, so it's best that you 
 don't give her any health items or pistol ammo (in fact, just take away her pistol; she uses it 
 non-stop and then nabs all the ammo, only to waste that) . The upgrading system is complicated to 
 understand so be sure to do some research before you upgrade anything.
  
  RE5 is a great game whether or not you are new to the series. It keeps some of the old stuff but 
 adds some new things to the table. However, no matter how balanced the weapons are, no matter how 
 much ammo there is, no matter how good the controls are, it still doesn't change the fact that 
 they didn't bring back iron-monger merchant man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sausageroll_78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Well i have just got this, I'm enjoying the Co-op with my brother, Because if you have some one 
 watching your back all the time your less creped out by this amazing game, The graphics are the 
 thing I'd like to talk about first. 
  Amazing i mean whoa, They have done some amazing textures with this game, i mean on the trailer 
 and images on the Sea monster mission is it, You can See the Ocean as far as you zoom with your 
 sniper and the graphics still Look Amazing. I'm not that far yet only about A 3rd though been playing 
 it 10hours because me and brother like getting used to the controls and such, And we want to take 
 time in a Zombie-ish masterpiece.
  Okay Now on to the story:
  Whhhooooooooooaaaa, Amazing story better then any other Resident evil 4. And that was a very good 
 story and game.
  Well i cannot go into detail for all who haven't bought this i shall not ruin.
  Sound, Music, And 
 such.
  All very good.
  
  9.5/10 it was missing the little bit extra spice to a head smashing, Knee cap breaking game.
 
  
  
  ADDED ON BIT! 
  I COMPLETED IT :)
  YAYA NOW ITS TIME FOR VERTERN WHICH IM HALF WAY THROUGH ITS EASY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soul_Of_Snake
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  
  RE5 stays true to the previous gameplay dynamic of over-the-shoulder shooter action, so well implemented 
 by RE4. The games pace is flowing, the character control feels smooth, though personally I had 
 to ramp up the aiming speed to fastest, just to get a bit more of an edge on the endless Majini. 
 Converting from a Gamecube controller to a 360 controller was a bit interesting, and when playing 
 the demo I initially had my doubts, but once getting hold of the game properly, found adjusting 
 to the controls rather easy, though quick turn around is still my Nemesis... Knife play is alot 
 easier, now that the aiming triggers have been moved to the shoulder buttons, and whipping out 
 your blade is a simple finger move away. The added extra of cover points seem a bit contrived, 
 as they are only available at certain points of the game, but they do help break up the flow of 
 the, sometimes, tunnel vision play.
  
  DIFFICULTY
  
  I started my first run through on Normal difficulty, and found myself wishing I had started it 
 on a higher difficulty. With the extra help provided by your secondary character ( AI or trusty 
 companion controlled) , the threat on amatuer and normal is somewhat diminished. If you have any 
 shooter experience, I would suggest starting on Veteran, and reaping the rewards at the finish, 
 as it is much more of an accomplished feeling getting to the end on such a setting. Throughout 
 the game, hordes of infected are thrown at you, usually at the most crucial points, and in tight 
 quarters too. My favourite encounters had to be walking through the mines, whilst either you or 
 your partner had a lamp to guide to the way through the gloom, picking out your foes in the shadows, 
 or escaping the oil refinery, with a 2 minute time limit to explosion, and the mad scramble to 
 get the docks and away in an awaiting boat, all whilst battling those intent on stopping you, well, 
 dead.
  
  Instead of a seperate bosses section, I'll just say that for the most part, the bosses caused me 
 no issues. There is no doubt that I had some deaths with them, but I didnt get to the point of 
 pulling my hair out, and there were enough prompts on screen and level design wise to figure out 
 a strategy pretty quickly e. g. first Chainsaw Majini + Explosive Barrels = Boom! For experienced 
 players, 10-12 hours of gameplay should be more than you need to get through.
  
  GRAPHICS AND LEVEL DESIGN
  
  As a next generation game, there was no doubt that with a studio 
 suchas Capcom behind it, Resident Evil 5 would come out looking nothing short of impressive. Well, 
 it looks even better than that. Firstly, the controlled characters, within gameplay and cut scenes, 
 emote so well, and have such fluid animations and reactions, that it easily outshines all that 
 is done before. I personally have never seen such subtle facial control in any video game, and 
 though slightly B-movie standard lines are being spouted, the characters do not express overly, 
 making them easier to believe. 
  
  Secondly, the enemies are well designed and detailed, and the spread and degridation of the infection 
 shows through the standard Majini as the game flows. Extra enemies such as The Axe Wielding Majini 
 ( not enough of him!) , fat Majinis, dogs, flying B. O. W. s, tentacle head Majinis, spiders, mutated 
 Majinis ( y'know, the ones that come up to you and try swallowing you whole... ) , alligators and 
 the very welcome returning Lickers... there is enough variety to make the game alot more interesting 
 to look at.
  
  Thirdly, the level design is absolutely stunning, and surprisingly varied. Special mention goes 
 to the lighting, as the team behind RE5 actually accomplished their original statement, and the 
 change from light to dark environments, on the fly, really do give you the sense that your eyes 
 are adjusting to the changes of atmosphere. Shanty towns, Abandoned Railroads, Seaside Docks, Darkened 
 Mines, Marshlands, Savannahs, Refineries, Research Facilities... such a variety of settings was 
 personally not expected, and each setting is expertly designed ( though sometimes rather linear) 
 and beautifully detailed.
  
  STORY
  
  You have to know what is going on from previous games. If this is your first Resident Evil game 
 ( and if so, shame on you!) , you are not going to have a clue what characters are talking about. 
 Alot is tied up here, Weskers origins, the reappearance of Jill Valentine, Oswald Spencer, The 
 Progenitor Virus, yet at the same time, alot of new elements are introduced in the form of Tri-Cell 
 and Uruboros to keep the formula from treading old ground too much. Hammy as hell for the most 
 part, yet all lines are delivered with believability, having some excellent voice actors ( though 
 ShevasLets make a stand for our fallen brothers!" takes the cheese awards ) . For those deep 
 in Resident Evil lore, this will service you well. Fans of Wesker may be some what dissapointed 
 at the end, but overall, the end is a natural conclusion, and it will be interesting to see where 
 the series goes from here.
  
  EXTRAS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
  
  Finishing the game on Normal or above unlocks the exclellent Mercenaries Mode, one of the fabulous 
 extras that came with RE4. The same formula applies, you have a set amount of time and ammo to 
 take down as many enemies as possible. The levels are closed off areas of certain areas in the 
 game, all littered with time extenders and combo multipliers. The more time you unlock, the more 
 enemies appear, and you will find foes appearing that require alot more tactical fighting than 
 simply blasting away. Achieving high scores unlocks extra arenas, as well as extra characters, 
 each with their own set of weapons and strengths, as well as weakness'. Also completing these levels 
 will earn you points topurchase" extras such as costumes and figurines
  
  Throughout the main game, the chapters have BSAA emblems littered throughout them. Shooting them 
 unlocks extras that can be purchased in the Bonus Features. Extra Costumes, Character Models, Different 
 Camera Filters, Unlimited Ammo are all available, though multiple playthroughs are required to 
 get everything, as certain unlocks are only available with certain rankings. There is also a huge 
 catalouge of weapons to be had, some only available when maximising certain weapons potentials 
 out completely.
  
  The majority of achievements are simple to acquire, mostly just finishing a chapter section will 
 give you another smattering of Gamer Points. Some are more difficult, naturally, and will require 
 alot of work to get... Professional mode, anyone?
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  I have enjoyed this game without a doubt. The wait from RE4 to this was not as painful, as I had 
 RE4 to play anyway. Maybe overhyped too much, and not delivering on all levels, but providing a 
 solid and rewarding gameplay experience overall
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magusat999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 1:04 am PT
Review:  Chris Redfield and Sheva star in this action - based sequel in the Resident Evil series. They are 
 hunting down a new threat - a new strain of virus more virulent and powerful than the previous 
 ones in the game series. It is very story driven, probably more a precursor to a game that will 
 take a new direction, rather than a complete game in itself. I played it halfway through with co-op 
 mode, tried to play it multi-player, and played the game all the way through in singleplayer mode 
 (in one sitting) . I found that co-op was fun, not because of the game but more because I had my 
 nephew playing as Sheva (which btw, should be pronounced 'She - vuh' with a long 'e', instead of 
 the clunky 'Shev - ah' with a short 'e' CAPCOM!) . Multiplayer for me sucked badly. it took forever 
 for someone to join, and when they did it took forever for them to set up their inventory. And 
 then the person had Sheva just standing there - until I cut off multiplayer mode. Additionally 
 the game kept nagging me about people who wanted to join, but offered no clear way to let them. 
 I'm not a fan of multiplayer games - and this did not help.
  
  Singleplayer was a blast, but for the pushing and forcing of the game to keep you going forward 
 - and the nagging i mentioned before.
  
  Controls were okay - could have been better. Reponse times were sluggish, inventory management 
 during gameplay is slow and DANGEROUS. The game does not pause while you exchange equipment.
  
  There is supposed to be some sort of quick weapon switch on the D-Pad, but it is more like 
 playing roullette - you never know what item in your inventory is going to come up. What's worse 
 about it is it often gets stuck and you cannot switch to anything. Very irritating. Very half-arsed 
 development. Believe me, this game would have benefited from a quick weapon / item exchange - unfortunately 
 the one included just aint workin'.
  
  RE5 cannot decide between action or survival genres. It is more generous than past titles with 
 ammo and other inventory items, but still not as generous as it should be. It should have more 
 item slots if it wants to be an action game, and less monsters to fight if it wants to be survival-horror. 
 It rides the fence in that regard, making an uneasy mix that can be unsatisfying.
  
  Another frustration is the slow turning of the character - especially in aim mode. one thing that 
 can get you dead in the game is when an enemy is circling around you and very close - and you are 
 trying to spin and shoot him. Unlike real life where you can spin like a whirling dervish - even 
 if you do have a pistol and a back pack - RE5 has you turning like a turtle on Tylenol PM. I can't 
 count how many times I was trying to get a bead on a circling enemy and ended up getting bopped 
 instead.
  
  Aiming the sniper riflles is risky too (and I'm upset that the Dragonuv didn't have dual-modes 
 like in STALKER) . The telescoping is rarely sufficient to get a clean head shot - and the situations 
 you are in usually lead to you getting interrupted. The only satisfying sniper moment that I had 
 was on the ship - which was very late in the game. Just about every other time it just cause alerts 
 and did not prevent anything.
  
  After a while you realize by the music that there are more enemies about - and that helps to make 
 the game predictable. Speaking of predictable, the plot is so easy to figure I could have sworn 
 I was clairvoyant. The story was as thin as cheap toilet paper. It was so obvious that this character 
 was really that character, and that you would be fighting a certain character in the end, that 
 some particular character would pop up to svae you... oh boy - what a bore.
  
  The little co-op thing - even if your not playing co-op - was something that should have been an 
 extra mode. The game ended up feeling like a "get online and play multi-player" commercial. Especially 
 the cheesy ending - you'll see. I think it should have had the one person go through the game as 
 the main game, and then let you unlock PC co-op as a reward. The PC co-op (your partner) could 
 become as much of a problem as an asset. And actually besides the plot, Sheva was just an extra 
 handbag (or Chris if you decided to play as Sheva... do you get that choice?) . I don't see anything 
 in the game that one character should have not been able to do, and I felt that the addition of 
 the extra baggage was unnecessary and mis-guided.
  
  Finally the so-called racism in the game. I didn't see the game as racist, there were just Black 
 (African) characters in it, just like there are all kinds of people of different colors and nationalities 
 around the world, Blacks so happen to be brownish in hue and so that's how they are visualised. 
 I did find it bothersome that Capcom did not go all the way to solve this perception by at least 
 making Sheva MORE identifyable as Black (not mixed-race) . Why didn't they just make her brown like 
 they made her friend - and why did they give her a slightly British accent instead of American 
 or African? I don't think they came far enough to dispel the racism charges - in fact, making her 
 the co-star and then not making her 100% Black made it look worse - as if they wanted to say they 
 refused to go so far as to place a Black character in such a role of importance even if it needed 
 to be done to save their reputation. But it's been obvious for a long time that not only Capcom 
 but many Asian studios have skewed perception of Blacks of any nationality - and adding them to 
 games has always been an after thought.
  
  In summary, it's a game to be played and traded in. The other modes are interesting for about 5 
 minutes - and who want's to continue to play once they know the game just doesn't cut it? If you 
 like RE, you should go ahead and play it - but play it quickly so you can trade it in and get the 
 maximum value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpjazzman220
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2009 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are good. They look like most games released for 360 in the past year or 
 so. The lighting is static, but that doesn't really matter too much because you won't be on the 
 map long enough to need to see a difference. The shadows are dynamic, and they look pretty good. 
 There is some good clipping and normal mapping. Some of the textures are pretty low resolution. 
 Outside of the main characters and equipment, most of the textures are low resolution. You won't 
 really notice when you're running through the map, but if you stop and try to look at a wall or 
 read a sign, you'll notice. The character models are amazing, just look at Sheeva..... or better 
 yet......... look at Topless Wesker. 8/10
  
  Sound: The sound is okay. All of the weapons sound appropriately. The voice acting is less than 
 spectacular, but you are fighting psuedo-zombies; you can't expect much but over-the-top and crazy. 
 The music is implemented well, and it helps make the game even more immersive. The only thing is 
 that the music stops when all of the enemies are dead. I would have preferred the music to be continuous 
 so that you wouldn't know when the enemies were coming or not. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: For a console action-adventure game, it's good. For a Resident Evil game, it's only okay. 
 The franchise started as survival-horror and has evolved into action-adventure. The game is not 
 scary. Some of the cut-scenes get you going, but that's about it. Some of the battles get your 
 heart pumping, but nothing is scary. For most of the game, you will run, stop and shoot, run some 
 more. That's about it. My biggest bone with this game is the gameplay. You have to stop walking 
 to shoot and aim. You're character is a highly-trained mercenary, they are known for being able 
 to run and shoot. 7/10
  
  Single-Player: Don't even try single-player. It is next to impossible; you're partner's AI is some 
 of the worst that I have ever seen. This game is created solely for Co-op. 6/10
  
  Multi-Player/Co-op: This game is built for co-op. Everything works perfectly for it, the puzzles, 
 the battles, while all possible single-player, are so much more fun and much less frustrating with 
 a human next to you. 10/10
  
  Extras: The Mercenaries is an interesting mode to play when you finish the main campaign, but you'll 
 want your own equipment, which brings me to the other extras. The extra skins for Chris and Sheeva 
 are just hillarious. Use them to add a laugh to the game. The extra weapons just help change things 
 up a bit. Try doing the main campaign with the Beretta, just try. Then do it with the Sig Sauer, 
 and you'll appreciate the new weapons. 8/10
  
  Overall: This game is one of the best games that I have ever played on 360. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 it and recommend it to almost everyone who wants a different game for the their collection and 
 to everyone who needs a Resident Evil fix. For those of you purists out there, talk to Capcom, 
 because this is not Resident Evil of old, I think those days are sadly over. 8/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  I usually don't focus on the story as heavily as other gamers, which in most cases is the ultimate 
 gamble in whether something will be fun for a few minutes or a few months. With the Resident Evil 
 franchise, story is one of the most respected and important pieces to its overall success  even 
 if it mostly deals with zombies and ghoulish villains trying to destroy the world.
  The RE franchise has seen many iterations and spin-offs, which teeter-totter between interactive 
 disasters and legendary moments in gaming. The first official title set the tone while you stumbled 
 through a creepy mansion full of reject zombies. In the second game, you choose between two characters 
 and desperately try to escape a doomed city. The third was quite similar besides the larger cast 
 and the relentless main villain. At this point, Capcom with RE and its various side ventures had 
 to choose whether or not to go stagnant with regurgitated game play, or simply start anew. In an 
 unexpected move of bravado, the veteran gaming company struck some form of gold by releasing its 
 forth addition in the RE franchise by embracing a more action-oriented game. Breaking away from 
 its roots as a survival-horror experience, many long time fans cried foul, while many others actually 
 enjoyed the new approach. With all the experience Capcom encompasses, and the rich history of RE, 
 the fifth addition to the valued "horror" franchise has cemented its place in the action genre; 
 now fans can cry together with co-op mode.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Anyone familiar with the Resident Evil series, all of the games basically play the same. You take 
 control of a lead character, in this case, Chris Redfield (who is popular from past RE games) and 
 what starts off as a simple recon mission, you quickly end up intertwined in a town ravaged by 
 some unknown infection fighting for your survival. It's pretty close to the usual formula; following 
 suit of the last RE game, the walking dead are once again replaced with mind and body altering 
 parasites known as Majini. If you don't mind these changes thus far, say hello to your new partner 
 Sheva Alomar, who tags along from start to finish hardly ever leaving your side.
  Having a combat capable partner is nice in concept, but the odds are never dramatically overwhelming, 
 which in turn negates any real genuine fear that original RE's invoked so well in past titles. 
 Battling against the various Majini (about 12 kinds in total) is never a real challenge either, 
 especially once you find a reliable method in dispatching each creature.
  
  Besides these numerous changes in approach, the core RE foundations are still intact. You still 
 maneuver through environments in a very linear fashion, which is fine when traversing tight hallways; 
 but the moment you are in open space, literally turning your body taking aim on targets resembles 
 something of a heavy robot. Even worse, when activating switches or interacting with the environment, 
 there is a minor delay in transitions that haphazardly works against you while in the heat of battle. 
 With some diligence, this flaw can be worked around, but you still need to be aware of your incompetent 
 partner's whereabouts. Having no real control in Sheva's positioning or directing her gunfire becomes 
 very tiresome, especially when she constantly finds her way in front of your gunfire. This tedious 
 task is a game all in its self. 
  
  Managing inventory is still done in block form; you can bring up the screen at anytime without 
 pausing the action and trade items on the fly. Even while playing with another human, limited inventory 
 space requires some finesse and team management. Actually fighting against the infected is broken 
 into 3 methods  gunplay (which relies on ammo) , physical attacks (done through context sensitive 
 prompts) , and blade attacks (which are best used in finding money and items) .
  Collecting goodies from fallen enemies usually consist of ammo, health, and money. With the currency 
 in RE5, you have a moment between chapters that allows for purchase of weapons, first-aid sprays, 
 weapon upgrades, and you can also sell unwanted gear for a few extra coins. The big money is mostly 
 in treasures, which are hidden through out levels and sometimes obtained from defeated mini-bosses.
 
  Unlike past RE games, the emphasis on puzzles is totally lost with the replacement of QTE's (or 
 better known as Quick Time Events) . In these scattered segments you are tasked with pressing a 
 certain button, or a combination of buttons so that you successfully avoid death. Depending on 
 the difficulty setting, you have a limited amount of time before a fatal blow occurs. If you end 
 up failing, the checkpoint system in RE5 is pretty forgiving; keeping you only steps away from 
 your last folly, repeating certain sections is rare and not as frustrating as it could have been.
 
  
  VISUALS
  In a few words, RE5 is gorgeous! Every character model from head to toe is immensely detailed with 
 dangling accessories, flowing hair, sculpted bodies, and eerily realistic facial expressions. While 
 actually playing the game, appreciating the various characters up close is difficult, simply because 
 everything is hell bent on killing you. So instead of catching glimpses of the very attractive 
 Sheva, or the muscular lead man Chris, you have plenty of wonderfully detailed environments to 
 relish in.
  The entire RE5 story takes place in a small region of Africa, where you explore various areas indoors 
 and outside. Pitch black mining tunnels, tribal villages, oil refineries, underground temples, 
 even a large freighter ship plays host to climactic showdowns. All the while maintaining very smooth 
 animations, everything from sweaty skin textures to individual blades of grass shows little to 
 no flaws, even with tons of action going down on screen. 
  If you wanted to be extremely picky, the Majini, no matter how awesome their grotesque details, 
 are constantly reused depending on what part of the region you are exploring. While in towns, you 
 duke it out with folks sporting tattered T-shirts and primitive weapons. In the tribal areas, you 
 face off against spear tossing, war paint covered, loincloth warriors. And with the later half 
 of the game, you actually match arms with Majini who wield assault rifles, rocket launchers, and 
 riot gear.
  
  Greatly differing from past RE games, these strange character variations appear way over the top 
 at first glance, but following along with the story really helps smooth out such oddities in due 
 time. One standard that remains the same is the huge boss battles. Commanding respect by taking 
 up large portions of the screen; these mutated creatures throw their weigh around showing off every 
 sharp tooth, matched with amazingly believable movements and actions. 
  
  AUDIO
  Resident Evil games are usually well known for their polished all-around audio work. With character 
 voices, nothing in the series has sounded this good before. Chris Redfield and Sheva Alomar converse 
 with great emotion during cut scenes, banter back and forth while in combat, instruct each other 
 while operating certain mechanisms, even in danger they call out for help. Other characters that 
 litter the story besides the grunting and screeching Majini are equally as strong in their performances. 
 It's hard to describe without revealing the entire cast, but rest assured the supporting voices 
 all vary nicely in tone, delivery, and sport a few tasteful accents.
  Most of the weapons in RE5 (well over 20 firearms) fill the air with believable impact, and explosions 
 found in everything from grenades (explosive, incendiary, and flash bangs) to giant fuel tankers 
 definitely put any set of speakers to work. Oddly, music in the entire game is mostly limited to 
 cut scenes and small spurts of QTE's. Clearly being an action focused game, its hard to distinguish 
 if RE5 benefits or suffers with this approach to musical tunes.
  
  EXTRAS
  Most games created by Japanese developers either serve up loads of easy achievements, or totally 
 shaft you by offering tedious and near impossible objectives. Capcom decided easier is better. 
 With RE5, the best way to approach its 50 diverse achievements is by sectioning them off into tiers.
 
  
  1ST tier  Offering well over 500 gamer points for thorough play, a majority of these goodies can 
 easily be scooped up in the first play through with or without a human partner. Rewarding you for 
 finishing chapters on any difficulty, eliminating Majini a number of times with a particular weapon, 
 killing numerous enemies with environmental objects, and saving or healing your partner numerous 
 times all rake in 15 gamer points each. 2nd tier  These tasks are better suited for replay value, 
 rounding out around 300 extra gamer points. Stabbing a certain enemy in the heart, taking out the 
 armor truck driver, inflicting a large amount of damage to a particular foe, finding all hidden 
 treasures, and upgrading all weapons nab you a decent 30 gamer points for each one. 3rd tier  
 After completing RE5 on the veteran difficulty (hard) , you unlock the professional difficulty (annoyingly 
 hard) , which offers a measly 80 gamer points.
  
  The "War Hero" achievement is the most difficult one in the entire game, simply because every hit 
 inflicted is fatal and enemies have immense health. Partnering up with another skilled human player 
 does wonders for relieving stress in this mode; although, if you can stomach a troublesome computer 
 partner, fully upgrade a few powerful weapons, and memorize every safe route in the game, playing 
 solo is still a viable option.
  Another entertaining distraction that unlocks after completion is Mercenaries mode. Replaying levels 
 from the story in a time trial fashion, you must kill as many Majini as possible without falling 
 victim to the waves of stronger and stronger adversaries. Building up combos, defeating mini-bosses, 
 and extending your time all garner points that lead to grades. The better your grade, the more 
 levels and playable characters you unlock.
  
  OVERALL
  Resident Evil has been a juggernaut franchise for over 10 years, infecting numerous forms of entertainment. 
 Fans who have been following the gaming series up until this point were expecting another top-notch 
 survival-horror experience. Instead, RE5 boldly continues to pursue the action adventure genre 
 by offering tons of QTE's, manufactured parasites, a strong emphasis on new age terrorism, and 
 a revamped partner mechanic. During this push for evolution, Capcom has left behind some great 
 original concepts; stories of mystery and intrigue, a strong focus on intricate puzzles, eerie 
 tension surrounded by solitude, and of course everyone's beloved zombies. 
  
  I may not fully agree with this new path of pure action RE seems to be favoring, but it's very 
 difficult to ignore a well made game as polished as RE5. Unfortunately, once you ingest the story 
 and master whatever extra perks you desire, the entire experience goes stagnant. Unlocking goodies, 
 finding treasures, maxing out equipment, and replaying levels with friends through co-op only carries 
 so much weigh. Something else that is painfully obvious, there is not one achievement that encourages 
 gaming with another human player, online or in split-screen. Which begs the question, why force 
 faithful RE gamers to play with a partner when they are good for nothing more than flipping switches 
 and carrying excess baggage?
  I really enjoyed what RE5 had to offer, even if the overly hyped co-op experience felt a bit forced 
  basically ruining the originality of the series. Following the story into a modern age of terrorism 
 is believable (even without legit follow-thru) , and the current cast of characters really offers 
 a nice array of personality and eye-candy. Unless you are a die hard fan of the series, and you 
 can't live without bigger and better cut scenes that rival most Hollywood productions; approaching 
 RE5 cautiously as a rental would be in your best interest, especially if you don't have many friends 
 who adore repetition as much as you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HESSLER1960
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  I don't think so! In the latest GI Mag, RE 5 received a 9.75 over a 9.25 for Dead Space. It's hard 
 to rate this one. I can't remember a game with more "boss" battles. The pros of great graphics, sound, 
 puzzles and deadly accurate weapons are so over shadowed by a lousy control set-up it's not even 
 funny. As soon as I turned the game on and saw Redfield freeze every time he aimed I was ready 
 to return it on the spot. What makes first person shooters my personal favorite is the ability 
 to multi-task when I'm firing. The whole inventory box configuration with "Equip, give, combine or 
 discard is an absolute controller smasher when your in the middle of a fire fight. My "partner" 
 was so far up my a** that every time I tried to investigate a barrel or box with my knife, she 
 would get cut by it. I can't count the number of times I screamed "MOOOOVVVVEEEEE!!!!!" at the 
 screen as I turned around and ran smack into her or had her standing directly in my line of fire. 
 Resident Evil was the first game I ever played on the X-box and I sorta missed the uneasy "Don't 
 go in there" feel of creeping around an old mansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drkill123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 12:52 am PT
Review:  This game has had a lot of negative criticism from certain reviewers that shall remain unnamed. 
 All I can say is, wow. Are they just looking for attention? Do they want to stand out among the 
 crowd? Because this game, Resident Evil 5, is by far an amazing game.
  
  I'd like to start by saying this game is not raciest. I've heard that stupid claim at least 20 
 times in its reviews. It simply advances the story on Bio-terrorism which just happens to be occurring 
 in the African region. If it was white people in America, no one would give a damn.
  
  Next, I want to say the the fact that you can not move and shoot does not make this a bad game, 
 because it isn't a bad game at all. Without the ability to move and shoot it increases the invulnerable 
 feel in the game which, in other words means, it makes it kind of scary. (Note: This game isn't 
 scary, however the gameplay is solid.)
  
  Finally, I want to praise the A. I. and Co-op in this game. Kudos to Capcom in this area! The A. I. 
 of Sheva is surprisingly helpful, with flaws but good none the less. Also the addition of Co-op 
 just enhances the fun in this game dramatically.
  
  The bottom line is, Resident Evil 5 has been harshly criticized by critiques with the motivation 
 to stand out among the group. While those who can see the true importance in video games can clearly 
 see that Resident Evil 5 is not your average survival horror game.
  
  I thank you for taking the time to read my review. I'm sorry if I've offended anyone. I tend to 
 be harsh against the reviewers who stat extremely stupid comments about games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slinky1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 12:58 am PT
Review:  One of my favorite games to date. I had been waiting for this one since it's announcement. Got 
 the game at midnight and had it finished by late morning. Too short, that is the only real big 
 problem I have with it. 
  
  Graphics- Awesome, hardly a flaw to be found. Framerate rarely get's choppy, and when it does it 
 usually has to do with a bit of lag while playing co-op. Best character design I have seen to date, 
 except maybe MGS4.
  
  Gameplay- Love it, makes you frantic when you can't just run and gun. Aiming system is easy. Mercenaries 
 is easier than the fourth for sure.
  
  Sound Design- Well as far as I can tell superb. Being that I don't play with anything other than 
 standard sound.
  
  The other little problem I have with it is the ending. Not really what I was expecting. But it 
 does leave a lot of questioning as to what they will do with the series in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auntbessie
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved resident evil, since way back in my university years on the PS1, it was the 
 first game I bought with the original console and I loved it aswell as the subsequent games. I've 
 found the story to be one that I've always wanted to follow, the whole sinister Umbrella thing 
 with shifty Wesker up to no good was captivating and always guaranteed me buying the next installment. 
 Some time after finishing RE4 on the gamecube, I was so excited to hear of the 5th game and I preordered 
 it in early 2006. 3 years is a long time to keep me waiting and I'm now not entirely sure it was 
 worth the wait. I have enjoyed RE5 thus far and it is a stunning game, but it is close to making 
 me want to smash the controller up with blind rage at the incompetent simpleton known as Sheva 
 that follows you everywhere like a fart in a space suit. She is waste of space, I know it's not 
 her fault cos the AI is just totally mullered, but to repeatedly shoot me in the back forcing me 
 to change position in the middle of a firefight is not cool. She would inevitably then just reposition 
 herself and continue plugging away at me until she run out of ammo, and then declare she was out 
 like I would ever give her some more to shoot me with. The whole computer controlled buddy thing 
 is a waste, I don't want her along for the ride, I would much prefer it if I could ditch the silly 
 cow and just have a bigger inventory because that's essentially what I was reduced to using her 
 as, just filling her slots up with ammo for me but no guns, simply because she couldn't be trusted 
 not to squander my ammo if I gave her the actual weapons aswell. I've been playing it on hard and 
 the difficulty has been punishing in some instances (especially the 2nd Uroboros one who just wouldn't 
 die) but not so much for the actual difficulty itself, but more because you're suffocated by dodgy 
 camera angles and some lousy controls. I don't dislike entirely the new scheme, I always liked 
 the original controls but I got used to the new way of playing in RE4 and accepted it as the way 
 the game was heading, but I now feel with the latest version that it's kind of caught in between 
 which just doesn't work. They either need to go the whole way like Gears or Dead Space and give 
 you a lot more freedom with the controls, or just revert back to the old way of playing. The cover 
 system is not great in RE5, the bad guys are far too responsive for the player to have to fumble 
 about trying to aim while they shoot at you with pin point accuracy with their bloodshot eyes and 
 crazy talk. I'm not too far from the end now and I'm really intrigued to see what happens, the 
 fact is I'll always buy future RE games cos they're slightly special in my mind, but I just hope 
 they get their act together. Can't help but feel a little disappointed with Resident Evil 5, maybe 
 I was expecting too much, I don't think 7.0 is a bad score though, it just should have been better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  In few words and to the point...
  ----------------------
  THE GOOD
  -Great graphics for the console standards
  -Cinematic story with some good twists
  -Excellent 
 all around sounds and speeches
  -Co-op availability
  -Good replayabilty and above average life value
  -The Xbox360 is a bit more stable from the PS3 
 version
  -----------------------------------------------------
  THE BAD
  -The new enemies do not feel so scary as the classical zombies from the first generation of RE 
 titles.
  -Some annoying little problems with Co-op. 
  -Controls are a bit annoying until you get used to them
  ----------------------
  CONCLUSION
 
  An excellent console title and one of the best games for this year in my opinion. It is a very 
 well made product and it is a better game from the not so good Resident Evil 4. Another surprise 
 is that the Xbox360 version is a bit more polished from the PS3 version in my opinion.
  
  FINAL SCORE = 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickphan2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I don't get why people rate games a 1.0 just because they haven't changed a whole bunch. To sum 
 it all up though, RE5 is a great game! Boring offline? I think not but online it's much more fun 
 since you get to play with someone else. There aren't a lot of new features but Resident Evil 5 
 is still a very fun game. The campaign is very short (took me 10 hrs to beat it on veteran) but 
 I'm glad that Capcom added the Professional mode which is ridiculously hard (like call of duty 4 
 veteran lolol) . There is a lot of replay value in this. Getting emblems, unlocking things, mercenaries, 
 and just to blow off some heads. I'd suggest that If you aren't a fan of the Resident Evil series, 
 don't pick this up but if you are go! Do not listen to all those R-tards who rated this a 1.0 because 
 obviously, this game is not a 1.0 and believe it or not, gamespot is right! It deserves a 8.5 or 
 maybe a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mOBSCENE_G
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Let's just make one thing clear; Resident Evil 4 was one of the best games of the last generation. 
 Not only did it revitalize the franchise's dated mechanics, but it also made for some of the most 
 compelling action sequences ever to grace the survival horror genre. Now, years later, Resident 
 Evil 5 has arrived and though it may be an improvement over it's predecessor, it isn't the genre 
 altering game that RE4 once was. This is largely in part due to the inability to move while shooting. 
 In RE4 the mechanic worked to make tension and held up well in the combat sequences. It still works 
 well here, however with games like Dead Space already proving that you successfully move around 
 and still maintain the scare factor, the mechanic no longer feels as fresh as it once did. 
  
  The good news is that the rest of the game still does. Your enemies are as cunning as ever 
 and the boss fights are still a blast. Compiled with the new co-op style gameplay, RE5 proves itself 
 to be quite the show stopper when it comes to it's large scale battles and constant rush of adrenaline. 
 This is most apparent in the earlier levels, where the environments are most creative, if somewhat 
 linear. As Chris Redfield you'll fight through hordes of Majini (This iterations zombie) in the 
 African marsh lands and tribal villages. As usual with the franchise the story can sometimes tread 
 into corny blabbering and some more bizarre moments may ruin the mood from time to time (when Wesker 
 shows up in a matrix style trench coat and the zombies start wielding machine guns, you'll know 
 what I mean) . And while the convoluted story may leave some series new comers in the dust, the 
 game more than makes up for it with it's excellent presentation and craftsmanship. If you're into 
 horror shoot em' ups or are just looking for a good co-op game then you owe it to yourself to check 
 RE5 out. Chances are you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vesivilo
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 3, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  I was hopping a great game, with lots of unblockeable contents, buts surprise, was just another 
 run and shot RS game.
  I m sure the graphics are so great, but the multiplayer is the unique diferent thing in this tittle.
 
  
  1- The game resume in one word, RS4, the same of ever, for a 360 version of the game, the only 
 thing surely true is buy it if you have xbox live acces, is the only thing good.
  2- the multiplayer offline splitscreen is fine, but the one player campaign is toooooo booring, 
 just worrying about your partner; the AI of the partner is more like a "help me please" partner, 
 you waste lots of health just in your partner.
  3- the length of this tittle is disapointhing too, i play just for 7 hours (with much search) , 
 and i ve in my closset now.
  
  4- resume. if you are fan of RS4, sure like this, but if you want something different into a tittle 
 of new generation gaming; please make you a favor, do not waste 40 in this, better go and buy a 
 GT4 or GOW2 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyboy898
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2009 12:33 am PT
Review:  You play as Chris Redfield along with your newly assigned partner, Sheva Alomar, and have to locate 
 the source of the Las Plagas-like infection.
  The campaign has it's, ups and downs, (mostly ups) , but it is an overall great experience.
  A 
 down that I noticed a lot was that you'll fight some Majini, (the African equivalent of the Spanish 
 Ganados, which starred in RE4) , then you'll have quiet time to run around and explore, then you'll 
 fight a whole horde of Majinis, then a boss fight, and then quiet time again.
  The story is very well developed, as there are plot twists and whatnot.
  The game appeals to 
 the crowd that are fairly new to Resident Evil, and of course die-hard fans.
  There are plenty of achievements to get, some easy to get, some excruciatingly hard, and then all 
 the in-between ones. Some you'll get randomly without even realising that it was an achievement, 
 and some you'll spend hours trying to get. 
  The graphics are STUNNING. Absolutely amazing. Everything looks so realistic, whether it be a group 
 of plants and bushes to a blood-soaked Executioner Majini. 
  The design of the game is also very, very good, as everything is believable and not too far-fetched. 
 Capcom has designed the enemies, well, everything to the highest degree. The most common zombies 
 look like average people living in Africa, like they did in RE4, as they don't look like your stereotypical, 
 shuffling, ragged clothes kind of zombie.
  Sound is excellent, as they have orchestrated soundtracks that get your heart pumping when Majinis 
 surround you, and raise your suspicion when..... (spoilers) , well, you get the idea.
  Voice acting is IMO excellent. 
  There are plenty of great things to unlock such as infinite 
 ammo for weapons, alternate costumes, and even the ability to play as Sheva during campaign!
  Mercenaries mode is excellent, it's like a better version of RE4's one. You can also get different 
 characters to play as, as well as different levels.
  The Xbox Live experience must be had. Playing co-op in campaign with another human player is the 
 best, as whatever treasures and BSAA emblems they shoot, you get too. Mercenaries is also playable 
 online co-op, and that is very fun too.
  Overall, you must AT LEAST rent this game, or better yet, buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRiffAlot
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The Umbrella corporation has finally been abolished and former S. T. A. R. S member Chris Redfield 
 sets out to Africa where a notorious weapons dealer will be making a trade in the mysterious village 
 of Kijuju. When he arrives, he is greeted by his new partner Sheva Alomar, and a tip on the curious 
 doomsday project, Uroboros. Together, the two of them will fight through a number of different 
 areas in hopes of finding a way to stop mad man, Albert Wesker from deploying the Uroboros virus.
 
  
  Right from the get-go you'll notice that Resident Evil 5 feels like it's 2005 predecessor but as 
 you progress you'll notice slight differences that really sets the gameplay apart. As I mentioned 
 earlier, you now have a partner to assist you in killing the hordes of Majini that you'll face 
 in the game, along with that partner comes new features. Every now and again you have the option 
 to save or get saved by your partner, help your partner up high ledges, or simply say thanks for 
 the first-aid spray. 
  
  There are times when your AI controlled partner really shines, like when you are on the brink of 
 death, Sheva will come to your aid with an herb, she'll cover you while you are reloading, and 
 she'll also grab gold and treasures that you may have missed, other times not so much. The AI will 
 sometimes hog ammo for weapons that she doesn't even own, waste ammo unnecessarily, and walk into 
 traps that a blind man could see, but overall the AI is much better than some others I've encountered.
 
  
  A wide variety of enemies will keep you on your toes, from bottle wielding Majini to giant spider 
 creatures that eject projectiles from their anus. Enemies have several routes to choose from when 
 attacking, so if you aren't observant of your surroundings, you might find yourself feasting on 
 a chainsaw sandwich. The boss encounters in the game weren't over-the-top difficult but I did have 
 trouble with a few. 
  
  The weapons were made for how you like to play. If you enjoy being tactical, consider a rifle, 
 if running right into the action is more your style, a shotgun is your best friend. There's a great 
 variety of different weapon classes to choose from, all of which have at least three or more types 
 to use at your disposal.
  
  With a great assortment of weapons and enemies, a first-rate AI, amazing gameplay mechanics, and 
 a story that ties up loose ends from earlier games but leaves space for a few more games, RE5 is 
 a must have for long time fans of the series and complete newcomers alike. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StRiKel2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying I personally love this game. I've spent hours on end doing everything I possibly 
 could, yet still I find myself slaying parasites in my spare time. Why you ask? Co-operative play. 
 Simple as that.
  
  Now what it gains in co-operative fun, it loses in the fear factor. Now don't let that get you 
 down, although it isn't scary that doesn't mean it isn't intense. There will be many heart-pounding/button 
 mashing moments in which you'll be fighting off malicious/murdering majini monstrosities, trust 
 me. A dis-advantage of co-op is item management. You basically get 9 slots to carry whatever it 
 is you wish (Compared to the usual 18 [AI Sheva's inventory] ) ... Yet you gain a human companion, 
 which can be a good or bad thing depending on who you play with. IMO a noob   AI. (As long as the 
 noob has a mic and can listen, heh)
  
  Now to touch on the not-so-obvious differences between RE4 and RE5.
  - Fully upgraded weapons 
 no longer give an exclusive upgrade
  - Controls updated (Strafe included)
  - Fewer mercenaries characters (only 4 this time around, but with alternative costumes)
  - Much 
 shorter (So the game can be enjoyed more co-op wise)
  - More weapon variety (4 handguns 3 magnums 4 machine guns 4 shotguns 3 Rifles 1 grenade launcher 
 1 rocket launcher)
  - More melee (Partner combo's possible)
  - More mercenaries stages (10 stages compared to RE4's 4 stages)
  - Less escorting (Sheva   stupid 
 Ashley)
  - Updated professional mode (Much more difficult this time around. 4's pro mode was a joke IMO)
 
  - Treasure updated (No more combined treasures)
  - A chapter select mode (For those things you missed)
  - Library mode (For reviewing all of RE's 
 history or just 5's)
  - Can't buy ammo (Ammo can be traded in co-op)
  - Infinite ammo can be unlocked on all weapons
  
  Now many people complain that you can't move 
 and shoot/reload. Sure it can be frustrating at first when you're shooting at enemies and get hit/grabbed 
 from behind because you can't stay in constant motion. Bypassing this problem is simple, change 
 your play style. Don't stand in the same spot forever and try to kill everything. Learn the melee 
 stun animations (Head shots, knee shots, arm shots) and abuse them regularly. Usually what I'd 
 find myself doing while playing with ammo on is Aim  Shoot a few shots  Run up and melee  rinse, 
 wash, and repeat. 
  
  Well I have to cut this review short since I'm at work and I really shouldn't be writing a review 
 right now. Hope the little information I provided helps a few people. Peace
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Charles3646
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I was sceptic at first and I didn't tought co-op would serve RE as good as it did for other original 
 (new) games. And finally the demo came out and I tried it (co-op first) , it was instant hook. The 
 game as sharp and realistic graphic, and it does implement a lot of new stuffs over the RE storyline, 
 wich helps keeping you wanting more, till the end wich is close enough to let you see it in about 
 10 to 12 hours depending on the difficulty level you selected. But you'll also have to look for 
 BSAA badges and upgrade your weapons to the max to really complete it. The gameplay is solid enough 
 to make you want to experience it multiple times and try different difficulty. This game is worth 
 the money spent and (if you have interest in this genre) will give you a real good time. This is 
 one of the new generation masterpieces and the co-op experience is solid fun to play with friends. 
 Get the demo, rent it, buy it, but play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanabriacr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. vGood. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. 
 Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venomkringe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  
  When you first step into this sequel to the Resident Evil series the visuals will blow you away. 
 The stroy is extremely short, I passed it in about 6 hours with help from a friend. The enemies 
 you will find don't really have a difference besidesthe fact of the regular majini and the ndipaya 
 tribe. The types of parasites are a giant like tentacle that sprouts from heads, a ball type enemy 
 which devours you when your near and a flying bat like thing. The bosses are imense and will have 
 you wondering what to do to defeat them. Unfortunatly there is hardly any puzzle solving in the 
 game thus making your time in Kijuju be an easy one.
  
  
  The game fully operates on co-op because when sheva dies you do to. You always have to keep you 
 and your partner in check. Saving your partner when HELP is displayed and saving them from near 
 death when DYING is displayed. So the game fully operates on CO-OP
  
  
  The bonus mode in RE5 is Mercenaries. You and a partner (or you by yourself if you choose to go 
 it alone) Have to try and kill as many Majinji as you can before the time runs out. Plus There 
 will be two new modes soon such as Survival mode which pits you against other players in a deathmatch 
 type mode, and Slayer which has you trying to kill more enemies than the three other players.
 
  
  
  This game is worth buying especially for the cool bonus modes so you'll keep playing even after 
 you complete the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howie1926
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  RE5 takes everything that you loved from RE4 and intensified it. Let's face it folks, the series 
 is better without zombies. Once again, the over the shoulder aiming is implemented to perfection 
 as well as the new and improved inventory system that is a HUGE improvement. Capcom has given you 
 the ability to map anything from your inventory on to the D-Pad making switching between weapons 
 on the fly flawless. Playing co-op is the way to go with this title but If you are playing by yourself, 
 don't fret. The AI controlled character of Sheva is actually intelligent and can take care of her 
 self so as not to slow down the game play. The only thing that bugged me was the inability to be 
 able to swap weapons with a friend when they were playing as Sheva. Other than that, on-line, offline, 
 or hanging out with a friend at your house, this is one game that will not leave your system for 
 a long, long, time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverkhalsa1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Im gona make this short ....... lol
  
  This game was great ! 
  Good amount of levels, i thought it would be repetitive, but wasnt ! Lots to do, all bosses are 
 unique and different, great fun online and playing 2 player mode ! Lots to do even after completing 
 the story mode of the game ! Ive played this game from start to finish 5 times ! Highly addictive, 
 a must buy !!!!!!!! 
  
  If i was forced to point out any negatives about this game, all i could say is the story line was 
 a bit weaker then past games, and didnt suck me in as much ! But still better than a lot of other 
 games out there !
  
  MUSIC : 8
  STORY : 7
  CHARACTERS : 9
  GRAPHICS : 9
  GAME PLAY : 9
  OVERALL : 9
  
  p. s ....... For achivement whores - achievments can be won 
 quite easily. It was the first game i got the full 1000 achievment points for on the xbox 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokra213
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I first bought this game under the impression, "Oh here we go, another Left 4 Dead." I was wrong, 
 I really enjoyed the game and anyone else that likes shooting games and a bit of strategy thrown 
 in would like this game. As you go through each level you can see a story coming about right in 
 front of you. The graphics are just impressive and everything runs smoothly. The AI is a bit of 
 a pain but not too much and she does actually do something so it's not annoying. A few things here 
 and there might get repetitive like a certain fight that involves ripping something off someone... just 
 so I don't give it all away.. lol. Anyways this is really a great game, it's more fun if you play 
 with someone else the first time but if your a loner go for it. It will take a while to get used 
 to the controls also because it's basically second person view. The bonus items are really great, 
 like the infinite weapons and all that. But really overall if you want a fun shooting, strategy, 
 story, decent AI game then go for this one. Don't believe X-Play either about some racial stereotype 
 thing, because there really is no racist parts in it. When you are playing you kill: African Tribesmen, 
 Psycho Africans, Indian looking people, and white people. So to say you only kill black people 
 or it's racist is bull. Don't believe what others are saying, and for God's sake you are in Africa! 
 But really enjoy the game don't believe what people are saying about racism, it's a fun game so 
 enjoy it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick31189
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 not the best Resident Evil game but a good Action game nevertheless because it 
 looks that tense element that the other Resident Evil games had. Although to me the Resident Evil 
 games haven't been scary since the first one came out on the original play station. They were still 
 tense, even Re 4 had some tense parts. Re 5 is like that at all it is a lot more action-driven 
 than the other games. And there is a lot of the backtracking that you had in the other Re's. Re 
 5 is the first RE to ever have coop. The coop take away a lot of that tension that the other games 
 had., but this also adds replay value to the game because now you can play the game with someone 
 else. However the game is built around this ability, meaning your partner AI is very lacking to 
 say the least. Sheva Alomar would run at of ammo very quickly, and even if he had a more powerful 
 gun with a ton of ammo she would stick to using her hand gun ammo. Also she would use green herbs 
 even when using one wasn't really needed. Graphically the game stands out among the crowd. Its 
 far more impressive than Gears of War 2, but not nearly as impressive as killzone 2 but defintally 
 up there as one of the best looking multiplatform games. And let me tell it looks the same on both 
 the PS3 and Xbox 360 which usually isn't the case for mutli-platform games. The sound effects and 
 voice overs are very well-done. The game really is a huge step up in the production values compared 
 to the other Re's , because most of the other Re's had terrible voice acting. This game had some 
 high quality voice for a RE game. The story -line is very well-written and actually continues the 
 plot unlike RE 4. the story is very well-written. Chris is deployed to Kijuju, Africa, to partner 
 up with Sheva Alomar and apprehend Ricardo Irving, who is attempting to sell viruses on the black 
 market. Along the way, the two see someone get fed a strange object which turns him into a majini. 
 While attempting to locate Irving, Chris and Sheva find Alpha team dead, except one mortally wounded 
 man who gives them hard drive data. The monster that took out Alpha team is defeated shortly after, 
 while Irving drives away with a hooded figure. As they progress, they are attacked. Delta team 
 arrive just in time to kill the attackers. Among Delta Team is Josh Stone. He gives Chris data 
 from the hard drive, and Chris sees a picture of Jill. After finding Irving, the hooded figure 
 arrives just in time to aid his escape, leaving behind pictures of a marshlands oil field which 
 is Irving's presumed destination. Chris and Sheva attempt to regroup with Delta team, only to find 
 out that Josh is the sole survivor. Chris and Sheva find Irving on a boat, but Irving escapes again 
 and the oil field is blown up while the two escape with Josh on a speedboat. During the escape, 
 Irving's boat was reacquired, with Chris and Sheva boarding to find and kill a mutated Irving. 
 As Irving dies, he tells them to go to a cave nearby for answers. Josh leaves the pair to report 
 to HQ. The cavern leads Chris and Sheva to an underground Umbrella base, currently operated by 
 Tricell. They progress through a laboratory and find a massive chamber with thousands of capsules 
 with bodies in them. The capsules are shown in Jill's photo, so Chris searches the computer database. 
 The elevator takes them to Jill's capsule, while they defeat another monster. The capsule opens, 
 but it is empty. Excella appears on the computer screen and warns them to leave. Later the two 
 intercept a radio transmission of Excella talking to Wesker. Excella unleashes a monster infected 
 by Uroboros. After defeating the monster, the two find Excella and the hooded figure. Wesker reveals 
 himself and he unmasks the hooded figure, who turned out to be Jill Valentine, who is hostile and 
 fights alongside him. Wesker escapes and they are left with Jill. They spot the device on Jill's 
 chest which they pull off. Jill returns to normal and tells them to pursue Wesker. Another good 
 thing about the game are the epic boss battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinb
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Much better than the demo and fairly close to RE 4 in style. Few minor issues keep it from being 
 amazing like $ for mutiplayer DLC. I loved RE4, one of the best games ever IMO. At first, demo 
 felt like it went on too much of a wrong track, but the full game is actually great. If the multiplayer 
 was free, this game would have definitely gotten a 9.0 on GAMESPOT. As far as standing to shoot 
 is concerned I like it. It makes this game different from so many clones out there. Plus this makes 
 you actually strategize as to where you want to position yourself before you shoot since you can 
 easily get swarmed by enemies coming from your back.  
 SHORT, GIVE IT A SHOT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linksit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I liked the game it was fun and the co-op was cool. The A. I was abit annoying
  but I delt with it . I payed 113 dollars for the box set and I think it was worth it.
  But with 
 that being said I still wished I had rented it first just because it was too short and I feel that 
 it could have been longer. The cut scenes were really good and I loved the story. The upgrade able 
 wepons were cool and I like the in game inventory. On the hardest seting it was a bit easy for 
 the seting but it was still hard enuff to be challenging and fun. The last word I have for you 
 all is
  RENT THIS GAME UNLESS YOUR A BIG FAN. Because if you buy it like I did then you will be piss and 
 how short the game is and how the A. I messes you up (like takeing you ammo) to the point that you 
 want to turn the game off
  If thats ok with you the please wast your money and buy this game I wasted mine. This game is no 
 call of duty or dead space so nuff said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is tricky to review. If you are a huge Resident Evil fan then you may walk away disappointed, 
 part of me did. If you are new to the series you might think the controls are awkward and outdated. 
 You also might say; I thought these games were scary and vets might say that Wesker is starting 
 to become like Jason or Freddy and just refuses to die. Resident Evil vets also might think Capcom 
 is a sell out for turning this series into an arcadey action thrill ride and for not seemingly 
 wanting to evolve the story whatsoever. Players will more than likely make fun of the baby puzzles 
 that are in this game. I mean come on Capcom used to make you think a little. Gamers might scoff 
 at the fact that Resident Evil 4 was two to three times longer than this game. I mean 8 to 10 hours 
 your first time through. That is pretty bad for a $60 game. You know what, all of these complaints 
 are completely valid and could have destroyed the Resident Evil name. But you what Capcom did... 
 they gave gamers the most fun to play Resident Evil yet.
  
  First off players need to realize that this game is built for cooperative play from the ground 
 up. This is not an option they through in, it is the way the game is intended to be played. Your 
 AI partner though is fairly resourceful and you won't scream at her very often. I suggest if you 
 are playing alone to start on the easiest difficulty. This will inable you build up your weapons 
 so you can tackle the harder fdifficulty settings. But if you do have a friend that plays this 
 game you will be in luck because that is when this game is at its best. Working together to take 
 down the uro boros infected Majini's is a hell of alot of fun. This game also has the best replay 
 value of any in the series. When you finish this game you will more than likely just keep playing 
 it to upgrade your weapons so you can buy infinte ammo. Then you will want to play the harder difficulty 
 levels. You will also want to go back and get S's and find the emblems you may have missed. All 
 of this unlocks further content. You also will want to play the mercenary mode (also coop) to see 
 how many infected you can kill and where you rank on the leaderboards. There is also plenty of 
 stat tracking. This game keeps track of how many enemies (broken down individually) you have killed, 
 what guns you are killing with, your accuracy, what enemies have sent you to your death, etc. Also 
 a cool feature is that all of your gold, weapons, items, etc are carried over with you whatever 
 stage you want to play. So if you wanted to you could replay the first level and build up you weapons 
 and item count before moving on. The only drawback is the game is the easiet Resident Evil yet. 
 Although I have only finished it on Amatuer and Normal difficulty. 
  
  The graphics are on par with the 360's best although everything is far to bright. The cutscences 
 are well done and well voice acted for the most part. There are plenty of different weapons and 
 enough enemy variety that you won't complain too much. There is action throughout, you will never 
 become bored. The cooperative elements are used quite well and make you feel like you are really 
 working together to stop Wesker. 
  
  Overall the game has its faults and doesn't live up to its predecessor of RE4 (I really wish they 
 had a coop version of that game know) but Resident Evil 5 is a blast to play. Where it is coop 
 you will more than likely play it over and over. Resident Evil vets need to go in with the understandng 
 that this game is different than all the rest. If you do this then most gamers will have a great 
 time with RE5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2009 12:51 pm PT
Review:  *** RESIDENT EVIL 5 ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Excellent story that ties up many loose ends
  -Multiplayer is a lot of fun
  -Wide variety of weapons and upgrades
  -Active menu makes fighting 
 even more intense
  -Mercenaries mini game is still fun and now offers co-op
  -Superb graphics
  -Great audio
  
  THE BAD
  -Controls are sluggish, limited and down right 
 awkward
  -Close camera hinders peripheral vision
  
  OVERVIEW
  Resident Evil 5 (RE5) takes place shortly after the incident in Resident Evil 4, with the Los Illuminados 
 cult, in an African desert area in Kijuju. Chris Redfield returns as the main character and is 
 heading up an investigation about a possible viral terrorist threat with Umbrella's weapons. Chris 
 has put on some muscle since we last saw him and is now a member of the Bioterrorism Security Assessment 
 Alliance (BSAA) . When Chris reaches his destination, he meets up with the beautiful Sheva Alomar 
 (a local BSAA agent) and the two become partners for the entire journey. When Chris first meets 
 Sheva he has a flashback of his former partner Jill Valentine. You see, Chris and Jill were attempting 
 to arrest Ozwell Spencer (the founder of Umbrella) when they meet up with long time rival Albert 
 Wesker. Wesker had already killed Spencer and attempted to kill Chris until Jill tackled Wesker 
 and the two fell out of a high window in Spencer's mansion. The two bodies were never found and 
 they were both pronounced dead. So, when Sheva calls Chris her partner, he feels a little uneasy 
 about the situation.
  
  Anyways, after a short greeting the two proceed to meet their informant who tells them more about 
 the guy they are trying to apprehend. A man by the name of Ricardo Irving is attempting to sell 
 viruses to local terrorists in the area. After the informant leaves, Chris and Sheva encounter 
 two natives stuffing an organism, which later is found out to be Umbrella's Uroboros virus, into 
 another native which turns him crazed and hostile. After the two dispatch the hostile man, Chris 
 tells Sheva about the findings from Leon Kennedy's report and the similarities with what they just 
 saw. Shortly after, Chris and Sheva find themselves fighting for their lives and that their BSAA 
 backup has all been wiped out. Chris's dutiful nature takes over and he vows to put an end to this 
 viral threat and Sheva won't let him go through it alone. They will fight fear together or die 
 trying.
  
  In Resident Evil 5 you'll encounter some familiar faces, from the series, along with a brand new 
 majini race. The character development is top-notch and our two heroes have great chemistry together. 
 The story is just as good as the rest of the games in the series and you'll find that RE5 resolves 
 many cliff hangers left by the other games. The gameplay has some setbacks but the story, characters, 
 and cut scenes are very entertaining; especially for long time fans of the Resident Evil series.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Resident Evil 5's story is exciting but now let's dive into the actual gameplay. A new and exciting 
 feature to the Resident Evil series is ability to play co-op online and split screen. Together 
 you and a friend can play as either Chris or Sheva and traverse through this terrifying African 
 settlement. There are some parts where the game will require you to split up but most of the time 
 you'll be fighting side by side. Teamwork is key in Resident Evil 5 because the amount of enemies 
 has almost tripled since the last game and they move a lot quicker. You'll be able to swap ammo, 
 explosives and restorative items but weapons are restricted. Also, if a player takes a near fatal 
 blow, your partner will have the chance to restore them back to health.
  
  Now if you don't have anyone to play with, the A. I. will fill in the vacant spot. But don't worry 
 because the computer actually serves as a formative teammate. Your computer ally can be toggled 
 to "cover" or "attack" mode. In cover mode the A. I. will stay close to you, take decisive shots 
 to conserve ammo and recognize when you need an herb or first aid spray. In attack mode you partner 
 will start to tear stuff up. They'll still come to your aid but they'll wonder around a bit more, 
 pickup items and take out enemies but do it in a non-reckless fashion. I was actually surprised 
 on how intelligent the computer player was and how adaptable it was in a multitude of situations. 
 I mean don't get me wrong the A. I. has some hiccups now and then but it almost felt like playing 
 with another human player.
  
  With enemies moving faster and attacking in groups from all directions, you'll definitely notice 
 that the combat can be frightfully exciting. There are many times when you're heart with start 
 to beat faster; especially when a chainsaw majini is right behind you. Well, to add to the already 
 panicked struggle, Resident Evil 5 decided to throw in an active menu system. This great new feature 
 won't let you pause the game to search in your inventory anymore. Instead, while you're looking 
 in your weapon's cache, enemies will still be coming at you. Now don't worry because you are able 
 to preset up to four different items to be quick selected using the d-pad.
  
  Unfortunately, not everything in Resident Evil 5 is enjoyable. There are a few setbacks in this 
 game and the control scheme is a major one. The controls are pretty much the same as RE4 with some 
 slight differences. One of my biggest pet-peeves about this game is the fact that you can't run 
 and shoot at the same time. Now this wasn't as big of a problem in RE4 mainly because the enemies 
 moved a lot slower but now it feels like you are at a huge disadvantage here. Also, since there 
 has been a huge growth in shooters, in the gaming industry, the inability to shoot and run at the 
 same time just seems outdated. Now the action commands make a return which is nice because you'll 
 be able to interact with the environment like knock over ladders and stuff, but all in all the 
 controls are just plain awkward.
  
  Another gripe I have with RE5 is the camera being way to close to your character's shoulder; especially 
 when your gun is drawn. This greatly reduces your peripheral vision so while you're shooting three 
 majini in front of you, you'll never know that there are two more trying to bite off your elbow.
 
  
  Now the main story is a little on the short side (around 10 hours) but there are a few other fun 
 things to make you stay and play more. First, the wide selection of weapons and possible upgrades 
 for each is awesome. This alone will make you want to play through the story mode again on a higher 
 difficultly. Since the items in your inventory travel with you from game to game, you'll be able 
 to keep your upgrades, which is a nice feature. Also, you'll be able to unlock infinite ammo for 
 each weapon to give you a little advantage for the toughest difficulty. The other fun extra is 
 the return of the Mercenaries mini game. Co-op with another human is available which is good because 
 this mini game is extremely frantic. In Mercenaries the object is to kill as many enemies as you 
 can in the time allotted. There are time increase items scatter throughout each of the maps and 
 a bonus for combo kills. There are plenty of maps and characters to choose from so it'll be easy 
 to spend a decent amount of time here.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are exceptional. The clarity in the environments and characters really stand out in 
 this game and truly make it look like a rural African town. Another neat effect that RE5 offers 
 is the "eye adjustment" feature. This means that if you're outside in the sun and then run indoors 
 it will take a few seconds for your eyes to adjust and vise versa.
  
  SOUND
  The musical score compliments the gameplay to a tee. The boss music, especially, creates the right 
 amount of urgency and excitement. The voice acting fits each character nicely and the dialog isn't 
 boring at all. The sound effects are another great part about Resident Evil 5. The huge blasting 
 sounds from the shotgun to the yells from the majini enhance the gameplay greatly.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Resident Evil 5 is an exciting game with a great story. Sadly, the outdated controls 
 will keep some from enjoying this one. Hopefully, Capcom will incorporate a run and gun feel for 
 the next Resident Evil because it is much overdue. For those who have enjoyed the other Resident 
 Evil games, in the series, you'll most likely enjoy RE5. I would recommend this game to long time 
 fans of the series and those who enjoy action games but can put up with frustrating controls. Chris 
 and Sheva will fight fear together but the question remains, is it all worth fighting for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wogboypaul
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:10 am PT
Review:  Congratulations CAPCOM. You've aced everything there should be in an action game. What else can 
 I say but give disadvantages. Yes this game is worth buying on next generation and PC consoles. 
 
  
  Now back to the review.
  
  Firstly, the gameplay is just amazing, it is an over-the-shoulder first person shooter with action. 
 Although this is meant to be a survival-horror it is not scarey (which IMO is actually good for 
 me) . This game is all fast paced which completely drags you in.
  
  Secondly, the story is simply 'divine' IMO. The twists have turned and throughout the game you 
 will discover all sorts of truths which will reveal why this story is spectacular. The initial 
 mystery of the story is at the very beginning of the game where the introductory FMV is shown *i 
 will not spoil anything for the players*.
  
  Thirdly, it is mad to see that Sheva's AI is much smarter than anticipated, although she does lack 
 some quliatites past half way of the game. It is like she was specifically structured for the beginning 
 of the game. Although she still does supportive tactics when she is on Cover mode. By changing 
 her tactic to Attack (which may be useful for bosses) she will automatically equip the most advanced 
 weapons and make her primary objective to eliminate.
  
  'Teamwork is the key' would be the quote to use for helping each other while being attacked. When 
 she is in a bit of a struggle walk up to her and press B button and he will kock, kick, slash, 
 punch the monster away from Sheva. Sheva will do the same, her top priority as cover will ensure 
 that she will protect you from such events. Having a multiplayer mode is probably the best thing 
 CAPCOM has ever made for their Resident Evil series. The multiplayer is actually quite fun, and 
 you will feel lonley having a partner filled with only AI, compared to a human player.
  
  The soundtrack may have been scarey if the gameplay had been scarey, but all aside. This soundtrack 
 gives you an "OOMPH" while killing all sorts of monsters in Africa. And some tracks will give you 
 a more suspense feel in the certain situation you are in. And as usual the music will stop once 
 there are no remaining enemies in the area.
  
  Graphics are completely amazing there is absolutley nothing to complain about graphics on a next 
 generation console otherwise it would be too picky. Although some colour textures are very visible 
 at times, and will be obvious but this will not ruin the aspect of the game. 
  
  I have just (in fact) finished this game today, and their use of special features and unlockable 
 items just continue to inspire and encourage the player to continue to New Game +.
  
  In conclusion, this is my first XBOX 360 game, although my best up to date, and this opinion will 
 not be changed until another spectacular story is to be introduced to Resident Evil. 
  
  Thank you very much for reading my review. 
  Please rate this helpful or not helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotchicken324
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Recently, I've been playing some gay game where you walk around shooting "zombies" and stuff, where 
 you apparently can play with your friends in a new co-op mode that's been added to the series. 
 Yes there's a series and it's gay because everything is gay But seriously, Resident Evil 5 is no 
 disappointment to the name "Resident Evil." The dark and gritty settings and the disturbing situations 
 makes its way to both the Xbox 360 and the PlayStaiton 3. Offering a "totally original" storyline 
 (for all of you **** out there) and even online co-op so you can even play with your friends around 
 the country, because we all have plenty of friends who just can't wait to play Resident Evil. Since 
 I suck at introductions of anything, I'll just get to my thoughts of the game. Like any Resident 
 Evil game, you don't start where the last game left off. For those who are disappointed not to 
 play as Leon S. Kennedy, then I'm sorry to inform you, you don't at all. With that said, you play 
 as a man named Chris Redfield. You mean the same Chris Redfield from the first game and Code: Veronica? 
 Yes, the very same. So anyway you- Since Chris seems to be in all the odd games in the series, 
 does that mean Leon will be in the sixth installment? I seriously don't know so stop asking me 
 things like that. Anyway, like I was saying, you play as Chris Redfield (from the first and third 
 game yada yada yada) who is shipped to Kijuju, which is in Africa, to investigate and stop the 
 crimes/strategies of Ricardo Irving who is trying to sell viruses on the black market, because 
 you can sell pretty much anything on the black market these days. Since Chris can't do this on 
 his own, he his teamed up with Sheva Alomar, a BSAA agent accustomed to the African settings, and 
 help him in his conquest to defeat the final boss- I mean Ricardo. The gameplay and the actual 
 feeling of playing this game are actually quite enjoyable. The controls (which are pretty much 
 the same as Resident Evil 4's) really fit with the style of playing it and actually are very nice 
 to have. Holding down the L trigger to aim your weapon, and firing with the R trigger to shoot 
 the enemy; y'know basic controls and such, although, the aiming with the gun could've been way 
 better. Some of the aiming felt extremely slow in hesitating situations, especially when the infected 
 gang up on you. As usual, you are given a red-dot sight so you can aim your guns, butthere are 
 parts in the game almost feel impossible to use a red-dot sight, because the little point of it 
 is very small and sometimes can "disappear" (as in you can loose eye-contact with it due to having 
 a bad sight or there is too much **** on the screen) when in combat, and will usually waste all 
 of your ammo that you really need in this game. Your ammo will run out extremely fast in this game, 
 but luckily, there's at least a pack of handgun ammo lying around everywhere: in barrels, in drawers, 
 hell, even some are hiding in your enemies. Another thing that bothers me about the controls has 
 to be the awkward movements Chris/Sheva have. I'm really not quite sure whether this is suppose 
 to have a third-person shooter feel to it, or is it just another adventure kind of style of movement. 
 Either way, it would've been nice to clean that up a little bit, especially when you're really 
 close to the "zombies." More aspects of the gameplay (that I didn't cover but I should've) are 
 actually very nice. A lot of the objectives do seem very redundant at times, but at least there 
 are zombie Africans keeping you company and pissing you off so you can travel all around a swamp 
 to collect broken up parts of a "key" just to get along to the next part of the chapter. Moving 
 around is for one to get used to, and trying to escape enemies from up close is also a very hard 
 task when your knife only seems to help you if your enemy is already dying. That's one thing that 
 really bothers me about this game: up close combat. You are given a knife to use for this exact 
 reason, but it would've been a lot better if there was some sort of punching or kicking button. 
 Thankfully, they do give you that option that is, when the game feels like it. You have the option 
 to, when the enemy has either taken a vast amount of damage or Sheva is in trouble, to kick them, 
 punch them (or I like to call it the "knock them off their block" move) , and you can even curb 
 stomp them when you shoot them to the ground, gangsta style. That's nice and all, but it would've 
 been really awesome and helpful if they would've given you the command right off the bat, replacing 
 it with knife since the knife barely does **** The graphics and settings of the both the characters 
 and the setting really impressed me. I'm not much to judge graphics, because graphics aren't really 
 the fun part of a game in my book, but it just amazed me. The character design seems greatly put 
 together, with the "body features" and the moments don't feel robotic. The levels and settings 
 really fits in with the game perfectly, when I think Resident Evil, I usually think of dark and 
 grainy, almost disturbing settings, and that's what I got kind of. Some of the settings can be 
 very dark (traveling through a mine) and some even pretty disturbing (random shelters) . These seem 
 to be designed very nice and actually gets you prepared just incase something jumps out on you, 
 though anything surprisingly rarely happen. The audio isn't really one to be paid attention to. 
 I mean, yeah you usually will get your mysterious sound that will make you think, "What was that?" 
 to your normal and memorable finger nails running down the chalkboard sound, or at least some sort 
 of high pitched scrapping noise. One thing that always disappoints me when it comes to audio in 
 survival horror video games is that one suspense sound before something jumps out on you or something 
 gets you from behind. Those really ruin the whole "YOU'LL PLAY THIS GAME AND PISS YOUR PANTS" kind 
 of feeling. It would've been nice if there were something to pop up on you, just keeping it nothing 
 but silence would've been fantastic for the players that play games like these to be scared or 
 at least startled. The voice acting (which I really don't care for, unless it's seriously bad which 
 gives me a good laugh) was pretty good. Comparing it to the first Resident Evil game, then it's 
 superb. To wrap things up, the new installment of Resident Evil was in fact a really fantastic 
 game. Despite the fact there were some problems with the gameplay/controls and pretty much leaving 
 out anything to do with horror in this game, Capcom still knows how to make the series better and 
 better. Some improvements should've obviously been put in the game, but "you can't always get what 
 you want"
  
  Final Score:
  8.7/10
  
  **** you, Gamespot. Get a .1 scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpspeed
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 8:35 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I'm a relative newcomer to the Resident Evil series. The only one I've 
 played is RE 4. I tried to play Zero, and the remakes on the Gamecube, but couldn't really get 
 into them. Ever since RE4, I've been eagerly awaiting RE5. I even played the demo levels SEVERAL 
 times in anticipation.
  
  The first thing you'll notice is the stellar graphics. They are truly top-notch. I won't go into 
 too much detail on this, but it should be fairly obvious to anyone that's seen the game on a nice 
 TV or monitor.
  
  I was a little apprehensive when I heard that you'd always be playing the game with a partner. 
 Usually the computer AI is not what I'd like it to be and you end up saving your partner all the 
 time. Sheva actually does a pretty decent job of holding her own, and she's pretty quick to save 
 you if you get into trouble. My only complaints with the computer AI are that Sheva goes through 
 ammo rather quickly, and managing her inventory can be frustrating at times. She will randomly 
 pick up things that neither of you really need and fill up all of her slots. It's not too big of 
 a deal since you can request items from her and then discard them to free up her slots for more 
 useful items. If you are playing on the higher difficulty levels, however, I would highly recommend 
 playing with a human partner. Sheva can be quite frustrating on Professional difficulty.
  
  The fun really starts when you play online with a friend as your partner. My friend and I waited 
 to play it until we were both available to play it online, and it was totally worth the wait. If 
 you've played any other co-op games with friends online, then you already know how much fun this 
 can be. We've already burned through it on Normal, and Veteran and are now working on Professional.
 
  
  The controls and camera angles were heavily based on RE4, which to me is a good thing. They made 
 just a few tweaks to the control scheme and I think that it turned out really well. It didn't take 
 long at all to get used to the controls. Some people will complain that you can't fire while moving, 
 but I feel that it actually makes the game a little more intense and realistic.
  
  The other thing I really liked about this game were all of the items you could unlock. (Weapon 
 upgrades, additional weapons, unlimited ammo, graphic filters, Mercenaries mode, and additional 
 costumes) I can't explain how much fun it is to go through the game with an unlimited rocket launcher. 
 All of these bonuses really give the game great replay value.
  
  Overall, I thought the game was pretty solid. Good level design, good story, many different environments, 
 varied enemies, and decent challenge, especially on the higher difficulties. Fans of RE4, or of 
 Resident Evil in general, should definitely check this one out. It's not exactly "Survival Horror" 
 anymore since it's pretty simple to replay levels and stockpile ammo, but it's still a very fun 
 game to play. If you can't get past the fact that you can't move and shoot, this is not the game 
 for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowkid229
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Most revolutionary games of today, use the past as a guidance to make the game live on and explain 
 the events from previous games to make the game more interesting and keeps us from questioning 
 things any further (And I hate to leave a question unanswered) . Resident evil 5 to me is more than 
 just epic and full of fun and killing. Its racial too (hahahahha I am serious) . It has elements 
 from Resident Evil 1, 2 ,3, 4 (Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh El Gigante) combined makes it a great game. When 
 I saw elements from the Degeneration movie was added in to it, I was like what more do you need 
 or do we need. Well they added Sheva which added the coop experience to enhance the game-play and 
 a need for someone to be there to get rid of the zombie ON MY BACK, GET IT OF ME, GET IT OF ME 
 (SHEVA KICK) , Thx Sheva woohoo epic save. The only sad thing was when I heard one of characters 
 from the previous game died (spoiler) and it explains how so I will just leave it at that. You 
 are gonna need coop for the fact that when coming to different bosses you will need to have someone 
 as a guinea pig to distract the boss while set your killer plan in motion. Don't worry if your 
 guinea pig dies, GAME OVER, so use Sheva wisely and with care.
  
  My Suggestion to all the RE gamers, BUY the game. If you don't have a console, Buy a console and 
 then BUY THE GAME. Unless you are just an uptight little gamer then just you know what Rent it 
 and beat it and say to your friends "haha look it me I rented it and beat it". Don't you just hate 
 those people. I hope you enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aya_natsume
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Resident Evil 5 for a long time. I started playing the Resident Evil games 
 back 7 years ago, and personally, I can't decide which I like better, the new resident evil style, 
 or the older one.
  
  I grew up with Resident Evil 2, with Leon, Claire, the Tyrant chasing you everywhere. I found this 
 game to be the scariest game I've ever played.
  
  Down the road, I started playing others, all scary, all fun, all addicting.
  
  Resident Evil 
 4 came out, and it surprised me, it was a lot different. I didn't find it very scary, it was fun, 
 but not scary like the original horror franchise.
  
  Resident Evil 5, is even less scary. You have a partner with you the entire time, blabbing about 
 how you have to be more careful. Within the first couple hours, I wanted friendly fire on.
  
  The graphics and gameplay are amazing, extremely fun. Multiplayer is much better, because you 
 don't have the computer overusing the same line a hundred times.
  
  Overall though, I think Resident Evil was originally made to be scary, and it's changed to just 
 an action shooting game. I don't know if it will ever go back to being scary, only time will tell.
 
  
  Graphics: 10/10 Amazing graphics, none stand a chance against this game.
  
  Sound: 9/10 Good music and voice acting, just in game talking, like Sheva constantly asking you 
 to be careful, drives me up the wall.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 Lots of fun, exciting to the very end. Good controls, easy to get used to for anyone 
 who's never played Resident Evil before.
  
  Overall: 9.5/10 The graphics, music, gameplay, and voice acting are top notch, just Sheva's overused 
 lines are terrible. The story was a bit bland, and it wasn't scary at all. Still, it is worth buying.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx79
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:58 am PT
Review:  Soooo much hype over this game, had me all worked up until the day the demo came out.
  
  I can't say I am not disapointed but I can't say that I'm not enjoying this game either. In my 
 mind, I was expecting Resident Evil to deliver a true horror experience the way they had it back 
 in the days (RE 1, 2, 3 and Veronica) . RE4 was special in its own right as it represented a change 
 of direction in the series but it was still creepy and jumpy enough to make it a decent horror 
 game.
  
  Resident Evil 5 has seemingly dropped the "creepy and jumpy" elements of the previous series. The 
 game is now set in broad daylight for most parts which, to me, tones down the scare factor. Most 
 parts can be predicted too which is a real shame, most enemies are just too easy to tale down as 
 well which also tones down the game.
  
  On the other hand, what seemed to be a pain in the "derriere" in the demo proves to be a rather 
 unerving experience in the full game. The fact that your character is so slow and those enemies 
 are rather speedy makes for a good "tension" experience.
  
  The graphics are absolutely luscious although I have a big problem with the frame rate which seems 
 to have dropped out from almost every critics's radar. The frame rate are so bad in fact that they 
 compare to what we had in Mass Effect. Whilst you can get used to them, you just can't ignore the 
 fact they spoil a bit of your experience playing the game.
  
  The new co-op element proves to be a welcome challenge in most part of this game, although, if 
 you want my opinion, I find it rather annoying having to keep her tightly on a leash. If you don't 
 she will just wonder about, take all the amunition for herself (bad Sheva!) , spend it all and leave 
 you high and dry. She can also get herself in sticky situation whilst she's wondering around, for 
 which you have to quickly run to her and pet her until she's better again. As annoying as these 
 things might be, they can be avoided by contantly calling her by your side, or assigning a weapon 
 you do not want to her for her to play freely with. That said, I feel like we should not have to 
 constantly worry about her. It spoils it a bit for me. On the other hand, it is good to have someone 
 covering your back in tricky situations.
  
  Resident Evil 5 is, to me, a bad Resident Evil game, HOWEVER, it is a brillant action game. The 
 game feels too much like a bis repetita of RE4 but in daylight, some enemies are just repeats from 
 the previous installments as well (hardly inventive) and something I also found very cheap was 
 the bosses weak points (if you've played Lost Planet, you'll recognise these bright orange weak 
 spots instantly, and also the bat scorpion boss reminded me hugely of the flying "bee" boss from 
 Lost Planet too) . On the other hand, the action of this game is well balanced, challenging enough, 
 although very easy, the story is decent (I won't go there as there are too many spoilers) .
  
  As yet another turn in the series, I feel Resident Evil 5 should have been renamed to drop 
 the Resident Evil element and be part of some sort of spin-off series. It would have been more 
 fitting. So, if you're looking for a decent horror, edge of your seat game, turn to Silent Hill. 
 However, if you just want the action and another slice of the Resident Evil story line then this 
 game is for you.
  
  In any case, this game is a must own. And you have doubts, try it before you buy, as usual.
  
 
  PS: This game has a multiplayer element, which I have not played or intend to play (I am sad that 
 way) . It was deliberate of me not to include it in my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JurassicJock
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 1:53 am PT
Review:  This game was a biggey for me i love resident evil or BIOHAZARD been playing them for ages and 
 this blow my mind away the co-op was amasence i went through a couple of missions by myself and 
 the coordination was totalily mind blowing how if they your partner uses to much ammo you can feed 
 them ammo or you can tell them to pick some up and you can coordinate when you tell them to move 
 or attack or cover was quiet cool and a little fun. The Graphic are really something On A HDTV this 
 game Look amazing also the cut scenes / part active when you have to press a button/buttons to 
 move/Dodge/punch/SHOOT/Run which me personal thought SWEEEET the controls were easy in the way 
 of the CoD controls you know left trigger to aim and right to shoot easy ain't it so i thhink ive 
 covered game so if your think of buying it me personally you should.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Finally! A game developer has realized that if it's not broke... don't fix it. This is the case 
 with RE5. In RE4 the controls were revamped and updated to the over the shoulder view and weapon 
 handling was improved. For the latest installment in the RE franchise, they kept the over the shoulder 
 view and even made weapon/item select even easier and smoother. (this review based on single player 
 playthrough)
  
  The story takes place in Africa where Chris has hunted down more information about the virus and 
 Wesker. Here he teams up with Sheva in an attempt to finally put an end to all this madness. Capcom 
 really puts a nice closure on the game and ties up a lot of lose ends. (not all, just most)
  The teamwork aspect of the game really makes it a challenge in single player mode as you have to 
 rely on the A. I. to watch your back and also heal you when your badly injured. Obviously if your 
 playing co-op, I would assume your partner would do it for you as well. This also comes into play 
 when certain puzzles and switches have to be solved with 2 people. Normally they arent that difficult 
 to solve as long as you can keep the endless infected African people from killing you. Plus you 
 can swap items and weapons with your partner on the fly and tell them to turn wheels or pick up 
 items. Very helpful if your item slots are filled and you dont wanna give up a good item or ammo.
 
  
  The game itself has gone away from the suspence aspect because in this version you are constantly 
 attacked by groups of enemies who will annouce their presence. In later stages they even shoot 
 back at you with high powered weapons. Most of the common enemies will just punch or throw something 
 at you, but the real pain are the mini-bosses. Which in some cases are harder to beat than main 
 Bosses. For anyone who knows the series, the Chainsaw enemies are STILL a royal pain! Now top it 
 off with more mini-bosses and creatures with higher intelligence are you got your work cut out 
 for you. Plus lets not forget the sudden Croccodile attacks while wading through the shallow waters. 
 
  
  The one thing that has been constant is the immobility of the main character. You still have to 
 stop in order to take aim and shoot. This causes issues when your surrounded by multiple enemies 
 or fast enemies that run behind you. There is a quick turn around but sometimes that doesnt really 
 matter. Also, when your bring up the items menu it is in real time, meaning the action doesnt stop 
 while you decide which weapon to use or to heal yourself. This isnt really a problem as you can 
 get used to it after a while. With the quick weapon selection (arrow keys) going into the menu 
 during battles isnt necessary.
  
  The game is addicting to play and can be beaten in a few hours, but you wont get all the weapons 
 or enjoy killing massive amounts of enemies. I took my time and searched around for items, making 
 sure to kill anything in my way. There are some bonus features you can obtain by finding hidden 
 symbols that need to be shot or by doing actions throughout the game. Plus you can collect many 
 treasures from beating mini-bosses or laying around in walls or drawers. These treasures can be 
 sold in between chapters or after you die in order to purchase upgrades for your weapons. Increasing 
 your firepower and ammo capacity will always be helpful as you progress in the game. As for the 
 main Bosses themselves, they arent exactly impossible to defeat. They look awesome and take a long 
 time to kill as you have to do it in certain ways. There is not one boss that dies "just" by shooting 
 it with guns. Some you have to burn, others are shot with multiple weapons or have to be hit in 
 certain areas or ways. Each one takes strategy and patience to defeat. 
  
  Overall this is definately the best game in the series in terms of graphics and gameplay. Although 
 your partner can be annoying at times, you will be grateful to have her around during many chapters. 
 PLenty of reasons to replay (you can play as Sheva!) that will keep you interested for many hours.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bone4eva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Was Resident Evil 5 worth the wait? you bet it was. a lengthy campaign. Loads of extras and a new 
 co - op mode feature.
  
  
  You take role of a guy named Chris Redfield. You'll arrive in Africa in a town called Kijuju. you'll 
 meet a women named Sheva Alomar.
  
  
  
  You'll meet up with some epic boss battles. As you progress through the game you'll be able to 
 buy more weapons and upgrade them. This time around there is no merchant. Every time you die or 
 after you complete a chapter. you'll enter this out of game play shop. There you can upgrade weapons. 
 Buy any items you might need, and organize your weapons and items.
  
  
  
  Once you beat the game. You'll unlock the Mercenaries minigame. Like in Resident Evil 4, you can 
 choose and character and blast infected. You'll unlock other things like secret costumes, graphic 
 filters, and the ability to start a new game with all your saved items and costumes. Once you bet 
 it, you should have a good amount of points you get from beating chapters or mercenarie matches. 
 With these points you can use it to buy infinite ammo or figurines.
  
  
  
  All in all Resident Evil 5 is a great game that you should play no matter who you are, whether 
 if your a die hard Resident Evil fan or just fans of the 4th one this is a game that no one should 
 miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin8se7en
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 12:29 am PT
Review:  Simply one of the best games in recent history.
  
  It had a HUGE load on it's shoulders, being the sequel to one of the best games in modern gaming 
 (Resident Evil 4) but it didn't disappoint at all.
  
  A MUST HAVE! for 360 or PS3
  
  In most games, i just want to skip the cut-scenes because they are either long or boring but they 
 don't give you the option. Which is SUPER annoying when you have to replay a chapter/level and 
 have to watch it AGAIN!
  
  In this game, you can skip them if you want... but you don't want to... EVER! They are the right 
 length and make up a great story. So you actually get in to the story rather than racing to the 
 end.
  
  The game doesn't drag on either, it's a good length (30 hour-ish) .
  
  One thing I loved was how Sheba (Your female partner throughout the game) is actually not an idiot! 
 She very rarely dies, and it's never because of stupidity on her part. She actually helps you and 
 doesn't just get in your way. The AI is great.
  Another thing is the amount of Ammo you get. You can't be shooting at nothing and wasting bullets 
 all the time but you also don't feel like your going to run out because there isn't enough ammo 
 lying around. It has a good balance.
  
  Controls take a bit of getting use to but overall were fantastic and smooth.
  
  Graphically 
 the game is awesome too.
  
  Summary:
  Great AI
  Perfect Difficulty
  Fantastic Controls
  Amazing Graphics
  Good Length
  Very Good Story
  And a very high FUN 
 FACTOR make this game a 10/10
  
  ... I also think Gamespot's rating of 8.5 is crap... This game is MUCH better than any other 8.5 
 game on here (Left 4 dead, CoD: WaW, FarCry 2, Vegas 2... The Darkness... cmon lol) and is more 
 comparable to the likes of games rated 9.0+ games (Gears of War 2, Fallout 3, Street Fighter 4... 
 etc...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWIFFT
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 10:49 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing through this game and I had even more fun when I played with friends on 
 xbox live. The game doesn't feel like Resident Evil though because its not dark, scary, and has 
 a crappy story. A++ GamePlay is all that matters though! The boss battles are amazing and thankfully 
 not too difficult to get through once you figure out how they work. Graphics are top quality. I 
 think the game would get an 8.5 if it was as fun offline as it is online. The AI is done very well 
 but no matter how well sheva reacts, a real person is so much more fun. Using the headset to communicate 
 with a partner is a level of gameplay that adds a lot to this game, and something that cannot be 
 done offline of course. 
  
  It is one of the best 3rd person shooters on the market and hopefully we will get more out of it 
 through DLC. Survive the zombie nation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennyxxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:25 pm PT
Review:  yep, one of the best third person games iv played in a long while. i `am right into Gears of war 
 and still am, but for a new blood soaked video game it ranks highly in my books, the graphics are 
 pretty darn good too if i might say, weapons could be abit better as in looking through your gun 
 sights rather then just a red beam that you have to pin on a enimy charactor, but you get use to 
 it pretty quick i think, and i must say there is one thing i don`t realy like is when they introduce 
 a partner that tags along whether it be male/female and gets in the way all the darn time, not only 
 they rather shoot through you at the enimy, but also trap you when you try to go through a door, 
 man that`s a pain!, but i can live with that, and im not saying only this game has that type of play, but 
 other than that its a cool game, anyway that`s my thoughts on the game. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunit6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:42 pm PT
Review:  First things first, I have to admit that RE4 is my second favorite game of of all time so I had 
 high expectations for this game. Guess what, I'm satisfied. This game isn't missing much to me. 
 Sure sometimes in single player Sheva pissed me off with her idiocy and I wish I had more than 
 9 item slots, but that makes it more challenging. I played the demo before this game came out and 
 I walked away thinking it was alright, but for some reason the whole package captured me. The weapon 
 selection is great as usual and I love the physical combos too. The story was interesting and not 
 dull like alot of other action games. I did miss Leon, but Chris is another veteran of the game 
 and a pretty good character. The action stays constant and entertaining, it's always fun to look 
 at your surroundings and use them to your advantage. The gameplay is basically the same as RE4 
 and there's no complaints on my part about that. The merc missions are fun and all the unlockables 
 are easily acquired because the game is so good you'll play over and over. Thanks capcom for giving 
 me a game that captured my interest enough for me to put the time into it to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petruvai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 2:33 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game I knew that it was going to be similar to RE4. It turns out that it is 
 alot like RE4 but not in an annoying "I've done that before" kind of way. There are enough differences 
 between RE4 and RE5 for both to be considered great in their own way. 
  
  The largest difference between the two games is playing solo vs. with a partner. The new addition 
 of Sheva to the gameplay equation is for the most part a welcome change. The issue with her is 
 that you have to know how to use her. A few things to consider:
  
  1.) She wastes handgun amo like she has an infinite supply. So as soon as you are able, give her 
 a different weapon. 
  
  2.) Give her your health supplies. She is actually quite good at keeping you alive.
  
  3.) 
 She doesn't use grenades or proximity bombs at all, so if you give them to her, know that she is 
 only holding them for you.
  
  4.) Don't always trust her to cover you. Later in the game she became a bit useless as far as cover 
 fire. If I was focusing my fire on a harder enemy, she stood by and let a bunch of easier enemies 
 flank me (while she stood next to me and did nothing) .
  
  All in all, it's a great game. It can be frustrating at times, but not so much that it depreciates 
 the value of the game.
  
  As for the racial problems that people have with the game, here is my two-cents:
  
  I believe 
 that the reason that they didn't make a bigger deal out of the race issue in the game was that 
 it wasn't a big deal to them. For the most part, the skulls on shelves and slaughtered animals 
 and such had the same function that they did in RE4. They didn't make a big deal of the "Africa" 
 issue becuase it wasn't a big deal. It's just the vibe of the RE universe in a different locale. 
 I could go on all day about this, but I'll stop myself now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr3v3r
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Although I miss the horror in resident evil games, RE5 as a co-op over the top action game that 
 has the same gameplay style as RE4 is amazing.
  
  Here are the wins and cons
  
  wins:
  Co-Op is incorporated well and a must do.
  Story is very epic
  Replay value is very 
 high
  Mercenaries is still really fun to play.
  Cut scenes are over the top, Hollywood style.
  The inventory does provide some tension due to 
 having the inventory being live and doesn't stop the game.
  
  Cons:
  Playing it alone isn't as fun.
  Sheva's AI is braindead.
  Some story elements are predictable.
 
  Inventory doesn't feel like the other RE's
  Where the f*ck is the merchant?
  
  But over-all, this is a must have for fans of the RE series, mostly the fans who like Resident 
 Evil 4 more than the other RE's cuz this might piss off some old time fans. Though its a 12 hour 
 game, Ive spent more than 35 hours and counting, its just that addicting.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmonee
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  If you played RE4 then you will be able to jump right into this game. Any attempt at suspense will 
 fail because any RE4 vet. will see it coming a mile away. If your new to the new RE experience, 
 then I assure you, there will be thrills to be had. It only takes one playthru to see the wizard 
 behind the curtain of this game. I thought that the forced co-op worked O. K., but wasn't necessary. 
 My biggest problem with this game was indeed the Co-op. RE should scare and worry you. With a partner, 
 those fears go away. Lastly, there isn't enough money earned on the resale of weapons and ammo, 
 causing you to have to play thru the game 3 or times before you can really beef up your arsenal. 
 At least RE4 made it so you could get the infinite ammo tommy gun after one solid play thru. If 
 Capcom was wise, they would have re-released RE4 over live for RE rookies. I didn't hate this game, 
 but yawn at the prospect of ever picking it up again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azazel29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 1:56 am PT
Review:  its a great, unique game that plays a lot like RE4. story and boss fights are predictable. despite 
 that its very solid. by solid I mean its fun and worth buying. the controls, feel, pace, and gameplay 
 are all reminescent of RE4, but it is a completely different game so I cant just say its the same 
 thing. The story is good but predictable... you chase after this guy.. you catch him.. uses parasite 
 to become powerful (despite ruining and disfiguring their human bodies to look like a monster, 
 why would you do that?) .... you kill him. and repeat. It's repetative, but the game finds ways 
 to refresh itself several times over just like 4 did. Thats what makes it a great game. If you 
 have a friend or sibling who likes playing games this is a great game to play with another human 
 rather than having an AI partner. I mean lets face it. a game is almost always more fun with playing 
 with friends. The game keeps giving you new guns to keep you excited in trying them out and it 
 looks amazing with no technical issues to note. Plus after you beat the game there is some descent 
 replay value... plenty to unlock and tougher difficulty modes.. with professional putting you in 
 "dying" mode with just 1 hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronBass
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 1:31 am PT
Review:  When I reviewed Resident Evil 4, I named it "the best action game ever". Four years later, I stay 
 in my position; RE4 still stands as the most awesome action game this humble gamer has played.
 
  
  With such an ancestor, it was impossible for Resident Evil 5 not to be judged under the highest 
 standards. The question is, does RE5 live up to the pedigree created by its prequel?
  
  The answers are "no" and "almost".
  
  The story returns to one of the series' best known faces, 
 ex-S. T. A. R. S. agent Chris Redfield, now member of the B. S. A. A., an international organization dedicated 
 to destroy the menace of bio-terrorism after Umbrella's fall. 
  
  In this occasion, Chris travels to Africa, with the mission to assist the Alpha Team of the B. S. A. A. 
 with the arrest of Ricardo Irving, an important bio-weapon smuggler. In Africa Chris welcomes a 
 new partner, fellow B. S. A. A. agent and native Sheva Alomar. Together they discover that the mysterious 
 syndrome that government special agent Leon S. Kennedy reported have found in Spain four years 
 sooner seems to be affecting the population of the Kijuju zone. And so does the nightmare begin 
 again. 
  
  The basic gameplay has remained practically unchanged. Chris runs aims, shoots, knifes and hits 
 stunted enemies like Leon did in RE4. There are some new interesting weapons and movements, but 
 overall the gameplay is identical. It does not try to be scary, but it doesn't need it either. 
 It is a very solid and polished gameplay even that makes worthy the sacrifice of "horror".
  
  The major change, however, is the one that may decide your enjoyment while playing the game: 
 your partner. 
  
  Like Leon did on some sequences of RE4, you have a partner to take care of. The difference between 
 her and Ashley, nonetheless, is that she will also attack the enemies and heal you when you're 
 the one in need. She is built as a complete player, even having her own inventory system. 
  
  That would be an advantage if she actually helped, but she doesn't. And there's no way for 
 you to avoid the fact that you'll spend most of the time playing as her nanny. Is an artificial 
 method of creating tension, but it only makes the games more difficult, in the wrong way. On higher 
 difficulty settings, it gets too frustrating.
  
  Undeniable, the forced co-op can be a nightmare playing the game alone, but, when doing it with 
 a friend, either online (with voice chat, of course) or split/screen, it makes the game a paradise. 
 The game is very smartly built for co-op. Item management, shooting, the co-op melee moves; everything 
 seems to fit perfectly when two are the ones playing. 
  
  There's not much left to comment about the game. The graphics are simply outstanding; it is very 
 difficult to find a game that looks so realistic and so good on consoles. The enemies are varied 
 and attack with tons of different patterns/weapons. The music is not the best, but complements 
 well the action sequences. The boss battles are epic, but there are not many of them and the bosses' 
 designs are far too similar. The story progresses with not many memorable moments, but it offers 
 enough to keep you going.
  The game also offers a wide selection of unlockables, like different costumes for both Chris and 
 Sheva, action figures from practically every character and the magnificent and now improved Mercenaries 
 mode, now with a co-op option, too.
  
  Having a friend to play it with, there's absolutely no reason not to play this game. It as an awesome 
 experience, filled with memorable battles and events, with a solid gameplay, an excellent presentation 
 and interesting unlockables. 
  
  Playing it alone, Resident Evil 5 could be considered average, but it is undeniable that, in multiplayer, 
 it nears perfection.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:47 pm PT
Review:  To all of the bigots out there, remember that zombies are people too. They have hopes, dreams, 
 feelings, and desires. Yes, they have a strong urge to consume other individuals, and yes they 
 have no brain and find it difficult to complete the easiest tasks, but nevertheless they are still 
 people. It is true that they are technically "dead"; however, they are still living, breathing 
 creatures that deserve to be treated fairly.. with a bullet in the head. :)
  
  It's been years since the incident in Raccoon City. Everyone thought that the nightmare was over 
 when the entire city was bombarded-they were wrong. A new deadly outbreak has been reported in 
 the vicinity of Africa, and it's up to Chris Redfield, one of the few survivors of the incident, 
 and newcomer Sheva Alomar to get to the bottom of this case. Little does Chris know that he's about 
 to confront the same nightmare all over again.
  
  (Note: Racial Controversy)
  Resident Evil 5 has created a lot of tension revolving around racial issues. Many claim that playing 
 as an American who murders millions of blacks is racist and completely appalling. Now I don't want 
 to take a side on this controversy, I feel it all depends upon the player's beliefs. However, it 
 did feel awkward when Capcom decided to frontload a lot of "black history" type imagery into the 
 game- it didn't enhance the game play experience at all, it felt like Capcom did it just to put 
 it in there. 
  
  Resident Evil 5 is a third person shooter that can be played solo or cooperatively with a computer 
 or another human player. There's something that separates this third person shooter from all the 
 others out there: the control scheme. If you have played Resident Evil 4 you'll feel comfortable 
 with the control scheme and will be able to easily adapt to it. If you haven't played Resident 
 Evil 4 or any of the other games in the series, the control scheme may be a huge turn-off. 
  
  If a group of hungry and blood thirsty zombies surrounded you, what would you do? Well, I don't 
 know about you, but I would run AND shoot my way to a safer area. In Resident Evil 5 you CANNOT, 
 I repeat CANNOT move and shoot simultaneously. Why? I don't know, maybe because Capcom was on a 
 budget cut and they couldn't teach Chris and Sheva how to handle a gun while moving, who knows. 
 If you can adapt to the controls you will find yourself having a bloody good time. 
  
  RE 5 is best played cooperatively with another human player mainly due to the fact that you're 
 A. I. partner is about as bright as an old pile of toe nail clippings. Ok I might have exaggerated 
 just a bit, but nevertheless you're A. I. partner just isn't that smart. Don't be surprised if you 
 see your partner squandering his or her ammo, running head first into a pile of zombies, and getting 
 chain sawed left to right. You essentially have to babysit your partner because once you take your 
 eyes off him or her, that dreadful "Game Over" screen will appear on your T. V. 
  
  RE 5 offers a wide range of weapons to utilize in your zombie hunting quest. Just like every other 
 shooter you can use a shotgun (great for creating kool aid if you know what I mean) , an automatic 
 weapon (perfect to have if your fingers get itchy) , or a sniper rifle (an essential tool for "bird 
 watching") . Or if you want to be a philanthropist you can always stick to the handgun/knife combination. 
 
  
  Resident Evil 5 is a gorgeous game from top to bottom. Something even as small as the lighting 
 effects bring the world of Resident Evil to life. There is a sheer amount of detail placed within 
 each unique environment from the skin burning deserts to the creepy underground caves. The character 
 models are beautifully rendered and the monsters look like they've come from the deepest darkest 
 pits of (insert word here) itself, which in this case is a good thing. The sound design was also 
 spectacular. Some of the voice acting sounded strange and peculiar, but the sound effects really 
 captured the essence of the game. 
  
  Overall: Resident Evil 5 is a great addition to the Resident Evil series. Although the series itself 
 has lost its edge for being a terrifying and blood curling experience, it makes a tradeoff by replacing 
 horror with addicting game play and fast paced action. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgjacklove
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  First of all. I love Resident evil always have always will and Resident evil 5 is one of the best 
 and not at the same time in the Resident evil series. One thing I love about Resident evil 5 is 
 that you can play online with a friend. now That makes the game way more fun then just playing 
 by your safe. But does it mean playing alone is no fun it just not as fun. Mostly because the AI 
 for your partner kind of sucks. She can waste too much ammo and healing item at times when she 
 dose it need to. And some time she's just dose it fire her weapon when you do need her. But that 
 could be fix by just having a friend play with you. Most people are saying that its not a survival 
 horror game like it should have be. But that's ok because they wrap of a lot of thing in the Resident 
 evil series. And because of that it's a good thing they did not make it a survival horror game 
 or I think it would have not worked. And Yes it's more of a action game this time around. But You 
 will be hook Intel the end. But its not as long the other RE games. That makes it kind of a letdown. 
 Most because you can beat this game in 10H or less in the first time around. But there lot of things 
 to unlock. And they give us back Mercenary and with that the game wont get boring any time soon. 
 This game its just a most have for people who love the RE series or who like action games. Just 
 one of these game that you have to play. So go rent it or buy it but no matter how you get it your 
 going to have fun or love it like I did. So that's the end of my review on RESIDENT EVIL 5 and 
 my first review on GameSpot so thanks reading. And hope I make some friends on here :]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xJuice_Boxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm on my 3rd playthrough already and can't wait to beat it again. Never before have I started 
 a 2nd time through right after finishing the first one. I have unlocked so many weapsons and they 
 just keep getting better and better. My favorite game in a long time. I would reccomend picking 
 this up if you havent already you wont regret it. The feel of the game is a little diifferent than 
 previous RE titles (the last one I played a great deal was RE2) but it is extremely enjoyable and 
 any fan of the series should love it right away. Even if you don't like the demo (I didn't that 
 much) they actual game and story is much better when you get into it. The difficulty of the game 
 is just right for both the average gamer and a seasoned veteran of shooters. I would have liked 
 to have the story be a little bit longer but there is so much to do and explore that you can replay 
 it over and over and still not accomplish everthing. So if your looking for an excellent game that 
 you can spend hours Pick it up, blast some zombies, and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaKeR4lyfe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:15 pm PT
Review:  To anyone who is truely a fan of Resident Evil, and not just RE4. I think you'll agree when I say 
 Resident Evil isnt what it used to be. I used to enjoy killing ZOMBIES, and solving PUZZLES. And 
 now all it has to offer is killing insane villagers with weapons? Dont get me wrong this game is 
 F-ing awesome, and so was re4, infact I think it was the best game I ever owned for ps2. But I 
 did NOT expect, nor want resident evil to continue that path.
  
  This games graphics are beautiful, the motion capture work is stunning, This game even has facial 
 mo-cap and it shows. The cinimatics are the best I've ever seen. The weapons are name brand, like 
 baretta, and HK. Those are my favorite manufactures so im glad theyre in this game.
  
  The music in this game is GREAT at some parts, others I felt like I was in gothem city fighting 
 cat-woman. 
  
  The voice over work is very precise, which goes along with what I said about the cinimatics. I 
 mean, I thaught I could give this game a ten but the more I think about it the more I realize this 
 game jumped right out the ass crack of Resident Evil 4 and thats just not flawless. But you know 
 what would be nice, a RE that takes place in an urban invirement, has real ZOMBIES, an over the 
 shoulder aiming system with a higher sensitivity. You need to be able to atleast jog on the aim 
 forwards backwards left and right. And puzzles, lots of very puzzling puzzles. And that game will 
 get a ten, from me atleast.
  
  oh and it needs to be able to obtain the title survival horror, not action adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  ok this is my review about RE5 and to me its the best game I know for the history of all games 
 and the best in the series (its my opinion dont ask) but I just love this game its so fun to just 
 play and be with friends online and I mean thats like the best thing that its a co-op so when in 
 need just tell a friend to grab a controller and to start shooting cause to me the reason why it 
 never gets boring is because you never use the same weapons trough out the whole games some times 
 you have to switch weapons like the shotty and snipe and if your are really good like me and my 
 friend you will make up classes like you be a long range with a bow or the best a gattling gun 
 while he goes right into the action and shoots there head off the thing I didnt like was that it 
 was way shorter than the 4th one and this one is way easier but over all I think this game deserves 
 a perfect 10 because of all the cool extras like costumes, upgrades and of course the never boring 
 Mercinaries you can unlock the mode after beating the game and what it is, is that you a partner 
 go into a certain stage pick your character and you see how long and how many kills you can get 
 in about 6 minutes or more if you find all the time bonuses and you get high combos really quick 
 but I have to admit it gets kind of hard cause they send all the bosses of a certain level like 
 a guy with a HUGE axe me and my brother killed him 3 to 5 times and he is a pain to kill but he 
 is worth it as you play mercinaries you need ammo of course and he will drop about 20 shots for 
 a gun or 50 if you have a machinegun and that was my review on RE5 so if you have any quistons 
 send a friend request to either me NightSigfreid or my friend Dorian222222222 he has nine 2s so 
 thats all thanks for reading NightSigfreid out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: votc200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  Using the same, excellent over the shoulder camera blasting fun as resident evil 4, Capcom managed 
 to make it all the better keeping the action rolling a lot faster with the D pad instant weapon 
 changing. You can shoot the enemy's in many more spots, to do a ton of different completely satisfying 
 "Special Moves". 
  Section Rating : 10/10
  
  MUSIC & SOUND EFFECTS:
  Wow! The music in this game is some of the best music I have heard in years in a video game, with 
 perfect timing on the music starting, to match the theme. Capcom did a perfect job hands down on 
 the music.
  Sounds, Pretty much the same. Guns sound really good, environmental sound effects almost sound 
 like real life, as if that wasn't enough, the voice acting is excellent to top it all off.
  Section Rating: 10/10
  
  GRAPHICS & MOTION CAPTURE
  My jaw dropped, the second the game started 
 (game play wise) on my 720P HD TV, I was flat out blown away by what capcom pulled with Resident 
 Evil 5's graphics, extreme resolution and bit mapping on everything, with very little to no FPS 
 decrease, through the entire game. 
  The motion capture on this game couldn't have been any better, The cinematic are flat out gorgeous 
 in every way.
  Section Rating : 10/10
  
  ONLINE CO-OP / AI PARTNER!
  Playing Online with a friend with this epic game, couldn't possibly get anymore awesome. Enough 
 said.
  As for the AI Partner, Though very good with Rifles and healing you, can waste a TON of ammo on 
 the dumbest things, including blowing it into your back, if a enemy is infront of you. Capcom could 
 have done a better Job.
  Section Rating : 4/5
  
  STORY:
  Using Chris, Jill, and Wesker from Resident evil 1, was a very smooth move from Capcom to really 
 get the fans of resident evil into this game, they executed all of there storys really well of 
 why and how they are where they are today. Though ending is a bit of a let down for the extreme 
 hype, the story itself , though a bit short, is still very good.
  
  ALL IN ALL:
  This game is a absolute blast! Though its more of a action game then survival horror, Capcom still 
 manages to hook me onto the resident evil series yet again, even after all these years.
  
  I highly recommend you play this game any way you can, to have yourself a great time, solo, of 
 with a friend.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnson1542
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is very disapointing to resident evil fans. If you have ever played number 4 there 
 were parts that were actually scary. In this game was not one part that scared me at all. Also, 
 it got very repetative, Blasting the same zombies over and over is pretty fun for a couple of hours. 
 The good thing about this game is co-op. Playing with a friend and having them do certain things 
 for you in the game is quite a bonding experience. Having them give you certain items and giving 
 to them is quite very pleasing. Overall, if you have played number 4, you will be a little disappointed. 
 The story line is kind of lame. But if you are new to the series. You will have a blast. It is 
 pretty entertaining grabby weapons, then reloading them to make space in your inventory, handing 
 grenades and ammo to sheva couldn't be more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dolenraug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is an amazing game. I've probably replayed it more than anything else I own. Resident 
 Evil 5 does many of the same things, and that's part of it's problem. Capcom took the winning style 
 of RE 4 and slapped on a fresh coat of paint before shipping it out to the masses. While this made 
 for an entertaining experience, it wasn't anything really new.
  
  Still, this isn't MY biggest problem with Resident Evil 5. Just like Resident Evil 4, this doesn't 
 completely feel like Resident Evil anymore. It's fun, it's more-than-competent, but it doesn't 
 have the right feel, the right atmosphere. 
  
  To put it in movie terms, Resident Evils 1-3 were to Alien as Resident Evil 4 and 5 were to Aliens. 
 Both are good movies, but Alien is very horror-oriented (claustrophobic and unnerving) and Aliens 
 is much more action. Instead of having a confined space with a limited number of relentless enemies, 
 RE 4 and 5 give us a linear space with a massive onslaught of relentless enemies and a comparable 
 number of weapons and ammunition to dispatch them with. There is still a level of intensity, but 
 it's because of being overwhelmed, not necessarily scared. 
  
  But that's my main rant. As for the game, it is fun, it plays well (though Chris and Sheva are 
 still tanks) , and it ties into the overall story, albeit the EVOLUTION of the story, started with 
 the original Resident Evils. It's pretty to look at and there's a lot to do -- although it does clock 
 in shorter than RE 4. Overall, I enjoy it. I've played it and I'll play it again. Still, I can't 
 help but miss the good old days of roaming the Arklay Mansion and the Raccoon Police Department. 
 I think it's time for a remake of RE2. Who's with me?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kungfu-Panda
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  Fear you can't forget. 
  The slogan of Resident Evil 5, the newest part of the Resident Evil franchise.
  First of all: 
 I am not a really big fan of the Resident Evil series but after I played the demo I decided to 
 give RE5 a chance. It started off with a short introduction of a mysterious woman and with the 
 first appearance of our old hero Chris Redfield ( now a B. S. A. A. North America agent ) and his 
 new partner Sheva Alomar. An agent with the
  B. S. A. A. West African Brench. Sheva might be the most realistic and coolest gamer chick you have 
 seen in a while. The story of RE5 is fully build around Chris and Sheva so this game is ideal for 
 co-op play. It's not a very heavy handed story but it has some cool plots and a satisfying ending.
 
  
  And now about the gameplay. Resident evil is known for its famous/infamous controls that take some 
 time to get used to but will not form a problem later in the game. Switching or grabbing something 
 from you inventory can be difficult when you are surrounded by enemies, the new so called "majini'". 
 But this difficulty adds to the tension of the game. And remember RE5 is not an run and gun FPS 
 but a survival horror game where you have to shoot a lot. 
  
  The graphics of RE5 are very nice. The new location, an non-existing land in Africa is set to give 
 you lots of beautiful and different looking levels. Like shanty towns, mines, caves and the marshlands, 
 an everglades looking setting complete with crocodiles (I know the everglades have alligators) 
 and airboats. In the new Resident Evil you will have a lot of boss fights and the bosses in RE5 
 look as nasty, disgusting and detailed like I have never seen before. But there are a few things 
 that don't look that good, especially the water in a few levels looks like it's been drawn by a 
 four year old. Well that's a bit overdone but for the most part RE5 looks great. It's original 
 soundtrack is also nice. The music and voice acting add to the tension and exciting experience 
 of this game.
  
  Resident Evil 5 has been in development for over 4 years but the game is pretty short. The game 
 can be completed in about 7 hours on the normal difficulty and that's with opening and collecting 
 all the ammo on the way and defeating all enemies, no rushing. And on the internet are videos of 
 guys speed running through the game in about two hours. But the replay value makes up for this, 
 with all the weapons you can buy and upgrade and all the money that goes with it you can play chapters 
 over and over again to earn money. And there's lots of stuff to collect such as treasures, B. S. A. A. 
 emblems and different kinds of eggs. 
  
  Is there really nothing wrong? Now sad to say there are a few things. Connecting with someone to 
 play co-op online is unusual, and the game sometimes gets stuck at loading screens while playing 
 online. And when playing splitscreen on a HDTV the screens are really small. But most importantly 
 the game really isn't that scary, the slogan "Fear you can't forget" doesn't fit this game at all. 
 There are a few unexpected things and a lot of things that make you say things like: "WTF, that's 
 nasty" But scary? No not really. If you want real horror you better play Condemned or the older 
 games of Resident Evil. 
  
  Resident Evil 5 is an great action game that gives you a fun co-op experience all the way.
  With 
 great graphics, challenging gameplay and lots of replay value, Resident Evil 5 will keep you busy 
 for weeks. DLC that will feature a versus mode is on the way and the Mercenaries mode are some 
 cool extra as well. And I must say I wasn't a big fan of Resident Evil, But I am NOW! 
  
  The Good
  
  - Nice graphics and animations
  - Great Co-op experience
  - Lots of replay 
 value
  - Beautiful soundtrack and good sound effects
  - Challenging controls and gameplay
  
  The Bad
  
  - Problems with online co-op and splitscreen
 
  - Minor glitches and loading screen problems
  - Not scary
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:43 pm PT
Review:   5, also known as Biohazard 5 which is 
 also known here in North America as Resident Evil 5 is to say the least, the latest and greatest 
 from Capcom. Be aware though, despite the fact it carries the name of the series predecessors, 
 Resident Evil 5 does not exactly play like the previous titles in the series. Granted it takes 
 many cues from Resident Evil 4, but besides this Resident Evil 5 is a unique experience from the 
 other games. Though this may be to the dismay of die-hard Resident Evil fans, I don't think many 
 will miss the somewhat dated gameplay of the older installments. Capcom has proven that they have 
 the capabilities to make an outstanding action game and this really shows itself in Resident Evil 
 5. On top of this, Capcom has also proven that they can work miracles as somehow Resident Evil 
 5 manages to withhold many Resident Evil ideals in its new 'shell'. For one, there is still a high 
 level of tension in some parts of the game; this can especially be noted when playing on harder 
 difficulties. The game also doesn't rely on run and gun; rather it relies on over the shoulder 
 'stop and shoot' gameplay which should please fans of Resident Evil 4. It also keeps the corny 
 dialogue, over the top but awesome characters, a faithful and engaging plot, and the structure 
 that we've all come to know and love. Yes Resident Evil 5 is a stellar game and it has made the 
 jump to the next generation with relatively few stumbles along the way. 
  
  The plot of Resident Evil 5 starts out quite simple. Chris Redfield, a member of the newly formed 
 BSAA, is sent to Africa to stop what appears to be a bio-weapons deal. He is partnered up with 
 Sheva Alamar, a member of the African sector of the BSAA. Like in all video games this relatively 
 simple goal goes amiss and Chris and Sheva are now stuck in Kijuju to face unimaginable horror 
 and to answer old questions which haunt Chris Redfield. The plot is great though despite its relative 
 simplicity. For one, though it is predictable, it does a great job of answering series questions 
 and it did scratch my perennial itch regarding the questions Capcom raised in the games advertisement. 
 It's also well structured and it's never too much. There is not a lot of development in the plot 
 early in the game, rather it comes later and this is to the games benefit. This game was not built 
 for a 'Metal Gear Solid-esque' plot so I am thankful Capcom didn't make it more then it had to 
 be. It succeeds though based on its faithfulness and cast of characters and this was really all 
 it needed to please fans.
  
  The plot is also well tied together with cut scenes which to say the least are brilliant. Not only 
 do they look gorgeous but they also have great action choreography which is cinematic in quality. 
 They rival some of the best in gaming and it's quite the achievement. The corny dialogue the series 
 is noted for is still there but I love it, I'd have it no other way. In case you were wondering, 
 yes there are quick time events in the cinematics but they are rare. They are very easy to pull 
 off and they won't hurt your experience. I'd say the help the game actually since they force you 
 to pay attention to what is going on around you and they encourage interactivity in the story no 
 matter how trivial the effect the event has.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes this time around, it's Resident Evil 4 with a friend if I was to summarize 
 it in a few words. The game plays very similar albeit with a few additions to the formula to satisfy 
 the cooperative component of the game. For one, you still can't run and gun which is something 
 series fans will like, but newcomers might hate. When you want to fire a weapon, depending on your 
 control scheme you'll press one button to enter an aiming mode, then another to shoot. It works 
 fine and it helps to add that tiny bit of tension to make it even more of an adrenaline rush. To 
 reload you have to enter this aiming mode as well and then you press another button. You have to 
 be careful though since ammo on your first play through must be carefully managed. If you don't 
 have enough you might find yourself stuck on a boss which might force you to go back in the game 
 and play through in order to get more ammo. I never had problems with it though and once you hit 
 your second play through ammo management becomes a thing of the past; this is especially seen when 
 you unlock infinite ammo weapons. 
  
  The artificial intelligence in Resident Evil 5 is decent but not great. They tend to rely on swarming 
 you rather then intelligence but hey, they are majini not super soldiers. Later on though as they 
 become more intelligent you have to use a cover mechanic which works capably well though it is 
 a bit jarring and off putting at first. These two points though are arguably the weak point in 
 the gameplay. They are not necessarily bad but they are a bit, odd so to speak.
  
  The game has many elements tailored specifically for cooperative play. For one your inventory is 
 now shared. Rather then upgrading your inventory as you did in Resident Evil 4, you now have a 
 standard twelve slot inventory. Your partner has one of the same size and you have to swap items 
 between the two of you. Did I mention all of this is done on the fly without stopping gameplay? 
 It actually works remarkably well and once you get used to this system it really helps add tension 
 to the game and I am glad the team decided to put this feature in. Other cooperative play features 
 include just various co-op events which you must have a partner to do. Like for instance the two 
 of you pushing a bin out of the way. I sort of wish that this game had moments where it was just 
 Chris Redfield as sometimes Sheva doesn't do anything; especially in boss battles. It's not a big 
 deal but I feel that moments alone would have benefited the game by ramping up the level of tension 
 and also allowing for scarier situations and confrontations. Speaking of Sheva, yes her AI can 
 get in the way but it isn't often. Sometimes I felt like beating her, but minutes later I might 
 love her because of her sniping abilities for instance. It's a real love/hate relationship which 
 fortunately stays in the 'love' aspect long enough for me to say that she is a good addition to 
 the game overall.
  
  Another part of the gameplay is collectables which are strewn throughout the game. There are collectable 
 jewels which you trade in for money. This money is then used to buy weapons or better yet upgrade 
 a weapon which in turn gets you new weapons to upgrade and gain infinite ammo for. There are also 
 numerous BSAA emblems which are easy to find with a guide. After getting all of those and some 
 other requirements you can also unlock figurines which are actually pretty neat. These collectables 
 may not sound exciting but I must say, collecting infinite ammo weapons is awesome and they allow 
 for a lot of replay value. Going through the game with an infinite ammo rocket launcher is just, 
 appealing, is it not?
  
  The last part of the gameplay is the online component which is quite well done. The cooperative 
 play though has some notable weaknesses which I feel are a shame. For one if you enter someone's 
 co-op game, whatever progress you make in that game saves over your progress. For instance let's 
 say you want to help a friend out while he is at chapter 1-2 and you are at 5-3; if you choose 
 to help him and advance to chapter 3-1, this progress will save over your game. Granted, you can 
 restart your campaign at the beginning of your chapter but come on, was multiple saves too much 
 to ask for? Also the co-op isn't drop in and drop out, your friend can only join at the beginning 
 of the chapter. This is kind of a downer if you need a friend right away for one point in the game. 
 The co-op is still enjoyable though and it's good times with a friend. I just feel this issues 
 bog it down a bit more then they should have.
  
  The Mercenaries mode though is excellent and it's a lot of fun. Essentially it's just you and a 
 friend if you choose in a certain level killing all the enemies the game throws at you with a periodic 
 mini-boss and boss to fight. You can unlock new characters and new levels by earning higher rankings 
 and let me tell you I've done this for hours. Mercenaries is a blast and it is especially fun when 
 playing online with a friend.
  
  All in all Resident Evil 5 has great gameplay and this is only complemented by the games superb 
 presentation and structure. The game is only about 10 hours long on the first play through but 
 it's very easy to go back and play. The game is also well structured with the perfect amount of 
 enemies. Most importantly though are the boss battles which are to say the least epic. They come 
 at the right moments and they are the sources of the greatest tension. They can be a bit easy though 
 since they have obvious weak points but in the end they are all a ton of fun and Capcom really 
 managed to put some neat design into these confrontations. The game also has some really great 
 set-piece confrontations which will please series veterans. They are complemented by superb voice 
 acting and music which both help to make these moments seem 'real'. They are actually sort of emotional 
 and I really enjoyed these moments the most in the game. 
  
  Resident Evil 5 also a great looking game, in fact it could rival some of the 'graphics kings' 
 out there. The game has great texture work and character models. These character models are actually 
 some of the best I've seen and they are well animated and lifelike (albeit with huge biceps) . The 
 lighting is also great and all the environments have great variety. Sometimes I just had to stop 
 to admire what was around me; it's amazing what Capcom did. The cinematics are also well shot as 
 I said before. In fact the cinematics with quicktime events look almost the same as the CGI ones 
 and that is an amazing feat. My only complaint is the load times that perforate the beginning of 
 the game but they seem to dissipate later on in the experience and when you install the game, load 
 times are practically none existent.
  
  The game also sounds great. The voice acting is actually superb and though the dialogue is cheesy, 
 it's enjoyable and reminiscent of the series. All the characters have a noticeable voice and this 
 helps to make them all memorable even though some had very small roles. The game's score is outstanding 
 and it comes in at all the right moments. It helps to add both emotion and tension in the game 
 and it's well used and well done as a whole. Though some sound effects are rehashed, it's ultimately 
 a small issue as Capcom added in a slew of new sound effects which make you almost forget the fact 
 that you might have heard some of these four years ago. 
  
  In the end Resident Evil 5 is a game that is nothing but superb. It's presented well, it looks 
 amazing, it sounds excellent, it has a faithful story which will please fans of the series, and 
 it's a great action game in its own right. On one hand, there are some inherent flaws with the 
 cooperative experience and some other smaller design flaws but the positives of this game far outweigh 
 the negatives. Anyone looking for a strong single player experience, a rarity these days, should 
 look to try out this game. Resident Evil 5 may not be the series best, but it is definitely one 
 of the strongest.
  
  The Good: Looks amazing, sounds great, has a great cast of characters, simple but faithful plot 
 which helps tie things up, plays well considering this style was first used four years ago, great 
 variety in the enemies, great action set pieces, good amount of tension created, enjoyable new 
 inventory system, fun to play with a friend, great replay value, mercenaries mode is a blast.
 
  
  The Bad: Some cooperative play issues, some sound effects are rehash, Sheva can get in the way 
 at times, frequent loading in the beginning is a bit odd, minor design quirks.
  
  The Ugly: While some may be turned off by it, Resident Evil 5 is a superb continuation of the series 
 which will please both fans and newcomers to the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazee_Good
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Hey folks, its finally here, Resident evil 5 the newest installment in Capcom's hit game franchise. 
 Resident Evil is a great game for any fan of the series and even people who are new to the series. 
 The sub-mersive gameplay will keep you in your seat begging for more. What's even better is that 
 due to the game's file library you can learn things about previous games for a nice backround and 
 learn even more indepth about the present game. Now since I don't want to spoil the game for you 
 folks out there I will just give a few little facts.
  Resident Evil 5 is set in 2009 Africa with you playing as the protaginist, Chris Redfield, a survior 
 of Racoon City. The game starts with Chris, now a BSAA agent, arriving in Africa and meeting his 
 African contact, Sheva Alomar. The protaginists gear up and undertake their mission, to find Ricardo 
 Irving, a terrorist with a plenty annoying voice. You start through the seemingly normal town only 
 to uncover the truth about this curious little village. There will also be two characters from 
 previous games.
  The bad parts of this game are the shooting style, you can't run when you shoot. The only other 
 problem i have this game is the cheesy, 'C' class, ending.
  My conclusion is that the game is very good and very well made. I believe that if you like video 
 games you will like this game, as well as any person who is new to gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rustman911
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I play this game in about 30 to 45 minute burst at a time. The reason I do this is b/c the game 
 is very short, according to my friend who beat it in two runs, totaling around 8 hours of playing.
 
  
  The graphics are absolutely amazing on it and the game play is good.
  
  The only thing I do not like about this game is the fact that you cannot move while aiming or performing 
 a melee attack.
  
  Other than that one little quirk, the game is right on par to being in the fun category!
  
 
  There isn't much more for me to say but I have to have at least 100 words here in order to submit 
 this, haha!
  
  I now need at least 800 characters to submit this. Geez, I can't just type up a quick, easy to 
 read, review for people? Let me check now how many I have..... hold up everyone. If I return to 
 type more then that means that I did not have enough, but if this is the last paragraph you see 
 then I passed requirements to submit my review :-P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLeggs
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  I'm new to the Resident Evil games and I was very surprised. I've seen other individuals playing 
 the RE series but I was never interested. I decided to pick this one up and give it a try. Even 
 though this latest version is more action based that the previous versions, it is still an exciting 
 game to play. Its a interesting story and the graphics are great. I'm not use to the controls so 
 it can get a bit challenging for a newbie like me. I'm only a few chapters into the game but I 
 can't wait to continue and see how the story goes. For me, its better to play this game in coop 
 mode instead of with just the AI character. The game get frustrating when your AI character shoots 
 at you instead of at the zombies. Overall I would recommend this to anyone whether they play it 
 by themselves or with someone. Since I've been playing this game, it makes me want to get all of 
 the R. E. games. Maybe if I play the series backwards I won't get as disappointed like some players. 
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polkanator
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was an incredible game in many ways. It was different from it's predecessors and 
 revolutionized the way we put the smack on zombies, and did it right. The game created an atmosphere 
 so stirring that I had to take a few days off between sessions to calm down (it's the chanting. 
 Damn those monks!)
  
  RE5 repeated the same game, and changed the one thing we always wanted: a compliment ally who could 
 not only defend herself, but kick ass in their own right. I suppose most of us wondered why Claire 
 and Leon kept splitting up when they were facing insurmountable odds, or why the president's daughter 
 couldn't be given a handgun to defend herself from monks who wanted to drag her off to her death, 
 but now we finally aren't going into it alone (but, why does Chris, a seasoned veteran go into 
 a battle with just a half-assed handgun and 30 spare rounds? You'd think he'd have learned, but 
 clearly he just spent his time at the gym) .
  
  But here's the problem with having an ally: it was too easy with her! She never - ever missed a 
 single shot, so a perfect candidate for the rifle or machine gun! She was wiry, and able to avoid 
 enemies, and often discovered crates or items I would have overlooked had I been walking any faster. 
 And unlike all the other games, this was pure action: at no time was there any tension. I never 
 had the fear of wondering what was behind me, because she always knew, and always watched my back. 
 Great partner, bad game ploy for Resident Evil games where the horror and survival was taken out 
 the atmosphere, and all I was left with was an action game. 
  
  That's not to say it was a bad game. It looked beautiful, it's controls were tight and it was a 
 lot of fun. But it was no Resident Evil game. It was also over too soon. I played the game on normal 
 and finished it in 12 hours. A weekend! The last time that happened was back on the SNES. RE4 took 
 much longer, and the other games had a good re-play with tweaking the experience by playing another 
 character. In RE5, one you beat the game you can go through a second time, but the story doesn't 
 change, nor does the path, the bosses, nothing. You might as well be doing it all over again.
 
  
  Overall, this is a great game, but don't expect to get your money's worth. It's best to wait until 
 it drops from $70.00 or, do yourself a favor and make it a week rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  with what the next gen gaming can offer resident evil 5 takes the series to a complete new high 
 which reminds us a lot about resident evil 4 but still stands as an outstanding achievement on 
 its own. co-op play is solid fun so is the single player mode. some real amazing visuals coupled 
 with solid tactical action gameplay and fantastic boss battles, this one takes the feeling of horror 
 to a different perspective. real time action and amazing cut scenes gives the feeling of immersing 
 in the very game so much that it brings back to what was lost in gaming recently-a good immersive 
 storyline and the want to be glued to your seat. with some real big names coming in gaming recently 
 with hifi visuals but no real immersiveness this one proves it all wrong. in short re 5 is interesting, has 
 outstanding gameplay, amazing visuals, great storyline and truly is the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  +5 points for mind-blowing co-op. This is the game that a co-op lover like myself has been pining 
 for. Not only does this game include co-op, IT IS CO-OP. Anyone who has played anyone previous 
 RE games will undoubtedly love the masterpiece that Capcom put together; however, with co-op, the 
 game takes on a whole new life. It's no longer just about you, and your survival against waves 
 of zombies  it's about the TEAM. The use of a partner brings a whole new element of fear to the 
 R. E. franchise. If you think hordes of killer zombies are scary, wait till they begin chasing your 
 partner while you stand helplessly yards away screaming at them as you would the movie screen during 
 a horror film. But beyond that, a partner redefines the way you play this game. You begin to play 
 unselfishly and work harder to protect your partner than to protect yourself. This is a formula 
 that Valve started with Left for Dead, but one that's been perfected and made much more intimate 
 with RE5. 
  
  +3 points for absolutely brilliant gameplay. The gameplay is very polished, and just feels right 
 in your hands. Aiming feels spot on, never feeling cheap, but never feeling like a 'gimme' at the 
 same time. Every headshot feels like you've earned it. Cover is implemented into this game, but 
 used scarcely enough that it doesn't take away from the fear and tension of being in the open that 
 makes this game so great. But with all its accolades, RE5 still receives a demerit for not allowing 
 players to walk and shoot at the same time. While it does add to the tension of the moment, it 
 feels unnatural and, ultimately, comes off as a cheap way of upping the difficulty.
  
  -1 points for a piecemeal story. One of my few gripes about this game is the lack of cohesive and 
 relevant story. The Resident Evil cannon is richly filled with material, none of which makes its 
 way into this game. What you are left with is the typical "bad-guy-  
 scenario. In addition, seeing zombies in the later levels not only carrying weapons, but using 
 cover was absolutely absurd to me, and just felt out of place.
  
  +1 for best graphics on the 360. This game is as technically proficient of a game as you will find. 
 The environments each look diverse and it never feels like you're going through the same area twice. 
 The Chris and Sheva characters, as well as the rest of the games friends and foes, look almost 
 lifelike. The zombiefied enemies and bosses featured in the game are some of the scariest and most 
 disgusting abominations in a game to date. The cutscenes are on par with Metal Gear, which in my 
 book is the highest of compliments. 
  
  +1 for solid sound design. Sound is a great way of heightening the fear and intensifying the moment. 
 To that end, Capcom achieves the highest marks, making every zombie encounter feel breathtaking 
 and every boss battle feel like humanity rides on its outcome.
  
  + .5 for replayability. Whether you are playing through again as Chris Redfield's partner Sheva, 
 Playing to upgrade you weapons and abilities, or playing a nice game of mercenaries, this game 
 has so much content that you will assuredly play through at least twice.
  
  Resident Evil 5 has managed to change the perception of the survival horror genre from a First 
 Person Shooter, to a co-op game that favors tactical thinking and working together over emptying 
 a clip and running for your life. While many fans will complain about the games "departure" from 
 the typical survival horror game, Resident Evil 5 is a solid game and a terrific play for both 
 you and a friend.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexruss2007
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  After 13 years and 7 main entries in the series, Resident Evil finally draws to a close. The question 
 that needs to be asked is does it end with a whimper, or a grand finale? 
  
  Taking place in 2009, several years after Chris Redfield and Jill Valentine stormed the last Umbrella 
 stronghold in southern Russia, Chris returns to the scene as he hunts down known terrorist Ricardo 
 Irving alongside his new partner, Sheva Alomar. I won't reveal too much, as a lot has already been 
 said by other reviewers, however what I will say is that the ending to the saga is something that 
 you won't want anyone to spoil for you, especially if you've been waiting for this installment 
 since the end of RE4. 
  
  Gameplay is always a debated topic amongst games. The new edition is co-op play in the main story, 
 both on and offline. Many will find the feature of a second character strange, especially since 
 Resident Evil was always about finding yourself alone in impossible situations with very little 
 to defend yourself with. The good news is that Sheva allows a nice amount of variety in how you 
 must play. Whether it's sniping from afar as she takes out enemies up close, or assisting you in 
 moving a particularly large wooden crate, she rarely becomes a pain and if you're playing with 
 a friend then you will more than likely see co-op as a welcome addition. 
  
  With the control scheme in this game, it's a case of if you still enjoy the original versions of 
 Resident Evil 4 then you will love this. For those that don't like the idea of standing still to 
 aim and shoot, I urge you to at least give it a few hours before making a final decision. The problem 
 is that RE5 doesn't do anything ground-breaking in terms of how it plays; it retains the interactive 
 cutscenes from it's Spanish-located predecessor, and leans towards frantic action over horror, 
 but it doesn't give anything new to the genre. However, the action is fast and as a result - for 
 me at least - it never bothered me having to stop to fight. I've played RE since the beginning 
 and it really is more like a little tribute to the original game than a cheap shot at modern day 
 gaming. 
  
  The amount of weapons in games are constantly expanding, and RE5 is rolling with the times in this 
 area. Multiple variations of handguns, SMGs and shotguns are the basic artillery that you will 
 find yourself handling in the opening chapters of the game, with more firearms coming to your disposal 
 as you continue your journey. 
  
  Graphically it's hard to think of anything that can surpass the visual delight that is RE5. The 
 sun beaming down onto the small wooden huts of an African village, the glow of a flame bouncing 
 around an other-wise dark cave, the locations look incredible. The artistic design is something 
 that truly should be praised. The appearance of everything in the game shows that the past 4 years 
 have been a time for dedication from those working at the Capcom studios. In an era where graphics 
 are constantly improving to push the abilities of HD to its full potential, it's very satisfying 
 to know that this truly may be the best available for both PS3 and 360. 
  
  The poorly acted dialogue that has existed throughout the Resident Evil series remains in the last 
 installment, though less recognisable than before. Cliches can still be found left, right and center, 
 but again it's something that adds a little bit of character and personality, and has helped make 
 RE what it is all these years. The sound effects are incredible, particularly when it comes to 
 screams and shouts from the rapidly approaching enemies, and what music does exist in the game 
 has been carefully chosen to suit the location around you. 
  
  The standard Majinis you will face share a lot in common with their Ganado counterparts, but whilst 
 they may be the majority of enemies you face they vary in size, strength and weaponry. In addition 
 to the other new enemies that ambush you along the way, a few favourites from past games make an 
 appearance, but much like the plot, should be left to experience. Needless to say they keep the 
 action varied and pacy. 
  
  RE5 is seen as a big departure from the series in two main areas: the first being that a lot is 
 set during the day, with the sun bearing down upon you. The second being that it isn't generally 
 terrifying. However, before you jump to any negative conclusions, the daytime aspects are actually 
 used to particular effect. There are still dark caves and sewers, typical locations from past games, 
 but the use of day allows for good contrast so that you can truly appreciate each new locale. With 
 regards to the fear factor, I honestly never found RE4 to be particularly frightening, so to me 
 it's not a huge departure from the game I loved 4 years ago. Several moments will have you jumping 
 out of your skin as you try to run for your life from... well to say what would be spoiling a particularly 
 excellent moment in the game. I'll just say that RE5 still has some spine-tingling moments, and 
 the fact it isn't as scary as the original RE simply shows how the series has evolved from a survival 
 horror to an action horror genre. 
  
  Whilst a large handful of people will play the demo and decide against playing the finished version, 
 I recommend at least experiencing the game for a few hours. Resident Evil 5 is more than willing 
 to reward long time fans of a much beloved videogame series. After the 12-20+ hour story (depending 
 on your difficulty) , a wealth of extras - that won't be disclosed here to prevent spoiling anything 
 - open up for you to play. If you have enjoyed the series as long as I have, it's my belief you 
 will find peace when you finally bring the decade-long plot to a conclusion. 
  
  In answer to my original question, Resident Evil 5 goes out with a loud, defiant, and very grand 
 finale, and will be remembered for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alan1224
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  Sure this game is not going to seem very likable at first, but hey, once again it's Resident Evil. 
 I really like it more now, than when I first started playing it. The controls take a little getting 
 used to, but there is also the option to change it to the Resident Evil 4's controller scheme, 
 If that works better for you. I found that changing the controller scheme to the Resident Evil 
 4's controller scheme, works out really well with the 360 controller. This game is somewhat of 
 a let down, the first time playing into it. But it get's Hellishly and Freakishly better towards 
 the end. Also, it really takes some getting used too. I think for the first time, being, that the 
 Resident Evil franchise has never been released on any other console, other than Nintendo's, Playstation's, 
 or Sega's Dreamcast. It's a damn good one for Microsoft's Console. And again Microsoft has another 
 winner on their hands to brag about. I think it's really good, once you customize the game's controller 
 scheme to match your taste's, and strategize your encounters with the zombie Horde. I will love 
 this game as much as Resident Evil 4, if not more. I love you Capcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kabagami
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  Sure this game is not going to seem very likable at first, but hey, once again it's Resident Evil. 
 I really like it more now, than when I first started playing it. The controls take a little getting 
 used to, but there is also the option to change it to the Resident Evil 4's controller scheme, 
 If that works better for you. I found that changing the controller scheme to the Resident Evil 
 4's controller scheme, works out really well with the 360 controller. This game is somewhat of 
 a let down, the first time playing into it. But it get's Hellishly and Freakishly better towards 
 the end. Also, it really takes some getting used too. I think for the first time, being, that the 
 Resident Evil franchise has never been released on any other console, other than Nintendo's, Playstation's, 
 or Sega's Dreamcast. It's a damn good one for Microsoft's Console. And again Microsoft has another 
 winner on their hands to brag about. I think it's really good, once you customize the game's controller 
 scheme to match your taste's, and strategize your encounters with the zombie Horde. I will love 
 this game as much as Resident Evil 4, if not more. I love you Capcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_specialist4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:33 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 set the bar pretty high in 2005 so it is a hard act to follow for Capcom. But they 
 pulled it off even though they made us wait almost 4 years for Resident Evil 5 they made a visually 
 stunning and all around fun game. The combat system in RE 4 which was the basis for so many of 
 this gens great games (i. e. Gears Of War) is back in RE 5 and it hasnt suffered any with the 360 
 controls. Everything flows smoothly and even if you haven't used the "stop and pop" combat style 
 in Resident Evil 4 it can be adapted quickly and adds tension to the game. The weapons are great 
 with basic weapons to off the wall weapons like a triple barreled shotgun. Capcom took the Devil 
 May Cry boss method into this game by putting more and bigger boss fights which take some though 
 to get through. Making Wesker the final boss was great for series junkies and the final fight which 
 is similar to the Krauser knife fight in RE 4 just tops off the game in a great way. 
  Overall this was an excellent game it definitly could have been longer but i guess all games in 
 this gen could be, either way the game rocked if you dont have it.... GET IT NOW!!!! go to your 
 local game store and buy it then play it until you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:01 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * Mercs mode offers some replayability
  * Boss battles are fun
  * Shooting Zombies/Las Plagas/Whateveryoucallthem is fun, satisfying.
  * Co-op turns a good time 
 into a great one.
  
  
  Cons
  
  * Can't move and shoot.
  * Sheva isn't really an interesting character.
  * Laser Sight sucks.
  
  I'm not going to 
 pretend I know the first thing about Resident Evil.
  I played #4 a bit and enjoyed it well enough.
  I've seen the movies and while I know they take 
 liberties with the plot, I still quite enjoy them for what they are. But the games never really 
 hooked me.
  
  A good way to grab my interests though is to add co-op into it and that's what Capcom did and for 
 the first time ever, I really like a Resident Evil game.
  
  As with 4, the bad guys you fight are not Zombies - but Las Plagas - these guys infected with these 
 parasite doflickys. They still serve as cannon fodder, much like the Zombies.
  But these folk won't just shamble toward you and try to nibble on your brain.
  They'll run at 
 you, often armed - shoot fire arrows at you - sometimes even use guns which certainly makes them 
 more difficult to tackle then their Zombie cousins.
  
  You won't just be fighting with them though, you'll also be doing battle with the controls.
  
 I don't give a damn what RE purists say, it would be better if you could run while you gun.
  If I were getting chased by these parasite monster things, I wouldn't be standing their while I'm 
 shooting as a horde of them close in on me, I'd be running for the hills taking potshots whenever 
 I could.
  
  If we were still dealing with Zombies I'd understand the decision to not allow the player to move 
 while shooting. Zombies are slow and if the player could shoot and run at the same time it would 
 make it perhaps too easy as you could just circle around them, shooting them, killing them and 
 they likely wouldn't get a hit in.
  
  But Las Plagas are more plentiful then the Zombies. There can be dozens of them chasing you at 
 a time. And again, most of them are armed. They would still pose a threat even if you could run 
 and gun. And with ammo not being as plentiful as a strict action game, half the time you'll be 
 running, looking for ammo anyway. I don't know. Just doesn't make sense for them to bind the player 
 to the ground with this brand of foe. Not being able to move whilst you shoot is not a deal breaker 
 or anything, but being able too would improve my enjoyment just that little bit extra.
  
  Still on the combat sometimes hitting far off enemies can be a pain.
  All weapons with the exception 
 of I guess the sniper rifle which uses a scope are laser sighted.
  Close up this works a charm, but it's hard to see your little dot off in the distance if you're 
 in a firefight. You can generally work your way closer, perhaps letting your co-op partner take 
 some of the heat whilst you run in a bit - but in situations where it'd be wiser to sit back well, 
 laser sight sucks.
  
  The campaign doesn't last especially long on normal, at least not with a semi-decent co-op partner. 
 If you're playing co-op it might be wise to turn up the difficulty, otherwise you could probably 
 blow through it in 8-10 hours.
  
  Mercs mode offers some replayability, challenging you and a partner if you've got one to survive 
 as long as you can, scoring points by killing bad guys and increasing the time limit and thus the 
 amount of time you have to score points by kicking in these glowy columns.
  You can also pick up hour glasses that increase the score on your combos.
  It's pretty damned 
 hard to actually do well in Mercs, but when you do it's quite satisfying.
  
  Visually the game looks stunning. The environments are great.
  The main characters are modelled 
 well, the enemies I didn't really pay much mind because I was too busy shooting them - but I doubt 
 they're terrible.
  Sounds good. Sheva's voice grates on me after a while, but I doubt many people will mind it as 
 much as I. I'm just easily annoyed I guess.
  
  Anyway. It's a great game. I had a lot of fun with it.
  If you loved RE4 then this is a lot like 
 that, but with co-op - which in my book makes it a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DRAGONslayer5p9
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Where to start with this game? Well first of all its definatly the best game i have ever played 
 in my entire life.! The game play is outstanding. one of the best things is the fact that there 
 is coopertave play, so if you are new to the game you dont have to worry. i know its great because 
 ive already been playing for around 40 hours. the mercinaries mode has a good variety of weapons 
 cool how you can get unlimeted ammo for it. also there will be a battle mode coming out soon to 
 make online play even better. over all this game deserves a 10, allthough there are a couple things 
 that could be better, but there all minor mistakes, like the guns should onl be called hand gun 
 and blak tail, not vz61 and stuff like that its too confusing. that is all i can really think of, 
 if you never played a re game before this is a good one to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was probably the best game in the series. Yeah, it's ok shooting those zombies 
 that slowly stroll towards you, but it was time for a change and Capcom knew what to do. They nailed 
 it perfectly, delivering those mad crazy villagers that literally did anything to get to you. Soon 
 everybody loved Resident Evil 4 and it was obvious that a sequel was on it's way...
  
  5 years down the line and here is the long-awaited Resident Evil 5, but you'll notice as soon as 
 you begin walking around that it resembles the 4th game so much. This isn't a problem, it's great 
 for fans of the 4th Resident Evil to know the controller straight away and get playing without 
 any problems, but they've even left in the whole 'stop and aim' feature, which can be a pain in 
 the behind at times.
  
  The story isn't that much different from the 4th game in the fact that the whole of Africa gets 
 infected with the T-Virus and everyone starts going crazy and begin killing anything that gets 
 in their way. It's fun, oh it's fun when it comes to you and your team-mate fighting off hordes 
 of these buggers while waiting for a chopper to help you out. This time around however, you play 
 as Chris Redfield... the guy from the 1st game, remember? His objective is the find out more about 
 this virus and stop it. And without spoiling the story, you're going to be seeing some old characters 
 ;-) .
  
  The gameplay is what makes you think that this game is no more than an improved graphical version 
 of the 4th installment, this is due to... well basically the same controls. The game itself is 
 obviously different, you're set in a whole different part of the world and the enemies are very 
 different... oh, and of course it's co-op this time round. But the core game just feels like Resident 
 Evil 4 HD, that's not a bad thing, the game itself is just brilliant. However, you can see that 
 Capcom didn't want to experiment and change some things around in case hardcore fans got a little 
 annoyed.
  
  Resident Evil 5 is a brilliant game, no doubt, even if it does have some annoying parts (mostly 
 concering Sheva's AI) , but it's a load of fun, especially with a mate. The visuals are amazing 
 and bound to make you glued to the screen... it's just a great game and definately worth picking 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spgmaple
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  In 2005, Resident Evil 4 was released for the Nintendo Gamecube. Taking the series in an entirely 
 new direction, it introduced concepts that have provided the groundwork for many of today's highest 
 grossing games. Now, 4 years later, Resident Evil 5 has arrived. Despite a somewhat dated control 
 scheme and some derivative enemies, RE5 is worth playing, if only to experience the beautifully 
 crafted boss battles and technically stunning graphics.
  
  Graphics:
  Resident Evil 5 is the best looking game on any console. Barring Crysis, I have not seen a more 
 technically impressive game released, on any console. Every texture is modeled perfectly, but despite 
 that aspect of the graphics, what makes them so impressive is the lighting. The stark contrast 
 between light and dark works wonders for the games immersion and realism. Despite this, there are 
 some objects that feel like they should be effected by your interactions with them, but this is 
 a small blemish on an otherwise stunning technical achievement. However, where the game truly shines 
 technically is in the pre-rendered cinematics. They are made using the in-game engine, and while 
 the voice acting is spotty, they are a treat to behold. The camera angles work to highlight the 
 games technically impressive graphics, and immerse you in the game in a way nearly as impressive 
 as many high-budget Hollywood movies. From the highly polished cinematics to the beautiful in-game 
 environments and characters, RE5 is a technical feat worthy of the highest accolades.
  
  Score: 9.5
  Summary: Despite some limited environmental interactions, great lighting and beautiful 
 texture work combine to create the most beautiful game on any console.
  
  
  Audio:
  The audio in Resident Evil 5 is a mixed bag. On one side, the guns and explosions sound very good, 
 giving them a heavy, meaty feel that suits the game well. However, the trademark dodgy voice-acting 
 that the Resident Evil series has been known for returns in full force. Chris is your everyday 
 manly-man, while Sheva is the stereotypical badass-action-girl, and while these stereotypes are 
 fine, many of the lines seem forced and overly melodramatic, wheras at other times the characters 
 come off as stoic and nonchalant. Without spoiling any of the games bosses and enemies, the voice 
 acting is, again, a mixed bag, varying from decently characterized evil-doers to the corny, cheesy 
 bosses series fans have come to expect.
  
  Score: 8
  Summary: Good effects and weapon sounds, however, the game's audio package is marred by typical 
 Resident Evil spotty voice-acting.
  
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where Resident Evil 5 truly becomes hit-or-miss. While Resident Evil 4 introduced revolutionary 
 changes to the third-person action genre, Resident Evil 5 seems somewhat tentative in comparison. 
 While it does not regress on any of the advances in RE4, it does not expand upon them either. This 
 would have been more palatable had RE5 been released only a year or two following RE4, but in the 
 series' 4 year absence, games have advanced upon the strides made in RE4, and this results in RE5 
 feeling somewhat dated in comparison. The game sticks to its stand-and-fire mechanics, and they 
 are fairly successful in the game. However, when this becomes to feel dodgy is once you advance 
 later into the game and the game begins force-feeding you cover sections. Compared to the advances 
 made by games like Gears of War, (yes, I know that GOW did not invent cover-systems, but it revolutionized 
 them) , and Rainbow-Six: Vegas (1-2) , the cover system in RE5 feels sticky and un-intuitive in comparison. 
 The game simply does not achieve the flow that these titles achieved, and suffers for it. Cover 
 is limited only to spots where the designers felt you needed to take cover, and thus ends up feeling 
 like a contrived excuse to join in on the "new" fad. This would not have been an issue had taking 
 cover merely been an option, a fall-back if you will. However, if it is your first play through, 
 some of the enemies you face will end up forcing you into using the mechanic. However, if you end 
 up finishing the game and go back for a second, (or third, or forth) play-through, with upgraded 
 and unlocked weapons, this becomes less of an issue. Having unlocked the Hydra triple-barreled 
 shotgun, or the trademark "hand-cannon" (S&W M500 Magnum) , cover becomes less needed, due to the 
 sheer amount of fire-power at your disposal. 
  
  This brings me to the biggest hit-or-miss aspect of the game. It is short, beaten on the first 
 play-through in somewhere between 7-12 hours. However, this is not the end of the experience. Having 
 beaten the game once, you will unlock new costumes, game-filters, and, most importantly, mercenaries 
 mode, a score-based time-trial mode that is surprisingly addictive in the same way that Gears of 
 War's horde mode is. Another big draw is that, if you have fully upgraded a weapon, you are then 
 able to use points accrued by beating the game, completing challenges, shooting emblems, and the 
 like to buy infinite ammo for the gun. Also, many of the weapons, when fully upgraded, allow for 
 the purchase of even more powerful weapons, which can in turn be upgraded. This lends credibility 
 to the games insanely difficult "Pro" difficulty level, which nearly requires a fully upgraded 
 hydra just for survival. In short, RE5 is a game that is meant to be played multiple times, and 
 the addictive mercenaries mode lends it even more replay-value.
  
  Score: 8.5
  Summary: A somewhat dated control scheme holds back an otherwise great game. Though short, the 
 main campaign can be re-played at higher difficulty levels, and mercenaries mode and various other 
 unlockables make this a highly re-playable game.
  
  Scores:
  Graphics: 9.5
  Audio: 8
  Gameplay: 8.5
  
  Overall: 8.5
  
  Summary: Despite feeling somewhat dated, Resident Evil 
 5 is a beautifully polished game with some memorable boss fights and sometimes hit-or-miss controls. 
 It may not be a huge leap forwards, but it certainly is not a step backwards either, and is a must 
 for fans of the previous game, and highly recommended for action-shooter fans in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beavisbond
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 as we all know took a huge leap from it's previous games in the series. Mostly 
 being as the camera follows you now (more like a 3rd person shooter style) and the story had a 
 big change to (which you are not fighting zombies anymore) ! Resident Evil 5 has done that concept 
 again. I remember hearing about this game back in late '05 and all I saw for quite a long time 
 was just a couple of screenshots and a short teaser trailer. Well that don't mean s**t! Any game 
 company can do that and never even release the game. But seeing as it was another Resident Evil 
 game it should come out but I figure it would be at least a couple years that it will. Well 4 years 
 after RE4 it finally is released for the Xbox 360 and PS3. I can tell you that it was well worth 
 the wait! The story in the game is great. It brings back Chris Redfield and long-time nemesis Albert 
 Wesker both since the very first Resident Evil game in 1996! The graphics in the game is outstanding. 
 It reminds me of MGS4 graphics. Maybe it's because there is a lot of daylight that your fighting 
 in. Usually if there is more lighting in the game the less scary it is, so RE5 kind'a cuts away 
 from it's horror theme as it always has. But either way, the action in the game is great. Many 
 gunfights and lot's of blood and gore! Overall this is a great game to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbailey793
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  I got this game as a gift and was excited to start with it. Never gotten into the series before 
 but have always heard good things about it. Load up was great and looked beautiful, story line 
 was present and characters were introduced well.
  
  Then the problems started. . . wait I have to hold a button to run?!? Am I playing on a SNES again? 
 I have 2 analog control sticks! WTH?!? ok, ok let's try and kill stuff. Aim, shoot, and strafe, 
 shoot some more. What I can't move and shoot!? errr guess it's back to Fallout 3 Maybe these are 
 series relics "Just the way the game is played" but come-on, really? Even Mario on the N64 didn't 
 need a run button.
  
  Is it supposed to add suspense? or frustration? How about this: If you die in an area and have 
 to start it over why not make the zombies do something different? Hide in different spots, use 
 different tactics. something
  
  Maybe I'll give it another shot, it was a gift but I'l most likely be bringing this one back and 
 getting something else. All the graphics and stroy-line in the world cannot make ou for poor control. 
 
  My recomendation: Dead Space and Fallout3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_step
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  A great and excellent game. 
  
  The gameplay is much like its older version RE4 which is very good including a few minor tweaks 
 in controls. 
  
  The visuals are vastly improved truly giving each character a distinct and personalized look. On 
 another note, the visuals also improve the character interactions where mere glances speak volumes.
 
  
  The sound is good if not fully appreciated / utilized. Though in certain cases the music truly 
 puts you on the edge of your seat. 
  
  The multiplayer is as good as it can be with the co-op and easy join in sessions. 
  
  The replay 
 value is very high, players who have enjoyed the first play through will replay the game countless 
 time in order to achieve the unlockables. 
  
  The story and personal exchange between characters leaves a few details to be desired. The story 
 feels like it is rushed and motives suddenly appear out of thin air. There is obvious back story 
 that old players will notice but be questioning throughout the entire game. Wesker's ultimate motivation 
 seems curious if not short of all the puppeteering he has been doing throughout the last games. 
 Not to mention Tricell and his affiliation with it. No doubt these clues left behind are part of 
 the sixth installment. 
  
  A mention to the advertisers, "Fear you won't forget" isn't a very accurate slogan for the game, 
 an unfortunate but true aspect, the fear in this game is limited at best to boos but no real scare 
 or fearful moment. 
  
  A good game but for the old fans leaves something to be desired still even with the immense satisfaction. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchellmac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 9:18 am PT
Review:  First off, loading screen is so fast that it was pointless putting the history of resident evil 
 there. Unless your reading speed was ridiculous. Maybe bring back the old school watching the door 
 open for loads on some doors and long ladders possibly. I also liked how when your trying to shoot 
 something or someone and your a. i. helps out they just waste their bullets on you instead... that 
 got really annoying and if you don't believe that that happens... turn your attack reaction to yes 
 and you'll see how annoying it gets. Chainsaw guys don't cut your head off like resident evil 4 
 which is weird. Maybe Wesker was meant to look like the tyrant of course but his monster was so 
 lame and for what he has become you would think he would be a behemoth! Compared to all the other 
 games this one was probably the shortest fast game out of the series! I love playing it though, 
 wasn't really scary like the other series either.... fix it! and no more team games. Resident evil 
 1 remake was perfect and i think is still awesome, graphics are amazing and scary and not so easy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckJazz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 7:11 am PT
Review:  I like this game. It has enough of the good "stuff" from Resident Evil 4 to make it playable and 
 enjoyable for the most part. Some outstanding cutscenes, great voice over, etc. The menu system 
 took a bit of getting used to, but OK.
  Here's why it gets a 7.5 from me instad of an 8.5 or 9.
  
  The (expletive deleted) mother-grabbing, 
 bastardly stupid, NON-fight with Wesker near the end. After two days of some very inventive combat, 
 trying all sorts of crapola to beat the wanker, I was up a stump.
  
  I resorted to going online and finding a guide (I abhorr having to do this) to learn the way past 
 him. Of all the jackass things! 
  
  Do NOTHING but run away for 7 minutes?!?!? 
  
  I felt so angry, cheated, and stupid, that I no longer have any desire to finish the game. I was 
 looking forward to replaying and unlocking stuff, but that stupid chapter turned me so badly off, 
 that I went back to Call of Duty WAW and Mario Kart for my limited video game entertainment time.
 
  
  RE5 could and should have been better. A. I. for Sheva should have included her getting out of the 
 damn way! And I would have loved to play this game solo. Both as her, and Chris. 
  
  To be fair, RE4 was a hard act to top. But I think that the potential was there in RE5 to at least 
 equal 4.
  
  A good game. With an annoying snot-ball episode that killed it for me.
  -z- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ouji-San
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:49 am PT
Review:  First off.. This was stated that it was a Horror game. Althoough it plays and feels like a shooter 
 this can feel horror-ish due to enviroments and situation.
  
  Resident Evil 5 takes place in Africa in a Area known as Kijuju (fictional Not Real I think its 
 around Nigera and Camaroon areas) .
  
  Having said this you are Fighting in africa having said that Its just a game and Not a Racial thing 
 about killing africas as its shows there are arabs and White people in the game being killed by 
 you and your African Partner..
  
  Resident evil 5 plays out great, The over the shoulder Gameplay implemented from/since Resident 
 Evil 4 is still just as good and amazing to see from that point of view. the Cover system is weak 
 in many ways as its only on certain spots of the game (when the Manji Have guns.) Although not 
 as Fustrating as you might think.
  
  The menu system has a new lift now.. as anyone is familar with Dead Space knows about its Menu 
 system and it being in Real time giving you more tension over who is attackin you while you combine 
 a Red and Green herb can be somewhat Fustrating but part of the fun... just hide somewhere and 
 do it or give it to sheva and she will sort it out while you attack them.
  
  Sheva Is your partner and Part of this story I believe is partners stick together till the very 
 end.. which is exact case for this game. You and your partner wheather it being A. I or Human have 
 to stick together work out a plan and work side by side.. Not doing your own thing Even with the 
 A. I if you do your own thing she will try her best to stick with you if YOu dont have her commanded 
 to attack she will provide you with Support. With a Human its just the question of sending commands 
 so that the other person can hear or understand what YOu want him or her to do (if you dont have 
 a Mic) .
  
  A. I - Please note that the A. I is not Human. Its built really well done in my Opinion although 
 at some siutuations you tend to wander if its not perfect which it isnt But still not some bot 
 that will do random things and get you killed the A. I really does what she/it/he can do. She funny 
 enough will not use Grenade at enemies when she runs out of ammo... thats the only Flaw I can see 
 about the Combat side of her.. If you command the A. I properly you will get the job done properly.
 
  
  If you can have access to PSN/Live or even a System link or even Two controler (split Screen) to 
 play with another Human sure try it but try and stick with them as im sure they want to beat the 
 game with you as you want with him.
  
  Weapons - Weapons on this game is a must to check which one is best for you. and which one is most 
 effective for this and that foe. Although If you are a Weapon Junkie you just might like this. 
 The ammount of Weapons on this game is not as Many as some would think. Although I Prefer quality 
 instead of quantity and if you have too much weapons like in RE4 you end up buying and selling 
 guns too many times causing you to waste your own time on weapons that really makes close to zero 
 differnce.. They consist of:
  
  Hand Guns
  Magnums
  Shotguns
  Machine Guns / Assult Guns
  Sniper Rifels
  Grenade Launchers
  Rocket Launchers / Gataling 
 Gun (chris only) .
  Stunt Rod
  Grenades/Stun Grenade/ Incinarating Grenade.
  
  Etc ( Acid and flame rounds available for Grenade Launcher)
  
  Shop System - The shop system 
 replaced the Merchant from RE4 although Still a Brillaint way to have a place to upgrade your weapons. 
 Fits well into the game as If you die you get to re organise your weapons and upgrade them or even 
 buy and sell them Although Selling items can sometimes be worthless as a a Handgun ammo is 1 credit.. 
 and some weapons can be sold for close to a Major loss on the cash you paid for it which is a downer 
 about the selling of anything on this game except Treasures.
  
  One added feature on this shop system is that you can organise your items for both Chris and sheva. 
 and a Storage Space (so if you picked up too much stuff you can put it away for later such as F-Aid 
 sprays) .
  
  There is a Glitch on this item system on the game where you can Pick up items quit your game and 
 start that stage over with that Item you picked up and Pick that item again up... Whoring the crap 
 out of items in that area.. So if your stuck have a go at that.
  
  Graphics - brillaint Very well done espectially on the Textures on the Character (look at chris 
 BSAA Uniform) backgrounds and lighting has been done exetionaly well in this game.
  
  Cinematics has been done so well its like if its a action Movie (not a stupid one at that) .
  
 
  Sound/Music - Quiet fitting I must say the music Score done in Hollywood has Done a real Great 
 Job at putting the score up. The feeling one gets with the Music is and can be intensifying. The 
 Sound Effects though I will say isnt somethin remade. Its basicaly RE4 sound effects maybe re done 
 but sounds the same... Although I have heard sound effects from Resident Evil 2 that brought back 
 memories.. (awsome) .
  
  Gameplay - Gameplay is good still with its RE4 elements into it altho While Playing on Veteran 
 the Enemies didnt always leave a Load of Ammo at your disposal leaving you at times with close 
 to no ammo which is good will give you tension and make you think "mmm should I stab him or just 
 pass him" in order to continue..
  
  Enemie system is and can be well done as there are times they do some strange thing but unlike 
 the Demo they dont just stand there and wander.. they actually go for you.. Running at you and 
 then slowly stop to anticipate your attack.
  
  Dogs on the one hand can be a bit of a problem that and Mutants (would be a spoiler so I wont go 
 into it) although NOT impossible to kill... just some work.
  
  Controlers - Controler have been kept to the Old Resident Evil games with the exception of Strifing 
 side to side (Type D is Defult for it) . and that the Possition for the action and Run buttons have 
 been swoped around (which still is okay) ..
  
  You cannot Run and Gun.. so if your that type of person I suggest Download the Demo and try it 
 out before you go futher on.. its just Realistic.. that you cannot run and shoot accuratly at the 
 same time.. this has been prooven by the Producer who is a Good Marksman himself.
  
  Difficulties - Note that This game isnt that hard. Although if you think you a good gamer I suggest 
 Playing it on veteran if you not sure play it on Normal. Proffesional Mode is Unlocked once you 
 beat the game on Veteran which isnt impossible nor easy but Can be Challenging..
  
  This concludes:
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Story: 9.0/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9.0/10
 
  
  Score: 9.0/10
  
  PS. A Must to try out by Fans. If your not familiar with Resident Evil this game still would be 
 enjoyable by you..
  
  
  
  Review Writen by: Ouji-San
  
  
  P PS I finished the Game On Vertan with the A. I on 14Hours First Playthrough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalDuo1886
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 11:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm not going to go in the direction of saying that RE needs to go back too the classic survival 
 horror type of game, cause technically the new RE's (4,5) Is where Capcom is currently staying 
 at, and is too be consider the new survival horror, and I like it that way. The main issues doesn't 
 exist within game play, cause the game play is crisp and clean and easy to adjust too. It the lack 
 of longevity that makes this game not really worth the time it took to be release, so let me explain 
 why.
  
  The game play like I said Is crisp and clean, but a new aspect of the game is maybe whats making 
 people consider it easy and not long. The easy part comes from what kind of gamer you're. You learn 
 the controls or tactics faster than others, so it easy, which doesn't count for everyone, sense 
 everyone learns and plays different, but the game itself is short, and the fact that you now have 
 a partner, that right! No longer do walk around aimlessly by yourself, which makes the game a little 
 more realistic in my opinion. I wouldn't want to be fighting these alone and don't think anyone 
 else would either lol. Anyways; this makes the game a bit easier and faster to progress through. 
 Your partner can Heal and kill just like you or even be a extra storage case, sense there no extra 
 bag spaces in this game, which makes sense, cause you have a partner. I'm not really a big fan 
 of the Co Op thing, but a lot games I've noticed are doing the online play together thing (damn 
 that Xbox live slogan) , but it new and you can't blame Capcom for trying something new, cause everyone 
 else is doing it.
  
  The game story line obviously reflects all the games Chris have been in, sense this is his final 
 chapter, but this doesn't exactly solve anything that fans we're expecting, and once you beat the 
 game, you'll be like, so is it really over for Chris? Which is the main theme of the game, well 
 was suppose to be, so why not show it? I honestly wasn't expecting a great ending, cause no offense 
 too Capcom staff, but they aren't really good at ending series, but prolonging them, so I wasn't 
 too surprise at how everything play out beginning to end.
  
  Overall this is a great game, and is basically up to you too decide if it a collectors or not, 
 cause for a game that been constantly push backed, you would of think things would of been better 
 such as, more bonus features, a better ending and just a all around perfect game for the ending 
 to a RE hero. I honestly don't think they delivery, but one would think other wise, but it for 
 sure isn't a game to pass up, RE fan or not, it well worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r3dmond
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay for starters I lied, this game is lacking zombies. Once again you are fighting Las Plagas 
 infected villagers, only this time in Africa or more specifically Kijuju. The game continues in 
 the "Seriously it's not all about zombies." stage of Resident Evil's life and to a certain extent 
 t feels like the 2004 remake of Dawn of the Dead. The zombies now run, you have an abundance of 
 9mm bullets and there are now more intelligent zombies. That's right these dudes try to solve problems 
 i. e. climb ladders, avoid your bullets impale you with spears it's all there.
  To be frank this story starts out with a bombshell, drops a second one two levels in then leaves 
 you in the dark for oh say ten levels at witch point further bombshells are dropped. In addition 
 If you frantically read up on Resident Evil canon you will be diasappointed. Now skip this sentence 
 to avoid a spoiler but the first bombshell is that Jill Valentine is dead, then in a plot twist 
 worthy of Michael Bay you find out she might be alive and set out on a search to find her. The 
 story is kind of solid however some points need to be taken on an honor basis of capcom knowing 
 whatthey're doing in their own franchise.
  Onto whats really important, gameplay. Some of the enemies are over-powered such as the zombie 
 with spear, zombie with shield and sword, sobie with gun, zombie with shocky stick, zombie with 
 shocky stick and grenades and zombie with shocky stick and grenades and a helmet and this really 
 kills tactics to have to face ten of these guys at once. The Over-the-shoulder style is nice but 
 for some reason playing a Sheva warrants looking a different way. The oddest part is the cover 
 system which you really only need against zombies with guns however the game implements it in a 
 poor way. You can't move whilest in cover and it only lets you take cover on like 40% of object.
 
  Where the game redeems itself is replay value. You'll find yourself playing things again to see 
 if a fully upgraded S&W M29 will help. In addition in The Mercenaries mode. In Mercenaries you 
 find zombies for a set time period whilest gathering more time and combo bonuses. The only thing 
 that killed it was, you guessed it, special enemies. Reapers, Executioners, Lickers, Chainsaw wielding 
 madmen, those tall tribal shaman dudes and the chaingun dude. Which are just as hard to kill as 
 in normal gameplay.
  All in all Resident Evil 5 is good enough to buy and keep but has a few issues in need of fixing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dieharder3x
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I'll leave it to everyone else to talk about other aspects of the game. I think the game is phenomenal 
 by the way.
  
  But the reason i am writing this review is for all the people that may want to (or have to) play 
 this game in single player. If this is the case, be prepared to be completely and utterly annoyed 
 by your computer partner, Sheva. She is a RAGING moron. She never does what you want her to do 
 and you'll probably be worrying about her more than yourself throughout the game.
  
  I can easily say that 3/4 of "my" deaths have come from her being an absolute retard and dying 
 over and over again -- especially during boss battles. And another 1/8 of them are my own deaths 
 trying to get her out of some ridiculous situation. And the rest of my deaths are actually "my" 
 deaths...
  
  The entire reason i am writing this review is to inform anyone who might not have known that, if 
 you plan on playing the game (which is great) with the computer partner, be ready for an almost 
 un-fun experience. I have found myself more than once saying "if she wasn't here, I'd be fine."
 
  
  Consider yourselves warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SopranosFan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  First RE4 is one of my top 10 all time favorite games and I have played a ton of them so that is 
 saying quite a bit. This one actually improved in a couple of ways but to me it also missed in 
 a couple of ways. First the weapons management system, once you got used to it, was really nice. 
 The graphics are really great and the controls were really tight and responsive. My biggest problem 
 is the fact that in solo action Sheva is a complete idiot. Often times she would stand there and 
 watch me get attacked, stand in my line of sight and look at me while we were getting attacked, 
 and she is completely useless in the final boss battle. Bottom line if you like RE4 you will feel 
 similarly about this game because it is really similar to it, If you don't like RE4 you probably 
 won't find anything here to change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-kill33
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was phenominal, no two ways about it. Resident Evil 5 had rediculously high expectations 
 to live up too, another plate full of the same old formula just wouldn't cut it. So, Capcom has 
 taken a few minor risks with this formula, and changed it for better, or in some cases, for worse.
 
  
  The story of RE5 is cliche, but fun. It ties up a few loose ends, and leaves everytihng resolved 
 in a nice neat package, the story isn't the games strong point, and I didn't find it as compelling 
 as RE4. The graphics are top notch, and I mean TOP! This games is a marvel, a visual showcase of 
 what console games can produce. The environments vary from dark grey Industrial areas to open desert 
 and shanty towns. The animations are equally well done, characters move believably and the facial 
 expressions are wonderfully charming. The enemy animations are a little repetitive, but there are 
 hordes of them here so it's understandable. 
  
  The AI in the game is difficult to judge, sometimes it isn't and issue and other times it's a pain 
 in the ass. Sheva is as much help as she is a hinderence, after a few hours you will get used to 
 her and be able to optimise her to suit your needs, as for enemy AI... unless you ramp it up to 
 veteran, this is a cake walk. 
  
  The controls match that of RE4, with a few additions such as the side step. The real time menu 
 works really well and makes things tense, as does using Sheva as rucksack, give her whatever you 
 don't need... just make sure you don't put her in charge of ammo or health, she'll run through 
 it like a fat man does chicken in KFC.!!
  
  The huge addition to this game is Co-op play. This is where RE5 really stands out from the previous 
 addition. This element changes the game quite considerably, it allows for online or split co op 
 play, which is EXTREMLEY fun. It also detracts from the sense of abandonment, you don't feel alone 
 in this game and the punishment for being hit or losing health is much less. It's true, this game 
 isn't scary, and it isn't all that atmospheric, but as a whole it is a brilliant action experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolas_Katarn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Good: Co-Op works very well and supports split screen. When you play single player the AI is smart 
 enough to not be a hindrance. Incentive to play through the game over and over to unlock all of 
 the extras found in the game. A large number of fun to use weapons to upgrade and unlock. Great 
 graphics, character models, and excellent cut scenes. Excellent boss fights. New inventory system 
 works well and ability to store weapons and items between levels is an excellent addition. Mercenary 
 mode is back and is much improved with the addition of co-op and double the number of stages.
 
  
  Bad: With the exception of co-op and the improved graphics this is not much of an improvement for 
 the series. The game has a decent length the first time through but it is shorter than Resident 
 Evil 4 and after beating the game once you will be able to finish it much more quickly, especially 
 with a good partner. Gameplay is either love it or hate it, much like how the Resident Evil series 
 has always been. I miss Leon's knife fights.
  
  The story follows Chris Redfield's, member of the BSAA and upcoming Strongman contestant, journey 
 into Africa to stop a black-market deal and to investigate possible terrorist threats. You meet 
 another BSAA member, Sheva Alomar, who becomes your partner for the rest of the game. The pair 
 soon encounters a town full of angry Majini, who behave roughly the same as the Ganados from Resident 
 Evil 4. The two later learn that the threat is far greater than either of the imagined once Chris 
 finds out that his old nemesis Albert Wesker is involved. If saving the world was not enough Chris 
 has a personal reason for his investigation, trying to find the location of his old partner Jill 
 Valentine. Until recently he had believed that Jill had been killed in their last confrontation 
 with Wesker. 
  
  I never cared all that much for graphics and, while I can appreciate when a game looks good, you 
 will almost never hear me mention a games graphics when talking about it. That said, even I can 
 tell that this game looks great. You will find yourself in large, detailed, and varied areas through 
 the course of the game. In addition to the games excellent character models you will find that 
 the games sound is also up to par with its great soundtrack, sound effects, and voice acting. 
 
  
  On to the actual gameplay of Resident Evil. You will either love it or hate it, as little has changed 
 about the gameplay or the controls from Resident Evil 4. You still move from a third person view, 
 with the camera positioned behind you, Chris always taking up the left of the screen and Sheva 
 taking the right. You can walk by moving the directional pad, the game adds the great ability to 
 strafe left and right, and you can run by holding A or by holding the stick in. To shoot you have 
 to hold L, which will prohibit all movement, you then have to aim with the left stick and fire 
 with R, and I recommended that you bring the aiming sensitivity to fast to give you ample time 
 to react to enemies. Enemies will react differently depending on where you shoot them; they may 
 grab their arm, drop their weapons, fall over, stumble backwards, etc. Whenever the enemy is stunned 
 you are usually able to perform a melee attack, which is done by getting close enough to your enemy 
 and pushing the X button. Chris and Sheva each have six different melee moves they can use against 
 enemies, depending on how the enemy is stunned and where you are standing. Three that are done 
 when in front of an enemy, two done from the back, and one done when the enemy is on the ground. 
 Some of Chris' moves are a falcon punch. or straight punch, neck snap, or curb stomp. Sheva has 
 a roundhouse kick, stabs downed enemies, and can cut their throat. Sometimes you will be able to 
 interact with the environment by pushing things, climbing, jumping, grabbing, knocking something 
 over, etc, this is always done with the X or B button. As you travel through the stages you are 
 given checkpoints that you can restart at whenever you die. Some stage end with a boss fight, all 
 of which are done really well and all of them have a different method needed to defeat them.
  
  Quick time events make their return, or events where you have to push buttons during gameplay 
 or cutscenes to perform actions. Resident Evil 4 surprised me with how well its quick time events 
 worked; it made the gameplay more interesting. It made cutscenes more entertaining by putting them 
 in at the perfect times and not in a way that the commands were almost impossible to get right 
 your first time through or in a way that they took away from the action. Resident Evil 5 continues 
 that trend. The commands show up in the gameplay at the perfect times, they allow you to dodge 
 and counter attacks while giving you a cool animation and letting you feel like you earned the 
 right to see whatever happened.
  
  The game has a large number of weapons, over 20, and has a selection of Pistols, Shotguns, Rifles, 
 Sniper Rifles, Magnums, a grenade launcher with six different types of ammo, rocket launchers, 
 and even some special weapons, such as the bow and gatling gun. Almost all weapons are able to 
 be upgraded; you can improve their damage, reload time, ammo capacity, and a weapons special ability. 
 Special abilities vary from gun to gun and may include increased critical headshots, piercing, 
 attack spread, or scope zoom. Each weapon is fun to use and sounds great.
  
  The way that your inventory is handled is one of the biggest changes to the Resident Evil series. 
 You no longer have to pause the game and go into a menu to change your equipment, nor do you have 
 to sort through everything and place it in a way to give you more space, it is now all handled 
 in real time. You are able to carry up to nine items, four can be linked to the Up, Down, Left, 
 and Right buttons on the D-Pad by placing them in the middle up, down, left, and right spots in 
 your inventory. You can open a small inventory menu by pressing Y and can sort items around by 
 moving the left stick and pressing X. Items such as grenades, eggs, and mines now stack, giving 
 you a better reason to carry them around. Your partner is also able to carry up to nine items and 
 you can exchange items simply by bringing up both inventory screens and requesting the item that 
 you want or that you want to give, this is preferably done away from enemies. At the end of each 
 stage, every continue, or a retry you are able to buy new equipment and upgrade guns, all done 
 with money that you find in game or get by selling treasures that are found in game. You also have 
 access to your storage where you can move any unwanted equipment to use at a later time with either 
 character. 
  
  This brings us to the games Co-Op Gameplay. Chris and Sheva are together throughout the entire 
 game, although they may become separated or one of them may get trapped on certain stages, both 
 characters are still in the same area and will need to help each other survive. If you are playing 
 with the AI you will find that they are more than capable of surviving enemy attacks and that they 
 have excellent aim with the machine guns and sniper rifles. If you give them healing items they 
 will almost always use them at the right times. When you are looking to conserve ammo you can let 
 your AI partner hold ammo to guns that they do not have, you also gain access to a stun rod weapon 
 not to far into the game that does not need ammo and that they do well with. You are able to give 
 your partner grenades and mines, but they will never use them. When playing with the AI all equipment 
 can be traded freely, if you are playing with a human player it works pretty much the same way 
 but you are not able to exchange weapons. This isn't much of a problem because people will likely 
 take their favorite upgraded weapons anyway, giving you no need to switch. All progress is saved 
 when in co-op, so you also wouldn't want someone to get your favorite upgraded gun and then leave 
 the game anyway. When a player loses all of their health their partner is given a short amount 
 of time to get to their dying partner's side to heal them before it is game over. If you take too 
 long, if the dying player is hit again, or if both players are in a dying state, it is game over. 
 The games already excellent boss fights are made all the more better when working together with 
 a friend to take the enormous monsters down. All treasures and money found while playing co-op 
 if given to both players, there is no need to fight over who gets what.
  
  Co-Op can be played through split screen or through Xbox Live. If a player joins you for split 
 screen all they have to do is press start, this will take you back to your last checkpoint and 
 to the inventory screen. The joining player over Xbox Live will have to wait for the other player 
 to reach a checkpoint or to finish the level before they can join. While this can be annoying, 
 it makes sense. If a player was brought into the action right away over Xbox Live they would not 
 know which character they are taking over and would not have the right equipment. If you were to 
 join and use the weapons on the character at the time of your joining then you would be using the 
 items of the other player, which would probably upset many players. If you only want to play solo 
 and not allow people to join your game you are given an option to make your room open, closed, 
 or invite only whenever you start a game.
  
  There are four difficulty modes in this game. The first two will likely be too easy when playing 
 with a live partner but the third one should be just right for a first time through on co-op, the 
 same with normal when playing with the AI. To unlock the hardest difficulty mode, which makes almost 
 all attacks fatal, you need to beat the one before it. If the game ever gets too hard you can always 
 go back to past stages to get more supplies. If the game ever gets too easy, say if you are playing 
 through the game a second time with upgraded guns, you are able to store your old equipment and 
 buy your guns in their stock form to give you a challenge again. 
  
  One of my problems with this game, and with Resident Evil 4, was that there just wasn't enough 
 areas like the one where you fight your first horde of enemies. Once you get passed the first part 
 of the game you will never find survival as difficult, you won't be running away, barricading doors 
 and windows, kicking down ladders, desperately trying to find more ammo and herbs in drawers or 
 crates, etc. As I went through the game I noticed some actions I could have taken to make fights 
 easier, for example, in one area you are able to climb a ladder and kick torches down below you, 
 which will then explode and act like your incendiary grenades. It is a good thing that I found 
 some areas like that but the problem is that I always found them after I killed all of the enemies. 
 It was always easier to hold my ground and kill them instead of running around trying to find something 
 I could use in the environment, which is a shame. 
  
  It is hard to say how long the game will take you the first time through, it depends on your difficulty, 
 partner, and how much of the environment you want to explore. A little over 10 hours is probably 
 a good guess, if that wasn't short enough, if you play through the easier difficulties with upgraded 
 guns you can easily beat the game in under five hours. 
  
  A great addition made with this game is splitting the campaign up into chapters and giving the 
 player a level select screen, allowing you to go back to play through your favorite parts of the 
 game for fun, to improve your ranking, or to get money to upgrade your equipment. You are also 
 able to choose your difficulty for each chapter. Are you sick of playing the games main story? 
 Don't worry, the fun isn't over yet.
  
  After beating the game, in Single Player or Co-Op, you gain access to some great extras. Throughout 
 the game you will gain points, depending on how well you did in each mission and depending on what 
 difficulty that you played on, these points can be spent upon choosing a bonus option in the main 
 menu. Even before finishing the game you are able to purchase little action figures of the games 
 characters, those figures can be viewed and you can play short sound clips with them, while they 
 don't really add anything to the game they are still a fun little bonus. I've already mentioned 
 how you can upgrade your weapons over the course of the game, something I have not mentioned is 
 the ability to buy, through the bonus menu, infinite ammo for any of the guns that you have fully 
 upgraded. This is a lot of fun and allows you to use the guns that you like most without worrying 
 about having the ammo, if you just want to play a normal game you can turn infinite ammo on and 
 off before starting each game. The last two things that you unlock in the bonus menu is the ability 
 to buy different costumes for Chris and Sheva, two each, for use in the Single Player game and 
 you will unlock different color filters to change the games look. The second costume for the characters 
 looks a little weird but if you think that Chris should be wearing his old STARS uniform or if 
 you think that Sheva is wearing a little too much clothing, the third option is for you. The characters 
 will even wear their costumes during quick time events and cut scenes.
  
  You will also gain the ability to play through the game as Chris or Sheva, whenever you start a 
 new game or choose a chapter to replay you will be taken to a character selection screen. The two 
 play the same, with the exception of their six melee moves, so the only differences are that two 
 of the games weapons are unique to each character, the gatling gun for Chris and the Bow for Sheva. 
 The characters are positioned on opposite ends of the screen for your view, the same as in co-op. 
 Depending on who you play as, character positions in some of the quick time scenes and cut scenes 
 are changed and a few lines of dialogue are changed during gameplay.
  
  By far the most fun bonus that you get from finishing the game is unlocking Mercenary mode, which 
 makes a return from Resident Evil 4. You start off with two of the possible ten characters, Chris 
 and Sheva, both characters have their own separate load-out. You choose which of the eight stages 
 you want to play on, you start with only one. If you get a B or better rank on a stage you will 
 unlock the next stage, if you get an A rank or better you will get a new character, you will also 
 be awarded with more bonus points depending on your ranking. The objective of this mode is to kill 
 as many enemies as you can as fast as you can. You start with only two minutes on the clock but 
 will be able to increase your time by hitting time bonus statues found in each level, the time 
 can easily go up to over five minutes. One of my favorite parts of this mode is that every time 
 you get a melee kill you get an additional five second bonus to your time, making melee attacks 
 important and not a waste of time. In addition to worrying about your kills you will also have 
 to worry about staying alive, no matter how well you do, you don't get a score if you die.
  
  While there are 10 characters listed, there are really only four with different costumes, Chris, 
 Sheva, Jill, and Wesker. Each character plays pretty much the same, the only difference being their 
 six unique melee moves and Jill's stab move with the knife instead of a slash. Although this is 
 one less character than the previous game the different costumed versions of each character all 
 have different load outs, which gives the game five more characters than the last. The amount of 
 stages have also doubled from the last game and most stages, besides just looking very different 
 and having different enemies, have their own unique features, such as zip lines, ladders, spike 
 traps you can activate, and rocket launchers found around the level. 
  
  Agree or disagree with including co-op in the main story, you should be able to say that co-op 
 in Mercenary mode is one of the highlights of the game. You are able to play this mode by yourself, 
 with no AI partner, through split screen co-op, or online through Xbox Live. You and your partner 
 will have to work together to keep each other alive, if one of you dies it is game over. Do you 
 stay close and protect each other, split up and try to get as many kills and time bonuses as possible, 
 and will your partner even be able to survive if you get that last time increase? Working together 
 to survive by sharing ammo and using the right gun for the job makes this mode one of the most 
 fun extras I have played in years.
  
  Multiplayer was also added through downloadable content but I have no desire to pay for multiplayer 
 in this game, and I don't know why anybody would want to. I don't mind it if they charge for content 
 but hopefully it will be something that people actually want next time.
  
  While the Single Player is not as memorable as Leon's adventure in Resident Evil 4 they added just 
 enough to this entry to make it a great game. Co-Op is a lot of fun and playing through the game 
 on harder difficulties with infinite ammo and playing mercenary mode will make the game last. Not 
 perfect, but still an excellent buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calzoony
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 has not been received as well as people had thought it would have been. They have 
 strayed away from the original zombie idea, this time they are (majini) armed zombies. The old 
 adversary is also back, Wesker, but is he to be stopped. Up to you for to find out...
  
  You start off this time with a new partner (Sheva) , she takes away the 'scare factor'. When you 
 play you are not scared about random zombies jumping out and attacking you. When you play now if 
 your attacked your partner will always come to your aid and help you out.
  
  The storyline is good, and the cutscenes are well developed. Some of the cut-scenes are EPIC. The 
 last level cut-scenes are something which all games designers should look to for inspiration. 
 
  
  After completing the story you then look to upgrading your weapons, unlocking the secret weapons 
 and getting infinite ammo for them. Also when you have completed veteran you unlock professional, 
 another mode which enables helps the re-play value. Also another good addition to the game is 'The 
 Mercenaries', a new gameplay mode which is unlocked when you have completed the game on any difficulty. 
 This helps with aquirring exchange points to get figurines and infinite ammo. 
  
  In addition to all this there are plans for DLC to come out soon to solve the online multiplayer 
 problem. How this is going to work? I do question. But this could come out to suprise me and be 
 a great add on to the game.
  
  Overall the game is a good buy, it has a great story line. However the game is not as long as i 
 would have liked and the enemys are now annoying. In the early Resident Evil you would never have 
 had zombies using guns to kill you or grenades, so why have they changed this. It changes the dynamics 
 of the game, but it deprives from it. 
  
  I believe you should try the game before you buy. Buy it if you like it and play it over and over 
 again to get all the achievements which seems to be really easy to get. 
  
  Thanks, enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEATHBYYAK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:08 am PT
Review:  I was desperate to get this game as the Resident Evil series have always been my favorite games, 
 iv played them from the beginning, and was happy for the change of structure on Resident Evil 4, 
 which with its gothic setting in Europe and new style zombies, became my favorite game. I had it 
 for gamecube originally, and then got it for the Wii, which in my opinion is the best version of 
 any Resi game the controls are perfect. I can't help feeling disappointment with playing through 
 Resident Evil 5, i know they had to change it up but the African setting was no where near as exciting 
 as running through european villages and castles, and there is nothing as freaky as the monks that 
 chant as they attack you, in Resi 5. i also miss the guy who you bought weapons off, he was ridiculous, 
 but was very cool. There are some good additions such as the underground temple, the zombies with 
 assault rifles and the return of the grenade launcher with interchangeable rounds. Don't get me 
 wrong its a brilliant addition to the series but i think it lacks that something that made Resident 
 Evil 4 so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plartus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 2:45 am PT
Review:  As said resident evil doesn't give the greatness that was resident evil 4 but still manages to 
 give a fresh story and innovative gameplay. Lets start with the new partner system. Although others 
 including myself think that it should be a game done solo, your partner sheva isn't all that bad. 
 At some points you ,may wan't to put a gun to her head but she can be very handy. She is very good 
 at healing you just when you need it and where in other games you would die, sheva can put you 
 back on your feet after suffering a critical hit with a shot of adrenaline. The online or split-screen 
 co-op also adds a ton of fun to the game and is probably its most redeeming feature. Having a person 
 in the game helps rest those nerves and also provides a more challenging and fun game. Graphics 
 wise this game is absolutely beautiful. The maps are detailed and extremely well lit. Last is the 
 controls and this is where the game truly falls in my books. I found them clunky and hard to get 
 used to. Also because now most of the game is played in daylight the laser sight becomes frustraighting 
 and inaccurate. Well again i'll say its no res4 but then it was never meant to be. Great story 
 great graphics great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercal
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 1:59 am PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of RE4, it was one of the many reasons that I kept playing my GameCube all the 
 way into its twilight years. Needless to say, once I had finished RE4 I was waiting with baited 
 breath for the destined sequel to rock up and keep we drawn to the franchise. Like many people 
 I loved the more action orientated change to the RE games and was hoping that they would continue 
 in this style for RE5. To my pleasure, they did and it really does make this game a real joy to 
 play.
  
  You start in a fictional African nation with RE regular Chris Redfield who is there to inspect 
 the area for a bio-terror threat. He is met by Sheva, his partner for this voyage to make sure 
 he doesn't get in too much trouble with the locals. This is without a doubt a strong evolution 
 in the system n that you have a partner in crime that can be used by a second player or in co-op. 
 The great thing about this is that the AI is so strong that she can actually help you as a computer 
 character as well as controlled by a second player. With her being a strong character means that 
 it never feels like an escort mission more like a buddy action game.
  
  You soon find that the entire village is infected by the virus and has made some very tough locals 
 to take care of. Another strength of the game is the difficulty curve with certain enemies strengths 
 with many of them taking some real initiative to kill them. The only thing that is suss is a man 
 wielding a chainsaw and only wearing a bag over his head and a loincloth can take so many shotgun 
 rounds to take down!
  
  Soon Chris discovers that his old partner, Jill, that he had figured was dead could very well be 
 alive and held captive by the brains behind the threat, Albert Whesker!!! For RE fans that's pretty 
 cool seeing so many regulars in the one game again.
  
  If there was a problem with this game it would be that maybe the campaign is a little short with 
 taking less than 10 hours to wrap it all up. But this is rectified with the great Mercenaries mode 
 making a return to give you plenty of replay value. As far as the style of the game goes, nothing 
 really has changed except for a really pretty face lift that gives the game the push it needs to 
 excite you about the missions to come. As usual the cut scenes are also of top notch quality.
 
  
  Look those you reading probably already have it and already know it is great, but if there is a 
 slight chance you don't have it. Get it, Love it, Thank me later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedelman07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the "Resident Evil" franchise for the PS2 console, I couldn't wait for this installment 
 to become available on the X360. I can't exactly remember (according to the game's stats) how long 
 it took me to finish it, but I played it every night since I bought it and finished the story within 
 a week on normal difficulty (a good level to start seeing how I was new to the game but not the 
 series) .
  As far as the hero character in the game, I believe that the creators went a little overboared 
 on Chris's physique. Put the full cast of characters side by side and they make Chris look like 
 the Incredible Hulk. What the point of a Lou Ferrigno type hero in the game is, I will never know; 
 Leon Kennedy in RE4 was a good template as far as stature is concerned. But at least they made 
 up for it with Sheva, physically fit without being bulky.
  The weapon's in the game were enjoyable as well. The best part about them is that when you finished 
 the campaign, gained enough points and completed certain objectives, is when you can fully upgrade 
 them and turn on the "infinite ammo" bonus feature, This saves time and hassle on gathering and 
 conserving the ammunition you already have when you play the game the next time around (though 
 I shouldn't be the one to talk, I still can't quite figure out how to apply it yet on my game) .
 
  Outside of the campaign, I enjoyed the library where you can read up on character and majini (the 
 infected) history, the history of Umbrella, its past projects and the development of Raccoon City, 
 as well as the discovery and development of the T-virus.
  Overall, this game is very enjoyable and I hope to see another sequel in the near future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: losprophet
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  I am a real fan of the series, but this entry could possibly be the most disappointing. In almost 
 every way this game is similar to RE4 which in most cases would be a great thing. However, being 
 that RE4 is four years old, Capcom should have definitely but more effort into introducing better 
 animation, game mechanics, and a more elaborate story arc. It is sad when the most impressive action 
 oriented zombie shooter is not RE5, but it is Left for Dead. It is sad when the most progressive 
 game to the genre is not RE5, but it is Dead Space. This is a flagship series and the most interesting 
 plot point they can conjure up is foreseeable from the moment a certain character is introduced. 
 Outside from these gripes, the game looks damn good and is fun for a go around with a buddy. I 
 see a lot of people really liking this game, but it could have been so much more. Total let down. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ladainian21
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 9:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is a highly addictive, all-around great game. It has many great things such as a long 
 story line, great interaction and a great sense of action on all bases. The game of course could 
 use some better tools, like being able to walk while reloading and using your knife, and also on 
 Mercenaries it gets a little to crowded with the overloading hordes of infected flying at you in 
 all directions, but still it has been made great and is still one of my fav's for the short time 
 I have had it. One thing I absolutely love about the game is the amazing boss fights, they are 
 awesome especially Wesker and his super-human strength lol, oh and how could i forget about the 
 split second button pushing for dodge's and all sorts of other things, i mean you can barely blink 
 to not miss the button lol. But all in all this game is great and of course it has it's flaws but 
 hey, which game doesn't lol but yeah i like it and is a highly recommended game from my view so 
 get out there and give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defogger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 5:42 pm PT
Review:  At first I really had my doubts about buying this game. With RE4 having been given such a high 
 score by Gamespot, an 8.5 for this made it look like it could possibly be recycled and only worth 
 a rental. But then I thought to myself the scores on this site aren't always accurate and you really 
 need to try the game for yourself to see if you like it. And based on the player reviews it looked 
 to be a great follow up to a game I really loved. Ignoring the simple minded "bad camera" and "wtf 
 you can't move while you shoot" reviews, I decided to give this game a go and purchase it. Now 
 to the point.
  I'm not generous about my reviews meaning I don't give out high scores to games that don't deserve 
 it. When I say this game is worthy of a 9.5 I mean it. 
  
  SIngle Player and Co-op Mode are solid overall. 90% of the people who played co-op say that playing 
 by yourself sucks, and I can totally understand that because you can't start with co-op and go 
 back to single player. The co-op is a very smart addition to the game and it works so well and 
 is implemented so fluently into the gameplay. If you play with a good friend on live you won't 
 want to go back to playing by yourself. However if you start off by yourself you will enjoy it 
 that way and the co-op will only refresh your interest in the game later on.
  
  As far as features of the game go, you basically have Resident Evil 4 redone, which isn't a bad 
 thing at all. At this point what major changes could you really expect to the series seeing as 
 how RE4 was perfected? You still start off with basic equipment and there are about 30+ weapons 
 you can buy. In this game you can upgrade firepower, reload speed, ammo capacity and critical strike 
 rating which is something we all saw in the last game and had to love. They now let you go a step 
 further and upgrade any weapon to infinite ammo and 5 specific weapons will yeild an even more 
 powerful weapon once it is fully upgraded. Mercenaries mode will no longer be required to obtain 
 certain weapons like it did before, but the minigame is still as intense and fun as it was before. 
 
  
  Resident Evil 5 does a good job of rewarding the player for thier achievments. Not only do you 
 literally get Xbox achievments for certain feats, but BSAA emblems for example offer some interesting 
 things like action figures and new costumes. There are other things added too but all I'm really 
 saying is the developers when above and beyond to grab peoples' attention and hold it. I also think 
 that adding the history of Resident Evil in the form of a file that you can read is very interesting 
 because it goes into a lot of detail about everything that happened before the outbreak in Africa 
 and Europe.
  
  After beating the game on all difficulties and completing the little optional tasks I can say that 
 Resident Evil 5 takes the formula perfected by Resident Evil 4 and implements it in a whole new 
 way. I'm not saying that people who already played RE4 are the only ones that can appreciate this 
 fine piece of work but they can definitly understand it better. For those new to Resident Evil 
 or the ones that have only played older ones, have an open mind and don't be too quick to judge!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfdamurf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Now that I've had a chance to play through the game a few times, I can safely say it's a great 
 game. It may not be as good as RE4, but it is still extremely addictive. The best thing about this 
 game is that it does not get old, I could play it for hours and not get bored. Here are some of 
 the pros and cons:
  
  Pros: great co-op play, tons of replay value (unlockables) , lots of action, and plenty of weapons.
 
  Cons: extremely small inventory, Sheva's AI is below average (but not horrible) , and a fairly short 
 campaign mode.
  
  I won't say much about the campaign mode, except that it's pretty solid and includes a lot of progress 
 towards the main RE storyline.
  
  Sheva's AI isn't as bad as most people say, but it is one of the game's worst qualities. If you 
 are playing on a hard difficulty, it will probably be pretty tough, so you might wanna go on an 
 easy difficulty on your first round through.
  
  The unlockables are awesome, and mercenaries is completly addictive. If you haven't played RE4 
 than mercenaries mode is where you are given a certain amount of time to kill as many enemies as 
 you can (you are given time bonuses) . In RE5 their are 8 stages and 8 playable characters. Mercenaries 
 is even better than in 4, and one of the best things in this game.
  
  Their are many other great things about this game, but I'm kind of getting bored of writing... 
 or typing I guess. But any way, i do highly recomend this game, and hopefully it at least gets 
 nominated for game of the year at the vga's or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 10/10
  One of the best looking games of this generation. Character models look very realistic and the levels 
 look superb. It's pretty awesome to see blood look this good.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Now this is where things get technical. On one side we have the co op, which is hands down the best 
 i've played on the 360 since the first GoW. Though the split screen may be a little confusing at 
 first once you play for around 10 minutes you won't even notice that the game doesn't take up the 
 whole screen. On the other side there is single player, now if this is your only option for playing 
 RE5 then you will be fine but single player is not nearly as fun as co op and the AI is weak at 
 times. The AI buddy seems to like wasting ammo, not getting headshots and not avoiding chainsaws, that 
 can be more then a little frustrating. But the unlockables even out the game and make it worth going 
 through either way. Oh and the fact that this game is awesome... don't forget that.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Cheesy voice acting and great sound effects, yeah it's a capcom game.
  
  Value 
 9/10
  If you have a friend to play co op with then this is gonna give and give. But even if you don't 
 this game is worth the purchase.
  
  The good
  Fantastic graphics, Best co op of this generation, Slick new inventory system, ZOMBIES!!!
  
  The 
 bad
  Somtimes poor AI, Single player is kinda boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  First off I have played some of the other resident evils... 2 and some of 4... and this game is 
 really interesting... It is set in Africa which is different from the typical resident evil games 
 that are in like haunted houses and stuff like that... Some say the game is racist because u are 
 killing black people, well that may be true, but what else do u expect to kill, I mean GTA is racist 
 in portraying italians, russians, and mexicans as gangsters and many games like army games are 
 offensive to the army by making death look like a game... but thats beside the point... This game 
 has beutiful graphics, from the oozing of blood, to the city, the the sky, to the facial expressions, 
 its done really well... The single player is fun, but its better if u have a friend or some random 
 dude just drop in and start playing with you, this is a hard game and u need to be conservative 
 with your ammo even on "amatur" setting this game is hard, capcom never makes their games easy 
 and devil may cry 4 is one of them as well... The game has a good inventory system and for ppl 
 who complain that they have to bring it up while being attacked well u can lock 2 to your d pad 
 buttons... Its a really fun game the only flaws were some of the dialogue is stale, u cannot shoot 
 while u run, (which is fine, but in some situations it would be useful, on single player shayla 
 gets in the way and is a pain (use a real partner) , and the hard difficulty might be frustrating 
 for some new people to the series... Overall the highlights are the graphics (that look amazing 
 on a hd tv) , the gameplay, the weapons, the boss battles, and the setting... The game might not 
 be that scary, but some of the cut scenes are creepy and it will definitly freak u out on some 
 levels (mining shaft one) and some others.... Its a fantastic game and go and buy it for the co-op 
 and the experience... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donnieluscinski
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is the first Resident Evil game for the X-box 360 and PS3. and it is definitely 
 the best Resident Evil game yet. You start out in A small town in Africa and you meet a woman named 
 Sheva. She is your partner for the game. she can heal you and help you in any other way. You also 
 have to find Jill Valentine; who is being controlled by Albert Wesker. There are plenty of monsters 
 and even people to kill. You also play as Chris Redfield in the game, who was in the Resident Evil 
 movies. The game has the same gameplay as Resident Evil 4. Hell, you even get to see another El 
 Gigante in this game. The graphics are great, because you can change from color to black and white 
 and other colors. There is another Mercenaries mode to see how many enemies you can kill in a certain 
 amount of time. When you fully upgrade specific weapons, they turn into more advanced weapons. 
 Everyone deserves to play the best game out yet, so buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  
  Resident Evil 4 is considered by many to be one of the best games of last generation (this reviewer 
 included) , so it is no shock that this game brings with it alot of hype. The first thing you'll 
 notice is the graphics, oh my the pretty graphics. From the opening cut scene to the final one, 
 it is something not accomplished on a multi platform game. The water is perfect, the fire is beyond 
 goregous, and the character models are detailed with love.
  
  If you are playing single player, you play as Chris Redfield, a former STARS operative and now 
 BSAA employee out to fight bio-terriorists. Chris is the star of the series' Resident Evil 1, and 
 arch enemy of Albert Wesker. Can you guess who the final boss will be? Chris is joined by fellow 
 BSAA member Sheva Alomar, who you can play as if you are joining a co-op game. 
  
  The game picks up in Africa as Chris is sent to arrest a bio terrorist Ricardo Irving. On the hunt 
 for Irving you will meet betrayers and have epic battles with huge BOWs and of course, Wesker. 
 Let's just say Wesker is the most bad ass villian in recent memory. The cut scenes with these two 
 characters (three if you want to count Sheva) are extraoridinarly done. The graphics and quick 
 time events will blow you away.
  
  The controls in the game are quite simple, press L to aim, R to shoot, left bumper for knife. That 
 is about it. Control partner with B (call, get to pick up items, thank) and take cover with X. 
 There was much talk about faulty controls but in no time you will be scoring head shots and cursing 
 dogs that act as nothing but bullet sponges.
  
  The missions are smartly cut up into chapters, with two to three chapters a level. Some are shorter, 
 like the exciting mission where you find yourself on the back of a jeep with a turret, taking out 
 mortocycle baddies. Speaking of them, they grow progessivly harder as your missions speed along, 
 donning guns instead of bows, and the introduction of a Praying Mantee like enemy that will impale 
 you with one hit. All this makes for some very tense fights where you will out numbered vastly. 
 There is more then a few times you will find yourself down to a grenade and a partner.
  
  The AI partner itself is iffy. She sometimes takes out rifle for long range kills, but more than 
 a few times you will be cursing her as you do litteraly all the work while she is holding her fully 
 equipped machine gun. There is a couple really annoying parts where you split up and the computer 
 lets you down (new age my ass!) . By bringing in human friends you can rely on, the situations become 
 more tense but ultimally more enjoyable. The only problem you might encounter is running out of 
 ammo quicker because your partner will actually use some!
  
  The story itself is great. There is reveals and an epic, very epic finale. Wesker is one of the 
 best boss fights this generation. He is one bad ass, out to do nothing but become his vision of 
 a God. He is protected by several memorable boss fights, where the graphics and gameplay really 
 get to shine.
  
  Resident Evil 5 is one of the rare games that takes graphics, gameplay and story and turns it into, 
 for the most part, a tightly wound machine, that moves along at a great pace. Just when you think 
 you are safe, you just might want to think again.
  
  The infection is spreading, will you help fight? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ams914
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  I'm treating this game as one in itself, because being only 17 years old, I only got to appreciate 
 RE4. if you want that game you'll probably be disappointed here for the most part, but if you want 
 a great zombie-killing, high-octane, blockbuster game, then go out and buy it like I did! the graphics 
 and sounds are incredible, and the gameplay is signature to the RE series. It works perfectly here. 
 Again, I don't care about how this stands with the rest of the series because I can appreciate 
 this game as an intense actioner that stands apart from its predecessors. The game is good when 
 your playing alone, but it is meant to be played with a friend, and this is where it becomes tremendously 
 fun. Honestly, the only reason why I would think to stop playing a game like this would be if it 
 is too scary, and here they eliminated the fear factor and replaced it with constant anxiousness. 
 IMO, scary games target a small demographic, by making this game action-oriented they opened up 
 the serious for all the gamers that don't want a game that they are too scared of to play. I think 
 of this game as dead rising meets lost planet. if that appeals to you, if zombie killing appeals 
 to you, and if you've got someone to play with, pick this up. Replay value is high, and so is the 
 fun factor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 was fantastic, and one of the best games ever made, and it still to this day, holds 
 up really well. So now, Resident Evil 5's out, and it delivers plenty of thrills and action. What 
 it doesn't do as well though, is horror. But that's okay, RE4 wasn't scary either. The zombies 
 are all gone, but most of the enemies act like zombies anyway so it's fine. First, I don't think 
 it's quite as good as RE4, but it's pretty darn close. What's new about RE5 then? Well, for a start, 
 you play as Chris Redfield, and not Leon Kennedy. And the big new thing this time around is co-op. 
 Yes, there's a new character around to help you, her name is Sheva Olimar, the first thing you'll 
 notice is that she's hot. Her usefulness vary, but she's mostly very helpful in blasting enemies 
 to bits. But she loves to waste that ammo.
  
  The controls took some time getting used to, they're basically the same as in RE4, and it's been 
 a while since I've played that game. I was kind of hoping for, I don't know, slightly "faster" 
 controls. You still can't shoot while moving, and this is somthing I'd like to see change in the 
 next installment. Despite this, the game is terribly easy, even on the "Normal" difficulty. The 
 story is interesting if you've followed the series. Characters from past games show up, and there 
 are twists a-plenty as you progress. Graphics are stunning, maybe the best looking game I've ever 
 played. This is also the first game I've played on an HDTV. The music is excellent as well. 
  
  The new Resident Evil doesn't disappoint. It's more action-oriented than previous games, and 
 can hardly be called a "horror" game. But you know what? I don't care, and I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyskenfan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Warning, this review contains spoilers, so don't read it if you haven't played the game yet.
  
  First off, I have to say that I haven't played any other Resident Evil game other than Resident 
 Evil 4. So I will just compare this game to RE4. 
  
  Then I will list both the good points I experienced with the game and finally the bad points I 
 noticed. 
  
  The good things: 
  
  1) Graphics, cinematics and animations were beautiful and very well-done. 
  
  2) Interesting 
 melee actions like different punching, neckbreaking
  and stomp attacks make combat very exciting and funny.
  
  3) Ability to choose between different 
 control types. But boring that they didn't adapt the possibility to shoot while walking, as they 
 did in Dead Space.
  
  4) Co-op play with a friend is extremely funny, interesting and challengfing. Also I find it making 
 the game easier with a human partner, because you can agree with him or her about different strategies 
 and tactics.
  
  5) Replayability is massively huge!!! A lot of different upgrade abilities, special features and 
 settings and ability to collect emblems which lets you buy funny things like figures. Clearing 
 the game to 100% takes long time.
  
  
  The bad points: 
  
  1) First off: Too much action, too few puzzles. I remembered killing the second boss, but instead 
 of giving the time to settle down, was immediately thrown into the next action thing by being put 
 on a jeep in front of a gatling gun and forced to pin down a mass of motorcycling majini. But as 
 soon as I was finished with that, I had to counter a big El Gigante from RE4!! And that was not 
 the first time you never would be given any pause to relax. Many times in the game, the action 
 would just never ever take an end. Also, I counted about 2 puzzles, which is even compared to the 
 action-based game RE4, too few. But unfortunately, these 2 puzzles were dumb like hell. 
  
  2) Even if a co-op game with an AI was an interesting feature, it seemed to me like Sheva was extremely 
 helpful in the beginning of the game, but often didn't know what to do in the later parts of the 
 game. I experienced being attacked by a huge spider right in front of her, but she didn't help 
 me at all. 
  Also, sometimes when I wanted to trade items with her and she was standing right in front of me, 
 I wasn't able to do so and she replied: "I can't right now", or "You can't be serious??" 
  And sometimes when she actually was the reason why we both lost some health, she healed me but 
 screamed into my ear: "YOU HAVE TO BE MORE CAREFUL!!!" 
  I just thought: WTF??? :S That made me learn to gradually hate her more and more.
  
  3) Almost 
 every enemy in the game is copied from Resident evil 4: The village-, religious-, and soldier-majini, 
 the chainsaw guy, the dogs, the insects, the big El Gigante... There were only a few enemies which 
 were pretty original.
  Even one of the villains (Irving) reminded about Salazar from RE4!
  
  4) Almost no horror at all. I was thinking very long about it, but finally I realized WHY the 
 horror effect was missing: You constantly had the feeling of being protected by your AI-partner, 
 no matter what happened. You never got the feeling of being alone and exposed to your enemies. 
 
  Also, the enemies weren't designed very horrifying, except maybe for the marshland majini. It was 
 principally the eyes and the terrifying sounds that made the ganados in RE4 so frightening. 
  But even the mutated animals and monsters couldn't actually scare me, despite the nice graphics 
 and animations.
  There also were almost no terrifying surprise attacks like in RE4, except for maybe some majini 
 rushing towards you, ready to hit you with something.
  
  5) Main inventory was kind of interesting, but in-game inventory was almost always way too small. 
 But the disabling of the classic pause-inventory is understandable because of the co-op play RE5 
 is based on. They didn't want you to force your partner to also pause the game, just because you 
 wanted to change your weapon. 
  Not being able to see item details in the in-game inventory was boring and sometimes frustrating, 
 for example when you got a new weapon and just wanted to see its stats. 
  It was also frustrating not to be able to combine herbs or ammunition with the same items in your 
 partners inventory. I mean, you first had to order your 
  partner to give you all herbs or ammunition, so you could combine them and then return them. 
 
  And just why couldn't you "use" herbs when you found them? I always had to discard something valuable, 
 just to pick up the herb and then use it.
  
  6) I would have been grateful for more information and background story about some of the villains 
 in RE5. I mean, often I killed them even before I had my first real conversation with them! That 
 was kind of boring :/
  
  7) One thing that bothered me was the lack of humor and entertainment in RE5. Okay, there actually 
 were some goofy dialogues in the game, but they didn't have the satirical charm like in RE4. My 
 sister for example kept nagging about the game because she missed Leon S. Kennedy's humor and coolness. 
 
  The subconscious parody and satire like it existed in RE4 was nowhere to be found in this game. 
 It just was way too serious throughout the entire plot. 
  I have to admit that this isn't a factor that can be verified to the rating of a game, but it just 
 was something we both were missing that had made RE4 so funny and entertaining to play. 
  
  8) Weapons were plenty and interesting, but I found the grenade launcher to be unnecessary. Also, 
 what was the meaning of adding flash grenades into the game, when parasite heads didn't appear 
 so often anyway?
  
  9) The only setting option I missed was the ability to turn off the auto-save option. 
  
  
 
  Conclusion:
  
  Once again, I found many things that bothered me with Resident Evil 5 and only a few interesting 
 progressions and new features. But isn't it always so that you expect more of a game than it can 
 deliver, so you get more and more disappointed while playing the game? Yes, that is true. 
  If I had to compare the good and the bad points I listed, my rating would be something like a 4 
 out of 10. But once again, that rating wouldn't be rational if you look at the whole game. One 
 has to focus on every aspects in games, like graphics, sounds, game-play, controls, progress from 
 later games, animations, 
  plot, concept, the final result and the replayability, to being able to set a fair rating. And 
 when I look at what the game delivers, instead of how it should have been, I just cannot give Resident 
 Evil 5 a rating of 4. 
  Personally, I tended to a 7.8 out of 10, but gamespot only lets me give it an 8, so that is my 
 final rating.
  
  I think fans of the series and hardcore FPS players will be extremely disappointed of the game. 
 But personally, I find it both worth to play and worth to own, just for the sake of it :D 
  Resident Evil 5 surely will not achieve the rank of the years best game, but it is still very funny 
 to play. And then again, you can always hope for the next game in the series to be better, correct? 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctburesch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:01 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. The only people giving game bad reviews are the Resident Evil fanboys 
 who want every game they ever play to be like resident Evil4. Get over it, things change. The game 
 has a great story and yes the controls are a bit awkward at first, but after I got them down, it 
 works very well. The only thing I don't like is not being able to give my partner weapons and being 
 able to shoot and move. I can do it, I think a video game should be able to do it too. The game 
 has great graphics and the best co op to date. There is plenty to do after the game is beaten also. 
 The unlockable hard levels are very hard which is nice to see in games. The supposed "hardcore" 
 gamers wouldn't know what a good game is if it took a crap on their shoulder... This game is all 
 that was promised and even more in my opinion. If you don't have this game, you are truly missing 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdstoneX3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is the newest entry into Capcom's survival horror series. Though this classification 
 may of course not be up to date, since does it feel like a survival horror game? Yes and No. The 
 horror has subtly changed since the classic resident evil games. No Longer do you run through some 
 mansion or town, looking for parts to complete puzzles. Resident Evil 5 like part 4 has departed 
 from these roots, and improves upon the gameplay of Resident Evil 4
  
  Story: Its been 10 years since the Racoon City incident, and since the horror where it all began. 
 Chris Redfield now a Member of the BSAA, has been sent to Africa to investigate reports of Biological 
 Weapons. Though this time he has a Partner in the form of Sheeva Alomar, to help him look into 
 everything.
  
  Gameplay: Those of you who have played Resident Evil 4 will know what to expect. You control Chris 
 using a over the shoulder type of View. The Inventory system from previous installments has been 
 removed in favor of real time inventory, containing 9 slots for both Chris and Sheeva. The Inventory 
 system is Realtime meaning that enemies wont kindly wait and scratch their heads while you search 
 for the perfect weapon to take them down. To Adjust for this, the D-pad cross now lets you select 
 4 items, depending on how you placed them in the inventory, to make switching to healing, or other 
 weapons, a little easier in the heat of combat. Another change is that with the addition of a partner, 
 there are some parts in the game where you need to work together, either in giving your partner 
 a boost to a higher position, or breaking down certain doors, up until giving cover fire for one 
 another should the situation require it. The Game supports both Split screen play, as well as support 
 for Xbox Live Coop. which makes the whole game a little more fun, since you have to watch out for 
 one another. Weapons can still be purchased in a shop, though that shop is accessed between chapters, 
 this also serves as a form of item management, which gives you the oppertunity to sort items, reload 
 weapons, clearing space, and item storage as well. Weapons can also be upgraded during that time, 
 increasing critical headhot percentage, ammo capacity, fire power, and reload time. It can take 
 some time to get used to the gameplay mechanics, but its worth it
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are probably some of the best seen to date on a console. Facial Animations, 
 Cutsceens, You name it, it looks great, I also have not noticed any slowdowns, when the actions 
 picks up. All in all, very well done.
  
  Sound: One of the big highlights of resident evil games, was the music to go along with the horror, 
 Its the same here, where music will vary depending on the situation, such as combat, or going through 
 a dark and desolate area. Whatever the situation, the music goes along to give just the right amount 
 of creepiness.
  
  Bonus: There are tons of things to purchase, and find in the game. Finding the 30 BSAA emblems, 
 nets you nice extras, as does Upgrading certain weapons to maximum. Either Way, there is a ton 
 of replay value, Also Mercanaries, makes a return for those who have beaten the game.
  
  Overall Value: The Game is great, simply put, Its no longer survival horror, Its more First person 
 action, but its still a great game, which is fun to play and enjoy. Those who can overlook the 
 departure from survival horror will have a ton of enjoyment to gain from this game, with more unlockables, 
 great story, and even better graphics, The Online also makes this a great thing to enjoy with a 
 friend. Those who cannot overlook this departure, will miss out on a great game.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: d33pak001
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 4:18 am PT
Review:  Playing the game really makes u feel that u are really in Africa in a place which is full of zombies. 
 That is due to great graphics (one of the best in this generation) . But it does have the worst 
 water effects as well which is a big disappointment for the game. You play the game u feel like 
 u r there but then when u look at the water u realise that it is just a game. But the gameplay 
 is solid leaving behind some exceptions i. e. the aiming while moving problem. That will be a problem 
 for people who play Gears of war frequently (including me) but u get used to it as the game progresses. 
 This can lead to problems in many areas like the one where u have to fight a man with a chainsaw 
 as u have to stay further away from him to shoot him. Another big setback to this game is the AI 
 of Sheva Alemar when u play single player. She will kill all the enemies in the beginning and then 
 when she is out of ammo u r on your own as she will not take ammo and she will let u take it. Overall 
 it is a game worth buying if u are a RE fan or not as the strong points outclass the setbacks. 
 When u are so immersed in this game u dont tend to notice all these 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I have been a long time Resident Evil fan. Ever since its first incarnation on the PS back in 97, 
 I have been captivated by it. Even though i was a kid, I could still see the sheer horror and innovation 
 that title brought with it. Something of a new breed that didn't involve a Italian plumber or a 
 blue Rodent. It was mature and original. Over the years its had some great sequels such as RE2 
 and RE4. But sometime after Leon took out Saddler, Capcom decided it was time to gut the license 
 and in a sense turn it into a Michael Bay movie. Gone are the days of a Blade Runner atmosphere 
 and instead we get Bad Boys 2. Although RE4 wasn't at least in gameplay style anything like its 
 previous iterations, it still kept the spirit of Resident Evil. This game did not.
  
  Pro:
  - Amazing graphics
  - Nostalgia kicks in when seeing old fan favorites return
  - loads 
 of unlockables and some fun achievements add to the replay value
  - Gameplay is fast and intense, even if the controls are not
  - Some genuinely fun boss fights
 
  
  Con:
  - Partner AI cannot keep up with action in higher difficulties. Will constantly get you killed 
 or end your game as a result of her death
  - Given the new direction this franchise is taking, the control scheme is a completely broken. 
 You cannot expect the player to be able to deal with the situations they are put in especially 
 in the higher levels when the enemies have firearms
  - Just as the control scheme is archaic, so is the inventory system. Its just a total train wreck 
 and add to that the real time nature of it and you can just forget about being able to do anything 
 without dying and prepping before hand
  - Dramatically changed character models. Chris went on a Steroid bender and a fan favorite is barely 
 recognizable
  - The story is an essentially a rehash of the first Resident Evil
  - Economy is broken. Items are outrageously expensive, sell back for next to nothing, and money 
 is scarce
  - If this is supposed to be the evolution of the series why along with all the other holdovers 
 from the previous entries, am I still moving crates and pulling levers?
  - Quicktime events are run into the ground and are not used as skillfully as in RE4
  
  I cannot 
 recommend this game as a buy, even though i made the mistake of doing so. There are far too many 
 things wrong with this game that are being ignored by magazine and website reviews. RE5 is this 
 years GTA4. When it first comes out it will be loved by all, but after the hype dies down and everyone 
 can finally take their blinders off, they'll see this is just another game that doesn't live up 
 to its name sake. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alikaveh1234
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review and my first time beating a Resident Evil game. I have played the fourth 
 one and i liked it except i thought it was scary, i rented the 5th one bc i had a friend come over 
 to play it with me, we only got to play it for one night bc he had to leave. After he left I was 
 one 3-3 and decided to play alone. It was probably the most fun I've had on single play.
  
  Top 10 best things about the game:
  
  10) You kill parasite like zombies
  
  9) Mercenaries 
 mode
  
  8) A lot of things to do after its been beaten
  
  7) Graphics - they are amazing on standard TV and they are realistic on an HD
  
  6) Having 
 a partner - sometimes in games you are over taken by enemies and need to reload so you either die 
 or lose health so in this game your partner has your back
  
  5) Online Co-op - nothing better than playing with friends or finding people online to play and/or 
 beat the game with
  
  4) Weapons - The way weapons and combos are used is fun, you can shoot a guy in the knee and he 
 will get unfocused and you go up to him and kick or uppercut him and start a combo
  
  3) Weapon Upgrades - In most games a gun you get or find is the best you can have it, but in this 
 game you get to choose which gun or guns you want to be your best, you can upgrade your capacity, 
 reload speed, damage, and critical damage
  
  2) HEADSHOTS!!!! - if you love seeing blood splatter out of your enemies' head then getting headshots 
 in this game are amazing, i particularly love headshots in any game, but getting them in RE is 
 far one of the most fun
  
  1) Story - I like the story, it is kinda short but it is good enough to be unique. It has different 
 areas for each Part, it has to be good for a Campaign-only game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ychi
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  What a surprise that I ended up liking far more than I thought. I had played the demo and that 
 was a killer for me. The whole moving and shooting headache, turning speed etc.
  
  Well I decided to give it a go anyways and was happily surprised after the patch came down from 
 Xbox Live.
  
  No you still cant run n gun that part is still stuck in the game but you can tune the turning and 
 aim speed to help get past that problem.
  
  Graphically we are finally here! The cut scene and the game are truly one and the same, no loading 
 of videos, abrupt engine shifts etc, all wonderfully in game. Heck it runs so smooth that you will 
 end up missing some timed button push sequences if you are not careful. : )
  
  Story wise its solid and enough to keep you moving forward but only just enough. I would like to 
 have a few more hooks, turns, surprises but that's ok.
  
  Gameplay once you get used to the play style, it took me about 5 missions and I started feeling 
 more comfortable. Ok so bottom line with this? 
  
  Its a contrivance - you can see the zombies haul ass towards you then suddenly come to a halt right 
 in front, then hang there as they decide what is was they were going to do to you... Why do the 
 enemies do this? Well designers did it so if feels more tactical, more mental tension vs physical 
 reactions. Also the boss fights are more forgiving if you mess up some. As an example, running 
 out of ammo in the middle of the fight - doh!
  
  After playing though the game I have to agree with them. It was the right choice as it causes the 
 game to stand out more vs a typical first person shooter.
  
  Overall RE5 is a solid title for 10-20 hours of play. If they do a good job on additional story/missions 
 then it could be worth keeping in the library for a longer time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob007games
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I played the game all the way through and I have no love for this game.
  
  1) You AI partner stinks and does things which drive you crazy. First she shoots all the ammo. 
 She doesn't pick up items as you have to be the one to always guide her around to make her take 
 items. Calling her over gets really repetitive. If you need her help getting somewhere she will 
 help you the first time but after that you cant get any help, especially if you really want to 
 get a treasure. 
  
  2) The Enemies are faster which is NOT the problem. The problem is they just stand facing you for 
 2-3 seconds before attacking. I would rather get killed in the first 2 seconds than have to stand 
 by while I reload and these guys are just sweating you by breathing all over you... LAME. RE4 had 
 slower enemies but when they got up on you they attacked you. SO it was WAY more balanced. 
  
  3) The enemies are NOT SCARY! They are zombies with guns... C'mon now that really stinks and 
 NOT b/c they have guns but b/c they are no different than any other action game. I mean really... that's 
 so freaking lame.. give me a break. Please don't bite me zombie just shoot me... NOT!!!
  
  4) I don't know why the makers of this game thought it would be cool to RIP OFF OTHER GAMES!!! 
 Tomb Raider was totally Ripped. The whole puzzle in the temple of doom... WOW that sucked. I think 
 I killed 15 total enemies in that lvl cause they wanted a more puzzle game for this stage... LAME!!!! 
 Then Gears Of War was ripped off by that weapon which uses the laser satellite. I swear the WESKER 
 bad guy was like fighting NEO in the Matrix... SO LAME! Even the final battle was horrible... seriously 
 that totally put the nail in the coffin for me. That guy talked such crap for minutes at a time... I 
 wanted to go to sleep.
  
  5) BUT MOST OF ALL! The game was not scary at all! It was broad day light, the enemies are the 
 same in the whole game. I got SOOO tired of fighting the same looking guys hour after hour. Yeah 
 sure they had some oddities in there but it was all FLAT! I was not tensed up at all. Even the 
 action scenes and button pressing sucked. I mean really the action sequence gave you 2-3 chances 
 while doing the button pressing to achieve success.
  
  The ONLY GOOD this game had was the shooting system from RE4 and the graphics. Some of the shooting 
 stages were cool but everything didn't balance well at all. When I beat the game I sold it FAST! 
 What a shame... I wanted a horror action game instead i got a rushed action game with semi decent 
 replay value... that is if you don't mind the boring lvls while going out and playing with a friend 
 again..
  
  GS giving it an 8.5 was over doing it. The only thing which stood out was the two player action 
 and the online portion... disappointing...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The Resident Evil series has always been at the forefront for survival-horror games. That is, until 
 Resident Evil 4 came out in 2005. It changed the series dramatically, being a more action-orientated 
 game rather than focusing on the horror aspect. Now we have Resident Evil 5, a game that follows 
 the same design as its forerunner but also supports cooperative play. Resident Evil 5 manages to 
 capture the same type of tension and exciting action featured in Resident Evil 4, making it a fun, 
 well-crafted game that any Resident Evil fan shouldn't miss out on.
  
  Ten years have passed since the destruction of Raccoon City. You play as Chris Redfield, a B. S. A. A. 
 agent that travels to a remote African nation called Kijuju to stop a big weapons deal and also 
 to learn more about a project known as Uroboros. This time, however, you're not fighting alone. 
 You're now accompanied by Sheva Alomar, a local B. S. A. A. agent, throughout the entire game. Similarly 
 to Resident Evil 4, you'll be fighting infected villagers and native people, mutated creatures, 
 and even the man behind the show, Albert Wesker, in his Matrix-inspired attire. The story is told 
 like that of an action/adventure movie, featuring gorgeous cutscenes that help the narrative progress.
 
  
  While there are numerous tense battle sequences, this game is by no means a survival-horror game. 
 Gone is the sense of being by yourself in a dark hallway, not knowing what to expect around the 
 corner. The African atmosphere just isn't scary, especially in broad daylight. You'll be fighting 
 a lot of the same enemies, though there are a few mini-bosses, such as the chainsaw-wielding lunatic 
 and a giant executioner from the game's demo that covers his face and body with a black cloth. 
 While these enemies may take a while to kill, they're not all that smart, so you can rather easily 
 avoid any of their attacks.
  
  For the most part, the core combat and gameplay mechanics are still the same. The action still 
 unfolds in an over-the-shoulder view, certain battle sequences or cutscenes come with quick time 
 button prompts, and you still have to stop moving to fire your weapon (thankfully your mobility 
 isn't as restricting due to the ability to walk sideways) . However, having a partner with you changes 
 your encounters with enemies drastically. There are several instances where the game forces you 
 to separate, but you never truly feel alone, which definitely degrades the fear factor. The friendly 
 AI does an OK job controlling Sheva, but she often tends to waste precious ammo and heal you at 
 the slightest sign of an injury. You can also play split-screen locally, but the game is truly 
 meant to be played over Xbox Live. This allows you to be more focused on what you're doing and 
 makes the experience a lot better.
  
  There have also been some significant changes to the inventory system. Gone is the attach case 
 from Resident Evil 4, and enemies no longer politely wait for you while you rummage through your 
 things, and this does add a level of frustration. Each character has nine slots (unfortunately 
 you can't upgrade it) and an inventory to store extra weapons and ammo for later chapters. You 
 can give and items with your partner at any time throughout the game. You can bring up four items 
 in your slots using the D-pad for easy access, but it does get annoying to rearrange your weapons 
 for this. Also, there isn't any merchant like the last game, so you can only buy, sell and upgrade 
 items at the beginning of a chapter or a checkpoint.
  
  Despite how much fun it is to play the game cooperatively, there are some downfalls to it. When 
 you play split-screen and someone joins in, you're immediately sent back to the last checkpoint 
 to the inventory screen. Playing over Xbox Live is even more annoying. Co-op isn't drop-in, so 
 if someone wants to join, they have to wait until the host either restarts from the last checkpoint 
 or plays on until the next. Another problematic issue is that you cannot trade weapons or specific 
 amounts of ammunition to your teammate, making some battles more difficult if your partner doesn't 
 have, say, a shotgun with infinite ammo. Regardless, co-op is easy and fun to use due to the easy 
 format for entering or hosting a session. There are custom options for searching for a session, 
 and you can host a session with options such as no co-op limits or invite-only.
  
  There are a variety of different environments and action sequences throughout the game. At one 
 point, you can your partner man two turrets on the back of a military jeep while numerous zombies 
 riding motorcycles are chucking Molotov cocktails at you; there is a sequence where you have to 
 travel via motorboat to three different locales to gather pieces for a door; and there is also 
 a puzzle sequence involving hot beams of light. 
  
  I beat Resident Evil 5 in about 5  hours on my first playthrough. However, there are various unlimited 
 ammo weapons to be unlocked and B. S. A. A. emblems to collect to unlock character figurines to view 
 in the library. It's even more fun to play through the game on a harder difficulty with infinite 
 ammo for all your guns with a partner. Once you beat the game's story, Mercenaries Mode is always 
 cool to check out. You and a partner battle an endless amount of various zombies for the highest 
 amount of points possible until you die. There are numerous clocks to extend the amount of time, 
 giving you a better opportunity to get a higher score. However, with no achievements for it, Mercenaries 
 Mode does become a bit boring after a while.
  
  Resident Evil 5 is easily one of the best-looking games on the Xbox 360. There are a wide variety 
 of locales and enemies to see throughout the game. The lighting is spot-on, and you can see every 
 inch of detail in surfaces, on the ground, and on enemies. There isn't much normal enemy variety, 
 and their animations tend to repeat rather often. Cutscenes look fantastic and replica that of 
 a high budget action film. There is some screen tearing in the cutscenes, but it's not that big 
 of a deal. The audio is also good. The enemy sounds are top-notch, along with the weapon effects, 
 and the voice acting is generally good, though some of it is terrible.
  
  Resident Evil 5 successfully copies the tension and high quality action as its predecessor while 
 also taking it in a new direction. Having a partner with you adds a whole new layer of excitement 
 and fun to the game. The slow movement and shooting mechanics may not appeal to everyone, but for 
 what it is, Resident Evil 5 is simply a fantastic action game that you'll want to experience over 
 and over again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pycho22solid
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 11:50 am PT
Review:  PROS
  - A Solid campaign that can be played entirely in co-op
  -Graphics are AMAZING
  -Interesting story that keeps you sucked in
  -Several extras make replay value high
  -Awesome 
 selection of weapons
  -Bosses are intense and make up the best parts of the game
  -It's a bloodbath
  CONS
  -AI partner seems to not cooperate at the WORST TIMING
  -Many problems 
 from Resident Evil 4 still exist
  -You STILL can't strafe
  -More action means less horror
  -... that "bloodbath" is actually very censored
  
  Resident 
 Evil 5 is here at long last. It took 4 years but the sequel to one of the greatest games ever has 
 arrived! Is it as good? Lets see.
  
  RE5 offers some of the best graphics seen on current gen systems. Seriously. Animations are excellnt, 
 ironically the best examples are during the numerous fights with monsters- if you saw it in real 
 life- thats probably how it'd look. Environments are detailed and beautiful. whether your in a 
 village, a swamp, or some ancient ruins. 
  
  Gameplay wise, ResidentEvil5 is fun. It's fast paced and often times frentic. Best of all a buddy 
 can join in at any time. Because of this, however, the game doesen't quite seem like a horror game, 
 and just action. It's not that big a deal but horror fans will be dissapointed. A huge problem 
 is that for almost every good innovation in RE5, theres a flaw. Take the inventory system for example- 
 it's now during gameplay and doesen't pause the game for you to switch plus you can trade with 
 your partner, unfortunately this makes managment of items much more difficult to do.
  
  Overall, ResidentEvil 5 is a great game with a few problems that hurt it's excellence 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  In this Resident Evil game you are Chris and your partner is Sheva. There are so many different 
 main missions in this game. The main mission and the point about this game is you have to take 
 out Wesker and stop the disease that he has made that turns people into zombie like things. The 
 ohter main point of this game is to save both yours and your partners, partners. Chris's partner 
 is Jill and Sheva's partner is Josh. The story is not really the best because most of the game 
 you are just looking for you and your parnters, partners. Then near the last chapter then you just 
 take out Weskner. There are 6 chapters to the game and the game is about 14-16 hours long.
  
  The graphics are pretty good and they have great detail. But the gameplay is not the best cause 
 the game is really slow and the controls are really terrible. Also the shooting in this game is 
 not the best either cause you only get a really low amount of ammo and it is alittle hard to find 
 ammo in the game. But before you do play each level you can look at your organizer (a bag like 
 thing where you put your items at) you can switch stuff there, upgrade your weapons (you can make 
 your weapons stronger, put more ammo in them, and make it easy to hit the targets) , and the last 
 thing there is before you start the game is a store where you can buy items and guns.
  
  In this game there are alot of cutscense where you just can't skip because in some of them you 
 have to press buttons and if you press the buttons correctly then it might lead to another cutscene 
 but if you don't then you are dead and you have to try again. The main enemy in this game is Wesker 
 but there are other enemies like this one girl and this mysterous girl. (But they only help him 
 and he betrays them of course) The bosses in this game are fun to versus against and it is even 
 more fun when you do online or not online co-op with someone. The last thing about the game is 
 that there are alot of puzzles that you have to think about to complete each of them in the game.
 
  
  The good of the game is that there are alot of guns to buy and you can also get in the game. The 
 graphics are pretty good. Co-op in this game makes it even more fun. There are plenty of boss battles. 
 The buttons that you have to press during some cutscenes are genious. The puzzles in the game are 
 a great challenge.
  
  The bad of the game is that the controls and gameplay are really terrible. The guns in the game 
 are not the best to use. There is not that much ammo for the guns.
  
  Overall this game is a great game to play if you love Resident Evil and have played the series 
 since the start. The guns in the game might not be the best but the puzzles in this game are really 
 fun to do with a friend. I rate this game 8.5 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beowulf-x
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:47 am PT
Review:  it all started with a little game called resident evil 4 that introduced the over the shoulder 
 aiming system. RE5 picks it up from there and runs with it. even though you still can't move and 
 aim it doesn't hinder the gameplay. the levels are fast and evenly paced and the game sets chllenges 
 that you can actually handle when you are faced up against them. the story of the game is a little 
 too esoteric for people who havn't played the original games before RE4 but since i have it didn't 
 really affect me. The co-op of the game takes no time too start enjoying because it's fantastic 
 even without a live partner Sheva can not only handle herself but put an herb in her hand and she'll 
 take care of you too. The replay value of the game is great because the way you purchase bonus 
 features like costume game filters and infinite ammo you use the points that you earn at the end 
 of levels so you have too keep beating levels too earn points too buy better weapons to beat the 
 game in style it's a vicious circle of greatness. so go to your nearest gme retailer and buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  20 angry and ready to kill you zombies are coming towards you. They are holding broken glasses and 
 big knives while you are trying to do something to avoid them. You are looking in your bag to find 
 something that can be usefull like a red key, ammo or an insect. The situation is getting serious. You 
 shot the nearest zombi in the head and the others in the legs to gain some valuable seconds and 
 run quickly to an unlocked door that is behind you. Then you see a big guy turning around in a corner 
 holing a huge chainshaw.
  
  The husbandry of your items was always the heart in ''resident evil'' games. Have you got enough 
 ammo to chalenge the crowd of the monsters? Can you find quickly enough the first aid kit in your 
 iventory? Those were always questions that you were suffering from.
  
  The story begins when Chris Redfield (star of Code Veronica) reaches Africa. The town that he visits 
 is full of genetic transformed people called Manjini and within a few minutes the player is surrounded 
 by many of them. Fortunately he isn't alone. With you is a netive agent that helps you. This is the 
 first game of the serie that imports the co-op mode. It is a wonderfull attempt because some fatal 
 battles are made to be played perfect with a partner. Moreover you can give each other items when 
 there is a necisity.
  
  The relation with your partner in the game is considered to be very important. You should keep 
 up with each other or you will get lost. The levels are designed in a limited way to keep you concentrated 
 to your objectives. Of course the co op game has got some dissadvantages. While you are playing alone 
 Sheva gives you clues about how you will keep going. This guidance is completely does not exist 
 when you play with a friend so sometimes you are going to wonder about what are you going to do. Besides 
 when you split up things are getting extremely hard because you can find monsters that can kill 
 you with only one hit.
  
  But the game has also got good news for ''antisocial''. The Sheva's AI is perfect. SHe never get 
 lost and always helps you by killing a lot of enemies and by offering you items.
  
  In the previous games the actions were paused when you opened the inventory and had as much time 
 as you wanted to find something usefull. However in resi 5 that doesn' t happen and that can lead 
 you to desparate. Every attempt to open the inventory while in battle and searching for an item 
 is now fatal. Most times you will be killed before saying"this isn't right". If you want to survive 
 you will follow a different strategy. You will run back and so you will gain some time to do your 
 work. But sometimes when the room is limited this tactic can't be followed.
  
  As for the plot, it is good and not at all confusing. The african enviroment is a complete change. The 
 backgrounds are wonderfull especially in the sunny places. The new resi game left behind the lonely 
 guy in a fricky house. Now it prefers the big explosions and the amazing battles. The title is a 
 game that escape from the classic survival horror games and that makes it even better.
  
  Nevertheless the drawbacks are a lot! The game in the first levels is extremely good and always 
 offers you something new. But while you go on you will realize that the concepts are reapeted. For 
 examples some levels have the same objective. There is a button to push so you kill everyone to 
 reach there. Everything is similar. The last 1/4 of the game needs the use of the cover system. This 
 system is horrible. You can hide only behind specific objects. Another bad thing is that you can't 
 aim and move together so it isn't as shooter game as it seems. Furthermore the difficulty sometimes 
 (bosses) is extremely hard.
  
  All in all the resi 5 is in a very good way. The graphics are very good and the suspense vast. Probably 
 the best next-gen horror.
  
  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:8
  Sound:9
  Lasting appeal:8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayabusa-Chaff
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  about 4 years ago, the greatest game to ever grace a console was born.
  
  It was called Resident Evil 4. 2009's Resident Evil 5 is a sequel to the best game ever made
 
  
  RE5 follows Chris Redfeild, a veteran soldier and Former STARS officer, now part of the anti-terroist 
 group BSSA. Along with his ne found partner Sheiva Olimar, Chris must track down the source of 
 a pesky problem that is occuring in a fictional town located in Africa.
  
  For all its worth, the story is decent, it just does a hard job of explaining itself. youll have 
 to read several documents to fully understand it, as the cut scenes become unclear and sometimes 
 confusing. The Las Plagas has been let loose again, and seem to serve under Albert Wesker. However, 
 you never really see him ask them to kill you, and it can become slightly odd. Some of the new 
 characters are cool, like the identical to Salazar Irving, and the story throws some twists and 
 turns here and there, even if they are obvious.
  
  The game looks amazing, up there with the finest this generation has to offer. Character models 
 are amazingly well detailed, and te environments are awe inspiring. unlike RE4, where things can 
 drop and get a bit blurry here and there, RE5 has no such problems. When encountering large numbers 
 of enemies the frame rate with drop rapidly, however this is only on several occasions. The enemy 
 animation is brilliant, but a dose of too much of it can get old.
  
  For the most part, the enemy design is good. All look angry when fighting you. However you never 
 become Terrified of any of them. Take for instance, a horribly mutated humaniod with Spikes sticking 
 out of its body , jaw dripping with blood, as you empty out your last clip into the thing, as it 
 looks unaffected by your attacks. now compare it to some guy with a big mask and a stick. Its just 
 not the same
  
  Now onto the gameplay. Much controversy has been raised over the fact that you cant move while 
 shooting. It never really bothered me, as being able to move a few steps backwards while aiming 
 would probably stuff your aim up. But say, in comparison to Gears Of War, a game that copied the 
 formula of that used in RE4, it seems out dated. Also the majority of boss battles are fought out 
 by quick time events, and some are ridicuolsly easy
  
  The new inventory system is a **** you have 9 squares, of which you cannot upgrade and is all in 
 real time. It would seem ok on paper but in game it becomes frustrating and annoying. One of the 
 nine squares can hold ANY weapon or item, so you can hold a rocket launcher in one slot, but only 
 manage to hold a pistol in the other.
  
  Which brings me to my next point....
  
  Sheiva
  
  What a B!1 (h
  
  for starters, as youve probably heard, she will waste large amounts 
 of ammo, which you will have to give to her. Whats the solution? not give her ammo you say? yes 
 you can do that, or you can face the torture of her screecing African accent in your ear yelling 
 out 'I NEED AMMO', until you evenually give up and your brain melts into a pile of goo. on one 
 instance, she simply refused to use her machine gun, of which she had excess of up to 200+ bullets, 
 and when she wasted her handgun ammo, she would still yell the three words of doom. giving her 
 the command of 'attack' or 'cover' dosent change much. Another instance was when i finished the 
 game and started over again, this time with infinite ammo for both me and her, she would still 
 pick up handgun ammo, and then palm it off to me. I had the great fortune of playing with my friend 
 in co op for half of the game, and obviously none of these problems occured
  The game has a high replay value, featuring many unlockables, such as BSSA emblems, action figures, 
 hidden weapons and treasures. It really adds to the experience.
  
  But even with its problems, RE5 never gets boring and is a lot of fun. Co op is a fantastic experience. 
 The scares are kept to a nil, but there is still lots of gore and some Resident Evil fanatics will 
 just be glad to see Chris Redfield doin' his thing again, even if he has bulked up since the last 
 time he left that mansion
  
  I strongly reccomed Resident Evil 5. Its a great action game. If played in Co-op, the game would 
 probably warrant a .5 or even a whole point higher than i have given it, however the Single Player 
 AI really ruins the experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XUn7ouchabl3X
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:07 am PT
Review:  this game just like RE4 few things change graphic amazing nothing special why black people zombie 
 they make black one crisis white people zombie this game more hits i m sure 10/10 i finish here 
 stupid 100 words write lol so u want 100 world lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lollol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lollol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lollol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lollol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lollol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lollol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lollol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lollol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lollol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lollol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
 lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  It seems like just yesterday I was up at 3 a. m., bleary-eyed, hands cramped, and heart racing as 
 I ran for my digital life from a guy with a sack on his head. It wasn't so much his choice in headwear 
 that scared me, but rather the blood-stained chainsaw he was raising over his head as he and his 
 dozen or so friends rushed me. Such was the fear you experienced in Resident Evil 4 way back in 
 2004, and while RE 5 isn't really very scary (by my standards) , it still carries on the spirit 
 of RE 4.
  
  Everyone knows the plot, gameplay, etc., so I'll cut to the chase and just say this: If you loved 
 Resident Evil 4, you'll love Resident Evil 5. Although critics may call it RE 4 with better graphics, 
 I think the additions Capcom added more than make the game stand on its own feet. 
  
  First off, the biggest change is the co-op. While having your friends at your side to aid in the 
 zombie-slaying does diminish the horror aspect, it allows the new features and emphasis to teamwork 
 to shine. Having two players increases the amount of strategies for winning fights far beyond the 
 old "barricade yourself in a room with a shotgun pointed at the door" technique that saw you through 
 many scuffles in RE 4. I can't emphasize how fun it is to watch your buddy blast his way through 
 a crowd to an objective while you pick off anyone foolish enough to try sneaking in hits from behind. 
 It becomes frantic, however, when those enemies suddenly focus on you. Co-op is undoubtedly a key 
 selling point, and although getting it to work can be a chore, it really is the greatest part of 
 this game. 
  
  Single-player is a bit of a different beast, since you can't directly order your AI partner, Sheva, 
 to do anything more complicated than throw switches or change her combat style between Cover and 
 Attack. Her AI is generally competent enough to keep her out of bad situations, and if she carries 
 multiple weapons, she often changes them as the situation warrants. She also doubles as a handy 
 portable inventory, carrying herbs, ammo, and those ever-useful power weapons until you need them. 
 The new Inventory system is a change from the previous game, as you have only nine slots to hold 
 items in, and each slot has a maximum number of any certain item it can hold. For example, your 
 handgun will fill one slot, but you can hold up to five grenades in a single slot. This may be 
 disappointing for those who loved their XL Attache Cases, but it makes you think more tactically 
 as a result.
  
  Enemy techniques are more or less identical to the ones in RE 4; early on they still throw sickles, 
 axes, spears, and explosives at you. Figuring out how to beat these guys isn't hard. Managing dozens 
 at once while they do all the above is. Later on, they wield stun batons, miniguns, AKs, and even 
 rocket launchers, all the while protected by body armor that render your headshot skills useless. 
 This is where team strenghts and weaknesses are revealed. Your sniper may not be able to behead 
 enemies at range, but shooting those grenades hanging from their vests can work wonders. Of course, 
 enemies won't just sit there and wait for you to gib them, but luckily, your buddy and his machine 
 gun have your back.
  
  Fortunately, the enemies aren't the only ones who get upgrades. The shop from RE 4 returns, featuring 
 the typical rifles and pistols, but gradually unlocks more interesting choices, like a Longbow 
 and triple-barreled shotgun. Sadly, this upgrade menu takes place within a bland after-level menu 
 screen. Those who liked the Merchant from RE 4 will be disappointed at his disappearance. Nevertheless, 
 the upgrading and unlocking process is still rewarding and addicting. 
  
  One major change from the RE 4 story mode is the lack of typewriters to save. The game uses a checkpoint 
 system instead of mid-level saves, and this contributes to a MAJOR change in how you'll approach 
 this game. You can replay any unlocked chapter in the game, find tons of loot, and use the quit/save 
 option to quickly accumulate a vast amount of money for weapon purchases and upgrades. Found treasures 
 respawn on repeat playthroughs on levels, making some stages perfect for some RPG-like resource 
 grinding. This makes the game a bit easy, since that boss isn't so tough when you're packing a 
 magnum that doles out 5000 damage that you got by replaying chapter 3-1 for an hour. Still, it 
 doesn't blemish the game to a degree that renders it a cakewalk.
  
  Even after you beat the game, there's still lots to do. The Mercenaries mini-game returns with 
 new levels and playable characters, the token unlockable weapons and costumes make their expected 
 appearances, as does the figure collection introduced with RE 4. Also, a downloadable Versus mode 
 is on the way, so you definitely get your money's worth with this one.
  
  All in all, I think Resident Evil 5 did what it came to do; deliver a great-looking and intense 
 experience that can be held on par with its now legendary forerunner. All the parts of RE 4 that 
 worked return, and having a friend to share the experience with makes it that much better. While 
 I wouldn't call it a horror game, I'll call it what I think it is: a damn fine game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbitXL
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I never would've thought I was going to hate this game. I LOVE RE4, I still play it every now and 
 then. I loved everything about it and was jumping for joy when RE5 came out. I rushed to a local 
 store and purchased it immediately. I took it home, popped it in, and then a few hours later I 
 was bored and angry.
  
  But why? Surely a game with next-gen graphics and Co-Op can offer endless hours of joy? Well, no. 
 So let me break it down into detailed sections.
  
  Graphics: Yes, there are no real complaints in this section. The graphics are done very well and 
 show off vivid colors. Shading and detailing are the main reasons this game looks so good. The 
 only thing that can get annoying is that at times the brightness reflection in the game can be 
 a little annoying.
  
  Settings: Africa was not that bad of an idea for the next location in the RE series, and in fact 
 it was logical for virus researching and such. The problem comes from the fact that the whole game 
 takes place is BROAD DAYLIGHT! How can it be a horror game when you're playing in glaring light? 
 What happened to the fear of the dark and unknown? Right from the start, the game is as forbidding 
 as a CoD4. We all remember how scary that game was...
  
  Enemies: Opponents play the biggest part in the game and provide the intensity and action. Unfortunately, 
 the AI in this game is horrible. It has actually taken a step back from RE4. Whereas in RE4 the 
 zombies were a bit slow but still paced their ways to claw off your face, in RE5 they actually 
 at times turn their backs to you and stalk away. Apart from being lost, when they do start running 
 towards you, they suddenly stop a few feet away from you and stand there like a bowling pin for 
 no apparent reason. It's horrible. There were several levels where I just ran past them and I'm 
 sure they didn't notice as they stared at the wall. The bosses looked great and daunting, but were 
 easy and mostly tedious to kill.
  To further ruin the series, towards the end they give half the zombies AK-47s, with green laser 
 sights. Any shred of fright that I may have had has now completely been bored to death. I'm no 
 longer fighting clawed, infectious zombies but armed hench-men with horrible accuracy. It's like 
 a Nicholas Cage movie all of a sudden. Next!
  
  Game Play: Epic Disappointment. The controls from the four year old RE4 have been brought back, 
 because the term Next-Gen doesn't apply to controls. At least if you're Capcom it doesn't. The 
 controls are slow and years later, you still can't move and aim. At least the zombies are slow 
 as well, so take your time aiming for a perfect head shot every time with the loads of rifle ammo 
 you've got (pistol ammo is far more scare though) . Apart from that nuisance, the new real time 
 Inventory selection is an idea that looks better on paper than in practice. Because you have to 
 stop what you're doing and pull up the Inventory screen, there are times where any zombie can claw 
 at you and interrupt you. This adds anxiety, but then leads into frustration rather than intensity. 
 And to top it off, unlike RE4, you cannot expand your storage capacity, ever. The only thing you 
 can do is give your extra ammo to your AI controlled partner, who will then waste it. Awesome.
 
  Which leads into Sheva, your AI controlled partner. She kills the horror experience and the game 
 play even further. She is more like a crutch than a helping hand, especially when you have to feed 
 her precious ammo and save her every few minutes. Of course, the idea of being in a horror game 
 is canceled out by a tag along partner. Way to go Capcom. I hope this idea doesn't inspire the 
 next Silent Hill.
  
  Story: At this point, I'm so bored by the game play that the story is somewhat bearable, at best. 
 The twist in the end is unoriginal, especially when the exact thing has already been done by a 
 character in the same game. The dialogue, as everyone has said, is plain and unexciting. After 
 a while it kind of drags on because the story has no original build up or climax. If you beat the 
 game, it feels more like getting over a tedious chore than a victory, like that feeling you get 
 when you clean up your room and then find out everyone else was doing something fun with their 
 lives.
  
  In conclusion, SAVE your money and rent it first. The game, like most things in this modern age, 
 is driven by advertising rather than quality. RE4 was great for its time, but think as RE5 as rip 
 off from it. Graphical updates and a very clichd story can only take this game so far. Rent it, 
 beat it, and if you still want to play it again, then go ahead and buy it. 
  However, if you're like me, you would have rather have spent the sixty dollars on something useful, 
 like a jewel encrusted steel rope to hang yourself. 
  Thanks for reading :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flip4910
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Where do I start on this game? First I really hope you got a HDTV cause your really going to miss 
 out on some of the most impressive graphics I've ever seen! The game throws you into Africa and 
 almost as soon as you start its immediate action chapter 1 has one of the best action parts in 
 the game in my opinion. Now if you haven't played RE4 then you might not know that things have 
 changed quite a bit there really isn't any of that door sequence stuff, and theres really no more 
 hardcore puzzles to keep you pondering over. Plus you newest revolutionary thing about this game 
 is it is co-op a first ever. Now I haven't played the co-op but I here it's the way to do it. This 
 game is all action I really like that but I kinda wish they would have added some cool puzzles 
 in there, but the game in whole was still so good to me I'd give it a 10. In all the replay value 
 on this is great if you start on normal you got veteran to get through and if you do that you get 
 professional mode. There's also a section were you can buy things in the game with points, not 
 money, that you get for beating the game or levels, from there you can buy alternate costumes, 
 weapons (if you get them) , and action figures. After you beat the game it unlocks numerous options 
 which I won't spoil, but one thing to mention is The Mercenarie Mode. It's a time based mission 
 where you basically start off and just kill everything you can in the time allowed, if you do good 
 enough you get a new level or character, it's pretty awesome. So to break it down graphics are 
 great better then great, controls are very good even though you can't shoot and move it won't matter 
 when you start playing, replay value is very good with all the unlockables and Mercenarie mode, 
 it will keep you busy. So if you were thinking about get this get it don't rent it, and if your 
 a hardcore game don't forget to get the collectors edition game and strategy guide. I really hoped 
 my review helped out somebody and if somebody dogged this game don't listen its one of those games 
 you don't want to miss if you know what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sendmn23
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Well first off let me just say that I wasn't all that excited about this game when I played the 
 demo. I downloaded it from X-box live and played it a few times. I can tell you right off the bat 
 I didn't like it!! I was kinda upset that even after all this time Capcom for some reason didn't 
 offer up anything really new in the game play. Whether they did this intentionally or not is unkown 
 to me. I would think that since Resident evil 4 was such a huge success they simply chose to follow 
 the winning formula to the "T".
  I was hoping that there would be new game play mechanics other than a bunch of recycled ideas that 
 were present in R. E. 4. Heck even improvments to the game play would have been a huge welcome with 
 me. Instead I was filled with a huge sense of "De-ja-vu." "I've been there, and I've done that...." 
 kinda thing. The whole "Stop, aim, shoot, and runmechanic really bothered me all the way up 
 until the middle of the game. After playing a game like Gears of War, which in my mind really improved 
 that type of third person gameplay was what I wanted in Resident Evil 5.
  Since I am a huge fan of the Resident Evil series I was going to buy this game, and I never doubted 
 that just the quality of the game. I own all the games which span multiple consoles so I was getting 
 this game no matter what. I bought the game and left it in the corner for about a week before I 
 decided to finaly sit down and play it.
  From the moment you boot the game and play the first stage the first thing you notice is the Graphics. 
 I'm talking wow! Resident Evil 5 has got to be the greatest graphics in the entire franchise. The 
 lighting alone is off the hook! The attention to detail is grand. The textures are just incredible. 
 Resident evil in terms of art direction, and graphics is got to be the pearl when in comparison 
 to the others.
  Now The menu system, and the inventory system aren't so great. To be honest I think that was lacking, 
 but not so much in the sense that it really hurts the overall gaming experience. Me as a gamer 
 I just like pretty packages, and think that a good looking menu adds to the over all illusion of 
 submersion.
  The music is pretty good.... meh! Its certainly there for setting the tone which is good. I noticed 
 since I love custom soundracks I would just put on some Disturbed, and God smack and had a great 
 time! (x-box 360 version.)
  The in game music is something you can most definately live without.
  story? Hmph! The story 
 wasn't that great. Its okay, but its not that great. I wonder what the people at capcom do. They 
 own one of the best franchises in gaming history and they sit there and they try to come up with 
 a simple scenario. Okay "Chris Redfield goes to africa. He finds Wesker, who happens to be bent 
 on infecting the world with a mutated virus. Chris stops Wesker, and finds Jill Valentine who was 
 thought to be dead along the way. Chris kills Wesker on the same planet Obi Wan Kanobi kills Anikin 
 Skywalker.... (Well it kinda looks like it.)
  One of the coolest things I found playing Resident Evil 5 was the ability to play C0-op and truly 
 experience the game with another gamer for the first time. Now I'd have to say that was a really 
 neat deal for me. Most of the time I play Halo 3 I run into people who are just plainly mean. I've 
 noticed playing other games online I truly meet nice gamers with and agenda and love for true online 
 gaming. I'd have to say this is one feature which was way too cool. Resident Evil 5 as far as co-op 
 goes finaly got the formula down. That is ofcourse my oppinion.
  While this game wont win game of the year as the previous entry did, it will however be a memorable 
 installment in the franchise. The game play over all feels lesser than Resident evil 4, but it 
 seems like the whole team really tried to meet the bar... 
  Resident evil 5 delivers on a good solid gaming experience. I don't think its for everyone. I don't 
 think that it will appeal to everyone either, but I think that its a good game. I think its worth 
 playing, and I think most people will have fun with it. I wanted to give it an 8.7, but the review 
 score only works in increments of 5.... so theres my nine!! I thought an 8.5 is too low, and a 
 9 to high... I had to meet the middle ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrfidget
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Since this is from an RE4 fan, expect a lot of comparison between the game and this one.
  
  
  Resident Evil 5 is the latest installment into the ultra-popular Resident Evil franchise. It 
 may have the number five in the title, but it's probably the 15th game, but I don't know for sure. 
 ANYWAYS, there are a lot of things that set this game apart from other Resident Evil games, but 
 all in all, it's essentially Resident Evil 4 with a different setting.
  In the game you play as Chris Redfield, a character from Resident Evil 2. His job is to team up 
 with Sheva Alomar to investigate a bioweapons deal in Africa. But (whoda thunk it?) everyone you 
 encounter is a brainless puppet Majini (that's what they're called... not just 'zombies') . It turns 
 out, the bioweapons deal is actually part of a much more dangerous plot that could lead to the 
 destruction of the world.
  You play the entire game with Sheva by your side. She's fairly able and can fight off Majini fairly 
 well, and tries to not get in the way. But, it felt that almost every time I tried to use a scoped 
 weapon, she was directly in the way and refused to move. This was sometimes frustrating, because 
 it should be common sense NOT TO STAND IN FRONT OF A LOADED GUN.
  The aiming of guns is used by a laser sight that makes a red dot on all enemy targets you aim at. 
 There were a few occasions where I had to aim up or down and couldn't judge where I was aiming 
 because Chris' body got in the way. And there were some occasions when the outdoor environments 
 were too bright and made the laser too invisible. But all of these aim-screwing situations were 
 few and didn't cause any anger. There is also a brand new cover mechanic added in there. Although 
 it doesn't become useful until the end of the game, and it only works in select places, it works 
 fairly well and adds a bit of depth to the combat. By shooting different parts on enemies other 
 than their torso, they stumble in different ways which set Chris and Sheva up for certain melee 
 attacks. By combining Chris and Sheva's attacks, you can deal some pretty serious damage on your 
 foes while conserving precious ammo.
  The graphics in the game are superb. The character models are all excellent, and all of their animations 
 are wonderful (You can feel the awesome brutality of Chris' every punch!) . The lighting effects 
 are also excellent. The one thing I didn't like was some bad mouth movements that didn't really 
 match the dialogue in cutscenes. But the cutscenes are so well-directed and exciting that I often 
 was hardly even paying attention to the mouth movements when the story got interesting.
  All the voice actors that portray all of the characters (with a huge variety of accents!) do top-notch 
 jobs. The dialogue was also all well-written and believable. The thing that bothered me with RE4 
 was that some dialogue felt like it was a bit lost in it's Japanese translation.
  What I really like about the game is the wicked boss battles. They are plenty of fun and offer 
 some good challenge. Some of the boss battles in the game are of epic scale.
  ---
  Alright, the whole time I was playing the game I couldn't shake the feeling that this game was 
 RE4. It almost felt like it was made with the same engine (apart from the much better visuals) . 
 The items on the list may seem like a wide stretch, but they're there.
  -The story goes from one regular setting to different settings that are more ridiculous than the 
 last.
  -Each boss is a character that works under the power of the following boss.
  -You can skip certain parts simply by running past everybody and their slow melee attacks.
  -A 
 lot of contextual actions. A LOT.
  ---
  Overall, this game is great. Although it's not as good as RE4 or Dead Space, it's still an awesome 
 thrill-ride. So, as long as you liked Dead Space or RE4, it's pretty much impossible that you won't 
 get a kick out of this game, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrnivek
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game and playing some more co-op with one of my friends. I 
 enjoyed Resident Evil 1 and 2 back in the day and thought this would be a good one to jump back 
 into the series. 
  
  I think playing this co-op is how you would get the most fun out of it. From what I have heard 
 the ai of the Sheeva is a little off and you have to baby sit her a little to much. Anyway, I think 
 we played it about a hour before my friend gave up in frustration. He was used to shooters like 
 Halo, Gears and Call of Duty and right off the bat he was complaining the controls was screwed 
 and before the first boss he gave up and said he couldn't play it any longer. 
  
  When I played the demo I knew the controls were a bit different and I just thought when the full 
 game comes out and my friend is playing that things would get better and we would get used to it. 
 We just kept getting mobbed by zombies and I could see my friend looking up at the sun with his 
 character taking wild swipes with the knife. It was frustrating having to stop try and aim only 
 to get mobbed from from the side or back... Couldn't even get past the first boss with the axe. 
 Sadly I took the game back to the video store and swapped it out for something else.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 3:41 am PT
Review:  This was a fun game. I really liked it. When I get a game that I like a lot, I always play it again 
 immediately after finishing it (except for Bethesda's games which are sometimes so epic, I need 
 some time to recover from the experience) . This was one of those games. There are some holes in 
 the game but not enough to keep it from being a "must play". I like the new turn that Resident 
 Evil has taken as far as atmosphere goes. The previous games were more Horror than Action-Adventure. 
 In fact this game is more 3P Shooter/Action than Horror/ Adventure. Not a bad thing, just different 
 than the previous incarnations. The franchise has been largely set in dark, dusty, gloomy settings 
 with lots of small rooms and tight places. Those settings are very good for setting up the tension 
 and the "gotcha" scare of a zombie or monster ambush. The settings in this episode are different 
 in that they are big, open and bright. They give you the room to run that you never really had 
 in the previous versions. I like the change. Like I said, not better - not worse; just different. 
 The scares are here to a small degree when you are attacked from behind, but they are largely absent 
 in this game.
  
  What the game lacks in this dark chills, it makes up for in crisp, detailed and beautiful graphics. 
 That beauty extends also to the cast of the game. I can't remember when I have seen a prettier 
 cast. Both of our co-heroes and the human anti-heroes are all pretty. We are talking daytime soap 
 opera or Spanish Channel pretty. I think I may be developing a crush on an animated character. 
 Is that wrong? I think Capcom should play with the idea of character customization in the next 
 one. It would have been awesome to put one perfect scar on the brow of my character's otherwise 
 perfect visage. And I love the whole "partner" aspect in the game. My partner saved my butt so 
 many times I quit counting and started taking it a little for granted. The AI for your partner 
 is sophisticated enough to actually be helpful. That is a tough cookie to pull off, apparently. 
 In most other games where you have a partner and times in Resident Evil past when you had someone 
 with you, it seems more like a maddening escort mission where your biggest challenge is keeping 
 your partner alive. In this game, your partner is usually better at staying alive than you, and 
 definitely helpful in keeping you alive. Testing out which weapons you let them carry should increase 
 their effectiveness in helping you through the game. For example, don't give them the electric 
 cattle prod thing (I think it is called a "Stun Prod") . They really like it for some reason and 
 so will stop shooting and eliminating approaching hordes of zombies, letting them come in close 
 where they are much more likely to become your number one problem of the moment.
  
  Another great thing about the game is the weapons and unlockables. I furtively tried to upgrade 
 my weapons only to discover that fully upgrading one weapon unlocked the option to purchase a weapon 
 ten times better (and a hundred times more expensive!) . I knew I was hooked and would have to play 
 the game again. When I discovered that upgrading also unlocked an "unlimited ammo" option for that 
 particular weapon, I knew I would probably be playing it many more times than just the two. How 
 could I not strive for a long barreled silver Smith and Wesson pistol that started out with the 
 firepower of cannon? There are of course other things to buy. Specialty ammo and melee or bulletproof 
 vests are available for purchase at exorbitant prices. It should be noted that inventory access 
 is "on the fly", meaning real time and your enemies will not freeze and wait for you to rifle through 
 your things before attacking again. You will die with your hands in your pockets (or your handbag 
 if you are playing as Sheva) . I like this feature because it keeps the tension high, but there 
 is one thing I didn't like about the inventory system and it is this: You cannot look at any details 
 of the items while your character is in play. You can do so between chapters where you get a chance 
 to rearrange your things, shop, or store items; but during gameplay, you cannot even tell what 
 kind of damage that new weapon you just picked up is capable of doling out. This is a flaw, in 
 my opinion. You should be able to see the details of the items in you possession at least when 
 the action is slow and you are not being attacked.
  
  Difficulty settings range from Amateur (Easy) to Veteran (Hard) and I have heard of another unlockable 
 setting after beating Veteran status, but I am sure I will never play it because the Veteran setting 
 is f-ing grisly, dude!
  
  The storyline is a little skimpy in the newest excursion of Resident Evil. There are a lot clues 
 to backstory throughout the game if you care to read them. As for new content though, it is a little 
 thin. I think I can see how this chapter advances the story and I have my suspicions about what 
 is coming next, but I won't spoil it by guessing. The game could have used some more character 
 interaction or even just some more characters in general. In fact there seems to be just the two 
 heroes, one sergeant type character, and that's it. Well, except for the bosses and a thousand 
 zombies. All things considered, I do not think this a great game. But I do think it is great fun, 
 and very addicting. Capcom has some growing to do if they want to keep up with the new shining 
 stars of the industry. They need to evolve their games and genres to the same extent some of the 
 other developers and genres have in general. This game is a step the right direction.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: purple_pride99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  The series was due for a makeover, everyone knows that. The gameplay had gotten to a point where 
 it was near unplayable, it was just a broken system. When they finally reinvented the series on 
 the GameCube everyone loved it, and a lot of people including myself consider it to be the best 
 game of last gen. When they used the same control scheme and the behind the shoulder camera angle 
 for Resident Evil 5, everyone complains, yet it only improves upon Resident Evil 4's flaws. The 
 real time inventory is great for a change of pace, it adds an intense aspect to tight situations. 
 There is no reason you should be able to pause the game to heal up, switch and reload your weapon 
 ect... The graphics in this game are downright gorgeous, in fact they rival Metal Gear Solid 4. 
 Co-Op is addictive and works perfectly for this type of game. If you're into Co-Op experiences 
 you will not find much better than this. The one thing I think this game lacks is the scare factor, 
 but I'm not going to bash the game for not scaring me, it has its moments where it could potentially 
 make you jump tho. It executes almost everything else perfectly and there is absolutely no reason 
 this game should be receiving the hate that it does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azriel1990
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Immersive. That would be how I would describe Resident Evil 5, the game sucks you in from the very 
 beginning and delivers a gripping, engaging storyline coupled with excellent gameplay and game 
 mechanics that don't make you feel frustrated.
  
  You play as Chris Redfield, who 10 years after the death of his partner, Jill Valentine, finds 
 himself in Africa working for the BSAA. Here he is partnered up with African agent, Sheva Alomar. 
 Things naturally don't go according to plan, when a routine investigation turns into an all out 
 battle for survival when the locals are infected with the Las Plagas virus. You narrowly escape 
 and from here on out, the story focuses on you attempting to bring down the games main antagonist, 
 former STARS leader, Albert Wesker while attempting to solve the mystery of your deceased partner. 
 
  
  The game sees the return of some old faces, as well as introducing us to new characters and foes. 
 As the story ropes you in, you genuinely begin to feel empathy towards Chris and Sheva. The two 
 of you work side by side, unlike some games where your AI partner is largely independent, Sheva 
 is quite the opposite. While she can and will look after herself (and you) and generally do a good 
 job of it, you do have to watch her back. She will need healing, she will run out of ammo meaning 
 you will often need to micromanage both yours and her ammo, if she dies you lose, so you need to 
 keep her alive.
  
  In turn, she will do the same for you, the AI learns what weapons you favour and will give you 
 ammo for that specific weapon when they find it. They will heal you if you are hurt and will 'revive' 
 you if you are dying. As stated, the AI handles itself pretty well, very rarely do you find yourself 
 dying or your AI dying through it's own utter stupidity (though she does seem to persistently walk 
 into your line of fire, with friendly fire on, this is only a minor irritant in that it wastes 
 valuable ammo) . She is however a competent ally who can handle herself well depending on what she 
 is using as her weapon. 
  
  As for the aforementioned ammo, it IS valuable, you will spend most of the game using your knife, 
 or punching your enemies, weapons are varied and include; melee, handguns, shotguns, machine guns, 
 magnums, rifles and heavy weapons (grenade launchers, rocket launchers etc.) . 
  
  Naturally Pistol ammo is common, so you will spend the majority of your game with your pistol, 
 it is worth noting that this should be the first weapon you upgrade fully with the magnum being 
 next. The way the game cleverly distributes ammo and med supplies, preventing you from buying ammo 
 between chapters and keeping you on edge, counting every single bullet, forces you to make every 
 shot count and makes combat more engaging. You will also find an assortment of gold and treasure 
 throughout, which you can sell to buy new weapons, med supplies, armour, different rounds and even 
 upgrades for your current weapons.
  
  The game is split down into chapters, each chapter typically ends with a boss fight, these boss 
 fights are typically varied, engaging and challenging. There is always a logical way of winning, 
 but the game doesn't make it too easy, and so it will give you a limit on your advantage. For instance, 
 if a boss battle requires you to shoot explosive barrels and you shot them during a previous firefight, 
 they won't respawn for the boss battle meaning you will need to improvise. Also, your characters 
 carry their health over to the next chapter, so no more breathing a huge sigh of relief when you 
 barely reach the end of a chapter with a tiny bit of health remaining - you will begin the next 
 chapter with the same amount of health.
  
  The game does have a couple of annoyances, some of these don't make any sense, regardless of why 
 they were in the game. For instance, you can't aim/ use your knife/ stun rod and move at the same 
 time. This gives you a feeling of intensity through the possibility of being overrun at any point. 
 But it also is rather bizarre, why would you sheath your knife to take two steps forward when you 
 can just keep it drawn? Nine times out of ten I would take damage through doing that very thing, 
 repositioning myself to hit an enemy and being impaled by a spear they are carrying in the process.
 
  
  Secondly, the aforementioned inability to purchase ammo between chapters (yet you can buy weapons 
 and specialised rounds which are in themselves, costly) , though this is a rather small annoyance.
 
  
  Thirdly, controls can at times be a little clumsy, and a little awkward, particularly in close 
 quarters, maneuvering can sometimes lead you to get stuck between where you want to go and the 
 enemy your fighting (and Sheva's obsession with getting in your way doesn't help either) and this 
 can be frustrating.
  
  Gameplay itself is depicted from a third person perspective, looking over Chris's right shoulder. 
 You hold down LT (I am playing the 360 version) to aim and RT to fire, a laser sight is used in 
 place of the traditional cross hair. As mentioned above, you cannot run or walk while aiming/ holding 
 your knife/ stun rod. Levels are tailored to make good use of the partnership you have with the 
 AI, areas are only reachable/ accessible through performing assist moves such as tossing your partner 
 up onto a high ledge or opening a really heavy door. This can make for some interesting situations, 
 particularly when you are cut off and under attack. Intercut with the action (and cutscenes) are 
 frequent, quick time events which require you to quickly push a button to dodge an enemy attack 
 or deliver a fatal bullet attack to defeat an approaching foe. 
  
  The best part is, you can team up with a friend (who depending on their skill level may or may 
 not be better then the AI) , this can make the game much more interesting, it is just disappointing 
 that you cannot trade weapons between you and a friend - though this could be to prevent a player 
 who has completed the game from transferring the best weapons to a newbie who has just started. 
 This does however mean that you can often be teamed up with a poorly equipped partner making the 
 game harder as you are constantly having to babysit them. 
  
  You also have to wait until the next chapter or until a person starts over through failing an objective 
 or dying, before you can join in.
  
  You cannot carry more then 9 items as well, so you are constantly having to micro manage your inventory, 
 deciding on what you need and don't need, trading items with your partner and combining other items 
 to make new items. Accessing the inventory no longer pauses the game, and enemies will no longer 
 wait around for you to rummage through so to make things easier, weapons and items can be assigned 
 to the 4 D-Pad buttons to make equipping them quicker and easier.
  
  The music in the game is excellent and the visuals are truly stunning. The cutscenes look amazing 
 with excellent lip synch and realistic facial reactions from the various characters. This coupled 
 with excellent voice acting and a creative script make these parts a joy to behold. The game has 
 excellent replayability value - with so many weapons to purchase and upgrade, to unlock new weapons 
 to upgrade, BSAA emblems to locate in game, achievements/ trophies to unlock as well as costumes 
 and different camera filters, there are plenty of excuses to come back to the game after it is 
 completed.
  
  The best part is, you can replay the game with your purchased (and fully upgraded) weapons offering 
 more incentive to play on the higher difficulty levels.
  
  While the game has moved away from the horror/ survival routes that made the originals such classics, 
 the game still hasn't lost it's appeal. The game maintains it's level of tension through it's inclusion 
 of smart, intelligent enemies who attack from all positions as well as your reliance on your partner. 
 If you are fan of the Resi series (or even a newcomer) , this game is definitely recommended. A 
 solid third person game with a gripping story, awesome visuals, excellent music and plenty of re-playability 
 (oh and Mercenaries makes a welcome return) .
  
  Gameplay: - 8/10
  Storyline: - 10/10
  Graphics: - 10/10
  Music: - 9/10
  Re-playability: - 9/10
  
  Overall: - 9.2/10* 
  
  
 * = GS scale only goes up in increments of 5, so I gave it a 9.0 but I would've given it a 9.2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maddaus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 1:01 pm PT
Review:  While this game is mostly enjoyable, it feels like they dropped alot of the classic Resident Evil 
 aspects. Such as puzzles, cranks, slow moving zombies with a creepy moan. This game has little 
 to no scare factor.
  
  Resident Evil 4 really set the bar, especially on the Wii with such a flawless control system. 
 RE4 also was scary, and I'm not easily scared. Playing RE4 in the dark would often make me look 
 over my shoulder.
  
  Also I played RE4 for about 50 hours total. It kept drawing me back to it and I yearned to play 
 it. I would even find myself playing it when I didn't want to because I just had to.
  
  I've played RE5 for about 20 hours now and it doesn't make me want to play it. Its missing the 
 spark. While it is fun to shoot zombies endlessly it just doesn't have the same addictive quality. 
 Almost as if the game replaced 2/3 of the old developers. While you will recognize alot of the 
 sound effects and it looks like Resident Evil this is in fact a notch below its predecessor.
  
  The game to me feels too short. In my opinion RE4 has twice the content of RE5. Wesker is still 
 in the game and he's a pretty cool villain so that saves face but the game still leaves me unsatisfied. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medrago
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun.
  I will split the review into sections so it will be easier to understand my view on this game.
 
  
  gameplay: The game play is exellent. I dont understand why people are bothered that you cant shoot 
 while you move. This is not an action game (even though it is almost one) so making you able to 
 shoot while you run will put off the tense. For example the dogs are hard to kill because they 
 are fast.
  the AI is exellent. my pretty Sheva does everything great. I dont feel like a baby-sitter she can 
 take care of herself and is always there when I need her. If it wasnt for her I couldnt finish 
 this game. I must admit that she saved me a couple of times in each of the last levels.
  
  Graphics: Amazing nothing else to say.
  
  Sound: same as graphics.
  
  Story: This is where 
 the game starts losing its glory. To be honest I never sensed that there is any story. They dont 
 explain anything about Uroboros (I cant spoil because I dont know what it is) They dont show Exella 
 Gionne alot of times and I never felt her to be a villain because she felt like a minor charecter 
 and same goes to Irvyng. They dont even say how Uroboros was created no nothing. To be honest I 
 dont think that there is any story at all, besides that it is a follow-up to res4.
  
  Something for the crowed: I dont understand why you think that this game should be scary. When 
 you played RES1 you were young now you have grown up and same goes with me. I am not afraid of 
 video games any more. Three years ago I thought that RES4 is the scariest game I have ever played 
 until I played it two monthes ago and then I was like "what was so scary about this game?" people 
 you have grown-up this is the main reason why you are not afraid of this game.
  
  By the way sorry for misspelling I am not an ango-saxon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thingta42
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 7:50 am PT
Review:  Ok first off resident evil 5 doesn't really do anything brand new with the genre in terms of gameplay 
 unlike the fourth game which really was a breakthrough both in terms of hardware and gameplay. 
 Resident evil is one of the best looking games todate in video games i cant really argue aginst 
 anyone with that. But is its gameplay as good as it's graphics? the short answer is no but is the 
 game a great shooter? and a great game? well yes.
  
  The graphics on this game are breathtaking the animation on the characters are perfect and display 
 some of the best motion capture on a video game todate. The levels are nicely detailed and display 
 a good resolution with no blurry textures found anywhere same also goes for the characters. Again 
 the graphics on this game are just perfect i cant find fault with them. Maby im wrong there both 
 the PS3 and the 360 have 1 minor issue. The PS3 has some framerate issues while the 360 version 
 has Vysnc turned off for the sake for keeping its frame-rate again nothing major but if you own 
 both consoles that point i just mentioned can be a factor on which one to get.
  
  The Sound is good with voice acting pretty solid on all the characters with only a few funny sounding 
 lines within the game. The Music is good also across the game and helps set the mood. Overall im 
 pleased with the sound.
  
  Gameplay is great it builds on what made the fourth game so fun. Resident evil 5 once again uses 
 the overhead shoulder camera view for shooting and moving around and does this well. The game isnt 
 that hard nor is it too easy also that sied going onlin can make it slightly easyer but again it 
 depends who you play with. Theres a good selection of weapons and unlocks to be found with enough 
 content too keep you playing well after the main story is done. So if you enjoyed the fourth game 
 then your going to like this.
  
  i only have a few things i dont like however but these are mostly minor. Sheva can somtimes get 
 killed and make you fail the mission however this has only happened a few times and mostly she 
 is pretty adapt. So you dont have to babysit her.
  
  Also Sheva can be a bit trigger happy with some of the guns so its normaly best to give her a Machine 
 gun or pistol since her aim is actuly normaly better than yours and she can often hit stuff you 
 can't this can be seen as a good and bad thing.
  
  again theres a few other minor issues but its not game destroying. Overall Resident evil 5 is a 
 great game but not without its minor flaws. But i think you should check this game out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt_Uchiha
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  Amazing graphics
  Fun gameplay
  Online play
  Co-op play
  Good assortment of weapons
  Tough and interesting enemies
  Addictive for the first couple playthroughs
 
  
  Cons:
  
  Partner AI can be a nuisance at times
  Only 9 item slots per character
  No merchant in game
  Overdone bosses
  Gets repetitive after awhile
  
  Review:
  Resident 
 Evil 5 follows the same guidelines as the previous game in the series (RE4) . If you liked the last 
 one you will feel right at home with this one. The controls play the same as number 4 with the 
 exception of new melee moves and co-op manuevers in and out of battle. The story follows Chris 
 Redfield and his new partner, Sheva Alomar, as they travel through Africa trying to track down 
 the source of what happened to the peaceful little community. It starts off with a simple chase 
 to find a man called Erving and soon spreads to a much larger scale "save the world for bioterrorism" 
 kind of deal. Just what we come to expect from the RE series. Throughout the game Chris is periodically 
 haunted by memories of his old partner Jill, and is determined to know "If it is all worth fighting 
 for." As you play through you come across familiar and new enemies in the series. This isn't the 
 problem, the real problem lies in the fact that you fight against a similar boss 3 times throughout 
 the game. The second time was enough but oh well you have to do it again. Also another big issue 
 with the bosses is *spoiler ahead...........* Wesker. I mean come on, didn't they overdo it with 
 him? Not only is he impossible to hit by gunfire, but his attacks do tons of damage even with a 
 Melee Vest equipped. It seems to me they watched too many Matrix movies at the time lol. But yeah, 
 Some of the other holes in this game lie within the equipment....... 9 slots...... are you serious??? 
 What happened to the case you had in number 4? So all together thats 18 slots right? Thats not 
 so bad.. unless u want to have 4 weapons, a vest, and ammo for each. Hmm that leaves no room for 
 medical supplies does it? So throw that duty off onto your partner, which the AI over uses medical 
 supplies which really gets old. Another note is a new feature to this game is helping your partner 
 out when they are in trouble. That wouldn't be a problem if your partner paid attention once in 
 awhile instead of running off or standing near you not doing anything. Also they give you this 
 nice little screen to upgrade stuff.... hmm does anyone else miss the roaming merchant guy from 
 number 4? I know I know I keep making references about RE4 but this game follows in that games 
 footsteps so why fix what wasn't broken? All in all, this game is perfect for RE lovers/fans and 
 for anyone looking for a challenging 3rd person shooter. Overlooking the few holes this game has, 
 it is truly a work of art. So pick up this game, or join playing with your friends to see if it 
 is right for you.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSylntChamber
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Where oh where is the OG Resident Evil? I remember playing the original Resident Evil for Playstation 
 and loved it. This game is a disgrace to that name. 
  
  The graphics look good, like any release now days, nothing spectacular or innovative, but that's 
 ok. I can deal with run of the mill graphics when 97% of other games follow suit. 
  
  Story line, eh it's iffy. Could have done a lot better considering the development time. I'm just 
 not pulled into the the game and engrossed by the story. 
  
  Controls? HA, what a joke. This game has horrible controls. This is a step BACKWARDS in next gen 
 console gaming. Why should I be required to hit ten button configurations, spin around, touch my 
 nose, and lick my toe to shoot my gun? Why can I invert my x axis while I'm aiming, but not controlling 
 movement? Why, oh deal Lord, can I not move while shooting or aiming? If you are going to force 
 me into using shotty "new age *cough* epic downfall of the game *cough* controls" give me the option 
 to change them to a customized control scheme. If not that at least a industry wide standard control 
 setup. 
  
  This game is WAY over hyped and everyone writing the "amazing" review is a fan boi swinging by 
 Capcom and everyone else s nuts trying to fit in. Don't let them fool you, this game is a burden 
 to play and 95% of it is the controls. This is by far a rental or a bargain bin purchase. The fact 
 that a game like this get's a 9 and other less marketed games that far surpass this game get worse 
 scores just show you how fascist and ignorant the gaming community is getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koold321
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Graphics are so realistic
  Gameplay is fun... and Addicting!
  Replayability is awesome with some extra stuff and it has other things to do
  Challenge is a 
 great thing to have.... obviously
  Unlockables are great to get!
  Co op is a blast with shooting Zombies and shooting their heads off!
  Love the Mercenaries Mode! 
Shoot as many zombies as you can before the copter comes or else...."
  Campaign is awesomeZombies with Dirtbikes and some KRAZY FUN"
  Online Co-op....
  
  Cons:
 
  Addicting
  Not really anything bad I would say
  
  
  Resident Evil 5 is the sequel to Resident Evil 4 which made a big change in the series. The graphics 
 are great because of the lighting, texture, character models, and everything else. I don't have 
 much to say about the graphics. The gameplay is challenging, fun, and addicting all at the same 
 time. Just taking time to kill zombies and huge guys and some chainsaw dudes. The Campaign is awesome 
 by yourself and awesome in co-op so you can enjoy the experience either way. The AI isn't so bad, 
 and Sheva is smart. There is a awesome mode which you unlock after you beat the game called Mercenaries. 
 Mercenaries is where you trie to get a high score and kill as many zombies as you can. You can 
 get time bonuses to get a better score. You can kills zombies in a chain reaction to get more points. 
 The replayability is just awesome... unlockables for mercenaries like characters, campaign stuff.... awesome. 
 You can also keep your weapons and upgrade them so if you beat the game, upgrade all your weapons 
 to have infinite ammo so you don't have a problem. Online Co-op is a blast just like offline. You 
 can beat the game playing with someone which isFear You Won't Forget" and that is true. Online 
 Co-op in Mercenaries is also awesome. The campaign is awesome by yourself and the missions can 
 be really challanging and fun. I like the mission where you shoot zombies on dirtbikes on the back 
 of a turret. The bosses are fun. I think Resident Evil 5 deserves a game of the year award for 
 2009's best survival horror game. It will be the best of the best just like Resident Evil 4. It 
 will be a fear you can never let go of for 2009.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NaturalXX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Ok so after I finished Resident Evil 5 I was kindof lost for words really. I was thinking to myself 
 how a Resident Evil game could be so awesome in the action genre when it's true genre is survival 
 horror. These are two very different genres with survival horror more dark and intense areas with 
 scary features as action is more gun blazing and minor features of f rightness. Fortunately Resident 
 Evil 5 does a superb job at this. Now it's not a good as Resident Evil 4 but it comes pretty damn 
 close to it. Resident Evil 5 takes place in a secured village in Africa. Now you are probably wondering 
 if this game is racist and its the opposite as they put white villagers into the mix so they wont 
 be penalized for the gameplay. You play as Chris Redfield, a soldier apart of the S. T. A. R. S. unit 
 with his new partner Sheva Alomar. The main story is basically around destroying the source of 
 the virus that Umbrella was the source in Raccoon City. Of course Albert Wesker comes into the 
 mix and shows off his cool moves. The sound in this game is superb. I mean the explosions to the 
 character's voices are great. The graphics are stunning too. You might see some minor glitches 
 here and there but overall its solid. Now this game is made for co-op with a friend over Xbox Live 
 or the Playstation network. You can also play offline with a family member or a friend. But if 
 you play alone Sheva will be controlled by the AI. The computer does a good job getting people 
 killed but Sheva seems to use too much ammo for one enemy and uses too many herbs (health) after 
 you get hit once. Sheva is also a tool to stack whatever you need in her inventory since you only 
 have nine boxes in each of your inventories. Just like Resident Evil 4, Resident Evil 5 has button 
 mashing during cutscenes so don't put that controller down. The game will take you about 12 hours 
 to complete, which is an average time zone for this type of game but after you finish it you WILL 
 want to play more. I'm serious, this is the most fun I have had in a long time. It goes into the 
 group with Resident Evil 4 that you just want to play over and over again with your upgraded weapons. 
 After you beat the game, you unlock Mercenaries mode which is basically like the Mercenaries mode 
 in Resident Evil 4 and it's fun. Now some die hard fans might be a little or really pissed off 
 that this game has no horror what-so-ever in the fifth installment. And me being one of the semi-die 
 hard fans, I really didn't care. In fact it is probably the second best Resident Evil game coming 
 short to Resident Evil 4. This is a game for the action gamers or Resident Evil fans. And if you 
 don't mind that this is not a survival horror game, then you will enjoy this game. Infected people, 
 guns, a partner that does something (unlike Ashley from Resident Evil 4) and some great boss fights, 
 you will definitely have some fun with this game. If I had to say something wrong about this game 
 is that you will see some of the same boss fights from the previous Resident Evil game but that 
 is a minor flaw. Resident Evil 5 is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourmom281
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Some complain that you can't move while shooting... well that's the point because it raises the 
 tension and difficulty. This is not gears of war which is good because I already own two gears 
 games and don't need another just yet. Plus who cares if its more of an action game then survival 
 horror. RE 4 didn't scare me at all and I loved it, its my favorite game cube game, but I actually 
 enjoyed RE 5 even more. Sure its shorter, but it feels just right at 12 hours. The controls and 
 movement appear to be exactly the same as RE 4on the surface, but after going back and playing 
 RE 4 I realized considerable improvements have been made. Regardless of what some think this is 
 in my opinion and strong evolution forward for the series. All in all it lived up to the hype for 
 me.
  
  Pros:
  Best graphics I've seen to date on the 360 (yes I liked it more then gears graphics) , entertaining 
 story, fun combat, high tension
  
  Cons:
  May have been to short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  now, there is nothing WRONG with this game, there are just a few things that could be done a lot 
 better. first, the story is engaging and it just keeps getting your adrenaline pumping when you 
 play through it. but the story itself could have been better. I'm not complaining, it was just 
 developed a little prematurely. now the graphics are amazing. when you look at every little aspect 
 of every character, you will realize that the developers mad this game flawlessly gorgeous. every 
 aspect is bright and colorful. the game play is pretty amazing. I honestly only have one complaint 
 about this entire game... you can't move while shooting/reloading!!!!! it caused me many agonizing 
 deaths. the friendly AI isn't the best really. she WILL help you WHENEVER your "dying" status is 
 displayed, so don't get discouraged. but when "help" is displayed, Sheva doesn't mind taking her 
 sweet time to help you! the only REAL problem was in the final boss fight. I died MANY times. but 
 I managed to defeat the boss, so no MAJOR complaints. playing this with a buddy is an absolute 
 blast! I had loads of fun playing this with my friend. there are lost of delightful co-op elements 
 here to keep you pretty excited. not to mention there's lots of weapon upgrades! so it will take 
 a lot of time to get them ALL. the game gives you lots of thrills and excitement, so don't hesitate 
 to go but this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocketdog
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I want to say first the reason i bought the xbox 360 over a year ago is because of my high anticipation 
 of this game, resident evil 5. 
  these are the reasons resident evil came to be so well loved, and has prolonged even the flashiest 
 of games that followed suit after resident evil created (and then seemingly just killed what it 
 began) the genre survival horror:
  from my experience the greatest thrill of the older resident evil games was feeling a great deal 
 of secluded nightmarish scares that you must fight through to both survive and save whomever you 
 encounter along the way. the co-op mode is great for games with mindless shooting, where the only 
 true feeling that is upposed to be created by its gameplay is excitment. i loved gears of war, 
 but in no way in my mind did i think to myself its like playing resident evil! that is now forever 
 changed. the idea of having a resident evil game where you can walk/run and shoot is ridiculous 
 to the more than average fan because that then would steal away from the realism, not of the scenerio, 
 but rather the fright. 
  now, another big problem with this game titled resident evil is the fact that it just is not scary. 
 you fight in bright day light, you are dealing with military companies with squads and code names 
 like alpha and bravo and i really thought i was playing some sort of call of duty biowar game at 
 first. you even get orders from some general sounding guy over the radio. that being said, there 
 have been small outfits of police teams in resident evil before, but they always get split up and 
 killed off. plus the differences between police teams and military squades are quite obvious. 
 
  now, the enemies you face are a mixed bunch of big mutations and people sized "zombies". in resident 
 evil 4 we saw these types of zombies and they would carry sharp tools, chain saws and even grenades. 
 this wasnt enough oviously as now we see zombies in full body armor shooting machine guns from 
 across a room. this directly took the feel of resident evil right from the game. an army zombie 
 with an itchy trigger finger is no real difference than a military grunt from just about any war 
 game on shelves today. 
  another reason a more "run and gun" type gameplay wouldnt feel right in this game is because there 
 is supposed to be a very limited amount of ammo at you disposal yet in that sort of game your accuracy 
 goes down and you would need a much larger supply of ammunition. thank god they didnt go this route. 
 
  they took out the classic inventory system and saving type writers (and even the guy from resident 
 evil 4 who would sell you things. he was replaced by some magical screen that pops up and you can 
 buy things from it. much better... i guess) this may be seen as a much needed change by the average 
 gamer, but to me at least it was like removing cindy crawfords mole because we are sick of looking 
 at it, even though its part of something beautiful. 
  all that being said, the game has strayed from the T-virus, it has strayed from its survival feel, 
 and it has strayed from the ambient creepiness it used to contain. its basically an empty shell 
 of itself and they are trying to fill that shell with as many bullet spitting viral infected super 
 beings as they can. to be fair, this game is fun, it is pretty, it has a lot of action and has 
 some amazing characters, its just not resident evil anymore and its uniqueness is quickly depleting. 
 the threat now is bio-terrorism, and next time maybe they should just send in rainbow six rather 
 than chris redfield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dann_west
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  The long wait for resident evil 5 was well worth it. The solid combat and extremely high-end graphics 
 alone are enough to hold this game up.
  
  If you want an RPG-like action shooter, than this is the obvious choice. The controls are easy 
 to pick-up on and hard to put down. The Horror aspect to the series has been somewhat destroyed, 
 but in it's place is an action packed adventure that compensates some of the upset.
  
  The game is completely done in a co-op intended story. The solo and co-op campaigns are similar 
 in every way, although it is much more fun to plan with a friend, rather than the poor AI characters 
 that many games seem to burden you with. The statistics tracked for the game in the "records" section 
 are fairly extensive, not including the leaderboards system that keeps track of all levels, game 
 types and difficulties. The mercenaries minigame is playable solo, or duo, and scores are tracked 
 for both separately.
  
  Apparently, there will also eventually be DLC on the XBL Market to add a versus game type.
  
 
  The only disappointment I received really was the further butchery of the storyline and the lack 
 of horror that the game originated off of.
  
  In conclusion, if you and a friend plan on picking up a game to share, this is worth the time and 
 money.
  
  SUMMARY:
  
  The Good: 
  Amazing graphics, satisfying kills/executions, Fully compatible co-op throughout the entire campaign 
 and "Mercenaries" minigame, action packed, loads of bonus content, RPG like inventory
  
  The Bad:
  Gameplay can be ruined by poor AI if not playing in co-op, The Resident Evil storyline 
 undergoes further punishment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cod5gamerkid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I waited a while for this video game to hit the New Release rack at GameStop! Once it did I still 
 couldn't reach the disc, especially with NO MONEY! I had to do something so I looked around the 
 room finding my old Wii, I sold it for the greatest game I have played yet! The game is great with 
 its graphics, couldn't look more real for a video game! The story is still remaining great with 
 all the T-virus stuff put into it! The zombies aren't real zombies unlike most video games which 
 is what is cool about it! They are more like infected people with the Virus! The game gets better 
 and better as you go on and so do others like the enemies and the WEAPONS! I played farther just 
 upgrading my handgun which is the one you get to start with and the weapon turned out real good 
 until I needed more power. I just bought the thrid that you can! You can pretty much choose what 
 you want to do, work your way to beating the game or just replaying levels to gain achievements 
 and cash! They seemed to make it mor e like a RPG game then a adventure shooter, which is also 
 very interesting! The game as I said is worth looking at and renting if your new to the Resident 
 Evil series, but if you aren't new and you like Resident Evil movies and Capcom's games then this 
 video game will blow your brains out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angelodivita
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 has been watering the mouths of gamers all over the world since the first previews. 
 Though initially stirring some controversy on the setting and choice of enemies, the game pulled 
 through with the original intentions intact. While straying from quite a few of the series origins, 
 it still has that unmistakable Resident Evil flavor and delivers a tense and action-packed storyline. 
 This time, you and a friend can take the challenge on in co-op mode, a highly welcome addition.
 
  
  The Good:
  
  - The co-op mode adds a great amount of replay value and fun to the game modes. This also allows 
 for more strategizing when tackling enemies.
  
  - Beautifully detailed environments that you can appreciate. A lot of attention was put into the 
 little things here, and that goes a long way in today's gaming world.
  
  - A wide array of weapons available to dispose of your enemies. Most of which are upgradeable with 
 money you earn for completing missions.
  
  - Great cinematics! The cutscenes were impressive and often will involve the player by requiring 
 buttons to be pressed during them.
  
  - Very detailed character models. There isn't a second guess about the graphics, they are top notch 
 for this style of play.
  
  - Your weapons/inventory travel with you in online co-op. Show off your arsenal to your friends 
 and help them out with the items/upgrades you've obtained.
  
  - High replay value. With the different modes of play, upgrades, and XBox Live, one should be able 
 to find entertainment value here for quite some time.
  
  - Impressive boss battles. A golden staple of modern gaming, boss battles are alive and well here.
 
  
  
  The Not So Good:
  
  - Although a step up from AI partners you might take on in some other games, you may find some 
 habits to be frustrating. A way to improve this would be to have a few more command options for 
 your partner. The two basic commands (Attack/Cover) don't always get the desired reaction. One 
 way to avoid this ... play with a friend!
  
  - The puzzle element is basically non-existent in this game. What was a welcomed additive to the 
 previous installments has now been replaced by an action-driven style.
  
  - The survival-horror style of gameplay that Resident Evil is known for is starting to fade away. 
 Here we see a bigger step towards an action game with horror-themed enemies. Not a big detractor, 
 as there are other games stepping up to fill in that void, but it will be missed.
  
  In conclusion, a very well made game that should satisfy everyone from the casual gamer to the 
 fanatics. While I can understand the drive to compare, I wouldn't put too much concern on the comparison 
 between this and RE4. This is a new generation of RE gaming and still delivers an excellent experience 
 from start to finish and beyond. Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgmann16
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Indeed, playing RE5 is like having an old friend back from the dead. no pun intended there :P. 
 It seems lately that the best reviews I'm able to give are for sequels to games I've loved ever 
 since my tiny noobish fingers were capable of picking up a controller so many years ago. RE5 is 
 no different. There have been a great deal of people bashing this new entrance in the Resident 
 Evil saga and I have to say it upsets me. I understand it coming from those who are just picking 
 the series up because it appealed to the third person action shooter fan in them. This is most 
 definitely not just another Gears of War. However I was disappointed at the number of RE fans giving 
 this game mediocre reviews. Before I go into that however let me first address the aforementioned 
 new comers to the series. THIS IS NOT ANYTHING LIKE GEARS OF WAR. I'm sick of hearing the two compared 
 and if you truly find this statement to be mistaken then you're obviously not taking a good look 
 at RE5. That said, on to the fanboy doubters. The first words out of most fans mouth concerning 
 this game are as follows: "been there done that". It kills me to say it but they're right.... to 
 a degree. 5 is playing remarkably like 4 did. However I don't see this as a bad thing. Looking 
 back over the series you'll see the same thing. Why fix what's not broken? Many of the first few 
 installments in the series played very similarly. We appreciate a bit of familiarity when it comes 
 to the games we love. Now I suppose you could say that they should be doing what was done with 
 the Halo series or any number of other popular game collections, but I must disagree. Adding new 
 game mechanics to a sequel simply to give it a flashy new posterior is just masking the fact that 
 its not as good a game as the first. This is true of far too many games especially of the console 
 persuasion. While RE5 did bring many familiar mechanics from 4, I welcomed them with open arms. 
 Let me explain why. First of all, I find the environment story and characters of this game to be 
 far more compelling than those of 4. Leon was definitely a badass for a slightly emo police rookie 
 out of raccoon city, but Chris Redfield is much easier to identify with if you ask me. While they 
 both originated in Raccoon City I can't help but feel as though Chris has been part of the family 
 longer. It also helps having Jill Valentine play a very important, if somewhat predictable, role 
 in this game. Your new partner Sheva isn't quite as compelling but I'll give her a break as she's 
 a departure from the typical zombie fighters we've seen in the past and she does have a cute but 
 firm aspect about her. Continuing on I feel as though the African environment bot visually and 
 story wise was much more enjoyable than the European landscape from 4. To be fair much of this 
 stems from the evolution of things already introduced in 4 so I can't be too prejudice. It also 
 helps that this is the first installment on next gen so it looks stunning. Everything felt extremely 
 fluid. Speaking of which let me move on to the enemies. I have to say that the dynamic AI that's 
 been added, while not revolutionary, has definitely made the game more challenging and enjoyable. 
 The "zombies" have very characteristic styles and aren't complete idiots when it comes to trying 
 to rip you apart. The familiar process of finding an enemy's weak spot and exploiting it is well 
 done as always and manages to not be stale simply due to the fact that there are plenty of new 
 baddies. I also love a game that doesn't force you to fight your way through every situation. There 
 are plenty of instances in RE5 that require the brains to outwit or even run away from an enemy 
 rather than mindless pumping lead into their surprisingly resilient bodies. And now we come to 
 the core feature of this game: co-op. Thank god they finally came up with a co-op system for RE5. 
 I'll admit I was excited if a bit nervous when they first announced this feature, but I think they've 
 pulled it off in classic style. Many people have complained that the partner AI is retarded, and 
 yes they are right to some extent. However I think this only reinforces that its a co-op game.. 
 not a singleplayer campaign that added co-op functionality as some **** way of making it more fun. 
 I'll take the former to the latter any day. The game did a fantastic job of making you feel as 
 though your partner was necessary rather than a burden when playing with someone. Splitting up, 
 while necessary at times, was often a stupid mistake to make which I learned quickly. Overall my 
 friend and I had a blast playing through this game customizing our loadouts to better fit our styles 
 and better counter certain enemy types. I'll admit that if you do choose to play alone you'll find 
 Sheva is more an extra inventory than anything. Its difficult to program a friendly AI well enough 
 to function as if it were truly another person playing alongside you. I only hope that eventually 
 Resident Evil could be the game to do it. For now I'll be satisfied with a slightly clunky partner 
 who has her ups and downs. I couldn't be happier that the gameplay hasn't changed too terribly 
 much. I would've been extremely upset by the idea of be able to run and shoot a its always been 
 a key part of these games. In all reality who is ever going to be able to run and shoot as accurately 
 as so many game protagonists these days, and I personally think that Resident Evil is one of the 
 only games that can get away with not allowing you such mobility. Patience and quick thinking have 
 always been rewarding in this series. I will note that the beefed up melee system made it much 
 easier to conserve ammo and gave me more interesting ways of approaching an enemy tactically so 
 I could eventually snap there neck or somersault kick them off a cliff. Very satisfying indeed 
 :) . As always there is never enough of Resident Evil to truly satisfy me, but the game was long 
 enough to make the story seem solid without dragging on too much. The last two chapters took considerably 
 longer than the first few which is typical and as much as I wish there were more crazed majini 
 to throw at me I'm glad story wasn't sacrificed to extend the game a few hours. All I an say is..... 
 LETS GO RE6!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom_dude
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:39 am PT
Review:  OK! First off, pretty good game, right?
  
  But not as good as it SHOULD be.
  
  The Bad: The laser freakin sight... It is THE WORST aiming system EVER
  put into any game EVER! 
 The laser sight makes it IMPOSSIBLE to aim
  long distances with a pistol/magnum/MG, etc. Reticule PL0X!?
  
  Another thing is the inventory 
 space.... WTF?!
  In RE4 you had SO much space in your 
  attache case, Now you've got like 9 spaces?
  
  Maybe they added less, because you can
  stack 
 more ammunition in one space?
  
  Who knows why, It's just annoying.
  
  
  The Good: Great graphics, Modern weapons (that have their actual names
  this time) Sheva's ass... Sheva's 
 ass..... Sheva's ass...... :D!
  
  Bigger hordes, Bigger monsters, and you get to kick Wesker's snobby ass.
  
  The 2P Co-Op is 
 OK, But laggy. I dont recommend playing offline
  Co-Op, Unless you've got a hard drive.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredmc
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  Played the RE4 on the cube. Good game - best in the series, until this one, but this is not that 
 much better, I bet there are a few people with the 'more of the same' type comments.
  
  #1 Issue:
  You cannot run while using a weapon? This one little thing is really a big boo-boo 
 IMO. Imagine in Halo or Gears having to stop to fire a weapon? How friggin' weird would that be... 
 booooring too.
  
  Even if this game is not classified as a shooter - this is a really noticeable omission for a game 
 like this, not matter what it is classified. 
  
  #2 What is her name?
  Don't really like having a partner (whoever that is) that if I send her off by selecting "combat" 
 she wastes her ammo on one zombie where I can drop the same character with 4 shots from the pistol, 
 she empties a clip from the machine gun. My fault for giving it to her I guess eh? Numb. Then if 
 you select "cover" she is in your way.... jez. She is forgiven however for the nice nice ass. :)
 
  
  
  Ambiance is ok however, but nothing out of the ordinary and there is a lot better (Dead Space, 
 Doom3) . It is well done over all, however as with anything you do, it is the little things that 
 can effect the overall great potential of a game. 
  
  Sort of like that drop dead girl you met and on a scale of 10 is a 12+ and then she picks her nose, 
 or chews her finger nails until there are none left. 
  
  :-) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikal030
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  I've played all the RE games, all of them
  
  Back in the days of yor it made sense to not be able to move when you shot whatever you were packing. 
 Hell, most of your environments were not move around friendly since your were in a confined space 
 most of the time (IE hallway, tunnel or train car) even your "open spaces" were cluttered with 
 wreckage hampering your running and dodging efforts. 
  
  But as RE moves from Survival Horror to more of and action game I need my character to be able 
 to do more than side step. I like the ability to do a quick 180 and even move backwards. I'm just 
 not liking the fact that you can't move while you shoot - still. I'm not asking to run around like 
 an idiot and gunning everything in sight. All I want is to be able to move and shoot while walking. 
 This way you can cover your own retreat if you're just about to get overrun.
  
  Other than that I'm enjoying the game immensely.
  
  I know not the best sentence structure 
 but I don't care lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:36 am PT
Review:  Lately, it seems as though Japanese developers have bowed down before the commercial and artistic 
 logic of USA-based mainstream video-games. The loss of their cultural identity, as people and as 
 developers, has severely impoverished the video-game medium; "Resident Evil 5" is the latest sign 
 of that impoverishment. Because "Resident Evil 4" was already a very action-oriented game, it seems 
 that the developers at Capcom used the new sequel as a way to further step beyond the boundaries 
 of the survival horror genre into the action foray. It's a logical move from the big producer, 
 as it allows "Resident Evil 5" to reach a much wider audience, as the "Gears of War" and "Killzone 
 2" fans will surely be interested in buying the game, whether or not they were big fans of the 
 series before the last incarnation. The result of this commercial rationale is a game that is heavily 
 sustained by its ancestors design, but that incorporates much of the tropes present in modern shooters, 
 curiously enough, going as far as taking inspiration from games which "Resident Evil 4" itself 
 inspired ("Gears of War" comes to mind) . Such is "Resident Evil 5" greatest fault, the fact that 
 it destroys its individual identity as a survival horror, action-adventure game, by trading its 
 core ideas with the popularized elements of modern shooters.
  
  It is true however, that there was very little left in "Resident Evil 4" that could be associated 
 with its predecessors. Adventure motifs were all but absent, save for the occasional "fetch" puzzle, 
 and horror codes such as frights or psychological mind-games were completely missing. What wasn't 
 lacking however, was a creepy atmosphere and a tension oriented game-play that effectively forced 
 players to feel the stress of encountering the dangers of a massive zombie attack. The biggest 
 difference in "5" is that it lacks the quality aesthetic work that made its predecessor's atmosphere 
 so foreboding, and focuses solely on the empowering of stressful encounters with enemies. Keeping 
 in tradition with an Americanized view on entertainment, the first way of enhancing the sense of 
 stress and dread that the new "Resident Evil" feeds on is by upping the scale. On one hand, by 
 using bigger monsters and boss-fights, by delivering larger set-pieces and backgrounds for game-play, 
 and by increasing the sheer numbers of enemies that the player has to get rid of to finish the 
 game. A fair estimate would be that there are more zombies in "Resi 5" than in the rest of the 
 series all together. The other change in scale comes from one of the game's most important design 
 decisions: the co-op mode.
  
  Though "Resident Evil" always had more than one main protagonist to its stories, only the fifth 
 iteration allows players to play side by side with a friend. It's immediately obvious when you 
 pick up the controller and start playing, that the game was designed and tested to fit into co-op 
 play. Level design, inventory management, boss battles and even the rare puzzles all need a form 
 of cooperative effort to overcome difficulties. This cooperative dynamic allows co-op play to be 
 engaging, by making communication a valid asset for the development of mutual strategies, thus 
 increasing the liberty players have to tackle each scenario and each encounter. The downside is 
 that the game is so focused on co-op, that the single player mode becomes irrelevant and almost 
 unplayable. There's a good AI controlled companion there to assist you, but it's severely limited 
 in the ways in which it can communicate and interact with the player, making complex strategies 
 nigh impossible. And since the game makes its greatest asset that dual player logic, this transforms 
 the single player mode into an empty chore, filled with constant struggles to make the virtual 
 companion take the proper actions in order to pass each of the game's challenges.
  
  Truth be said, co-op makes for an exciting way of playing, and makes the game shine as a pure action 
 game, like few have been able to in the recent past. However, that isn't, nor ever was, the core 
 of the "Resident Evil" experience. This misunderstanding of the series' legacy, and its core design, 
 becomes fully apparent in the nature of the final levels of the game, in which it takes a form 
 that seems straight out of "Tomb Raider" - a large, eerie tomb from an ancient civilization filled 
 with small puzzles - or "Gears of War" - a military base populated with fully armed zombies, wrapped 
 around a cover-oriented level design scheme. And these are only the worst examples of the loss 
 of identity on part of this "Resident Evil", because even the when the game behaves similarly to 
 "4" it misses out on important notions of aesthetic that were integrate part of the series - by 
 using serious voice acting for a cheesy storyline, or daylight flooded African shanty towns as 
 a scenario for a horror tale.
  
  Every design choice in "Resident Evil 5" screams of an attempt at capturing American FPS audiences, 
 from the embodiment of action-oriented staples such as co-op play, a cover-based battle system 
 and epic-sized set-pieces, to the more buffed-up character designs and supposedly more serious 
 narrative. Trampled beneath these realizations is the past of "Resident Evil", completely forgotten 
 by the game's designers. Instead of trying to re-frame the action oriented nature of "4" in a an 
 action-adventure context, closer to the series' classic ideas, "Resident Evil 5" designers chose 
 to upgrade "Resident Evil 4" by taking inspiration from mainstream shooters. Had it been a thoughtful 
 reinterpretation of Capcom's most beloved series, then it might have been a unique game to explore, 
 but as it stands, it's as "unique" as the latest entry of "Killzone", "Call of Duty" or "Gears 
 of War". "Resident Evil 5" may be "bigger, better, more bad-ass", but there's already too much 
 of that around nowadays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellyrd88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:07 am PT
Review:  The good : Great graphics with plenty of detail, amazing multi player that keeps the game interesting 
 for a while, leader boards to keep people coming back and competing, a ton of unlock ables with 
 infinite ammo among other things, challenging, yet obtainable achievements
  The bad : Not much here on my behalf, it just never had that factor that made it a legendary game, 
 the door sequences became a little annoying, the multi player can be a bad experience with the 
 wrong person in your game.
  
  With this being the same style of RE that four was, five had most of the same elements with a lot 
 of them enhanced. I love the co op play online. The story draws you in with both of the characters 
 on the search for Chris' old partner Jill and you can ride it all the way to the end. Wesker has 
 always been an enjoyable adversary, so with all the battles against him makes for fun boss battles, 
 something that Code Veronica and RE4 lacked in my opinion. With the bad being so little, the only 
 reason I don't have this as one just doesn't have that thing that separates it from RE4 and makes 
 it an elite title. With all that said it is still a heavyweight title and a definite play for any 
 gamer off the genre of hardcore gamer period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usy911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:47 am PT
Review:  We all know Resident evil 4 was a all time classic, one of the best games of last-gen. Highest selling 
 & rated Resident evil game ever. Now Resident Evil is back this time in Africa on next-gen consoles 
 in the form of Resident evil 5. Now the question is does it lives up-to the hype?
  
  Answers is HELL YEAH...
  
  Iam not good in writing a very detail review, so here is my short 
 RE5 review...
  
  Good -:
  
  Super stunning visuals....
  Amazing character modeling and animation.
  Awesome boss fights better than RE4's... Bosses are 
 huge and well designed..
  Much more variety in game play than RE4... Different locations and fast pace action make it more 
 enjoyable than RE4.
  Save system is better than sucky typewriter save system.
  Inventory system is best till now...
  Co-op play works very well in RE5...
  Fight scenes are 
 so amazingly choreographed just like John woo movies..
  Controls are better than RE4..
  Solid story better than RE4's.
  Mercenaries mode is back... once you finish the game, you can 
 unlock it.
  You will have more fun in RE5 compare to RE4, because of variety in game-play & different location. Game 
 constantly hits with you surprises and cool moments.
  Vehicular levels add more variety and fun to game-play.
  Action in RE5 will keep you on the edge 
 of your seat the whole way through.
  
  
  
  Bad:-
  
  Game is little easy compare to RE4...
  Puzzles are insultingly easy...
  No 
 horror.. Game has few intense and thrilling moments but no Survival horror element like old RE games.
 
  Atmosphere in RE4 was better.. had a feel of old RE games.
  Sheva A. I is good.. but she can't manage her own inventory and she can become pain sometimes.. when 
 controlled by Computer.
  All Levels look different physically but all are very short...
  Auto save system.. Little easy game-play and less challenging puzzles makes RE5 shorter than RE4...
 
  It will take max 12 hours on first play-through.
  Last Boss fight was not that challenging.
  Nothing new or ground breaking stuff..
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  Overall Game is awesome.... MUST BUY for all.....
  
  
  :)
  
  Here is my short review, just pointing out main good & bad points. I hope you guys will like it :)
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star-Killer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:27 am PT
Review:  Story: The story of Resident Evil 5 is amazing as it follows the series primary protagonist Chris 
 Redfield and Sheva Alomar. Without spoiling too much all I can say is prepare to be blown away, 
 as the duo journeys to confront old friends and old enemies. The cutscenes are done extremely well 
 but I can't help but feel some things could have been fleshed out more and more elaborated upon.
 
  9/10
  
  
  Graphics: RE5 is a graphical powerhouse, some of the best graphics you will see on this generation. 
 Character facial expressions will amaze you and the amount of detail in the environments is unreal.
 
  10/10
  
  "The people here are acting like those Ganado from the Kennedy Report"
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is very similar to that of RE4. For those who haven't played that installment 
 it can best be described as an over the shoulder, action, shooter. One thing that many complain 
 about is the lack of the "run and gun" feature seen in many shooters of today, but you will get 
 use to it. Basic enemies also react similar to those in RE4 as they are infected villagers and 
 not zombies they will try to outnumber you and attack you with weapons. Co-op works fine and is 
 also one of RE5 shining points, as you'll love tackling down the near infinite enemies with your 
 friends. One thing that bothered me is the lack of diffuculty in the boss battles as I found myself 
 able to take most of them down even with limited ammo.
  8/10
  
  Overall: Resident Evil 5 is an "Instant Classic" that'll probably be remembered for years. Though 
 some fans will be put off by the lack of scary moments, which are near none existent in RE5, the 
 game shines in just about every other area. Hopefully you enjoyed this review now get out there 
 and kill some zombies........... well Manjini.
  9/10
  
  Chris Redfield: "More and more I find myself wondering if its all worth fight for. For a future 
 without fear.... Yeah its worth it"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I love Resident Evil, plain and simple. When this game was announced not long after Resident Evil 
 4 was put up on shelf's, I begun to salivate. If RE4 was anything to go buy, RE5 was going to bigger 
 and badder.
  
  Resident Evil 5, as anyone with a brain would know, is the next installment of the main storyline 
 games. It sees the return of veteran Chris Redfield, who must travel to Africa and locate a terrorist 
 selling B. O. W's (Bio-Organic-Weapon, or zombie creatures of all different varieties) . Upon arrival 
 he meets up with local, Sheva, who assists him on his mission. 
  
  Knowing full well they hit the hammer on the head, Capcom have opted to take the gameplay elements 
 from RE4 and use them again here. There are slight tweaks made to the overall play of the game, 
 such as inventory occurring in-game. No longer will you have to pause the game in order to pull 
 out that shotgun to take out that rapid zombie/thing running at you, no, instead it all happens 
 in real time. Even though this a very simple upgrade, it gives the game a feeling of urgency, an 
 element which I feel replaces the 'survival' aspect of past games. 
  The way you move and interact within the game world is basically the same, and personally I didn't 
 notice any such tweaks. 
  
  The AI is greatly advanced. Not only are your enemies faster, smarter than before, but your partners 
 AI (the lovely Sheva) is actually more or less the best I've seen. Since RE5 focuses a lot more 
 on co-op than previous titles, understandably Capcom have tried to implement something that plays 
 competently beside you, because face it, not everyone will want to play with someone else. 
  Sheva's AI abilities are quite limited. She'll respond to your orders, and at times take it upon 
 herself to collect ammo/health/money. In terms of shooting and engaging the enemy, she's more or 
 less useless, depending on the situation, since she'll simply aim for the body, firing off everything 
 she has. A handy tip is to arm her only with a hand-gun, and steal her ammo until you start unlocking 
 the more powerful weapons for yourself.
  
  Speaking of enemies, RE5 returns to the Las Plagas school of thought, with the attentional new 
 creepy thrown in for good measure. Run of the pill baddies function the same as those in RE5, though 
 a bit more advanced. In later sections, said enemies are armed to the teeth with automatic weapons, 
 which pose a real threat if your not careful. 
  Resident Evil has always had larger than life bosses, and it doesn't let up here. Progressively 
 you'll face bigger bosses, some of which are variants of earlier ones (yet doesn't mean there entirely 
 'easy')
  
  The pace at which you play through this linear-mapped game is even, and well thought out. Logically 
 you move from a village, to a swap, to oil field and so on and so forth. The action is fast, and 
 set pieces inject are real anxious feeling, putting you onto the edge of your seat. 
  
  Visually this game is stunning. Lately every major release seems to set a new standard in HD graphics, 
 but for money RE5 takes the cake. Lighting is an amazing thing in this game, creating a tense atmosphere, 
 and making everything looking stunning.
  Sound again, is amazing, as always in RE games
  
  I can't think of much negative's to say about this game, except that sometimes frame rate drops, 
 and the AI does a complete turn around and aspires to stupid. 
  Resident Evil 5 isn't perfect, no, that title is reserved for Resident Evil 4. This game simply 
 takes perfection and strays just a little too far from what Resident Evil is all about.
  Being said, bottom line is, Resident Evil 5 is a fantastic game. If you don't like stop and gun 
 gameplay, then look somewhere else. It could had possibly have done without the co-op mode, and 
 perhaps a little more terror than action, but Resident Evil 5 is a fantastic action/horror game 
 that further cements this franchise as a AAA material 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboi5406
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  All of the reviews for this game have been centered around a few things. Everyone seems to comment 
 on the running/shooting situation. It's a Resident Evil game. Shooting while running has never 
 been part of the game, and probably never will be. It doesn't take anything away from the gameplay, 
 or cause any additional difficulty (or maybe that's just the case if you know what you're doing) .
 
  
  The game is simply astounding. Aside from the obvious out-of-this-world visuals, the story is as 
 immersive as any Resident Evil to date, the multiplayer works great, and the weapons are great. 
 They took everything Resident Evil 4 did right, and expanded on it. They took everything Resident 
 Evil 4 did wrong (beartraps and Ashley) , and did away with it. The game plays just as well as 4 
 did, and has an amazing amount of extras and reasons to keep you playing, as if the game itself 
 wasn't reason enough. I found myself, as soon as I had finished the game, saying, "Well, let's 
 play through it again". 
  
  That being said, I do have a few gripes. The most major of which: Sheva. It is great to have a 
 teammate helping you through the game and being part of the story. And it's great to be able to 
 play as her after you beat the game the first time. But, there are times where it seems her AI 
 was modeled after a 5 year old. You have to constantly tell her to get ammo for the guns she has. 
 And you have to constantly race her for the ammo you don't want her to have. Example, she had an 
 Assualt Rifle, a Sniper, and a powered down handgun. I had an upgraded handgun, and a shotgun. 
 She would walk right past the machine gun ammo, and the rifle ammo, and constantly go for the handgun 
 and shotgun ammo. She spends ammo like she has an unlimited supply, even on bosses. Most notably, 
 she used every bullet she had on every gun while on a boss when there were two turrets, and two 
 rocket turrets with infinite ammo available. At times, she'll also stand there while you get attacked 
 by countless zombies.
  
  Problem #2: Splitscreen. I understand there were limited ways to do the splitscreen while keeping 
 faitful to the widescreen nativity, but I feel like it could have been thought out a little better. 
 You lose almost 50% of your screen to blankness. On a 32" TV, it gets a little tough to see your 
 individual screens. I can't imagine how it would look on a smaller screen.
  
  Those being minute points, the game is simply incredible. It brought back some of the best things 
 from the previous game, introduced new characters, brought back old characters, and even gave you 
 Resident Evil history during loading screens (which were usually too short to read the full fact, 
 but complaining about too short load times seems kind of insane) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrownfi
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  The visuals were absolutely stunning. There were times that I found myself just looking around 
 at the scenery near and far. The controls while a bit unconventional quickly grew on me and became 
 second nature. 
  
  I have been told the AI isn't that great for your partner when playing single player but I have 
 mainly been playing with a friend via Xbox Live. 
  
  My only complaint is the new play Capcom has came up with for the Resident Evil Games. While it 
 is new, fun and refreshing I do miss the Survival Horror aspect of the predecessors. Ammunition 
 conservation was key and at times I found myself walking into a room, hear some scuffling and I 
 was turned around running back out the door, taking a breath and trying to get through the room 
 again. For the next one I would like them to remove the amount of ammunition drops and maybe perhaps 
 the top down perspective. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  When I played the demo I really wasn't into it. Too much like resi evil 4 which at the time was 
 revolutionary for this series in the way it played but still too cumbersome in the controls. The 
 very essence of survival horror games is you have the control to react and make quick informed 
 decisions. For me this game didn't let you do that too clunky. Don't get me wrong I LOVE RESIDENT 
 EVIL! They have all been fantastic games and as you play it you learn to love the controls in normal 
 game but begin to hate them again in boss fights.
  
  This is rather a short review from me, this game is brilliant and a 9 imo. As a continuing supporter 
 of the series and as I own all consoles since 1984, yes ataris and everything this series only 
 continues to grow stronger and stronger (it got pretty low at survival but hell mario had a dip 
 with mario hotel) . Im really excited to see where it goes after this after we are mopping up further 
 loose ends to the classic original game.
  
  
  Great game, give it a chance, I mean finish it before you start slating it. As a side note however 
 I think dead space impressed me the most in this genre and if these two are their own competition 
 we can only see great things in their successors. Come on capcom don't have us waiting 5 years 
 again! The games are top class.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincePwnStar
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this game is probably not the best game for everyone. But in my opinion it is the best game 
 I have played on my 360. 
  
  Pros
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics
 
  Art
  Story
  Replay Value - Unlocks
  Co-op
  Addictive
  
  Cons
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Partner 
 AI
  Sometimes controls
  Addictive
  
  
  Resident Evil 5 really impresses you from the start in the graphics area. As your walking through 
 1-1 of the game you can easily notice the buildings, lighting, shadows, character modeling, even 
 the texture on the uniforms. This has to be one of the best graphical games on the Xbox 360 at 
 the moment of this review.
  
  The art of the game is really pleasing; you still have that old RE feel to it but updated. The 
 monster design is great, the bosses are really detailed, the environments are fun to be in, and 
 if you buy the limited edition or the limited edition strategy guide you get the extra sketches 
 and concepts which is great! Really makes you appreciate how much work they put into it.
  
  I chose the story as a pro, because it does tend to pull you in. It does not require you to have 
 played all the RE games before to understand what is going on. For those who have get some tie 
 in between them, but for those who have not you can easily catch up. In most of the story it does 
 have it's own. For example if you do not know who Jill is then it wouldn't really matter because 
 he does explain to you.
  
  Some might start on the easier or normal mode to get the feel of the game and then play veteran 
 and professional and some might go straight into veteran. It really does not matter because if 
 you beat the game either way you can still go back and get all the collectibles, upgrade all your 
 guns, unlock mercenaries mode, try to beat it with in a certain amount of time, and get infinite 
 ammo on all your weapons + more. They are also going to be offering download content such as versus 
 multiplayer modes. Even in mercenaries mode you can unlock characters to play with along with outfits 
 for them.
  
  The introduction in co-op brings a lot more fun into the game, being able to play an RE game with 
 your friends is just that much more fun. You can create your own play style, run and gun or stay 
 back and let them come to you. Along with having someone with shotgun and melee down in the mess 
 of things and someone with rifle and grenades staying back picking them off.
  
  This game is highly addictive, even after beating the game I still have the urge to go back and 
 play it some more. I want to unlock everything, and play mercenaries and just keep practicing my 
 head shots.
  
  Some of the cons I listed are not huge, being that I still beat the game with the partner AI. They 
 are minor but still worth mentioning. I will try and explain the best I can with out using spoilers. 
 
  
  The partner AI is great most of the time, but there are times when you just wonder.... really? For 
 instance, there are times in areas where both of you are firing at enemies.... and the AI says to 
 aim for this spot on this monster... if your in the way or not. She will just unload a clip into 
 you wasting ammo. Other times, when you are able to take cover, you may be able to take cover but 
 sometimes she will just stand out in the middle.... taking the bullets. There are times when you 
 do not need to sit there and kill every mob also, and she will waist bullets. Also, some monsters 
 come at a point if you walk to far.... if the mobs will spawn running after her and she will train 
 them to you.
  
  I have addictive as both a pro and a con. I placed it under con also because, once you sit down 
 and start playing this game you will wonder where the time went. After playing it for two to three 
 days straight you will probably beat it and start craving more... that and you might neglect other 
 responsibilities like sleep.
  
  In summary this is a great game, very addictive. Probably a GotY contender in my eyes. It is fun 
 and rewarding at the same time. You may wonder well, brand new it is $60.00... I can wait for the 
 price to drop. I don't see the price of this game dropping too soon from the time of this review.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I'll repeat it again, excellent game as long as you know what to expect. RE 5 builds on the changes 
 that RE 4 brought about to the Resident Evil series. What once used to be a game based on puzzles, 
 slow lumbering zombies, limited ammo, and a wierd control scheme is now becoming a bonifide action 
 adventure game. 
  
  Let's get this out of the way: You cannot move and shoot at the same time. Wierd, I know, but once 
 you get used to it its not too bad. I think Capcom does this so that it isnt compared to other 
 3rd person action games (like Gears of War) , even though their official reasoning is to keep action 
 tense. If you have played RE 4, or like the Resident Evil series in general you'll dig it instantly. 
 If you are new to Resident Evil I highly recommend you download the demo and give it a shot. You'll 
 get used to the controls quick enough and it really makes handling groups of enemies (which happens 
 often in this game) a lot more exciting (compared to handling groups of enemies all the time in 
 other action adventure games) .
  
  Now that that is out of the way let's talk about the game itself. The story is solid, harkening 
 back to characters from Resident Evil's past, voice-overs are a little stiff, but still decent. 
 Playing solo with Sheva isn't a hassle at all. Not only can she handle herself pretty well, but 
 she reacts logically and helps out when you are really in a pinch. The graphics are outstanding, 
 and taking the series outside allows the scenery to really stand out.
  
  Resident Evil 5 really shines in multiplayer. It may be a pain to just "jump into" (check points 
 and level restarts only) its a lot of fun to play with somebody else.
  
  The Good - graphics, controls (yes i like the controls) , smart partner AI, good addition to the 
 RE story
  
  The Bad - no "jump in" multiplayer
  
  The Ugly - nothing worth mentioning
  
  Note: I've read some reviews that state the load times 
 are pretty long. I downloaded the game to my HD and the load times are very quick.
  
  Note 2: I really dug the remake of Resident Evil 1 for the Gamecube... while i don't want to play 
 RE 1 again, i would like to see what the series would be like if it went back to its roots on current 
 gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  The saga continues. First let me give you some of my background so you know where im coming from. 
 Back in the day i didnt really care for Resident Evil games. I didnt like the controls or the views 
 or the bad guys you faught (mutating freak shows) . I just wanted a good zombie game. I've tried 
 "most" of the REs and even beaten a couple but didnt really ever care about them or have warm fuzzies. 
 
  
  RE4 changed all that with better views and somewhat better controls and although they changed from 
 Virus to Parasite I still thought the monster sucked but I just had a better time than any previous 
 RE game. It had some nice distractions to with treasure collecting and weapon upgrading that kept 
 you coming back for more even after beating the game. 
  
  So I was only like 1/5 in RE games so I didnt have much hype over RE5. I knew it would have pretty 
 much the same combat but didnt know much else about it.
  
  Well I think it is the best RE game I have played to date. Im not giving it a 10 because i think 
 the game is perfect, far from it. But I think this will be a legendary and classic game that will 
 stand the test of time.
  
  The story is cool and as you play through the game you learn about the immedeate storyline but 
 you also unlock thing in this "Library" section of the menu screen and they go into great detail 
 about the entire history of RE games and some of the specific characters and if you haven't played 
 through all the stories that alone is a great feature.
  
  The controls are basically the same as RE4. Over the shoulder aiming using a laser light, a knife. 
 You do have more melee attacks than before but they are situational. You go through the entire 
 game with a partner and you can sorta tag team people with melee attacks to.
  
  Not only do you have an AI partner through most of the game who acts like a pack mule/auto turrent 
 a friend can also take control of the partner and the game becomes splitscreen co-op. This alone 
 puts RE above and beyond every previous version. You dont even have to go online to do it which 
 is the best part. Yay for offline love. The second player uses their own profile and has to customize 
 their own crap and unlock their own upgrades. You could buy and upgrade weapons for them but you 
 would have to carry it into battle and then transfer it which you may or may not have room for.
 
  
  You only get 9 inventory slots to hold weapons, ammo, and armor. 4 of the slots correspond to the 
 4 directional buttons so that you can easily swap weapons or gear in the middle of battle. But 
 overall you will probably run around with all your weapons on one person and use the other person 
 as a pack mule.
  
  In RE4 there was treasure in chests and in monsters and hidden in walls and objects and you could 
 combine them and sell them for tons of money. For some reason they took out the ability to combine 
 treasure but there is still tons of loot to find in RE5 and its very much needed to upgrade your 
 weapons.
  
  When you finish a stage you get graded on your accuracy, kill count, deaths, and time for an overall 
 rating. Your overall rating determines how many points you get. You use these points to unlock 
 3d models of all the monsters and people in the game, also to unlock infinite ammo for each weapon 
 you fully upgrade (once you beat the game) , and additional character costumes. Hidden through-out 
 "most" of the stages are BSAA (the organization you now work for) emblems. This was also in RE4 
 and that mysterious vendor guy gave you map or something which made them show up on your radar 
 to help you out. Well I havent gotten nothing to help find them in RE5 but some of the 3d models 
 and costumes in the game can only be unlocked after you find a certain amount of emblems (30 in 
 all) . When you goto stage select you can see how many medals each stage has and how many you have 
 collected. A bad thing in my opinion is that even after you shoot a medal while going through a 
 stage it will show back up when you go through again. They should have permanently disappeared 
 so you wouldnt have to remember if that was one you hit before or not.
  
  Once you finish the game you also unlock this Mercenary Mode. You will eventually get to choose 
 from like 10 characters to play as in this mode but you only start with the two main characters. 
 Anyways you start with basic gear and you play on some of the stages you have already gone through (which 
 have to be unlocked beyond the first one by getting high scores i think) . The goal is to rack up 
 huge points before time runs out by killing infected. killing peoeple quickly gives a combo bonus, 
 and performing certain kills gives you bonus time. I totally suck at this mode. Maybe if I learned 
 how to get nice time extensions and easily build up combo's I would enjoy it more but i think the 
 mode sucks as it is right now.
  
  If they would have removed the time limit and just made it a survival mode where you just keep 
 fighting until you eventually die or a kill count mode where you keep going until you reach a certain 
 number of kills and maybe get graded by how long it takes you this mini-game would have been MUCH 
 BETTER. You can play this mini-game in splitscreen cop-op also.
  
  There are a couple of things I wish were different. I wish the mercenary mode had been more of 
 an endless wave of enemies mode, After you beat the game you get to play as Sheva your partner 
 whenever you want but her over the shoulder view is to the left because she is always on the right 
 side of the screen and aiming with her is a huge pain in the butt because Chri's huge butt is always 
 in the way and her laser lights are screwed up and dont point in the right direction. Unlocking 
 infinite ammo for your weapons is also incredibly tedious and by the time you do 2-3 three you 
 will be sick to death of playing the game and not even want to use them. 
  
  Overall though this is the best time I have had with a Resident Evil game so I would have to highly 
 recommend that if you liked RE4 then you should BUY RE5. If you didnt like the way RE4 turned out 
 then you probably wont like RE5 either because its basically RE4 only with splitscreen co-op (also 
 has online co-op) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da-Ruler
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  Well what can i say but BLOODY AWESOME.
  
  Its amazing how capcom have managed to intergrate human facial expressions and much more into this 
 game.
  
  The over the shoulder view is hard to get used to if you havent played resident evil in a long 
 time like i hadn't, but even so the view is amazing graphics are amazing and the weaponary choice 
 is brilliant.
  
  Through the game i found my self shoutting at the top of my voice because of the the infected on 
 me and sheva isnt doing a thing. I also found my self wantting to throw my controller at my tv 
 at the end of the game bacause of the share intensity that the last chapter holds.
  
  The detail put into this game is amazing anyone who has played this will know what i am talking 
 about the cutscenes are just brilliant however a bit lagging in some dimensions.
  
  The enemies are now more aware of you and dont stand around waiting for you to shoot them, they 
 attack as soon as they see you, which inturn makes this a great game to play.
  
  The weapons which are a bit lacking at first get better and better through out the game, which 
 is good as the enemies get harder and harder.
  
  (SPOILER)
  
  The ending is amazing, finally killing Albert Wesker while hes still got his super human strengh 
 and is infectted with uroboros. After all it wouldnt be an ending if you didnt face the hardest 
 boss ever created.
  
  Overall i give this a game a 10/10
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Storyline 10/10
  Weapons 10/10
  Everything else 10/10
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediRiff
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 6:40 am PT
Review:  I was actually convinced by a friend to buy this game, for the co-op fun we could have, but I was 
 not happy with the idea. I was so sure I was going to regret spending my money, that I was shocked 
 within the first few minutes with how much I was enjoying the game. It only continued to get better, 
 with graphics bordering photo realism, intense gameplay, and complete immersion into the game with 
 my friend. I am extremely happy I chose to listen to him and pick this game up, and I would highly 
 recommend the same to anyone else. I will not go into any details of the story here, because I 
 dont want to spoil anything for anyone, so I will leave it at this: This game is the best I have 
 played this year, thus far.... easily. Pick it up! I can assure you that you wont be disappointed, 
 especially if you have a friend to play co-op.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is a very fun and intense game based around a co-op campaign. It doesn't try to 
 scare as much as it predecessors and probably has more shooting than it needs, but it still an 
 exciting ride. Your first time through will probably take about 6-10 hours depending on the difficulty 
 and how thoroughly you search for extras. However, the game also has a considerable amount of bonuses 
 to unlock which do a good job at compelling you to complete the game multiple times, and on the 
 harder difficulties. There is also the included Mercenaries mode, which adds a timed race to kill 
 zombies for points, which can be played alone or with a friend. 
  
  Overall, I feel the game is worthwhile and enjoyable. However, if you're looking for a reason not 
 to buy this game, there are a few. The first is that the game loses most of the situation fear 
 from the original games. Not only is your character a Zombie Slaying expert now, but he also gets 
 consistent help for the first time. Also, there are several of shooting sections in the game. Now, 
 I'm a shooter fan, but this game was not designed to be a shooter and these sections stand out 
 as some of the weakest portions of the game. Finally, the game is not terribly long. Despite the 
 extras and incentives for replaying it, if you're not big on replaying games then you wont see 
 the value on this title.
  
  Those flaws, I believe, are outweighed by the games highlights. First, the graphics are just beautiful. 
 You'll visit a lot of diverse locations and each one is a painstakingly detailed as the previous. 
 The character models are just as detailed and the animations are fluid and well made. Second, there 
 are some fun bosses. Though you know when they're coming many of them are just so over the top 
 and you have to figure out how to defeat them. Adding to that, is the music. The audio knows just 
 when to get intense and it helps to keep you on edge while playing through the story. Also, co-op 
 works great. Whether you're playing local, online, or by yourself the 2 person dynamic is well 
 thought out and partners in this game really do rely on each other. For that reason, its great 
 that the computer AI when playing solo is very good. She might die occasionally, but she holds 
 her own most often and will likely save you on many occasions. Finally, I'd say that the controls 
 work. For people who played the demo, this might be a shock but in the game, it works. The slower 
 pace adds to the intensity and you'll never find yourself fighting the controls.
  
  So, Resident Evil 5 is a great game with many highlights and a few flaws. I'm pretty happy having 
 experienced it and am glad to own it so I can spend more time killing zombies and completing the 
 bonus objectives. If you're only going to give it a once through, it would make a very nice rental, 
 but there are plenty of reasons to give this game more time. However you play it, the game is fun 
 and most people will enjoy it, if they give it a shot. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl4ck_hawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:17 am PT
Review:  First of all let me start this by saying Resident evil 5 is a fantastic action packed game. The 
 story mode is fun start to finish and merceneries mode is extremely addictive. The series has been 
 known for its scary enviroment, horrifying zombies and brain thinking puzzles. It was until Resident 
 Evil 4 when the series changed forever with an over-the-shoulder camera view, faster and smarter 
 enemies, and a lot more action pack. 
  Resident evil 5 follows this formula very closely with addition to Co-op.
  
  Story:
  Just 
 keep in mind that i don't want to give away much for the people who haven't played it so im gonna 
 keep it brief.
  Chris Redfield returns in Resident Evil 5 who joins the BSAA and goes to Kijuju in Africa. He meets 
 up with his new partner Sheva Alomar which then they fight people who are infected with the Las 
 Plagas Virus. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Resident Evil 5 is very similar to Resident Evil 4 gameplay wise.
  It still has the same camera 
 view, similar enemies and same controls. You still can't move and shoot at the same time but you 
 can aim specific parts of the zombies body to make them do something different, for example shooting 
 them in the bicep will disarm them, shooting them on the foot will make them fall over, etc. RE5 
 although has more physical attacks than RE4 and also has Co-op play (Split screen or online) . You 
 can still upgrade weapons such as speed, critical hit, power, etc (Which take a very long time to 
 fully upgrade every weapon) . Even though the campaign (Which can be completed in 10 hours) is reletively 
 shorter than RE4 the campaign offers a great action packed epic story with epic boss fights, great 
 storyline, a large amount of weapons, a fantastic range of enemies all shapes and sizes, many treasures 
 to find and Co-op play.
  Merceneries is back and better than ever, more levels and Co-op support, which is addictive as 
 hell. 
  Some people may say the controls are out dated but to me it's still great.
  
  Graphics:
  RE5 has defenetly one of the best graphics on any platform. The animations are great, 
 the lighting effects are superb, the character models look fantastic and the environments look 
 exellent.
  
  Lasting appeal:
  RE5 has absolutly great replay value with many unlockables such as costumes, Figurines, Weapons 
 and merceneries mode.
  You can unlock graphic filters such as classic horror, Retro and Noise filters. You can also unlock 
 unlimeted ammo for each weapon if you fully upgrade it which takes a while. 
  But you will also keep coming back to the story mode to find all treasures, get all BSAA emblems 
 and get better ranks for the story.
  Even though all these extra unlockables are great the best unlockable is defenetly merceneries 
 which is a mode where you have to kill as many enemies as possible in the time limit. you can find 
 extra time which is found throughout each level which will give you more points. There are also 
 other characters you are playable (which im not going to reveal here encase i spoil it for anyone) 
 which is great because each character requires different strategies.
  
  
  Overall Resident Evil 5 is a defenetly one of the best games this Gen because of how many things 
 it offers. Although it didnt make as much of an impact as re4 did and has taking out alot of horror 
 which the series was known for, it is still a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daAnimal07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I was initially hesitant about picking up RE5 due to its suggested length. 12 hours doesn't really 
 seem like a bang for your buck. Still, I look for quality over quantity and RE5 gives just that. 
 The story is pretty much what you've come to expect from the series. It's not as flushed out as 
 RE4, but it does what it's supposed to do. It entertains you and gives you an incentive to progress. 
 So what all games are about is gameplay and RE5 plays pretty much like RE4. So many people would 
 agree that it is good thing that Capcom used RE4 as a template. RE5 is much more refined though. 
 Meaning a smoother time getting head shot chains put together. The biggest addition to the gameplay 
 is Co-Op. Its online or off and it is incredible. It takes away from the feeling of dread, but 
 adds to the game's overall fun. The last part of the package is the Mercenaries mode. Mercenaries 
 is pretty much a survival mode pitting one or two players against hordes of the infected. The goal 
 being to score as many kills as you can within the time limit. It's a blast to play online Co-Op 
 with another human. So all in all RE5 is an incredible game that deserves a slot in anyone's gaming 
 library. It defines what a survival-action game should be and with the promise DLC more goodness 
 is sure to come out of RE5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KepNaki24
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:27 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me explain that I was also displeased with Resident Evil 4, but RE4 is better than 
 this, I assure you. Being a fan of the old Resident Evil, Capcom has strayed from it's good old-fashioned 
 horror roots.
  
  Let's "try" to talk about something good about it.
  1. Multiplayer Option: That's probably the only good thing I have to say about this. The multiplayer 
 is fairly ok, if you have a good signal to play the darned thing.
  2. Chris Redfield: Every one of the **good** Resident Evil characters has at least two games featuring 
 them. Jill had 1 and 3, Claire had 2 and Veronica, Leon had 2 and 4, and Chris only had 1 (I guess 
 you could count Veronica, but it's not much of a big role for him) . But this has it's downside 
 as well, in my opinion it was released only to give Chris a second game.
  3. New Character: Sheva does bring an flavor to the story, but the flavor quickly deteriorates 
 as she gets a little bit more annoying as the story goes along. 
  
  Now, time to go to the bad (and I'm not gonna be nice with this) .
  1. Horribly Short Campaign: 
 I barely played it for a full day when I got it, and already I was about halfway through the story. 
 At least with 4 it was a little bit long.
  2. Horrible AI: Not only does the enemy AI suck, so does your partners. If you stand in her way, 
 she'll keep shooting at you. The worst part is you take damage. Meanwhile, if you shoot at er, 
 she takes no damage. At least with Ashley, she would die if you shot her. 
  3. Wesker Waaaaaaaaaayyyyyyyy Overrated: This is my own personal hatred, but there is a cutscene 
 where Chris and Jill find Wesker and try to fight him. Wesker is almost like Neo with the powers 
 of Nightcrawler. Talk about overdoing it. 
  
  If you wanna waste $60 to get this because your a Resident Evil fan like I have, go ahead, but 
 honestly, don't even consider buying this game. You'd have better luck searching for the Playstation 
 versions of the old RE games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 20 Minutes
  
  The Plus: Adds onto the lore of Resident Evil, The Visuals 
 and sounds are top notch, We learn more about one of the most hated characters in RE, The setting 
 in Africa was a nice change they took a gamble and it paid off.
  
  The Negative: Bad AI, The inability to pause the game to change your weapon, Difficulty setting 
 seems unbalanced, The inability to buy ammo when your at your breaks between each level. I would 
 also have personally loved to see that salesman from RE4 pay a visit to this game it seemed like 
 a good change, Game also had a rushed feeling on the last few levels that I played.
  
  Score: 5 out of 10
  
  It's been over 4 years since we had another RE game that wasn't spin 
 offs like the Outbreak series or the RE Gun Games, this was the first legit sequel in 4 as we all 
 know RE4 took the series in a drastic new direction, which was severely needed the genre away went 
 the fixed cameras and static pre rendered backgrounds we had a whole new experience plus the third 
 person over the shoulder view was a breath of fresh air. 
  
  So did Capcom manage to successfully add to the mechanics that made RE4 so popular? Sadly, no it 
 didn't. Infact it was worst if that's believable I'm going to let everyone know that I didn't finish 
 this game, yes you heard me correctly I didn't finish this game. The main reason is quite simple 
 I was too frustrated almost everything in this game seemed to upset me at one point or another. 
 I'll start talking about them one at a time.
  
  In RE4 granted your character was alone of the majority of the time but when he was able he had 
 the girl there with him she didn't play much of a role but she had decent AI for a NPC if you aimed 
 your gun and she was between you and a enemy she would duck, I mean I tried so many times to shoot 
 her when she stood and she would duck it was almost impossible to shoot her if I did I don't remember. 
 But it seems they didn't give Sheva decent AI at all, to top it off not only did they not give 
 her anything decent in the way of AI but it seems they didn't give her AI at points during the 
 game case in point, I'd be shooting a enemy and my controller would vibrate like I'm being shot, 
 but my health meter isn't going down at all. I'm thinking "What the hell is going on?" Come to 
 find out my own Partner is shooting me, yes that's right my partner is so freaking stupid she couldn't 
 step to the side to shoot me. Granted I only noticed her doing this when she was using her pistol 
 but still getting shot by your partner is bad enough it doesn't matter what gun she's using. Also, 
 if there was a enemy between me and her unlike the NPC from RE4 Sheva didn't duck at all she would 
 just stand there looking at me with that "Hey how are you doing?" look on her face. Thus making 
 me move to the side to get in a shot and sometimes if that wasn't bad she would side step with 
 me, or she would somehow get behind me and start shooting me again thus wasting Ammo speaking of 
 Ammo I'll get to that in a minute, There are more issues with AI but I'll get back to that later 
 in this review onto the next issue at hand.
  
  Whenever I play a game for the first time I play on Easy just to get adjusted to the game every 
 time I played a RE game there was always ample amount's of ammunition to help me through the game 
 This was the case in RE for the PS and it lasted all the way to RE4 but for some odd reason even 
 on Easy it seemed that Ammunition was in high demand because for some reason no matter how much 
 I tried to safe it seemed that there was never enough and this is one of the reasons I quit playing 
 this game. It isn't the only reason but it's one of them, And if they did have Ammo for guns that 
 I picked up it was for guns that I had no use for IE Riffles now that I think about it the Riffles 
 had a over abundance of Ammunition just laying around but god forbid trying to build up a decent 
 amount for my hand gun. The other problem was the lacking AI that my partner had seemed to eat 
 up all the Ammo that I had because I kept having to supply it to her. Now I may be wrong it's been 
 about 3 years since I really played RE4 so if I'm wrong I'm sorry but I could swear that you could 
 buy Ammo from that traveling salesman that would appear in the game. After each level or section 
 or whatever you want to call it you would be given the chance to buy Weapons, Items (First Aid 
 Spray, Vests and so forth) but for some reason you couldn't buy ammo? Isn't that one of the fundlementals 
 of this game? You need ammo to continue on through the game No ammo, no completion of the game 
 because I'll be honest no ammo really makes me pissed. But oh wait that's right they do supply 
 you with ammo you can buy. Grenade launcher ammo which is over halfway into the game! Once again 
 this is one of those guns I didn't really have any use for, infact I can tell you I only used that 
 gun on three certain types of enemies one enemy was that bat like creature another was those bugs 
 that had a weakness for electricity and finally those big enemies with the mini guns those were 
 the only three types I used that gun on. I don't get it they sell you ammo for the grenade launchers 
 but not the others? Is this a Joke? 
  
  Next up that I got to talk about is the whole real-time weapon switching this is something that 
 really upset me because unless you know how to hot link your weapons you're a dead man walking. 
 Every RE game you could pause the game and switch your weapons without having to worry but they 
 thought "Hey lets take one of the best parts of the RE games and just yank that out real-time is 
 the way of the future." I understand trying to evolve a games mechanics because of the times changing 
 but trust me some things are meant to be kept this is one of the most pivotal parts of the RE games. 
 I really hope that they bring back the ability to pause a game. I tried to understand the whole 
 real-time weapon changing aspect but when your being flanked by 5-7 enemies plus nearly indestructible 
 bugs you need to be able to change your weapons and relax doing it, it shouldn't be something that 
 brings on panic attacks it doesn't help you have a brain dead AI trying to help you either. 
  
  Next up whatever happened to the whole customizable weapons that you could make in RE4? They 
 had Upgradeable weapons in RE5 but nothing really customizable and I really didn't feel anything 
 being upgraded the only thing I could definitely tell that was upgraded was the ammo max count 
 which didn't really help because it only burnt through my limited ammo anyway. This was another 
 thing that was lacking that I really wished was in this game. Your telling me that there isn't 
 one customizable weapon part at all in the country of Africa? There are two huge pharmaceutical 
 companies based in that area and your telling me they didn't have anything you could use? When 
 they do RE6 and they will I hope they bring back this aspect it was one of the most fun parts.
 
  
  Earlier in my review you may remember me talking about the lacking AI my partner had? Well if your 
 partner was dumb as a box of Rocks you would think that the enemies would right? Nope it seemed 
 that all the AI was built into the enemies which was unfair because it seemed that most of the 
 time, not all but most of the time I was fending for myself the AI was really unfair I have to 
 admit, when they can think of huge tactics to kill me and they did and all my partner does is shoot 
 me something isn't right. If AI is one problem another was Difficulty.
  
  Speaking of Difficulty it's now time to talk about this, as I said in the beginning I played this 
 game on Easy and even on Easy it seemed that this game was way to hard, it seemed like I was playing 
 on Hard or Veteran or whatever it is called. The enemies were way too hard for this setting and 
 it's because this along with the lame AI and lack of Ammunition that I couldn't complete the game. 
 Which is sad because this is the first ever RE game I had to put down and not finish, Capcom I'm 
 ashamed of you.
  
  Now onto the next issue, it seemed that they did a great job with the way the game looked during 
 the first %50 of the game but after that initial hump it just looked blah, I mean it looked like 
 they rushed this game in the end they threw colors out and made images but it wasn't as nice as 
 it was in the beginning of the game. I'd rather wait a year or two more if they took their time. 
 For $60 I want my game to look good and considering this game came from Capcom which is one of 
 the standards for excellence you would think that they would have done everything possible to make 
 this game look good. I'm really wondering if all their time went from making this game to working 
 on Street Fighter 4 no offense intended to any SF fans out there.
  
  Last but not least this isn't much of a negative but just a question, where was the salesman from 
 RE4? I would have loved to see him in this game. 
  
  Not all of the game was bad, now onto the good.
  
  First and most importantly the story in 
 this game was great, it even was on par with RE4 this story had everything in it, it had a man 
 who's hurt it had the history of Wesker it had a new partner trying to fill the boots of someone 
 who was a legend. This game had it all. I don't think you could cram anymore story into this game. 
 
  
  Resident Evil 5 picks up with Chris Redfield being driven to a no name (I think it's a no name 
 if it had a name I missed it) town in Africa to meet his partner and determine if Bow's are in 
 the vicinity, after the events of RE Code Veronica Chris is now a member of the BSAA which is a 
 group that was created to take out all Bio threats no matter what. Shortly after meeting his partner 
 it's clear this isn't the same Chris we all know something is bothering him than during a memory 
 he remembers looking at a headstone and it had the name of Jill Valentine later on we find out 
 what happened that Jill and Chris were on the trail of Wesker their former captain in Stars back 
 all the way in their first RE game. 
  
  A fight broke out Jill to protect Chris threw her and Wesker out of a window down to their "Deaths" 
 this leaves a lasting impact on Chris who thinks she's still alive could she be? Her body was never 
 found but we'll never know. I won't get further into it. Don't want to spoil it for anyone.
  
  The Visuals for the first %50 of the game were great it really showed off the power of the 
 Xbox 360. 
  
  The Voice Acting was great and the sounds overall were nice, it wasn't that bad at all infact once 
 again it sounded like it could have gone head to head with RE4.
  
  I would have loved to give this game a perfect 10 but sadly this game gets a middle of the road 
 5 out of 10 which is sad because this game had so much potential but Bad AI, The inability to pause 
 the game to change your weapon, Difficulty setting seems unbalanced, The inability to buy ammo 
 when your at your breaks between each level. I would also have personally loved to see that salesman 
 from RE4 pay a visit to this game it seemed like a good change, Game also had a rushed feeling 
 on the last few levels that I played. Held this game down to a level that is unacceptable. If you're 
 a collector of RE games like I am than I suggest you get it just for the story and to add to your 
 collection but if your not a die hard fan, I suggest you skip this one. Once more I hope Capcom 
 learns from their mistakes with this game and makes RE6 minus all the flaws this game had.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman1938
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Resident Evil religiously since its release on the Playstation. I have even 
 had the pleasure of playing the unreleased Resident Evil 1.5. I guess you can say I know the series 
 inside and out. 
  
  Resident Evil 5 cements the series in it's new fast paced action gameplay. Like Resident Evil 4, 
 it does away with many of the series trademark gameplay mechanics of the past. Unfortunately it 
 also does away with the survival horror aspect of the game. No longer are there grousome zombies 
 and pre rendered sceenes of gore. The game has truely come into its own as a full fleged action 
 game. A lot of the potential horror that was associated with the previous games was due to the 
 feeling of complete helplessness. Unfortunately now you work hand in hand with elite special forces 
 and a smoking hot African special forces agent. Most of the fear that a player once had about zombies 
 popping up around each corner has been replaced by anxiety and fear that while you are running 
 to get a decent vantage point, some monster is going to impale you or cut off your head with a 
 chainsaw. Don't get me wrong, I do love the gameplay, it just takes some getting use to after playing 
 survival horror Resident Evil games for almost a decade. 
  
  The game overall is excelent. It has an exciting story which continues from Resident Evil 4, and 
 new mechanics which keep the series exciting meanwhile never straying so far as to always include 
 some tedious but exciting puzzle. It is not as exciting as Resident Evil 4, but then most games 
 arn't. No matter who you are, if you own a 360 or PS3; make no mistake, BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackalbus
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:58 pm PT
Review:  If you're a big fan of RES'll quite enjoy this fifth installment, excellent grafics, good story, 
 quite interesting enemies, good atmosphere and very good movie sequences.
  
  The helper of the game is not exactly the best, the way you often and is fairly slow firing ... 
 but neither is it the worst, when you have the cure low life gives you bullets and helps you carry 
 many things that not only could the character and is quite nice and makes the company pleasant.
 
  
  The game can be fun if you play with a partnet in coop mode ... even the most to benefit from changing 
 weapons and divided andalusia zombies attacking you ... is a bit like Army of Two in that sense... 
 but you can use agro mode hehehe... but I think someone else can make the game more fun ...
  
  not very long but not too short ... has the perfect life and history is more and more complicated 
 and more exciting and can also act in some film sequences ...
  
  please buy it! and PLAY IT ... and in my opinion if you have a friend willing to live the adventure 
 you do it also, I believe that the cooperative game experience is more fun! So far the best of 
 2009... RE5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sic_Vita_Est
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a huge Resident Evil fan, but I have played through a couple of the games in the 
 series and can say that I appreciate them for what they are -- exciting, old-school, and challenging. 
 2005's Resident Evil 4 pulled these elements off with such finesse that I rank it as one of the 
 best games of all time.
  
  The problem with Resi 5 is that some of these elements are in fact detrimental to its experience 
 rather than beneficial. Being stuck in place while shooting, for example, is just plain annoying. 
 One may ask, "If it's annoying in 5, why wasn't it in 4?" I have a simple answer: because 4 wasn't 
 as action-oriented. Resident Evil has never really been a franchise based around heavy action sequences; 
 you'd get the occasional section loaded with enemies, but nothing to the extent of Resi 5. And 
 if number 5 chose that new direction -- fine, I'm not opposed to change -- but it had to make other 
 changes at the same time. Having a multitude of fast-moving enemies chasing you at all times makes 
 the old-school, "locked-in-place" movement obsolete. Standing in place while reloading will get 
 you killed. It's just that simple. And for a game that is based on frenetic, intense action, you 
 shouldn't have to consciously run into an empty corner in order to reload your shotgun.
  
  I'm being critical here. I'm a harsh critic. These things have been covered by nearly every other 
 review -- so I'll continue in brevity. The dialogue is cheesy. Character development is nearly nonexistent. 
 The controls aren't the best; the inventory system doesn't really work in heavy battle. It's short.
 
  
  ... But it's a fun game. I can't comment on the single-player experience, so my experience is based 
 on playing with a friend. Dividing ammo, concentrating on weapon types ("You get the shotgun, I'll 
 snipe from afar!") , and defeating enemies together is a blast. There is good chemistry between 
 Chris and Sheva, which grows stronger as the game progresses. And it's good times. You feel accomplished 
 when you beat something together, which is what co-op is all about. A slight gripe I had was that 
 sequences that really, essentially, required cooperation with one another were few and far between. 
 While most "levels" are beatable with one player, blasting zombies together is still a lot of fun -- I 
 just wish that there were parts that made you really rely on your teammate (I understand that there 
 is a limited amount of things you can do with an AI partner if you play single-player, though) .
 
  
  The graphics are amazing, the new characters are well designed (albeit poorly developed) , and the 
 music is what you'd come to expect from a Resident Evil title.
  
  I would recommend this game to a Resident Evil fan with a friend. Co-op is where it's at with this 
 game if you're planning on buying it. If you're not a fan, this is a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: young17
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  having been a fan of resident evil since its early days, i couldn't wait to play resident evil 
 5. i wasn't disappointed. it is one of the most entertaining games i have played since metal gear 
 solid 4.
  
  the story follows chris from RE1 and a new character to the franchise, sheva, in an attempt to 
 track down a bioweapons smuggler in africa, while running into old friends and conspiracies and 
 clashing blades with the most important enemy in resident evil canon along the way. it was a joy 
 to play through the story, and it kept making me want to continue playing to find out more.
  
  gameplay is pretty much the same as resident evil 4, including the inability to move when aiming. 
 many people complain about this but i think it is a deliberate move by capcom. i think being unable 
 to move makes you fear enemies more as you feel more vunerable, a feeling i think is somewhat lost 
 in the later incarnations due to ur increased accuracy. so no that doesnt bother me. what does 
 is the quick select for weapons. you have 9 slots for items, but only 4 are available for quick 
 select? i would have prefered the ability to cycle through all available items as i hate having 
 to go into your inventory menu in the midde of a fight to select health or a grenade, but thats 
 personal choice. it doesnt really take anything away from the game.
  
  graphics are excellent, some of the best ive seen on xbox 360. music and sound are also excellent. 
 i love the full orchestral pieces that accompany major boss battles. while one or two old resident 
 evil monsters make a return, i would love to see more, like hunters and even a tyrant thrown in 
 there for old times sake, but again thats personal preference.
  
  while its good playing on your own, the game is clearly best suited for co-op play. it makes the 
 game much more fun and increases the suspense in the larger shootouts and boss battles.
  
  its easy to play from any point that has been unlocked so far, and there is plenty to go back for 
 once finished. overall, resident evil 5 is an easily recommendable game that will entertain if 
 given the chance. role on resident evil 6! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowbladeX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 picks up with Chris Redfield being sent to Africa by the BSAA, here he teams up 
 with African agent Sheva Alomar to find a whole new threat being brought down upon the nation. 
 Let me just say Resi 5 presents I believe the best game in the series to date. The story in true 
 Resi style in highly in depth with many twists and plot turns that will leave you wanting to know 
 the ending right up until the end. The gameplay is taken straight from numbe 4 and has been increased 
 for greater value. Gone is Leons box, now you have only 9 slots as youe inventory in game. Also 
 now the wonderful weapons dealer from the previous game as disappeared. In between missions now 
 is the only time you can purchase weapons and organise your 9 slots. While the weapons dealer will 
 be sorely missed the change works well. The only downside is Sheva's AI. Most of the time as long 
 as you handle things well she isn't a problem, but there are plenty of moments where it gets in 
 the way. Sheva has a bad habit of getting in your way, and moment where youneed to run unless you 
 hit B to call her, she will stand and fight which will usually result in her death (the chainsaw 
 guy is a good example) . Resi 5 is best experienced with a friend during co-op where the game can 
 be fully enjoyed, but luckily you can still have a fantastic time even during single play. Overall 
 Resident Evil 5 stands as the best in the series, and even people who arent fans of the series 
 will find something they can greatly enjoy here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lbcjrballa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is great IMO and for many reasons, even though it does come with it's few flaws.
  
  Pros: RE5 plays pretty much exactly the same as 4 with a few minor upgrades here and there, 
 so if you liked 4 you should feel about the same with 5.
  
  Graphics are top-notch and i'm playing on a standard definition TV so that's saying something, 
 facial expressions, character movements/animations, and the voice acting is all superb and fits 
 perfectly with the RE atmosphere.
  
  Once your done with the game, it has many things you can do afterwards including co-op mercenaries, 
 and a downloadable 4-player versus mode for $5
  
  You can get it at gamestop for $20 if you trade in 2-select Wii/360/PS3 games
  
  Cons: The game 
 is a bit shorter than the last one as gamespot stated on average of about a 12-hour playthrough
 
  
  Online is horrible as far as getting started up but once in-game there is no problem
  
  Tiny frustrating game mechanichs like no weapon swap online
  
  Overall: Bottom Line is 
 it's worth buying because of the nice replay value and the 4 different diffculties (one of which 
 is unlockable) so the lack of length in the game can be substituted with a high dificulty setting 
 as to make it more challenging thus a longer experience, and if you feel it might be too short 
 then just rent it.
  
  Final Score-9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gow247
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:57 am PT
Review:  This is one of the grestest games ever. People can argue that it went from survival horror to action 
 but thats not a bad thing at all. The goods are the fact that the graphics are the best ive seen 
 so far. Ive seen a lot better stories but i liked it. There is so many weapons to choose from your 
 bound to have a favorite. Very great gameplay from start to finish. Great length. Extremely fun 
 to play with a friend. Mercenaries will have you coming back for more. A lot of unlockables. And 
 Much More. Early game of the year contender. The bad is mainly one thing but its so bad it gives 
 this game a bad review. The conrol scheme. No run and gun... we're in 2009. Limit possibilities 
 due to controls which cause a lot of tension. The other is the co op AI it has a lot of flaws. 
 Overuse of both Herbs and Ammo and due to the small inventory and her lack of making space creates 
 a lot of frustration. That is why if you have a friend to play with you with this game do so. Youll 
 love this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadman_est1982
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Resident Evil games since day 1. I'm very pleased to see how far the game 
 has progressed since it's initial release. Graphics are amazing. The characters are interesting 
 and the action is almost non stop. I don't get why some people say the horror aspect is gone from 
 RE games. I don't know about a lot of players but going through the streets of Africa is creepy 
 as hell. Some people complain about the controls but looking back on the first RE game and the 
 ones that followed I feel that the controls on RE 5 are great. RE 5 has also been classified as 
 a revamped RE 4, well the last time I checked RE4 was one of the best games I've ever played and 
 I say if it isn't broke then don't fix it!
  
  I'm not sure about the casual gamer community but if you're a Resident Evil fan then don't hesitate 
 to pick up this gem! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin_Kaniff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  
  First the Pros:
  
  - Beautiful Graphics
  - I have always loved Chris and Jill (not playable) , great to see them again
  - Love the more 
 classic feel of weapons
  - Inventory system makes game more challenging (I personally thought
  I wasn't going to like 
 it, but I do.)
  - Rewarding Combat
  - Stiff movement is very easy to get use to
  
  Cons:
  
  - Seems Shortish (maybe I have been playing too many RPG's lately)
  - Sheva can 
 be annoying at first, but she really isn't that much of a pain
  
  
  I have been a fan for many a year, so I am not new by any means. I am not a huge ultra fan either. 
 I like to beat RE's just like any other game. I really enjoyed 4 because it was fresh and new, 
 and if you like 4 then you will like this one. However, the lack of puzzles is fairly obvious and 
 may disappoint. Hopefully, in future titles they will reconcile innovation in action with new and 
 more in-depth puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevH1986
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:54 am PT
Review:  For me, when I was a kid playing Resident Evil was quite an experience, no word of a lie, exploring 
 the tunnels with the huge spiders was not a pleasant experience for me (picture a dog licking urine 
 off a jagged nettle, and that was my face throughout the whole game) .
  When it moved onto resident evil 4, the whole ganado thing wasn't (in my opinion) that terrifying..... don't 
 get me wrong great game, but I wouldn't class it as survival horror.
  
  With RE5 they've went down the same route as RE4, its a more action orientated game and it does 
 come together nicely.
  the grapchics are amazing, the soundtrack brilliant as well, and the gameplay is great as well.
 
  My only gripe with RE5 is that you can't move while aiming your weapon, quite a small gripe, but 
 a gripe nonetheless.
  All in all Resident Evil 5 is a must have for any gamers collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upiter000
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  US, March 6, 2009 - Change can be a painful process. Just ask one of the unfortunate citizens of 
 Kijuju, the fictional region of Africa that serves as the setting of Resident Evil 5, the latest 
 entry in Capcom's ongoing zombie videogame saga. A power-mad corporation's evolutionary manipulations 
 have caused a biological disaster that turns people into mindless hosts for a military-grade parasitic 
 infection. And you thought the Bird Flu was nasty. The citizens of Kijuju are going through some 
 ugly changes, many of which involve tentacles, oozing eyeballs and heretofore unexplored bloodlust. 
 And, as is the custom in a Resident Evil game, you drop into the situation woefully underprepared 
 for what awaits. The resulting experience is an intense, action-packed adventure replete with satisfying 
 combat, tight gameplay and gorgeous, well-crafted environments. Resident Evil 5 offers all those 
 things and then some, but it doesn't do many of the things longtime fans of the series expect. 
 It won't scare you. It won't fill you with creeping desperation. It won't have you collecting and 
 counting bullets like they're precious stones. It won't, in essence, make you feel like you're 
 playing a traditional Resident Evil game.
  
  Like the story it's trying to tell, Resident Evil 5 is all about evolution. Capcom has gone out 
 on a limb with the latest numbered sequel in its long-running survival horror franchise, and although 
 one of your goals as a player is to survive the horrors around you, this entry in the series is 
 a radical departure from the genre Capcom helped create near Raccoon City more than a decade ago.
 
  You'll start out the game as Chris Redfield, who fans will remember as one of the co-stars of 
 the original Resident Evil. But Chris is no lone wolf. Joining him on his mission is Sheva Alomar, 
 an African national and bioweapons expert. Both Chris and Sheva are members of the Bioterrorism 
 Security Assessment Alliance, a global outfit tasked with preventing the proliferation of biological 
 organic weapons.
  
  And to date, the group has done a pretty poor job of it. From the incident at the Arklay Mansion 
 (RE1) to the outbreak in Raccoon City (RE2) and the Las Plagas infestation in Spain (RE4) , the 
 B. S. A. A. and its predecessors such as the S. T. A. R. S. team have been one step behind the Umbrella 
 Corporation and its mysterious backers. When we last left the story of Chris Redfield in Resident 
 Evil: Umbrella Chronicles, he and fellow former S. T. A. R. S. member Jill Valentine were battling 
 through Umbrella's Russian base. So why isn't Jill at Chris's side in RE5? It's a good question, 
 and one you'll have to play the game to answer. This time around, it's Sheva who has Chris's back, 
 and she'll be with you every step of the way, whether you go it alone or recruit a friend to play 
 along. On your first playthrough you're stuck with the beefy Chris, whose bulging biceps and gigantic 
 torso make Street Fighter IV's Ken look like a stick figure. Once you complete the game, you unlock 
 the ability to play single-player as the more compact Sheva, who can handle herself and just about 
 everything else.
  There are several scenes in RE5 where the more acrobatic Sheva will need to part ways with Chris 
 to reach hard-to-access areas. It's a cool nod to the co-op nature of the game, but I felt Capcom 
 could have gone farther with the concept. There are no moments when you truly feel separated from 
 your partner, which could have upped the fear factor significantly. Part of the horror of past 
 RE games lay in the cramped isolation of knowing you were all alone in a dark corridor. But here, 
 you're never truly on your own, as Sheva is always at your side.
  
  When Sheva is controlled by the game, she does a pretty fair job of staying out of your line of 
 fire, watching your back for enemies and healing or reviving you when you take damage. But just 
 like any partner, she does have her annoyances. In RE5, as in other games in the series, each character 
 is limited to a set number of inventory slots, and making the best use of that space is one of 
 the keys to doing well in the game. In single-player mode, you have access to both characters' 
 inventories, and you can swap items back and forth between them as you see fit. But Sheva likely 
 doesn't have quite the same fanatical approach to ammo and health conservation that you do. She's 
 a bit trigger happy, even when her targets aren't perfectly presented, and she tends to heal herself 
 and Chris at the slightest sign of a flesh wound. But beyond that, I found her to be at the same 
 time both refreshingly unobtrusive and surprisingly intelligent, as A. I. partners go. Some players 
 will hand her a few weapons and let her loose on Kijuju, while others will likely restrict her 
 inventory and use her as more of a pack mule.
  
  If you're a hardcore fan of the previous Resident Evil games, you probably just shuddered at the 
 thought of you're A. I. partner wantonly wasting ammo, which was notoriously scarce in earlier installments 
 in the survival horror franchise. But to understand how the gameplay in RE5 is set up, you'll need 
 to forget just about everything you know about the series.
  
  Sure, there are parasite infected zombie-like enemies who want to kill you in Resident Evil 5, 
 a situation that will be instantly familiar to fans. And there are some other through-lines as 
 well. You can't run and shoot at the same time. Your inventory is limited. You can heal yourself 
 by collecting and applying colored herbs. Weapons are upgradable. But there are also some looming 
 differences.
  
  For the first time in one of Resident Evil's main numbered releases, cooperative play has been 
 made the cornerstone of the experience. Nearly every aspect of RE5 is more fun with a friend, either 
 online or via split-screen, which is available in both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. 
 Just fire up a second controller, hit the Start button and join in. The game doesn't do a very 
 good job of telling you how do accomplish this, but it's there nonetheless. Split-screen play is 
 handled a bit differently in RE5 than you might be used to. Rather than cut the screen evenly vertically 
 or horizontally, Capcom has given each player an equal size horizontal offset rectangle, one on 
 the upper left and one on the lower right of the screen. It's an odd effect at first, but the more 
 I used it the more I liked it. Although there's less screen real estate in use, it's easier to 
 stay focused on your own character because the two screens don't directly abut one another.
  
  But most gamers will be playing Resident Evil 5's co-op mode as it was designed to be played: 
 online. This is where RE5 truly shines, both literally and figuratively. With the screen all to 
 yourself, you'll marvel at the beautifully rendered environments, from the dilapidated villages 
 surrounded by golden sand to misty wetlands populated by shield-wielding tribesmen. And Capcom 
 has included some major incentives to drink in your surroundings.
  
  Scattered throughout the environments in RE5's six chapters are treasures that can be collected 
 and sold for cash (some are also dropped by bosses and mini-bosses) . You'll also want to be on 
 the lookout for the B. S. A. A. emblems hidden here and there. Each one you find and shoot gives you 
 points that you can later spend to unlock 3D models of the various RE5 characters. The detailed 
 figurines are presented on pedestals like the vending machine capsule toys popular in Japan. It's 
 a cool touch and justone of te many unlockable features that add to Resident Evil 5's high replay 
 value. One of the best rewards in Resident Evil 5 is the bonus of unlimited ammunition for fully 
 upgrading a weapon over the course of the campaign. That's right, upgradable weapons are back, 
 and they're a blast (see what I did there?) to use. There are shotguns, handguns, magnums, sniper 
 rifles, grenade launchers machine guns and more at your disposal, and most of them can be upgraded 
 into destructive beasts. And unlike Resident Evil 4, you don't have to wait for a wandering merchant 
 to beef up your boomsticks. Just head to the inventory screen between levels and cash in your treasures 
 or spend the gold you've picked up along the way.
  
  There's been a fair amount of media discussion around the question of whether Resident Evil 5 has 
 racist overtones due to its African setting and the fact that the main character (at least on the 
 first playthrough) is a white man shooting black people in their native land. I personally didn't 
 find Resident Evil 5 to have an overtly racist feel, but I did find one aspect of it a bit disturbing. 
 It was a bit strange to realize I was wandering around Africa stealing the region's gold, precious 
 gems and expensive native treasures, which I then cashed in to pay for weapon upgrades. Add in 
 the fact that I ended up killing the parasitically infected villagers and townspeople of the area 
 with said weapons, and the discomfort comes full circle.
  
  But I long ago lost count of the number if videogames I've played whose in-game economies, storylines 
 and character motivations made absolutely no sense. And I suppose the people of Kijuju won't be 
 needing their treasures anymore anyway, seeing as they've all been infected with a parasite and 
 then killed by me. Consider it money well spent on ridiculously powerful weapons.
  
  If you play your cards right, you can finish the game with, say, a fully upgraded shotgun and then 
 plow back through in the New Game mode with infinite shells. There are very few games that I've 
 finished and then instantly fired up again for another go-round. Resident Evil 5 is one of those 
 games. If you plow through without scouring every nook and cranny, expect RE5 to last you between 
 10 and 12 hours. But if you want to uncover everything, expect to easily invest double that. And 
 even if you managed to find every treasure, every emblem and every secret the first time around, 
 you'll still want to dive back into the game for the Mercenaries mode, which is unlocked when you 
 complete the game. This timed arcade-like mode pits you against a flood of enemies, and you'll 
 need to kill as many of them as possible until help arrives.
  
  Mercenaries is the most edge-of-your-seat experience in the entire game, and the only time I truly 
 felt scared of death at the hands of the infected horde. You can't bring your massive arsenal of 
 upgraded weapons into the arena, and you'll need to scrounge for ammo and health just to stay in 
 the game. In fact, Mercenaries was the only place where I actually actively avoided enemies rather 
 than methodically hunting every last one down. My only complaint about Mercenaries is that it doesn't 
 support co-op online play, which is a major disappointment. For a game so heavy on online co-op, 
 this seems like a crazy exclusion. But despite that restriction, Mercenaries is a blast, and it 
 is the part of RE5 that's most like the earlier games in the series, which emphasize caution, planning 
 and conservation over running and gunning. Actually, I should probably revise that to running and 
 then gunning. With RE5, Capcom has essentially created an action game with some of the Resident 
 Evil survival horror conventions laid over it. One of those conventions is the restriction of movement 
 while shooting. Unlike a third-persoerson shooter like Gears of War, which allows you to strafe 
 and fire, Resident Evil 5 requires you to stand still while shooting.
  
  It was a deliberate choice, and producer Jun Takeuchi has said he feels it adds to the intensity 
 of the experience. This, along with the real-time inventory system (which is always restricted 
 to nine slots and can't be upgraded) keeps RE5 in a sort of limbo between full-fledged action game 
 and methodical survival horror game. I didn't mind the control style (which you can switch up with 
 alternate layouts if you choose) , but it does feel a bit outdated. Basically, if you played the 
 demo and didn't enjoy the experience, then you won't like RE5, because what you see is what you're 
 gettingAnd what's amazing about that is just how successful Resident Evil 5 is as a game, despite 
 its seeming reluctance to commit to one genre or the other. The levels are laid out and paced well, 
 the weapons are balanced nicely and I never got bored moving from one infested area to the next. 
 Past Resident Evil games pushed you along with fear and instinct, forcing you to move from one 
 area to the next to stay alive. RE5 pulls you ahead, enticing you toward a clear objective with 
 the promise of more killing.
  
  The combat is truly the focus here, and the fight is at its best when you're tackling the baddies 
 with a buddy. In addition to using the standard weapons and explosives, you're encouraged to get 
 up close and personal with melee attacks, which are triggered via context-sensitive face button 
 presses. Popping an enemy with one or two handgun shots will usually cause them to stagger a bit, 
 which opens them up for a melee strike. Get in close, and a button icon will pop up. Hit it in 
 time, and you'll pull off a flashy move like an uppercut, somersault kick or impaling stab. For 
 the most part, these work smoothly, although there were times when I felt the game wasn't recognizing 
 the opportunity for a melee attack as quickly as I would have liked.
  
  The A. I. does a good job of recognizing when melee attacks are both advisable and effective, but 
 you'll get the most bang for your buck when you're playing online. It's quite satisfying to work 
 as a team to pull off impressive weapon-and-melee combos, and this teamwork approach carries over 
 to the boss battles, too. Like every aspect of RE5, the bosses and mini-bosses (including the dreaded 
 Chainsaw Majini) are best tackled with a partner.
  
  Many of the boss battles involve quick-time events that require you to alternate between firing 
 your weapons at an enemy and quickly pressing buttons at a specified time. Some of these mega-fights, 
 like the one with the giant troll-like creature who wears a belt of dead people, are a real adrenaline 
 rush. Others, like an early fight with a monster that needs to be burned in an incinerator, are 
 more of an ode to past RE games where beating a boss was often equal parts puzzle solving and shooting. 
 Putting down a big boss rewards you with a bit of the RE5 storyline, which follows Chris and Sheva 
 as they attempt to stop a suspected weapons deal being spearheaded by an unsavory fellow named 
 Ricardo Irving. This gem of a character boasts some of the worst voice acting I've heard in a game 
 in years, with the writing to back it up. Irving looks like a reject from a Miami Vice episode 
 and talks like Jimmy Durante and Gilbert Gottfried's love child. But would it really be a Resident 
 Evil game without the convoluted storyline, overflowing cliches and campy writing?
  
  I can definitely report that silly storytelling and B-movie bad guys are a Resident Evil convention 
 that Capcom left untouched with this release. As one character is rapidly evolving from a human 
 into a hideous aquatic tentacle monster, he screams with glee, I just had an extreme makeover! 
 Classic. In some ways, Resident Evil 5 is more like the many motion pictures spawned by the earlier 
 videogames in the series than those early games themselves. There's more action, more adventure, 
 more explosions, more vehicles and overall more of an over-the-top thrill-ride feel. It's Black 
 Hawk Down meets Resident Evil: Apocalypse instead of Resident Evil 4 continued. That's not a negative, 
 but it's definitely a departure. And whether or not it sounds like a romping good time or the death 
 of everything you know and love depends on your perspective. For my money, fun is fun, and RE5 
 has near infinite ammo in that department.
  
  Closing Comments
  With Resident Evil 5, Capcom has broken away from many of the survival horror conventions it pioneered. 
 The creepy suspense of the earlier games has been replaced with an action-packed intensity that 
 will instantly appeal to some gamers and disappoint others. As an action game, RE5 is a success, 
 and there's a wealth of replayability through item collection, weapon upgrades, score chasing and 
 the unlockable Mercenaries mode. But this is no gentle nudge to the formula of the previous main 
 RE games; it's an evolution. And if you can accept it as that, you just might love Resident Evil 
 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WESAVT
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:17 pm PT
Review:  For God's sake, can we just get a new inventory system? Next-gen RE should get next-gen interface 
 and controls. The story is a little streamlined, but at least it didn't feel cheap. It just felt 
 simplistic and final.
  
  I think the strength of this game is it's reply value and extra content. Hopefully, we'll get some 
 kick-ass DLC. It looks great and I had fun, but there was never that, "oh ****, this thing is gonna 
 mess me up" moment. I never felt as if I was REALLY in dire straights. 
  
  All that said, I think the game is definitely worth owning. I did miss Leon's smart-ass mouth, 
 though. Though I haven't gotten many of the weapons or all their upgrades, it seems like it will 
 take some time and effort. But, the fact that you can jump in at any chapter makes that almost 
 a non-issue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CleanPlayer
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:31 am PT
Review:  After 4 long years, Resident Evil 5 finally arrived. It's expectations were set very high considering 
 how it's game of the year predecessor impacted shooters we love and play today such as Gears of 
 War. Is Resident Evil 5 better than it's predecessor Resident Evil 4? To put it quite simply.... No 
 it's not. 
  
  Sure it's graphics are far more superior to Resident Evil's 4, but it lacks any type of fear found 
 in Resident Evil games. The setting is quite off and it disrupts the mood of a survival horror 
 game. 
  
  This makes Resident Evil 5 a dissappointment considering how much time fans have waited. It's storytelling 
 is pathetic, the dialogue given to Chris Redfield and Sheva create a distant gap between any emotional 
 attachment to either of the characters. I could care less if she is left behind during the game, 
 her personality makes is a bland as a rock. Both, Chris and Sheva, lack any type of originality, 
 the lines they are given are downright embarassing. Its sad to see how clustered and disorganized 
 the plot turns out to be which leads to another problem, the pacing of the game. Each chapter leading 
 up to another feels sloppy. The variety of the situations you face in the game keep you engaged, 
 but it goes by quick. In short words, the game is too short. 
  
  The addition of online co-op is the highlight of the game. Playing with a friend establishes a 
 fun experience. It's very fun to sit back and kill off Majini with a friend. Does it kill off the 
 horror aspect of the series? Yes, but it doesn't ruin a good time. The levels are designed for 
 massive replayability, and the difficulty settings really complement the game. It offers a broad 
 challenge that makes the experience better. 
  
  Resident Evil 5 tries it's best to implement gunplay, and it does a fine job. Each weapon feels 
 just right and it gets addictive to obtain every weapon and keep upgrading. The enemies you kill 
 maintain a solid satisfaction during the entire game. Compared to the bosses, it gives me headaches 
 on what Capcom was trying to do.... but the last boss redeems itself.
  
  
  In the end, Resident Evil 5 is not what fans like myself expected it to be. Games that are inspired 
 by Resident Evil 4 such as Gears of War do a far better job then what Capcom could do with Resident 
 Evil 5. Although the game does have a decent co-op option that will keep gamers entertained for 
 a period of time, it fails on leading up to it's expectations of its predecessor and struggles 
 with keeping its place in the series. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: horrorboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  After beating Resident Evil 4 for the PS2 numerous times, and literally finding all of the collectibles 
 stored away in it, I started looking forward to this one after its announced production in 2005. 
 Now, after 4 years of patiently waiting, I finally got my hands on Resident Evil 5, and I was kind 
 of disappointed about what it had to offer.
  
  First off, RE5 takes place in the fictional desert city of Kijuju. The games setting is pretty 
 decent, as you're in the hot and dry desert areas of the city. It actually makes you feel like 
 you're in Africa. Some of the buildings are shown decayed and torn up, while others are completely 
 destroyed. After awhile, you'll start to run into a lot of underground areas that tend to get extremely 
 repetitive, unlike in RE4, since there weren't hardly as many underground missions as there were 
 in this. 
  
  The voice acting is extremely bad and cheesy, with characters that hardly had any emotion what 
 so ever and practically kept the same tone throughout their entire role in the game. Wesker's voice 
 has changed from a deep haunting voice, to a high pitch voice, that tends to get annoying. 
  
  The sound is pretty decent here, with the sounds of the African desert in the background as 
 you are walking around Kijuju at the start of the game to the motorboat going through a swamp sound 
 later on in the game. The music wasn't chosen as well as RE4, because it makes it feel more like 
 an action game, instead of a survival horror game, which let me down a lot since I was looking 
 forward to hearing some interesting horror music as I was being chased by chainsaw wielding maniacs. 
 
  
  The graphics are one of the high points of this game, and are probably the best graphics I've seen 
 in a very, very long time in a video game. You can literally make out everything from fruit to 
 doors that don't even look like you can go through them. Everything is in full clear detail, and 
 I was very impressed by how good that they were.
  
  One thing that let me down was the horrible inventory system. You are limited to 9 spaces and each 
 can hold ammo, weapon, herbs, etc., and when you go into the inventory, you are in real time in 
 the game. So say for instance, you are being chased by a big hunking chainsaw guy, and you find 
 a quick spot to go into your inventory and heal yourself or to get a weapon that isn't on the quick 
 select, only after coming out after you select the inventory, you get your head cut off or to be 
 seriously injured by the people chasing you, which tends to get extremely infuriating and frustrating. 
 
  
  Like said above, the game takes place in the fictional city of Kijuju, Africa, where you play as 
 Chris Redfield, who is now part of a team called the Bioterrorism Security Assessment Alliance, 
 or BSAA, who is joined by Sheva Alomar, to aid him into investigating a terrorist threat of Umbrella's 
 weapons. You must fight your way through Africa to find out what exactly is going on as the plot 
 starts to unravel more and more and more. The story is relatively good here, but is extremely short, 
 ranging in from 8-12 hours, and tends to have an extremely equal feel to that of RE4, which isn't 
 considerably a bad thing, but starts to feel old and already used after a few hours through playing 
 the game. 
  
  There are many other flaws in this game as well. Sheva's A. I. is incredibly dumb at most parts 
 throughout the game and will more than likely shoot at things that aren't there, and will tend 
 to waste a lot of your ammo, and will also get in the way of deadly lasers and chainsaw guys. The 
 inventory is extremely bad, as said above. The game can be intensely frustrating most times through 
 the game, and will leave players yelling at the screen, especially if you have to suffer through 
 Sheva's horrible A. I. as well. Sheva and Chris move at extremely slow rates causing enemies to 
 chase you better and faster. The action can get really repetitive after the first few chapters. 
 Also near the end of the game you'll have to use a cover system which was planted wrongly in the 
 game and will cause even more frustration. The music is really bad and doesn't quite fit in with 
 the game. It feels more like an action adventure game instead of a true horror survival epic like 
 RE4. Not as scary as expected. The game is also real short, and it just doesn't quite feel like 
 a Resident Evil game. Another pretty annoying flaw was that you can't run and gun at the same time 
 making it hard when you have to reload right in front of a chainsaw guy instead of running and 
 reloading or shooting at the same time.
  
  That's about all of the flaws that I encountered during my playthrough of this game. Why it doesn't 
 get an even lower score is because I actually enjoyed this one a bit even with all of its problems, 
 and it does a pretty good job of trying to live up to Resident Evil 4. 
  
  Overall this game is actually pretty good if you enjoyed the 4th one, as it tries to live up to 
 it but does not succeed, but almost does. A pretty good action/horror game that will not disappoint 
 fans of the series or anybody that like third person shooters that are moderately decent. An 8.5 
 out of 10.
  -horrorboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJBlaney0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  When I first played the demo, I suppose I was like many other players who were dismayed that you 
 can't move and shoot at the same time and that there was no cross air to help you aim. Criticizing 
 the game over these features simply means you didn't take the time to get used to a style of gameplay 
 that's not the norm, or that you didn't play the game long enough to get used to it. I barely notice 
 it anymore, and I believe it adds a sense of urgency and skill to the gameplay. Otherwise, just 
 stick to Left 4 Dead if you want a zombie FPS. This game is about thinking and strategy as well 
 as being a great shooter, not just the 150th version of DOOM like all other FPS'.
  
  Other than the phenomenal gameplay, the most notable aspect of RE5 is the story, and how that story 
 gets told. Cinematics are short and beautiful and often involve the player in deciding the outcome. 
 The brilliant cinematography are a huge factor in adding to the quality of the game. Cinematics 
 never felt anemic and dialogue was never cliche or treated as an unnecessary aspect of creating 
 a video a game as seems to be the case many games. It was as if Ridley Scott was directing a zombie 
 movie.
  
  The boss fights stand out and were done perfectly. They were just enough of a puzzle so that I 
 felt compelled to fight on to discover the weakness, but never felt stretched or complicated enough 
 so that I threw down the controller and ran to Google to discover the secret to beating a boss.
 
  
  The Co-op, whether split-screen or online co-op was flawless. I never had latency issues, or disconnect 
 problems. Connecting to my friends game was a cinch and we were up and killing zombies within 2 
 minutes of power on our xboxes. 
  
  The amount of puzzles to action I thought was well done. Many times, in other games, puzzles feel 
 forced upon you or that once you start a puzzle; you know there won't be any action for at least 
 10-15 minutes. However, RE5 does a good job in integrating puzzles with action. Often times moving 
 or pulling a key object will anger nearby enemies and you will get swarmed. The puzzles are also 
 never brain-busters; I remember years ago playing Final Fantasy X and at some points I was just 
 like "huh..." They are complicated enough to make you think, but not enough so that if you do something 
 wrong you have to spend another 10 minutes undoing the wrong move you made. (As in Twilight Princess)
 
  
  All in all, a very well made game. I enjoyed nearly every second of RE5 from the action, to the 
 cinematics, to finding out out what new amazing weapon I'm about to find inside the stainless steel 
 briefcase in front of me. Giving it a 9.5/10 instead of a 10/10 simply because (and true with most 
 amazing games) it was too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wehuntjoe
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This is really a great game when you are playing with a friend or a random guy online but where 
 it really fails is in single player game.
  
  The graphics are great the sound is good and the voice acting isnt bad either and it is in my opinion 
 the best story so far. When you are playing the co-op mode everything is perfect. you only really 
 worry about you and the money and treasures are given equally like if one picks up a treasure you 
 both get it and it is much easier to get through the game when you have a friend looking after 
 you and sheva is a great character but in single player she is just a problem that you have to 
 look after and babysit. That is this games real problem that it relies so much on the co-op and 
 i get that co-op is the new big thing right now but there is really only so far that you can take 
 it. So if you are going to get this game please get a friend to play with other wise you will just 
 be annoyed with the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memolemus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  this game yuo must have and play whit your friends, the story is good and the graphics are so amazig, the 
 10 or 11 hour are the just tieme spent playing, they como the versus mode and the hours toplay is 
 going up.
  
  play this game.
  
  Como gamer latino les recomiendo este juego, con amigos vale mas la pena ya que que el nivel de 
 inteligencia del cpu es poca, el modo mercenarios le da mas valor al juego y proximamente el versus 
 le dara mas vida al juego,
  vale la pena jugarlo.
  
  En lo que respecta al nivel de dificultad vale la pena jugarlo hasta el nivel mas dificil.
  si 
 se preguntas si vale la pena comprarlo lo vale, muchos diran que el control en un poco frustante 
 pero solo al principio ya que con el caminar del juego podras dominarlo y divertirte con el, asi 
 que les comento vale la pena es un juego que revoluciona con graficas y historia.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gadeos
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 8:23 am PT
Review:  RE4 made revolutionary changes to the old RE formula, making you feel more in an action-horror 
 movie-kind-of-game, rather than just horror (praying that your character could move a bit faster, 
 specially when turning back) .
  This entry makes some cool improvements over RE4's formula, with even more action and interactivity 
 with another character (forget little teenagers, Sheva is something out of this world) , having 
 it fighting along with you, really helpful against hordes of zombies that are tougher than before.
 
  OK, about this, something I really miss here is better movement. RE4 had less skilled zombies 
 than RE5. They also come in numbers and sometimes you just wish you could move more a-la-Marcus 
 Fenix. Things that could have been added: being able to walk while aiming, and some quick jumps. 
 Even if that would really seem like copying GoW gameplay, is a formula that works and makes the 
 game more fun.
  Any way, even if there's few horror left and more action, RE5 is an instant classic! Cool story, 
 great gameplay and some of the BEST graphics you could find in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cwaiho2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  You have to be a fan to appreciate this game. This is similar to MGS series. If you are a fan and 
 played all their series, then you will appreciate the progress they are trying make. For someone 
 who is new to the series, who is so used to FPS, it takes some time to adjust. Let's not forget, 
 RE4 was the first of it's type on behind the back FPS which I believe lots of idea from Gears of 
 War came from RE4. Both great games of it's time. RE5 tried to add online experience to users and 
 took out the "type-writer" save points. Instead it replace it with "check-point" save. This is 
 good and bad, the good is. Player will try to have a lot more fun shooting zombie without worry 
 about ammo. The bad is, it lose one of the most important aspect of the game : "Desperation". Remember 
 how you save ammo in order to pass a certain stage in RE1, 2, 3, and 4. Well.. don't have to worry 
 about that any more. 
  
  Overall this is a great game, graphic and game play are awesome. Like I said you have to be a fan 
 to fully appreciate it. RE came a long way, it has to be a special development team in order to 
 have a series lasted more than 10 years. I have to say, it has reached to an "end point" of the 
 series, much like MSG. Time to call it quit, before someone ruin it. 
  
  example: "Devil May Cry"... "Dynasty Warriors"... etc.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdude5678
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Fast, action packed, and brutal, but not as intense as RE4, because it's co-op, so you don't have 
 to worry about dying as much. The first 5 chapters are more enjoyable than the last, because it 
 goes from being primitive towns with zombies to a technological place. I suppose that's what RE4 
 did as well. The boss fights are not as challenging as RE4 until the very end, but that doesn't 
 mean they aren't fun. I played through the entire game online with my friend, and we had a great 
 time killing zombies and blowing up bosses. The inventory system is more realistic, you not being 
 able to carry more than 9 items at a time, then swapping out your items for other in between chapters, 
 but this keeps it more strategic, deciding what to pick up and what to drop. There is no merchant 
 either, and you can find almost every gun in the game laying around. The no merchant part disappointed 
 me, but I got over it and realized why.
  
  Story:
  Good story. Keeps you guessing until the end. I better not say anything so as not to spoil what 
 happens.
  
  Graphics:
  Some of the best graphics ever created. Looks real and looks disturbing in some cut scenes.
  
 
  This might not have been how fans pictured it, it being not as intense, but the amazing controls 
 and gameplay and co-op pay off for it in the end, besides having an enormous amount of replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: childofrock11
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 has been a long time in the making and though skeptical at first... it has more 
 than passed my expectations. If you have played RE4 then you know what to expect... for the most 
 part at least. Welcome to co op Resident Evil. Now you can take a friend with you on your trip 
 through hell and the help is very much welcome and needed. The AI does an extremely good job at 
 taking over the opposite character, but of course the true experience is playing with a friend. 
 Multiplayer modes have been added but seeing as how everyone is still unable to try those out, 
 I have no further comment on it. ( I have to say i'm a bit reserved at the notion, but still excited 
 to say the least ) .
  
  The story is resident evil, though not as fulfilling as i thought it would be. Wesker fans will 
 love this title through and through and it does it good job at wrapping up a few loose ends. The 
 game is a bit shorter than other RE titles but with so much time being put into graphics and gameplay 
 mechanics, well, this is to be expected in today's titles.
  
  All in all it is a great romp through a maddened piece of Africa, and the boss fights (though a 
 bit on the easy side) are a spectacle to behold. RE fans rejoice! Action fans who crave the fast 
 paced run and gun may not enjoy it as much but the minute this titles becomes something like all 
 the other shooter titles out their will be the minute Resident Evil isn't Resident Evil anymore! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mb423752
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:19 am PT
Review:  If you like shooting action games then you will love this game. If you are a fan of Resident Evil 
 games but don't like games like Gears of War don't get this game. The graphics are great the gameplay 
 is ok but it doesn't play nearly as good as Gears of War. This game is not even a little bit scary. 
 Resident Evil 4 was the best game ever and still is in my opinion. This game uses the same control 
 scheme but turned into a straight up action game with a partner. The partner when being played 
 with someone else is very fun but when playing solo I found the partner to be very annoying and 
 almost always doing something I did not want her to do. I did like the story and its not a bad 
 way to end the series. It tied up most of the story of the virus. The game is fun why it lasted 
 but it wasn't very long maybe 10 hours tops. It does have lots of other stuff to do after beating 
 the game though. I did like this game but its not on the same level as part 4. I don't think I 
 will like any game as much as part 4 ever. My favorite game so far on PS3 had been Uncharted. My 
 favorite game on 360 is Gears of War 2. Dead Space is also pretty awesome but I found it to be 
 too hard at some parts. This game is good but not as good as any of those I just mentioned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudXentar
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:53 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil series are one of my favorite ones ever since I started running through small hallways 
 in Umbrella Mansion with Chris or Jill with rather good and well thought out gameplay and fixed 
 camera angles that delivered a good scare factor. The series went along, with Capcom never filling 
 to let us down with each next sequel, with second and third game always adding a new stuff but 
 keeping the gameplay and the atmosphere the same. RE4 had a few mixed reactions in terms of ''over 
 the shoulder'' view and opponents no longer acting like ''zombies'' but it was well received and 
 it created some new fans thirsty for action type battles. Well, Resident Evil continues with that 
 big change and I might say that if game continues this way, we will see a Gears of War wannabe 
 soon after.
  
  There is no use talking about RE5 gameplay because you already know most of the stuff from all 
 the hype and trailers taht were popping out everywhere. You take control of Chris in the same way 
 you did with Leon in the previous game, but with little extra thing, you now have a partner, Your 
 sidekick, Sheva is controlled ether by human player, offline or online, or AI if you are going 
 solo. 
  
  The AI does a neat job of keeping the pace with you although she (or he because you can play as 
 Sheva when you beat the game once, although the game stays the same, it is not different scenario 
 like Ada in RE4) is lacking quite a few things. You can put her status to ''cover'', where she 
 stay close to you most of the time though she can ignore the attack from behind, and ''attack'' 
 where she will went on in her own sometimes while wasting ammo as much as she can. The problem 
 is more complicated if you want to do any tactical attack like shooting your opponent towards legs 
 and then head off to finish him/her with a knife, but don't bother because in mostly Sheva will 
 blast him/her before you even get close to it. All in all AI does a better job then some other 
 games and you will rarely have death problems with her, except some ammo issues.
  
  The graphics are great and anyone can see that, but that is not what games are made for in my book, 
 it's about presentation, story and gameplay. The series went off even further by turning this game 
 in a short plain action one. Forget the puzzles and backtracking, you only need to pull some lever 
 in the room or Sheva covering you while you press something on the other side is all that there 
 is. Some will say that this is great, but to me, by doing this they turned RE series in a mindless 
 action while solo players will feel like a add on or some spin off of the series while online guys 
 will experience a non-stop multiplayer action. The small number of cutscenes and low level of interaction 
 with other characters sunks the game a bit deeper for me.
  
  The game is too straightforward and all the happenings around you feel like it is happening on 
 the way, too casual if you ask me. There is nothing to break the line, like it was in RE4 (Leon 
 getting captured, playing a bit with Ashley, memorable and different Boss fights, puzzles etc.) . 
 RE5 is like playing mercenaries mode, a survivor without time and few cutscenes added, if you get 
 what I mean. The rushed shallow story and bitter sweet ending doesn't help ether.
  
  RE5 is good game but it doesn't deserve the hype, although if you think that only gameplay and 
 online can keep you for playing it non-stop then you can rise a score to 9.0 because that is all 
 what there is, just plain action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waterdawg007
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  This was my first time that I actually played a RE game the whole way through and I have to say 
 I thought it was great! I know all the old-school RE fan boys are probably wishing for it to go 
 back to what it used to be. I guess Capcom figures they will just sell more games this way. The 
 story does focus on Chris Redfield so you might want to look up the Resident Evil story before 
 you start playing. It takes like five minutes and is well worth it to know his back ground so you 
 can better understand the story. As far as gameplay is concerned, yes their are some slight flaws, 
 such as some screen tearing during the cut scenes, but they seemed to stop once I got a little 
 further in the game. Many of the cut scenes are interactive so always keep your hands on the controller 
 during them or you will find yourself Zombie food. RE 5 immerses you from the beginning as you 
 are making your way through town with your new partner Sheva. Playing the game through on your 
 own with the computer is a fun way to learn the game for the first time player. She will occasionally 
 do something stupid and make you die. I used her primarily as a medic letting her carry only a 
 pistol and maybe one other gun. The only thing is players can tell by the first attack from the 
 horde that its not a very frightening game, especially with a partner watching your back. However, 
 like I said Capcom is just taking this game in a whole new direction. If your a fan of the series 
 for the story or if you like the new type of over-the-shoulder game play its a must buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: engclm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:06 am PT
Review:  Okay, maybe it isn't the resident evil of earlier years but surely Capcom would have been idiots 
 if they went back to that, afterall Resident Evil 4 was massively popular and got massive reviews 
 so why change it.
  
  The campaign on 5 is shorter than I expected, it still has a few plot twists although even these 
 are predictable. These are perhaps the only faults because the edition of a new inventory which 
 forces a user into predicting which weapons will and won't be needed keeps you on your toes plus 
 Multiplayer will keep the game going longer also.
  
  There is not much fear factor within a game that is slowly becoming a shooter and you can begin 
 and see some features from Lost Planet in there such as the bossess however don't review the game 
 down for this, review it for what it is, a fantastic game with an awesome story, lots of unlockables 
 and a Co-op mode, for this reason I think you could easly get 80+ hours out of it and 0.50 per 
 hour is not a bad price really is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skeever
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2009 12:35 am PT
Review:  Straight up, this game looks great. Awesome graphics through and through. Unfortunately the rest 
 of the game is terrible. The controls are clunky at best; they have completely changed every single 
 aspect of the resident evil games, yet kept the horrible controls from the original. The original 
 controls were fun because usually only one zombie at at time would attack you. The clunky controls 
 added to the suspense because it would take you so long to aim... So fun!! Again, this game sucks, 
 same clunky controls, but tons of fast moving zombies equals a frustrating experience, not a fun 
 one. This game isn't fun at all, or scary. I wanted to love this game, but I recommend people to 
 play Dead Space instead if you want a survival horror, it's probably one of the best I have ever 
 played... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_and_dumb
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 12:19 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil has finally returned to us. After the great evolution of the series RE4 turned out 
 to be, the producers kept what worked, and added some more stuff to make you wish they thought 
 of it thirteen years ago.
  
  I, like many of you, followed Resident Evil's humble beginnings from the PSOne, to the PS2, and 
 finally here to the current generation console. There are a few things that have been vastly changed 
 since the last game, the first and probably the biggest being Co-op mode. Taking down enemies with 
 a cohort is just as fun, and thrilling as it would be in any other co-op game. If you think adding 
 a second human being to join you would make the game easier, it does a little. Only because the 
 A. I. partner they pair you with can't really be trusted with a rubber band gun let alone a pistol. 
 Split screen, system link, or Xbox Live is really the way to go for the experience. Though there 
 are a little connectivity issues we did face, but that may be due to our connections and not the 
 game. Though a little better of a lobby like they had in the demo would make it easier than the 
 game-stopping joinings they currently have.
  
  The item management system has also changed, going form a briefcase that holds a lot, to nine squares 
 that hold... nine items. This makes maticulate item management a must. Deciding who gets certain 
 weapons and their relative ammo comes down to a little strategy and thoroughness. Thankfully, in 
 between missions and certain checkpoints, You can more easily manage your items, buy new weapons, 
 or upgrade the current weapons. Yes, gone are the weirdos in purple robes. The only downfall being 
 that you can't for whatever reason switch weapons between each other. If they have that shotgun 
 you wanted, well you just have to buy it for yourself. Switching between weapons in game is made 
 a lot easier with shortcuts on the d-pad. But beware, entering your item screen does not pause 
 the game, thus you run the risk of being mauled while try to get out your favorite weapon.
  
  On the technical side, graphics are just as gorgeous as you knew they would be. With great 
 attention to detail to everything from the environment to the character animations. Sound and music 
 are just as spectacular as you would expect from a Resident Evil entry. Thrilling high paced music 
 when the enemies start shows up, to the subtle, ominous tones during "quieter" times.
  
  The achievements are nothing to get excited over. Some are the typical fare such as completing 
 chapters and beating it on difficulties, which unlike most games out there, do stack when you beat 
 them (beating it on normal gets you the Soldier and Recruit achievements) . But there are a few 
 in there that will challenge you and give you a good replay value, such as killing a group of enemies 
 with barrels or grenades. But then they had to put in collection achievements. There are four of 
 them, two of them are good ones, for getting all weapons; and collecting all treasures, which you 
 can sell to get money to upgrade or obtain new weapons. There are two other ones that will surely 
 test your patience but they aren't as bad as other games out there.
  
  So there you have it. A great fun game, that's even funner and more greater with a friend. A great 
 game to carry on the great tradition.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: therockkratos
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys did you already play the game me yes and I have already finished the game on 15/03/2009 
 Resident evil 5 is absolutely beautiful very deep in gameplay, graphics and the character. Chris 
 and Shaeva has give the game a new direction the two player system is very nice. The black point 
 of the game is the game life which is little short i finished the game in seven hours and the other 
 black point is that we can't carry too much thing in the box, at the begining of the game is not 
 a problem but at the middle of the game we cannot carry thing that we need, we have too box because 
 we can use shaeva's box also but sometime shaeva is far with us and we can't use her box anymore 
 that is the biggest black point of the game play the game and you we will see the difficulty of 
 carrying something. The herbs we can't use it directly like the other Resident evil we have the 
 obligation to put it in the box first and then we have the right to use but I think they have put 
 it like that for the game is more difficult and immersive. The game itself is a treasure chest 
 we will never forget it in the world of videogame Resident evil is a myth of videogame and he will 
 stay it and later Resident evil will become a legends of video game, resident evil will always 
 stay because the game have infinite life and the next opus i'm sure that Jill valentine will retake 
 his gun too shot new monster and new kind of zombies who know we can see the Manjini again hope 
 the game will continue great game Capcom and I hope we will see a new Series of Dino Crisis on 
 the next generation console done it. Good job Later for new survival horror action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enasniinsane
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:44 pm PT
Review:  To put it plain and simple: If you enjoy action/adventure games, this is the game of '09. Whether 
 you play with a friend beside you, play over PSN/XBOX Live, or just solo, RE5 plays extremely smoothly 
 and never allows you to be completely comfortable running through the game. 
  The new co-op system proves even more interesting and appealing than that of Gears of War, Army 
 of Two, and other TPS. For those who complain about gameplay suffering due to "no innovation and 
 no creativity displayed from previous installments" i. e RE4, keep in mind that resident evil is 
 based on the idea of surviving "slim to none" odds. Being such you can't expect to run and gun 
 with a sniper rifle and be accurate. Ideas like that would tip the scales in your favor and make 
 RE a joke.
  The gameplay additions, ability to quick-cycle items and weapons, get up-close-and-personal with 
 sick combos; packing powerful hooks, straights, and uppercuts from Chris, and any acrobatic kick 
 from Sheva, carry the RE series to new heights. The real time inventory adds a more realistic feel 
 to an outdated "pause and let me pull out my shotgun while you watch imminent death come your way" 
 system.
  The true calling card of the series has been the ability to play and re-play games in harder difficulties, 
 added situations, and bonus content upon beating the game on the highest difficulty. RE5 runs with 
 this characteristic and allows you to feel more drawn to it the 3rd time around than the 1st. 
 
  Why then after such praise is this game a 9.5 and not 10 on my scales? While you play through 
 a certain chapter of the game, you begin to lose touch with the overall plot and seem to find yourself 
 in a foreign land, one based off ancient civilization more than a third-world country. I felt this 
 specific part, while understanding its necessity to hold and cover the secrets it leads to, was 
 too drawn out and too time consuming when time seemed to be your enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DocJohnson92
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  OK... so i reserved it over 6 months ago and i love the game. but i thibnk i liked re 4 better. 
 i love the extra unlockables and all the new weapons, oh and the coop makes a world of differance. 
 i just like leon better than chris lol i think hes cooler than chris and the first re game i ever 
 played was re2 so im bias. the control is great except for that u cant move and shoot just like 
 in re4, however you can strafe and sidestep so thats a plus. the real klick in the rear is how 
 short the story is, ive owned it for 2 days and beat iot three times. it hasnt gotten old yet and 
 there is a heckuvalot of things to unlock so replays are required. the split screen is the best 
 new feature and it makes the gaming expiriance so much sweeter to work with a partner. the game 
 is basicly a revampted version of re4 with a different story, but who says thats a bad thing? i 
 certainly dont... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtPrino
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 9:40 pm PT
Review:  I got my copy of the game during the midnight release at my local Game Stop, and it was worth the 
 wait. I am enjoying the game, to say the least. The graphical quality is outstanding. The setting 
 for this game, is an interesting choice, but works well. The gameplay is very similar to RE4, which 
 is fine with me. The story seems at least cohesive, and is entertainingn. I really like how the 
 characters and documents found throughout the game reference RE 4 directly. This seems to be more 
 of a sequel to the prior game, as opposed to the other entries, which jump around almost at will. 
 The enemies are fairly intelligent, and Sheva's AI is also serviceable. The main problem with Sheva 
 is that she will take ammo quickly, even before you have a chance to spot it. I have played for 
 about 5 hours, and am mid way through the third chapter. I will be playing through again for completion's 
 sake. Since I really enjoy a good story, I am disappointed that the game appears to be shorter 
 than RE 4 by a considerable amount of time. I haven't had the chance to play online coop with another 
 player, so I can't honestly comment on that portion of the game. Overall, I feel that anyone who 
 does not give this game a shot, will be missing out on a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chain_gang404
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I think Resident Evil 5 is the best in the series and here is a couple reasons why:
  
  Pros
  1: Very compelling storyline
  2: Playing with a buddy or a friend across xbox live is very 
 fun to do
  3: Amazing Graphics
  4: Solid Gameplay
  5: Is that there is only 1 Con
  
  There are to many reasons why this is amazing game. The only thing bad about this game is that 
 Sheva/your A. I partner can be incredibly stupid and hard to handle as she gets in your way and 
 is really annoying when she only uses her pistol when she is fighting giant bosses. Although she 
 is better then any partner you can get over xbox live at healing u whenever your injured.
  
  Cons
  1. A. I is incompetent
  
  So if you haven't already played this game I highly recommend 
 that you do if your a fan of the franchise or even if your not this is a great place to start.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 Review
  
  Story ------------- 8
  Gameplay ------- 9
  Graphics -------- 10
  Sound ----------- 9
  Tilt/Value ------ 9
  
  Pros: Absolutely gorgeous 
 graphics, Extremely fun boss fights, Cutscenes are fun to rewatch, Voice acting is top-notch, gameplay 
 is very addictive, replay value is unmatched, Co-Op is an extreme fun-factor
  
  Cons: Somewhat stale level designs, Sheva will not always be of help, Online can be a little tedious 
 due to its awkward interface
  
  Introduction: 
  
  Resident Evil has had a quite a history behind its back. Originally known for its own original 
 genre called Survival Horror, the series has slowly taken a different turn with each new installment. 
 Most notable of the series is Resident Evil 4. While the game retains its somewhat horror elements 
 in the game, Resident Evil 4 redefined how the series was meant to be played and how it was to 
 be played. Because of the new direction that the series has taken the games following afterwards 
 will be quite different also. The fruits of the series' mistakes and success have finally accumulated 
 into Resident Evil 5.
  
  Story ---------------- 8
  
  Resident Evil 5 starts out with the main character Chris Redfield traveling to Africa as a member 
 of the BSAA to stop bio-terrorism. Ten short years have passed since the destruction of Raccoon 
 City and Chris is still fighting the biological weapons that are scattered throughout the globe. 
 As Chris arrives in the region of Kijuju, he meets up with a young lady named Sheva Alomar. Together, 
 Chris and Sheva are to infiltrate a new hotspot for bio-terrorists and cease their actions. However, 
 what begins to be a simple operation becomes something much more as the unveiling of the mysterious 
 Uroboros Project and the hostile locals. The residents of the region have become dangerous and 
 hazardous as they seem to attack any person they see in sight. Chris and Sheva are stuck in the 
 shanty towns of Kijuju and must quickly make their escape out of the city to chase down the origins 
 of this new bio-outbreak and stop the puppeteer that is controlling everything that happening in 
 this region.
  
  The story isn't instantly gripping nor is it very horrible that it won't entice the player into 
 the story but it is very satisfying. It will be even more satisfying to the fans of the series 
 as they will finally see Chris return along with his new partner Sheva. The game is quite short 
 spanning around eight to twelve hours depending on the player's marksmanship skills but Capcom 
 does an amazing job answering all the questions that were previously left blank. The story will 
 take the players from the shanty towns of Africa to an oil refinery and to a gigantic ship. The 
 locations, although many, transition very well and gives the feeling of fast paced-action story 
 to the player. At many times, the game will feel very much like a movie. However, nothing in this 
 game seems too out of control or inconceivable to the Resident Evil franchise. 
  
  If there is anything wrong with the game it's the fact that there are a lot of background references 
 and detail reading. While Resident Evil 4 could stand alone from the rest of the series because 
 it had little referencing the series and background, Resident Evil 5 has myriads of them. In order 
 to understand one of the key events of the game, the player must be fully adept in the history 
 and characters of the previous Resident Evil games. Although this doesn't take away from the whole-hearty 
 goodness of the story, it definitely takes away some of the awe from the game. Another aspect of 
 the story that many players might not enjoy is the fact of detail reading. There are scattered 
 documents or details throughout the level and by reading them, the player has a better knowledge 
 of the story and the history of Resident Evil. Unfortunately, some are too long or boring for players 
 to even care. While others might find it fascinating, it's a concept that many will find boring.
 
  
  Resident Evil 5's story isn't stellar but it certainly does have that feeling of an action movie. 
 Because of this aspect it does bring up the importance of the story of the game but also amazing 
 cutscenes. If you're playing Resident Evil 5 for just story, you're missing out on the game as 
 a whole.
  
  Gameplay ------------------- 9
  
  The mechanics and the general gameplay of Resident Evil 5 is derived from the same foundations 
 that Resident Evil 4 was built on. Over the shoulder view of the scene, a zoom up of what is in 
 front of the character when aiming, and other innovative features. Resident Evil 5 in a way is 
 an exact copy of Resident Evil 4 in that aspect, however, it doesn't mean that it's a horrible 
 game. The players have an over the shoulder view of the character of the area and can aim with 
 a gun or take out a knife using the R and L trigger respectively. Using various button combinations 
 players will be able to move the character along the various stages of Resident Evil 5. Players 
 can pull off various types of melee moves against staggering enemies that come their way and use 
 myriads of guns to destroy infected humans. This game is very versatile in that the player can 
 do many things but one thing that they cannot do is run and gun. The player can move throughout 
 the various places of a designated area but must stop in their tracks to shoot the enemies. This 
 isn't a bad mechanic of the game as it adds to the tension but could've been changed a little so 
 that the gameplay would remain a little fresh from Resident Evil 4. 
  
  However, whatever gameplay mechanics that it doesn't take from Resident Evil 4 and is build from 
 ground up is absolutely stunning. Throughout the course of the player's journey, they will not 
 be going at it alone as they will have a partner. This game is built around co-op and does an amazing 
 job incorporating the feature into the game. The player will play as either Chris or Sheva and 
 an AI, or another player, will control the other character. Although this can take the element 
 of tension out of the game it certainly does not. Having a partner will not insure your safety 
 nor does it give you the feeling of assurance. No, it makes the game much more tense, exciting, 
 and thrilling. There are many sections where teamwork is an absolute necessity and having a partner 
 to go through tough levels will feel remarkably rewarding and fun. Capcom has absolutely nailed 
 how cooperatively play should be handled in a game. The game has a total of six chapters with each 
 chapter separated into multiple levels. You and your partner will finish all of these levels and 
 accomplish victory in the game, but just because it's co-op doesn't mean that it will be easy. 
 The AI of the enemies definitely shows on the numerous difficulties of the game as they are smarter, 
 faster, and stronger. Enemies are tough and they will require strategy from both partners to defeat. 
 
  
  Long gone is the attach case that Leon mysteriously had in Resident Evil 4 but a new inventory 
 feature is replaced with it. Each character is enabled with 9 slots of items meaning a total of 
 18 slots for both Chris and Sheva. Because of the limited amount of items that the player can hold, 
 it will teach the players which items are a necessity and others optional. Not only is the amount 
 of items the player can carry changed but how the items are accessed. The inventory is done in 
 real time, meaning, if you are browsing through your inventory trying to find a healing item and 
 your enemies are right in front of you, you just might die as you look for the item. This gives 
 a feeling of desperation and tension that players will have never experienced before. 
  
  Although your inventory might not be able to hold all the weapons you want to carry, the player 
 has a variety of weapons to choose from. There are various types of handguns, machine guns, rifles, 
 and grenades to use. Each gun has its own strengths and weaknesses and using the right weapon may 
 save the player in a tight spot. Not only do your choices weapons matter for your main character 
 but the guns that players give to the player will also matter. If you give the wrong gun to your 
 partner, then the boss encounter coming up in a few minutes might end up with you dead. Knowing 
 the weapons and which weapons to use is a marksman's skill. The player will start out with only 
 a simple handgun but your arsenal of dangerous weapons will evolve as you hunt down the different 
 types of guns hidden in multiple levels. Certain weapons, however, can only be bought and even 
 then after certain conditions are met. Guns will only be buyable between each mission of the game, 
 after the death of a character, or in the start-up menu. The access of inventory and how it is 
 to be used varies much from the predecessor of the game.
  
  The game incorporates two types of cooperative play. One is done locally through either split-screen 
 or system link, or one is done online through Xbox Live or Playstation Network. Both styles of 
 gameplay are must and will offer something that the players have never experienced before: Unmatched 
 Cooperative Play. As amazing as Cooperative play is in Resident Evil 5 there are some problems 
 with. Players can search for a mission to play using the filters or create an Online Co-op room 
 themselves. If a player searches for a room to play in then the player will find a buddy to play 
 with and put the person waiting to come into the game to be on stand-by until the next check point. 
 This makes the game feel somewhat less-fluid and broken up. If the person has already made a room 
 and is playing through the level, a message will pop up on screen saying that a person is wishing 
 to join the game and will join the next checkpoint. The same situation occurs and makes the co-op 
 experience online seem somewhat gimmicky. However, once the game starts, there is no reason to 
 stop playing co-op. The interface that the player must go through to play co-op is only a minor 
 problem.
  
  While there are many amazing features implemented into Resident Evil 5, there are a couple of features 
 that could've been better implemented or not existed at all. At certain times in the game, the 
 player is given the option to cover behind some object so that he or she will withstand fire and 
 return fire, similar to the cover mechanics of Gears of War. However, this is not possible at every 
 given moment. One can wonder why Capcom didn't use this feature throughout the whole game instead 
 of certain parts. Regardless of the lack of this feature in the entire game, when used it is a 
 resourceful asset that the player has in his or her arsenal. Another mechanic that seems somewhat 
 is the linearity of the game. The locations that the game takes place in will vary but the design 
 of the levels will get old somewhat fast. The reason this is because of how linear some of the 
 levels are. There are no straying from a certain area that you proceeded into or wandering some 
 other parts of the towns. Occasionally there will be a few rooms that the players can go explore 
 but there aren't many. There is no exploration, backtracking, or roaming, only forward. Last but 
 not least is Sheva. Sheva's AI can be very erratic at times throughout the game. For the majority 
 of the game when Sheva is with Chris, she will waste ammo to no end and do somewhat horrible to 
 moderately well. However, when Sheva is separated from Chris then she does amazingly good pulling 
 off headshots every other shot. It can be understandable that the AI must not be overpowering, 
 but the fact that she does many stupid things like healing when only 1/5 of your health is gone, 
 or repeatedly using ammo against an invincible enemy is inexcusable.
  
  The gameplay in Resident Evil 5 is definitely one of the best that the current generation has to 
 offer, but it may not be for everyone. The game is very tense but the lack of run and gun may turn 
 player's off thinking it's a slow-paced game. This is not the case. The shooting is thrilling, 
 going through multiple levels with a mob of angry people chasing after you will give an adrenaline 
 rush, and screaming as you get your head gruesomely chopped off is somewhat morbid. The enemies 
 are fun to shoot down with many types of guns, the bosses are rewarding and exhilarating, and the 
 cutscenes that offer a little surprise are all aspects of the gameplay that many will enjoy when 
 given that second chance. This game caters to the fans but also caters to those who want to try 
 out a game with a different style of play: action-packed, jaw-dropping, and eye-popping.
  
  Graphics --------------- 10
  
  Capcom has an extreme reputation when it comes to graphics. 
 They will make other game's graphics look so obsolete due to their high production value put into 
 making their graphics. Simply put, this game will look insanely amazing now, and will still look 
 amazing 5 years into the future. It's that good. Whether you are looking at the veins popping out 
 from Chris' ridiculously muscular arms or at the glistening of Sheva's eyes when light is shining 
 on her face, the game's graphics is really good! 
  
  One of the key elements of graphics in Resident Evil 5 that stands out is the lighting. The lighting 
 effect in the game is done as realistically as possible, so much that it can be called the best 
 lighting effect in any console gaming history. When Chris is inside a dark house looking out into 
 the bright scenery, it is hard to see due to the eye adjustments made inside the house, but the 
 moment he goes out, the screen goes a little white and adjusts to its appropriate color. One can 
 say that this is a key feature in the gameplay department, but it goes much beyond. Capcom has 
 made the best use of lighting ranging from character eye-focus to environmental reflection.
  
  Facial expression is something that not many games put effort into. Capcom doesn't use that 
 type of logic and places intense facial expression even in the minor characters. The player can 
 see what type of emotions that the characters are going through by looking at their faces. When 
 Sheva talks you can see her lips move, syncing perfectly to her words, her cheeks flex in and out, 
 and her throat adjusting back and forth. Not only this but body movements are well done using real 
 actors. All animations are extremely solid and one can make even The Matrix jealous with some of 
 the moves that the characters pull off.
  
  While combining a stunning graphics engine with a fluid animation system, the graphics in Resident 
 Evil 5 is one of the best in the generation or the history of gaming. Everything runs without any 
 errors and all the textures are well detailed. The characters look so well animated and created 
 that they seem somewhat real at times. Resident Evil 5 is a true beast and is on its own level 
 when it comes to graphics. 
  
  Sound ---------------- 9
  
  The audio incorporated into Resident Evil 5 is an absolute hulk but does not score a perfect due 
 to some lack of harmony and variety. The voice acting in the game can be summarized with on word: 
 glorious! This game has voice actors that do a grade A job at impersonating the characters as well 
 as show the tension and emotion that runs through the character. One of the best is Sheva. Sheva 
 is an African American in the game and her accent in the game is absolutely gorgeous. The game's 
 voicing seems realistic and definitely immerses the player into the environment that he or she 
 is in. Not only her but other characters that are African American do an amazing job. Among the 
 notable voice acting in the game, Wesker has the voice of a true villain. Returning actor from 
 Umbrella Chronicles, Wesker's voice fits his personality and style perfectly to the core. One can 
 ask if the actor really does look a little bit like Wesker. With all said and done, the voicing 
 in the game is top-notch and absolutely irresistible. 
  
  Unfortunately, the musical score in the game does not meet up to the quality that the voicing does. 
 There are songs that will repeat over and over and again and again. Due to this the variety of 
 the score in the game is very small and the music will get old really fast. That doesn't mean that 
 the music itself is amazing, because they are. The songs that play in the intro, the credits, and 
 the fights all fit perfectly to the environment that the player is in, and sounds African. However, 
 the lack of balance between the music is dreadful. There is too much repetition for its own good. 
 
  
  Tilt/ Value ---------- 9
  
  Resident Evil 5 has a solid replay value, especially considering there's no high-level competitive 
 multiplayer like Gears of War or Call of Duty. The features that the game offers after the game 
 and beyond are so inconceivably amazing that the players will come back time and time again. The 
 game is short, but because of this fact it is both a good and bad thing. The player will have an 
 easy time breezing through this game but because it's short the player will come back to achieve 
 that high ranking grade or a high score. The game in a way is very arcade like. The player will 
 often find themselves playing through the game more than once due to various difficulty levels 
 and variety of weapons. There is more fun to be had with the story once it's over.
  
  Along with the replay value of the campaign itself, there are a couple of interesting new features 
 that make the game fun. One prime feature that has been in previous games of the series is infinite 
 ammo. Once the player has finished the game and upgraded a certain gun to the max limit, the player 
 can buy the infinite ammo option for that gun to use in the campaign. This allows just random screw-around 
 time for the player in missions or maybe become the helping crutch to beat that impossible boss 
 on the highest difficulty. Whatever the case, infinite ammo is always there and always fun.
  
  Another feature that player can highly invest their time into is Mercenaries. Mercenaries is 
 mode after the player has finished the game that allows a time limit arcade-like run through of 
 a level. The player starts out with a character in a certain stage with a time limit. Before time 
 runs out players must defeat as many enemies as they can, along with bosses without dying. This 
 may sound somewhat easy, but can be very challenging and addictive. There are multiple characters 
 that can be unlocked and beating the number 1 score on the leaderboards on Mercenaries is surely 
 a near-impossible feat. Regardless, Mercenaries will lengthen the lasting value of the game tenfold.
 
  
  Conclusion ---------------------- 9.1 (Reviewer's Addition/Deduction)
  
  When it comes down to it, Resident Evil 5 has definitely strayed from the genre Survival Horror, 
 moreso than Resident Evil 4. However, this doesn't mean that the game is bad, but much more bada**. 
 There is a ton of action, a ton of content, a ton of guns, and a ton of zombified people to kill 
 in this game that it is immeasurable to count how great the game is. The gameplay is solid, taking 
 the formula from one of the best games of all time, the graphics are the best of the generation, 
 and the sound is inspiring. One can say that this is an interactive movie. However, it's not, it's 
 much more. Resident Evil 5 will take the player on a journey that they will surely not forget in 
 the near future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 makes it debut on the xbox 360 from Capcom. It is set in Africa and you take on 
 the roll of protagonist Chris Red field as you set out on your mission to stop the spread of bio 
 terrorism in this latest installment. However, you are quickly teamed up with partner Sheva Alamor 
 as she helps you all the way through this action packed adventure. To begin, Resident Evil 5 has 
 top notch graphics and it looks incredibly real. From the character's to the guns all the way to 
 the environments. The sound is crisp and clear. The game play is smooth and great. The cut scenes 
 action button sequences makes it return. So, when your sitting there watching the cut scenes make 
 sure you prepare yourself because a lot of the times you will need to press button combos otherwise 
 you will die. Resident Evil 5 has a lengthy campaign that can be done either alone, split screen 
 or co-op over xbox live with a friend. This game has a ton of replay value and any true Resident 
 Evil fan will play it more than once. That being said the famous resident evil mercenaries mode 
 makes it return. Leader boards are included to see how well you match up to other players around 
 the world. The physics and enemy A. I are top notch. The game play formula has not changed drastically 
 from Resident Evil 4 which is a bit surprising in this generation of consoles. If it inst broke 
 don't fix it is the approach the developers were going for. At times your partner and you will 
 be forced to separate and assist one another in order to reach the next mission objective. Your 
 A. I isn't very smart at times because she wastes a lot of ammo and gets in the way of a lot of 
 things. Some players maybe angered by the fact that you cannot reload and move around at the same 
 time but cmon it is not that big of a deal. A lot of people are let down because of the new approach 
 Capcom has taken because, a lot of fans expected this to be a survival horror hit, but instead 
 it is an action game with the emphasis on the team work. Though, scary at times just not scarier 
 in the sense of resident evil 4 or older resident games. but still a great game regardless. New 
 action controls are a great addition to the combat. You can punch uppercut or kick your enemies 
 depending on how stunned they are. There is a cover system similar to the one implemented in the 
 gears of war or rainbow six series. So is Resident Evil 5 a bad game, No in fact it is a instant 
 buy because it delivers a lot of new features and holding great game play mechanics from the previous 
 games while enhancing a great co-op experience. Though fans maybe disappointed with the action 
 rather than the horror resident evil is known for, but with the improved A. I and strong lengthy 
 campaign any shooter fan or fan of the resident evil series must have this in their collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fubbal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a complete joy to play through. Me and my buddy started and could not stop playing 
 until we beat it. It is just awsome. That's the only word I can really use to describe resident evil 
 5. This is also coming from someone who was never really a resident evil fan. I mean I played 4 and 
 really liked it but in my opinion everything is way more polished in 5. Resident evil 5 also combines 
 part 4's new system with more boss battles that are just great and some more great arcade style 
 action.
  
  The graphics are really really good looking. Some of the best to date. Chris and sheva look almost 
 real. They don't have any wierd type movements like some other games. All the people are well animated. The 
 enviroments are super cool also. Due to these wonderful changes the game also feels more atmospheric 
 than before. The sounds.......... great. The controls....... great. What more can you ask for? Oh co-op 
 huh well read on.
  
  This is the games shining point. Capcom is sick of gamers playing by themselves and you can tell 
 with this game and street fighter 4. You really must plan and exicute with your friend. You don't 
 just run and gun. Every level in this game is made for team work. Go into a sewer and some one will 
 have to shine the lantern and the other player must be ready to shoot. Can't get over to that building? How 
 about giving your friend a boost. Your friends dying run hurry up, man saved him/her just in time. You 
 watch the right side i'll take the left side. These are the moments that will have you and a friend 
 gasping in awe and terror.
  
  Resident evil is a step up from 4. Maybe some don't really think so but alone or with a friend you 
 will have a blast with title. This game will be one of those rare gems that i'll remember 10-15 
 years from now and say man they don't make em like that anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garry42
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Well I gotta say to start with that after initially playing the demo I was not going to purchase 
 this game, but after reading the critic and user reviews I decided to give it a go. I am one of those 
 people that hates this outdated control system, although I am fine with the limited amount that 
 can be carried. I mean it is really frustrating when a heap of zombies are coming at you in all 
 directions and you can't turn while aiming. I cannot agree with the makers of this game in this 
 regard. Game developers these days should know how to write and program a game to make it scary 
 and tense, not have to resort to easy option trickery like not being able to move while aiming to 
 create this effect. If you could move and shoot like in all other current 1st and 3rd person games 
 I would have given re5 at least 9.5, perhaps even higher. Even with the dodgy control system this 
 game is simply amazing, and I haven't even played co-op yet. From the very beginning it grabs you 
 and won't let go with a great variety of locations to explore and fight in. At this stage I have 
 completed approx three quarters of the game. The graphics are truly amazing with characters moving 
 and reacting in a VERY realistic way which immerses the player even more into the story that is 
 unfolding. In my opinion this game is gonna take something really special to beat it for 2009 game 
 of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_isj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Really i think Game Spot's over all rating was pretty accurate... if it would have just got a 9 
 or 10, it would really seem like they're just handing out the high scores anymore. Seriously though, 
 the game's great if you liked RE4 and wished to god at points that you had a friend that could 
 have helped you out in some of the harder areas of the game... this is what you were looking for 
 ... as for the 8.5 everyone was kind of upset with. The difference between RE3 and RE4 is major... 
 if not almost an entirely different game, only connected by the characters and universe the game 
 is set in... this stays true to 4 and doesn't do anything "ground breaking"; and doesn't stray 
 that much from 4 minus the new inventory system. Graphically the game is on par with how 4 looked 
 amazing on the last generation's consoles and 5 doesn't disappoint. I mean not to get anyone upset... 
 it's like a "high end" game such as the Gears of War series... hope i didn't step on to many toes 
 with that comment. If you were expecting a game from the series, other than a revised and redone 
 version of RE4... this game's not for you. It's slower paced in the fact that you CAN'T run and 
 gun might turn people off... my advise is if you tried the demo, or tried 4... that's pretty much 
 what to expect in a nut shell. If you r unable, know that it's NOT a Call of Duty type game with 
 twitch firing. It's thought out "every bullet counts" kind of shooting. If u keep that in mind 
 you'll love it. Overall, gotta' hand it to Gamespot... dead on with that 8.5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:46 pm PT
Review:  My Score - 7.9
  
  PROS -
  -It's Resident Evil!
  -Great Graphics
  -Upgrading weapons for Infinite ammo is great.
  -Two inventories to swap items between Chris 
 and Sheva is great. 
  -Ability to go back to chapters and repeat them for easter eggs and gain more money for great replay 
 value.
  -Amazing CO-OP with human player makes the game more exciting.
  -Variety of weapons kinda reminds me of GTA, major plus.
  
  CONS - 
  -Sheva can get annoying 
 sometimes and uses too much ammo. She constantly gets in the way. 
  -Not enough bag space early in the game. On the upside, once the weapon upgrades are maxed out 
 you won't have to worry about ammo.
  -Boss fights are not challenging. It really doesn't take long to figure out what to do but they 
 are very easily killed.
  -2nd person view takes away from the original style of RE. Trying to make the game like Halo is 
 asking for too much. If it ain't broken, don't fix it.
  -You can pass items on the ground to Sheva in rogue mode but cannot do it while in CO-OP with another 
 player.
  -Bad music, doesn't seem like a horror game.
  -Bad concept, doesn't feel like a RE game. What happened to crows jumping out at you and scaring 
 the crap out of you?
  -Bad storyline.
  
  Overall Review -
  I didn't get the chance to play RE4, to me it felt weird since I was used to the original. The 
 game reminds me of MGS and GTA but those two games are well designed compared to RE5. I really 
 enjoy the game in CO-OP but single play is a bit boring and Sheva is that smart as she constantly 
 uses up ammo and runs in to me for most of the time. 
  
  If your a Resident Evil fan, you'll like this game a lot. The story is a bit bad but we all knew 
 it would be since it could never be like the original. This happens with every game.
  
  Should I buy it or rent it? You should buy it, it'll last you a long time. It has a great replay 
 value and three modes to play along with Easter Eggs and costumes. If you wish to save your money, 
 you'll end up renting it for a long time. Great replay value!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dippy88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Loved it, played the demo thought it was cack! But brought the game and was extremely impressed. 
 I love the way you can upgrade guns, earn cash, sell treasure! The graphics are amazing, best out 
 on Xbox imo. Haven't finished the game yet, i'm at the ruins, but the boss fights have been awesome 
 and some kinda tough! The way that you are out of ammo alot of the time is good, reminds me of 
 the old resident evil's, but still, fanboys of the previous Resident Evil's weren't probably expecting 
 this and wanted something of the same, but I think that Capcom have took a huge step forward with 
 this game. Well done!
  
  Only thing I would say is that the Zombie don't feel like Zombies, they feel like monsters?? Not 
 your typical Zombie at all, but I think it's a good thing :) 
  
  Anyway, the game is fantastic and I would recommend to anyone!
  
  A*
  
  Dippy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avalanche39
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review for Resident Evil 5 which was promised to be the game of the year. Well to be 
 totally honest with you gamers, I do not like it at all. I WAS a Resident Evil freak when the first 
 game emerged on the Playstation. All the Resident Evil games were great, but the last one was in 
 2005, which was RE4, which is an awesome game and I very much enjoyed it. I only played this game 
 for like 2 hours and thats because for some reason RE5 does not do anything for me, and here are 
 some reasons why...
  
  Right off the start I do not like where the game takes place. Africa? What happened to the horror 
 like mansion? I really thought when this game was first being developed they would keep the game 
 play and camera view like in RE4 which they did, but I never expected the game to set place in 
 Africa. Not only does it ruin the horror/suspense like the first game introduced, but its more 
 of an action game now. Just plain action, no horror. The game is not scary at all. Remember in 
 the first game when you walk down the hallway and the hellhound jumps through the window? What 
 happened to those? To be honest if the game was set in a mansion or a huge hotel ot something I 
 might have liked it and been into the game more. A small African town is not a site for a Resident 
 Evil setting. 
  
  Next is the slow gameplay, for me that it. I guess I am so used to Gears Of War, Left 4 Dead, Call 
 Of Duty, Bioshock, ect. that this game is like playing in slow motion for me. You cant run and 
 shoot at the same time which absolutly ruins my stragedy. The knife does really no damage and the 
 zombie infected villagers take forever to kill. You'll burn a clip in just seconds if your being 
 attacked by 2 or more enemies. You will run out of ammo before know it, and then you depend on 
 your knife. Its about the size of a short sword, but still does really nothing to defend you. So 
 for you to think this is a run 'n' gun game like Left 4 Dead, think again. The action/fighting 
 is 10 times slower and frustrating to those going into this game thinking they are gonna bum rush 
 zombies killing them with a single shot. 
  
  Next is the cooperative play. I like how they included this, but the coop play doesnt even compare 
 to others like for example Gears Of War, for me it actually kinda killed the game even more. I 
 played with a buddy split screen and it didnt take time for us to pop back in Left 4 Dead. Today 
 I just played it in single player mode, with a computer AI, and wow it was just as worse. Sheva 
 did nothing but strike 2 zombies with her knife. Then I had to babysit her, which eventually I 
 was slaughtered by the executioner. So the AI cooperative did not make my gaming experience any 
 better.
  
  The good thing about this game is the graphics and detail. Absolutly stunning. Thats one thing 
 I will give this game. Capcom did it well.
  
  Overall I rated this game an 8.0 because if you are die hard Resident Evil gamer then this game 
 is for you. If you are a fan of Gears Of War or Left 4 Dead then I will rent this first like I 
 did and see how you like it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheIceman360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  RE5, what can i say good graphics alsome gameplay and killer two player. But the horror i mean 
 what RE5 does not get you scared. This does. I have to say the scarist thing on here is the chainsaw 
 dude (you only see him 3 times at least) . They are way freakey and they can still chop off your 
 head. The horror is not there compared to RE4. Plus one thing is the towards the end it turns into 
 a gunfight. The zombies actually have guns and fire at you. Crazy but this is wierder the part 
 that has aztec guys in the underground city made a big turnoff. It remined me of Tomb Radier with 
 the running and jumping. Any ways a die heart RE fan will be disapointed but newcomers won't. So 
 RE5 is not a contine to RE4 but i think the purpose of RE5 was to finsh of RE1. I wish the next 
 RE will finsh off RE2 but we will see. If you like horror invest in somthing else but if you like 
 killing and two players than this is your game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NUK3_D4DDY
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  ive got three words that wrap this game up WORTH THE WAIT!!! not the best resi to date but definately 
 smokes resi 4, great gameplay mechanics and ultra stunning visuals make this arguably one of the 
 top 5 best games on the 360 if not the best. the story will suck u in and leave u screaming for 
 more, only problem is its too damn short. the great thing about this game is that the majority 
 of the weapons use real names such as the Heckler and Kolch P8, great new weapons too like proximity 
 mines and the hand to hand system is incredible, the co-op system is a great add-on much better 
 than playing with the cpu cuz a computer controlled sheva is STUPID so get a friend and team up 
 to take this baby on, also play on hard mode cuz it is ridiculously easy. although many people 
 are hyped about the new setting of the game i miss blasting the hell out of slow dumb zombies and 
 the occasional tyrant but that doesnt mean the new enemies suck they will kick ur ass if u let 
 ur guard down for a second also wesker's new look is smokiiin. in short buy buy buy nd if u got 
 the cash get the collectors edition much more worth it. KIJUJUUUU!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OLdSchool661
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  he Resident Evil 5 title took a while to be released, however it was entirely worth the wait. The 
 game sucks you into the world and atmosphere that you are playing in and you really feel as if 
 you are trying to survive amongst all the infected and savage villagers. You are immersed in the 
 environments and the graphics are breathtaking to say the least. Detail is everywhere! The gameplay 
 is thrilling, suspenseful and unforgetful and the various types of weapons are used according to 
 how one wants to plow his/her way through the checkpoints. It is clear that the game developers 
 used every resource they had in makin the RE5 title nothing less than spectacular for the ones 
 who can appreciate such a masterpiece. The more that you play the game the more addicting it becomes. 
 Quite simply, the Resident Evil 5 title is pure grade A++ fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zombie07
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so first I would like to say that i enjoyed this game very much and im a big fan of the series. 
 I dont think this is racist at all I find it kinda ridiculous that people think it is.
  
  Story: RE 5 basically unfolds everything that happened in the past games and explains what the 
 Las plagas are. You'll find most of the information in documents and computers than cut scenes. 
 
  
  Sound: The voice acting can be predictable and it almost seems if capcom thinks the players are 
 to dumb to understand whats going on. One actor will say something, but then another will repeat 
 exactly what he or she said just simplified. The guy that played Chris seem to have no emotion 
 or he would put it in the wrong places. Not sure if that was the actors fault or the writer. Capcom 
 put the classic sounds from RE 4 when opening a box and some of the same gun sound effects. The 
 music comes up when ever you're fighting or when you're in a boss fight and it then dies away when 
 everything is dead just like in RE 4. I liked that Capcom did all this, but i think for new people 
 that want to get into this game will think that the sound effects are passed its time.
  
  Gameplay: It plays like RE 4 alot. Shooting enemies in the face or knees gets them stunned and 
 then you run up and press the X button. Sheva aims for the knees or the head depending what weapon 
 she has or how close the enemy is. For bosses all you have to do is find a weak point, shoot it 
 or use the items that might be around the stage and then shoot its other weak point. Again, new 
 players might think this will be outdated but I like it.
  
  Graphics: RE 5 has amazing graphics its as simple as that. You go all over the place from markets, 
 swamps, caves etc. and they all look different. Some places reminded me of Far cry 2 or Tomb Raider 
 but then later into the game you feel more like your playing RE.
  
  Overall: RE 5 doesnt bring anything new to gaming. Its just RE, if your a fan of the series you 
 will enjoy it, but if you're new to the franchise you will most likely not know whats going on 
 and will think that its outdated. That might be Capcoms fault, but for the fans it feels just right. 
 If you're really really wanting to get into the series you will have to know many things about 
 RE like the T-virus, G-virus etc. No watching the movies does not count. Look up the GAME storyline 
 for this on wikipedia. I wish some how Capcom would make it appeal to both new players and the 
 fans because im sick of hearing my friends on xbox live trash talk about how outdated it seems. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  After playing RE4 ten times, with full completion, you can guarantee that I was excited for RE5. 
 Now that it has come out, and getting time in with the new features, is it a step in the right 
 direction, or is it following a "for every good thing, there are two bad ones?"
  
  First off, the graphics are a step in the right directon. Everything from Chris and Sheva, down 
 to to the smallest strand of grass, this game looks phenominal! I have maybe seen only one instance 
 of clipping, and that is when Chris is wearing the MP5 on his back, and the clip from the gun goes 
 right through the holster for his knife. Other than that, I can honestly say that this is one of 
 the best looking games on the 360, and games in gerneral for this generation of consoles. Lighting 
 effects, shadows, water movement, sun rays in the distant backgrounds and so on help this game 
 come to life.
  
  Now, on to the major head turners for the game, the gameplay. New to RE is the inclusion of a co-op 
 parnter, who actually carries guns, ammo, and health. For what it's worth, she doesn't get herself 
 killed as much as other A. I. partners, but she does like to chew threw ammo like there is no tomorrow! 
 Half of my play time has been with her pumping her ammo in my back, shooting at an ememy in front 
 of me. Unless I move, or kill the enemy myself, she will continue to do so. On top of that, she 
 stands way too close to you sometimes, while others she is too far away. A little more balancing, 
 and this would have been a very smart A. I. partner. Now on to the inventory system everyone has 
 been talking about. I have one word for this... annoying. You have nine inventory slots on one character, 
 eighteen for both. When Chris has at least four guns at all times, that leaves fourteen slots to 
 carry Sheva's weapons, ammo, and then health items. What's worse is that you can't pause the game 
 to use the inventory system, unless you start up the game, restart, or just die. That is it. All 
 item management has to be done real time, so if your are in the middle of a big fight, and one 
 of the items you need isn't on a hotswap (one of the four directional pad buttons) well you are 
 pretty much up the creek with a leaky boat and no paddle! That is no exaggeration. Unless you are 
 fast, and/or have the patience of a saint, this will start to wear on your nerves quickly. As for 
 the for the rest of the game, If you have played RE4, you are pretty much up to date. Aiming is 
 done over the shoulder, you can't move and shoot (?) , all weapons in the game except for maybe five, 
 can be upgraded, gold and treasures to get the upgrades for guns, costurmes and extra items, are 
 in the enviornment, both in plain view, hidden, and dropped though enemies you defeat (along with 
 ammo, of course) , and you have melee attacks, like hooks, uppercuts, roundhouse kicks, and even 
 a neckbreaker move, which is awesome. You also have co-op moves like helping your partner up and 
 or over a piece of the environment. For what it's worth, the game is very fun, but had it had the 
 inventory system like something found in RE4, this could have been so much more. 
  
  Now onto the sound. It's a mixed bag. The good news is that all the enemies and guns sound menacing 
 and loud, and the envionment always has some ambient noise in the background. Even the soundtrack, 
 when the music plays, is well put together. However, the voices, while the acting is great, the 
 lines that they say are sometimes on the huh side. Of course, this wouldn't be RE without some 
 cheesy lines, but for a story that is as serous at this, less would've been more. 
  
  For the first time in a mainstream RE title, the Outbreak games don't count, we have online play... to 
 an extent. The only thing out of the box that you get is online co-op with a friend or someone 
 over XBL. That is it, but it's fun. However, Capcom has stated that a few weeks after the game 
 launches, we will get some downloadable content for online verses and deathmatch, as well as co-op 
 mercenaries.... for 400 Microsoft points. That is a bunch of bull. Capcom is really milking the 
 gamers for what they are worth now. First, DL content for Street Fighter IV in the shape of extra 
 costumes, and now or a few extra game modes that should have been in the final product anyway. 
 
  
  Overall, the gameplay is heading for the right direction, but some of the A. I. choices are weird, 
 and the inventory system needs some work. However, the online co-op is great, and helps balance 
 out the problems Sheva has working by the computer. It's a great ride, hampered by some flaws, 
 but RE is moving in an even newer direction, and is becoming more of a full-fledged action game, 
 and with each entry it looses some more of its horror roots. If the RE4 forumla still works for 
 you, or you want an intense action game that can be completely beaten with a partner, look no further 
 than RE5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perrinbdk66
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The actually game takes 11 to 14 hours but offers many hours of bonus and unlockable material. 
 Language is rather minor for a "Strong Language" mark. It consists of 1 F-word, 3 GD, 2 B**ch, 
 1 B**t*rd, about 10 S**t, and some damns and hells peppered throughout. It also has a few vain 
 religious exclamations. Most language is found in cut scenes. The villagers speak what sounds like 
 Swahili, and I don't understand what they say. As for Sex and the like, there is one female character 
 who wears a provocative shirt, showing some side cleavage. As far as violence goes, this game is 
 very violent. It has horror themes as well as constant killing of infected "zombies". While these 
 people act somewhat human like, upon dying they show an alien-like/plant creature that take the 
 place of their heads. In many ways this is Capcom's artistic way of showing the gamer that the 
 semi-intelligent zombies are not in fact normal human beings. The game contains blood and gore, 
 albeit somewhat less in the "splashes" that other gamers like Gears of War copiously exhibit. I 
 found this game very enjoyable and quite rewarding when played co-op with a friend. It is not however 
 a game made for sensitive or young audiences. It is aimed for more mature crowds. I loved it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth the wait and to top all that off Wesker is a crazy sob in this RE. They made 
 more bosses then ever and the co-op is very cool, now me and my brother can play RE together finaly 
 and its better to have a friend or a brother or a sister to play with you then computer, because 
 for some reason computer isnt that good helping you fight on monsters. Thank god when you beat 
 the game you get extras and infite ammo which is what every RE game should have after completing 
 the game. They also brought back my favorite RE enemy, the LICKERS, and they come in packs, like 
 5 or 10 at a time which makes it very challenging. The only part I wish they put in here was the 
 Merchent and he was very cool to buy stuff from but you can still buy at a shop and its still good 
 to buy thier. So anyways People who have a 360 must and I mean MUST BUY THIS  
 or they will be slaughtered by the exacutioner. But if you do he will buy you a good gift and I 
 dont know what hes gonna give but I heard its bloody awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finly
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  There's been lots of complaints about RE5 being a clone of RE4. That's just one game, boring mechanics 
 from another. Can the same not be said about Call of Duty 1-5, Halo 1-3, and tons of other games?
 
  I'm not saying Call of Duty or Halo are bad games, hell they're two of my favorite games. The 
 point I'd like to get across before I start is that just because I game borrows a lot of the controls 
 and feel from the last, doesn't make it bad.
  
  Ok, to start off, the game is great. The setting, is a lot better to me than RE4's, and the detail 
 put into this setting, is just wonderful. As you've probably heard or seen, it's location is a 
 fictional African country (By the way, if you think this game is racist, go to hell, and you are 
 stupid) Now, again you'll see the similarities in level design very early in the game, however, 
 there's a lot of things different about it too, especially because the game is co-op. There's is 
 plenty of places to go, and there's a good amount of time spent holding out an area with a friend. 
 It feels somewhat like the mercenary mode at times while playing the story. I for one like this, 
 because it gives variety and takes away from the game being very linear. This also makes searching 
 for items a bit more hard, and dare I say fun.
  
  Like I've mentioned the game now has co-op, which is great! Now I haven't even tried to play with 
 the AI, but I did hear that it was very bad, BUT if you have friends (and I hope you do) then it 
 shouldn't be a problem. Also if you are a friendless loser, you can still play on Xbox Live. There 
 are some things, however, that bug me when playing with a friend. The inventory can be a bit annoying 
 at times, both it's size and the fact that you can't trade weapons, and you do have to use it in 
 real time, which didn't really bother me, but it may be an issue for some.
  I don't feel like going into to much depth on co-op though, bottom line, it's fun as hell with 
 a friend.
  
  Alright, now to the game itself, it's my favorite in the series. To be honest, I love the way RE 
 changed it's style in RE4, and I'm glad they kept it. Now, it's not amazingly better than 4, but 
 it's new, it's improved, there's more things to do (machine guns actually are helpful now!) , and 
 it's overall a better version of Resident evil 4. Every gun is useful in it's own little way, unlike 
 4, where the shotgun was your best friend usually. 
  The story, well the story isn't really important to me in resident evil games, it's not like Metal 
 Gear Solid, where the priority is story, and then gameplay (I liked Metal gear by the way =D) . 
 
  Let me just go ahead and say it again to get my point across, this is an upgraded version of RE4. 
 Just like gears 2 was an upgraded gears one, and so on and so on, if you liked the first you'll 
 like the second, and the third and the fourth and so on and so on.
  
  I really think this is a game that doesn't need a review, just like Modern Warfare 2 won't need 
 a review, and basically any game that keeps past successful game play.
  
  Games like Halo wars, that try something Innovative, they need reviews, because sometimes, they 
 turn out to suck. 
  I think it was Adam Sessler (Boy he gave this game a tough time) that said games that try something 
 new, can be a success, even if they have a lot of flaws, his example being dead rising. 
  I found this to be a bit hypocritical, them giving games like Call of Duty and Halo such high ratings.
 
  
  The only reason I point these things out, is so people don't listen to the lower scores and reviews.
 
  Also, excuse me for picking on Sessler, he even said he doesn't like giving scores for games.
 
  
  Then again he also said the game is racist and I lost a lot of respect for him right there.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BarryBurtonman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil 5 is a true resident evil game. Not only because the story has something to do with 
 the rest of the series, but it actually has some creepy moments. Resident evil 4 is a good game, 
 but I just could not relate it to the other games in the series because the story just did not 
 seem right to me. Plus the designers did not even make an attempt to make the game scary. Resident 
 Evil 5 takes the elements of Resident evil 4 and mixes them with the other classic installations 
 in the series. Plus, with the addition of Co-op, it is pretty awesome to be able to play Resident 
 evil with someone else. That was a good idea. Really the only complaint I have about the game is 
 the fact that you don't save at typewriters! The save system is more like Gears of War with checkpoints 
 and chapters than it is like Resident Evil. But overall, the chainsaw dude is cool, the heartstoppers 
 are awesome, and the huge boss battles are epic. If you have a 360 or a PS3, or you are a fan of 
 the ENTIRE series, do not pass this one up. Cuz this one's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col_Horton
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is the next edition in a very successful series of games, and I was very happy 
 with it though it was over hyped. The great things about RE 5 is the graphic are just awesome and 
 the level design is very good though there are a few areas do give off a i'm port over from RE 
 4 but luckily its only in a couple ares and it does not last long. The story is well done though 
 short and the voice acting is good, and the dual player style is well rounded and works well. Unfortunately 
 there are some major problems with the game, first off being the inventory system which though 
 back to an early RE style does not work well and when the two body armours are used together they 
 do not combine and take up 2 of the 9 slots you are allowed to carry, put on top of that the weapons 
 and ammo and health style you find out near the end that you just can't fit everything you need. 
 And then there is the player control, for us you come from RE 4 wii edition or even the game-cube 
 version the controls in RE5 are sluggish and take away from the game a bit. But with that said 
 RE5 is well worth the money and any Resident Evil fan should go pick it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXFr34k_0uTXx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  RE5 is typically next generation RE4, which is more than half the reason I grade this game a 9, 
 alongside lighting effects and excellent depth. I loved RE4, and 5 took nothing away from that. 
 I played through the game on medium, veteran, and professional ... and the challenge isn't all 
 that hard, except damage taken. Some boss fights and creatures may be frustrating, but you will 
 not have too much of a problem if you have the right kind of upgraded equipment. The bonus features 
 are okay, given the opportunity to use unlimited ammo will always have people coming back for more. 
 Aside from that, there is a bunch of various unlocks like different char files, char statues, alt. 
 uniforms, game types, etc ... all nothing that beneficial for the average gamer. If you are like 
 me, and a RE junkie since day one, you will appreciate all the extra files and content. :]
  
  However, the game was too short and repetitive. Many reviewers will say this game is "so freakin' 
 fun mann!!" and "you can play this over and over again without getting bored." This is true at 
 first, and at first I mean a way, WAY through the game. After you unlock everything ... it just 
 gets kind of repetitive and much of the content just seems so old. Hell, after beating the game 
 three times, it just made me want to play RE4, in which I did =P.
  
  I would definitely recommend this game to anyone though. It is a great game. And for all those 
 gamers who say this game could be better with a walk-while-shoot concept, and I pledge the opposite. 
 It wouldn't be RE if it was walk, shoot ... it would take too much away from the RE atmosphere, 
 and too much of a GoW type gameplay (which isn't bad, but just not RE =] ) . So if you decide to 
 buy, rent, or borrow this game, ENJOY!!!
  
  -Your buddy Fr34k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProfileth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  The Resident Evil Series has always been about the fear of zombies coming towards you and you and 
 a partner (not necessarily a fighting one Ashley for example unless you count "Leon, Help!!" as 
 an attack) had to get through them and reach a certain point. In RE 4 they included a shop were 
 you could upgrade your weapons/armor and upgrade your weapons. They changed the shop keeper to 
 a after level screen, which I personally dislike because it gets rid of and sense of immersion 
 and the fact that (almost) every weapon in the game can be found makes it not quite as rewarding 
 when you find a weapon, because in RE4 their were only a few weapons that you could find ingame 
 and the rest you had to buy. The addition of coop was a welcome one to say the least, it does have 
 slight drawbacks though. You can not trade weapons with one anther unless you are playing splitscreen 
 and it has to be during a end of level equipment. Playing alone the computer ally is a decent shot 
 at best and a at worst she is pretty stupid. A couple of problems include using snipers at close 
 range and sniping with a pistol from long, another issue is the commands you give her are way to 
 limited. Would a real trained special opts person only have the commands "cover me" and "attack"? 
 But I digress, RE 5 most of the game is the same so if you liked GOW or liked RE 4 you may like 
 RE5. The ability to move sideways and more context based moves are present and a few (VERY FEW) 
 areas were cover can be used, along with a large array of enemies and a very impressive graphical 
 experience make for a good game. As I always like to say if you are not sure you will like it, 
 rent it first. 
  
  p. s If it is before April 5 you can give them two games on a list and get Resident Evil 5 for only 
 $20, how is that for a deal. Here is the link for list of games and details, I strongly urge doing 
 this if you have extra games you no longer play.
  http://www. gamestop. com/gs/specialty/tradeins/re5offer/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jubbrulez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  Well, RE5 is here. And it's bloody amazing.
  It has just the perfect pacing, great plot and fun gameplay and freggin' INCREDIBLE graphics.
 
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Absolutely amazing. The model and environmental details are simply staggering, flawless textures 
 and lighting just add to it. The world is dripping with detail and amazing sights. The guns look 
 awesomely modeled. Wesker looks incredible in the game, his detail just unbelievable. Absolutely 
 stunning all round.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  
  Lots and lots and lots of fun! The amazing RE4 template has been moved up to its top level. the 
 weapons and pacing are perfectly balanced. You can become overwhelmed at times and it adds to the 
 amazing atmosphere and panic. The boss fights are incredible, lots of fun and NEVER unfair. The 
 scariest enemies are the reapers, absolutely terrifying beasts that have insta-kill moves! Argh. 
 AMAZING!
  
  Lifespan - 8/10
  
  I completed RE5 in 7 hours. it's abit shorter than RE4 but far more replayable. The merceraries 
 is a hell of a lot of fun and is endlessly replayable. the co-op is awesome. replay is endless 
 with this to be honest.
  
  9.5/10
  
  Action Game of the Year 2009. ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokills
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:14 am PT
Review:  I got Resident evil 5 when it came out. I can't say much on Co-OP online because my friend had really 
 bad internet but it still played pretty smooth and its so much fun playing with someone you know! I 
 never seem to happy with the computer playing but i must have the worst luck with her cause she 
 kept getting in my way and barely shot anything.... I think the graphics are very nice to look at 
 they did an awesome job with that and the controlling is just like Re4 i love it even though i 
 am not the bestst i still beat re4 ha! I think this one was a bit faster than RE4 for some reason 
 maybe cause i been playing RE5 alllooooooot but ive played RE4 quite alot. Its not a bad thing by 
 the way :) ! RE5 has a good amount of time to beat it... I am not playing it on really hard to see 
 what i can unlock.... The bag space you get is kinda lame only like 8 slots? i still had no problem 
 with it that much but it'd be nice if they gave you a 10 slot... Very fun cut seen button pressing! 
 People who say the controlling is so bad and why they kept the same controlling in RE4 its a awesome 
 controlling system compare to the old ones there ARE some things they didnt go through but then 
 again i was playing online and my friend has bad connection but it rarely happend... Very fun puzzling 
 stuff! Its really a great game it derversed a better rating Gamespotty!!! If you think this game 
 is frustrating you should play mirrors edge hehe that is a good game also... ANYways If you havent 
 played RE5 you should try the DEMO before buying the game... You got some nice weapons and some 
 really cool features i want to unlock! IF YOUR AN RESIDENT EVIL fan you should look into this game.! 
 Theres nothing much to else i didn't find this game so frustrating just you gotta think fast and 
 think slow xD! Hope ya'll can agree even though theres always someone whos going to disagree and 
 say whatever :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OddballTECH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  Pros: Great action, new weapons, more melee attacks, crisp graphics, more environmental damage 
 and explosions, co-op adds replay value, mercenaries missions remain in this title, not too long 
 and not too short, big boss battles
  
  Cons: Uninspired puzzles, predictable storyline, sub-par sound, lacks horror aspect, item swapping 
 slows down gameplay, no major control enhancements, voice to mouth sync is off at times
  
  Truly, it hurts me a bit to say this game is "all flash, no substance." After playing through Resident 
 Evil 4 about five or six times, I was hoping Resident Evil 5 would blow me away, and be even better 
 than the last. In reality, it just did not live up to its predecessor. Although this game has made 
 obvious improvements such as the revamped visuals and the addition of cooperative play, it seems 
 to fall short in several areas. Personally, I was expecting much more from a next-gen Resident 
 Evil game. Despite these problems, Resident Evil 5 is still a great game, and they have definitely 
 added some really cool things to the game.
  
  The most obvious addition to this game is the co-op feature, which allows two people to play through 
 the campaign, either through split screen, system link, or Xbox Live. One player plays as Chris 
 Redfield, and one plays as Sheva Alomar, Chris's new partner. Chris carries a machete, and uses 
 more down-to-earth melee attacks such as the straight punch and the "stomp" feature. Sheva carries 
 a combat knife and has more acrobatic melee attacks, like the somersault kick. The cooperative 
 play was well-integrated, and both characters will always appear in each cut-scene. This new feature 
 definitely adds replay value to the game, as many players will want to go through the game again 
 and again with different friends. The good thing about this game's co-op feature is that it does 
 not feel tacked-on. It was obviously created around this multiplayer aspect, as there are many 
 actions which involve two people.
  
  Despite the pros of the co-op play, there are some slightly damaging aspects to it as well. One 
 obvious area is the item swapping menu. Although useful, this feature can prove to be very frustrating. 
 For example, let's say that you are fighting a chainsaw-wielding enemy. Your partner really needs 
 health, but the chainsaw guy is right around the corner. So you run up to him or her, press Y to 
 open the 3 x 3 grid menu, move the cursor to the health, press A, scroll down to give, and... oh, 
 you just got decapitated. The game does not pause when in the item menu, which hinders the combat. 
 Some people argue that Resident Evil 4's menu broke up the combat by pausing the game during item 
 selection, but I think that it worked better than what they have in RE5. Item swapping was a good 
 idea, but was not well-executed. It would have been better if a player could simply hotkey an item 
 to the d-pad and give it to the other player with the press of a button. Aside from a few flaws, 
 the item menu is very useful, and it does allow you to hotkey your weapons for quick and easy weapon 
 selection. 
  
  As far as graphics go, Resident Evil 5 has made some great visual enhancements, which is to be 
 expected from a next-gen console. The lighting and detail is much better, and the explosions and 
 fire effects have improved immensely. Nearly every aspect of the game looks good, although the 
 water effects were a bit bland. However, the graphics are not beyond criticism. Back before the 
 game was released, the developers discussed how they were going to base the visuals loosely off 
 of Black Hawk Down. They said that they would use the daytime environments to create an eerie setting 
 through the use of shadows and glare effects. The problem is, they really did not do any of this. 
 Although the lighting and shadow effects are great, they are nothing like I expected them to be. 
 I pictured Chris Redfield standing in an alley, looking upward into the burning sunlight, seeing 
 enemies jumping down from rooftops. What we get is simply a Resident Evil game that takes place 
 during the day; there is really nothing eerie about it. Don't get me wrong, the graphics are great; 
 they are just not on the level that I was expecting.
  
  Gameplay is Resident Evil 5's strongest feature. Although the control scheme takes a bit of getting 
 used to, it is fairly easy to use after a while. The addition of new melee attacks improves the 
 combat system by adding some variety. The dynamic cut-scenes make a return as well, making the 
 game a bit more immersive. The main weapon menu works very well too. At the beginning of each new 
 chapter, players will be able to purchase new weapons and upgrades, as well as sell their treasures 
 for more money. As much as I miss the merchant of old, this new setup works well, because it also 
 lets you do these things each time you die. This is good, because it allows players to rearrange 
 the weapons they decide to take with them if they find out that the ones they originally chose 
 did not work out well. Another great thing about the gameplay is that it has a good variety of 
 action. Players can fight in the streets, use mounted turrets, fire heavy machine guns in the back 
 of a moving vehicle, and much more. Due to this variety, the gameplay does have some memorable 
 moments, including some really awesome boss battles. 
  
  The only things that really bother me about the gameplay are the unimproved controls, the horror 
 aspect, and the environments. I feel like the developers thought that since Resident Evil 4 was 
 rated so highly, they did not need to change the controls. I agree that RE4's controls were good, 
 but they were not completely perfect. As a result, neither are this game's controls. Players still 
 cannot fire weapons while moving, which can be very frustrating during more tense gameplay moments. 
 The horror aspect is also lacking. I find myself asking "Is this survival-horror, or just survival?" 
 It could be that we have just grown accustomed to horror, and it is hard to scare people these 
 days, but I think its more than that. Where are the levels in which players must defend buildings 
 from enemy attacks? They were present in much of Resident Evil 4, but it is only seen in the first 
 level of Resident Evil 5. Yay, I get to move two bookcases in front of windows in the entire game! 
 Its almost like they just completely forgot about that aspect of gameplay, which hurts the game's 
 overall fear factor. The fact that this game takes place during the day also takes away from the 
 scariness. If only they would have incorporated more interesting shadow and glare effects like 
 they said they would, this game could have been much more horrifying. At times, it felt as though 
 I was playing Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. The only difference was that I was fighting infected 
 enemies, and the main character looked like someone I wanted to punch. Think about it though: this 
 game is supposed to be a survival horror, but it now seems more like just an action game.
  
  I'm going to devote this paragraph to discussing the environments, because I feel that there 
 is much to discuss in this area. When the game first started, it was actually kind of eerie, and 
 foreshadowed great danger. Walking through the streets of that run-down African town, I saw a group 
 of thugs huddling around a burlap sack bound by ropes. The bag was wriggling as if a person were 
 inside it, and in a moment, the thugs began to beat on that helpless person with nail infested 
 2 x 4's. Now that's scary! The developers could have played off of the idea of being alone in a 
 place where you have no help, a place where everything is so vastly different than what most are 
 used to. But they did not, and that bothered me. Another mistake they made was taking us out of 
 the beautifully eerie outdoor environments, and into the dark, indoor environments. Just when Africa 
 was beginning to get scary, I end up in an underground temple that looks like something pulled 
 right out of a Tomb Raider game. I begin to do puzzles involving reflecting sunlight with angled 
 mirrors in order to open doors; by then, I am convinced that I am playing Uncharted, except for 
 the fact that my character looks like Ben Stiller on steroids. After the temple comes the pipe-ridden 
 industrial environments, and by then I feel like they just copied RE4's pattern. It is hard to 
 describe how much these things annoy me. Nevertheless, I had fun playing through the levels. At 
 least there was a decent variety of areas to combat in.
  
  The sound quality is another area which could have used some improvement. The dialogue sounds a 
 bit muffled at times, which is inexcusable for a next-gen console like a PS3 or a 360. The voice 
 acting, although decent, could have been a lot better had they not used such cliche dialogue. Also, 
 the mouth movements of the characters do not always match the vocal track. For a while, I was wondering 
 if I got the Japanese version of the game, because at times the characters' mouths seemed to move 
 even after they stopped talking. Then I realized that it only really happened with Chris Redfield. 
 I know for a fact that they used motion capture for the facial movements and character actions. 
 So, I ask, why do the mouth movements look so awkward for Chris Redfield? I think its partly because 
 Chris Redfield looks "funny," for lack of a better word. His is very disproportional, and therefore, 
 the motion capture was probably difficult to match to the computer generated models. Aside from 
 a few flaws, the musical score is well-suited to the gameplay, and the weapon sounds are very good 
 as well.
  
  Further adding to the replay value are the mercenaries missions, which make a comeback for Resident 
 Evil 5. For those who are unfamiliar with these missions, they are basically time trials in which 
 players will try to kill as many enemies as possible before time runs out. Throughout the level, 
 you can pick up ammo, health, and even time extensions to add seconds to the clock. Mercenaries 
 mode can be played in single player or co-op, online or off. Although I was glad that they included 
 this mode, I was hoping they would have something similar to Call of Duty: World at War's "Nazi 
 Zombie Mode" (Nacht der untoten) , in which players would have to defend a house for as long as 
 possible with the enemies arriving in increasingly larger numbers.
  
  It is evident that Resident Evil 5 did not turn out to be as good as everyone hoped it would be. 
 But, that's not to say that it is a disaster. This game is, without a doubt, a fun and entertaining 
 experience which fans of the series will not want to skip out on. It may not be quite as awesome 
 as Resident Evil 4 in certain aspects, but it does improve in many different areas. And when I 
 say "all flash, no substance," it is really not that harsh of a criticism. I think that the developers 
 focused much time on the graphics (maybe not necessairily in the correct areas) , when the gameplay 
 and levels needed more attention. But what can I say; I have been playing Resident Evil 5 non-stop 
 since its release. That must mean that Capcom did something right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenstyle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  The Resident Evil 5 title took a while to be released, however it was entirely worth the wait. 
 The game sucks you into the world and atmosphere that you are playing in and you really feel as 
 if you are trying to survive amongst all the infected and savage villagers. You are immersed in 
 the environments and the graphics are breathtaking to say the least. Detail is everywhere! The 
 gameplay is thrilling, suspenseful and unforgetful and the various types of weapons are used according 
 to how one wants to plow his/her way through the checkpoints. It is clear that the game developers 
 used every resource they had in makin the RE5 title nothing less than spectacular for the ones 
 who can appreciate such a masterpiece. The more that you play the game the more addicting it becomes. 
 Quite simply, the Resident Evil 5 title is pure grade A++ fun!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadalus91
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:07 am PT
Review:  Ok, so it is obvious to me that there a lot of mixed reviews. I can see why. 
  Let me first start off by saying that this is very good looking game, almost as good as MGS4, however 
 i cannot compare the two. 
  The Co op element in this game works like a treat, having a partner really does it make it a lot 
 more fun, although i must say i would not really play this by myself knowing that it can be played 
 with a friend and lets be honest the AI partner is not so good. 
  The story of Resident Evil 5 is very good, it sees new faces added into the series and brings back 
 a few old ones, Resident Evil is very story driven so you should expect to see a lot of cutscenes, 
 again not as my many as MGS4 but still a good few. This will be no problem for the fans like myself, 
 but maybe for newcomers to the series, if you are a newcomer you can choose to look at the history 
 of Resident Evil through the Libraby on the main menu.
  Boss fights are fun and are not just all about pumping led into them, they take strategy and with 
 a friend this is a lot of fun. 
  Going co op is the way to go on this game, it is fun, you are able to share items such as ammo, 
 healing items, money and other things.
  Replayability is no problem with various difficulty settings and a lot of unlockables such as The 
 Mercanaries and no im not talking about the "blow everything to crap" Mercanries series. I am talking 
 about a survival game mode, made fun by many unlockable characters and varients, also this Mercanaries 
 has online leaderboards and can also be played Co op, with DLC coming out (Downloadable Content) 
 this is sure to keep you going.
  It is at the very least worth the rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gstormerwill05
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:32 am PT
Review:  Where do I start with this one . Resident evil 5 demo hit a couple of months ago and I for one 
 was at wits how the controls were set. I also was one of few who was on the fence about the game 
 when it was announced . The game from the start to finish is the best Survival horror / action 
 game I have ever played on the next gen systems . The enemies , bosses and various puzzles add 
 to a game that graphically wows from the onset. The other great things are weapon upgrades and 
 swapping items with your partner add to the overall game play . The story is not short on twist 
 turns and second guessing that all other resident evil games have had in them . Overall you owe 
 it to yourself to play this master work by capcom . The game will have you hooked from the start 
 to finish . I am still speechless from the ending and you will deff. playing mult. games on this 
 one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodnathan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:01 am PT
Review:  res evil 5 is a good a game if you are into the res evil seris it answer a lot of quests and final 
 the series ends if u are into that and like the other res evil games this is a must co-op could 
 use some improving have to wait till the person gets to a checkpoint to join there boss are good 
 some easy and some hard that story of the game is great the core gamplay could use work but after 
 then that its all great it would take a atleast 10hours to complete and basic it is worth the money 
 my personal commet for this game would be that its is a great third person shoter and i can see 
 why it took so long to bring it out the graphics in res evil 5 are great so it is worth taking 
 it in there are also some cutscence where u have to push buttoms it really adds to the exprience 
 it tokk me 10hours to complete 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucbadin
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game will be for sure the game of the year. Sorry Halo ODST, sorry Bioshock 2 but Capcom have 
 made a perfect job! Good graphics , good gameplay, hours and hours of fun! Good enemies too, and 
 now they are more smart! This is the best Resident Evil ever made. The Only thing that isnt very 
 good is the inventory, a little confused but its relevant . Well , i dont have words for this 
 excelent job made by Capcom, and i am sure that even the people who doesnt like the game will 
 play!
  The other great thing in the game is the multiplayer mode, simple, but very funny, this game have 
 being made for the multiplayer, the one player campaing is awesome too but i prefer the multiplayer.
 
  Sheva is another great thing too, because there is moments in the game that you will say : Oh 
 my God im gonna die! Its impossible to kill these guys!
  But Sheva will be there ever you need, to help you and theres moments that you dont have to press 
 any button and she will use the Herbs on you if you are injuried.
  Well , only i can do now is wait for other games, and perhaps a Resident Evil 6 in the future, 
 everything is possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8berse6
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I've loved Resident Evil games for as long as I've been playing them, they've always been tense, 
 but I've always hated the controls. RE4 revolutionized the controls, and made them, dare I say 
 it, usable. I was finally able to actually hit what I was shooting at and it was bliss. From there 
 I thought that there was no where to go but up, with better controls, better graphics, better AI, 
 and better everything, but RE5 really didn't deliver.
  
  Instead of moving forward like I thought it would the Resident Evil series is not only standing 
 still, but in my mind, may have slightly moved backwards even. I was hoping that RE5 would finally 
 allow me to shoot and move at the same time, a hope, which was soon extinguished by the demo. The 
 controls are some of the worst I have seen in this generation of videogames. While the controls 
 have not changed much since RE4 the combat has. The enemies now surround you, which makes the sluggish 
 controls much more noticeably slow and the inability to move and shoot even more apparent and frustrating. 
 Most of the tense moments in the game are not due to fighting against smart enemies or overwhelming 
 numbers, but because the controls are terrible. I think that a truly good survival horror game 
 is not one that is tense because of bad controls, but one that has perfect controls and yet has 
 the right mood and has good enemy AI to make it tense.
  
  Some new "improvements" to the game are co-op play and a cover system. The co-op play is what makes 
 this game truly frustrating if you are playing alone. Your partner's AI sucks and she will constantly 
 die because she rushes straight into the middle of packs of zombies. If she dies you lose and have 
 to start over. The combat has a 360 degree quality to it because it is supposed to be easier to 
 handle since you have twice the firepower, but so long as you are the only one playing you will 
 be dispatching most of the enemies meaning that you'll have to watch your own front, back and sides, 
 and those of Sheva, your partner. Once you start playing with a friend to combat shines, but this 
 is only true if that person is already familiar with the control scheme, if they are not they'll 
 be about as much help as a blind sniper. The new cover system is also completely worthless. Once 
 you are in cover you cannot change your vantage point, or change cover without standing up, leaving 
 cover and repositioning yourself, which is frustrating and inconvenient. Unfortunately you are 
 forced to take cover in the later levels since enemy zombies have guns and grenades.
  
  Why the hell did Capcom think that giving zombies guns was a good idea? What makes them zombies 
 in that case? This game doesn't feel like a zombie game at all. All Capcom would have to do is 
 replace the character models and boom, you're fighting African Rebels. Don't like that? Change 
 the character models again, and you're fighting terrorists in Africa. This could be any cookie 
 cutter game with cookie cutter enemies you wanted if Capcom didn't tell you that they were actually 
 zombies.
  
  Then there's the plot. It sucks, it's convoluted and pretty boring. The dialog is awful and the 
 voice acting make it even harder to listen to. The locations are mostly bland. There are some interesting 
 locals like the African village, but most of areas you'll visit you've seen in other games, and 
 in other Resident Evil games. There's the evil lab, the spooky cargo ship and others that all kinda 
 blend together as uninspired filler.
  
  Then there's the fact that RE5 is no longer even a survival horror game, it's a shooter. You no 
 longer have to conserve ammo, at all, because every 3rd or 4th zombie you kill will drop some and 
 the only feeling of impending doom is the idea that you still have another 7 hours to go at the 
 half way mark of these controls that have already driven you completely bonkers.
  
  Then you have your inventory, which is pretty much nonexistent. Each player gets 9 spaces to put 
 stuff. The inventory come up in real time, while the combat is still going on, making switching 
 weapons and trading guns and ammo frustrating and possibly resulting in death. You also can't give 
 someone a portion of your ammo, it's all or nothing so if someone runs out of pistol ammo you'll 
 need to kill a horde of zombies by yourself so that your friend can replenish his ammo and get 
 back into the game. The entire inventory system seems like a tacked on afterthought. Basically 
 this entire game seems like it was tested by people who have never played a proper shooter or a 
 proper survival horror game in their lives, and therefore doesn't live up to either expectation. 
 Capcom needs to streamline the controls and then make the AI smarter, make the enemies be able 
 to take more damage and make them slightly faster. They should also make ammo and health drops 
 less frequent and take the guns away from the zombies. this would make the game easier to learn 
 while keeping the gameplay tense and scary (but this way it'll be tense and scary for the right 
 reasons) .
  
  Basically if you want to punish yourself or if you have a friend who is willing to play through 
 the entire game with you, then you should go ahead and buy this game. If you just want to find 
 out what happens next in the Resident Evil story line I suggest renting the game, or just watching 
 all of the cut scenes on youtube. Unless you are a hardcore RE fan and you can't imagine playing 
 the game with any other controls then you won't like this game. Not that this game is horrible 
 by any standards, and it gets kinda fun if you are playing splitscreen with a friend who knows 
 what he is doing. The problem is that it's nearly impossible to get through the entire game playing 
 only with a friend, unless you live together. Also if you want to get some replay value, you won't 
 find it here.
  
  *Also, for anyone interested, this game is not racist, I've been to Africa, and this is basically 
 what it looks like (not the African village level, but the shanty town and the African city) , and 
 you know what's in Africa? That's right, you guessed it, black people! There's no other way that 
 Capcom could have had a RE game based in Africa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ez054098
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I should probably write this review after I finish the game, but I have such a good feeling about 
 this game I had to write it now. When I first played the demo I HATED IT! It just didn't feel right. 
 I had been playing Gears of War 2 non-stop and maybe I wanted it to be Gears of War 2. I was totally 
 frustrated Capcom didn't allow you to move and shoot in this iteration. Well, one chapter into 
 the game and I forgot all about moving and shooting (until RE6 of course) . I love the story, love 
 the characters, love the item gathering and love the action. 
  
  I know there was some controversy about Africa being the setting, but my thoughts are everyone 
 is zombie material. If all men/women are truly equal, then all men/women can become zombies. Hopefully, 
 that last sentence didn't give you the dumb chills. 
  
  What I would like to see in RE6? Shooting and moving. I know the reason you can't is because it 
 build terror, but you can accomplish the same thing while being able to move. Look at Dead Space. 
 Another survival horror game, but has updated controls which don't diminish the experience. I would 
 also like to see a smarter AI partner who doesn't waste so many bullets.
  
  Pick this game up. It is a winner.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxtrot561
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I don't mean to sound like a little kid on Christmas, but it's finally here! OMGZ! This is probably 
 the best game i've played to this date. Here's why.
  
  
  Gameplay: It's all that you expect from the revolutionary Resident Evil 4 gameplay. Although it's 
 not much different, there is the addition of a cover system for certain parts. The controls are 
 tight, responsive, and very well made. And of course, the co-op system. The co-op is fun and doesn't 
 take away the intensity of being chased my numerous Majini and a chainsaw majini at the same time! 
 The gameplay is Triple-A, and I love it!
  
  Graphics: These are some of the best graphics to date. Everything is clear and there's no texture 
 pop-up.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are great, wether it be the sound of a bullet busting a Majini's head 
 off, or the sound of screams in the background as people are beaten to death. The sound is awesome.
 
  
  Story: The game starts off in a cinematic showing a, well it's hard to say without ruining it, 
 but a woman infecting a man with the virus you will come to know as Uroborus. Then it shows Chris 
 Redfield meeting up with Sheva Alomar in the town of Kijuju. I'm not saying anymore, but it's a 
 great addition to the Resident Evil franchise.
  
  This is the best game i've played in years, this is a perfect 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: criticfromhell
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok, that wasn't entirely accurately. Its also the sluggish controls, broad daylight, enemies who 
 only achieve intimidating but not scary, and (almost) complete abandonment of the Resident Evil 
 franchise. The co-op was just the nail in the coffin.
  
  The game had a lot of things going for it. Graphics wise, this is astonishing, up there with Killzone 
 2. It also contains a lot of things RE fans would kill for, such as a fight with Wesker (woot) 
 the origin of the T and G-Virus, and so on so forth. But then, it dies. Your foes are supposed 
 to be injected with the T-Virus, but any RE vet knows thats crap.
  
  The controls are identical to RE4, and thats a problem. When it came out, RE4's controls were great. 
 They were easy to work with and felt good. But a generation has passed, and better games with better 
 contols have come and gone, and Capcom has done nothing to address this. And enemies don't accommodate 
 the slow control style. Some enemies are too fast to shoot, and in the end, but average game standards, 
 they aren't even that fast.
  
  Finally, the co-op. You wanna know how to kill a horror game all about isolation, with monsters 
 everywhere? Throw an AI partner in. Even better? Make her incompetent and need to rescued every 
 five seconds. Also, don't give her life -- give her the most age old, basic dialogue ever and have 
 her say it over and over and over and over...
  
  Honestly, I wasn't happy about this game. Not at all. I was upset about how much of a deviation 
 from the franchise this was. But I got my hopes up, convinced myself it wouldn't be as bad as it 
 turned out.
  
  If you don't understand, think of it this way -- would you play Gears of War 3 if they gave it sluggish 
 controls, terrible partner AI, and had him fighting regular humans instead of locust, with no real 
 indication that 1 and 2 ever happened? Yeah, I thought so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miamiman0690
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Very Briefly I will sum up the goods and the bads about this game...
  
  GOOD:
  
  -Amazing Graphics
  -Great Weapons
  -Fun interaction with vehicles
  -Fluid environment
  
 -Inventive boss battles
  -Good story
  -Co-op is simply excellent
  
  
  BAD:
  
  -Pain in the @ss to set up a co-op game
  -Can't combine gems with other treasures as you could 
 in RE4
  -Save Game system has become more standardized, with checkpoints rather than typewriters
  -Too 
 much ammo
  -Not as scary as other RE games, mostly due to having a partner
  
  
  SUMMARY: 
  
  In conclusion, this game is simply great if you have someone to play it with and 
 if you like to shoot parasitically controlled organisms. The whole game is a fresh twist on RE4 
 with many new features and a continuing story line. It is a pain to try and set up an online game 
 with a friend, because of the poor interface. Some parts are really hard with just villagers, where 
 as the bosses can be a bit on the easy side, yet still inventive. GREAT GAME OVERALL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingpin9472
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil is one of my all time favorite games, I have been a fan since its inception, and 
 I didn't like the aiming then and still do not! I can't totally hate on the game it still has that 
 special something which is GRAPHIC VIOLENCE and LOTS OF BLOOD, and the story flow is tight. The 
 game takes on new life in R5 and you feel like you are in the game, the enemies are kinda smart 
 but lets not lose sight of the fact that they are zombies after all so they get a free pass. I 
 like the idea of upgrading weapons and buying new ones it works well, I also like the fact you 
 can swap weapons with your partner, it's like having a caddie to carry your clubs, in this case 
 clubs being weapons!!. At the end of the day I would say this is a definte to add to your collection 
 just have an open mind when playing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tandem_Toad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. The game is great. I wouldn't have given it an 8.5 if I didn't think so. However, 
 there is something missing from the series. The old RE (before RE4) had a real element of investigation, 
 which was the essence of the game. They seemed to have lost that in these later iterations. Most 
 of the investigative portions are done through cut scences now, which takes away from the experience. 
 I enjoy the new control schemes, though. It makes the game more player friendly. However, it seemed 
 to have changed the focus of the game. They seemed to have focused more on a shooter style of gameplay. 
 Also, the game isn't as scary as they used to be. I used to shake when I played the game. There's 
 a definite anxiety to the game, but the apprehension of the earlier versions was astounding. Also, 
 I wish that Mercenaries didn't have a time limit and let you kill until you or a certain quota 
 was reached. I hate time limits. Plus, it would be nice to bring in all of the upgraded weapons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetbackhair
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 has the same type of gameplay that Resident Evil 4 has but some new additions to 
 it. 
  
  For this game you can play as either Chris Redfield, or his new partner Sheva Alomar in fighting 
 for survival in Africa. You have to play the game to know about the story about it I don't feel 
 like explaining it but I will tell you whats great about this game. 
  
  Whats different about Resident Evil 5 is there is now Co-op even though in 4 its pretty much Leon 
 and Ashley was a sitting duck. But now you and a friend can play together and beat the game. The 
 aim and shoot are the same as 4 and also if you shoot them in the head you can attack them like 
 in 4 also. You and your partner can heal each other and also give each other ammo, or herbs but 
 what really is dumb is that you cannot give your partner a gun (this is only in Xbox Live Co-op) . 
 The graphics on this game are amazing, but I don't have a HDTV, so I can't experience the high 
 definition graphics on this game. And there is alot more stuff to do and collect during the game 
 that you Resident Evil fans will love.
  
  I definitely recommend this game to those Resident Evil fans or those who wanna try this game out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DL_Padron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  The entirety of this game can be summed up in one word: AMAZING!!! I will elaborate in as many 
 words as possible though. Now, where do I begin... 
  
  Graphics: 10
  Resident Evil 5 has some of the best graphics we have seen. As most of us already know; Capcom 
 has put a lot of effort in making feel like we are in the fear, and the graphics most certainly 
 places us in the middle of all of it. If you can shoot off an enemies head and watch the blood 
 spill all over his shirt then you know that you're playing a game with detail, and detail is what 
 is pushing today's gaming. 
  
  Sound: 10
  The music, the sound effects, and the voice acting. The music is an important factor in the struggle 
 for survival and RE5 really nails it. While you're running around trying to find more bullets; 
 the music is thumping in the background making you think "I may not survive this!" Now the sound 
 effects are definitely on par with the music. While slicing through the meat of another human being 
 you can hear the blood and meat coming off of their body. Simply amazing. Some points you may feel 
 as if you were really in the mist of it all with the amazing voice acting. 
  
  Gameplay: 10
  The gameplay will help place you in the grind. Understand, this is not the run 
 and gun you would see in such titles like "Halo" and "Gears of War", but the the gameplay was obviously 
 not intended to be like such titles. Granted, the shooting can be a bit "stiff", but this is what 
 places you in the fear the commercials advertise. 
  
  Story: 9
  As of all RE games in the series; the story is as compelling as ever. However, it isn't really 
 anything that hasn't been done before though. You will enjoy the story regardless whether you are 
 watching or playing through the game yourself.
  
  Value: 10
  RE5 is one of those game you should own. There isn't much to dislike about this game, regardless 
 of what type of gamer you are. Even after completion the game still gives you more to do. Whether 
 it be going for the high score in each chapter or just challenging yourself to a harder difficulty. 
 This has a little something for everybody interested in the genre. 
  
  Resident Evil 5 is, hands down, a must have for gamers on both the PS3 and X360 communities alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jovipimp
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  This game doesnt try to be RE4... but it does a really good job at being RE5... This is a really 
 good RE game.. going for the fact that its the first on the next generation (other than RE4 on Wii) . 
 The story is done really well, the voice acting is great and so are the characters.. the game isnt 
 easy for the first time through so people who arent good at games seem to give up after dieing 
 so quick... Even after the game is beatin you can play the game forever, the multiplayer also makes 
 it more fun and challenging.. the AI seems to be a good partner other than shooting all the time 
 and using up alot of bullets.. I havent seen the multiplayer system for the versus yet but i bet 
 if its as good as the game it will be a great add on to the game as well.... Best game ive played 
 for the 360 so far.. love it, might never stop playing it.. nothin really bad about it.. definite 
 buy if your a hardcore gaming and you are good at games.. Cant wait for RE6 already!!! haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrDirkDiggler
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  After playing and beating RE5 it felt like the biggest waste of money I have ever spent. Sure it's 
 an action pacted game with great graphics and game play but what happened to the old resident evil 
 feeling? I never played RE4 but what happened to The RE where you were on the edge of your seat 
 waiting for that zombie to pop out around the corner to suck out your brains. Now it just seems 
 like these zombies are just.... insane humans with genetic mutations. I mean come on, zombies with 
 guns, really. I want to be surprised and scared not to say oh look there's some zombies trying 
 to ambush me with AK-47's.
  
  Here's my review of the enemies:
  
  Zombies - Joke
  Monsters - Less of a joke
  Bosses - Lesser of a joke
  
  I think it's time Capcom brought 
 back the good old RE feeling. Enough of this zombie with weapons BS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunterX241
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  That's right, Las Plagas from Resident Evil 4 has affected Africa with it. It's ur job to find 
 who started it.
  
  Anyway, this game rocks, the graphic is just amazing and the co-op is just plain fun when comes 
 to offline. It just got little bit change from Resident Evil 4 and the story line is alright for 
 me. Plus there's new thing on it that makes the game fun and the bosses are just fun to fight them.
 
  
  The Bad thing that i don't like is that u only carry up to 9 items with u and ur can't buy anything 
 ir u beat one a area. And u and ur partner used so much of ammo.
  
  The other thing too is that it is the first time in this series has co-op (for me) . U have to work 
 together to survive from the infection of the Las Plagas.
  
  Well that all i could says but i know that this game maybe get "game of the year" xD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realnamesnogimi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  This is a great game for anyone who loves action games, great graphics and fun co-op play. With 
 that I'll get this out of the way now, joining an on-line game is annoying. You either have to 
 wait for the game you are joining to reach a checkpoint or to restart the chapter before you can 
 join. Once in the game, the on-line co-op is pretty smooth. I encountered a little lag here and 
 there but nothing to be overly concerned with. Other than the on-line problem I really only have 
 one more complaint, and that is the lack of maneuverability. Since RE 5 steered away from the survival 
 horror and moved more torward an action game the controles seem a bit cumbersome. Not being able 
 to move while you aim feels like it is a flaw in the game. Even turning 90 degrees feels a bit 
 stiff. All of this can be overlooked out of sheer fun of the game. Enemies are plentiful and the 
 boss battles are similar to RE 4. The replay value is that of RE 4 too. Once you beat it you can't 
 help but buy the extras and try and beat not only your times but other peoples online. Overall 
 a great game and the most important thing of any game, it is fun to play though the first tme and 
 many more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedrinho666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is a game that completely revolutionized the Resident evil series a fresh new story 
 fresh new gameplay and online multiplayer what else doyou want sure a vs. mode will be coming ou 
 soon and that will be amazing the graphics are amazing just like capcom usually does it, the game 
 controls are a new experience the system is quite like RE4 but with every thing updated the weapons 
 are great the characters a awesome an the plotting of the story just continues the series and its 
 a game youll never forget sure Resident Evil 1, 2 and other classics are the real deal but this 
 is just a masterpice now the multiplayer is awesome and the online co op is great and the way that 
 you have to help your partner makes the game outstanding communication is key in the game and helping 
 your partner out aswell. This a must have for the fans of the series, let me tell you I satrted 
 playing RE 4which was the game that made me like the series and this games brings back the memories. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaudiFury
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  It's been a while but the wait has definitely been worth it. Resident Evil 5 is a roller coaster 
 ride, with all the thrills and chills. Plus its a ride you can ride again, meaning it doesn't get 
 old after one play through. 
  
  Took me about 9 hours on normal difficulty, will play it again on the veteran difficulty. 
  
 
  The visuals on the 360 rival that of some of the PS3 exclusives - i dare say so myself - all of 
 this proves that hardware isn't everything, its production values that matter. Capcom has done 
 an amazing fantastic job with their graphics. 
  
  The other thing i must say, Capcom did a great job with the AI on Sheva, it was very rare for when 
 she got herself killed or was not being helpful. Capcom did a great job, programming the AI to 
 take orders, and to know what to do based on the section of the level you were in. 
  
  Only negatives i can say is it can sometimes be hard to aim the gun, but after some practice you 
 get to shooting with some relative ease. Only other issue is having to stop to fire, there doesn't 
 seem to be a good way to run and gun. 
  
  definite a get-to-own game in my book, and i highly recommend it to all 360 and PS3 users out there. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaya-d
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  
  the game is set in Africa ,you play as Chris or Shiva and you try to help each other out through 
 the game , (collecting money , cover each others back etc.)
  like many resident evil games you fight zombies but not any zombies they actually call each other 
 when they see you ,they climb and many other stuff and they are the same zombies in RE4
  you also can upgrade guns that you have ,
  this game is all about action ,not horror , it's pretty 
 much the same as RE4 but a little bit different, the partner game play is the new feature in the 
 game ,i gotta say it's the funnest thing in it wither you're playing online or offline. 
  the boss battles are really smilier to each other ,easy to play .
  what i didn't like about it 
 is the shop , the one in RE4 is better, and the'puzzles' are no brainier, the AASB emblems are hard 
 to find ,and it's too short, and too easy.
  it seems that they only improved the visual designs, the oher stuff are the same things in RE4.
 
  
  i noticed that the xbox 360 version has better visual than the PS3.
  if you liked RE4 you should get RE5.
  
  but 4 is better and funner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAY9096
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:18 am PT
Review:  I'm big fan of RE and i played all parts of this game but about RE5 i have some remarks:
  
  1- It's Very good game but there's no big different between it and RE4 only better graphics.
 
  
  2- Too short unlike Re4 it was too long and amazing.
  
  3- The Partner in this part "Sheva" some times she dose not give the main player a chance to enjoy 
 the fighting she's curious.
  
  4- The enemies are same as those in RE4 i would like to fight the scary zombies again.
  
  5- 
 There in no big space to carry the guns and other stuff.
  
  6- We need to see more riddles like those in the first part of RE.
  
  Also what about adding 
 more languages to the subtitle option like "Arabic Language" that will help all players with different 
 languages to enjoy the game.
  
  I hope to make some changes in RE6 .
  
  thankxxxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbrandowen
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 1:14 am PT
Review:  The biohazard threat has not ended: Just when it seemed that the menace of Resident Evil had been 
 destroyed, along comes a new terror to send shivers down players' spines. 
  
  Chris Redfield, returning Resident Evil hero, has followed the path of the evil literally around 
 the globe. After joining a new organization, Chris heads to Africa where the latest bioterrorism 
 threat is literally transforming the people and animals of the city into mindless, maddened creatures.
 
  
  He is joined by a new partner, Sheva Alomar, who lends her strength, intelligence and sharp-shooting 
 skills to the mission. In order to survive, Chris and Sheva must work together to take on the challenges 
 of discovering the truth behind this evil plot. 
  
  Utilizing a revolutionary new 2-player co-op mode of gameplay, players assume control of either 
 Chris or Sheva and experience Resident Evil in new ways. In Resident Evil 5, Capcom has players 
 fearing the daylight as much as they have feared shadow in previous games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vividnightmare
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:31 pm PT
Review:  So if you're like me then you are a big Resident Evil fan, since the first one you've been a addict. 
 I've played RE on PS1, PS2, Gamecube, Dreamcast, Wii and Now the 360. The story just drives me 
 and who doesn't love evil giant corporations and zombies right? After some years the series got 
 stagnant though and with a breath of freshness to it Capcom released the amazing Resident Evil 
 4, but where RE4 made great changes, it seems RE5 actually takes a step back. Where new ideas come 
 in things feel half cared about or completely abandoned at some point or another. Don't get me 
 wrong it's a fun ride, but hard core fans of the series may find the mechanics frustrating and 
 new comes it uninteresting. 
  
  Graphics - 9.0 - Just like the Final Fantasy series Resident Evil has always been about trying 
 to push the graphics bar in some way shape or form and RE5 does just that. While not quite up to 
 par with Gears of War 2 or Crysis it does have astonishing detail and environments that feel loved 
 more than just pushed off an assembly line. Characters are well detailed and the gore that has 
 made Resident Evil so dear to our hearts over the years is back in full form. Overall, especially 
 in HD this is a visual treat. 
  
  Mechanics - 6.5 - Here sadly, is the games biggest short coming. Where RE4 made innovation into 
 a new format, RE5 manages to down grade. RE4 boosted player agility greatly, improved camera work 
 dramatically and boosted aiming quality drastically. Yet RE5 for some reason decided to go backwards, The 
 camera hasn't taken any sort of hit in quality luckily though it isn't as polished as RE4 as sometimes 
 the camera tends to twisted wildly when grabbed by an enemy. While it's distorting it's really 
 not as bad as one might think, aiming is also some how not up to par with RE4. While it doesn't 
 look any different it seems recoil is calculated much more intensely than before making weapon 
 accuracy almost none past about 15 feet and unlike RE4 the dot of your weapons laser sight doesn't 
 get big and bright when pointed onto an enemy at a distance so long shots with the pistol and such 
 take much more mastery than before. While these two issues combined are actually rather small it 
 is the characters extreme clunky and slow movements that truly bring this title down in quality. 
 While you don't move all that different from Resident Evil 4 the enemies sure do, much faster, 
 more agile and more mobile you really feel out classed sometimes by even the most basic enemies. 
 An ability to jump back would have been nice, but more than anything an ability to walk forward, 
 backward and side step left and right while aiming would have been genius. Too many times do enemies 
 hide right around corners taking advantage of your poor agility. As the game progresses this annoyance 
 of poor agility and slow movement is compounded into a gaping infected wound as larger groups of 
 more agile enemies (mainly dogs) become all but impossible to defeat without taking some damage. 
 Finally the nail in the mechanics coffin for Resident Evil 5 is your near mentally challenged AI, 
 now and days gaming companies have decided to make one of two choices, making very smart reliant 
 AI which takes hard work and coding or take the easy way out and make the players AI team mate 
 near invincible and/or not a game over offense if he/she dies. Capcom though saw fight to ignore 
 both of these ideas and decide just for giggle to give you a team mate with the IQ of a soap dish 
 and make it a instant game over if they get themselves killed. While a team mate is supposed to 
 feel like an asset Sheva does little more than feel like a overly friendly dog used to carry gear. 
 Throwing ammo out like it's going out of style with no regard for accuracy, watching her 'gunfight' 
 is more like watching the famous lobby scene from the Matrix except without the cool moves. Add 
 to that she has no fear or brain around Chainsaw wielding maniacs prepare to press the continue 
 button a lot when you get to these parts. Instead of feeling like I have a team mate I feel like 
 I'm trying to get a dog to follow me through the levels, calling her every half second to get her 
 to move away from the psycho with a chainsaw or axe. 
  
  
  Story - 8.0 - While the story isn't quite as interesting as you would hope especially after RE4 
 which while was kind of sterile for some reason kept my attention completely. Things are certainly 
 starting to mix well. While RE5 is certainly not the best in the series it seems things may be 
 mounting to give RE6 a good chance. 
  
  Online - 9.0 - Ahh, yes the saving grace to many of the games poor mechanics. Unlike Left 4 Dead, 
 with RE5 replacing the computer controlled AI team mate is a massive help. Not to mention massive 
 fun. While having a team mate erases all fear factor from the Resident Evil series how many of 
 you RE Elites can say you never wanted to go through the Raccoon Police Department with a friend? 
 While the slow clunky mechanics will still frustrate you, for some reason being able to play Resident 
 Evil with a friend just makes you not care about most of the problems. Note though, most. While 
 single player holds the lions share of issues in this game, online sadly isn't without it's own 
 over sights. Mainly, the in ability to switch guns with a team mate online. While offline in single 
 player you can switch weapons freely, it seems Capcom didn't think coop teams would have any interest 
 in this ability. Past this angering and puzzling issue though everything else is a blast. While 
 the current trend of coop games like Halo 3, Gears of War and Left 4 Dead are great fun it was 
 nice to get a change of pace from pouring ammo into massive hordes of enemies to a more dramatic 
 and more intense setting. Having to conserve and split ammo between you and a friend adds a element 
 to game play that makes you feel more like a team.
  
  Over all - 8.0 - Hey, it's not bad it's just not the best. It's obvious that Capcom has learned 
 some good lessons from the Resident Evil branch off "Outbreak" and have improved a lot of concepts 
 from that series. Still while trying to blend Outbreaks good ideas with the normal series already 
 great mechanics and ideas it seems something just got lost in translation. It comes down to this, 
 either totally over haul a series and fully evolve from one game to the next or don't even try 
 and just try to improve upon what's already good. Sadly though RE5 is neither a full evolution 
 nor is it everything good updated to great. It tries to achieve this half way point but tends to 
 do most everything ok or poorly. Upgrading the enemies speed and agility means the players has 
 to keep up, sadly though this completely escaped the developers. Sometimes you feel as if you're 
 character is turning to stone before your very eyes as enemies rapidly converge and surround you. 
 Still below a laundry list of faults and over looked "Should have done" things, a great online 
 element plus the still fun core RE game play means it's a good title to play. A buy for fans, a 
 solid rent to buy for Gamers and a solid rent for casual gamers. Just prepare to wish you could 
 kill Sheva yourself without the game knowing so you could just go on solo. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielnault333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Actually i'm very impress by the work they did on resedient evil 5, the graphic are perfect, the 
 game have great action witch is a little scary, more stressful.
  the online co-op multiplayer is awesome, the story is prety good as well.
  
  i like playing 
 res 5, cause you can upgrade yours weapons witch can became very destructible for the infects monsters 
 or zombies !! there's fews surprises in the game to scare the **** out of you !! so its nice when 
 you full equip of armor !! know what i mean !!
  
  there less puzzles, more violent actions, a lot of weapons & armor, a lot of hudge mutan creatures 
 and zombies !
  
  i was happy to see many lakers, cause there's none is resident evil 4, the zombie look's stronger 
 and smarter than ever so carreful with !!! i'm sure you'll like this game, and i think its gonna 
 be the game of the year !! i'll give 9.5/10 enjoy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTR_FX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Very few video game series that have established themselves in the industry like The Resident Evil 
 series. Capcom has continued the franchise since it was born on the original Playstation in 1996.
 
  And for good reason, has become ever popular, with fans wanting more and more.
  
  
  Well Capcom has done it again. While RE5 doesn't revolutionize the series like RE4, it doesn't 
 necessary need to. Its that good.
  
  Gameplay- 
  RE5 plays similar to its predecessor, however CO OP is massive new addition. Right from the get 
 go you are always backed up by your partner, the lovely Sheva Alomar. You can swap and give each 
 other items. Provide aid or assistance when things get hairy, and help each other reach places 
 that would be impossible to get to alone. All this translates into is a game that is beautifully 
 centered around CO OP. On xbox Live or PSN players can seamlessly jump in and out of CO OP. Its 
 up to you if you want to invite a friend or let any who wants to play join your game. But you don't 
 have to play online, going through the game with A. I. isn't as fun as with a friend, but is more 
 than adequate. The ability to strafe is new upgrade, RE5 almost feels like a shooter. However you 
 can't move and shoot, RE5 sticks to its survival horror roots. Run and gun isn't necessary, but 
 I do think you should be able to slowly walk and move at the same time. Not being able to move 
 and shoot will in no way ruin the experience, it would be nice to have, its just not crucial to 
 the gameplay. Movement might seem a little sluggish at first, I know I did, but that problem was 
 easily solved by turning up the sensitivity. The enemies are mostly crazy infected villagers, and 
 other sorts of infected animals and monsters. 
  
  The quick time events are back, and now have been implemented into the game very well. QTEs let 
 you execute attacks that can only be performed when an enemy is stunned, which is usually a flashy 
 melee move, other times you must quickly execute QTEs in order to evade enemy or boss attacks. 
 
  Boss battles are easily the best in series, there is so much variety to them, and the games design 
 is ingenious in how you have to defeat them.
  
  Graphics - 
  There are 3 games that have truly impressed me on a visual level this generation. Gears of War, 
 Killzone 2, and Resident Evil 5. No other console game has character models that even come close 
 to RE5's, explosions are beautifully rendered, particle effects make it the game come alive. Every 
 place in the game world is textured well, and has its own unique atmosphere. It truly feels like 
 your in Africa. Character's facial and body animation are incredibly fluid and life like. Enemies 
 look fantastic as well. However enemy animation is a mixed bag, enemies will act and behave similarly, 
 it will start to look repetitive after a while.
  Over all this is a very exceptionally looking game.
  
  Audio - The audio is another place where 
 the game excels at. The series always done a great job implementing sound. Almost every movement 
 makes a sound, weapons are pleasing to the ears, and the musical score fits the game perfectly. 
 Voice acting is also very well done. 
  
  RE5 isn't really a horror game. RE5 is a "Thriller". There have been many times where I've jumped, 
 or felt an uncomfortable tension, but never a true sense of fear or horror. 
  
  RE5 is a must play, if you are a gamer looking for a looking for an outstanding experience to enjoy 
 with a friend, RE5 would be a no finer example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kataloni10
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  A Great additionally for the Resident Evil Serie ,,,, all in the game is perfect .. to bad that 
 is not so much horror like the other resident evil .. but still great game 
  
  Graphics 10/10 ----Superb graphics.
  
  Story 10/10 ----The story really kept you wanting to play 
 because of the suspense.
  
  Gameplay 10/10 ----Fantastic controls and excellent setting.
  
  Sound 10/10 ----Couldn't have been better and contributed alot to the suspense.
  
  Overall 
 it is fun, but getting swarmed by tons of enemies with limited ammo. The gameplay is just like RE4 
 but not as thrilling, the boss battles are some epic and exciting pieces, but yet again, not as 
 good as RE4.
  
  
  it was worth the money..... :D strongly recommend you play this game. With a total of 70 achievement 
 points, this game will keep you playing for weeks to even months. Good gaming friends! i hop better 
 resident evil the next time,,, better horror and mor puzzle :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkeley0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  How do I begin, Resident Evil 4 was a gaming gem, a tour de force, and a revolutionary masterpiece. 
 Resident Evil 4 was a powerful game, that has held so much high regard around the world. 4 years 
 later the franchise that has held so much popularity because of its pukka style in story telling 
 and survival horror, has returned. The franchise returns with what seems like an apotheosis of 
 an ending as it strikes the heights of Metal Gear Solid 4, in epic apocalyptic story telling. Is 
 that a good thing, yes and no Resident Evil 5 veers away from Resident Evil 4 to become something 
 more action oriented and stellar in style and heights.
  
  The Story of Resident Evil 5 sets in Africa where it is believed the Virus that carries no panacea 
 within, has spread even further and that of course somehow Umbrella Corp. is involved. The beginnings 
 of the Virus are said to have started in this African country, called Kijuju. The incidents take 
 place 10 years after the outbreak of the Virus and for fans of the story, the game offers an intense 
 roller coaster ride that will answer many questions yet send you confused with more questions to 
 answer. Its over the top action approach is great, even though the story can seem quite ridiculous 
 with all the twist and turns that happen. The characters seem driven, but they seem too cool, to 
 actually possess emotions, that make them seem like their more than just characters involved in 
 this over the top B movie.
  
  The new setting takes Resident Evil where its never gone before, Africa and it does a wonderful 
 job at trying to scare you with it, but sadly its not enough and the atmosphere is more action, 
 and this is where the problem comes in, its less horror like. It seems that Resident decided to 
 try something new, but for fans of the series they might not be so appreciative of this. Its epic 
 in scale of magnitude with less scares and some thrills. So for anyone who has ever played a Resident 
 Evil game, this is perhaps the biggest annoyance, as it is a survival horror, isn't it. Its simply 
 too sunny to look like a dark noir horror game.
  
  However, Resident Evil 5's visuals are impressive for a multiplatform game, and you can tell that 
 its more color involved with the hot scorching sun, obvious signs of the heat and bright colors 
 that loom the game. Its beautiful to look at, and the game is certainly the best looking RE game 
 yet. The game has a large amount of detail put into it and at least we know that it was polished 
 enough to have an great rating visually.
  
  Orchestral sounds are done just with the right amount of pound to them, making it seem like a well 
 done action orchestra that keeps the game moving forward. For the first time ever, Resident Evil 
 5 has its own soundtrack and that's good to know that its trying to include the whole package together. 
 And so, it keeps its eggs in a basket well enough to make the soundtrack a hit.
  
  The game play of RE5 is similar to Resident Evil 4 with melee attacks easier to deal. However the 
 knife has no use to it anymore, which is also disappointing as it was used to conserve ammo, but 
 it seems Chris can melee with every gun shot aimed at the foe. You don't need to be precise at 
 shooting because your guaranteed a melee without even trying, really. The melee is enjoyable, but 
 the game seems easier because of it. Its also very strange that the game would include a cover 
 system in the second half of the game, (does this remind you of anything) enemies that wield weapons 
 and shoot at you, yet they still try to instill horrors that just aren't there for the right reason's, 
 by keeping the "same stand and shoot" game play. It simply just doesn't fit this Gears of War type 
 style that their going for, when you cling on to awkward controls, in order to cling to the past 
 of uniqueness. If Capcom would of delivered a survival horror I would have not minded the controls, 
 but given the circumstances, its just preposterous to include the same system when everything else 
 has been changed. As we all know RE5 has implemented co-op, because this generation of gaming is 
 more co-op and multiplayer based, and many want to get in where the money is rolling. Capcom has 
 added this new feature which is fun, but honestly it feels like Gears of War and Geow seems much 
 more faster and natural; its controls are the only thing that keep these two apart. No matter who 
 you are you will wonder, why RE5 took such weird steps to evolve, while still trying to stick to 
 the past, with its unique game play style that's stuck in an action game. Something that may ruin 
 it for some fans is that playing RE5 by yourself is not even close to as enjoyable as it is playing 
 with a friend. Playing with someone you know is preferable because there is a lot of team communication 
 based game play that requires cooperation from both Chris and Sheva.
  
  Playing by yourself will result in you having to do double the work as Sheva is a good AI, but 
 we've never had the perfect AI. She will lose her bullets and you'll need to give her bullets, 
 because if she dies, the mission is failed, yep. This makes it somewhat annoying having to give 
 your hard earned ammo to a computer who will waste them quicker than you can say Roger! She will 
 miss bullets, but still is a minor help and the best AI in a game, because no game has featured 
 as smart AI as Sheva is. Like I said this is an A+ and an A- because no AI can replace a human. 
 So you can play it single player, but the essence of RE5 as a single player is as enjoyable as 
 playing Call of Duty 4's campaign, which is not a good thing.
  
  Co-op on the other hand is what makes the game shine at it best peak. It fun, rewarding, hard, 
 and it delivers. With a great partner the co-op is easily enjoyed. Weather its covering your partner, 
 providing assistance in a puzzle, you'll always need each other. But, the co-op includes puzzles 
 that can be as boring as holding a flash light for the other player, yeah not the best experience 
 you'll have holding a flash light. Essentially the co-op is solid and you might what to go at it 
 again to collect more weapons and play it on a harder mode.
  
  A new menu system is introduced in where the player's screen wont stop when combining and switching 
 items, because its on the go now, in real time, its good because it makes close encounters more 
 intense, but can get a little annoying and getting used to. You can also trade items with your 
 partner and give them to the other person. Bullets, health, and everything can be traded like this. 
 Its nice that its not very hard to use and its pretty simple. Similar to Deadspace, which some 
 will like and others will want the menu system back from RE4. The only problem is when your in 
 the middle of a boss fight trying to give each other ammo, not the best situation if your also 
 up against the Menu system.
  
  RE5 includes many bosses and they are all given certain new details. Famously El Gigante returns 
 with a new dew and giant crocodiles return. Bosses however seemed to have dumbed down as in one 
 scene against a Sea Monster... wait.... wait.... you use a turret to kill the monster. This annoying 
 turret is further used on an El Gigante in the middle of the game. Why the El Gigante doesn't just 
 stomp across you is beyond me, and it just seems like the memorable boss battles from Resident 
 Evil 4 aren't found anywhere here.
  
  Resident Evil 5 is a wonderful game that took many efforts to make, however after you played Resident 
 Evil 4, more was initially expected, which explains my tone throughout this review. If you forget 
 about RE4, and think of RE5 as its own, it's a great game, but nothing we haven't seen before. 
 Its horrible cover system, easy boss battles, and short play through time are easily noticeable 
 in this sequel. For the fans this game might deliver or again it might not, since its not really 
 a survival horror game. Its an intense ride that feels like it should of stayed true to itself 
 instead of changing so much to keep up with games this gen. Resident Evil is still one of the best 
 franchise's ever, its just that coming in from a game so good, RE5 is just a fun game that doesn't 
 do much to innovate and or expand upon its predecessor. With big production values, great graphics 
 and an OK narrative, Resident Evil 5 is still a game that should most certainly be added on to 
 a fans collection, or for anyone not familiar, its either a buy or rent. I certainly thought I 
 would have spent much more time on it, instead I busted in Resident Evil 4 and had a much better 
 time.
  
  Production values: 9
  Sound: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Game play: 7.5
  Replay value: 7.5
  Overall Score: 7.5/10 or C+ (Not An Average)
  
  Verdict: A must buy for 
 anyone hardcore to the series. If you are not too familiar its worth renting or buying depending 
 on how much you enjoyed the demo. Its like Gears of War which is a bad thing, because it pales 
 in comparison, as the third person shooter has already been perfected, by Gears of War. It technically 
 is not a Resident Evil game because its more action oriented. However you'll have fun playing co-op 
 if you come in open minded knowing that its not the best thing ever to come out, its just a good 
 above average game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is amazing. I will tell you right now if you have played all the Resident Evil games 
 that you should go buy this right now! Like, don't even read the rest of this and go buy it. Anyway, 
 this game is visually, and everything amazing. The graphics are far the best I have seen in a long 
 time. The zombies will run right after you stop for a few secs so you can get a view good shots 
 in. I would have to say, I have heard that the game is around 20 hours long. Which for a shooter 
 is amazing. Co op! Whew, co op is amazing if you are doing it with a friend. Now, I am not saying 
 co op with a friend is something you have to do either. Playing with the AI is just as good. I 
 personally like doing both. Only thing you have to do when you have the AI with you is control 
 their inventory. But, is that gonna cause you a lot of head ach? No. The controls will take a tiny 
 bit to get use to, but its not something where your gonna scream because you die a lot. Best thing 
 you can do is run, stop, and shoot. It's really not that bad. The concept is good and stays well 
 with the series. Yea, if you ran and shot at the same time the game would probably be a very easy 
 game. 
  
  Either way this game is awesome so go buy it. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is great it has some greatness it reminds me some of Resident Evil 4. It is a great game 
 its not quite as scary as Resident Evil 4 but it is still a really good horror survival game. It 
 starts in a village in Africa where your teams objective is for you (Chris Redfield) And Sheva 
 to get this guy named Irving, but things go wrong and you end up getting attacked by savage villiagers 
 which try everything they can to kill you. Then alpha team is sent in too but they get attacked 
 by this symboite like creature that kills them then you and sheva are left to defend for yourselfs 
 but over all its a good game i recommend it to horror lovers. Or if you liked RE4. But its a good 
 installment to the RE series and i think if you like the other RE's then you'll defintatly like 
 this one its great. So if you like horror get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2009 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Before "Gears of War" took the industry by storm when it was released in November 2006, "Resident 
 Evil 4" was the game to go to for big action horror thrills. In fact, Marcus Fenix apparently loved 
 the chainsaw decaptation segments because he decided to go with the Lancer for extremely bloody 
 melee kills. And while the two games couldn't be any different, I've always wondered how RE 4 would 
 be like with a live partner. Now I know, it's almost like playing "Gears of War" with a buddy; 
 it's awesome.
  
  Personally, I feel the game is almost RE 4.5, but then again so was "Gears of War 2". It was a 
 repeat of the first game's formula, yet polished it to near perfection. But while RE 5 doesn't 
 refine its gameplay, it does add the co-op element which works beautifully. This is a much better 
 cooperative game than "Army of Two" and honestly brings to mind the co-op modes of "Gears". However, 
 unlike RE 4, the game is divided into chapters (like DMC) and there are plenty of loading screens. 
 Also, you now purchase/upgrade weapons in between chapters.
  
  The look of the game is in direct contrast of RE 4's. It's in the dusty, sun drenched lands of 
 Africa and it looks great on the 360. Yes, "Far Cry 2" is more impressive, but RE 5's visuals are 
 crisp and the framerate is smooth. If you loved RE 4 and want more of it, than part 5 will blow 
 you away. Even living in these post-"Gears" years, "Resident Evil 5" is still a great action game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pakhair
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I never right reviews but I thought I should make one for it
  
  For the first time in series (Main Versions) the RE game is made by a new producer\Director "Jun 
 Tekuchi"
  
  See whether it's a stellar creation or just another game which destroys the name of RE series
 
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=
  STORY
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  The Last installment in the series took us to Spain but this game loosely ties to that. It's the 
 story of Wesker & Chris in Hype and awaited since original RE 5. The game will keep the RE Veterans 
 wanting for more with Chris, Jill and Wesker's story. The new ones will pick up the story quite 
 easily as the game helps a lot in understanding it but still having a little knowledge of T-Veronica 
 Virus or Las Plagas Parasites is good. The game wrap ups a lot of loose ends from the series and 
 creates some more although the plot has some holes but it Will still keep you entertained . The 
 game's major twist is so obvious that a 6 years old can easily see through it.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  GRAPHICS
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  Graphics of the game are quite stunning and 
 it is one of the best looking game of this generation and you will easily notice dust in air, Light 
 reflecting from every object, the graphics are so clear even standing next to them. The facial 
 animation is some times not right but it is almost right most of the times. The monsters are so 
 brilliant that you want to stop and look at them
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  SOUND DESIGN
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  The background score especially in fights really fit 
 the mood and you can never say that it's bad. The voice acting is the best in series until now 
 especially the Wesker, Chris & Excella but for others it is OK but for few it is terrible.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  GAME DESIGN
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  The game's main life is 
 Co-Op. In Offline it's a good game but has it's issues. A player can jump in anytime either online 
 or offline. The two players have their own inventory each has 9 slots. You have access to both 
 of the inventories and you will have to maintain both of them because AI lacks the ability to maintain 
 their Inventory slots but while playing in co-op the tension removes away but then the tension 
 will be to carefully divide the weapons with other player which makes up the stress. The weapons 
 are upgraded in shop with gold coins which can be obtained by destroying crates or killing enemies, 
 The shop can be accessed after each chapter or after continue,
  
  The Gameplay is simply linear and gives no choices at all your objective will be clearly mentioned 
 on map. The Botton tapping sequences make a return in RE 5 and this time they are easy at start 
 and tougher near end.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  GAMEPLAY
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  A lot of people think that RE should be gunning while running kind of stuff. I completely disagree 
 with that because standing still while shooting builds the intensity and tension [and that's the 
 only thing left of survival in RE Franchise] . The Enemies AI this time is quite good because they 
 are not zombies and will dodge, attack, run and act as intelligent humans. When a horde of enemies 
 are near you or you are fighting mini bosses your main strategy will be to run away, turn around 
 and shoot again and again because only a few of enemies can match Chris or Sheva's speed, It might 
 seem as boring but is extremely great because it builds up the tension. The button tapping sequences 
 are back and later in the game they can become quite hard. Later in the game you will face locations 
 where you will have to press a button and the player will go in cover behind that object, this 
 is pretty good and provides a lot of fun but this makes me think why the cover system wasn't implemented 
 in the whole game.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  PRESENTATION
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  The game can be played in two different ways Alone and in Co-Op.
  
  As I said before this 
 game is meant to be played in Co-op with other players because you both will have to fight right, 
 cover other, the timing of melee attacks should be perfect and the button pressing should be perfect, 
 Ones mistake can cause the other and that's the true feeling of RE 5.
  While offline Sheva is frustrating because she will spread all of the ammo and if you are even 
 in caution state she will use a healing item, she can't arrange his Inventory so most of your time 
 will be spent managing both inventories, You can give her two commands but that will not help at 
 all although she is a good example of AI because she is good at shooting and she Will always protect 
 you in need but Human Intelligence is Humans Intelligence it can't be compared to AI.
  
  The boss fights are stunning but there is only one simple strategy to shoot and the puzzle solving 
 boss fights are no more, Most of your time will be spent shooting the infected. The game-play is 
 easy to pic up and master. Now days you will See mounted guns and turrets in almost every second 
 action game so they are not wholly groundbreaking stuff but the important thing is timing yes the 
 whole game arranges things so perfectly that you can't leave the game once you start it until you 
 end it because there are no moments in the game which will stop you from playing it and you will 
 always want to know that what lies around next corner.
  
  The action sequences, choreography and camera angles are so perfectly chosen that you will want 
 to see more and more. The graphics and music are stellar. The Puzzles are quite easy and insulting 
 as compared to previous installments the creepy horror feeling has almost gone.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  LASTING APPEAL
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  No doubt this game has 
 a lot in it although it seems that a game without competitive game-play won't have much. Beating 
 the game in various ways unlocks modes and features.
  
  Playing the game online and offline is completely different experience and playing campaign with 
 different Friends provide different kind of fun. The Mercenaries mode is addictive and u can't 
 leave it . Different characters provide different playing experience.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  ENDING COMMENTS
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  RE 5 is 
 a great game and a must own for 2009 and action fans will love it. If you didn't liked the demo 
 it is possible that you don't like the game because it is a lot like the demo. The game has it's 
 moments and it is a great shooter but IT'S NOT RESIDENT EVIL. Because the scaring, puzzle solving 
 element of the game is replaced with action. Which will gasp a lot of new players but disappoint 
 many of the old ones. I advise you play the game on Highest Difficulty because on normal it ain't 
 any challenge at all and is way too easy.
  
  
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=
  RATING
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  STORY = 8
  GRAPHICS = 9.5
  SOUND DESIGN = 8.5
  GAME DESIGN = 8.5
  
 GAME-PLAY = 8.5
  PRESENTATION = 9.0
  LASTING APPEAL = 9.0
  
  OVERALL = 9.0
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  MY PERSONAL OPINION
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  I have ended all of the RE games (0,1,2,3, CV, DA, Outbreak File#1,2,4, UC) and some portables 
 too. I am such a big fan of the series that I have ended most of the games in highest difficulty 
 possible. I have played RE games more than 300 Hrs, Using net about them like posting, uploading, 
 downloading e. t. c and spent almost 100 Hrs in that too. Now you know what I am talking about.
 
  
  I DIDN'T LIKED RE 5 AS A RESIDENT EVIL GAME
  
  It has lost so much in this game the scares, the feeling of being alone, great puzzle solving, 
 boss fights [boss figths in this game are fantastic but plain shooting] , the complex and great 
 story. In an effort to make new fans they have disappointed old ones this is the beginning you 
 will See more people saying the same all over web soon enough. The Story telling is disappointing 
 and the ending is the worst in the series. The new creator "Jun Tekuchi" has failed to met the 
 whereabouts of previous creator "Shinji Mikami". This game will have huge sales figures because 
 as a new IP [which barely relates to resident evil and picks a little of resident evil] it is great 
 and it will please new ones.
  
  I really wanted to love this game but I didn't, I hope the future is better. It could have been 
 so much more,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hintonian
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Pros- The world in RE5 is beautiful. The locations and lighting in the game are awesome. The game 
 gets super crazy super quick and the newly added Co op feature is way better then i though it would 
 be. We had decided to play on Veteran (Hard) mode seeing as we though playing it on an easier mode 
 in Co-op would have been to easy. The new melee system is a blessing to clear out groups of guys 
 when your surrounded and there's always plenty of areas to duck off into if you get trapped in 
 a corner. The voice acting is spot on and fits well for all the characters and isn't overly corny 
 and cheesy. The new map system is great to help show you where you need to go, find your partner, 
 and during boss battles there's a marker to help show you where hes sneaking around at so you don't 
 get surprised by a hit from behind. When healing your partner if you're within the mist of the 
 healing item it also heals your health with is a nice added bonus. Being able to swap items on 
 the fly helps too. So if your partner is loaded up on shotgun ammo and your running low they can 
 toss you some of theirs. There is plenty of customizable weapons and collectibles to collect. Every 
 level has little blue emblems hidden through out them coming to a total of 30. You can use this 
 to buy artwork, movies, figurines, and other goodies.
  
  Con - The characters are ugly. They are very bland, and almost robotic. It also seems as though 
 the enemy models are overly recycled. In RE4 the local "zombie" characters seemed more varied but 
 it seems like the same 3 and a women are trying to kill ya. Although it adds to the strategy of 
 the game I'm going to throw in the lack of ammo as a con to me cause i hate running out of ammo 
 with 8 guys running after me considering a full clip of ammo usually takes 1 guy down. Although 
 noted above that I like the item passing its frustrating with ammo. For some reason you transfer 
 30 ammo at a time. So if you just want to help reload your partner you have to give them all your 
 ammo unless your stocking more then 30 bullets. They butchered the RE formula making it way to 
 much of a standard 3rd person shooter. Each "level" is a start here run to the end and your done. 
 Where is the backtracking across the entire world to get into a single door to get ammo? Chris 
 Redfield is a tool, and Leon would have been WAY better! (Had to throw that in there Tony!) .
  
  I'm sure i could sit down and fit a lot more into this but im not going to get all geeky and 
 hardcore about it. Just thought id let the world know how i feel personally about the game thus 
 far. Its a pretty sweet game and by all means i recommend it to anyone looking for a new game wither 
 your an RE fan or not. If I can come up with anything new or interesting to say about RE5 i will 
 post it. But in a nutshell I would say my overall score would have to be a 8/10.
  
  Rob Hinton AKA Hintonian19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nimbuster90
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I really liked having the briefcase in Res4, just b/c it was like a mini-game to sort out your 
 weapons and stuff. They replaced that with real time inventory and hotkeys (D-pad) . I like the 
 hotkeys, but OMG I'm constantly running out of space and ammo, so my hotkeys become pointless. 
 I find myself using melee weapons and constantly rearming Sheva.
  
  And yeah, Sheva runs out of ammo constantly. Give her a pistol and nothing else, she will go trigger 
 happy. She also likes to get in the way, shoot you, and cannot seem to shine the light where you 
 want her to in dark tunnels. But then again... nice eyecandy... so if all else fails take all her 
 weapons and just admire the view. :P
  
  The graphics are beautiful, but some of the environments are not so interactive. The whole corridor/confined 
 path layout Res Evil has taken is kind of annoying sometimes. And the bosses... well they are the 
 main reason I run out of ammo. 4 explosive barrels, 3 grenades, and a whole clip of an SMG... just 
 to take down a dude with a chainsaw?!?! Don't get me going on the other bosses. There is so much 
 stuff around me to use as weapons, but the game just won't let me.
  
  Overall it is fun, but getting swarmed by tons of enemies with limited ammo and no money gets old. 
 And trust me, I spent so much time scrounging for every bit of ammo/treasures that I got C ratings 
 for level durations. The game is more Survival than Horror. Still fun to play, but I find myself 
 actually taking breaks from playing. There is just something missing... the game just doesn't keep 
 me engulfed.
  
  One of the main reasons I love the game, is the whole mystery and bonus content you unlock throughout 
 the game. It makes playing the game again that much more fun. Res5 is not as long as Res4, but 
 with so many games nowadays I don't mind. I am not intimidated by a long story and can actually 
 enjoy playing though several times with the unlocked stuff. It is one of those games where the 
 first play is cool, but successive play-throughs are better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I stood in line at midnight just to get this game and there were a lot of other people wanting 
 to get this game as well and that should tell you that Resident Evil 5 is one of the biggest games 
 of this year and it's with good reason as well. This is simply one of the best Resident Evils I've 
 played since Resident Evil 4 came out on the Gamecube in 2005. The game takes place in 2009 and 
 it's been 11 years since the first Resident Evil and this time we take control of the game's first 
 protagonist Chris Redfield as he is investigating some crazy stuff that's been happening in Africa 
 and a new character is introduced Sheva Alomar who is a member of the BSAA West African branch 
 that helps out Chris in his quest to find out what Tri-Cell the company that is responsible for 
 some strange disease that's fallen on a small village. Over the course of the game Chris will meet 
 up with some old enemies, make new ones, and find out a horrible secret about Umbrella.
  Right away the action gets going and doesn't stop and there are a few puzzles to break up the action, 
 but like with Resident Evil 4 they don't get in the way of the action and speaking of it there's 
 plenty and Capcom sure knows how to ramp up the difficulty as I found out quickly the enemies are 
 smarter this time around and will do everything in their power to stop you, but Chris has a few 
 new tricks up his sleeve as he's seemed to learn some pretty brutal moves that will put a smile 
 on your face. Now a lot of people complain about the controls in Resident Evil 5 because they take 
 a little time to get use to, but after some playing I got use to the controls and Resident Evil 
 4 players will be right at home. The scale of the game is bigger than Resident Evil 4 and the game 
 will take you a good while to finish if you want to get everything unlocked and it's a define buy 
 if you're a fan of the series. The only problems I could find with the game so far is Sheva's AI 
 is a little stupid in parts and Capcom could of done better with her AI, but thanks to some co-op 
 with a friend this problem can be avoided and sometimes if there are to many enemies on screen 
 the game will lag, but not that bad and the story can get quite confusing in parts. So make sure 
 you know your Resident Evil history. The voice acting in Resident Evil 5 is a lot better than previous 
 games. The characters show emotion and the voice actors play there parts just great and the music 
 is pretty good as well. All in all Resident Evil 5 is a sequel that doesn't disappoint and fans 
 of the series will be pleased with this sequel. One thing I forgot to mention is the cover system 
 which works for the most part, but other times it just gets in the way of the game and sometimes 
 it is frustrating and I can't help, but think Capcom ripped it off from Gears of War in a way.
 
  Pros:
  + Solid game play and the action is intense
  + Co-op works pretty good and it helps to have a friend play
  + Voice acting is great and the 
 music is some of the best in Resident Evil history.
  + A lot of extras to unlock and graphics look amazing on the 360 and PS3.
  + Achievements are 
 not to hard to get
  
  Cons:
  - Sheva's AI in the single player game is off and could of been done better
  - Some slowdown 
 in fighting if there are to many enemies on screen
  - Story can get a little confusing in parts if you haven't played the other games
  - Controls 
 take a little getting use to at first
  - Some of the dialogue is still cheesy.
  
  All in all I give Resident Evil 5 a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bestgamer100
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  After all this waiting, it is finally here. I was so happy when i got my hands on that disc. The 
 trailers looked so wicked and the even the game case did too. The rush at the store was unbelievable 
 but at the same time exiting. Enough rambling about the wait and feelings, lets review the game.
 
  
  Graphics 10/10 ----Superb graphics.
  
  Story 10/10 ----The story really kept you wanting to play because of the suspense.
  
  Gameplay 
 10/10 ----Fantastic controls and excellent setting.
  
  Sound 10/10 ----Couldn't have been better and contributed alot to the suspense.
  
  I strongly 
 recommend you play this game. With a total of 70 achievement points, this game will keep you playing 
 for weeks to even months. Good gaming friends! 
  
  *NOTE* I suggest that you play this game on an HD TV because boy oh boy, it will make such a difference! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreatureRising
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  Sence this game has be talked about so much i really do not need to explain the story Chartcers 
 ETC
  
  What we have here is a very very very good action game, not a horror game (wich means its not a 
 10 in my books : () But the game makes quick work to tell you it doesnt matter here i am this is 
 the new RE. Now Fans be thinking "thats mot good i loved the horror theme" I did to but i gave 
 the game a chance. So in the end what we have here is a game that will be awesome for Fans and 
 maybe a nromal Action game for others
  
  Pros
  you can change the controls to RE4 Style
  Amazing Graphics
  Lots of depth to style how you 
 want to play from the guns to armor
  RE Fans will enjoy the story and if your not you will stil enjoy it
  Co-oP runs pretty smooth
 
  Boss fights are stil Epic!
  
  CONS : (
  Some dumb AI at times
  Really not horror just some gory things and the possible jump scare
  Sheva is stupid she wastes 
 ammo and uses items to much like herbs
  some graphical twitches
  
  So if you havent picked up a copy of this game you oh yourself this game. This going to be played 
 on Xbox live and PSN for quite a bit so join the awesomeness
  
  Real Score
  9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -moonfrost-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 5 isn't far like resident evil 4, but this is what make this game evolve, because 
 the prequels of this game has same game-play except first person series.
  In this game you will find more action compare with resident evil's game before, and more variation 
 creatures will you fight (you'll find lickers but there is no hunters) , there are small untill very 
 big creatures you fight. 
  The story more complex, its connecting from Resident Evil Zero until Resident Evil Code Veronica. 
 The prologue were insert between loading disc.
  This game took various kind of setting place with great graphic, begin from small city till cave. 
 There is a place never took before, that is ruins and some puzzles, but overall you'll not find 
 riddles like in Resident Evil's game before, what you have to do are shoot and kill the monsters.
 
  So if you headshooter you must play this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoserTMTKidz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  Well, I am new to the series so I guess I really can't speak on behalf of all the hardcore Resident 
 Evil fans. I, however, really enjoyed this game. I've read up on the story, so I know what has 
 happened to this point, and this game also gives a complete history in the main menu to help the 
 new comers understand what has happened. While this isn't the traditional "scary mansion" type 
 Resident Evil, it does take on a cool new flavor. It kind of has that Black Hawk Down vibe. I think 
 Capcom was going for the style that was in the movie Resident Evil: Extinction. If you are really 
 wanting a scary game, than you may be disappointed here. I didn't really care if it was scary or 
 not. I just wanted a great action game with some spooky elements to it, and this game delivered 
 for me. Besides, if I want to play something scary, I'll play Condemned. 
  
  First, I'll start with the single player. While single player is fun, there are some flaws that 
 do hold it back. The first flaw would be that Sheva's A. I. is rather unbalanced. There are times 
 that she will actually do something awesome against enemies or find something that you may have 
 missed. And then other times she is a complete idiot. For example, you can give her an "Attack" 
 command or a "Cover" command. If you give her the "Cover" command, she will be very reserved and 
 won't do a whole lot to help you, and if you give her the "Attack" command, she becomes incredibly 
 trigger happy and goes in guns blazing. That usually results in her dying (which causes you to 
 restart) if there is a lot of enemies, or her unloading an entire clip on one or two guys. The 
 second flaw is that the controls are slightly awkward. The look sensitivity is too slow for this 
 kind of game, and the inventory menu is kind of a pain to use. I'm not going to really complain 
 about the stop-and-shoot issue though. It just takes a little bit of getting used to, but I didn't 
 find it to be that hindering. 
  
  Secondly, I'll talk about the Co-Op. This is where RE5 truly shines. I believe this is how the 
 creators intended for this game to be played. My friend and I tried this split screen and system 
 link. The split screen is EXCELLENT! Instead of using the typical 50/50 split screen that most 
 games use, there are two off-set rectangular boxes which makes it feel like you have your own TV 
 to look at. More games should use this style. The system link is great and you have the whole TV 
 to yourself. The Co-Op is great because you can strategize with your partner which you could really 
 do with your partner. For example, there is a part where you have to lure a Uroboros into a furnace 
 so you can incinerate it. When playing with another person, this can be done fairly easily. If 
 done alone, this can be a daunting task. 
  
  Lastly, the Mercenaries mode. This is a really cool mode that is unlocked after you beat the game. 
 It is a timed survival mode as you take on an onslaught of zombies. It could be compared in a way 
 to the Horde mode of Gears of War 2. If you want to have that scared feeling that you could lose 
 your life at any moment, this is the mode that brings it. 
  
  All in all, while this game suffers some problems (mainly in single player) , it is a great game 
 overall, and a terrific co-op experience. It may not be the typical Resident Evil that everyone 
 expects, but it is a game that everyone must play.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ash-Fei
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:18 am PT
Review:  The big disappointment has captured me after check of this game.
  After passage Resident Evil 4 continuation I waited this game very much.
  As a result it it has 
 appeared usual action as Army Of two, Kane and Lynch,
  Left4Dead. About a game genre it is written: "Horror Action Adventure".
  Yes i agree, what it 
 "Action  where there "Horror"? 
  Any horrors is not present in general, in comparison with other parts.
  If they have forgotten 
 partially as it to do, let will ask guys who did "Dead Space". 
  The silly partner which constantly it is necessary to watch. It only complicates passage,
  instead 
 of helps. What for it in general have made. Would leave as in RE4 in some parts, 
  instead of it is constant? Strange automatic system of saving, treatment after death, 
  almost 
 same as in "Army Of Two", "Kane and Lynch". The such treatment and record causes effect 
  of that it as though usual action even more. In my opinion it is one of the worst games of a series.
 
  Good: Sound, Graphics.
  Bad: Gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  
  Resident Evil 5 is like a roller coaster ride it starts you off slow and the minute you get a weapon 
 is non stop action all the way through. If you're a fan of Resident Evil 4 you will definitely 
 end up loving Resident Evil 5. 
  
  This time around you'll be playing as Chris Redfield instead of Leon Kennedy. If you're seen the 
 movie RE: Degeneration is kind of picks up right after the events of that movie. There's this new 
 company called Tricell and Umbrella seems to loose control of the new virus that originated from 
 Africa. So the game has come in full circle as far as where the virus was created. Is all up to 
 Chris to find out who's behind it and what happened in the city of Kijuju. 
  
  This time you will also partner up with a new character named Sheva Alomar. Both Chris and Sheva 
 work for the BSAA: Bio-terrorism Security Assessment Alliance and they're trying to get this virus 
 under control. I'm not going to go too much into detail as far as the story goes because I don't 
 want to spoil it for the hardcore fans of the game. One thing I'll say is that you will get some 
 answers from the previous games and I'll leave it at that. 
  
  The controls haven't changed much from Resident Evil 4 the only thing that has change is the fact 
 that you can change weapons in real time which you couldn't do before. This could be a good thing 
 and a bad thing because sometimes you're running low on health and you have to bring up your inventory 
 screen and try to get the herbs while being attacked at the same time. Good thing about this you 
 can map the weapons and inventory to your d-pad without having to bring up your inventory so that's 
 a plus. You're also allowed to run in the game but you still can't shoot and move. 
  
  The graphics in Resident Evil 5 are just amazing; the views are highly detailed and astounding 
 to look at. It just makes you want to continue going through the level to see what the next level 
 would look like. You'll never feel bored when you're walking around the different environments 
 in the game they all look gorgeous. 
  
  Also a first for the series is co-op online. You'll be able to play the entire game cooperative 
 with another friend all the way through jump in and out at any time. Another thing I would like 
 to mention that came back from RE4 is having all your weapons upgraded and having unlimited ammo 
 active after finishing the game once. This makes it even more enjoyable playing it a second time 
 around. There are 3 different types of difficulty and once you finish it on the highest you unlock 
 an even harder mode. Also after finishing the game once you'll able to play with Sheva and also 
 unlock mercenaries mode which puts you in a map with a timer to kill as many zombies as you can 
 within that time frame I love it!!!
  
  If you're a fan of action third person shooters you'll definitely love this game. I think a lot 
 of the old fans of the series will be disappointed with the game because is not as scary has the 
 pervious installments. But that's ok with me I really enjoy playing this game and I really put 
 RE5 in a very high place with my other favorite games from the past. I highly recommend this game 
 to anybody that loves zombie games and very high on action shooters. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is one of the only modern masterpieces. It is considered to be the best PS2 and 
 GC game ever (by many) and is also said to be the peak of Capcom, RE and the benchmark of any type 
 of horror game. Basically, when RE4 was releassed, Capcom did everything right. They introduced 
 many new things which made this game a true 'survivol' horror action adventure. 
  
  And when people found out that RE5 will be releasing, there was sky-high excitment everywhere... 
 
  
  They made us wait for four years, and finally, we got RE5. But was it worth the wait? Was it worth 
 the hype? Does it really live up to its highly acclaimed predecessor? Well, read my review deck, 
 and you'll get the answer.
  
  The answer is no. The game will please newcomers to the series but hardocre fans of RE will surely 
 be disappointed. Resident Evil 5 is a very ordinary game. Its just another third person shooter. 
 Everything that we love about RE4 has been removed. Now you can find health packs and ammunation 
 anywhere in the game. There are no zombies, just idiotic infected villagers. And the game just 
 isn't scary anymore. This game doesn't make me pee in my pants the way RE4 did. And the game isn't 
 tough at all. 
  
  There are some things, though, which have been kept from the previous game. You still can't shoot 
 while running. Which means you'll have to stop running and then shoot. 
  
  But the gameplay isn't all that bad. There are certain redeeming qualities. One thing that was 
 my personal favourite was the melee attacks. Shoot two or three times with your handgun at your 
 enemy. The guy will stagger a bit, which gives you time for a melee attack. Go close to the enemy 
 and a button icon pops up. If you press the button with perfet timing, then the main character 
 pulls off a flashy and cool looking move. Even though this thing may not be very original, it is 
 fun to see and do.
  
  The controls, though, feel a bit dated.
  
  The side character of this game, Sheva Alomar isn't, for ocne, unlike the President's Daughter 
 in RE4, irritating. In fact, she's quite helpful. And she has certain tricks up her sleeve that 
 are very helpful.
  
  THe sound of the game is good. It perfectly fits in all the situations. So much so, that you sometimes 
 don't even notice that there's music playing in the background.
  
  The graphics are highly detailed and very beautiful and spectacular to look at. The animation, 
 the lighting, the background are all too cool to be missed. The graphics of this game are one of 
 the best for any game this generation.
  
  So. Ultimately, all of it boils down to this: RE5 is a very ordinary third person shooter. It isn't 
 even horror anymore. The newcomers to the series will be excited by the fast paced action of this 
 game but hardcore fans of the series will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreaper666
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:19 am PT
Review:  Sorry, but This resident Evil lost the RE touch, Kinda Miss the Zombies + the Solo playing. It 
 lost the Fear touch. I mean the Previous RE games were mind blowing because of :
  1- the Music
  2- the Mindless monsters who want to eat u not just kill u.
  3- The mystery of 
 the story
  4- the SOLO PLAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICExLegit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 3:42 am PT
Review:  alright so i picked up the game today and was pumped to play it especially that i just bought a 
 42in lcd 1080p HDTV the day before and just placed it on my wall:) . so i pop open the case and 
 put it in and start playing.
  
  Now i remember watching a interview video here on gamespot and the guy said its best to play with 
 a friend or over xbox live, so the first thing i did was went to custom match went to the first 
 level and found a guy playing on veteran so i join his game, well even tho i missed the intro i 
 still stated near the start. one thing i found confusing was by the user name there is a red cation 
 sign or a red cation sign with a white X over it and i didnt know what to pick, both had great 
 ping to pick, i choose the one with the white X over it and it went great, the person had a mic 
 and it was all good. 
  
  Now we started playing and it was very hard on veteran we die about 9 times and he die about 14 
 and we could pass the first part, so he turn the difficulty down a bit and it was just fine.
  
  It was a long time to get to chapter 2 which im on now it took about 5 hours, and it was fun 
 and filled with action. Now to make this short ill summary everything up.
  
  PROs:
  Fantastic Graphics 10/10
  Voice acting 9.6/10 - it may look kinda werid at a point but great.
 
  Online 10/10 - you can buy things and share and help each other out call to each other what is 
 happing etc. 
  Difficulty 8.5/10 - there are times where it makes you mad for two things one, you get jump by 
 many people no knowing were from (kinda like in left 4 dead) and two, the over the shoulder cam 
 doesnt let you see people or dogs from behiide you.
  Controls 8/10 its all fun and good but it doesnt bug you after a while for example running or aiming 
 looking at the small red dot tying to make it perfect.
  
  CoNs:
  Single player 7/10 its all fun but with no real person controlling the other team mate its hard 
 to do and may get boring with no one to talk to or let you know there are 6 people behide you.
 
  split screen 9/10 its not really a con but i dont like that its split screen and you lose space 
 to see, but its better then playing by yourself. 
  
  
  so really the only bad thing is playing alone, it can become difficult and that they all try to 
 jump you and you get conned and die, or that you cannot heal yourself well very injury.
  
  AKA you should go out and buy it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mankind666
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:29 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 5 was Great but not the best, it is more like resident evil 4 with a new atmosphere.
 
  
  So what is this game about!
  Zombie bomb! and Chris Redfield is out to stop it with his new 6 pack! and also he has a new partner 
 sheva and guess what she is worse than Ashely! she will literally shoot u in the head until she 
 is out of bullets then ask for some, talk about a absolute idiot.
  
  what is the gameplay like well to be honest it was the same as re 4 but this time its so random 
 where u go, first a village second a marsh land 3rdly a oil rig then a military base where zombies 
 now have Guns... nice
  
  then they are all in groups and i am like  : ( and the god damn zombie are blasting me to sh1t.
 
  so what do i think of the game. Good, despite the flaws the game still has its good times. times 
 that make u want to throw the controler at the screen and times when your like HELL YEAH!
  
  
  get the game if your a fan of resident evil which i think am
  
  Go capcom 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmatic01
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:28 am PT
Review:  Ok so i picked this up today, being a fan of Res evil 4 i expected it to advance in terms of design 
 and playabilty, dont get me wrong its an ok game that die hard fans will love, but it just left 
 a bitter taste in my mouth, when you consider the length of time its had in development.
  
  Im tired of standing still and not being able to move while firing, this is a basic element that 
 should of been implemented! i know some of you will say this is classic Res4 but to me its not 
 enjoyable.
  
  You have no sense of the enviroment around you, for instance i was shooting at a manji when i was 
 attacked and pounced by a dog (which jumped at me diagonally i might add) this gets frustrating 
 after awhile.
  
  Also having a computer controlled character that cannot cover you properly and fend off attacks 
 made me feel let down, and that i had just wasted my money. 
  
  I've spent 2hrs in total on it, and i cannot be bothered to play it. 
  
  i know a lot of people 
 will disagree with me but my opinion is just that. My opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chroniclehobbit
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:38 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is (in my opinion) one of those games that comes along after high anticipation, 
 and then floors it's consumer with stunning displays of refined gaming. Of course with most games, 
 it takes some getting used to. Chris Redfield from RE1 and Code Veronica returns as an operative 
 for BSAA. He is joined by his partner Sheva Alomar and their mission is to detain a suspect in 
 biological warfare. In the game you will face off against many creatures (now called B. O. W's) who 
 are very similar to those seen in the previous installment of Resident Evil.
  
  Although the game is fantastic to say the least, it should not be over shadowed by any of the previous 
 installments. Nor should it be shown in the lime light above the rest. The previous games were 
 fresh ideas and were (in one way or another) ever changing or advancing. By now the Resident Evil 
 series has come a long way and has refined into the beloved games we know today. What makes this 
 game so great? Throughout the game you are playing cooperatively with the AI or another gamer via 
 internet. The AI is by no means shotty. In fact it's actually very dependable! Sheva will help 
 you if you are in trouble and will heal you if you are low on health. You can give them commands 
 and they will also assist you by giving you ammo. This however also means that you must take care 
 of them as well. What goes for them helping you, you must also help them. This helps you to concentrate 
 deeper on what's going on around you. The graphics are very impressive as is the sound. As the 
 story unfolds it will suck you in, and you will be surprised at how much you thought you knew, 
 but then totally floored by a unexpected twist. But I'm not telling! Just know that it'll hit you 
 when you least expect to. 
  
  Enjoy the ride!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  As no one else is reviewing this game I thought I would, but as I havent beaten the game this wont 
 be a detailed review.
  
  The graphics are the best I have seen in a game to date, the character models and movements are 
 fantastic and the lighting is splendid.
  
  The voice acting is good except for the start in which there is some stupid and overacted voicing 
 done by an annoying character.
  
  The gameplay is just like RE4 but not as thrilling, the boss battles are some epic and exciting 
 pieces, but yet again, not as good as RE4.
  
  The game also lacks RE4's creepy spanish setting and lacks the "creepy" that all RE games should 
 have.
  
  The vehicle sections add a nice change of pace yet arent as good as RE4's. The story is great, 
 but needs to be paid attention to and for you to know what the games are all about.
  
  The action is intense and gameplay and sound are exceptional, but this game lacks something RE4 
 had, its hard to tell. An above average shooter overall but not the creepy thrill ride promised.
 
  
  9.0
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
