-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ridge Racer 6
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/ridgeracer6/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Slick-looking menu design.
 Fast action with a smooth frame rate.
 Cool car design.
 Good music.
 Pac-Man in a spaceship.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Exhaust notes are too subdued.
 Announcer says nitrous so often that you'll eventually go insane.
 Minor but noticeable graphical issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 22, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.6, 87 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,818 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco
Genre: Racing
Date: Nov 17, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you've played any recent Ridge Racer game, you know exactly what to expect in Ridge Racer 6-- a 
 slick, fast-moving racing game with interesting handling characteristics. 

  The Ridge Racer series began in the arcades, but it became synonymous with Sony's PlayStation line 
 of game consoles. Each of Sony's three pieces of game hardware have launched with a Ridge Racer 
 game right there next to it. The series has appeared on other platforms throughout history, but 
 these have traditionally been a repackaging of existing Ridge Racer games. The Sony/Namco streak 
 is broken now, because Ridge Racer 6 is now available just in time for the launch of the Xbox 360. 
 The drift-crazy driving action is intact, as fast as ever, and comes along with a robust online 
 ranking and racing system that breathes new life into the long-running franchise.  

          Ridge Racer 6 is the first in the series to appear on a Microsoft console.     

  The 
 racing and handling in the Ridge Racer series border on ridiculous. It's all about huge, perfectly 
 executed losses of traction, which let you whip the tail end of your car out and slide around corners 
 without having to slow down first. For the most part, if you're hitting the brakes in a Ridge Racer 
 game, chances are you're doing something wrong. The cornering in the game is practically automatic, 
 too. Once you've started a slide, all you need to control is the direction your car is facing. 
 As soon as you can center it back onto your main direction of travel, it'll snap back into traction 
 and start moving forward again. This means that you can whip around even the hairiest of hairpin 
 curves without actually having to navigate the curve yourself. Just start the drift, and the game 
 takes care of the rest. It's almost like a roller coaster ride that way. But the skill comes in 
 making sure that your drifts are close enough to center to prevent you from losing too much speed. 
 So you'll usually just want to barely slide out as you fly around turns. But there's still more 
 to consider. In most race types, drifting adds juice to an onscreen nitrous boost meter that's 
 broken up into three segments. Once a segment is full, you can bust it for a quick burst of speed. 
 So there are plenty of cases where you'll want to keep drifts going for as long as possible, even 
 if it means sliding out on purpose while heading down straightaways.  

  Faster drifts fill your nitrous meter more quickly, but you can't earn boost while nitrous is active. 
 This creates a natural strategy of timing your boosts so that they expire just before a big curve, 
 letting you burn off that excess speed with a long, fast drift that quickly gets you some more 
 nitrous. That move's called an ultimate charge. The nitrous meter debuted in the recent PSP version 
 of Ridge Racer, but here you can fill up more of your meter and unleash double and triple nitrous 
 boosts, which are longer lasting and more intense -- or, at least, they're faster than a regular 
 old single boost. While it's all very simple on the surface, the game's handling can be quite demanding, 
 especially once you get into tougher races and start driving faster cars. Above all, it's thrilling 
 in the same way that previous Ridge Racer games have been. It's slow and easy at first, though 
 the later races demand ice-cold perfection.  

  But by the time you get to those later races, you'll have seen every single track on multiple occasions, 
 both forward and backward. The "world xplorer" mode, which is the game's equivalent of a career 
 mode, starts you out with 111 races, but as you get to the end of its multirouted path, other, 
 more-difficult routes appear on the map. There are hundreds of different events to choose from, 
 but you're really racing on the same tracks over and over again, just in different car classes, 
 in different directions, or with a slightly different rule set. Despite the almost immediate repetition, 
 the world xplorer map screen provides just enough to keep you going with the constant promise of 
 new vehicles as you complete races.  

          The nitrous boosts add some interesting strategic decisions to the game.     

  As you 
 go from class to class, the cars get faster and sleeker, but the basics remain the same. There 
 are different drift types to choose from. Mild drift cars tend to take turns normally and don't 
 drift very much. Dynamic drift cars can't take turns too well unless you drift constantly. They 
 also swing out much wider than the other classes, making it harder to keep them under control, 
 and they have a higher top speed. The standard drift cars are a friendly sweet spot between the 
 other two. They aren't usually much slower than dynamic drift cars, but they're much easier to 
 control. The car designs aren't licensed, but the entire game uses fictional car manufacturers 
 and designs based loosely on Namco's characters and games from throughout its 50-year history. 
 So you'll see cars with Pac-Man on the side, or, if you're looking for a more modern reference, 
 there's a car called the Mitsurugi Meltfire. The cars don't take damage in collisions, which is 
 par for the course for the Ridge Racer series. Collisions with walls and other cars tend to slow 
 you down a lot, but you can usually use nitrous to dig yourself out of most holes, provided you 
 don't make big mistakes at the end of a race.     

  In addition to the world xplorer mode, there's a single race mode and a global time attack mode 
 to play by yourself. Single race is pretty standard. Global time attack is a cool fastest-run challenge 
 that posts your times for each class and track to an online scoreboard. The server keeps track 
 of the fastest drivers and also lets you download and race against ghost replays of other players' 
 performances. This is a fantastic way to learn the nuances of the handling, as the faster drivers 
 out there know exactly when, where, and how long they need to drift to keep their speed up while 
 still earning loads of nitrous. Uploading and downloading ghosts from Xbox Live takes very little 
 time, which helps make the whole feature much more appealing than the average time attack mode. 

          As you get into the special class cars, you'll start to encounter all kinds of weird-looking 
 designs.     

  While competing against ghosts and racing for the fastest time are cool, a more exciting aspect 
 is the game's full-fledged multiplayer support, which can handle up to 14 racers, total, though 
 the game always defaults to eight players. Like most other Xbox Live games on the Xbox 360, Ridge 
 Racer 6 lets you select player match for basic racing or ranked matches if you want it to count. 
 You earn points as you win races, and a global scoreboard keeps track of the point leaders. Since 
 the player with the highest rank starts at the very back of the pack, the online racing tends to 
 maintain some level of challenge as your skills improve. Performance-wise, the game seems to handle 
 higher player counts pretty well, though that also seems to be a factor of the host's Internet 
 connection. It may let you go all the way up to 14, if you want, but it probably defaults to eight 
 for a reason. If Xbox Live isn't your thing, you can also play two-player games on a split-screen. 
 This seems to work just fine, but it's not especially exciting.  

  If you look long and hard, you'll see a few flaws with the graphics. The textures on the car models 
 are occasionally blurry. The road textures often don't look so great, and you'll see some aliasing 
 here and there, but the game probably has the smoothest frame rate of any of the Xbox 360 launch 
 games and a great sense of speed to back it up. When you get into the class four and special vehicles, 
 you really start to feel like you're flying down the track. Also, the environments are pretty detailed. 
 One track is set on an airport runway, and you'll see lots of jetliners around the course, including 
 one that's cleverly decorated with the drum characters from Taiko Drum Master. One track has a 
 large dinosaur statue, and another features a series of great-looking satellite dishes. There are 
 even a few night courses in there that take you through a brightly lit city area, complete with 
 tunnels filled with colored lighting. While the somewhat simple technical nature results in a game 
 that might not always look better than other Xbox 360 games, the smooth frame rate really goes 
 a long way, resulting in a game that looks great regardless of the resolution you're running in. 

          If you're already tired of the Ridge Racer formula, this game isn't going to change your 
 mind.     

  The sound in Ridge Racer games has always been focused on the music and the announcer. Both are 
 back, and both adhere to that unmistakable Ridge Racer aesthetic. The music is a good collection 
 of fast-paced electronic music, including the requisite Rotterdam-style gabber track, though there 
 are also plenty of smoother tunes, including one that samples music and effects from Galaxian and 
 Galaga, two of Namco's classic arcade hits.  

  The announcer is a real knucklehead. Well, Ridge Racer announcers are almost  always  real knuckleheads. 
 But this one's really something. With the addition of nitrous to the game, the first lap of each 
 race tends to consist of the 14 cars on the track jockeying for position and, usually, busting 
 off with a whole lot of nitrous. And any time any racer near you does this, the announcer mentions 
 it. "Here comes some crazy nitrous" seems like it's uttered at least three times per race, but 
 there are plenty of other N2O-fueled lines of announcer dialogue, too. There will be spots where 
 the announcer spits off three or four nitrous lines in a row, all in the course or 20 or 30 seconds. 
 It's just weird, and even though there's variety to what the announcer's saying, it starts to sound 
 repetitive quickly. You can eventually unlock an alternate announcer voice. The rest of the sound 
 is functional, but not especially dramatic. The game's exhaust sounds are very subdued, for one, 
 and the sound effect of tires squealing on the pavement as you drift is roughly the same sound 
 every time. Considering some races have you drifting almost constantly, hearing the same squeals 
 for hours and hours gets old quickly.  

  Ridge Racer 6 might not be the most impressive technical achievement on the Xbox 360 this year, 
 but the racing is fast and rewarding enough to hook you in. And once you're addicted, you might 
 not stop until you've unlocked every last race and car. Considering there are well over 200 races 
 and over 100 cars, that's going to take some time. So if you're a fan of racing games in search 
 of high-speed thrills both online and off, Ridge Racer 6 has a lot going for it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (115 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:30 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is definately fun the as you progress through the races and the excitement of hitting 
 the triple nitrous on the straightaway to barely become victorious is a fulfilling feeling, but 
 the game becomes a bit repetitive after you easily win the first 50 races. Few races in the basic 
 route are all that challenging, and the goal of winning in all the cars or clearing the areas becomes 
 more of a task than a source of entertainment. I felt as if I needed to clear the areas because 
 i would miss out on something important but I was disappointed at some of the rewards. Some of 
 the cars served absolutely no purpose to me because the drifting system for them was too sensitive, 
 but that is my own perception and applies to my technique. The cars also are not all that unique 
 as all have the same body and either have different colors or sponsors or slightly different body 
 work in the higher classes.
  
  When the later levels are finally unlocked the game becomes much more of a challenge as a race 
 requires the driver to make few mistakes to emerge the winner. The special car types are pretty 
 cool to use and adds another element to the game, and can be very difficult at points.
  
  The multiplayer levels i found too challenging too effectively race my opponent because the screen 
 was too small to handle the inclines which caused many bumps into the wall. Not having other players 
 in the mix did not do justice to the game either, as the rush of passing multiple cars disappeared.
 
  
  I thought Ridge Racer was good clean fun, but the overall feeling was that I didn't accomplish 
 much, but the online option adds a whole other world to the game as opponents who are human are 
 much more fun to race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kombatmaster12
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 18, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Well my friend came over to my house and didn't want Ridge Racer 6 for no reason. I own the first 
 one for the PS and loved it. Even though I beat it like 30 times. This is the whole story of the 
 game.
  
  Plot: Your a guy or girl who is trying to race through the entire Ridge Racer world. 
  
  Game 
 Play: Thats really what you do in the game. The game play is flawed. Many reasons why and good 
 for many reasons why.
  
  GOOD:
  1 Races seem good at first only to get WAY to hard and repetitive.
  2 Feels solid at first.
 
  3 Looks fun.
  
  BAD:
  1 Lack of tracks and fun value after the 3'rd race in the X-Plorerer mode. 
  2 Annoying DJ guy 
 no matter how bad he sounds like Eddie Murphy on crack. Thats how annoying it is.
  3 You HAVE to win 1'st EVERY SINGLE RACE!!!!!!
  4 You cant use downloaded cars off LIVE to win 
 races. 
  5 Nitro system is stuiped and you don't win for using the pre-nitro start.
  6: Long and boring other than the pac-man game. 
  7: Achievements are really really confusing 
 and to secret. Only about 3 you can actually understand. Everything else is a secret or a message 
 from Reiko. Who the deuce is Reiko? Is he some stalker creep?
  8: Unfair even on easy after the first 3 races. The cars all get full of steroids and kill you 
 by like 4 miles at the start of the race.
  9: You can't put your car in freaking reverse!
  10: You can't use your brakes!
  11: You always have to drift which you never get the hang of.
 
  
  Graphics: Decent but you'll be so irritated at the game that it won't even matter.
  
  Audio: The music in RR6 makes me ill and want to vomit. It is either me or Ridge Racer music is 
 always glitch and never works at all even on a brand new disc. The music is annoying techno from 
 the years of Brittney Spears! It's annoying and makes me ill. Trust me. 
  
  Sound: At least the cars sound real. To bad half of them aren't even cars and just random machines. 
 In fact. They aren't cars. Their MACHINES. Woooooo ahhhhhhhhh. Gay. The DJ will make you ill as 
 well. Not as a racial thing but seriously after you hear the word "nitrous" 9 times in a row and 
 the stuiped comments he makes you will be dying to find the mute button.
  
  Conclusion: DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! Unless you are a fan of the RR series it is not worth the time. 
 Let it sit on the shelf and gather dust it is horrible and unrealistic and an insult to gamers 
 and racing gamers. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzz86
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing Ridge Racer on the PlayStation 1. The game was ok but very unrealistic. In Ridge 
 Racer 6 the graphics and sound have improved alot since Ridge Racer 1 but is still very unrealistic. 
 
  
  The thing that was the most annoying about this game was the way the cars drift around corners. 
 They don't drift in a nice way like in Need for Speed. They drift around every single corner in 
 extreme fashion. Like the car pretty much spins a 360 around every corner but doesn't spin out. 
 Around every corner you can get your car to go sideways and easily bring it back to driving straight 
 after the corner. This was kind of fun to do for the first few corners but after a short time just 
 became lame and annoying. 
  
  Who wants to spend hours drifting cars around corners in a crazy fashion and performing giant jumps 
 in your car that would be sure to ruin an actual vehicle. 
  
  This game is not worth playing for more than 10 minutes. If you want a racing game get "Forza 2" 
 or "Colin McCrae" or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peasly
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  I was a bit wary of playing this as my first experience on the PS 1 was to
  say the least not good..
  
  Playing it on the X360 is amazing its changed a lot. Now you can 
 use double
  and triple nitrous, there's also a world explorer..
  
  The special cars are great especially the Namco Pac-Man, where you race as
  a space saucer and 
 you can very easily obtain nitrous without problems..
  
  The graphics are great, and the gameplay is intense and competitive.. im not
  too sure about 
 the other DJ voice and the robotic woman's voice, a bit wierd..
  
  I bought this game as a pre owned and im sooooo glad i did.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boot_sectorz
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  i think this game isn't for all kinds of people even those who like racing games.... i think it's 
 a litte bit too arcade.... it's a good game for 10 year old kids but i think for those of us who 
 have several gaming years it's not a good game.... maybe my oppinion is based on the fact that i 
 dont lile the game.... but it's just my oppinion.... if you want a good arcade game for the love 
 of God don't buy this one.... i gave it 5 because the graphics are fair and for those who like the 
 99% arcade without a point of simulation.... it's the one.... (P. S: not for me..... not approved) ... tks 
 for reading... good gaming 4 all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-Ivanski
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Out of all the racing games I have played on the Xbox 360, I must say this is my favorite one so 
 far... Burnout Revenge is great but tries a little too hard to be extreme and PGR 3 is boring.. I 
 remember first playing Ridge Racer on the PSP and having plenty of fun with it but 6 on the 360 
 just takes it to the next level. Now you can use double and triple nitrous, which makes it a lot 
 more competitive and you also get a world explorer, where you can take routes to get to the end. 
 There are also really cool special cars and the hilarious Namco Pac-Man, where you race as a little 
 space saucer and you can very easily obtain nitrous without a problem.
  
  The graphics are also on point on this game, although Ill admit 7 on the PS3 has much better graphics, 
 the 360 version is just as great. It would be really fun if they had this version on the arcades... another 
 new feature will be none other than Xbox Live... now that Halo 3 is out, not a lot of players are 
 on the other games but this game is really fun online... however some advice, if you win the world 
 explorer easily, dont think you will be able to own online... the racers on here are insanely skilled. 
 I'd recommend spectating them and watch them race (inside the car) to learn how they do it.
  
  Pretty much though, this game is worth the $14.99 (used) or $19.99 ... cheapest game out for 
 the 360 and the money is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawn7324
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 20, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game is old i picked it up and gave it a try. This game has a very Arcade racing 
 game feeling to it. the fact that you can go 600 mph just makes the game pretty cool, well since 
 the game is old not much people play this game, multi-player doesn't have a lot of people on it, 
 but the hardcore players that still play keep this game alive, and you can get into a game any 
 time of the day, overall its a fun racing game, but compared to whats available to now shouldn't 
 get any attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammy_boom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is definately fun the as you progress through the races and the excitement of hitting 
 the triple nitrous on the straightaway to barely become victorious is a fulfilling feeling, but 
 the game becomes a bit repetitive after you easily win the first 50 races. Few races in the basic 
 route are all that challenging, and the goal of winning in all the cars or clearing the areas becomes 
 more of a task than a source of entertainment. I felt as if I needed to clear the areas because 
 i would miss out on something important but I was disappointed at some of the rewards. Some of 
 the cars served absolutely no purpose to me because the drifting system for them was too sensitive, 
 but that is my own perception and applies to my technique. The cars also are not all that unique 
 as all have the same body and either have different colors or sponsors or slightly different body 
 work in the higher classes.
  
  When the later levels are finally unlocked the game becomes much more of a challenge as a race 
 requires the driver to make few mistakes to emerge the winner. The special car types are pretty 
 cool to use and adds another element to the game, and can be very difficult at points.
  
  The multiplayer levels i found too challenging too effectively race my opponent because the screen 
 was too small to handle the inclines which caused many bumps into the wall. Not having other players 
 in the mix did not do justice to the game either, as the rush of passing multiple cars disappeared.
 
  
  I thought Ridge Racer was good clean fun, but the overall feeling was that I didn't accomplish 
 much, but the online option adds a whole other world to the game as opponents who are human are 
 much more fun to race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  This game is a fast paced arcade racer, it is the 6th of the ridge racer games and the 1st to come 
 to a microsoft platform.
  
  The game has no major story to tell of, the world xplorer mode see's you race through arount 200 
 races in multiple vehicles. The aim is to unlock all the cars and all the different sponsors for 
 those cars which total to over 100.
  
  The game is played very differently to other driving games because this game relies on drift, the 
 way yoy drift is you turn into the corner, let go of the accelerator and tehn reapply it and control 
 your drift, This is a new style of turning in driving games and i have to say i prefer it to others. 
 I don't think it would suit racing simulations liek Grand Turismo where the aim is about realism 
 but it works well in this instance. I also like the addition of nitrous in this game, the way you 
 get nitrous is by doing drifts and the longer teh drif is and the more speed you get whilst doing 
 that drift teh more nitrous you will accumilate. With the nitrous you have 3 bars which you have 
 to fill and you can use them 1 at a time are all at once. Using them 1 at a time will save the 
 rest for when you need it later but using them all at once will give you unreallistic speed whic 
 leaves your opponents in your dust. I feel the nitrous bring a new element of statergy to the game, 
 deciding when yo use it and how much to use. The races are against 1 -14 cars and it is your standard 
 1st to the finish race, this is teh only down point i see in this game. I would have liked a little 
 more variety, you know some extra modes liek elliminator or some type of mode where you get points 
 for drifting and the person with the most points wins. All the cars are unlicenced but teh sonsors 
 of the cars all seem to be old konami games which is pretty cool. The cars have also got all their 
 own statistics ranging from what their max speed is to what type of drift they do. There are 3 
 types of drift which tells the driver how many points you get from the drift and how easy the drift 
 is to control. The online mode is pretty cool too, you can play upto 13 opponents but i have to 
 say after around 8 cars on one track online the game does tend to get a little laggy and loses 
 all fun. The Graphics are pretty smooth for a release title and there seems to be no lagg even 
 though the game is very fast paced which i am very impressed with. The game doesn't quite look 
 as good as Project Gotham 3 but the visual is in the sam quality. The sound of the game is pretty 
 impressive too, the cars sound realistic and where necesarry very powerful. I also liek the guy 
 who talks to you thoughout the race, he give you tips and tells you things like when other players 
 are using their nitrous. The music is not to my taste although there is an option that lets you 
 use the music from your 360's harddrive which is prety cool. Too bad i can get music from my mp3 
 player or pc to work with the ingame tracks but i guess i could just play it though my xbox and 
 turn the ingame music off.
  
  So in short this game is a great, fast paced arcade racer where the main aim is to outdrift your 
 opponents. I think it is one of, if not the best racer i have played and would reccomend it to 
 any one. Also this game has been out a long time is you should beable to find it very cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubear666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Just what I expected really when I bought it. An Average arcade racing game. This game had nice 
 graphics and very nice looking cars. Shame none of them are actually real licence cars but what 
 do you expect from an arcade racer. The levels were nicely designed and the main single player 
 game is huge. It takes a while to get used to this drift racing style as you cannot tackle a corner 
 hard you gotta drift it but it makes a nice change. The only irritating thing is the guy whi keeps 
 telling you when you got a spedd boost and when you use it. Luckily you can turn him off though 
 so no complaints there. Not quite NFS but a nice change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2007 1:26 am PT
Review:  This game delivers the awesome drift racing spirits once again !!!
  The whole gameplay machnism may gets old a little bit, but I still enjoy this game very much.
 
  The graphic although it's not the prettiest, it still deliver neat, clean, and beautiful environment, 
 with solid 60 fps.
  The control is almost the same as before, but I do feel it gets more technical, you need more attention 
 on balancing your car when in-and-out corners.
  The nitros system which is originally from the psp version, just add a lot of fun, and it evolved 
 into you can choose to release one at a time or all three nitros at the same time.
  I've been a Ridge Racer fan since Ridge Racer of PS in 1995, and I've play every one of it, this 
 game just deliever plain fun, you can just relax and drifting drifting drifting ......
  I have fuun playing this game I hope you 2 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoXPG
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  RR6 is a fantastic arcade racer. I say arcade because it the cars are fictional, it uses exaggerated 
 drift style racing, you can't crash, and there is no damage. If you prefer licensed cars and a 
 more simulation type racing experience, you should check out PGR3, as RR6 is pure arcade fun.
 
  
  RR6 has several modes to play, including single player race, Online battle mode, and the World 
 Xplorer mode, which is great fun. There are 4 class of cars plus a special class. There is an increase 
 in speed with each class. The special class of car are unique cars from big boxy types to UFO Pac 
 Man types. You start the game with only a handful of cars. You can download several from the XBOX 
 market place, most if not all are free. As you progress in the World Xplorer mode, you will unlock 
 cars and tracks to play in the single user mode. To unlock certain other items and achievements 
 you will need to also play the Single Player mode, and win games in every class with no nitrous. 
 Fortunately the Single Player mode keeps track of all these items.
  
  RR6 also features replays you can save, as well as a spectator mode in the Online battles.
  
 
  Graphically the game is fantastic, and the frame rate is always steady. The reflections and lighting 
 are first class and really show case the 360's power. Considering this was a launch title, it holds 
 up quite well. Namco did RR7 for PS3, and it features basically the same courses with a few new 
 ones thrown in. Graphically RR6 is comparable to RR7 and I wish Namco would do a RR8 for 360 as 
 I am sure they could eek out more power out of the 360 now.
  
  There are a couple of down sides to the game, but they are minor annoyances and don't detract too 
 much from the game experience. One annoyance is that you don't really crash in RR6. How can this 
 be an annoyance? Instead of crashing, you just sort of bounce around off the walls until you either 
 stop and straighten out or get hit and pushed back on course. If you don't drift correctly and 
 do miss the turn you will see the bounce I am talking about. Another annoyance is that in the World 
 mode some races are marked as no nitrous race, meaning you cannot use nitrous and are prevented 
 from charging your nitrous gauge. The rub is that the computer players are not always prevented 
 and you will see different levels of nitrous being used by the AI players. Sometimes they use it 
 right when you are about to claim victory and rob you from it. Not cool at all. The final annoyance 
 is the DJ that chatters during racing, wow does this guy not fit in a RR game. I don't know what 
 they were thinking when they used this guy as the DJ! Like I said these annoyances are just that, 
 and shouldn't keep you from enjoying the game.
  
  Although it is not touched on in the manual too much, and not marked on the back of the case, there 
 are several achievements to unlock. I found out by accident after I did a 360 spin in a race...
 
  
  If you are a RR fan, or like arcade style racing with lots of unlockables, you simply must buy 
 this game. Go on, get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Virtual_Erkan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Happy to see Ridge Racer back again in its 6th series. This game is absolutely fantastic. RR fans 
 will certainly love this game.
  
  Anyone who have played RR knows the game-play style which is different from the other racing games. 
 It is all about drifting. But within this series player will face new features in this one.
  
  First of all, the NO2 system has been added which adds even more speed to the game. All you 
 have to do is to fill the NO2 bottles by drifting. The longer and faster you drift, the quicker 
 you fill up the NO2. When one of the bottles is full, just hit NO2 button and your car will exceed 
 over its max speed. You can fire double NO2 which longer and powerful or fire up the triple NO2 
 which will give you the ultimate speed and faster drifting. While drifting with triple NO2, your 
 machine will leave a trail of flame from the drifting tires. This gives a nice fun to the players.
 
  
  Second, there are lots of cars divided into 5 classes and they get stronger as you up the class. 
 Every car in each class is divided into 3 types of drifting. Standard (normal classic drifting) 
 Mild (bad drifting but strong grip in corners) and Dynamic (cool drifting but bad traction on every 
 slight curve) . Player can choose their choice of driving by selecting one of these selections. 
 The cars are imaginative which is not from real life. They can be normal sport cars, coupes, muscles, 
 drags, trucks, hatchbacks and exotics. These are found from Class 1 to Class 4 but the Special 
 Class has unique cars like Audio System Jeeps, F1s, Luxurious and some look like spacecrafts. Though 
 they are very difficult to unlock them.
  
  Third the Story System has changed to World Explorer. There are over 100 races and you choose your 
 own race to participate in. You can race once or set a tournament of races that you have chosen. 
 If you finish all of the races in a route, you will earn prizes like new machines, body paint etc. 
 At the beginning, the World Explorer map could look small, but when you reach one of the three 
 final races, you will unlock even more different races and more map routes. At the beginning, you 
 had Basic Races, Reverse Charge Up Racers and No-NO2 racers. But then you will unlock, Advanced 
 Races, Expert Races and Duel Races which is very difficult to finish them. It will take days to 
 finish them but you will have lots of fun from racing. The racing courses are marvelous. There 
 are 30 different courses that you race in forests, seasides, city centers etc. Some are very short 
 but some are long. Each course has its own BGM and they are nice actually.
  
  My conclusion about this game is totally positive. Anyone who loves cars, speed, drifting, NO2, 
 should by this game especially the RR fans. You will be surprised with this game and you will not 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackBaldwin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  As most would say its the same old ridge racer nothing really has changed about the mechanics of 
 the game. The graphics look great the cars look pretty hot and the music is like ridge racer style 
 very accomplished. But I'm still trying to hold out for the day that ridge racer will return to 
 something like it was in R4 I loved that game and I musta played that game twenty or more times 
 before I finally retired it and moved on to other games. Sadly this game is just like all the others 
 I have played its interesting for a lil while but it doesn't really grab you and makes you want 
 to play it.
  
  Word of advice rent it before buying it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrgit2dagame
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  Now that the price has fallen to $19.99 new and a few dollars less for used it's well worth it. 
 I haven't really played much of the Ridge Racer series so the levels are new to me and the gampley 
 is easy and fun. For those that have been following the series I can see how it gets repetitive 
 for you. These tracks are somewhat the same as the PSP version. I like to unlock new cars and get 
 new achievments so it's good for ME. The graphics I think were good for when the game came out 
 and arent very bothersome even now. This game feels like it has a faster pace that that of PGR3 
 and Need For Speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Uhh it's still the same old ridge racer just like every single one of them. All you do is turn 
 drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn 
 drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, 
 turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, 
 turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, 
 turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, 
 drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn 
 drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn 
 drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn 
 drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, 
 turn drift, turn drift, turn drift, drift, turn drift, It gets boring really fast. I don't think 
 this is even worth a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeteorNess
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 has everything a game needs to have to survive in the tough competition of gaming. 
 Nice music, nice graphics, everything is really neet. But they forgot the gameplay, it can be very 
 bornig if you only play on automatic, because the only thing you''l probably do is hit the accelerator 
 button then turn and/or drift. Manual makes it more exciting. It's not the best game out there, 
 but you'll surely be entertained. It's more an easy arcade game than a Xbox 360 racing game. I 
 would have been pissed if i actually had BOUGHT it. It's not worth 50 bucks... but you can still 
 rent it =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomasonfa
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  I've been holding out on my opinion on the game because I wanted to give it me full attention. 
 I had it for a few months now because I'm becoming a bargain bin shopper when it comes to some 
 360 games. I bought it for Wal-Mart for $19.99, for 360 games you can't beat that for a brand new 
 game. Anyway, after putting it in, I was little overwhelmed by how much the series has changed. 
 Here's a little back story, I was a fan of the game when the PSX came out in '97. This game was 
 a the reason I wanted (and got) a PSX on day one. The graphics, back then, were so detailed and 
 Sony was praising themselves by saying that the game would surpass all others by having no pop 
 up polygons. 30 to 60 frames per second. When the intial map of races come up, you will see all 
 of the races that are avilable via, World Xplorer, there are over 200 race variations. At first 
 I didn't like this at all because I hated seeing all the work that I was going to have to do to 
 beat this game. This changed after playing because you can play straight through to get to the 
 end or you can follow a web of races; which can yield more cars if you close the loops the web 
 makes. If you were EVER a Ridge Racer fan, I say you should get this at $19.99. It is worth that 
 much. If you remember anything that you liked in the original then you should get this. It even 
 may give you flashbacks when you try some of the tracks which are revised versions of the original. 
 And like later Ridge Racers, e. g. RR 2 there is multiplayer, on and offline. Online is tough because 
 no one but the HARDCORE plays it and so far everyone I raced has been from Japan and I get SMOKED. 
 If you are considering this game, this should be a deciding factor, do you remember the first time 
 you got the angel car and beating the Diablo. Or breaking under 40 seconds on a track? Has the 
 helicopter landed on your car? If you know what I'm talking about then you have play RR maybe as 
 much as I have, and you so get this game. Because there are a lot of memories here for me but it 
 added enough changes which makes it worth $19.99.
  
  NOTE: EB games sells it used for even cheaper, so go pick it up, it will bring RR fans some memories. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtamaster2005
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:09 am PT
Review:  You would think with the new gen system they creators of Ridge Racer.. would change a few aspects 
 of the game.. well you would be disappointed. Ridge Racer 6 is nothing but the same old game, pretty 
 much the same graphics and annoying gameplay, with annoying voice overs and much more. Ridge Racer 
 6 came with my XBox 360.. so I didn't buy it.. basically it was FREE... no wonder they can't sell 
 that thing. I haven't played may games on XBox 360.. but I've played a lot of games in my life 
 and Ridge Racer 6 is one of the worst games.. yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjwickstrom1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is a highly addictive game, and in my opinion the best game in the Ridge Racer series, 
 once you get into the World Xplorer mode. Gameplay-
  Ridge Racer 6's gameplay is decent, but with a little more effort by Namco it could be much better. 
 One of the problems with RR6's in game play is that when you overdrive, or mess up entering a turn, 
 your car goes straight into the wall, bouncing off of it at a 90 degree angle the entire way around, 
 rather than it rim riding around. Also, the AI is extremely slow, and they always run a specific 
 line on the track, even if you're in the way of it. That means that sometimes in a turn they'll 
 slam you into a wall in their efforts to maintain their line. I also don't like Namco's concept 
 of no car damage in the game. I don't want major damage affects, but some tire marks, scrapped 
 paint, and cracked windshields due to rough racing would be nice. For these reasons, I gave RR6's 
 gameplay a 7 out of 10.
  
  Graphics-
  Ridge Racer 6's graphics are outstanding for a game that was released with the launch of the Xbox 
 360, but like with most every game there's some little details that could be made to improve them. 
 By this I mean more realistic looking tracks, so they look more believable even though you'd never 
 see a race on a track like it in real life. I do have to say that the cars look very colorful and 
 realistic, along with the water effects are on the tracks that cross vast bodies of water. For 
 these reasons, I gave the graphics an 8 out of 10.
  
  Sound-
  RR6's sound is above average compared to most games of it's kind, but like with it's gameplay and 
 graphics, it could be better. The game soundtrack is pitiful. The soundtracks and sound effects 
 in Namco's arcade classics like Pacman and Galaga are better. In fact, one of the songs in the 
 game is the Galaga theme song. The soundtrack is so bad, that most of the time I just use the custom 
 soundtracks that I have saved on my 360. I do have to say that the game's sound effects, like the 
 cars motors and screeching tires. Becuase of these reasons, I gave RR6's sound an 8 out of 10.
 
  
  Achievements and difficulty-
  Currently I have 16 achievements out of 36 total in Ridge Racer 6 for 216 gamerpoints. Most of 
 them are secret achievements. To find out how to unlock them, check out achieve360points. com's 
 achievement guide for the game. Most of the achievements are time consuming, but once you get to 
 the point where you can unlock them they're easy to get.
  
  Closing comments-
  All in all, Ridge Racer 6 is a decent game, but because of it's outdated quality and value, I don't 
 recommend you buy it, unless you're really into racing games or the Ridge Racer series in general. 
 The only reason I own the game is becuase I got it as a Christmas gift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braderz13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  This game is the first game i have played since i got the xbox christmas morning. Gameplay: The 
 gameplay is brilliant and can have you hooked for hours. The drifting is excellent and can have 
 you turning round them corners like a demon on wheels. Graphics: The graphics are so good its unbelievable. 
 You would actually think you were there. Every little detail is in there and leaves nothing to 
 the imagination. Sound: There are good sounds such as the car noises and the music is brilliant. 
 You can also import your own tunes to the game and listen to them when your driving.
  
  I would advise that people who are ridge racer fans this is a must buy
  If your not a fan then 
 your missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lostleeGC
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  My first game for the 360, which I got as part of the deal when I bought was Ridge Racer 6. I had 
 fond memories of the really early ridge racer games and I expected to have a really good time playing 
 this game, which surely was going to be great, having proved its pedigree over the years on many 
 different gaming platforms and now on a next-gen console.
  I started the game up, pac man of course! and onto a quick race. The graphics jumped out on me 
 straight away and I though, impressive. The sound was crystal clear and catchy as was the cool 
 voice over guy :p
  The FX was not exactly very clear but it just goes downhill from here on I am afraid.
  
  I 
 quickly realized that the game was ALL about drag/drift style racing, which in theory sounds freekin 
 awesome but the execution in this case, is dyer. After your first 2 races you will be bored, really 
 bored. Everything is the same, you do not require breaks in this game, all you do is drift around 
 to the corners to earn nitrous boosts which again sounds good but the reality is the opposite. 
 The Boosts are just flashy and are barely effective anyway in the actual racing. Then again these 
 boosts are just about the only way to take over another car of the same class.
  
  EVERY race is the same, there is no variation whatsoever and even different modes in this game 
 are boring, even after playing 2 player I was bored stiff after 2 races.
  The game play is awful, smashing into a wall at 300 MPH will result in... nothing, not a dint, not 
 even an impact sound, in-fact all the FX is bad. Go down a 1000 yard straight and do 5 360 degree 
 turns at 300 MPH is just as fast as driving in a straight line, of course you will get your amazing 
 +10 mph nitrous boosts faster this way.
  
  It is the same thing, constantly. Drift, nitrous, drift. Whoever gets the lead at the beginning 
 will win because it is nion impossible to overtake a non CPU player as crashing into walls or other 
 cars does nothing, absolutely nothing.
  
  I would not recommend this game to anyone, even the hardcore Ridge Racer fans I'd say to you guys, 
 rent this game and take it back an hour later.
  
  Average at best, I'd give it 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sirpimps
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 11:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay was alright. Controls were okay, but the sliding to turn really annoyed me at 
 times. Game seemed really hard??
  
  Graphics: Not too impressed with the graphics, but could have been because I was playing on a SDTV. 
 Sound: Sound of the engine reving up was nice. Announcer is sooo annoying, makes you want to turn 
 off the game and chuck it out the window.
  
  Value: Game is fun overall if you get used to the weird controls. Online isn't all that fun because 
 of lack of players.
  
  Overall: Some fun to be had, but not as much as expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  After playing many hours of Ridge Racer 6 now I have drawn some conclusions about it and found 
 one or two annoying factors that stand out a bit but even so the game is still fun to play. One 
 thing I will say immediately if you dont have XBL then think twice about this one as a solid purchase.
 
  
  Graphically this game is nothing special, yes this is the best Ridge Racer has ever looked but 
 compared with other 360 titles it doesnt bode so well thankfully the game does look stylish so 
 it doesn't look awfully bad either. The environments look nice and quite varied for a ridge game 
 and they do a good job to portray depth on the tracks. The cars look nice but nothing too spectacular, 
 especially when you have games like PGR3 and Test Drive Unlimited to compete against.
  
  The sound is not too good sadly, the engines all sound very similar in tone with slight pitch changes 
 per class of car and size. The soundtrack is just an assortment of techno tunes that after a while 
 become annoying and some are horrid immediately. The in game announcer is the worst aspect in my 
 view, it gets very annoying hearing the same phrases multiple times through a race and how many 
 times can one person say Nitrus and it not get on your nearves.
  
  Gameplay wise the game is classic ridge with NOS for good measure, the game plays well and is very 
 addictive with its now well known drift happy slide around everything style. The World Xplorer 
 mode is truely massive with approx 280 events to complete in total ranging in skill and type, the 
 only shame is there are nowhere near enough tracks to fill out that many events so you can only 
 really play this one is bursts as it will get dull if you do play it hardcore. My main and major 
 gripe about this one is the CPU AI, in the early races they are a push over then as you proceed 
 instead of making them drive smarter or more aggressive instead they seem to get unlimited shots 
 of nitrus that they can fire at will with no need to charge which can be insanely frustrating seeing 
 as how you have to build yours by drifting and there is nothing worse than a CPU car letting off 
 a NOS shot then a tripple NOS straight after while on the last corner giving you no chance at all 
 of even getting close to them. I found that this happens alot in the later events and it can and 
 does try your patience alot.
  
  Overall I would say Ridge Racer 6 is not a bad game but not everyone is going to enjoy this one 
 and possibly give it a rent or find it cheap before diving in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Predak-
Rating: 4.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  horrible, at full speed you don't even feel like your going fast at all, perfect and sleek graphics 
 may make it look nice in screenshots but doesn't give you a feeling of intenseness at all. Supposed 
 to be a drifting game but the drifting has to be the worst part of it, im going 120 mph, i do a 
 full skidding 360 and my car is still going 120 when i'm done! The cars just seem to feel extremely 
 light and boring, they all look like hot wheels! Probably the most annoying part of the game is 
 that announcer guy. He is just a big loser and has the dumbest voice i've ever heard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game ridge racer 6 isnt to bad of a game needs to change a little cause still looks the same 
 as all the others. The game play is ok not the best racing game ive played its pretty dull and 
 it can get boring a little easy. The cars in this arent official cars as ridge racer has never 
 had them maybe they will some day. The soundtrack is ok but better with your own music. There is 
 a mini game in this its pac man which is fun and thats why its worth getting but i wouldnt pay 
 &pound;40 just for that. If you have played ridge racer in the past you know what your going to 
 get there is a little change as of scenes in the game and graphics. check the game out you may 
 like it. but i think burnout revenge is the best racing game ive played on 360 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogkamarky
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all i love racing games i just got the mad catz wheel for my xbox360 and its great.
  
  Now thats said, This game is very arcade like racer and for people who like techincal simulation 
 and all that stuff you might not like it because the physics in this game are nowhere near a real 
 car and thats what i love that arcarde type feel, the framerate never ever drops which i think 
 is very important in a racing game reminds me of daytona usa in the arcades which is the only reason 
 i go to the arcades , to play the racing arcades! do yourself a favor buy the wheel and this game 
 which is like 20bucks. NOW!!!! you wont be disappointed 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurdyRubberX
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of my least favorites ever in fact I would much rather eat a gram of Mush 
 and hang myself while stuck in my own daze than play this cracker of a game. It is a shame that 
 other people who review this game have lead us to believe that there is any value in the time spent 
 playing this game but believe me when I say stick to any other racer on any platform even if it's 
 a two button controller to play it because the only thing about this game that will catch your 
 I is the view and absolutely not the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _seVen_
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up recently, for a very good price, 30 bucks.
  I didn't have high exceptions - I heard Ridge Racer is not what it used to be.
  Silly me, thought 
 Namco changed the gameplay.
  
  Hell, they didn't! Thank god.
  
  Ridge Racer, is, a racer. Arcade, for sure. The thing about Ridge Racer is that, it's not mainly 
 about the cars. Or the ideal path on the roads.
  It's about drifting . Brake+Turn+accelerate. If you're using the barakes to slow your car down, 
 you're most likely doing something wrong.
  
  The learning curve for a non ridge-racer might take a few minutes, but once you get the hang of 
 it, it gets extremely addicting and fun. Basically, you'll be able to take every single hairpin 
 turn drifting at 200+km/h. It's really amazing.
  
  Surely, it's not for everyone. Some might find it ridicilious, that you can initiate a drift so 
 easy. Or, some may even criticize the game for not including lincenced cars. I don't think it's 
 a problem. Would you really like to see Ferrari F40's, BMW M5's doing crazy drifts like that? I 
 doubt. Plus, the cars are designed very neat in the game, they look really impressive.
  
  Now, the graphics. In one word: solid. The framerate never drops under 60. Graphically, the game 
 is pretty plain, there's no real 'eye candy', but the cars are very detailed, just like the enviorment. 
 The lightening effects are brilliant, just like the motion blur, which isn't overused in this game (not 
 like in.. ahem.. NFS) .
  
  The biggest problem of the game is the sound. The music is great, very japanese, but likable for 
 everyone. However... there's a narrator. During the races... he won't shut up. And he has VERY 
 limited amount of things to say. It's really frustrating after a while. The car sounds are OK, 
 nothing special.
  
  The gameplay, as I mentioned, is brilliant, but unfortunately it can get a little dull after a 
 while. The career mode covers 200-something races, which is a massive amount. But all you really 
 do is just drift through these tracks, or race against the clock. Unlock cars, tracks... and that's 
 it. And, unfortunately, there aren't many tracks to choose from...
  
  Overally, a very decent game, and one of the best Ridge Racers I ever played. Although it failed 
 to top RR Type 4, that's not neccesserely meaning it's a bad game. RR T4 was, and is, one of the 
 best racers around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elementskate14
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 23, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 was 1 of the xbox 360's first games , and is very disappointing. The Graphics look 
 more like a xbox game and are very dull. The gameplay is very arcade like which for some people 
 that have never played the game might not like and fans of the Ridge Racer series may enjoy but 
 the gameplay gets very boring and very old fast, since their are a very limited amount of tracks 
 to race on and that annoying spokesperson says the same things over and over again throughout the 
 game and makes you want to tell him to shut up everytime he talks. Also, the online play isnt all 
 that fun but is at least the funnest part of the game. There are a few things that Ridge Racer 
 6 has that you will enjoy like achievement points and now you can buy the game for very cheap! 
 Overall Ridge Racer defantely let me and probably lots of other people down but fans of the series 
 might get a kick out of the game that may last for a little bit... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riot429
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer has is one of the oldest racing games out there and is still up and running today. 
 The series has been lacking since the last few games. The PSP Ridge Racer was great tough. The 
 PS2 one however was average.
  This Ridge Racer is spose to be bringing back the old Ridge Racer Gameplay. Which is techincaly 
 impossible because no one wants to play the stiff way again, like we saw in Ridge Racer 1. The 
 arcade versions of Ridge Racer are jesus good though. I just bough this game two days ago and after 
 playing it for 2 hours a day. I completed it. Every single bit.
  
  The Gameplay is pretty much standard for a Ridge Racer game. It isn't Burnout. Which is pretty 
 much a understatement, becuase all Burnout is, is a copy cat of Ridge Racer they just put crazy 
 crashes in there. My only complaint about Ridge Racer 6 is they still haven't taken a hint. People 
 want damage or at least I do.
  
  The Graphics are good, racing games can always stand to have great graphics becuase there really 
 isn't much going on there. Just take Gran Trusimo for example. Really good looking game, but it 
 is on the PS2. The Sound is good. It does a good job on brining you back to the old Ridge Racer 
 games. Which is a good thing cause it show they went for making the orginal fans happy.
  
  Overall the Ridge Racer 6 is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 10, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Wonderful visuals and sound effects, very well done drift racing, very low price.
  
  The Bad: You have to drift well to win, announcer can get annoying, no collision detection.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  There are a lot of racing games to choose from on the Xbox 360, but Ridge Racer 6 defines itself 
 with impressive visuals, a solid single player mode and the best form of drift racing out there. 
 It may look like a basic and generic racing game, but with it's focus on drifting, it's much more 
 unique than you think. The game doesn't feature licenced cars or lots of customization features, 
 but it does feature basic racing done well. To win a race, you have to perfect drifting on sharp 
 turns or you'll bounce off of walls and slow down considerably. It doesn't take long to get use 
 to drifting, but it does take a while to perfect it. The lack of collision detection can be irritating, 
 but it really doesn't lower the enjoyment level of this very well done game much. The visuals are 
 some of the best that any of the 360 launch titles had to offer and the extremely low price of 
 $20 new makes this a must buy for gamers needing another 360 games. The announcer commenting on 
 how you are doing in game can get annoying after a while, but a lot of his comments are funny and 
 worth listening to at least once or twice. Overall, Ridge Racer 6 is a very enjoyable racing game 
 that's cheep and worth checking out if you want something different in your racing games.
  
  Gameplay: Basic racing with drifting gives the game an old-school arcady feel, but it's still 
 very enjoyable.
  
  Graphics: Very well done visuals show off what the 360 can do.
  
  Sound: The announcer can annoy, but the sound effects work well in the game.
  
  Value: It's 
 $20 new, so it's one heck of a value for a 360 game.
  
  Final Thoughts: If you like racing games, you should at least gives this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxferrarif50
Rating: 6.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  After five minutes of playing this game, the first thought to come to mind was I can't believe 
 this game is a next generation game . Prior to posting this review, I noticed this game getting 
 high scores from other reviewers. Are they for real?
  
  A few minutes into this game, I noticed how boring the car models were and, how boring the game 
 is. The tracks are nice and, the added touches such as seeing aircraft fly over is also a plus. 
 Aside from that, nothing else.
  
  Whatever the price of this game is going for, it isn't worth it. I was going to buy this game at 
 1/3 of it's original cost. After playing it, I'm saving my money. Save yours too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kai_Ozu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  I had so much fun with this game that I played though the world tour mode twice. It has 400 hours 
 of game play if you want to go after all the achievements (the last 2 achievements are extremely 
 hard.) The music is also one the bigger draws to this game and if you like acid jazz. The online 
 mode allows up to 14 players but has some issues with the pc connection to listen to your own music, 
 other then that it works really well.
  
  So if youre into old arcade racing games from 10 years ago, get this game NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillytheDeviant
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so there is a little back story that I have to tell first before I get to the actual review 
 of 'Ridge Racer 6'.
  
  Back when the 360 games first came out you expected to pay $50 + for a brand new title. Everything 
 on the 360 was that way. I just so happened to encounter someone who had two 360 games to get rid 
 of. Call of Duty 2, and Ridge Racer 6. Because I like to jump on any good deal I can find I announced 
 that I'd pay $25 for each game. Sold. The games were mine. Now, I had little interest in Ridge 
 Racer before this purchase. It was just a good deal and I couldn't pass it up. Now things have 
 changed.
  
  Ridge Racer 6 has turned out to be a great racer from the team at Namco. First, it has to be one 
 of the best looking games I've played on my 360 so far. The scenery, and the vehicles all look 
 fantastic!
  
  Now, I know it's not about the graphics and more about how the game plays. Well, how does the game 
 play? It plays great! Some of the best control I've seen in a racing game in a long time. Everything 
 is s precise so when you hit that corner, and you have to engage in a drift you can easily control 
 it. Just pray that you are good at controlling and can get yourself out of the drift or else you 
 might be tasting the wall and losing that 1st place finish.
  
  How about the game modes? Ridge Racer 6 has what they call the 'World Xplorer' mode. You are shown 
 this grid, and you get to select from a huge number of different routes to take. Completing certain 
 areas unlocks additional cars, and eventually you'll be driving differant classes of vehicle. Things 
 start out easy, but then the difficulty raises as you begin to drive faster vehicles.
  
  There are also online modes, and of course 2-player splitscreen.
  
  The sound in Ridge Racer 
 is another fantastic thing about the game. The cars sound... well exactly like how an extremely 
 fast car should. Each race is accompanied by some great techno music. It really fits the speed 
 of the game, and each track is quite entertaining.
  
  Now here is something that some may like, and other may not. There is an announcer who likes to 
 shout pretty much anything during the race. He comments on the nitrous that you use, that the AI 
 uses. He comments on what place you are in, the collision you just encountered, the final turn. 
 Everything!
  
  I could see how some might find this annoying, however I seem to enjoy it. There is actually quite 
 the variety in the differant things he says and this doesn't make it seem too repetitive. Now, 
 after about 6 hours worth of gameplay I've heard pretty much everything he has to say but it still 
 is no where near annoying.
  
  So... I think that about covers everything about Ridge Racer 6. It's a fantastic racer. I think 
 many will overlook it because of PGR, or NFS, or even the upcoming Forza 2 but I really think you 
 shouldn't. It's a fantastic race title that you will enjoy. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattista
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The most advice i can give for this game is don't buy it.
  
  While the drifting and racing can be quite fun, once you have raced over and over and over again 
 you start to gat bored. The graphics are pretty good and the cars look great but the crashes in 
 Ridge Racer 6 are not very realistic. The whole game is just simply repetitive racing. There are 
 no car upgrades or big crashes and it has no real storyline.
  
  You would be better off getting one of the other racing games like:
  
  PGR
  Most Wanted
 
  Burnout.
  
  You would really regret buying Ridge Racer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tednacho
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  It's Ridge Racer! It's been an arcade racer since its inception. Does anyone not remember any other 
 RR game, dating back to the PSX? Every single game in the series (including Ridge Racer IV, the 
 most simulationy one yet) is still an arcade racer; meaning, it will be easier to steer and do 
 power slides and win races than in games like GT. That is what this series is known for, so don't 
 think it will be anything but an arcade-style racing game with some forgettable techno in the background 
 (and a fairly annoying announcer) .
  
  Having said that, this is a great game. It's a lot of fun and easy to start playing imemdiately. 
 The Live aspect of it (world time and multiplayer) is fun too, and it's cool to see where my time 
 attacks ranked against the rest of the world.
  
  Graphics look good, especially on an HDTV. I am playing it on a 32" LCD 720p set and it looks great. 
 The framerate never stutters, and the menu system is only mildly annoying (when you're navigating 
 through the Xplorer mode) . There isn't a lot of depth to it, but this isn't necessarily a negative 
 comment. Ridge Racer has always been about style and presentation and not about car customization 
 or driving simulation. It does what it does very well. Plus, can you go wrong with a $19.99 game? 
 Of course not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space_Godzillla
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is the next installment into the Ridge Racer franchise. Saying that this isnt a 
 port or another version of the series but rather a new sequel. Ridge Racer was originally on the 
 Playstation consoles and now Namco has decided to take it off the original platform and put it 
 on the Xbox 360. Did things turn out well? Well find out. The gameplay of Ridge Racer 6 is much 
 like any Ridge Racer games of the past. Namco has again deleivered one fast-paced, arcade type 
 racing that fans of the series have come to enjoy. With that said though this isnt a realistic 
 simulation racing game that one might mistake it to be. This isnt such a bad thing afterall as 
 Ridge Racer 6 sticks to the series roots in terms of handling. Basically racing around the track 
 and powersliding to execute a turn is the main focus in the game. Theres really no point in hitting 
 the brakes, all you have to do is let go of the gas and turn into a corner by powersliding. Many 
 of th fans of the series will come to recognize the simple formula and will feel at home with it 
 right away. If youve ever played the Ridge Racer for the PSP you remember the three nitrous bars 
 that were added to the game. The nitrous bars are back and included in Ridge Racer 6 aswell. This 
 time though you arent limited to using one blast of nitrous at a time but now the game allows 
 you to execute a double or even a triple nitrous boost. This adds a little something to the overall 
 mechanics of the racing but it isnt much of a drastic change. The Ridge Racer series is known 
 for its unlicensed, fantasy styled cars and its no different here. Ridge Racer 6 contains up to 
 130 cars that are broken up into classes. There are 5 classes in all with class 1 being the slower 
 and the faster is class 4 although there is also a special class that contains some weird futuristic 
 type cars that are by far the fastest. Most of the cars are unlocked in the World Xplorer Mode 
 which contains up to 200 races in a form of a graph. Races in this mode may contain different variations 
 such as no nitrous boost or reverse race. Most of your tme will be spent in the World Xplorer Mode 
 as it gets sorta addictive as you want to unlock more and more vehicles. The problem is those 200 
 races are stretched out on the 31 tracks available in the game so it does get repititous as any 
 racing game. Besides that theres also split screen with up to two players on the same consoles, 
 a single race mode which is basically instant action where you choose a car and track of your choice 
 and you get into a race. Theres also a Global Attack Mode where you can race against other peoples 
 ghost through Xbox Live and compete to see who can get the best time on each track. This is a pretty 
 cool mode for the competitive people but youre most likely to get knocked out by people from Japan. 
 The graphics may have worried some into thinking that this game doesnt look really next-gen . 
 I have to disagree with these people on the contrary the graphics are pretty impressive. The car 
 models are great as they reflect their enviroment off them, the road textures are especially nice 
 as you can see every little detail of them while youre racing. The background graphics are also 
 quite impressive from the sunset in the distance or the mountains, and fields of greenery. The 
 game uses some motion blur when the nitrous is activated to really give us that sense of speed 
 that many racers crave for. The physics on the other hand are again unchanged from past Ridge Racer 
 games. If you bump into a guardrail youll have to bounce off it a few times before you can get 
 back on track like some sorta weird bumper car, slaming into another car can result in the same 
 bumper car physics aswell. There also isnt any damage on the cars after a collision, but youve 
 come to expect that from the Ridge Racer franchise. Crowds in the stands are actually 2D sprites 
 though unlike the ones in PGR3. But that doesnt hurt the graphics much since you are to busy to 
 notice them, you can also see planes taking off in the airport levels or jets, helicopters flying 
 around in a distance which is a trademark in the Ridge Racer series. Youll also see advertisements 
 for other Namco games around aswell such as tekken or soul caliber series. Other than that the 
 menus look great and it really does look great at 60 frames per second but it isnt the best looking 
 racing game for the Xbox 360. The sound on the other hand can be more of a mixed bag than the graphics 
 were. Although the sounds of the tires screeching against the ground are quite nice theres not 
 a whole lot in terms of music. The techno pop music returns for Ridge Racer 6 and is pretty good 
 for the most part although some songs will make you turn on your custom soundtracks on. For those 
 who have played the PSP version of Ridge Racer might have remembered the annoying DJ. That being 
 said the annoying DJ makes a return to commentate on the race although its a pain to here him 
 everytime you turn a good corner or hit the nitrous, so its best to turn him off. Other than that 
 the cars sound pretty great and the music might interest a few. Finally Ridge Racer is online and 
 the presentation for Ridge Racer 6 is pretty good. Theres options for ranked, unranked and custom 
 matches or create a match. From the sessions Ive played everything seems good, with little lag 
 in most instances although there are games where you will find lag. The lag is due to one of these 
 two issues. Either someone you have your Xbox 360 connected with your Computer for the media thing 
 at the dashboard which is best to turn off so you can avoid lag or someones connection just sucks. 
 other than that Xbox Live can take races up to 14 racers although its best to stick with 8 but 
 its the host choice. Racing online in a number of matches can result in unlocking cars too so 
 take that for what its worth. Overall the Online portion of the game is great for Ridge Racer 6 
 and adds a ton of replayability to the overall package. So it basically goes like this if you are 
 into the realistic aspects of racing then Ridge Racer 6 isnt your type of game. If you are into 
 the customization and street racing then again Ridge Racer 6 isnt your type of game. If you love 
 powersliding techniques and like a simple race and or a fan of the series for the previous games 
 especially the PSP version then theres no hurt in picking this one up because youll most likely 
 loving it like you have before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmoxon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is basically a much shinier looking version of Ridge Racer for the PSP and features 
 much of the same qualities that made that game such a brilliant racer on the handheld. The arcade 
 physics and super fast gameplay are back and the nitrous feature that was introduced in that game 
 also makes a reappearance. This time though, not only can you unleash one nitro, but a double and 
 triple nitro that will send you rocketing even faster up the track.
  
  Anyone whos played a Ridge Racer game before (and particularly anyone who played the PSP version) 
 will know the key to racing in this game is all about drifting around corners (which builds up 
 your nitro gauge) as opposed to ever slamming on the breaks. This actually makes the game feel 
 unique when compared to pretty much all racing games (bar the brilliant semi-racer that is outrun 
 2) and also makes it one of the most enjoyable youll ever play, and thats the best thing about 
 this game, its fun, really really fun.
  
  One of the things I would always tell people about Ridge Racer on the PSP was how it was a racing 
 game that was just so damn enjoyable that even people who dont normally like racing games would 
 probably have a blast. The same goes for Ridge Racer 6, and in fact that statement is even more 
 true here. When choosing the world tour mode (the main chunk of the game) you must first complete 
 111 beginner races before you can complete in the much harder classes. Now for the Ridge Racer 
 expert this is actually a negative point, as most of these racers contain barley any challenge 
 what so ever, but as Ive stated its also a plus as Ridge Racer 6 is just so accessible for all 
 gamers, not just racing fanatics.
  
  Racing fanatics will be happy to know though that there are quite literally hundreds more harder 
 races to enter once the easier ones are completed and while the learning curve does perhaps start 
 off slightly too shallow, it soon becomes pretty much perfect. The game also features much more 
 variety than the PSP game, here having races that have specific rules that you must abide by, such 
 as ones where you cant use your nitros, or events where you can only fill your nitrous gage if 
 you drift while using a nitrous charge.
  
  Once you think you are good enough at, or have even completed the gigantic single player game, 
 you can then take it on to Xbox live and try your luck against the world (well, the 20 or so people 
 who are usually playing the game online at any given time) . When you CAN find a game, online play 
 is generally smooth and lag free, and because one of the few negative points about the single player 
 game is that the A. I. isnt exactly aggressive and seems to be on auto pilot at all times, it is 
 nice to race against opponents that seem to have a brain.
  
  The Xbox360 already has quite a few great racing games, but for me Ridge Racer is the pick of the 
 bunch, its just so fun, and fast and completely defines what an arcade racer should be about. Add 
 to that the fact that its truly a massive game, looks great, has your typically classy Ridge Racer 
 soundtrack and even comes with Pac-Man as a mini game. So come on... What more could you want from 
 the newest version of Namcos flagship racing title?.
  
  The good stuff:-
  World Tour mode is absolutely huge.
  Moves real fast.
  Great online.
  Slick and accessible
 
  
  The Bad Stuff:-
  Starts off too easy.
  Boring A. I.
  Very annoying announcer voice.
  May be a bit too much like the PSP game for some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigmadiode
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  this is the worst game i have ever played. It has way to easy to in to the a drift. It has an arcade 
 way of driveing style when you turn the thumb sitck the car turns way to easly. I have to admite 
 it does have good graphics and ok sound. The graphics are propbly the best part about this game. 
 The sound is stand able. I would first downlad the demo then if you like that rent it like i did 
 and then buy it which i did not. I did not mean i like the demo i just thougth that the full version 
 might be better buyt it was not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silicon_requiem
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  The Ridge Racer series has established itself as a "plug and play" sort of racer. You don't need 
 to know much about physics to immediately realize that the "drift" style of the RR series is ludicrous 
 and ridiculous; however it is entertaining. The Good the Bad and yes... the Ugly are below.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  1) Beautiful! The backgrounds are the real value of this game, you race through 
 some of the most in depth and gorgeous that you will find in any race game currently available. 
 You really feel like you are screaming through european alleyways and mountainous vistas. 
  
  2) No skill needed: this is to say that a beginner can play it, but it is not what I would 
 refer to as an unskilled game. The higher difficulty races are actually more difficult, some are 
 terribly difficult in fact, but what is so great is that even a young kid can play this game okay, 
 much better than a "realistic" racing game. This accessibility is a definite plus.
  
  3) Controls: the controls are simple but responsive, what you would expect from the RR series. 
 
  
  THE BAD
  
  1) No customization: this is more a concern for the whole series, but with the level of depth made 
 possible by the X360, I was hoping for at least some level of customization. Nothing terribly in 
 depth is needed, but racing games are much more long lived and provide a lot more replayability 
 when some level of customization is offered.
  
  2) Car designs: The car designs are actually kind of boring, I hate to say it, but they are. There's 
 not a lot of unique rides being offered here, and a lot of the cars are actually pretty useless 
 (some of the cars are obviously better than others) . Overall, the game suffers from a lack of expansive 
 car designs.
  
  THE UGLY (besides my consistant complaint that the RR dynamics are over the top in an almost goofy 
 way)
  
  1) Car designs: The car designs border on the ugly. Im serious, there are some really crazy looking 
 cars (however strange, I really wasn't struck with any sense of uniqueness even still, they were 
 just kind of strange and ugly looking) in this. This quality could be good or bad for a game, I 
 wasn't overly impressed with RR6's car designs, no matter how odd they made them. 
  
  2) Lack of car designs: an attractive line from the cover of the game is how many different cars 
 there are in the game, wow! Well, this is not exactly true, since most of the "different cars" 
 are just... well... different paint jobs (what the...?) . Its sad but true. Sometimes you will be 
 so excited because you just unlocked a car... only to find out you already have that car... now 
 you have it in blue. . . . . . woo hoo? 
  
  
  Overall this is a pretty good game. It is most definitely worth a rental, and if you are in to 
 the RR series, its worth owning. The environments are the best quality in my opinion, and thankfully 
 its simple enough that young and old alike can play it to some degree or another. In conclusion, 
 I recommend this game to fans of the series, to those who are not big RR fans, I would point towards 
 Project Gotham 3 for the X360 instead. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubleF
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  When I first turned it on I was expecting something closer to a simulation. I soon learned when 
 i came to my first turn that this game is an all out drift fest. The game would have been great 
 with some rx-7's, 240sx's, and ae86's, and japanese commentator screaming at the top of his lungs. 
 The game is very arcadey, I guess thats a good thing if your looking for something that is just 
 fun to play. The main thing I enjoyed about this game is the scenery. Very detailed with airplanes 
 and helicopters flying around, confetti when your crossing the finish line. I wish the crashing 
 in this game was alot better, it just feels like bumper cars. A game that has cars like this should 
 have crashes like Burnout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_God
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  So I decide to go shopping at the local computer store. whilst browsing through the collection 
 of Xbox titles and psp titles i found myself drawn towards the Xbox 360 display unit. the game 
 that was in demo mode was Ridge Racer 6. so i gripped the controller and had a play for about five 
 minutes. And in those five minutes the demo convinced me enough to purchase the whole game.
  
  I have no idea how I overlooked this title at launch this game is so underrated. The graphics 
 are great but its the game play that pulled me in. I love the drifting in this game well in any 
 game but ridge racer 6 has a more arcade feel to it. its not entirely realistic (well after seeing 
 the Tokyo Drifters on the TV series Top Gear I was Amazed) but is still an enjoyable experience. 
 
  
  i have only just started the game and am loving every second of it. its a good break from the ultra 
 realistic Project Gotham 3 and the destruction and mayhem of Burnout: Revenge. I have had a few 
 muti-player games and so far there has being no lag or any flaws in game play. I recommend giving 
 this title a rent before buying. Different people have a different taste in gaming.
  
  Overall this is a title worth checking out if you havent had the chance. It has great single player 
 that will take quite a long time to finish and a stable Xbox live multiplayer experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 21, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Ridge Racer 6 keeps the traditional gameplay that made the other RR games addictive. Just high 
 speed, intense racing. The only downfall to the game is that to be able to advance to the next 
 race, you MUST get first place. It can be frustrating, but it's not really that bad. The game starts 
 off fairly easy, as you'll glide through races, unlocking cars left and right, and then, about 
 100 races in, after spending hours racing already, you'll unlock the Special and Expert courses, 
 adding another 10-20 hours of racing. The game is huge. Over 200 races in all.
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing real looking, or amazing, but just sleek and pretty. Definately some of the 
 best on the 360. The car designs are cool and the tracks and backgrounds are beautiful.
  
  Sound:
  The announcer is annoying, but easily turned off. However, you can unlock Heihachi to 
 be the announcer :P The music is rave-a-licious as usual.
  
  Replay:
  Tons. Have been playing this game for about 20 hours now, and will easily have another 20 to go.
 
  
  Overall:
  A must own racer for the 360. I would even go as far as saying it's the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Have you walked passed a copy of Ridge Racer 6 on a shelf in a shop and wandered why this game 
 doesn't stand out? Why it seems not to be well known? How it seems to just be ... there!? That's 
 because Ridge Racer 6 is so plain and drab like it's predecessors (all 5 of them) it seems to just 
 keep popping up without notice. Despite the standard presentayion and less-than-magnificent name, 
 it is an above-average racing simulation bordering with PGR3. With some very nice cars on show, 
 each car speedy, sleek, shiney and seductive, and environments that get you pumped up with the 
 urge to race!
  Back in the past, some of you (I know I did) confused a Ridge Race game with a game called Rage 
 Racer (for PSone) , this game had all the same characteristics of Ridge Racer, but it just felt 
 too arcadic (I am using the word to say Arcade like) . Ridge Racer offers arcade style racing and 
 regular racing. 
  But with the name Ridge Racer 6, makes the series seem repetitive and weary, but all-in-all, Ridge 
 Racer 6 is a splendid drive while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Japanese_Jade
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is the lastest Ridge Racer game in its series. It takes place in the Ridge Universe 
 and you have to... (You guessed it) Race! I can't say I appretiated this game a lot. This game made 
 me feel more like dancing than playing it. The music was outstanding, I'd give it that. This game 
 has Dance and Electronica tracks to it. Unfortunetly, it only comes with less than 17 tracks (Unless 
 you want to spend Microsoft Points (80 each) for more in the Market Place; which is really worth 
 it if you like the game) . But thats not all I have to say about the game's sound, theres a racing 
 DJ! You can pick up to three once you unlock the other two. The Normal/default DJ is very encouraging 
 and funny. You feel like hes helping you win the races and relax. But after a while when races 
 tend to get harder, you'll be screaming at your High Definition Television for the DJ to shut.. the 
 F*ck.. up!
  
  Ridge Racer 6 has a different style of racing then other racing games. Its basicly focused on it 
 own actually. In other racers, you need to turn around corners or try different button combonations 
 to drift. In Ridge Racer 6, you drift naturally every single turn. This kind of style has been 
 used since the first Ridge Racer game came out nearly ten years ago. This kind of traditional style 
 is what mades Ridge Racer unique and loved by many fans. Ridge Racer 6 is very repetative if your 
 trying to beat the main story, "World Xplorer" mode. You can easily tell the AI is doing everything 
 to prevent you from winning. The game gets very hard when your half way finished with it (which 
 is going to be 235 races long) . Ai racers get all the Nitrous they wans without having to earn 
 it by drifting (which you are practicly dying over without over drifting into an accident, wall 
 banging, or encountering fender benders) . World Xplorer mode takes a while to beat and will require 
 you rent it at least twice if you really want to beat it. 
  
  The Cars in Ridge Racer 6 are well designed. They aren't based on your modern Ferrari cars, Lamborgini 
 cars, or other famous branded cars. They don't even call them cars in Ridge Racer 6. They are called 
 Machines. Each with there own unique design. There are many cars to be unlocked in Xplorer mode. 
 Cars can also be unlocked by playing online. There is a bit of a problem with the cars though. 
 Most of them are so big and the AI is so bent on not having you win, they tend to create Barricades 
 while racing (Cars racing side to side of each other) . When the AI does these "Barricades" in narrow 
 courses, it makes it almost impossible to win. Bumping into them makes it worse. When you make 
 contact to the Bumper of another car, your practicly increasing their but a lot and decrease yours 
 a lot as well. Bumping into another car can be fatal to an expert match so becareful.
  
  The achievements in this game are pretty time consuming and challenging. The easiest ones give 
 you the worst amount of points. For example, doing a 360 drift gives you 5 GamerScore. Although 
 there are 36 achievements in Ridge Racer 6, most of them are hard to achieve. For those Fast Gamerscore 
 people out there, this game is not for you.
  
  And finally, the moment you've been waiting for, lets talk about the funnest event (which is hard 
 to describe for this game) , the Online Multiplayer mode (Online Battle in Ridge Racer terms) . Hardly 
 anyone in the USA or speakes english plays this game. There too busy playing GRAW, Call of Duty 
 II, and everything else that appeals to the American crowd. Ridge Racer 6 is more of an Asian type 
 of game. You'll mosly find Austrialian Players (commonly) , Japanese Players (Always) , Korean Players 
 (Always) , and rarely people from other Countries such as the United Kingdom, France, and Germany. 
 The highest number of hosted rooms I've seen was 5. Don't even bother looking for a custom match 
 cause you won't find it. And hosting one would be a waste of time. If you want online Racing, Play 
 Need for Speed Most Wanted, Project Gotham Racing 3, or Burnout Revenge. There is a lot more rooms 
 in those games than 5. 
  
  Overall, Ridge Racer 6 is an adequate game. It may be a game worth buying for a minority of of 
 Xbox 360 racers but I would recommend the majority of Xbox 360 racers to rent it. I found this 
 game rather fun but frustrating as well. This game deserves, a 7.5 /10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyeCupid
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  If any of you out there liked the demo and are wondering if you should take the plunge into purchasing 
 this game, don't. Save the money for something better down the road. The wierd thing is, is that 
 I loved the demo! I thought it was great and couldn't understand why Ridge Racer 6 was experiencing 
 so much brutal verbal punishment. Well, after playing a couple hours of it I can definitely see 
 why.
  
  The gameplay is downright awful and that is the easiest way to explain it. It is unbelievably boring 
 and extremely tedious. The physics are terrible and there is no excuse for that in this next generation 
 of gaming. If you run into a wall, your car will sort of bump backwards and glitch into it until 
 you can successfully turn away from it. In the process your vehicle will slow down. Where are the 
 fireworks, glassbreaking, and paint scraping that should be here? The drifting gets old way too 
 fast and that's a shame since that is the entire gimmick to this game. It is way too easy to corner 
 around turns since if you drift you will automatically stay in the same spot all around the turn. 
 Nothing was done right in the gameplay section. 
  
  The graphics are not next-gen, but they aren't terrible either. They are just decent. The sound 
 though is terrible. It does nothing well and has an annoying announcer to add to the pain of the 
 gameplay.
  
  There is a lot to do in this game, but the problem is that you won't want to do it. There are plenty 
 of tracks but the game is so downright boring you won't want to even finish 5 of them. I tried 
 to like this game, but it just flat out isn't a good game. If you must have a somewhat satisfying 
 arcade racer for the 360, pick up Need For Speed: Most Wanted instead. Ridge Racer 6 will only 
 provide one of the most boring gaming experiences ever. 
  
  Stay away from Ridge Racer 6. This game is not worth a purchase. This game is not worth a rent. 
 This game doesn't even deserve a glance at in a gaming store. Even if you were given a copy of 
 this game and wanted to trade it in for store credit, you may not even want to do that. It would 
 just be too embarassing to be seen with this game in your hands. Stay away from this game and you 
 will be happy. I cannot stress this enough. Block it out of your brain or whatever it is that you 
 have to do. Just don't even come near it and all will be well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game has some fair graphics and some good framerates making it a fairly pleasing experience 
 in the graphics department. Featuring a good selection of Cars including PacMan in a space ship 
 adding some color and fun to the collection. As far as tracks go there should have been way more 
 as you progress through the single player the missions keep exploding into tons of races that tend 
 to be the same thing, different direction, different car class and different difficulty.
  
  This game features very simple racing controls that feel completlely Arcade like which is neither 
 a negative or a positive for the game. Overall this game is pretty fun and has online capabilities 
 to keep you busy. Once again though the single player gets quite old a lot faster than you can 
 complete everything they have to offer. Difficulty slowly increases from rediculously easy to insanely 
 hard near the last few races. All and all a pretty fun racing game that could have been much more 
 fun with some more variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 17, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect for any Racing fan. It's fun and never really loses it's charm. The tracks 
 are nicely detailed and you get a good since of speed. 
  The key to winning is drifting. You must master drifting if you hope to win in the world of Ridge 
 Racer 6. There are lots of cars to unlock and when you first start up the game you get to play 
 one round of Pac-Man. How can you not love that?
  
  The tracks do repeat or are just made longer but when you in the heat of the race it doesn't really 
 matter. You can save your best racers and show them off to friends and family. The game does have 
 some nice music and fits the game perfectly. The announcer will on you nerves but that is easy 
 to get over. As you go on, the game will get hard so it's best to try to win better cars to make 
 the hard races more easy. Other than that there is not much more expect for hours and hours of 
 fun racing excitement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lunar_Dragoon
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 16, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Worth a look as a rental, but not a game worth the price tag. It holds to the traditional Ridge 
 Racer series very well with the easy to use drift mechanics and easy to grasp steering. Where the 
 game does well in graphics and audio, it falls grossly short in on-line play. a select amount of 
 cars require on-line play in order to achieve them and your scores are only saved after you leave 
 a lobby (outside of the game locking up on you every 10-15 races) . Besides the cars which need 
 on-line participation to receive, the lobbies are horribly managed cause even the best of connections 
 the have a average of 3 seconds difference between racers causing confusion and frustration for 
 some. As stated above, good game altogether, with challenging A. I. in the extreme high end races 
 but still only worth a rental or two at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Attitude2000
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 15, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  It should be stated that I don't really have a recollection of playing any Ridge Racer since Ridge 
 Racer 4 for the PlayStation. I'm not really a fan of the series, as earlier in my life when I started 
 to gain a special interest in racing games, I wasn't a whole fan of the drift thing. It was like 
 begging to spin out. I'm still not into drifting, but I have learned to appreciate it.
  
  Why so much talk about drifting? Well, it's Ridge Racer; that's what sets it apart from any other 
 racing game. While other games do in fact have drift, none take it to such an extreme to the point 
 where the brake isn't even required. This game holds true to that formula and plays almost exactly 
 like the first ridge racer... which is good or bad depending on how you look at it.
  
  A lot of people say the next generation of gaming hasn't been ushered in with the games that launched 
 with the Xbox 360, as graphics don't seem to have improved much. First of all, if removing all 
 the graininess isn't some sort of improvement, you must be blind. After that, you may say there 
 aren't many more polygons. That's because when it comes to racing games, I believe the priorities 
 already lie in the cars: first your car, then your oponents', and then your surroundings. With 
 the capabilities of the 360, the surroundings in Ridge Racer 6 are awesome. I've only played a 
 few courses (I wanted to get this review in before I decided not to do it) , but they are amazingly 
 lifelfike and realistic. The extra texture space has made the surroundings just as pretty and detailed 
 as the vehicles. And with effects like the glow of headlights and the sun's reflections, the cars 
 weren't forgotten, either.
  
  The main mode is the Ridge Racer Universe, where you have to race, which unlocks other races in 
 this huge tree. As I stated before, I'm nowhere near through this, so I can't comment on it much 
 further. The sound is okay with its music, but I've been using my own. I like the way the cars 
 sound and how the force feedback is very responsive (slight rumbles when you go across cobblestone) .
 
  
  Granted, it's pretty average as far as racing in general goes. If you're a fan of Ridge Racer, 
 this game is for you. If you love racing games, then you must play this as well. Not really for 
 anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 12, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The steering is quite messed up , cars just spin out - out of nowhere , it has the bad 
 parts of arcade style gameplay , with the bad parts of simulation style 
  
  Graphics - Not nearly as good as project gotham , looks like an old xbox game. There also is no 
 inside view of the car , camera angle . 
  
  Sound - a bunch of car noises , most of the cars have the same sound , nothing impressive 
  
 
  value - i'm not sure about the multiplayer , i didn't touch it , if there is any , but I guess 
 it would be just an average multiplayer expeirence , if there was a revoulutionary multiplayer 
 mode i would tell you
  
  good tilt - fans of the series will like it , pac man loading screen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AqileOne
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 11, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  I never played any of the previous Ridge Racer games, and this is a very fun game, I am glad I 
 purchased it after playing the demo.
  It took awhile to get use to the drifting but once I mastered that I went online and had a lot 
 of fun with other racers.
  One problem was lag, but that was corrected by disconnecting my computer setting to none on my 
 360 and then online was great!
  I recommend this racing game to anyone who has racing games in their blood. Also you can download 
 extra cars for free and download different music, but those will cost you some M$ points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  This game delivers the awesome drift racing spirits once again !!!
  The whole gameplay machnism may gets old a little bit, but I still enjoy this game very much.
 
  The graphic although it's not the prettiest, it still deliver neat, clean, and beautiful environment, 
 with solid 60 fps.
  The control is almost the same as before, but I do feel it gets more technical, you need more attention 
 on balancing your car when in-and-out corners.
  The nitros system which is originally from the psp version, just add a lot of fun, and it evolved 
 into you can choose to release one at a time or all three nitros at the same time.
  I've been a Ridge Racer fan since Ridge Racer of PS in 1995, and I've play every one of it, this 
 game just deliever plain fun, you can just relax and drifting drifting drifting ......
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XENOmorph00010
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 30, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is the latest installment in the long-running Ridge Racer series and is also the 
 first to debut on a Microsoft console. While the series has been alive for some time, this installment 
 is easily accessible to both newcomers and veterans of this drift-crazy franchise. If youre new 
 to Ridge Racer youll likely get a kick out of the fast racing and hairpin turns, but if youre 
 a long-time fan of the series this will be basically the same game that youve been playing before 
 only with improved graphics. 
  
  The single-player mode of Ridge Racer-Ridge Racer Universe is a series of multiple racing events 
 that works a bit differently than most racing games. As you move to the right of the race map the 
 challenges will get harder and the cars youll unlock will be faster. You gain cars by completing 
 races that cover a certain section over the map; so if there are four races that form a section 
 together (kind of a connect the dots fashion) and you complete those four races youll get a car. 
 The idea works well and helps to encourage the gamer to take part in more events and branch out 
 across the map. 
  
  There are well over a hundred and fifty races within the Ridge Racer universe, and theyll get 
 quite tough if youre a newcomer to the series. Each race has a total of fourteen racers including 
 yourself and youll have to zip from fourteenth place to first place within the three laps allotted 
 in each race. The races themselves are relatively tight and its rare that youll be far behind 
 or far ahead of the competition, which is a nice touch for the games replays. The racing in Ridge 
 Racer 6 is pretty straightforward and theres nothing complicated about it. The catch to this is 
 that the game encourages insane drifts around the many hairpins scattered throughout the various 
 courses. Theres also a fairly unique nitrous system implemented into the game which allows you 
 to activate either singe, double or triple nitrous; the higher the nitrous level, the more power 
 and length to the burst from the nitrous. You are able to refill your nitrous meter by drifting 
 around sharp corners at high speeds, which is a nice touch. Its really a good thing Ridge Racer 
 6 has nitrous and exciting drifts, otherwise it wouldnt be anything more than a mediocre racer 
 with nothing to spice it up. 
  
  Now, as this Ridge Racer is on the 360 youre probably expecting the game to deliver great visuals, 
 which for-the-most-part it does. The car models look decent and feature a few logos from Namco 
 put in for good measure. The cars arent too detailed but they do look fairly sharp and the lighting; 
 while subdued, is used pretty well. There are several courses in Ridge Racer, but most of them 
 look pretty dull and lack detail. The environments that do have detail look pretty good, but they 
 dont stand out too much compared to other 360 games and give the gamer the impression theyre 
 playing a high-def Xbox game. Fortunately, Ridge Racer 6 does have a good sense of speed while 
 you drift around corners and the game has a smooth framerate throughout most of the races. It doesnt 
 look as good as other 360 launch games, but Ridge Racer 6 does look decent and certainly looks 
 better than Gun and Tony Hawk. 
  
  Sound-wise, Ridge Racer 6 just doesnt hold its own. First off, the music isnt in anyway good 
 and doesnt even fit the game that well. The soundtrack is composed of techno-like tunes that are 
 really slow-paced and in no way fit any of the excitement the game provides. Also, the DJ, hes 
 got to be the worst, most annoying DJ ever put in a game and sounds even worse than the announcer 
 from Perfect Dark Zero (thats pretty bad in case you havent guessed) . Luckily, you can turn the 
 DJ off, and trust me, after your first race youll be muting him as if your life depends on it. 
 As for the cars, they sound pretty average, none of them have a real punch to them but they sound 
 a whole lot better than the soundtrack and DJ. The nitrous sound effects sound good and have a 
 real oomph to them. But the only thing that stands out about Ridge Racers sound is its tire sound 
 effects, which are used constantly throughout the races amongst the drifting and are really some 
 of the best, most well-used youll hear in a racing game. 
  
  All things considered, Ridge Racer 6 isnt much more than an average, by-the-books racer. If youre 
 a long-time Ridge Racer fan and are looking for more of the same that youve gotten in other Ridge 
 Racers then youll probably be all over this installment. If youre new to the series like me then 
 this is as good a place as any to start, as youll probably get a good kick out of the drifts the 
 game offers. But other than that Ridge Racer 6 doesnt prove to be far beyond a solid racing game 
 with crazy drifts, different ways to attack nitrous and some good graphics for your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame_of_Nova
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  So I got this at launch and played it all the way and got all the achievement points for it, and 
 I can safely say this is the best racing game Ive played since F-Zero GX. First off I have to 
 tell you all how much I love the music in this game, its totally amazing and the mix they put 
 on for these tracks is amazing, it just sounds so damn good on a 5.1 set up or some really good 
 headphones. This game was by far the best launch title; it was the only one that really made me 
 want to play it all the way to the end. 
  
  Please PLEASE go get this game if you have a 360, its really a good time and its the best running 
 racer on the system at 60fps without any slowdown. Totally beautiful in 720p. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is the next step in the Ridge Racer series and is probably one of the better sequels 
 to date. The Xbox 360 version plays alot like the PSP version, but has much better graphics. The 
 game is bound to last you a long time and online multiplayer is fun.
  
  Gameplay: Fun and new. I usually play Racing Simulators like Forza or PGR but this was a very nice 
 suprise.
  
  Graphics: Solid, good in some areas but in others it can look downright bad.
  
  Sound: HORRIBLE ANNOUNCER, take him off, you won't regret it.
  
  Value: All Ridge Racer 
 fans buy. Others do not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MercuryFlash
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  This was the first racing game I played on my new 360, and I wasn't disappointed. 
  
  I have a quality standard TV (no HD) and the visuals are sharp. It lacks some of the detail of 
 PGR, but it still looks very good. Most importantly, the frame rate stays right at 60 FPS. I can 
 appreciate Namco leaving off a few graphical details here and there to keep the frame rate smooth. 
 After building experience playing RR on the PSP, the first cars in RR6 are a little slow and the 
 first set of tracks a bit easy (except for #7!!) but the difficulty and speed progress nicely throughout 
 the game. In the World Xplorer mode, you can basically plot your own path through the races, making 
 it less linear than it's PSP cousin. 
  
  The sound effects and music are great. The techno really suits the game play and it's a nice change 
 from mostly rock music in other racers. I really don't like the announcer in RR6, but fortunately 
 you can mute him or you can unlock additional announcers in the Xplorer mode.
  
  I hosted an online game last night for about an hour with up to 8 players, and the gameplay was 
 silky smooth. The framerate never dropped and there was no lag to speak of. Very impressive!
  
  Overall, Ridge Racer 6 is a great, smooth running arcade racer for those who love them!
  
 
  I'm a huge Burnout fan so I look forward to its release on the 360, and Full Auto as well, but 
 I appreciate RR6 as a great alternative when I feel like pure, simple racing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0CC
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  It only took me about 2 races to get used to the controls and after that it was all gravy. I have 
 to say that the Basic Routes are pretty easy. All the other routes were medium except for two races. 
 I think one was on special route, I don't remember the route number. The other one was Final Route 
 1, that route was pretty much about knowing the right time to nitrous and luck, especially the 
 way AI cars take the whole track up.
  
  I highly think anyone who likes arcade racing type style get this game. On the graphics on my HDTV 
 are amazing. The Audio is excellent as well, use the fiber optic cable to your surround system 
 to get maximum effect. The replay value is great especially online racing, you can race 16 other 
 online racers at one time which is Awesome!
  
  The achievements are pretty hard to achieve, but once you get them, you feel a sense of happiness 
 and makes you want to play more. The no Collision and nitrous is the most time consuming of all. 
 I have played between 40-50 hours total and plan on getting all 1000 points! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massote1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  This Game is GREAT!!! When I seen its trailer I had thought that this game was boring. I did not 
 like at all the way to handle those cars. It was kind of artificial for me. I am a gamer racing, 
 for that reason, decided to rent this game and try. The first race was hard, because this game 
 has its particular way to handle their cars. However, after 5 races I could not stop anymore, and 
 have to say that after show Ridge Racer for 3 friends, they bought it like me. I had never tried 
 Ridge Racer before in any console. If you want to have a special racing game. This is the GAME. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01casey
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Racing games should be simple, as a law. It shouldn't matter whether or not the cars, cities or 
 licences are authentic, as it isn't what gaming is about. Still, it seems impossible today that 
 a fun, arcade style racing game will grace consoles, ahead of the likes of Gotham and Test Drive. 
 Ladies and Gentlemen, I am proud to say that there is still hope for the arcade genre.
  
  And that's where Ridge Racer 6 comes in. Rollercoaster ride tracks, cars which get crazier as the 
 game progresses and licences which resemble old arcade games. RR6 has ressurected the once dead 
 arcade racer, and it's done it well aswell.
  
  Being an arcadey game, RR6 obviously plays and feels like it's been taken straight out of an arcade 
 cabinet and burnt onto a disk. Don't let this make you think that this game is short though. In 
 fact, it's second only to Oblivion in the lifespan factor. With over 100 races to complete in the 
 main career, RR6 isn't right at it's arcade roots. 
  
  The game also sounds and looks very arcadey, with retro techno tunes pumping in your ears and a 
 really irritating American commentater. The game also runs at 60fps, adding to the arcade feel 
 and making the game seem smooth and fast.
  
  The Xbox Live modes are basic really, and honestly, they aren't where the game excells. Whereas 
 the single-player frame rate is second to none, multiplayer chugs along at about a quarter of the 
 speed of it's single player companion.
  
  Unfortunatley, this game can only really be enjoyed in short sessions, as it can occasionally become 
 tedious and the soundtracks may make you feel ill. It's also a shame that it has to compete with 
 Gotham and Need For Speed, as it will be an uphill battle for it to beat those two on sales. So, 
 if you don't like the deep realism of Gotham or the over the top street racing of NFS: MW, then 
 I reccomend you give RR6 a try, but I can't be 100% sure you'll enjoy it. It's like Marmite: You'll 
 either love it or hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GinjaSy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 10:37 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer has been through a few changes since is beginning. The first major change was on the 
 PSP with the introduction of a Nitrous system charged through drifting. Now that Nitrous system 
 has been tweaked for the Xbox 360 version. Now you can build up to 3 tanks of Nitrous and then 
 use them either singly, as a double or a triple Nitrous boost. As you cannot generate Nitrous while 
 boosting the other tweak comes in the form of the 'Ultimate Charge' which is when your Nitrous 
 boost runs out but you use the excess speed from your boost to do a powerslide and generate more 
 Nitrous but at a much quicker rate. These additions make this a much more tactile game than previous 
 Ridge Racers, although at it heart it is still a pure arcade racer.
  
  There is over 200 races in the single-player World Explorer mode (the main game mode) with 5 different 
 car classes, each getting progressively faster. The Multiplayer is also very good, offering good 
 clean arcade purity; you shouldn't get many people smashing you off the track in this game. 
  
  Overall Ridge Racer 6 lacks the elegance and style of PGR3, but if you like your racing pure 
 and swift, then Ridge Racer can do no wrong.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  this game wuz garbage i mean a complette waste of time im glad i downloaded the demo first b4 i 
 bought it i dont recommed this game to any real racing fan cause it wuz stupid and boring and the 
 way the nitries came in wuz so lame then they had the stupid pac mman thing come in one the bottom 
 of the screen when u finish a lap i will never play another ridge racer game as long as i live 
 mario cart on the n64 wuz better than this game this wuz the sorrriest game on the 360 to date 
 come on 360 u gotta do beeter than this and y are we getter godfather late and we dont even have 
 black 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 3.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  To make this short and sweet, I understand that RR6 has a rabid following, and that to those fans 
 I am sure it is a great game. And maybe if I played it before PGR and NFS I would have liked it 
 a bit more.
  
  But as it is I had it in my 360 for about 1 hour... and while the graphics were nice that is all 
 I can say good about the game. 
  
  The controls and physics were nothing like what I have ever seen before... the lack of car varieties 
 in the early game dissapointing. The sound seemed to be a handful of generic tracks that left a 
 lot to be desired.
  
  If you aren't sure about the RR series... RENT IT FIRST!!!!!!!! You might be glad you saved $50 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davexia
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow, playing PGR3 before RR6 really makes this game look terrible. There's almost no comparison 
 between RR6 and PGR3.
  
  Whereas in PGR3, you race with real cars that have incredible animation, sound, and just a sense 
 of pride in being able to master each individual car's handling, in RR6 you get pretty generic 
 cars that all sound the same and have really no special characteristics. 
  
  They all drift around corners in the same ridiculous fashion that the Ridge Racer series has become 
 famous, and I believe, infamous for. In PGR3, you can also drift, but the feeling is so much more 
 asthetically pleasing because you actually feel the weight of the car as you're plowing through 
 corners. It's almost overkill to mention that the race tracks in RR6 look awful in this generation 
 of games.
  
  RR6 makes you feel like you're driving Matchbox cars. This game simulates toys, not real driving. 
 You'll be doing yourself a favor buy picking up PGR3 instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer for the PSP was very good, almost the best for the whole system at launch. This game 
 is somewhat like that game, but much, much crappyer. There is no sence of speed and the graphics 
 are so-so to lacking, plus the drifting is very unrealistic and stupid. It feels like you are on 
 a track, or somekind of ride like at a theme park, its just horrible and I suggest everyone stays 
 far away from this game. Trust me on this one, you don't want to go near it.
  
  Thats pretty much it, horrible gameplay and bad graphcs = horrible racer... the worst launch title 
 of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is 
 better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 
 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham 
 Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project 
 Gotham Racing 3 is better. Project Gotham Racing 3 is better.
  
  So, go buy PGR3 over this. (If your looking for a racing game.) 
  
  (I would buy Call of Duty 
 2 or Fight Night Round 3 if your looking for anything) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StupidHenchman
Rating: 5.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  I remember playing Ridge Racer 4 on my old Playstation, and my god it was the funnest game I played. 
 Well here comes RR6, for the Xbox 360, what ever happened to RR5? Oh well, I dont care. This is 
 going to be a very small review for a very unsurprising game.
  
  The Good:
  -Cool menu design.
  -Crapload of achievments.
  -Cool downloads from the Marketplace
  -Drifting 
 around a corner at 135mph is always fun.
  -Pac-Man gives you something to play while waiting through the long load times
  
  The Bad:
 
  -Annoying announcer guy (and what ever happened to the hot girl that used to start off the races?)
 
  -Races all seem the same
  -If you win a race in 1st, then go on to the next race.. it doesnt keep your place... but it keeps 
 your nitro.
  -Handling is sketchy
  -Graphics look like the should be on PSP.. or even PS1
  -The cars sound like microwaves.
  
  The Ugly:
  -Those goddamned bulidings... are they cardboard?
 
  
  This game falls incredibly short when compared to PGR3 and NFS: MW... even Full Auto. If you want 
 a game that you will play once then trade it in... well your an idiot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrMatta
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  First of all, this Ridge Racer is just the same as the previous installments.
  Only with better graphics, and a lot more races.
  It still has the same controls, still has that 
 annoying thing when you
  bump someone in the rear they rocket forward, and it still has some drifting
  issues.. but aside 
 from that the game is huge.
  
  And with huge i mean 30 races repeated 20 times, only in mirror mode,
  or at night etc. you know 
 what i mean.
  
  The game starts of fun, with 80 races to choose on some futuristic map.
  After those 80 races, 50 others pop out, and those are the most frustrating
  races i've seen 
 in a while.
  It's that typical japanese difficulty: they're allways right behind you with some force, like they've 
 been glued to your car.
  It makes it more difficult yeah.. but if your racing good, 
  your just racing good imo (and should win) .
  I hate to cheat in games, but i hate a cheating 
 AI even more.
  
  Aside from the infinite boosting enemies towards the ending, the game is
  put together nicely.
 
  The soundtrack isn't very good, with annoying 8-bit music sometimes,
  (Although i love 8-bit music, this was just lame) .
  And there are also some dumb happy hardcore 
 numbers which would
  be cool 10 years ago, but since you can choose your own music from HD,
  it's not a real problem.
 
  
  If you have a 360 i would personally go for Project Gotham, unless you
  don't like them extremely realistic racing games.
  This game is fun enough, but is frustrating 
 near the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I love the Ridge Racer Series. I have played every Ridge Race Game and I still play it on my PSP.
 
  
  That set aside I was really hoping that namco would do something to make the next gen version the 
 ultimate Ridge Racer. Well Namco failed at that. I am not saying that RR6 is a bad game it's just 
 not the best one which it should have been.
  
  GRAPHICS - The visuals are quite pleasing but after seeing what PGR did with the 360 hardware it 
 seems namco kinda half assed it.
  
  SOUNDS - It has the usual RR flair with the pumped up techno that we RR fans love.
  
  GAMEPLAY 
 - The races are fun but the series is starting to show it's age. I used to play RR for hours at 
 a time but now an hour is about all I can stomach.
  
  ONLINE -  (nuff said)
  
  I had high hopes for this 
 game and I know this is only the first wave of next gen games and they will get alot better within 
 a year but RR has always been there for me but it looks like Child protection services is coming 
 to get my copy - WAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  THE GAMEPLAY is unoque to other racers on 360 it is a little different from the rest it has notrous 
 to improve speed psp had it not as good though the control is tight and easy to play
  
  the graphics are very great the road forthe first time has texture so do the cars but no interior 
 view to see whats in these fake made up machines 
  
  the sound is great but as with many of 360 games the music is disasterous thats where custom music 
 comes in handy thecars sound the same though 
  
  the value is great alot of races and over 120 machines to unlock 
  
  tilt go ahead and get 
 it it has the greatsense of speed yet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PR3D4TOR2
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The game has good graphics but it's not all about graphics ok let's get to the point, the game 
 it's self has many diffrent routes exp: basic route, special route... and so on the game is very 
 long and very hard if you want to complete all racers well basic route is easy and special is easy-medium 
 but expert route get's little harder well in fact there's 3 ways how to get cars 1 way is to complete 
 singleplayer 2 way is to play multiplayer 3 way is the xbox live market 
  but there you can olny unlock the bonus cars 
  if you will get the game play 100 multiplayer 
 games dont matter if you loose or win on end you will get very powerfull car wiht name angelus 
 the car is in special class
  
  there is :
  
  class 1 
  class 2
  class 3 (here are modifided and tuned cars from class 1)
  class 4 (and here are modifided and 
 tuned cars from class 2)
  class special (special class is the fastest class )
  
  the main thing about this game is DRIFTING and in fact in this game is all about drifting, dont 
 even try to hit the brakes you might bump somewhere :)
  
  
  well if you are arcade player and like drifiting or you are just a fan get this game :)
  it's 
 really fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyromaster14
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is the first of it's kind on the Xbox 360, and it's kinda dissapointing that no new 
 features have been added to the long running series. The graphics aren't the best on the 360, but 
 it is still fairly decent. The frame rate is increibly smooth and there are a massive number of 
 vehicles.
  The controls are very simple, so newbies can get a hang for it right away. I didn't give the audio 
 a chance, because I listen to my custom soundtrack. This is not a particular game to raise your 
 achievement score if that's what you're looking for, most minor achievements are worth just 5 points 
 and the major ones are hard to do.
  Overall, I wouldn't recommend paying $60 to buy this game but your curiosity can be satisfied for 
 with a rental if you're looking for a good game to rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grash40
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Poor, weak and damn average. This was my first real disappointment on the 360. I foolishly fell 
 into the ad mans trap and against my own previous convictions about how poor the previous versions 
 had been went and bought the game. Oh for a time machine. It is hard to describe just how weak 
 the game is and believe you me I have never moaned about any game before nor felt compelled to 
 put it on public display. But this is an exception to that rule. Pure trash for 50 : ( Never again. 
 Leave this game well alone it sucks big time.
  ps
  Other gamers I know have complained bitterly about the on line service that they find it impossible 
 to play at all in most circumstances and just give up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2maniak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game will be loved by all who liked the previus RR games. It has great graphics that tie with 
 PGR3. The new boost system that was introduced in the PSP version has been revamped with double 
 and triple boost. The cars could be beter and there could be more. The inviroment are absolutly 
 amazing! There are leaves and acorns that fall down on you while you drive and it looks great. 
 There are also planes that fly bye. The buildings look great and the light shines off them. The 
 tracks are repetative but they are changed by closing some areas and oping others, but they are 
 grat enyway. The new world explorer mode is new and is very well done and original. The world explorer 
 mode is also very long. All and all it is a must have for the 360. The gameplay sounds are also 
 very good but the BGM could be beter. There is a ingame voice that sounds like a japanese imatation 
 of what they think Americans sound like but that voice can be changed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asoames
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:   
   
 ggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg  ggggggggggggggggggggg 
 ggggggggggggggggg gggggggggggggggggggggggggg ggggggggggggggggggggggg g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 gg g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g g 
 g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzibluedude
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  When I was a weeee nipper one of the first games I would look for when I hit the arcade was Ridge 
 racer, so when I found out that it was comming out on the 360 I was a happy ickle bunny, thats 
 untill I got it home ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
  Apart from the fact that you can unlock an insane amount of cars ( Always a good thing ) there 
 is nothing that impressed me. The Game play is a joke.... The sound is %$#%^%$ and as for life 
 span .. well it really has non to speak of..... but by far the worst thing of this joke of a game 
 has to be the commentary, really it makes you start thinking .... would it be so bad if I popped 
 my ear drums with a pin ?
  
  
  After only a hour of this game you will be digging around in your coat pocket praying you can find 
 the receipt...... Save your cash and get a real racing game PG3 ....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaeleltiste
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  This is the first of the Ridge Racer series that I've played. I did not like the game at all. Luckily, 
 I rented it. As the GameSpot review already noted, the handling and physics are ridiculous. It 
 was just too arcadish for me with out any of the arcade fun. It might have been slightly better 
 for me if it included "real" cars and or some damage modeling. I couId not get it to connect to 
 any online games, so I can not comment on the online portion. Graphics and Sounds were okay, but 
 what's with the annoying commentary. "Ohhh, somebody just fired off some nitrous." I only played 
 the first few races of the Ridge World, maybe it gets better as you get deeper into the game. However, 
 I was not willing to endure any more. I returned it to the video store before it was due back. 
 For me PGR3 and NFSMW are much more fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Hero1991
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is a slick game that has very smooth and stylish gameplay, the smooth gameplay will 
 make you feel as though you are driving seriously fast. The graphics are alot better then previous 
 Ridge Racer titles which was inevitable from the start due to the enormous power of the XBOX 360. 
 The sounds in this game are made up from scratch so the cars sound completely different to actual 
 cars, the made up sounds fit in with the made up cars which makes the sounds quite good. Nearly 
 all of the music tracks in this game are medium tempo drum & base tracks which really fits into 
 the style of racing of the game. The value of this game is enormous, the 1 player mode is enormous 
 spanning over 235 races, there are a massive amount of cars to collect including 8 special cars, 
 if all that doesn't impress you hop onto XBOX LIVE and play the world which will give you infinite 
 replayability. Personally I think this game is a great game and almost any racing game fan will 
 enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derrico_8448
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 10, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is all a kid could ever want... in an arcade in the 80s! I like old school games, but 
 when the series hasn't gone in any direction since the 80's! Its a problem. The graphics are worse 
 than most original xbox games!!!! The gameplay is so easy though, it will be annoying to ne1 under 
 the age of five. The sound of the engines isn't there practically and the soumdtrack consists of 
 three songs, which have the option to change, or switch off to hear only the low rumbly nothingness 
 of the engine. DONT BUY THIS GAME FOR ANYONE UNLESS YOU HATE THEM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Crusader
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Rsum:
  This game was pretty fun, but after a while you must ask yourself, why.
  Why am I still playing this game, ive played this level over and over. They kind of rushed this 
 game, they took they levels and put them backwards...
  The racing is not intense enough, but its still quite a fun game.
  
  Graphics: pretty good 
 the scenerie it real nice and the cars look real awsome too.
  
  Sound: The music gets anoying after awhile (especialy in the seacrest dristrcict ) . The sound could 
 have been a bit better, but it still good.
  
  Gameplay: Fun but for a while, but things starts repeating themselfs after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperRacerC91
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up today up and it is pretty cool i got to admit. In the beginning it's hilarious 
 listening to the crazy guy scream out Nitrous all the time, but after about two hours it get's 
 really old and annoying. The game is definately challenging on a lot of levels. It really revolves 
 around two things, NOS and Drifting. One of the achievements is incredibly ridiculous being that 
 it requires you to win every race without even touching the nitrous button. The achievements are 
 kind of hard and over half are secret so I'm not very sure of what they require. Overall the game 
 is fun and will definately be one of thse games that requires many hundreds of hours of play to 
 attain a perfect gamerscore which I will be happy with anywhere between 500 and 700 GS. I would 
 reccomend this game to someone that wants a serious challenge and will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2005-MUSA
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Blast through hairpin turns at over 150 mph as beautiful high definition graphics and scintillating 
 sounds assault your senses. Ridge Racer 6 utilizes the power of the next generation hardware to 
 deliver exhilarating drift racing gameplay at even more extreme speeds plus Xbox Live features.
 
  
  Experience the never-before-seen sensation of speed with the evolved Nitrous System. In addition 
 to over 130 cars and 30 courses -- the most out of the entire series -- all new online modes include 
 Vs. Battles, Global Time Attack, and Downloadable Content on Xbox Live Marketplace!
  
  THE ULTIMATE RACING CHALLENGE: Ridge Racer 6 offers the widest selection of cars and courses to 
 date featuring over 130 new machines (including over 8 Special Machines) , 30 challenging courses, 
 and a classic mini-game at the start-up screen.
  NEW WORLD EXPLORER MODE: This brand new mode matches the player's gaming style offering over 230 
 races.
  EVOLVED NITROUS SYSTEM: Punch the nitrous and experience the intensity of new levels of speed.
 
  XBOX LIVE COMPATIBILITY: Compete head-to-head in online races. Challenge the worldwide unified 
 time attack ranking in Global Time Attack. Upload/download Ghost Data for more challenges. Players 
 may also download new content via the Xbox Live Marketplace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scytherage
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I didn't expect much out of this game.... PGR3 didn't come out for the Japanese 360 at the same 
 time, and the reviews on the internet all gave RR6 low scores. But after playing this game for 
 over 98 hours and counting now, I'll say that this is the best arcade racing game I've ever played. 
 Did you ever dream of actually taking one of those arcade units at home... we gamers have always 
 had to settle with ports of arcade games that look nothing like the originals. RR6 for me epitomizes 
 THAT MOMENT when finally games for the console are finally as good, if not BETTER than their quarter 
 munching counterparts!
  
  As beautiful as the graphics are for this game (which stays at 60 FPS even with 14 online cars 
 on track all at once!!) , it's the gameplay that I love about this game. It's much deeper than it 
 seems and there's a lot of strategy to each 3 lap race that you do, especially online.
  
  I admit that PGR3 is definitely superior in the graphics department, but in my opinion RR6 wins 
 hands down in gameplay and fun! At least give it a rent and try it for more than ten minutes... it 
 will get you hooked. If the cars seem very slow on class 1... don't worry, they get much much faster 
 especially by class 3 and 4. Online the competition is great, no single car dominates the races... skill 
 is really needed to win.
  
  Great game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog144
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  first let me say that i dont really care for racing games, and i only played the demo of this and 
 i was hooked. It made me want the 360 more now, since i dont have one yet. This game rocks, its 
 faced paced, and the graphics are pretty dang good. Its WAY better then project gothom reacing 
 3. I really didnt care for that game. Over all this game rocks and as soon as i get my 360, im 
 going to try and pick up this game to. And if you dont have it and your looking for a nice racing 
 game, this game is for you, youll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leecroft
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:52 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer you have been away far to long and in parts it shows. You maybe showing your age abit 
 what with Burnout and Need For Speed at full speed leading the way with arcade thrills but you 
 still have a place in my heart. 
  
  The game may start off slow and very easy but within afew hours play it starts to show what its 
 about and can get pretty though in later races. The graphics a tad bland at times and the city's 
 do look a little lifeless are far from being the best on the 360 look abit xbox 1 on a normal tv 
 but link it up on a plasma, LCD or any HD display and it starts to look much better (but then everything 
 does looks better on a decent tv) with lovely effects such as reflections from passing buildings, 
 impressive frame rate and good sense of speed from later racers. The music is jap tech/rock (basically 
 crap) , if you have an hard drive just play your own music. First impressions may not be great but 
 sit down and play it for afew hours and you may start enjoying it more. I found that the game plays 
 much better online and really comes alive, there maybe afew niggles and bugs that still have to 
 be sorted out but general frame rate and ping is usually solid but best played online with your 
 pc disconnected from line to help frame issues. 
  
  An old school arcade racer that still as life in it but is showing its age in places. Some people 
 won't get it and pass it off while others will fall in love with it and remember the old PS one 
 days and why they fell in love with the arcade racer. A arcade racer at heart and isn't afraid 
 to show it. The NT-SE (u. s version) does play on PAL Xbox 360's so it best advised to buy the NT-SE 
 version over the PAL version that is said to not be full screen, just make sure that your tv can 
 play 60 htz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LgB_CSI
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 9:40 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 is a great game for the entire family. Whether your out there as a pro, or just like 
 kicking the snot out of some friends on Xbox Live. Ridge Racer can at times get lengthy, as most 
 of the courses are on the same base of about 7 different maps. Most of the achievements are easy 
 and within reach to obtain, like one as simply as playing online with a person from another country. 
 The graphics are okay, and the high speed nitrous is a great addition to this game. Online game-play 
 isn't that great as there have been some major lag issues. Though the learning curve is about 10 
 minutes to understand how to shift correctly. 
  
  There are also 4 classes of machines you can unlock for maximum speed and drifting.
  
  The 
 only annoying thing is the announcer, bleh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesben222
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun (ish) game, but the graphics and technicality of it are boring and nothing like what 
 the 360 should be used for or capable of..... 
  
  The new universe thing is quite a good idea, although i didn't like the idea of being able to choose 
 your routes at first, however, i think this can work. 
  I also have ridge racers on the PSP, and although the graphics aren't too shabby, technically, 
 there aint a lot of difference between these and the PSP apart from the 360's graphics for this 
 game have a hell of a lot more detail (the concept is still the same though)
  
  If you are looking for fun and a quick laugh, buy this....
  If you are looking for a technical 
 racer that actually starts to resemble real life, buy Project Gotham Racing 3 (for the moment)
 
  
  Not bad though.... although won't be buying the next one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackrm
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 6 feels like the original game for the Playstation, except the graphics are improved. 
 There is no need to rent or purchase this game, because you can get the same experience playing 
 the original Ridge Racer.
  
  The gameplay feels extremely dated. The other racing titles for the Xbox 360 blow this game out 
 of the water. The arcade-like handling gets extremely repetitive after a few races. Another problem 
 with the game is the huge amount of time it takes to finish. There are so many races that it is 
 best not to play any of them at all.
  
  Graphically, Ridge Racer 6 is great. The textures on the cars and the environment are impressive. 
 This is one of the better looking Xbox 360 launch titles. If the gameplay was as good as the graphics, 
 Ridge Racer 6 would be a game worth picking up.
  
  Avoid Ridge Racer 6 and get a much better racing game from the launch lineup. Hopefully the next 
 Ridge Racer in the series will have completely different gameplay style, or else this might be 
 one of the last games in the Ridge Racer series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgreenawald
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  This is a far better version than its previous versions. You start out with crazy fast cars, and 
 believe me, they only get faster. The thing I liked most about this game is that the computer was 
 a little tough. It took me a few trys on some of the races just to win. I am the type of player 
 who likes a challenge, and if you like to be challenged, this is the game for you. Graphics are 
 awesome, game play, cars, just the way it looks when you hit the nitrous is worth it. For anyone 
 who is wanting some good clean racing, not street racing, but organized racing, this is definately 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adesics
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  For me, RR6 feels like a souped up Playstation game, which is good. The 360 needs more Japanese 
 input in my opinion. I've got kind of bogged down in PGR3 which is an amazing game, but sometimes 
 you just want to drive like a tart around some ultra modern Japanesey geography and not have to 
 worry about crash barriers and corners and er... those stoppy things that um... slow you down. 
 Sweeping city fly-overs in between skyscrapers that go up for ever and neon lit tunnels remind 
 me of the best times in the old Playstation Ridge's. The atmosphere is certainly there. 
  
  I spent two hours solid last night with the game after I realised that you dont necessarily have 
 to steer right at a right-hand bend. If you decide to steer left instead, it's all good. Just make 
 sure you start sliding and the game will automaitcally whip you round the corner whilst you are 
 spinning in the opposite direction, like some kind of crazy fairground ride. It's a sight to behold. 
 It wont do much for you nitrous points or you lap time but its so much bloody fun you'll never 
 want to go back to 'normal' cornering again. Well, I found it difficult to.
  
  Frustrated with PGR3? Throw physics and logic out of the window and try something fun and exhilarating. 
 It's a racer, not a sim.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Did you wanna Pay $60 for Poop in a Box with a nice package thats says Xbox 360?
  
  This is my Opinion a the makings of a good (mediocre) game.
  The Environment has to be appealing 
 and worth seeing again.
  Gameplay must be solid or a least try to be.
  Good Mobility and Control.
  Good Story or goals to complete the game.
  A Interesting Variety 
 in options, stages, and material (Cars) .
  And if its a sequel in the Franchise I would bring some familiar aspects to the game.
  
  Does 
 anyone remember Ridge Racer 5? Because I do, I got it shorty after launch of the PS2 and it sucked 
 as bad as this sequel too. I really remember Ridge Racer 4 and that version was actually good and 
 fun. Namco knows they did a crappy job with RR5 because it took them 5 years to move on and forget 
 about it. They Decided to let their bowels move just one more time to test the waters. Microsoft 
 was so desperate for Japanese developers to have titles for the japan launch they really didn't 
 care what it was they just wanted product out on the shelves.
  
  Remember the Launch of the PSP, Ridge Racer was the first off the Shelf. But wait its just called 
 Ridge Racer, maybe they are embarrassed by the previous releases. Well I hope Namco doesn't decide 
 to crap on the PS3 as well cause I would hate to right another crappy review about crap.
  
  I'm sorry forks about the Language and about My sad review but it's just my opinion.
  
  If 
 you are bored, really bored and thinking of checking this one out, Forget it!
  You wouldn't give some one money to crap on your 360, so don't waste your time.
  
  I've talked 
 badly about a game before but this one takes the toll.
  
  Sorry Folks
  I gotta go take a bath I feel dirty.
  -Crim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  
  Ridge Racer 6
  
  Ridge Racer 6 is one of the first games of the series to appear on a non Sony based games console, 
 with the exception of the n64 but that was like Ridge Racer 64 but this instalment is the real 
 thing its Ridge Racer 6! The game plays like an arcade game which has been done before but can 
 prove to be fun in its own right. The game is slightly disappointing as an Xbox 360 game as its 
 supposed to be next gen and this game is certainly not next gen.
  
  Firstly the graphics are a big let down. Its a release game so not many people were expecting 
 much from this instalment of the game but it really does look disappointing and certainly more 
 than a bit drab at times. The textures really arent sharp at all and the car models certainly 
 dont look that good if you have seen or played Project Gotham Racing 3 or Need For Speed Most 
 Wanted you will find that the cars in Ridge Racer 6 certainly are disappointing and arent even 
 real makes. They are named after old Namco classic games that many wont be familiar with but it 
 does add a nice touch for those slightly older gamers. The announcer from the previous games is 
 back and is really distinctive to the Ridge Racer games and is annoying as always.
  
  The games sound really dosent has that much to offer you. Its car sounds are disappointing and 
 sound weak and the overall sound of the game is disjointed. The music is disappointing but does 
 have a few good tracks on it to offer to your musical tastes.
  
  The gameplay of the game remains somewhat untouched in a way and hasnt really changed since its 
 Playstation preceders, it still revolves round the basic element of drifting franticly around corners 
 and if you break you are really doing something wrong kind of gameplay. The game does play ridiculously 
 fast but this does help to keep the arcade style gameplay flowing which isnt always a bad thing. 
 The gameplay can be quite fun and might be good fun for those who dont want ultra realistic gameplay 
 which can be found in pgr3 and nfsmw and want something more frantic and arcade like and who are 
 not into the car customization and police chases which feature in nfsmw. When you do occasionally 
 crash into walls and things your car doesnt take any damage at all and doesnt have a damage meter. 
 The game does have a nitrous meter which can be filled by pulling off drifts and overtaking opponent 
 cars whilst racing. You can use your nitrous all at once giving you a short but very fast boost 
 or you can use it over along period of time to your advantage or whichever suits you best. 
  
  The game has a great single player mode where there is roughly around 200 or so races to complete, 
 the game tries to make it stretch longer by making you do you some races backwards or by making 
 you only be allowed to drive in certain types of car and disabling the nitrous function which can 
 make it feel a bit careless in the making. The game has great online too which can handle up to 
 16 people per game but the game does recommend 8 but its very rare to receive lag at 16 players. 
 A lot of fun can be had on Live which adds replay ability and lots of it too.
  
  If you cannot find anything you like in pgr3 or nfsmw get this game instead it has its moments 
 and you can have some fun with it. The graphics are somewhat last gen and the sound is nothing 
 special but the Gameplay is still great as ever and online modes and extended single player are 
 one of the things that help the game to be a good racing game in its own right.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzima
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 4:36 am PT
Review:  SAME OLD, SAME OLD! BUT DONT COMPLAIN, ITS NOTHING INNOVATIVE
  BUT ALSO ITS NOT A WASTE OF MONEY! ITS JUST FUN!!!!!!!!!! JUST THE USUAL RIDGE RACER, GOOD GRAPHICS 
 AND SIMPLE FUN.
  I THINK THIS GAME WAS GOOD, I THOUGHT IT WAS UNDERRATED ON GS, ITS WAY BETTER THAN NEED FOR SPEED-STILL, 
 I EXPECT MORE FROM THE 360, BUT ALWAYS KEEP IN MIND THAT THE GAME CAME OUT WITH THE CONSOLE. NOW, 
 TRY TO REMEMBER THE FIRST GAMES FOR EACH CONSOLES (PS2, XBOX....) AND THEN COMPARE THEM WITH THE 
 NEWEST GAMES.... IF THE 360 WILL IMPROVE THAT MUCH WITH TIME, JUST IMAGINE IN 1 YEAR WHAT WILL WE 
 BE PLAYING WITH... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: auralxtc
Rating: 1.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible. Yes i know it is a Ridge Racer game. Yes i know that you either love them 
 or hate them. But i REALLY wanted to give this game a shot. I really like racing games, and 360 
 didnt launch with a huge library of titles, so i'm trying to play what is available. I must say 
 that this game is by FAR my least favourite that i have played yet. 
  
  The Game's graphics are good. Not PGR3 good, but good nonetheless. The music in the game isnt terrible, 
 but the voice-overs that are constant make me want to scoop my eyeballs out with a spoon. The absolute 
 worst aspect of this game is the gameplay itself. The physics are COMPLETELY unrealistic... mind 
 you, i dont mind slightly unrealistic physics like in the Need For Speed games, that makes it more 
 fun. True-to-life physics in a racing game like Forza Motorsports take a lot of the fun out for 
 me. But this game is just over the top... if you let off the gas and make a turn, you are instantly 
 thrown into a sideways drift. Yes, drifting is fun, but it is not needed around every freakin corner. 
 I mean to win the game you really never touch the brake. 
  
  If you love the Ridge Racer series, you will probably at least like this game. If you are more 
 into games like Project Gotham, Need For Speed, and the like, stear clear of this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunks35
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:28 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer is a really nice looking game. The cars are very sharp and the scenary is amazing. 
 I didnt really like the controls all too much I found them to be really stiff but I have never 
 really played any of the other Ridge Racer games. Other then that i really enjoyed this game. You 
 can do amazing drifts in this game and not all the cars have stiff handling I found most of them 
 to though. Great game for you and a few friends to play. Really fast paced game so if you enjoy 
 speed I reccomend this racing game to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer_Of_SeeD
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Oh dear lord! Thats the first reaction I had when I saw Ridge Racer 6 in action. Oh my God! Thats 
 what I thought about Ridge Racer 6 when I saw the depth. Holy Geez-Golly-Moses! Thats my reaction 
 when I felt the perfect control scheme that Namco laid out for its newest, and by far coolest, 
 edition of Ridge Racer. 
  
  Lets put the metal to the pedal with this review
  
  Gameplay and Fun Factor
  
  Namco could have gone the route of the Gran Turismos of the world 
 and tried to piece together something that couldnt possible be done in such a short amount of 
 time. Theres just something about a good old racing game that makes someone just want to pick 
 up the controller and speed away. Dont get me wrong, I like the Gran Turismo series and everything 
 that it has brought to the table, in terms of depth and what not, but Namco will always have a 
 warm place in my heart when it comes to just putting the metal to the pedal and going by someone 
 at mach 12. Namcos Ridge Racer series has always brought the adrenaline without asking too much 
 thought from its players. No surprises, just pure racing. 
  
  With that said, lets talk about the best feature that Ridge Racer 6 has to offer, control. I found 
 this to be the most pleasing experience when it came to very accurate control scheme. While this 
 isnt giving you too much realism, the controls are made to provide enough stability where you 
 can actually think more about where you opponent is rather than having to think if you can push 
 the analog stick a little bit more to the left or not. If you over compensate for a turn, youll 
 be able to pull it back under control. If you want to do a power-slide around a corner, you need 
 only let go of the gas, tap the break, and then punch the gas again, while turning the analog stick 
 whatever direction you need. Theres no trick to it. I wish there was, Steven McGehee and William 
 Campbell were giving me praise on my accurate ability to pull off an almost perfect power-slide. 
 I took in the glory until I realized how easy it was to perform one. So much glory though (sigh
 
  
  
  
  
  
  Anyway, the controls are great, but what about the A. I. of the other cars? Well, as tradition has 
 shown in the recent years, the A. I. is very important when it comes to driving games. First off, 
 you dont want to blow through everyone without having competition applied, but then again you 
 dont want your chasse handed to you because the computer is too smart. Regretfully the first choice 
 is the case with Ridge Racer 6. I found the game to be way too easy when it came to actual racing. 
 Once you get the control scheme down and are comfortable, which doesnt take long, youll be blowing 
 the competition off the track. The computer doesnt really try at times, its pitiful. And while 
 this may seem major to most, it was still nice to leave the computer in my dust. For years weve 
 all been toiling with getting our butts handed to us from the Gran Turismo series, which has made 
 us hard drivers. Its sort of nice to have the confidence and control of burning the track up. 
 I wish the A. I. were a bit meaner; even it means bumping a bit sometimes. 
  
  So lets talk about tracks. You know, this game reminds me a lot of Segas driving series. From 
 the start it has the elements of Daytona and throughout it brings a lot of similar tracks like 
 Segas GT game. So many unique tracks, some short, some long, some repeating, some complicated, 
 its an amazing variety. From San Fran to what looks like Europe, youre promised never to be bored 
 by what Namco brings to the table in terms of track variety. Thats quite amazing. 
  
  Speaking of variety, lets talk about modes. Youve got four main modes in Ridge Racer 6, they are 
 as follows:
  
  World Xplorer  This is one of the deepest modes out there. If you can picture a connect-the-dot 
 map, where you have small dots that represent races, connected to other dots that represent more 
 races, and prizes. Now take that picture and multiply it many, many, many times. This is one of 
 the deepest modes on the game and something Ive never seen before in this time of racing series. 
 Its huge! As you win races in World Xplorer youll unlock and be able to race other races in the 
 Ridge Racer series, this gets back to the connect the dot factor. Its pretty damn impressive. 
 
  
  Single Race  It is what it says, a single race. You can race by yourself or you can race with 
 a friend. Regardless, youll be able to race a single race and enjoy life. Its simple and quick 
 and sometimes just what the ailment of boring driving calls for in an urgent adrenaline need. 
 
  
  Global Time Attack  What more do you need to know? The name says it all; its the Global Time 
 Attack. You get to go on a race against time and depending on how you do, your time gets posted 
 online so that everyone around the world can laugh at you (or was that just me) . Anyway, its pretty 
 straightforward, you can add some ghost cars in there if youd like to prepare you for future competition, 
 but its a neat option. 
  
  Online Battle  Im not quite sure why they called it online battle, online racing might have been 
 cooler, but who am I to complain? You go online to play other players around the world. And believe 
 me, this is lag-free! And the players are tough as nails. Forget about automatic shift, that doesnt 
 exist in this world. Manual shift is the only way to even remotely get close to winning a race 
 online. Those players online do not play around when it comes to driving. 
  
  These modes are worth something. Most games that tote a bunch of modes dont really mean half of 
 what they offer. Ridge Racer 6s modes are outstanding and worth your time in every way. I think 
 that is probably the biggest strength of the game. 
  
  
  
  
  Graphics and Sound
  
  The graphics are outstanding in Ridge Racer 6! You couldnt ask for better visuals. Youve 
 got really gorgeous reflections coming from the body of the car and very accurate shading, shadowing 
 and lighting on the car and off the car. The body of the cars are very smooth, detailed and look 
 like cars. Regretfully theres no damage to cars once you bump other cars or lose control of the 
 vehicle and bump into a railing. This is minor, but might have added to the game a bit, if not 
 for visual purposes. Call me spoiled but I think this would have helped quite a bit. 
  
  As for the environments youve got stunning realistic roads, mountains, houses, everything is so 
 very detailed. The first thing I noticed about the environments is the road. It literally is bumpy 
 gravel that looks painfully like a fast-moving road. I say painfully because if I were to fall 
 out of the car and smack into it, it would make me sad. 
  
  As for the sound, the voice is better than the original voice from the series. No cheesy, radio 
 disc jockey, now youve got a voice-over that makes you feel cool, calm and collect. As for the 
 music, it was very lackluster. I think techno is nice, but youve got to move out of this trance 
 crap. Bring something to the table thats going to rock out and make you want to kick it! Seriously, 
 the music was very disappointing. 
  
  Depth
  
  With the amount of tracks, the modes, the online play, this is the best Ridge Racer in the series. 
 I think this very deep, so many hours, but not quite the hours youll be pulling in Gran Turismo. 
 Youre looking at least 15 hours of gameplay until you want to rest a bit. Thats not bad considering 
 what other Ridge Racer games were in terms of depth. 
  
  Overall Comment
  
  This is my favorite game on the Xbox 360. It was a perfect launch title that Namco should be very 
 proud of. So, with that said, you should race to your local store and pick this puppy up, if youre 
 lucky enough to have a 360. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: covenant_elite7
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  This game was so addicting I have been playing it for weeks. I thought that the good things in 
 this game overshadows the bad and mixes to make a good racing game. The graphics are NOTHING to 
 look at. They are not "next gen" worthy in any sense of the word. The game looks like a good lookin' 
 xbox game, not a 360 one. The announcer is the most annoying thing since.... EVER!!! He repeats 
 "nitrous" over and over and over. WHOEVER thought putting an announcer this terrible in this game 
 should be.... I can't say. The gameplay is pretty cool the drifting works out nicely and the AI 
 will get (sorta) aggressive at times. NOS works out pretty well giving a type of strategy deal 
 to the game. I've never had a problem with soundtracks in a game, but with this one I immediatley 
 started playing my own music. I HATED the techno-peppy music in this game no matter how much it 
 "fits" the game. Like I said I have been playing this for a while now and it is very addicting... I 
 liked it, but there have been mixed reactions to the game. So that's what I think of RR6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillz0
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are a bit dissapointing Better than need for speed most wanted but not that much. Playabality 
 is good like other ridge racers. But more of the same nothing new. Bit dissapointing of Namco. I 
 don't believe that a company like that can make such a fool game.... That's NOTHING ELSE TO SAY 
 NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY 
 NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAY 
 NOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TNOTHING ELSE TO SAY NOTHING 
 ELSE TO SAY NOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAYNOTHING ELSE TO SAY O SAY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanhalenn4
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  This game shows off what the 360 can do. I like it because its about racing my favorite game cycle. 
 The cars look okay, but much better than the previous r racer. if only i had a 360 i would buy 
 it!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i had to use my friends so i could play it : ( but then i found out how sick it 
 is so now i'm saving up for it!!!! :) if i could give this game a grade it would be a 12 but the 
 score can't go that high! well the concept is sharp, the racings awesome dude!!! and the theme, 
 well if you don't like racing then don't come anywhere near this game because non racers shouldn't 
 buy racers property!!!! i race my self!!! so hah!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polska1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I have all ridge racer games, but this one is good, they should have made ridge racer 2 3 4 5 ,but 
 they did not. thi is just a racing game. midnight club 3 is more fun, but this game is cool too. 
 this game is almost old school, because it just has racing and thats it. the graphics are cool, 
 but the envoirement details could be better. i recommend this game for people who only like to 
 race race race race race race race race race race race race race race race race race race race 
 race race race race race race and race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtymar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:34 pm PT
Review:  So you got an XBOX360. You like racing games. so as of now, you have 3 choices. You can get the 
 beauty of PGR3. The wild cop chases of NFS: Most Wanted. Or you can go with the racing franchise 
 that makes any system launch a worthwhile one. Ridge Racer 6.
  
  If you've been in the franchise before, you know what to expect here. Fast arcade style drifting 
 and speed. What has made the series so much fun before has all been left intact here. Add new tracks, 
 the usual insane lineup of slick looking cars (sorry, nothing name brand here) , a very kick-ass 
 soundtrack selection, and the XBOX360's powerful graphic engine, and you got one slick looking 
 racer.
  
  Added to this edition is the nitrous feature also found in the PSP version. As you drift around 
 turns, faster drifters fills up your nitrous meter that you can set off to reach insane speeds. 
 Unlike the PSP's nitrous, you can stack the nitrous this time to unleash not just one, but two, 
 or three nitrous's at once. Furthermore drifting after nitrous runs out gives you an "ultimate 
 charge" that can refill you nitrous meter even faster. It adds a strategic element to this Ridge 
 Racer as now using your nitrous at the most beneficial moments becomes a science.
  
  There may not be many tracks, and the first few set of cars may feel a bit slow, but the challenge 
 of the World Class mode allows for many different tasks that only the most hardcore drifters can 
 handle. By completeing a set of races in the map, you unlock more cars, and other features. 
  
  The fun may run out quick for this racer, but it's still worth the pick up for any fan of the 
 originals. So if you're bored earning kudoz, or running from cops, try drifting at 200+ MPH. You'd 
 be surprised how much fun it can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFArchive
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:23 am PT
Review:  This game has nice graphics, decent music but it is way too difficult. I've tried the first race 
 a dozen times and have only managed to get to 2nd place but that isn't good enough for this game. 
 It would appear you have to finish first in all the races (200+) to advance. That to me is way 
 too difficult for the casual racer to bother with. I also bought PGR3 and I can do okay in it and 
 I don't get booted back to the same race everytime for finishing 2nd.
  
  I will likely never try this POS again. And I'll probably just dump it for $10 at EBgames or something.
 
  
  Total waste of money.
  
  Good job Namco 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clwwong
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 8:07 pm PT
Review:  The game run very smooth and the graphics are pretty fine. Nothing revolution, but new tracks. 
 There are penlty of tracks there for you to explore. The online multiplayer is very smooth, no 
 lagging so far. They could do better in the sound tracks and the effects. You will definitely need 
 to play the RR6 in HD mode, the graphics are sweet. I made a comparsion with the composite video, 
 the HD mode is more rich and fine which no consoles are able to do it other than 360. In fact, 
 you will need the HD for all 360 games in order to experince the next-gen console. Finally, you 
 will love this game if you are the fan of Ridge Racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony555
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game Is Fantasic to make this clear and easy to read I have lits the details why the game 
 is worth your pennys:
  
  1= The graphics are amazing they have really put the effort into the game
  
  2=The selection 
 of cars is fantastic many great cars to choose from including many great tracks to race round
 
  
  3=This sound is crystal clear even better if you own 5.1 speakers
  
  4= This game has the lifespan of wine it is a game that you can play for hours and not get bored 
 of
  
  In my opion I rate this game 10/10 due to its solid gameplay, stunning graphics, great selection 
 of cars and its long living value this game is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveJ009
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 2:00 pm PT
Review:  I can remember when Ridge Racer was among the kings of racing games back on the old Playstation. 
 Good looking graphics, nice racing action, and a soundtrack that frankly could be jammed while 
 driving in real life (and was) . So, it was with reasonable expectation that I popped in the latest 
 installment of RR, conviently titled Ridge Racer 6.
  Well, the presentation is definetely slick. And yes, there's the classic Namco babe with the boyish 
 haircut. And lo and behold, no liscenses, so all the cars are slight modifications of actual models. 
 Sometimes.
  And that's where the game starts to come apart. I mean, after 5 installments of the same game, 
 you would think Namco would spring a few bucks and get some real lisences. I mean, it's innovative 
 that the creators take time to create new designs, but I feel that this hurts the game. Real cars 
 means real accomplishment. I think back on the day that I FINALLY got an Enzo Ferrari in Forza 
 Motorsports with total joy. Since this was a "real" car in the "real" world, I felt that I had 
 earned it by putting in my time. When you get a new car in RR 6, it just feels like you did a nice 
 trick and was rewarded with a cookie. Good dog, have a biscuit. Not to say that the cars aren't 
 neat, because they are. They are extremely well-modeled and detailed. They are shiny and glossy, 
 and generally attractive.
  My next issue is the style of racing. This is a drift-racing only game. Previous versions at least 
 had a choice of grip versus drift style racing. Personally, I am a grip-style driver (see above 
 reference to Enzo) , so I felt a little slighted that I wasn't even offered this style. Now, the 
 drifiting is very well done, if unrealistic, and it only took a few turns to get it locked in.
 
  Graphically and playability is pretty well represented. You really shouldn't expect any less from 
 Namco, old hands at racing programming. I also appreciated the flexibility of the racing setup, 
 where you can race a single track, or set up your own series at any length you desire. The menu 
 system is a little cumbersome, making you start over at the end of every series, but this is minor.
 
  But then comes the sound. One word comes to mind: Terrible! The music is simply not up to par 
 from the previous versions, and the announcer.... ugh. This guy is easily the most annoying person 
 since Coolboarders 3 (YAGI!) . Every other word is nitrous. Every other word! Have we just discovered 
 this word? It wouldn't be so annoying if the announcer didn't go nuts every time someone used it. 
 For example, when a opposing racer comes up behind, the announcer will ALWAYS say, "watch out, 
 someone's using nitrous!". Thanks! I totally couldn't tell from the guy blazing past me that NOS 
 was in effect. It only took about 2 races for me to finally turn the guy off. The other sounds 
 are also equally uninspired. The squeal of tires sounds totally canned, like applause in sitcoms. 
 Almost as if they had forgotten to put that sound in, and found the most generic sound file that 
 they could put in. Shame on you, Namco!
  So, if you are into driving, I might recommend against this game. It would make a great rental, 
 but it's not something that I would personally keep around for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TranMan409
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:41 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Ridge Racer ever since it launched on PS1. Ridge racer 6 main selling point is 
 the addictive drifting as its easy to pick up but hard to master. Also the nitrous function adds 
 depth and strategy as you try to get the most of it everytime. The game also supports up to 14 
 players online which is a blast because most of the time there is little to none lag. You will 
 also meet a wide variety of people as Japanese players populate the online so make sure your friendly 
 :)
  
  Overall if your a fan of Ridge Racer, then you should definately pick this up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: depopopo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Namco refuses to let the old-fashioned arcade racer waste away. As previously mentioned, Ridge 
 Racer 6 is an arcade title through-and-through, with no signs of a racing simulator anywhere. There 
 are no officially licensed cars, no fancy physics and handling engine, and no affiliation with 
 any of racings sanctioning bodies. What you will find in Ridge Racer 6, however, is drifting, 
 and lots of it. Youll have a few different game modes in which to get your slide on, but the main 
 portion of Ridge Racer 6 is known as World Xplorer. World Xplorer is a type of campaign mode that 
 allows gamers to race every event and free-roam in between if they so desire. Basic racing consists 
 of ten cars and three laps around a city circuit-style track. 
  
  The events are divided by vehicle type, and youll have to compete with specific cars to gain entry. 
 Cars, or machines in this case, are pretty basic, but they each have their own drift difficulty 
 and power ratings. 
  
  Events are variable in World Xplorer, but youll have to unlock them via successful finishes. Along 
 with ten driver, three lap events, you may be asked to go one-on-one with a skilled racer, mix 
 it up with an without nitrous support, or beat four other cars in a mini-event. These events can 
 be pre-selected in the useful World Xplorer navigation system which gives users the ability to 
 create a custom route. 
  
  Its possible to get some seat time and practice against the computer in Single Race mode. Youll 
 have the option of tracks, time limit, and vehicle. A split-screen mode known as Multi Battle is 
 also free form arcade racing at its best, with user-configurable options. The Global Time Attack 
 mode is a Live-based race against the clock. Youll have three laps to acquire a best time, which 
 will then be uploaded to Xbox Live. Ghost data is also available for download which may help convince 
 you that your drift style is the suck and that you need to follow those that know a bit more. The 
 Online Battle mode may also prove that you arent as good as you think you are at Ridge Racer. 
 This globally-active racing comes at you either as a ranked affair or just a friendly get together. 
 Handicaps, course type, car class, laps, and nitrous availability can all be tweaked for up to 
 14 player online contests. You can also bar gamers without the desired qualifications from your 
 matches, or reserve spots for friends only. If you truly dont have the driving skills to pay the 
 bills online, you can simply watch how the pros do it. Lets look at the complete controls (which 
 can be custom configured) for Ridge Racer 6: 
  
  Left thumbstick  steering 
  Left trigger  double nitrous, triple nitrous 
  Right trigger  nitrous 
  Left bumper  downshift 
 
  Right bumper - upshift 
  A button - accelerate 
  Y button  change view 
  B button  look behind 
  X button  brake 
  Ridge Racer 6 is still the arcade classic you loved 
 as a kid.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 15, 2005 6:23 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played a Ridge Racer, then this one is not the same as the others. The new levels, 
 cars, and vinyls. If you the Ridge Racer series then this game will blow you on your ass. Too real 
 of graphics, and the sound in this game is very clear. You can hear very well. If you ever played 
 Midnight Club or Need for Speed and loved um, then you won't be able to turn this game down. It's 
 probably the best racing 360 games made so far. PGR3 isn't as good as this game. The big selection 
 of cars in this game makes it fun to choose. The graphics are probably the best thing about this 
 game. You can see the reflection the car. This game isn't to hard to learn and it's only about 
 11 hours long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IloveGodcards
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Nice game and everything, but I still think that PGR is way better than this game. Nice game and 
 everything, but I still think that PGR is way better than this game. Nice game and everything, but 
 I still think that PGR is way better than this game. Nice game and everything, but I still think 
 that PGR is way better than this game. Nice game and everything, but I still think that PGR is way 
 better than this game. Nice game and everything, but I still think that PGR is way better than this 
 game. Nice game and everything, but I still think that PGR is way better than this game. Nice game 
 and everything, but I still think that PGR is way better than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thb_da_one01
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 6, 2005 12:56 am PT
Review:  It's simply the worst Ridge Racer I've ever seen! Maybe it's just because it is on the Xbox. It's 
 a shame that Namco leave the Playstation platform after all these years. I thought I'd see some 
 beautiful graphics at least, but it's ugly to look at. That is, as all games on Xbox 360 actually. 
 Well, trust me... Whoever you are, it isn't a title for you! It isn't the title that will launch 
 the Xbox yet. For the moment I just want my PS3. Why is Sony taking all this time to release its 
 console. Can't wait to play a good Gran Turismo 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbljynx24
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  Ridge racer brings it all to you. Fast cars, nitro, great tracks (old ones of course too!) , good 
 music, and fun! i'l admit if you dont have xbox live, its probably not as fun. But on live the 
 action serious and great. it a thrill ride you must take on the early releases. Even of bad reviews 
 in some places, i highly suggest this game if you really wanna RACE!!!!
  
  P. S. -All you old ridge racer players, you have a distinct advantage...... as usual, so i know you'll 
 like it. But the youngs are shining too! All have a chance to take the crown in this game, online 
 or off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merkury622
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:59 am PT
Review:  My first experience with Ridge Racer was on the PSP and I really enjoyed it. So I've been looking 
 forward to playing RR on a console and seeing it all on a much bigger screen.
  
  I have a quality standard TV (no HD) and the visuals are very sharp. It lacks some of the detail 
 of maybe PGR, but it still looks excellent. Most importantly, the frame rate stays right at 60 
 FPS. I can appreciate Namco leaving off a few graphical details here and there to keep the frame 
 rate smooth. After building experience playing RR on the PSP, the first cars in RR6 are a little 
 slow and the first set of tracks a bit easy (except for #7!!) but the difficulty and speed progress 
 nicely throughout the game. In the World Xplorer mode, you can basically plot your own path through 
 the races, making it less linear than it's PSP cousin. 
  
  The sound effects and music are great. The techno really suits the game play and it's a nice change 
 from mostly rock music in other racers. I really don't like the announcer in RR6, but fortunately 
 you can mute him or you can unlock additional announcers in the Xplorer mode.
  
  I hosted an online game last night for about an hour with up to 8 players, and the gameplay was 
 silky smooth. The framerate never dropped and there was no lag to speak of. Very impressive!
  
  Overall, Ridge Racer 6 is a great, smooth running arcade racer for those who love them!
  
 
  I'm a huge Burnout fan so I look forward to its release on the 360, and Full Auto as well, but 
 I appreciate RR6 as a great alternative when I feel like pure, simple racing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fredanderson0
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:29 am PT
Review:  This may drive some people crazy but out of all the 360 games I have (which is almost all of them) 
 this is the game I have played the most. There are two reasons for this. The first reason is I 
 am old school (nationwide high score on donkey kong in 1982, colecovision and vectrex at home still 
 set up and playing) and this was the first game I played on the playstation and it blew me away., 
 so there is a long term commitment envolved. Second reason is the excellence in game design. The 
 technigue grows out of the simple controls. There is very rarely a time in which you feel that 
 the control was taken out of your hands.
  Let me just say that in response to one of the other reviews of this game that to feel the full 
 effect of the incredible xbox360 one must set it to a hdtv , coordinate it with your computer witha 
 ton of mp3s and a great speaker system and of course xbox live. One must look at the overall focus 
 as opposed to a certain single element. Once the whole picture manifests itself you realize that 
 this system is quite remarkable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_best
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 3:38 pm PT
Review:  ok this is all arcade nothing but speed n curves , once you have learnt howto take the curves YOU 
 GOT IT that's it , you got the game in your hands .but not is as bad as it looks the sense of speed 
 in the game is awesome , but you won't find the car you like here ,there is all a wacko car designes 
 in this game if you are looking for speed n nitrous experience, ok this is the game in fact this 
 is a good game i recomend you to play , but rent it first 'cause $60 are not around the corner 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
