-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rise of the Argonauts
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/rpg/riseoftheargonauts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combat is fast-paced and satisfying.
 Superb character-progression system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Way too much walking and talking.
 Quality of animation is inconsistent.
 Frame rate drops dramatically for no obvious reason.
 Poor voice acting not helped by sloppy sound design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.8, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 442 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Liquid Ent.
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Dec 16, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jason spends too much time talking and not nearly enough time fighting in this Greek mythology-inspired 
 action-RPG. 

  Loosely based on the same Greek myth that inspired the 1963 movie  Jason and the Argonauts , Rise 
 of the Argonauts is an action-oriented role-playing game in which you assume the role of King Jason 
 of Iolcus and go in search of the legendary Golden Fleece. All manner of monsters stand between 
 you and your prize, and doing battle with them is a lot of fun. The same can't be said for all 
 of the time you have to spend wandering around and talking to other characters, unfortunately, 
 and the wildly inconsistent frame rate makes even the stop-motion special effects in the aforementioned 
 movie look silky smooth by comparison.  

           Tragically, you spend more time conversing than you do in combat.      

  Rise of the 
 Argonauts gets off to a shaky start. The assassination of Jason's bride on their wedding day in 
 the intro sequence ensure that the story is instantly compelling, but poor voice acting, awkward 
 camera angles, questionable animation (Jason negotiating stairs is a must-see for all the wrong 
 reasons) , and numerous visual quirks waste no time in conspiring against it. Furthermore, there's 
 not much combat early on, so much of your time is spent trying to navigate Jason's labyrinthine 
 palace and conversing with guards who, save for their different-colored uniforms, all look identical. 
 Iolcus, like the handful of other locations you'll visit after acquiring the Argo, affords very 
 few opportunities for exploration, but it still manages to be confusing enough in its design that 
 you need to refer to the crudely drawn map to locate mission objectives in a timely fashion.  

 
  The high point of Rise of the Argonauts is undoubtedly the combat; Jason is skilled in the use 
 of swords, spears, and maces, and he carries one of each as well as a shield at all times. The 
 controls are uncomplicated and responsive, and it's good that they're the same no matter which 
 weapon you're wielding, because you're encouraged to switch between them on the fly. None of the 
 enemies are particularly intelligent, but they're varied enough that you need to employ different 
 weapons and strategies to get the better of them. Your spear can be used to keep overly aggressive 
 enemies at a distance, while your mace is a good choice for destroying the shields of enemies attempting 
 to hide behind them, for example. Putting your own indestructible shield to good use is crucial 
 early on, but as you progress you become much more powerful and can spend more time on the offensive. 

  Interestingly, you need to go into the options menu if you want any kind of heads-up display for 
 your health during combat. By default, you're supposed to look for visual clues such as blood on 
 the clothing of Jason and his allies to know when they're in trouble, but the combat is so fast-paced 
 that this isn't always possible. Adding the HUD makes it much easier to know when Jason's health 
 is low, though it's not always important because, in keeping with his mythological status, he's 
 a tough guy to keep down. When your health drops to zero you don't die; rather, you enter a "state 
 of grace" in which the screen blurs and you have 10 seconds or so to avoid taking any more damage 
 before you regenerate around half of your health. You'll die if you sustain a single hit during 
 that time, but there are very few enemies who can keep up as you frantically run and roll around. 

           Aspects are a great way to customize Jason's abilities according to your play style.  
     

  There are a number of ways in which you become a more formidable fighter as the story progresses. 
 You'll be joined by a handful of allies who will fight alongside you two at a time, you'll be able 
 to add more powerful weapons and armor to your arsenal, and you'll learn new abilities by gaining 
 favor with the gods Ares, Apollo, Athena, and Hermes. Each of the four gods has a skill tree composed 
 of around 25 different "aspects" arranged into tiers so that more powerful ones become available 
 only late in the game. The aspects vary a great deal and include both passive abilities and god 
 powers that must be triggered manually in combat. Passive abilities include things like regenerating 
 health anytime you kill an enemy, doing more damage to shields, and making your allies more powerful. 
 God powers, which are fun but rarely needed outside of the most challenging difficulty mode, include 
 temporary effects such as increased damage, explosions, and the ability to turn enemies into stone. 

  To purchase any given aspect you need to earn enough favor with the appropriate god to unlock it, 
 which can be an interesting challenge in itself. The most obvious way to earn favor with gods is 
 by dedicating to them any deeds you've accomplished. You can do this at shrines scattered throughout 
 the world or, less elegantly, via an option in the pause menu. When you dedicate a deed to one 
 of the gods, you earn an amount of favor proportional to the scale of your accomplishment. Settling 
 a dispute among two traders is unlikely to impress in the same way that lopping off the heads of 
 25 enemies is, for example. The second way to curry favor with a god is by selecting dialogue choices 
 that are clearly labeled as being appreciated by them. This can make the act of choosing dialogue 
 a mechanical one if you care more about pleasing a specific god than you do about your interaction 
 with whomever you're talking to, but the conversations feel so unnatural anyway that this is as 
 good a way as any to get through them quickly.  

  It's unfortunate that so much of your time in Rise of the Argonauts is spent in conversation, because 
 much of the dialogue is poorly written and the voice acting is even worse. It's conceivable that 
 one is the victim of the other, but certainly neither deserves any credit for keeping the story 
 compelling. Even on the rare occasions that the script and the actors work well together, poor 
 sound design results in unnatural pauses and in volume levels that compete with background noise 
 or have you reaching for your TV remote. The lack of believable expressions on characters' faces 
 doesn't help matters, nor do the load screens that frequently appear at the most inopportune times -- occasionally 
 so quickly after a piece of dialogue that there's some doubt as to whether or not the character 
 talking was even allowed to finish.  

           Combat is fast-paced and satisfying, but there isn't enough of it.      

  To say that 
 Rise of the Argonauts has pacing issues would be an understatement of Olympian proportions; so 
 much of your time is spent running around and talking to people that combat feels like a rare treat 
 rather than a focus of the game. It's a real shame that getting to the end of this adventure is 
 as much a test of patience as it is a test of skill, because the combat gets increasingly satisfying 
 as your arsenal of moves and equipment grows. It's true that only boss encounters will pose any 
 real challenge on the default difficulty setting toward the end, but by then that feels appropriate 
 because you're wielding godlike weapons and powers that can literally call down lightning from 
 the heavens. With a greater emphasis on combat and fewer technical shortcomings, Rise of the Argonauts 
 could have been easy to recommend. As it is, though, this is a great story poorly told.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (36 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Anvonbank
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Rise of The Argonauts is a good game for anyone who likes ancient combat with an interesting storyline. 
 It is hard to classify this as a true hack and slash, but there is that element at its heart.
 
  
  The story begins with a very tense action sequence which, when the dust settles, leaves the player 
 (and the main character, a very likable Jason) wondering what the heck just happened. From there, 
 the game offers its hook: solve a mystery and right a wrong by making the right choices and administering 
 justice (not really revenge) to the baddies. You play as Jason, but acquire other companions who 
 can aid you in your quest. Like the classical quests, there is much more than fighting. You must 
 talk to a lot of people, make a lot of choices, and travel to several exotic locations. But the 
 bad guys do lurk around every turn, and they must be dealt with. You've got some really cool weapons 
 for this.
  
  This game is responsive, uncomplicated, and yet is fairly challenging (you can set to three different 
 levels of difficulty) . The story is basic, yet intriguing. I think most players would find this 
 a good game, as long as they do not expect to be killing bad guys nonstop. This is similar to Shadow 
 of Rome in that there is more to do than just kill.
  
  All that being said, the combat IS the best part. With several upgradeable weapons, each with a 
 different killing style, you can use whichever you like from the beginning, or switch to fit the 
 scenario you find yourself in.
  
  The weaknesses of this game are the navigation through the areas, which, despite being fairly uncomplicated, 
 make it fairly easy to get lost. An on-screen map would be nice, but that is buried in the options 
 menu. Another is that at times, the specific dialogue is tedious. For some, this may round out 
 the game more, as it did for me, but others may find it too much. The god powers are also a bit 
 muddy. It is somewhat unclear how they are equipped or utilized. It does work out, but it is hard 
 to know what is actually working and what isn't. Finally, I disliked that the bosses did not have 
 a life bar of any kind, making it difficult to know how best to pace your attack. The good news 
 was that most bosses fall sooner than you think they will.
  
  In sum, I really enjoyed this game. It is imperfect, as many games are, but for someone who enjoys 
 games like God of War or Prince of Persia, it suits well. I felt a bit like I was part of a movie 
 for much of the game, and I like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistriever
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  Though inspired by recent successes such as NWN2 and the KotOR series this game is a gem in it's 
 own right. Take the roleplaying aspect of these games and add God of War style combat. At it's 
 heart this is an RPG, inspired but often straying from Greek Mythology, so the genre Action-RPG 
 doesn't apply. This isn't Titan Quest or Diablo where action is the main theme, rather the fighting 
 is just tense periods between the dialogue as the story unfolds. If you played Jade Empire this 
 game has a familiar appeal. Despite the Gamespot review I found the voice acting to be of quality 
 and the game very polished. I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys a quality RPG. The difficulty 
 even when on Legend is lacking but as it is an RPG I think this was more to prevent RPG players 
 lacking the action skills to enjoy the game similar to Mass Effect's easy shooter combat system. 
 All n all it's been a pleasant experience. It's a shame we won't see a sequel anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 27, 2009 5:41 am PT
Review:  ROA came out last holiday season and was somewhat buried among the other huge titles that were 
 released during that period. To make matters worse many professional reviewers have given it what 
 I consider to be unfairly low scores. From the first I heard of this game I was interested due 
 to my fascination with Greek mythology and was going to play this game regardless of the criticisms 
 from the "pros". Here are my thoughts after completing the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY (8.0) - The biggest knock against the combat is that you wish there was a bit more of 
 it. Throughout the game you'll only be controlling Jason. Most of the time you will have two companions 
 but they act completely independent which is not a bad thing as they all fight pretty competently 
 and you never have to worry about their health. Jason will have 3 weapons to use throughout the 
 game - sword, mace and spear - which will be upgradable as certain missions are accomplished. Combat 
 flows smoothly and you will see satisfyingly gory explosions of blood as Jason decapitates, impales 
 and skull-crush his enemies. Only complaint is that occasionally the camera doesn't quite keep 
 up during dodge rolls or can get a bit too close in some cramped areas. As the game progresses 
 Jason will have the ability to call on "God" powers that you can choose to add based on what you 
 prefer. This brings up the experience system. Instead of achieving experience points and levels, 
 Jason will accomplish "feats" which can be anything from a simple errand mission to killing 50 
 enemies, for example. These feats can then be applied to one of four Gods, each of which has different 
 abilities they can grant to Jason. These include not only the "God" powers but also passive abilities 
 such as a greater chance to break the shields of enemies. Overall I thought this system worked 
 very well and was much more interesting then simply leveling up. Now it is true that the game will 
 involve more conversing with other people than pure combat, though towards the end of the game 
 it does become much more combat-heavy.
  
  GRAPHICS (7.0) Probably the weakest part of the game. The graphics tend to have a very rough and 
 blocky look to them, especially with some of the characters. There are also some framerate issues 
 which is surprising considering how you wouldn't think this is very taxing to your console. There 
 are some very nice and detailed environments but it's definitely not a game you're going to use 
 to impress anyone.
  
  AUDIO (9.0) Probably the strongest part of the game. With the exception of Hercules, who comes 
 off sounding somewhat oaffish, most of the voicework is excellent, which is important considering 
 how much speech you will use. Conversations generally give you several responses ala Mass Effect, 
 and your response usually ties in with one of the four Gods. Give a lot of responses typical of 
 Hermes, for example, and you'll build up points you can use to acquire some of Hermes' powers. 
 The background music is also very good, sounding appropriate for the era.
  
  VALUE (7.5) This probably took somewhat less then 20 hours, short for a typical RPG but not bad 
 if you look at is as more of an action-adventure game. Not too much reason to replay it other than 
 trying harder difficulties and scooping up more achievements. For most people I'd suggest waiting 
 for the inevitable price drop.
  
  STORY/SUMMARY - If you really know your Greek mythology then you'll find ROA definitely takes some 
 liberties. Some famous names are put in situations that never occurred in the ancient myths but 
 I could easily overlook this and simply enjoy the story. The story keeps a serious, mature theme 
 more typical of western RPGs. It's a fascinating journey as Jason travels to exotic locations in 
 his quest for the Golden Fleece. As long as you don't demand constant combat and can appreciate 
 a good tale then I feel you will have an enjoyable time with Rise of the Argonauts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Carmine
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 3:44 am PT
Review:  6.0? Gamespot must be mad to rate a game like this one as 6.0, this game deserves an 8.0 at the 
 least. 
  The story isn't bad, you play as Jason, who's wife was killed by the blacktounges during their 
 wedding day, so Jason searches for the only thing that can revive her which is the Golden fleece 
 and avenge her in the process. 
  While the graphics are good and next gen unlike what Gamespot said to be last gen, no last gen 
 game could possibly have graphics such as the one in this game
  The soundtrack from this game was not bad, and was actually quite good in my opinion.
  Characters 
 showed real emotions throughout the game, terrific voice acting 
  Gameplay was fantastic with instant action in every battle, you can chose to fight of your enemies 
 with either using the sword, the spear, and the mace, which makes combat not repetitive, also you 
 can use God Powers such as striking enemies with lightning spears and creating decoys of yourself 
 that adds the fun into playing this game. except for minor bugs and too much talking (which can 
 be skipped) this game is a must buy for all Xbox, PS3, and Pc owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nero96
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I played a lot of great games rated above 8 at gamespot which i did not like the most. Then i wanted 
 a change and thought of buying Rise of the argonauts thinking that its a waste of money. This game 
 surprised me. This is the game i was expecting and gamespot gives it a low score. Dont believe the 
 low score. This game is just like prince of persia just a little better with no wall climbing and 
 great graphics.
  
  The story was not so intresting but it was ok. The game play was so great. I cant wait for rise of 
 the argonauts 2. You can believe me and buy this game.
  Its just plain fun.
  You can just control jason but you can choose any 2 argonauts with you as a company.
  
  Graphics:8.5/10
 
  Gameplay:11/10
  Story:8/10
  This game as compared to other games:14/10
  Value for money:10/10
  Overall:10/10
  
  Sorry for my spelling and grammar mistakes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eagles_band
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  Pretty standard hack and slash. Spear, sword, and mace are the weapons. Limbs flying and decapitations 
 are pretty normal. The combat is pretty satisfying, even at the end I was not bored with the fighting.
 
  
  The game has a ton of interactive dialogue, similar to Mass Effect. I enjoyed it, if the game did 
 not allow me to choose different dialogues, I would really be bored, but the dialogue choices are 
 pretty neat.
  
  The game has way too much running. No fast travel and running through the territories is not satisfying 
 because they are rather dry. A lot of collision detections.
  
  ENVIRONMENT
  If the game environments were larger and more detailed with more sidequests, the game would be 
 a lot better. The environments or islands, are small. Don't expect anything near Oblivion here. 
 
  
  STORY
  A pretty cool story and something that kept me playing. Sure there are some evil sorcerers and 
 other cliche RPG stuff, but overall the story kept my interest and Jason is a pretty well done 
 character. Each island has its own story and they're all interesting. 
  
  Overall, I recommend Rise of the Argonauts as a rent that is well worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torque1599
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:29 am PT
Review:  Rise of the Argonauts is the latest game to borrow from Greek mythology. Rise tells the story of 
 the young king Jason of Iolcus. Jason is about to marry his childhood friend, Alceme, daughter 
 of the king of Mycanae, when tradgedy strikes. A mysterious assassin strikes her down with an arrow, 
 and Jason is plunged into an epic quest to recover the Golden Fleece bring his wife back from the 
 dead and thwart the designs of the Blacktongues, a powerful cult that worships the dread Titan 
 Hecate. This story has little to do with the actual legend of Jason and the Argonauts, but it is 
 well written and entertaining. Besides, sitting back and watching Medea do everything wouldn't 
 make for a very fun game.
  
  Before I start praising this game, I should point out that it does have many faults.
  
  For 
 starters, the story kicks off with very little introduction. You are littlerally thrust into the 
 aciton without even being told who you are. Your big lumpy friend is not even identified as Hercules 
 until about half an hour in. If you had not read the manual or seen the previews on game sites, 
 you might have no idea what was going on. However, after this point, the pacing is superb.
  
  Also, the graphics are not all they could be. While the combat sequences are universally well 
 animated, the in world animations are choppy. Many characters do not move in a natural manner, 
 their eyes don't move either and they often stare straight ahead while talking almost as if they 
 were blind.
  
  The graphics are marred further by sudden load times and framerate drops in places that don't make 
 sense.
  
  Honestly, the graphics seem almost unfinished. As if the game was rushed out the door before post 
 production could be completed.
  
  However, despite the faults of Rise of the Argonauts. The story and characters are really what 
 save this game. The story is well written, the characters memorable and fun to interact with and 
 the the combat is fast paced and fun. The characters Jason can recruit are a colorful and interesting 
 bunch. Hercules is Jason's longtime fried and the son of Zeus, his gruff but down to earth personality 
 really contrasts nicely with the  Achilles, or the tough 
 warrior woman Atalanta or the learned Satyr Pan. This is to say nothing of the secondary characters 
 who form the crew the Argo, Jason's ship. Jason himself is not lacking when it comes to personaility, 
 howeve some gamers may find him hard to swallow. Jason is almost a charicature of a chivalrous 
 knight, strong, courageous, wise and kind. A few years ago, he would have been trite and uninteresting 
 but with the influx of angsty anti-heroes in games in the ninties, Jason is a breath of fresh air.
 
  
  Despite their faults, the graphics are still quite pretty. The enviornments are varied and nice 
 and colorful. Each island you visit in the course of the game, Mycenae, Kythra, Saria and Iolcus 
 really evokes its own feel and the Tartarus stage manages to look distincive and creepy.
  
  The combat is one of Rise of the Argonauts' strong suits. The game plays like a hack and slash 
 action game. Jason can perform a swift, low damage attack, a slow but powerful attack, or bash 
 with his sheild and dodge. The shield bash does no damage but knocks enemeies back and leaves them 
 open to attack and is really handy when Jason is swarmed. You can also hold the right trigger for 
 an alternate version of each attack. The combat is RotA is fast paced, fun and very cinematic. 
 It's also quite easy on the default difficulty, but it never fails to be satisfying. 
  
  What you personally get out of Rise of the Argonauts really depends on wheather or not you are 
 willing to let a few gameplay issues get in the way of a great yarn. It has its faults, but they 
 are worth forgiving for a riveting and engrossing story. Rise of the Argonauts is a solid, meaty 
 morsel that is more than adequate to keep western RPG fans tided over until Dragon Age: Origins 
 comes out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KSU-Wildcat
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2009 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Rise of the Argonauts is a very difficult game to review. I am a sucker for stories in my videogames, 
 and I can easily look past a game's shortcomings if I sincerely enjoy the story. 
  
  The gameplay in Rise of the Argonauts is a mix of the average and the incredible. Sailing the high 
 seas on the Argos (your epic vessel named after its maker and navigator) , and traversing across 
 the environments works just like one would expect. Jason and his companions look great, and their 
 animations, for the most part, look good as well. You will run in to quirks throughout these parts 
 of the game, however. Jason may get hung up on walls, corners, and invisible walls in several areas. 
 They aren't too common, but everyone will notice these in a play through. Walking around the environments 
 and on the Argos must be mentioned as a part of the gameplay because, for better or for worse, 
 you will be doing quite a bit of it during your time with the game. 
  
  Something else you will be doing a lot of is talking. The only think wrong with the dialogue is 
 that there is slightly too much of it in the game. The dialogue system is modeled after Mass Effect's, 
 which is certainly a good thing, but I think it has even more of it than Mass Effect. All the lines 
 in the game are fully voiced and, just like Mass Effect, you can choose many ways to reply to things, 
 and bring up new topics. In Rise of the Argonauts, your dialogue selections usually align yourself 
 with the four ancient Greek Gods in the game: Ares, Apollo, Athena, and Hermes. The god you are 
 aligned with will effect the leveling up process, but more on that later. The voices in the game 
 are great, with the exception of some townsfolk. The Oracle is a standout, along with most of the 
 main characters. She is a young girl who speaks in a young female voice, a seductive adult voice, 
 and a creepy old voice depending on what she talks about. It sounds great in game and adds a ton 
 to her part and to the game as a whole. 
  
  The last part of gameplay in Rise of the Argonauts is certainly the best, but it is featured the 
 least. Combat in the game is fast, furious, and packs a serious punch. Jason is incredibly fast, 
 hits with amazing force, and is animated very well throughout. Jason is versed with the sword, 
 the spear, and the mace. You can switch between the three at will in every fight, and you will 
 find that they each have their uses. The sword is fast, and is great if your character can move 
 quick, or if you want to overwhelm an opponent with speed. The mace is slow, but very powerful. 
 It packs a punch, and shatters enemy shields in only a few hits. The last, and my personal favorite, 
 the spear, is great because it mixes reach with defense. If you are surrounded, you can keep behind 
 your shield and poke, jab, and stab opponents from afar. The shield, obviously, is intensely important, 
 and is your lifeline in every fight. It is indestructible, and you can even ram and bash opponents 
 with it. Think the movie: 300. When Jason executes particularly brutal attacks, the game will go 
 into slow motion while the blood gushes and the bodies fly. When Jason is almost dead the volume 
 and screen draw out slightly, and a beautiful and intense melody is sung by a women. The effect 
 is amazing, and you feel as if you are starring in your own movie, a la 300. Combat is Rise of 
 the Argonauts is the highlight of the game, and the only problem is that there isn't enough of 
 it throughout.
  
  Your actions and choices in dialogue effect how you can level up in the game. You can select between 
 Apollo, Ares, Hermes, and Athena. They specialize in different areas (sword, shield, mace, and 
 spear, respectively) . You can base your character around one god, or a combination of any of them. 
 Leveling up only makes the combat even more intense, as late in the game you will call down lighting, 
 slow down time, and speed your character up, among other things. It works great, and encourages 
 completion of the game.
  
  The story in Rise of the Argonauts is incredible. It is a take on Ancient Greek mythology along 
 the lines of The Odyssey. It begins with King Jason marrying his beautiful wife Alceme. She is 
 assassinated as Jason's Greek Kingdom, Iolcus, is attacked by a menace of the Greek world: The 
 Black Tongues. Jason cannot let Alceme go, and will go to the ends of the earth to save her. Instead 
 of letting her pass to the afterlife he decides to try to bring her back in any way possible. Jason 
 and his loyal friend Hercules set off to find the Oracle to find out how to do this, while leaving 
 Jason's uncle in charge of the kingdom in the short term. I will spoil nothing else, but you will 
 meet great characters and participate in truly epic battles throughout the game.
  
  Rise of the Argonauts certainly is not perfect. While it is all interesting, you walk and talk 
 too much. There are hiccups in the audio and display, and some corners were obviously cut. The 
 combat and story shine though however, and truly transport you to Ancient Greece and take you for 
 a wild ride. The quality of the story is one of the few great ones in the business. Rise of the 
 Argonauts is a game that simply everyone must play. You will lose yourself for the 15-20 hours 
 it takes to complete the game and, if you are anything like me, you will eagerly await a sequel 
 or a similar game from Liquid Entertainment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhamoui
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 6:13 am PT
Review:  Jason Rise of the Argonauts has a pretty good story and is overall a good play. It has the potential 
 to be one of the amazing classics were it not for a few problems. 
  The fighting in the game is very fun and entertaining with good combo's and death sequences but 
 it somewhat tedious due to a very irritating camera that sometimes hinders you more than the enemies. 
 
  The dialogue at times is repetitive and boring, but overall the story keeps you engaged and entertained 
 and moves at a good pace. 
  The god powers and weapons are also very fun to use, but the graphics are a little weak for a game 
 of this "supposed' magnitude. Looks like something you'd see on a Wii. 
  Overall Rise of the Argonauts is a fun game is you have got the time. Its not a classic but it 
 also isnt as bad as many people say it is. It is similar to Viking: Battle for Asgard, with a much 
 better story. 
  
  Hanny 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rethis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:12 am PT
Review:  Jason is the Hero of Heroes. Leader of the Argonauts and all round bad boy of the Greek Myths.
 
  As far as one can get without being smited by the gods of course.
  Action and Mythos come together in this great new telling of a classic story.
  
  Gameplay: 
 7/10
  The running around is a little redundant. The countryside needs a little more interactivity like 
 Prince of Persia (the x360) . 
  Slightly obvious sidequests and going back and forth from your map was a bit of a nightmare.
 
  Combat was fun. Very approachable. The regions made for interesting scenery but and the story 
 of each region was well thought out.
  character advancement was a real treat to see Too Human made to work. Gets a deduction because 
 of the similarities to Too Human. Still they did all of it better.
  Action is a little sparse. God Powers really had a back seat in the game.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
 
  Iolcus was beautiful. landscapes were awesome all round but Jason's Home was so nice it was tolerable 
 to be lost for like 3 hours (while we figured out how to find you're objectives and read the map) .
 
  Motion capture was above average. Not perfect but still very nice.
  Some of the character design seemed out of place. Pan was really awesome but looked more fantasy 
 than greek Myth alongside the centaurs and the female humans looked more cartoon than the male 
 humans.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  Voice acting was awesome on the part of Jason. Everyone esle was mostly average with a couple but 
 rarely heard poor voice talent. 
  Fighting sounds matched up nice.
  Too much talking. Whoever wrote the game was given 70 of the games time. Should be a little more 
 balanced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Greek mythology has always been rich with amazing stories, tantalizing characters, epic adventures 
 beyond belief, and perils no regular person would ever wish to face alone. For any passionate writer, 
 it's quite inspiring that such strong material came from tales as old as human literature and the 
 dawn of written civilization. 
  Instead of struggling to redefine the wheel, focus on such inspirations to help fuel future adventures 
 in modern day media such as: television, movies, comics, novels, and video games seem like a given. 
 
  Rise of the Argonauts takes on the daunting task of digitalizing King Jason's quest for the Golden 
 Fleece, with hopes that he can resurrect his dead wife. Along the way, he crosses paths with Greek 
 Gods and legendary heroes who assist him in combat and conversation. Unfortunately there is a lot 
 of talking that takes place in this adventure, so for anyone who prefers spoken dialog to tiresome 
 reading, RotA might appease you or completely miss the mark. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  It's hard to resist commenting, but RotA is a prime example of a game that suffers from an extremely 
 slow start. As King Jason, your first task is to defend your kingdom, which is under siege by assassins. 
 This mostly serves as an introduction to the basic controls. With chosen weapon in hand and your 
 trusty family shield in the other; Jason cleans the streets dispersing foes with combos that come 
 from light and heavy attacks, shield parries, rolling maneuvers, and God powers.
  Each attack and maneuver works like a fencing match, you can easily unload on your target with 
 a barrage, but your back and sides will be exposed. Selecting from 3 weapon types: sword equals 
 speed, spear gives reach, and mace defines powers  Jason must approach each bad guy based on their 
 weapon selection and physical traits so that success in battle is never a complete blunder show.
 
  
  Embarking on the real adventure takes Jason and his cohorts to about 4 main locations through out 
 the game. When you cast off on the amazing ship, the Argo, you have the choice of selecting teammates 
 to join King Jason while he investigates the whereabouts of the Golden Fleece. Besides offering 
 their various battle skills, most party members are pretty robotic and work well as decoys so that 
 Jason can chip away at enemy flanks.
  As I mentioned, it's not all button mashing. With the right weapon, you can modify basic attacks 
 so that spears are thrown, maces destroy shields, and swords can lacerate limbs. Fighting with 
 the Greek Gods in your favor, King Jason can dedicate righteous deeds in their name and gain special 
 God powers that can be used in the heat of battle; each skill tree pertaining to a particular God, 
 you have full control of how aggressive or supportive you want Jason to lead. 
  
  VISUALS
  Only a few years ago, when games were revealed in the form of simple screen shots, gamers 
 and journalist had nothing but the imagination to fuel what could eventually be. In most cases, 
 this was exciting and just enough to keep people on their heels. Insert modern day video coverage, 
 story trailers, game play footage, and developer interviews. It's NOT hard to see why most games 
 lose their luster only hours after being released to the gaming public.
  As badly as I want to assume RotA suffers from such an unfair fate, the Gods had no hand in this 
 game's private failures. Greek mythology up close and personal is a double edge sword, which can 
 be very appealing to some audiences while others might bore easily of the strange characters and 
 plain back drops.
  Since Jason seeks information a majority of the game, you do a fair share of conversing with villagers, 
 royalty, foreign creatures, and teammates. Most of them appear pleasant at first glance; it's the 
 lengthy multiple-choice conversations that reveal way too many flaws in rigid animations, distorted 
 body parts, and extremely stale performances. Some areas shine during climatic moments thanks to 
 other decent production values, but not enough to save the eye from feeling cursed. I would say 
 visually the game hits it home on combat, offering a nice range of gruesome attack animations and 
 flashy God powers -- but due to poor camera control and repetitive use of villains, it all ends 
 up feeling like a desperate ground ball to mid-field. 
  
  AUDIO
  Music can only carry a game so far. Tapping into the diverse world of Greek harmonies, you hear 
 quite the pleasing selection of epic battle tunes complimented by soothing melodies that ease tiresome 
 side-quest woes.
  With King Jason being able to interact with just about every background character, teammate, quest 
 related figure, and numerous monologues, the dialog spoken and voices heard through out the game 
 is pretty hefty. To the ear, most of the leading characters fit their visual parts well enough; 
 unfortunately the lack of good animation leaves Jason and the supporting cast appearing very dull 
 and missing out on serious moments with extremely lifeless gestures that send too many mixed signals.
 
  
  EXTRAS
  Dedicating righteous deeds to the Greek Gods is what Rise of the Argonauts thrives on. A good portion 
 of the game will have you talking with other characters, which offers multiple-choice answers. 
 Aggressive, compassionate, humorous, or reasonable, all relate to a particular God and open up 
 some variation in conversations. Not much, but enough to help you gain extra favor with a God. 
 By doing so, you unlock more attacks and God powers that allow for Jason to be a better fighter 
 or supportive leader to his Argonauts. Which all leads back to the battle heavy achievements.
 
  Most of the game you move from one area, talk, engage in brief combat, talk some more, and repeat 
 a number of times until you reach the main objective. This routine becomes mundane pretty quick, 
 but at least you have side-quest at each destination to help pass the time. These chores can sometimes 
 be easy fetch quest or flat out grinding. Either way, you gain favor with the Gods by revealing 
 constellation stars, which serves as the road map to how much you can do at each place before receiving 
 achievements. Bottom line is, explore every new area thoroughly, focus on 2 Gods for complete favor, 
 and try to rake in every kill during combat yourself to guarantee 500-600 points. 
  
  OVERALL
  I've adored Greek mythology since I was a child, and openly admit to referencing a lot 
 of personal created projects based on tales of such mythology. With mountains of material produced 
 directly from such themes and characters, one would assume this subject has been milked dry. In 
 the gaming world, I disagree. Unlike the World War video games that have been flooding the market 
 with various scenarios for the last few years, even with constant criticism, I personally feel 
 Greek mythology offers WAY more potential. If not for the easy source of stories and adventurer's, 
 explore new gaming mechanics. Small scale real time strategy, first-person sword wielding, civilization 
 management, Greek God simulation, even futuristic mythology sounds fun, give me something more 
 -- please!
  
  To brush this rich content aside as unpopular or previously done is not enough to excuse such a 
 crime of lazy ignorance. Maybe Rise of the Argonauts was not the best attempt at tackling such 
 a heavy subject engrossed in Socrates like obscurity. But the foundation is there with solid game 
 play elements, a market brimming with interest, and developers capable at exposing adventure between 
 the lines. Not all bridges are built in one day, but I truly believe Rise of the Argonauts brings 
 us closer to the glory that is most fitting for such awesome material. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damodar_thade
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  The whole idea if a greek RPG i found to be very interesting, then add jason and the argonauts 
 and you got a awsome game just waiting to be made and a great game it is.
  
  The skill tree's are very combat orrientated and very impressive but as some people have said the 
 game itself is very heavy on conversation or that it has to much investigate and conversation elements. 
 I disagree granted there is alot of talking but this is a RPG it comes with the territory i think 
 it needed more action but not at the sake of taking anything away from the game.
  
  The boss fights are often difficult with some of the skills or without having certain god powers 
 the system needs a "respec" option imo, i found nessus very hard on anything but easy and could 
 not be bothered having to play again to take another path so being able to take your points out 
 and put them somewhere else would have been a great help.
  
  Some of the graphics could have been better on the charecters but things like enviroments and jasons 
 armour were done very well the final armour especially i thought was just excellent and could not 
 have been done better.
  
  I would recommend this to ppl who love RPGs and gore ridden violence =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManofMight
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing this game. Im a mythology junkie so this was really fun being able to 
 play against and alongside Hercules, Achilles... interacting with the great Titans. This was a 
 really great game. The only draw back it has is that most of the time your doing more talking than 
 fighting. Although, often times it was intriguing, Id like to see a little more fighting going 
 on, especially during the first part of the game. I didnt really start learning good fighting abilities 
 and different buttons till the latter part of the game. Once you enter combat though, this is the 
 best part of the game, switching weapons at will. The finishing moves are especially cool... when 
 you first do them. Then it just gets old. The ending kinda sucked.. all that work just to see them 
 hug and then look at their friends for 10 seconds. Maybe if they would just let the world be open 
 to travel from city to city. That would be very exciting, and a lot more fun. Overall i give this 
 game 3 stars out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: varkdm
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:16 am PT
Review:  Rise of the Argonauts. X360, PS3, PC.
  
  I was pretty excited when I started to read and watch features and previews on Rise of the Argonauts. 
 I like RPG games a lot, so any new ones are always of interest to me. What this one claimed it 
 was doing, was taking what made Mass Effect such an accomplished game and applying it to a fantasy 
 setting. In this case, the world of Ancient Greek mythology; which considering the richness of 
 the source material, there have been surprisingly few decent games based in this era. The pre-release 
 chatter claims that Rise of the Argonauts sets is a full on RPG, with exciting real time, player 
 skill based combat. It achieves about half of that claim.
  
  The story starts off well enough; you play Jason, King of Iolcus, whose wife, Alseme, is assassinated 
 on their wedding day. Overcome with grief and rage, he vows to find a way to bring her back from 
 the dead, gain revenge on the shadowy cult that killed her and foil whatever their evil plans are. 
 Along for the ride are the Argonauts, a selection of heroes such as Herculues, Pan and Achilles, 
 as well as less well known heroes, or people perhaps known for other things, such as Deadelus (father 
 to Icarus) , Medusa (priestess of Athena) and Argo (builder of the self rowing, self steering ship 
  The Argo.
  Four of the God's take an interest in his quest and decide to aid him- Athena (Wisdom) , Ares (War) , 
 Hermes (Luck) and Apollo (The Sun) . It is the favour of these four gods that set Jason apart from 
 normal folk. They bestow him with unique gifts and abilities before he sets off on his journey, 
 with his loyal friend Hercules by his side. 
  
  The four gods feature throughout the game, rather than experience points, Jason gains favour with 
 them, by achieving or doing certain actions that please them. Completing quests, parts of the main 
 game and killing certain numbers of opponents and in certain ways, all earn Jason achievements. 
 He can then choose to dedicate each of these achievements to one of the four gods. This has the 
 effect of building his favour level with the chosen deity. Gaining levels of favour allow you to 
 purchase either active or passive combat bonuses. It's a nice system and definitely something that 
 the developers have done well with.
  
  The early part of the game starts off promisingly enough. Once the initial fighting in the palace 
 has passed, you are free to roam about, converse with people and start to piece together how you 
 are going to go about getting your wife back. The combat sequences are fairly challenging (although 
 I played it through on the harder setting, I've heard it is far too easy on the default settings) ; 
 combat requires good timing for passive or active blocks and powerful or simple standard or special 
 attacks. There are three weapon choices  the mace, the sword and the spear. This is where the 
 first problem (all be it minor) shows up. By the end of the game it is quite apparent that these 
 weapons are not even. The mace is far superior, easily destroying enemy shields and usually two 
 or three powerful hits will kill most enemies. Added to that, one of its special attacks knocks 
 all foes over around you. The other weapons do have some powerful attacks, but it is nearly always 
 harder work against shielded opponents and they tend not to have attacks that effect more than 
 one or two targets at a time.
  
  On the whole though, combat is fun, offering enough variety and challenge to keep things interesting. 
 It's a shame then, that you so rarely fight anything. By the end of the game I had apparently killed 
 250+ human opponents and many more beasts  it certainly didn't feel like it though. This game 
 definitely needed more combat sections.
  
  So the main focus of the game is the exploration and dialogue, which I guess matches well to the 
 Mass Effect formula. Except that what this game does, is make you appreciate just how easily Bioware's 
 masterpiece could have failed. It's easy to compare these two games, the dialogue system and game 
 structure is basically identical. But where Mass Effect combined high production values, outstanding 
 voice acting, an exceptional script and cutting edge graphics and character animation, Rise reeks 
 of poor quality control, 'average at best' voice acting, poor script and animation that is often 
 atrocious or simply missing all together.
  
  What makes the failings of the Rise dialogue system even worse, is that there is essentially no 
 point to it. In the vast majority of cases, the choices mean absolutely nothing. The outcome is 
 the same regardless. There are two or three exceptions to this, but even those segments can be 
 endlessly repeated until you get the right combination. Because there is only one ending to the 
 game and only one outcome of every encounter, there is no need for a moral system in the game. 
 Instead what they have done, is to assign many of the different choices to the different gods. 
 Choosing them will please that god. This is a actually a nice idea in theory, however as you are 
 told which god a dialogue option will please, you often make the choice based on who you are trying 
 to earn favour with, rather than what you actually might want to say. Combine this with the fixed 
 outcomes and these choices simply become a tactical choice about what abilities you want to gain 
  removing any RPG elements.
  
  The game is broken down into six sections  the "prologue" where you learn about Jason, Alceme, 
 his kingdom Iolcus and how the game functions. Then there are three Islands to explore and quest 
 on, followed by two more locations to quest in. Most of the combat in the game is found in the 
 last two sections of the game, which is unfortunate because they are also the shortest. The three 
 main islands take 2-3 hours each to complete but are largely devoid of combat, save for a few specific 
 encounters and a boss fight or two. Most of your time on these islands is spent walking back and 
 forth between people and locations, talking lots, walking some more, talking a little bit more, 
 a spot of walking is then added followed up with a liberal dose of talking. These segments can 
 take hours and large amounts of time will pass with pretty much nothing happening.
  
  The exploration part of the game is nothing short of a joke. The maps are tightly hemmed in, revealed 
 from the start and full of invisible barriers. They are all actually very small, but still feel 
 big, due to the amount of time you have to run backwards and forwards within them. There is no 
 fast travel system, and many tasks have to be completed in sequence, repeatedly sending you back 
 and forth between the same locations. It's lazy game design and just adds to the frustration of 
 having to get through these sections. If there was some choice in the game, some element of influence 
 you could have over the story and even random encounters and respawns, these sections may not have 
 been so torturous to play  but there is nothing here that makes me think they were a worthwhile 
 addition to the game. It's obvious very early on that there are no choices in this game, so why 
 bother putting in such enormous amounts of conversation and "passive" questing? 
  
  Technically speaking the graphics and sound are adequate. Some areas of the game are perhaps too 
 gloomy but on the whole it looks nice enough. The animation is generally very poor (the combat 
 is well animated, but that is about it) , some dialogue sections appear unfinished, characters are 
 largely unanimated when talking and they couldn't be bothered to animate characters for things 
 like walking up and down stairs, resulting in some very awkward looking movements. There are some 
 major frame rate issues during a few of the big boss fights but generally frame rates are stable 
 elsewhere and load times are generally fast. There are some bugs with dialogue sections getting 
 cut off before they are finished and some dialogue simply not playing at all.
  
  Overall this game is a victim of a lack of understanding about what makes traditional RPGs work. 
 They set out to make an epic RPG with strong action segments, what they've ended up with is a hack 
 n slash with excessive and pointless delays between action sequences. It isn't the worst game I've 
 ever played, but it is memorable only for the lessons it teaches on game design  let's hope the 
 developers learn them if they plan to produce any more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IREDGE
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2009 2:02 am PT
Review:  Sometimes I don't understand what reviewers base their opinion upon when they rate a game. Everywhere 
 I checked this game got a lesser note than some of the games which in my opinion were total flops 
 like Infinite undiscovery (totaly unfinished; gamespot gave it 6.5; quantum of solace Dullest game 
 ever; gamespot: 7. Lately after finishing the latest Tomb Raider, Prince of percia, Dead Space, 
 and Fallout 3, I have been looking for a good adventure and RPG game that I could sink my teeth 
 into. I have tried some of those games that I wouldn't dare buy (infinite undiscovery) being one 
 of them.
  So far, This one is the most immersive I found out of the rest of the worst. OK, let's face it, 
 it's very linear, but I think it's got the right ingredients to get you glued for a few hours at 
 the time. It's good graphics, the combat is not as dull as people at IGN and Gamespot would want 
 you to beleive, it's got a great setting, misterious Islands and secrets to unravel, and the musical 
 score is brilliant.
  So why the hell did this get a lesser note that some of the most borring, ugly, and unfinished 
 games I've tried in all my life.
  OK it's got technical issues which hopefuly will get fixed with an upcoming patch, but still, at 
 least a real effort has been put into it. And given the mar of crapy games that floods my collection 
 of xbox 360 Games I think this one deserves more respect for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glendale1
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I expected this game to be horrible, what with all the bad reviews I read. It wasn't. It was even 
 fun enough for me to play through twice, which I usually only do with games I really like. I didn't 
 REALLY like this one, but I did like it enough. I liked the premise. Too few games are based on 
 the Olympian gods. It is an interesting premise inherent with drama, adventure, super powers... 
 More games should capitalize on the rich and plentiful storylines available there.
  
  Anyway... The characters are great. Jason (the protagonist) is what you want him to be. Either 
 kind, wise, calculating or a simple warrior (or all of the above) . It is your choice. Of course 
 the powers and abilities you desire to possess may have a slight impact on what you choose him 
 to be as you receive these abilities from the favor of the gods that rule those particular aspects.
 
  
  You progress in the game by achievements based on battle moves and victories, and/ or behaviors. 
 Battle moves can be tricky since there is no real training module and you must glean the trick 
 of some moves on your own or in case of a couple: from the on screen tip during battle at the beginning 
 the game. These tips only show once and for only a few seconds so pay close attention. Your weapons 
 are the spear, blade, and hammer and there are achievements attached to each one. There is a lot 
 of character interaction within the game so you make sure and talk to everyone who will talk to 
 you. Your dialogue choices lead you into or away from achievements of their own as well as to some 
 new armor or weapons.
  
  A note on the saving; you can save anywhere even when you are in dialogue! Of course if you reload 
 you start out at your last checkpoint or autosave before your manual save, but it is still very 
 handy if you don't like the way your dialogue choices are going. You can even save in the middle 
 of cutscenes without skipping them like you would in other games. A neat trick if you ask me. You 
 can still bypass scenes by hitting "A" if you like.
  
  The environment is pretty, like the characters but it is also restrictive and nearly linear. I 
 am not a big fan of invisible walls, in fact I hate them and this game has them in scores. Oy! 
 the map. The map is horrible by any standard. One of the worst I have ever seen. Nearly useless. 
 Once you leave any city you cannot return there so make sure and do everything you can there before 
 you leave. Additionally, you are sometimes whisked away to the ship or blocked from key areas once 
 you have completed the main storyline so make sure you complete all the substory plotlines before 
 you finish the main one as you cannot often move around freely in this game. 
  
  The fighting is fun. You have your choice of 3 weapons each with at least 3 moves and even more 
 combination moves so there is plenty to experiment with. I wish Jason were allowed to fight without 
 allies just so you could prolong the battles. They seem a little thin in the game. You health bar 
 is non-existent as far as I can tell although there is something about the HUD in the options that 
 I didn't bother with. Learn to dodge and block and you should never have a problem with dying. 
 If you reach the "State of Grace" where everything slows down and you hear ominous music, then 
 concentrate on getting away from your enemy at least until the state passes.
  
  The god powers are fun but awkward to use in the middle of action. Find them located in the "Aspects" 
 section by using the "Start" button. The passive powers work best. Healing is a must so be nice 
 to Apollo and purchase at least that one from him. There are some other must have passive powers 
 (Gain health with each kill, that sort of thing) , so make sure and check them all out beforehand 
 so you know how to progress toward them. Check out the "Stars" section and look at each star in 
 each constellation so that you know what achievements you are shooting for. You also get credit 
 for finishing the constellations themselves. When you accomplish each feat in the description of 
 the star you get points to use to purchase favor from the gods to use to further purchase the individual 
 active or passive powers. It sounds complex but it really is pretty obvious once you start playing.
 
  
  This game is fickle. It cannot decide whether to be roleplay or action/ adventure. It is a bit 
 of both which is both enticing and frustrating. On the roleplay side, you have lots of dialogue 
 and character leveling, but no inventory and very little flexibility on your choices and development. 
 On the action side, there is too much talk and not enough action. The battles seem a little to 
 easy with only the bosses giving you any real challenge.
  
  Overall, I liked the game. It has some new tweaks that are interesting. If the near misses would 
 have hit home, it could have been a great game. The linear layout is too restrictive and would 
 have to be changed for any real recommendation. Rent it and you will be satisfied if not excited. 
 Buy it and you will be disappointed if not crestfallen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  When this was first announced I had very high expectations but after I bought it and tried out 
 the first few minutes I was totally disillusioned. I shelved the game for a few weeks and just 
 recently made the resolution to trade it in towards my SF IV reservation. But before I did I thought 
 I'd give it one more chance. I popped it in expecting to tire of it quickly and have it traded 
 by noon.
  
  I played it for 4 hours.
  
  Ok, there are some graphical issues. Strictly speaking it is just not up to PS3/360 standards. 
 It is comically pathetic to see Jason run downstairs. Not being able to look up at the sky is kind 
 of annoying. Having to run ALL over the palace again and again IS annoying. But despite all of 
 that this game is FUN. Really fun.
  
  Some reviewers have lamented the character interaction in the game. Too much talking is the common 
 complaint. I fall into the old school RPG demographic. I actually like talking to characters and 
 fleshing out stories. In any decent story fighting is an element, not the entire narrative. And 
 speaking of the story I was hooked almost immediately following the tutorial, which was sadly where 
 I stopped the first time. 
  
  Musically the game is amazing. If you liked the music in Gladiator expect to love this score. It 
 does get a little repetitive but only when you're not involved in plot advancement.
  
  This is not the game of the year... or even the game of the month, but if you give it some time 
 I think you'll find it has the power to draw you in. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis8
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is this game is awesome. I was anticipating this game ever since I heard about it, 
 being a fan of Greek mythology. When I read the GS review I was stunned and thought this game would 
 be a letdown. Turns out I was wrong. I saw the game being sold for $42 equivalent where I live 
 so I picked it up anyway. I dunno what game GS was playing but Rise of the Argonauts is, in my 
 opinion, a great game. Lets break it down:
  
  
  Story:
  You play as King Jason of Iolcus. It's your wedding day and your wife just got assassinated before 
 your very eyes. You fight the intruders in your palace and discover that a group called the Blacktongues 
 is responsible for her death. You set out on a journey to find a way to bring her back to life. 
 You recruit Hercules and Argo as the first members of the Argonauts and set off to Delphi. After 
 consulting with the oracle of Apollo, you discover that the golden fleece is the only way to bring 
 her back to the mortal world but you must round up the bloodline decendants of some of the Olympic 
 gods before the way is opened. This brings you to various locations in Greece where you must find 
 out and rid the troubles in the land before you can progress, while finding new allies along the 
 way. Though the story doesn't fully follow the story of Jason and the Argonauts, it gives a good 
 excuse to go searching in alot of great locales and makes each environment unique from each other. 
 Overall the story was great, but the ending will leave one wanting for more.
  
  
  Graphics:
  I found the graphics jawdropping. Don't believe people who say this is last gen stuff. 
 No last gen console can produce these graphics. All the characters are beautifully rendered and 
 the animations in combat are astounding. Though I did find the characters to be a bit stiff during 
 dialogue interactions, and the game could have had better facial expressions. Also, there are some 
 issues with clipping during conversations and sometimes the game will get unsteady framerates even 
 when out of combat. But these minor glitches can be overlooked compared with the other portions 
 of the game. Overall, the graphics are good, but it could use a bit more on the performance side.
 
  
  
  Gameplay: 
  The game is focused on 2 aspects. Dialogue and combat. Going to each area has you interacting with 
 NPC's to perform side quests and the main mission. When you interact during dialogue, there are 
 a good number of options, each one favoring a Olympic god. Whichever choice you make, there are 
 no consequences, except you gain favor with that god, giving you more aspect points to improve 
 your combat prowess (more on that later) . Also, when you complete side quests and missions, you 
 gain deeds which you can offer to any Olympic god, further giving you more aspect points. Now the 
 bread and butter of the game is the combat. If the dialogue can be compared to Mass Effect or KOTOR, 
 then the combat can be compared to God of War. The combat is fast and furious, combining melee 
 combat with god powers. When engaging the opponent in melee, you have 3 weapon choices and a indestructable 
 shield. The sword is fast and good against the spear. The spear is medium ranged and good against 
 the mace. And the mace is a powerful weapon that is good against shield wielding foes, and personally 
 my favorite weapon (watching heads fly in slow motion never gets old) . You acquire different types 
 of these weapons as you go along the game, each having a different effect, but you only have the 
 same shield throughout the game. In addition, you acquire different armor sets in the game that 
 also give certain bonuses. So, you can acquire a armor early in the game, and still use it for 
 the rest of the game if you find the bonus more useful than other armors. The god powers in the 
 game also give spice to combat. Such as, powers that can petrify your foes on hit, make your weapons 
 surge with lightning, call upon the power of Apollo for healing and damage to foes, or making you 
 fast while your opponents move at a sluggish pace. Combine that with the amazing boss battles. 
 Each boss has a attack pattern that you have to figure out before you can defeat him, and no two 
 boss battles are alike, except maybe when you have to fight some of them again hehe. Overall, i 
 find the gameplay engaging.
  
  
  Sound:
  I find the music to be alright, I usually don't take too much notice of the music but it isn't 
 bad at all, but nothing memorable either. The man responsible for the score of 300 is the same 
 composer for this game. Now I found the voice acting to be superb. I don't know what GS was thinking 
 when they said Jason didn't deliver. I feel the voice actor was fitting for the role of Jason, 
 being a stern but loyal, just, and courageous warrior. The only person who I thought had an annoying 
 voice was Hercules. I dunno, his voice always reminds me of the "all brawns, no brain" stereotype. 
 Overall, the sound is excellent.
  
  
  Replay Value:
  The game will last you around 20-30 hours and a bit more for completionists. Once you complete 
 the story, theres only other difficulty options to choose from but nothing else special. There's 
 alot of crazy achievements to be found, such as listening to an annoying little brat sing a very 
 annoying song for a couple of minutes. Other than that, most achievements follow the story line 
 and just requires you to complete parts of the game, while others require you to perform tasks 
 such as kill 100 Ionians or such. As well as completing all the aspects of a certain Olympic god. 
 Overall, it has good replay value. 
  
  
  Verdict:
  The game is a worthy addition to anyone's game library. As long as you can look past minor bugs, 
 and a lacking ending, I'm sure any action-RPG fan will find something to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokemedot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  well the gamespot review says too much time talking but thats not a bad thing. When the talking 
 does almost nothing to change the storie line thats a bad thing and i think thats what gamespot 
 is trying to say. There are a few times were the convesation leads to somthing cool like punching 
 somone in the face, but ultimatly the other choices will lead to the same thing. The combat system 
 is decent but once you completly finishone gods talent spec there is nothing making you want to 
 keep making the gods choices. Good game overall but not a 9 or 10 gamespot likes to rate things 
 low but this crap compared to some other action RPGs. The game isn't hard when done right there 
 was maybe a few parts that were a pain in the ass. But i really wish they waited the extra month 
 and released it in mid to end January. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kutchij1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  great story and game the character development of choosing what God you want to align with is awesome 
 the creatures you will fight in it are great to from the epic battle with Medusa to the fight to 
 the death in the Arena with Achilles himself the game will immerse you into a world of Greek mythology 
 this game is a great rpg but its more than that it is also a sword fighting, mace bashing, spear 
 throwing master peace. must play for any real fan of rpgs the graphics are great in the gam, e the 
 frame rate drops a little bit at some times but not enough to damage the game play expereince. 
 the story is so in depth and involving that it feels like your in a movie and your the main character, 
 you can feel the emotion Jason can feel when the assassin kills his wife and when he comes to the 
 end of his journey and he returns to his homeland if their ever was a definition for an immersive 
 game this would be it.!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_Assassine
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:12 pm PT
Review:  As I sayed not a bad game, tha graphics are quite good, performance is good, the fights are not bad, especially 
 when you take a mace and destroy the guys head like it was a melon, or cut him in half with your 
 sword. They had a good idea with this game, I personally dont have anything big against it, but you 
 have to know at least the most important things from the Greek mythology to play this game in its 
 full shine. Also the bad thing is you cant pick up the weapons of the dead enemy bodies, there is 
 no looting, and theres no currency, so that automaticly means you cant buy anything. Thats what really 
 desepointed me. The producers of this game sayed that this will be an RPG with elements of action 
 game, but my personal oppinion is that they made an action game with elements of RPG. The good thing 
 about this game is that you get godly powers as you progress in the game, and you can choose wich 
 god-s is-are going to help you on your path. The story is sort of been there done that like saving 
 your girlfriend when she is sopposed to die opposing the will of gods. Now this was perfectly reallised (with 
 the exeption of the girlfriend part) in the God of War, but here... well here you dont carry two flaming 
 swords around and you dont get attacked by freakin monsters or pissed off gods that will do anything 
 in their power to prevent you from reaching Zeus. All in all not a bad game ,and if you like Greek 
 mythology this deffinitly the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 11:55 am PT
Review:  I consider myself to be rather well informed about upcoming games but theres always a few 
 that manage to creep up out of nowhere, for me Rise of the Argonauts is one of those games. Very 
 loosely based off some ancient Greek mythology, Rise of the Argonauts tells a tail of Jason and 
 his companions in their quest for the golden fleece which the astute amongst you may remember as 
 an item in God of War 2. Im a total sucker for any Greek mythology, even when it is rather 
 twisted from the original tales theres always a whole lot of back story that makes you feel 
 like your playing in a world full of rich back story. Its also easy to forgive the lack 
 of accuracy in the retelling of these stories as who wants a story about Hercules killing his first 
 children and taking many male lovers? Actually dont answer that, I dont want to know.
 
  
  Everything begins with the assassination of your wife on your wedding day, Jason becomes rather 
 aggravated by this and sets out for revenge while still determined that there must be a way to 
 bring back his wife. The story is all laid out rather quickly and doesnt offer much in the 
 way of surprises, youll quickly find that you need to recover the descendents of three gods 
 and use them to recover the golden fleece. Any option for open ended mission structure begins and 
 ends with your choosing which descendant you go after first. Its all a rather predictable 
 story thats clearly laid out for a video game; initial mission, 3 quests to find the descendants, 
 mission after everyone's together, final mission. 
  
  Almost right away youre thrown into some rudimentary God of War style combat with some familiar 
 controls; weak attack, strong, dodge and block. At the beginning although everything appears to 
 control rather well and you have 3 weapons, it doesnt seem very deep or extensive, no real 
 combo system and you simply either block attack or dodge attack. Fortunately the combat does get 
 increasingly more interesting as you develop powers by devoting your deeds to the four gods. Ill 
 go into deeds a little later, but once youd devoted some deeds you get to choose aspects 
 from the four available skill trees, pick a few level one skills and the level 2 bracket opens 
 and so on. It seems a little complicated on paper, but it actually works out pretty well and most 
 importantly it adds a lot of diversity to the combat. Some aspects build up your existing skills, 
 others can be mapped to the Dpad and used as god powers. God powers take a short while to charge 
 up but being able to open up a black hole above you and suck enemies in or throw lightning and 
 turn your foes to stone sure does mix up the combat and keep things interesting. The big disparity 
 between something like God of War and Rise of the Argonauts is that instead of a game full of combat 
 with brief pauses, youre only occasionally treated to any combat, epically after the first 
 battle.
  
  Once youre through your first battle Rise of the Argonauts transforms into something more 
 akin to Mass Effect than youd at first expect, lots of people to talk to and the rather 
 iconic radial dialog menu. I mentioned before how Greek mythology is rather a fascination of mine 
 and I appreciate a game that goes a little slower to build up the experience, but Rise of the Argonauts 
 takes it a little too far. After the first combat youll be wondering around Iolcus traveling 
 from one side of the map to the other on several occasions to complete quests, now I know that 
 were talking 6th century Greece here and town planning has surely come a long way, but whoever 
 designed this city should be sent to the gallows! Navigation has to be achieved without any mini-map, 
 or full map hot button so trying to find your way around is often only possible by repeated trips 
 through the menu to pull up a map. Perhaps if the regions werent so tedious or difficult 
 to navigate then the story sections wouldnt feel so long and strangely the worst example 
 of this behavior hits you right at the beginning of the game.
  
  In the cities you visit youll find plenty of little side quests that will occasionally provide 
 you with new armor or weapons but more likely will be the gift of a completed deed that can be 
 devoted to the deity of your choice. The radial dialog menu often allows you to honor one of the 
 four gods by reflecting their virtues in your response; follow the path of Athena and give justice, 
 Allollo for compassion, Hermies for cunning or Aries if you just want to act like an ass. By devoting 
 deeds from completed quests, general achievements or following the virtues you can unlock the abilities 
 mentioned earlier and toughen up Jason for the fights ahead. These dialog sequences arent 
 written partially well and acting follows suit with a rather mediocre performance, these dialog 
 sequences are often spoilt even further by the soundtrack and glitches. While theres nothing 
 exactly wrong with the musical score it doesnt seem to know when its not wanted, 
 a powerful part of the tune will flair up in the middle of some dialog partially drowning out the 
 voice work, other times the speaker of a line of dialog may stand stiff as a board with only his 
 lips moving giving the occasional feeling your using a 6 year old game engine with high resolution 
 graphics. The game engine shows plenty of faults outside of dialog but mostly with the way the 
 characters move and feel like their skating across the floor. Graphically everything looks fine, 
 but there are some deeper issues at play here.
  
  People looking for a fast action game will be disappointed by Rise of the Argonauts despite how 
 good the combat does eventually become its just too few and far between. Rise of the Argonauts 
 is worth a play though if you are the more patient RPG type who can put up with the many failings 
 then youll at least find some joy as having Hercules as a trusty sidekick. 10-15 hours of 
 time should see the average player through from start to finish, but lack of any real effect from 
 your actions stifles replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreddyp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:40 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of mythology and epic adventures, so I was really looking forward to this game; I also 
 wandered why there wasn't more buzz for it. Once I realized how much running in circles I had to 
 do and there was no map, I started to understand why the game wasn't in high regard. There wasn't 
 enough fighting for my tastes, but I never got bored with it, like a lot of hack & slash games. 
 Those are my only real complaints. 
  
  The graphics are pretty tight and the characters are interesting. The voice acting is kinda stiff, 
 but I skip those anyway. I really like the way your deeds and speech give you godlike powers and 
 attributes. It's similar to Mass Effect, but the combat is different and you have NO control over 
 your group. 
  
  Switching weapons on the fly is pretty fun and the slow mo kills look pretty cool. Each weapon 
 serves different purposes and can used in combos. You can also upgrade each type of weapon.
  
  The story isn't completely accurate and it starts too slow, but it gets better on your travels. 
 The voice acting is bland, but not bad. 
  
  I don't think it has much replay value, but it's definitely worth a rental, if you like adventure 
 games. If you aren't into RPGs it might not be your thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afroloq1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I really don't have too much to say about the game but that doesn't mean it's a bad score and truthfully 
 it doesn't deserve some of the scores that I have seen given in the reviews for this game.
  
  For the unititiated, this game takes on the story telling of Jason and the Argonauts as Jason 
 tries to resurrect his dead wife as told in a great beginning cutscene.
  
  This game is pretty much your standard hack and slash fare which upon playing you may ask yourself 
 why couldn't Too Human be this way or why wasn't there a 300 game made based on this?
  
  The controls are pretty straightforward and truthfully, it's poor man's God of War.
  
  However 
 what the game lacks in the 'excitability' department it makes up in storytelling and even that 
 is a mixed bag. It's done based on the same ideology of Mass Effect where all the dialogue is spoken 
 and it's pretty decently done, however, I really wished that the characters didn't look so static 
 as they talked. And there is a LOT of talking and you can also opt to speed thru some of the dialogue 
 just by pushing the B button. One thing that is cool some of your decision does have somewhat of 
 an affect on the game but mostly it's thru acheivements that you earn as well as pleasing the gods.
 
  
  Graphically speaking, for a non triple A title, it's a gorgeous game.... when you stand still or 
 watch a cut scene, but moving sometimes there is a loss of framerate and you can see 'white panels' 
 where there are no seams (it's pretty ahrd to describe unless you are playing it) in some outdoors 
 parts but sometimes it's pretty un noticable.
  
  As far as the sounds, not pretty bad... the music feels like a B rate Greek epic and the sound effects 
 aren't all that bad for this game.
  
  Overall it's not a bad game, it's pretty decent and you can ramp the difficulty up or down as you 
 see fit and it's not particulary overwhelming. This is a game that you can play at your leisure 
 after the CoDs and GoWs have been played and mastered.
  
  the only reason why I couldn't rate this higher is because for a game that is a standard game of 
 this type there was no mini map nor marker in the game to show you where you were going and it's 
 sorely needed here. It's kind of frustrating to have to pause to look at the map and go back into 
 you rplay when you get lost.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marianox1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  Mix Diablo 2 and God of War, then you got Rise of the Argonauts. Any fan of either game will enjoy 
 playing this game.
  In every battle you will need to think what you're doing, or you will probably die. The story is 
 very good, though is not The Lord of The Rings. In the game you will have the opportunity to see 
 how many of the greek mythology heroes and legends merge in the story or have a side story.
  The graphics are AWESOME. The game runs very well and looks amazing.
  Controls are excelent but 
 not perfect.
  I would have preferred a free camera like world of warcraft and such, but well, it's ok.
  
 
  When you start the game, it seems like another god of war. When you see the gameplay videos, you 
 can't feel the game. Once you play it, you'll start geting into the history and the great battles, 
 and you will see the real value of this game. This game has a LOT to offer, and you will see it.
 
  
  I assure you, you won't regret playing this game.
  The only complain that I have is that i has a tendency to crash when talking to people. But you 
 will forgive this in time. I hope they fix it soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xurtch
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Why do people and game websites like gamespot and ign give this game such a suckky review... I 
 love the game! I love the slice n' dicing of bodies and pulpin heads, fighting is awesome. Ya there 
 is a lot of talking and walking but who cares when sooner or later you'll fight a big fun innovative 
 fight. The boss battles are sweet take sometimes a bit but can be really thrilling. The only flaws 
 i say are the long talks and walks, and Medusa i thought is suppossed to be beautiful but in this 
 game down right butt-ugly, and the graphics aren't amazing and totally cool, but they're good. 
 The weapons of mace, sword, and spear are sweet, and the armor looks cool as you go. The weapons 
 also improve as you go, and all have weaknesses and strengths. The gods aspects and dialogue is 
 pretty cool and all the god powers are sick. I love watching the cutscenes and the fatal kills. 
 Also the Achievements are well put together and go along with the story:) I suggest at least go 
 and rent it to try it out:) But if you like it BUY IT!!!! It is worth $60 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  I agree with most of the GS review don't find that the drawbacks they list are nearly as detrimental 
 to the game play as the they make it out to be. My one quarrel with their review is the critique 
 of the voice acting. I find that the voice acting and dialogue is actually very good and completely 
 consistent with the style of acting in the Ray Harryhausen films. That's not to say that it's Lawrence 
 Oliver doing Shakespeare, by no means. But if you enjoyed those movies, you will feel like you're 
 playing through one of them. And that takes me to my other point, the story is very good and keeps 
 you interested. I find the combat to be a little stiff and less responsive than I would prefer; 
 but I don't think that combat is the ultimate strength of this game. I really believe that the 
 goal of this game is to make you feel like you've been plunked down into a Jason and the Argonauts 
 movie and you're working your way through it. You meet various characters, learn quite a but about 
 Greek Mythology, and work to save your princess. It's a classic! I tend to agree with the assessment 
 that it's like Mass Effect set in Greek Myth; however, I Mass Effect was a much larger game with 
 a more sophisticated story line as well as character development and combat system. But still, 
 ROTA is a fun game and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormShadowNF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  If you like God of War you will like this game. I will say the reviews for this game are all B. S. 
 I doubt anyone played this game. As for the frame rate etc. Maybe the people who write video game 
 reviews need to play the game. They're always rushed to write a review. Play the game you will 
 not be disappointed. Most reviews of the game are horrible and make no sense to me at all. Generally 
 I listen to the people only. Thank god bc I would have missed out on this great RPG adventure. 
 I hope this helps. I have heard people say the graphics are last generation that is B. S. not one 
 last gen console could ever produce these graphics. I give it:
  
  Graphics: 8
  Game play:8
  Boss Battles: 9
  Length: 9
  Fun: 8
  
  The game is fun and you get to pick 
 which people go into battle with you. Your character has cool and unique ways to kill. I like they 
 way they did the battle animations they're right on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearjammer188
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Argonauts is one Game that talks to much the frist 3 hours of play most Gamers will stop playing 
 boring, Lot of talking walking around without seeing Battle that much. After the frist 3 hours 
 things pick up like you can Earn god powers this is cool very cool to watch on the battlefield. 
 Also you see more battletime. The Boss fights are ok not the best. Graphics over all are ok again 
 not the best same goes for the Music just ok. I do wish Codemasters would of done things diffrent 
 we could of had a Awsome Argonauts Game. Frist off i think making it a R. P. G. is a Goof of sorts. 
 Been so much better if like Castlevania type Game. So we have a good Game but not Great oh well, 
 Argonauts is worth a Rent a Buy for 29 bucks are so not 59. No replay value for the Argonauts cant 
 see anyone going through it again are why would anyone want to. I say Rent frist give it 3 hours 
 of play to grow on you. might find Argonauts not a bad Game at all. Be warned lots of talking. 
 Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimeLazarus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I had such high hopes for this game. Unfortunately, unpolished animations, visual quirks, and uninspired 
 (and completely drawn-out) dialogue break up the gritty flow of what could have been a satisfying 
 action RPG.
  
  Don't get me wrong, Rise of the Argonauts could be far worse than it is. There are a few aspects 
 that make it a fun and interesting game ---but you have to wade through a river of monotony to find 
 those parts.
  
  Honestly, it's like they tried to blend God of War with Mass Effect. As brlliant as that might 
 sound, the game ends up being a bloody amateur on both counts.
  
  The true strength of the game is the combat, but you only get bits of it between painfully drawn-out 
 conversations with all sorts of characters. The only compaint with the combat itself is it is slightly 
 clunky animation-wise (like much of the rest of the game) but really the combat would make this 
 a great game if they had emphasized it more.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: indie1cowgirl
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game combines basic Greek mythology with a rpg style game. It has a good combat system that 
 is mainly melee with the option of 3 main weapons. The way that the story mixes with combat is 
 one of my favorite things about the game. The story uses Greek mythology so for someone who likes 
 these myths this game will be perfect for you. There is a lot of conversations but through these 
 you can work towards leveling up. By pleasing his patron gods Jason gains new skills and God Powers, 
 which are very helpful in a few of the fights. Plus what other game can you fight with Hercules 
 and Achilles as well as many other characters. Also the locations that the game takes you to look 
 great. Overall this is a great combination of an excellent story and great combat all located in 
 the rich atmosphere of Ancient Greece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarhead20
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  I played this game maybe with too high expectations and so my harsh judgement on this one, don' 
 get me wrong the game its by no means bad it has a solid combat system that is very fun though 
 sometimes you just end up mashing the attack button until everyone dies but there are also good 
 looking combos and realistic damage detection so in few words the combat is good, very good maybe 
 the best part of this game. 
  
  One thing that kinda let me down was the fact that the worlds are so linear, you can barely or 
 not at all interact with the enviroments, which by the way look pretty good, and most of the time 
 the "RPG" parts of the game consist in going and talk with someone then go kill many bad guys or 
 fetch somethings and thats all that there is to it, with this great history and universe the game 
 could had been a little more open ended so you dont feel like you're just passing mission 1,2,3 
 etc., instead of being Jason in an epic journey.
  
  Something that is well implemented and in fact helps getting into the character are the god powers, 
 there are many possible combinations and some of them alter the gameplay giving the sensation of 
 power increase through the deeds you've done. Above of that there are'nt a great number of different 
 weapons or armor but the ones that are there are pretty cool looking and have different abilties. 
 
  
  Finally about this game I can say that its in his very core a good game, it has good visuals with 
 impressive, although untouchable, enviroments, a good story and specially a great and fun combat 
 system just that I can give more to a game that I really hoped to be one great RPG instead of a 
 good action game with some rpg twists in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deccamann
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of Greek and Roman Mythology. It's a great RPG that shouldn't take too 
 long to beat. The graphics are great as is the sound * (sometimes the music is too repetitive) but 
 you definetely get the feel; somewhat like the Gladiator or Troy movies. It's compelling and the 
 protagonist (Jason) is a likable character. The story is predictable from the get go with a few 
 twists. The game's only flaws are the controls and camera every once in awhile. I also think Hercules 
 looks like an abomination. I think they used Lou Ferigno as the model for the character. It even 
 sounds like him.
  Rise of the Argonauts is an epic journey and has a compelling storyline. If you've ever had any 
 interest in ancient Greek mythology or bloody gladiator battles, this might be the game for you. 
 My other flaw in the game is Achilles. He reminded me way too much of Brad Pitt thanks to the movie. 
 It sure was fun kicking his butt though! 
  I have beat many RPG's this year including Fallot 3, Fable 2, Viking Oblivion and several others. 
 I can honestly say I had more enjoyment out of this than all of the others. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy098
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  In general, it's a God of War clone, although not nearly as good. After spending about an hour, 
 hour and a half on the starting map it felt like I have gotten nothing done. Constant backtracking 
 make this game take much longer then it should, and kills any idea that this game is fun. Graphics 
 are below average to average, with plenty of jagged lines. Also, expect to see plenty of frame 
 rate slowdowns in crowded areas. Combat is ok, nothing special, but has plenty of gore. The map 
 is next to useless. There is no in game minimap to see where you're going. To do so, you have to 
 pause the game and select map. This really breaks up the flow of the game. The story seems decent 
 enough, but nothing that really makes me want to see what's next. You can make conversation choices 
 which influence the stars and the gods, and do deeds that you can dedicate to them to unluck your 
 god powers. The ending also left a lot to be desired after all the time that I put in. On the plus 
 side, you can level your character and get more weapons and armor for him. I was really looking 
 forward to this game, but the low quality of the graphics, constant backtracking, and lack of a 
 working map ruin it.
  It's worth a rent, but that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ohgod247
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of an RPG fan, but after giving Fallout 3 a chance and absolutely loving it I thought 
 maybe I could get into playing RPGs. I picked this game up having high hopes and was let down. 
 You start off fighting enemies and the combat is great in my opinion. It flows well and is pretty 
 gruesome. Then you try to explore a bit and constantly run into invisible barriers. You talk to 
 a character and get an objective then have to find it on the map. To get to the map you have to 
 press start, scroll over to the map, then press A for the map to come up. This gets a bit tedious 
 having to do all this over and over again to see where your at and where to go. It would have been 
 better if you just had to press select or something for the map to come up. Then you'll start noticing 
 that the framerate is pretty bad. It seems at every turn the game chops up or pauses with a "loading" 
 icon at the bottom corner of the screen. The graphics aren't that great, so I don't see why this 
 has to happen. On your way to objectives you will have these long conversations with different 
 characters and choose how to answer them or respond. After a while this gets very boring. I want 
 to fight and progress in the game. Not talk and have boring conversations with uninteresting and 
 stupid characters. Maybe RPGs aren't my thing. I didn't expect much out of a game made by Codemasters 
 and have been reminded once again that most of there games aren't that great. I'd say rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jensen973
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Since i have first read about this game i was waiting for it, the team that have created it have 
 done a great job.
  
  Story- The Greek Mythology it's a very solid one, all the heroes, all the creatures and the Gods 
 are nicely done and have a very good place in this game. The Black Tongues order are a very nice 
 addition to the story, great history behind them, there are islands that you will visit and probably 
 like very much, everyone of them with her own well defined environment.
  
  Heroes- All the heroes have there own, solid story behind them, and believe me, there are a lot 
 of heroes and nice story to hear about in this game, There abilities are well done.
  
  Weapons- the weapons are many every one it's well defined, the sword it's fast, the spear it's 
 long and can be used to reach enemies at a distance, the experience withe the mace it's abso ... 
 lutly exquisite, the shield it's doing he's work, everything it's nice.
  
  Abilities- There are some very nice abilities, you will see witch, i don't wanna spoil your experience, 
 suffice to say that the Gods are rewarding you at every step.
  
  Graphics- Well, the graphics are looking ok, with the Unreal engine we all now from countless games, 
 but it's doing he's job well, there are some breathtaking views from time to time, the ship it's 
 looking great, the characters are well defined, the fighting scenes are great looking thanks to 
 the slow motion killing blow, and to the effects added to the weapons and spells.
  
  Sound- The sound it's great, good voice acting, from Jason in special, great music, nice sounds 
 in the environment .
  
  Gameplay- I am using a Xbox 360 for Windows Controller to play this game on the pc and i can say 
 that i am satisfied, the camera sometimes it's jumpy, there are some glitches and clippings [A 
 glitch is a short-lived fault in a system.] :D, but there will be probably corrected by a patch, 
 i hope, the gameplay it's linear, go there, do that, the only problem it's that you don't have 
 an ingame minimap, you have to go to menu and see the map, but it's ok anyway, the fights are great 
 as i'v said earlier.
  
  Conclusion: 
  Rise of the Argonauts it's a nice, well done game, there some faults but we can get over them, 
 with a great story and addictive gameplay, with nicely done characters and good music, this game 
 it's the game many have waited for, if you like Greek Mythology and the God of War fighting stile 
 you can buy this game. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
