-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Conspiracy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/robertludlumsthebourneconspiracy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple, yet immensely satisfying fisticuffs.
 Brutal takedowns.
 Tense music and great sound effects.
 Captures the excitement of the films.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gunplay hamstrings replay value.
 Collecting passports to unlock boss fights is tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.4, 66 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 1,356 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: High Moon Studios
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jason Bourne's quick-fisted head-busting combat style makes the transition to consoles with panache. 
 

  Since the release of  The Bourne Identity  in 2002, Robert Ludlum's titular amnesiac spy has thrilled 
 movie audiences with fast, brutal combat and tense action sequences. When developer High Moon Studios 
 set out to create a game starring Jason Bourne, it drew on the electric choreography of the movies 
 as well as the robust world of Ludlum's novels. Perhaps this is why The Bourne Conspiracy shakes 
 off the mantle of disappointment worn by most movie tie-in games and proves itself worthy of entry 
 into the Bourne canon. The exciting and deeply awesome hand-to-hand combat system expertly captures 
 the pugilistic prowess of the 30-million-dollar weapon and, while complemented by serviceable gunplay 
 and rich environments, is reason enough to get in on this conspiracy.  

  The plot of The Bourne Conspiracy follows Bourne's quest to learn who he is and why heavily armed 
 men are after him, and it's structured around the key action sequences from  The Bourne Identity 
 . Interspersed throughout these familiar missions are playable flashbacks that hark back to the 
 time before Bourne's amnesia when he had no qualms about leaving trails of bodies and bullets en 
 route to his objectives. There are also video cutscenes between missions that, while well produced, 
 just seem to drive home the fact that both Matt Damon and Franka Potente are much more attractive 
 than the prerendered characters that replace them.  

           Here's a glimpse of the proverbial 'other guy.'      

  In The Bourne Conspiracy, as 
 in the Bourne films, the hand-to-hand fights are fast, exciting, and brutal. The beauty of the 
 combat here is that it doesn't demand any complex user input, so you'll be focused on the immediate 
 action rather than trying to recall elaborate button combinations. There are two attacks available 
 to you -- light and heavy -- and a block button. Attack combos consist of up to three consecutive light 
 or heavy attacks, so there are only eight possible combinations. Throwing these combos down will 
 make up the bulk of your fighting strategy, though you'll occasionally want to unleash a charged 
 attack because the impact is just so satisfying. Getting the controls down is easy, but timing 
 them is a bit trickier. Your opponents attack as vigorously as you do, so it's key that you focus 
 on good fight flow. Interrupting your opponent's assault by blocking and then beating out a smooth 
 cadence of combos on his head and torso is the quickest way to secure your victory.  

  This victory can come by straight-up pummeling, or you can use the adrenaline you've gained by 
 landing successful blows to unleash a takedown. A takedown is a fluid, context-sensitive flurry 
 of blows in which you finish bad guys off in signature Bourne style with efficient, improvisational 
 brutality. It's when you finish your foe off by kicking him down a staircase. It's when you bounce 
 his head off a desk, then punch his head right back down into the desk as he tries to get up. It's 
 when you break a bookshelf, a vending machine, or a glass table with his broken, unconscious body. 
 In short, it's a way to exponentially increase the amount of awesome stuff you can do in combat 
 without increasing the complexity of the controls.  

           Jason Bourne bolsters the local economy by creating sign repair and body removal jobs. 

  Takedowns are such an excellent part of combat that as you come up on enemies and engage in battle, 
 you'll find yourself looking around for objects you could possibly use in environmental takedowns. 
 Thankfully these objects are plentiful and range from a concrete pillar in a parking garage to 
 a fully stacked bookshelf in a library. This is a testament to the thoroughness of the takedown 
 implementation, as well as the richness of the environments. The levels look sharp and are very 
 well populated with everyday objects, but they're not without their flaws. Any noncombatant you 
 encounter is surrounded by an impenetrable invisible shield, and sometimes you'll maneuver an opponent 
 toward a specific object for a takedown only to execute one of the many generic, open-space takedowns. 
 To be fair, these are still pretty satisfying, but you'll notice the repetition as you progress 
 further into the game. You can also charge your adrenaline meter up to the point where you can 
 take down two or three opponents in one fluid sequence. Performing multiple takedowns in a row 
 requires timed button presses, and though these animations also begin to repeat, multiple takedowns 
 happen rarely enough that you'll probably just be psyched to have leveled so many foes so quickly. 
     

  Timed button presses will occasionally pop up with little to no warning, challenging you to evade 
 a sniper's shot or an assassin's bomb. Getting ambushed by these events keeps the tension running 
 high, and they are infrequent enough that they don't feel bothersome. These timed presses also 
 factor heavily into one of the best parts of the game, the boss fights. Bosses are particularly 
 talented brawlers that not only can survive multiple takedowns, but will try to perform takedowns 
 on you. Boss takedowns can be thwarted with a quick tap of the appropriate button, but if you miss, 
 be prepared to take some substantial damage. Bosses are more resilient than Bourne, and Bourne, 
 who regenerates health when not directly engaged in combat, can regain health only by performing 
 takedowns.  

           Pre-amnesiac Bourne enjoys a good train station shooting spree.      

  The bosses' 
 toughness actually works in your favor because it gives you a chance to try out the more-plentiful-than-usual 
 takedown possibilities in the boss arena. Each boss fight also features a unique weapon that can 
 be used in a takedown. These are particularly nasty maneuvers inspired by the movies, and they 
 involve such weapons as a pen, a shovel, and a book. Don't fret if you miss out, though, because 
 you can unlock these encounters and then play them right from the menu screen. Unfortunately, to 
 do so you'll need to collect the passports that are strewn about each level. It's not that they're 
 hard to find, but rather that taking your time and searching thoroughly is so un-Bourne that doing 
 so slows down the otherwise fast pacing of the game.  

  There's also a fair amount of gun combat, though it's not nearly as exciting as the hand-to-hand 
 action. You can carry a sidearm (one of numerous pistol variants) and a larger weapon (shotgun 
 or assault rifle) , ducking in and out of cover as you mow your enemies down. Mostly you'll be free 
 aiming, but engaging the Bourne Instinct will highlight your foes and will snap the target reticle 
 to the nearest one. Gun takedowns are far less impressive than their manual counterparts and simply 
 require a timed button press to pull off successfully. The highlight of gunplay is the sound effects, 
 which give each gun a unique timbre and reward headshots with a sickly satisfying thud. While shooting 
 definitely plays second fiddle to fighting, it holds up its part well and doesn't get tiresome 
 until you replay missions trying to collect the passports you need to unlock the eminently replayable 
 boss fights. There's also a car chase through Paris that, while fairly bland, does add a nice splash 
 of variety to the game.  

           This thug is fixin' to chow down on a big ol' elbow pie.      

 The production values 
 of The Bourne Conspiracy are generally good, with a few notable hiccups. Sound effects are excellent, 
 and you'll be pleasantly surprised by how many noises one man hitting another can yield. The music 
 is also a standout, especially in boss fights, and it helps ramp up the tense excitement of your 
 adventure with the taut urgency of the movie soundtrack. The character models are well detailed 
 and respond to punishment vividly. The only production stumbles you'll see are the occasional camera 
 glitches. For the most part, the camera does a great job of approximating the tightly framed, in-your-face 
 style of the movies, but if it's forced into confined spaces it will sometimes cause Bourne and 
 his enemy to disappear while it tries to reposition itself. There are other awkward hang-ups, like 
 Bourne's inability to step around an obstacle while sprinting, but none of these issues are a great 
 hindrance to your enjoyment of the game.  

  Translating the lightning-quick close-quarters combat of the Bourne films into viscerally satisfying 
 gameplay is no mean feat, but High Moon Studios has done it and done it well. The adventure is 
 a bit short, and the solid gunplay becomes tedious the second time around. Still, the combat system 
 alone makes this game worth playing, and the dramatic moments it creates are the real treat. There's 
 nothing quite like the end of a boss fight when you and your enemy are both bruised and bloody 
 and on the brink of death with the music at a pounding crescendo, and you hammer him with a vicious 
 roundhouse to the face before executing your final, brutal takedown. In exhilarating moments like 
 this you feel like a real badass, and that's what being Jason Bourne is all about.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (104 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  The action genre in the video game world is crowded. While most of these games get the basics right 
 such as controls, gameplay, graphics, sound, etc, they fail to stand out due to lack of creativity. 
 They focus more on making a solid game, rather than a game that is different from the rest. In 
 short, they have no creative ambition. Then, of course, we have the action games that don't even 
 get the basics right. Generally, it would be safe to say that these games are going up river without 
 a paddle. 
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy is a game that gets a lot of the basics wrong. The control schemes feel undercooked, 
 level design is smotheringly linear, camera angles feel uncomfortable, and if gamers did not see 
 the Bourne Identity than the story is essentially non-existent. 
  
  Lets start with the controls. There is a lot of shooting in the game. Cover is something that is 
 needed, and it is annoying that the player cant run into cover. Player must approach cover and 
 wait for the action icon to pop up to get into it. Furthermore, you cant jump from cover to cover 
 ala Gears of War and Wanted. This seems like something that should be in this game. If one wants 
 to move to another piece of cover than the player must get off of the over manually and run to 
 the next cover and manually get into it again, all the while enemies are just pouring into the 
 player. The cover system is just one of the basics that this game gets totally wrong. Games are 
 doing it well nearly all of the time, but somehow this game gets it wrong. Overall, the cover system 
 feels inferior to other games, which is a huge part in shooters today. 
  
  Now to the hand to hand fighting controls. As you have all heard, this is the game's strong point. 
 I would argue with that as the controls don't feel right here either. If one wants to perform a 
 special combo, which the player has to do often or face a brutal beating, one has to press the 
 X and Y buttons simultaneously. If you are reading this, get your 360 controller and hold it in 
 your hand like you normally would. What do you have to do to press these two buttons? Exactly, 
 it looks and feels stupid. Again, it would be one thing if this was not an essential part to the 
 combat and only done on occasion, but it is an aspect of the game that must be done routinely. 
 By routinely I mean this is what you will be doing for the vast majority of each hand to hand fight, 
 and hand to hand fights are a huge part to this game. 
  
  Now to the camera angles. These can become uncomfortable during fist fights, pending on where you 
 move to in the environment, the camera will have to suddenly readjust and the player has to become 
 reoriented which is a nuisance. Sometimes, they don't readjust and the player is fighting the opponent 
 while his vision could be obscured. When the player performs those cool take downs, he is also 
 forced to get reoriented to the return of the camera after the takedown. 
  
  The most significant basic the game misses is the camera angle the game decides to take when Jason 
 is armed, which is the majority of the game. It gets so close up on Jason so that the player cannot 
 comfortably see the environment and much of it is obscured. Due to this, the player can be getting 
 shot and may never get the chance to figure out from where. It forces the player to play against 
 the flaw of the game, not the enemies the game manufactures. Sort of like players in Dead Rising 
 fighting the pitiful controls and dumb friendly AI, while Capcom says they made them like that 
 on purpose to challenge the player. LOL, right. The player should not be fighting game flaws, there 
 is no excuse for that. This is the most hampering missed basic, as the player is forced to deal 
 with it the entire game. Also, it hampers viewing of the game environments, which look good. 
 
  
  And finally, as mentioned before, the level designs are linear and unless players have seen the 
 movie the story is essentially non-existent. In fact, the game counts on the fact that players 
 have seen the movie for the story of the game. If one were to hear all of this about a game, it 
 would be hard to imagine that it would be a game worth looking into. Somehow, though, it is. 
 
  
  The ambitious ideas and cinematic qualities the game brings forth are so well done that I was able 
 to look past its lack of well constructed basics. The quick time events are well done, and the 
 game makes use of them often. In fist fights, gun fights, the car sequence, and even for other 
 things. The depiction of the take downs are brutal, the camera adjust so that we can see each smackdown. 
 Bourne slams enemy heads into walls, windows, picture frames, scanners, railings, and anything 
 else he finds. He also uses pens, chairs, books, shovels, and other things. This makes the fighting 
 fun despite ugly camera angles and controls. It could be said that it looks better than it plays. 
 Usually this is an insult, but not in this case, not when it is so awesome!
  
  The games ambition also payed off, in that it wanted to give the player a chance to be a part of 
 some of the memorable moments from the Bourne Identity. The game does it with panache, and as a 
 result, these moments in the game are memorable as well. The face off with the professor is here. 
 The player must sprint and evade his sniper rifle fire. The cool scene where Bourne escapes from 
 the embassy is also here, and it gives off the same vibe it had in the movie. Also, yes, you do 
 fall down through the middle of a stair well and use a body to save your fall.
  
  The game also makes moments of its own. At one point, a helicopter with machine guns on it is hunting 
 Jason down. The player must sprint to avoid the machine gun fire and do other things to avoid being 
 made into swiss cheese. Just like any really cool action movie. Bourne's ability to sprint in this 
 game is one of the things that make some of the action sequences so breathtaking. Running while 
 hails of gun fire surround you is just plain satisfying. They are some of the best moments in the 
 game. 
  
  Some basics are done exceptionally well, to the point where they help to null the basics done wrong. 
 On the whole, the sound is great. The game has music from the movies, and the music from the movies 
 were awesome!! The music in this game is some of the best one will find in video games. What helps 
 the ugly gun controls and camera is the fact that the guns sound great. Further helping the ugly 
 gun controls and camera is that game also looks good with destructible environments and nice physics. 
 The enemies vary greatly in there appearance. 
  
  Despite being linear, the levels are beautiful and interesting in their setting. From city roof 
 tops, to snow covered rural areas, the game is easy on the eyes. The game has a unique, cool style 
 that is great too look at. 
  
  This game is an example of the power of creative ambition. It easily overcomes basic shortcomings, 
 basics which most gamers view as an essential part to video games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:09 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few games with which I can say, I liked it more than I thought I would. Movie 
 adaptations have a way of being less than fluid in the control department, but this time they got 
 it right. You can fight, crouch, run and scope out the landscape with ease. The techniques look 
 like real jiu jitsu. Even the music and the pacing are done to resemble a real film. I've seen 
 all the Bourne films, and read the books, and this title doesn't divert too far from the themes 
 and settings of the established series. (A note for fans of Shenmue -- you will be reminded of that 
 game by the fight scenes here.) The level bosses are truly difficult to defeat. You will have to 
 try your full array of combos, blocks and dodges in order to end each round. Those who don't know 
 the background will still find this to be a game that quickly involves the player in survival and 
 problem solving. Think on your feet, and don't slow down for a second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfyHurricance
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:13 pm PT
Review:  disappointed. The campaign mode is less than 5 hours and only covers Bourne Identity and one boss 
 fight of Bourne Supremacy. There is no replay value. The fight combos are repetitive and you quickly 
 learn to use a combo of block and your heavy punch attack. The kicks are useless. The weapons are 
 limited numbering around 10 after you've unlocked content. The sound is abysmal. During your takedowns 
 it often misses important kick or punch sounds that really mess with the enjoyment of a good takedown. 
 The game is significantly affected by not having Matt Damon's voice and quality voice acting. The 
 cut scenes are often painful to listen to but luckily you can skip them using "A". In all fairness 
 its hard to turn Bourne into a video game so kudos points for trying. $14 at Target for 5 hours 
 of entertainment isn't a bad return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamix22
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:57 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is really a playable game. Sure, it's nothing compared to most high-profile 
 action games, but it's worth a rental. You'll be playing as Jason Bourne - a character from one 
 of the best action movie trilogies of recent years. If you know Bourne, you'll know that there 
 won't be much shooting in this game. There isn't much, but there is some - and it's very very dissapointing. 
 Although the shooting parts aren't much, the most fun you'll have with this game will be when using 
 hand-to-hand combat. Sure, there are just three combos or so, but the takedowns are awesome! The 
 controls aren't the best, but you'll get used to them in a while. Overall, The Bourne Conspiracy 
 isn't good, isn't bad - just playable, if you have nothing to do, and need a game to play for a 
 few hours.
  
  Pros:
  
  Some nice visual design
  Takedowns
  Hand-to-hand combat
  
  Cons:
  
  Short game, only 6 or so hours long
  The shooting sequences are frustrating 
 and dissapointing
  The controls could have been better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:57 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a relatively faithful rendering of its cinematic source in video game 
 form through a combination of third-person shooter and beat-'em-up gameplay mechanics. The story 
 traces the narrative of The Bourne Identity, and it's quite fun to relive some of the film's most 
 thrilling moments. The feel of the movie itself is captured quite well with the aid of well-done, 
 albeit short cinematics and an excellent, heart-pumping score.
  
  The game itself is pretty standard third-person shooter fare, and you'll definitely feel a sense 
 of deja-vu while running and gunning through the levels. However, the beat-'em-up aspect of the 
 game is much more unique, with a seemingly infinite number of context-sensitive moves and animations 
 that deliver lightning fast, brutal kung fu as only Jason Bourne can execute. In all, you really 
 do get a sense of what it might feel like to possess the "sixth sense" skills that Bourne displayed 
 in the film.
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy does suffer from some issues, though. The levels are mind-numbingly linear, 
 and the cover system, while adequate for the most part, is sometimes glitchy. Also, there are certain 
 sections of the game when you can't kill certain attackers, which seems arbitrary and makes little 
 sense in the context of the game. Running up to opponents and disarming them to engage in hand-to-hand 
 fisticuffs can be glitchy too. But most of all, Conspiracy's greatest weakness is that its third-person 
 shooter aspect feels quite derivative, and the action can start to feel repetitive towards the 
 end. But for a rental, it's a worthwhile and fun romp while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  A game based on the Bourne series of movies was always inevitable. The brutal, energetic fight 
 sequences, along with the sporadic gunplay would always segue quite well into a game. And so along 
 trots The Bourne Conspiracy from developer High Moon Studios, who's only previous credit before 
 this one is the excellent Darkwatch for PS2.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about Bourne is that he doesn't look like Matt Damon. In a rather 
 perplexing move, Damon called himself out after seeing the violent content of the game, which seems 
 oxymoronic to me, but anyways - the game doesn't really suffer for the lack of Damon's likeness, 
 although it could have indeed been made better by his participation.
  
  The game starts with the famous Wombosi killing that drove the plot of the first movie - with you 
 stepping straight into Bourne's shoes and into a fist fight. And this is where the game shines 
 - the simple yet deep hand-to-hand system allows for a huge number of combinations, with X linked 
 to light attack, Y to heavy attack, and a held press of either to a powerful kick attack. That 
 gives you 8 possible 3-hit combos, and 4 2-hits, but that's not what makes the combat special. 
 No, that crown goes to the takedown system - linked to the B button, it's context sensitive and 
 hugely entertaining. Executing hits on a target builds up an adrenaline meter, and once you've 
 got a certain amount of the stuff, you can hit B and you execute one of Bourne's patented quick 
 takedowns - anything from cracking the guy's skull off of a radiator, to slamming him into a circuit 
 breaker, these are hugely violent and brilliantly satisfying to pull off.
  
  Further more, when you're playing boss fights, there are usually special items littered around 
 your battlefield - think phonebook, fire extinguisher and pen, then you're more or less there - 
 and these brilliantly evoke some of the more elaborate takedowns from the movies. It's a fantastic 
 system, implemented in a challenging and engaging way. It's just such a shame that the game falls 
 down on other counts.
  
  The first and most frustrating is the shooting gameplay. Whilst High Moon have done an admirable 
 job of being able to switch seamlessly between hand-to-hand and shooting, there's simply not been 
 enough effort put into the actual shooting mechanics for it to be satisfying. There is a good idea 
 in the 'ranged takedown' mechanic, but when you're just dodging from cover to cover, the controls 
 simply feel to hands-off, and too inaccurate for you to really get into it. A system more akin 
 to Gears of War would've been nice, but what's here is simply not wieldy enough for a lot of the 
 things you're required to do. This, in particular, raises its ugly head when you're asked to shoot 
 fuel tanks on an ATV, and the inaccuracy of it will have you pulling your hair out in frustration 
 after the 17th attempt at it.
  
  Second, it's far, far, far too short. You'll be lucky if you get 7 hours out of the first play 
 through, and considering that a lot of games these days incorporate 15 hours with multiplayer, 
 this came as something of a shock. The story is fine - it elaborates and expands upon some of the 
 stuff only hinted at in the movies - but it just feels half-arsed. They could well have included 
 Supremacy and Ultimatum, but it's clear that they were instructed to hold that part back for a 
 sequel. It does, however, beg the question of why they're charging full price for it.
  
  Achievements offer some factor of replayability, but to be quite honest, some of them are obnoxiously 
 difficult to obtain (intriguingly, one of the trickier ones is scoring under 10% accuracy...) , 
 and others are so worthless as 'achievements' that you wonder why they don't just give you 1000G 
 for simply putting the disc in.
  
  In short, Bourne is, for once, a decent movie tie-in game that is hampered by slightly clunky shooting 
 mechanics and a cripplingly short campaign length. Certainly worth a rental, but little else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun and exciting. This is the first game in my opinon where fighting is better than 
 shooting. The fighting is awsome from using your fist to slaming the a guy into a wall its just 
 funny to watch. The shooting i'm not to impressed with, however i do like the cover system. There 
 is one part in the game where you drive a car and that was alright but it was more confusing than 
 enjoyable. There really wasnt much of a story it was really all fighting. The game was pretty basic 
 as far as difficulty goes but none of the levels were really fusterating or hard to beat. Its really 
 how every game goes, easy at the begining and gets harder as it comes to an end. I was a little 
 disapointed with the ending because there wasnt much of one but nonetheless it was a fun game. 
 The controls are easy to get use to and there are like two buttons you dont even have to use. Overall 
 the game was fun while some parts were boring and other parts were confusing. It was a game I did 
 enjoy and didnt feel was a waste of time or money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Three words best describe this title: shortest game ever. I was done with it in four hours and 
 once complete, there isn't a whole lot left to do. To the game's credit, the action is awesome 
 and intense, but this doesn't even begin to make up for the short length.
  
  The action is a solid mix between a brawler and a shooter. The fighting sequences are fun, but 
 can get repetitive. There is a light and heavy attack and they can be combined into several different 
 three-hit combos. The block button can be used to defend against every incoming melee attack, so 
 it is possible to win nearly every fight on the first try with enough patience. Boss fights are 
 a bit more difficult, but only because they block your attack more than other enemies do. Every 
 time you connect an attack, an adrenaline meter on the bottom of the screen fills up. As this fills, 
 you can perform up to three takedowns on enemies. Against a normal enemy, these are instant kills. 
 Against bosses, they do significantly more damage than a normal attack. These takedowns can be 
 performed near most objects in the environment to use them against your enemy, like smashing their 
 head into a jukebox or throwing them through a coffee table. While the combos do get old after 
 a while, it is always fun to find different items around the level to use against your foe. The 
 shooting in the game isn't much different than in other games, but the the ability to use your 
 Bourne Instinct spices it up a bit. Pressing this button sends the world into black and white but 
 anything of interest is left in color, including enemies, weapons, explosive objects that can be 
 shot, or hidden items. It also highlights how to get to your objective on the mini-map in case 
 you are lost. You have unlimited use of the Bourne Instinct and it can be used constantly. The 
 only issue I had with it was that it would automatically zoom to the nearest target upon use. Sometimes 
 it would spin me around to look at a propane tank behind me when I really wanted to see what was 
 hiding in front of me. If your adrenaline meter has enough saved up, you can also perform shooting 
 takedowns when enemies are present. All the takedowns, shooting or melee, are fairly cinematic 
 and look very good. When performing one on more than one enemy at a time, there is a timed button 
 press segment that keeps the intensity of the moment up. One other problem I had with the controls; 
 the game wouldn't let me take cover behind an object or open a door until the animation for moving 
 was completed and this left me open to attack a few times. Other than this, the controls work very 
 well. To mix things up a little more is the car chase scene. It's a fun segment and the controls 
 are decent, but it is immediately obvious that this isn't a racing game.
  
  The boss battles stand out as one of the games best parts. The scenes from the movie are recreated 
 and extended perfectly. The hand to hand fight in Bourne's apartment is awesome, all the way down 
 to actually having the chance to stab your enemy in the hand with a pen. The fight against the 
 sniper out at the country home is the best scene in the game. Just like the movie, all you have 
 to work with is a shotgun and you must blow up different objects to provide cover for yourself 
 while you make your way to the enemy. There is even a timed button press segment where you look 
 at yourself through the sniper's scope and must evade his shots. The high level of quality and 
 fun behind all the boss battles makes the final one that much more disappointing. Not only was 
 the fight itself lame, but it didn't even fit in with the story. After the final action scene in 
 the movie, another assassin kills the man that set Bourne up. In the game, Bourne goes after the 
 killer for no apparent reason. At first he says it is to find out who sent him, but then you kill 
 the assassin without talking to him and the game ends. The fight itself is actually easier than 
 a shoot-out against a normal enemy. You shoot him once and he runs further away. Chase after him 
 four times or so, shoot him once each time and you win.
  
  The game takes place during the first movie, The Bourne Identity, but throws in a few flashbacks 
 of past missions, including the entire assassination attempt against Wombosi that leads to his 
 amnesia. None of the actors from the movie are in the game but the replacements are worthy and 
 don't hurt the flow of the story. It seems strange that the game only covers the first movie's 
 time frame since the three books and movies have been out for so long now. With the extreme short 
 length of the game, it wouldn't have been unreasonable for us to expect the entire trilogy in one 
 game. This would have made the final time clock in around ten hours, which is what I feel the minimum 
 should be for an action game to be worth my money. While some scenes are shortened or skipped over, 
 enough of the story is intact for the plot to flow well and you don't really miss much.
  
  The developer's attempt at creating some replay value falls short. There are three difficulty levels, 
 but I played the first two and didn't notice much of a difference. There are passports hidden through 
 each level, but the side rooms and secret niches where they are located are easily spotted on your 
 mini-map, and it won't really take more than one or two playthroughs to find them all if you are 
 really looking. The awards and achievements don't help much either. Every one of them can be earned 
 during the course of two playthroughs. Anyway you look at it, there is nothing that you can do 
 with this game that can't be finished in half a rental period.
  
  The in game graphics are very impressive. Everything looks great and most of the environment is 
 destructible, both when being shot at or having an enemy thrown into it. The rain effects in some 
 of the missions are the best I have seen in a game. The enemies look good, but there is a very 
 small number of character models. In the first level alone, you will fight the same guy nearly 
 a dozen times. While the in game graphics look very good, the cutscenes look terrible. The CGI 
 itself is good, but the scenes are intentionally made grainy for some unknown reason and just look 
 bad.
  
  I did very much enjoy the game. The action is honestly some of the best I have seen in a third 
 person shooter in a long time and the game itself is incredibly polished and glitch free. My only 
 major issue is the incredibly short length. You could buy the whole Bourne movie trilogy for half 
 the price and get twice the time out of them. Four hours of gameplay is just not acceptable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esman39
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are awesome. Very detailed. Sound is great too. I really enjoyed the way this game was 
 presented. Lots of style.
  However if you haven't viewed the flim (s) you'll probably be wondering what the heck is going on. 
 The game's story seemed kinda choppy to me but I had my movie memories to fill in the gaps.
  The fighting and take-downs are very satisfying. I really don't see why Gamespot disliked the gun 
 sections. I found them just as satisfying as the hand-to-hand combat.
  Hand-to-hand combat is a real treat but a bit over-simplistic. I kept wanting more options when 
 it came to attacking opponents.
  And finally, the game was far, far too short. I was disappointed. I thought that the game would 
 cover all three movies as opposed to just the first. You can easily beat this game in one sitting 
 with little-to-no difficulties. That is just sad for $35-60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayMezzy
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I decided to add this game to my collection shortly after playing the demo. I have seen all three 
 Bourne films and I am really impressed with this game. It seems really authentic to the films. 
 The atmosphere is all captured here and makes you feel like your playing the movie! It's a great 
 feeling.
  
  The Gameplay
  ---------------------
  The gameplay of this game is great but it isn't perfect by all means. The game has three elements 
 to it; fighting hand to hand, shooting and driving. All three aspects have their weaknesses and 
 strengths. 
  
  The shooting portion of the game is nice but I feel this is where the opportunity for Sierra is 
 missed. The aiming system is a tad bit hard to line up in desperate situations (like surrounded 
 by hordes of enemies with deadly aim) . And the thing about the shooting levels that just get under 
 my skin the most is the cover system. It simply sux, especially after playing shooters like Gears 
 of War, and Tom Clancy's games. If the cover system was as good as it is in those games, this game 
 would've gotten a 8.5 at least. It's frustrating when you are running from enemy fire and you get 
 to a low barrier pressing A and Bourne just stands there and continues to get shot at. It seems 
 as though there is a delay between pressing A to get to cover and the actual animation taking over. 
 It kills me!! Literally.
  
  The driving portion just needs work period. It's very basic and seems as though no physics at all 
 were used in driving, dodging cars and whatever else. lol Its funny to watch but it kinda takes 
 away from the Bourne movie feel because it feels so fake. The driving part I could do without... nice 
 try though.
  
  The hand to hand combat is where the movie feeling really comes into play. You know when you saw 
 the film and when you saw Bourne fighting with books and newspapers and beating the dude up your 
 reaction was like "OOOO That Was TIGHT!!" Well same reaction here. The fighting combos look really 
 good and the enemies responses are on point when getting hit by a blow to the gut and etc. The 
 boss fights can get ridiculously long and difficult sometimes and the fighting combos can get a 
 lil repetitive but it looks so good you don't mind so much. 
  
  Sound and Presentation
  -----------------------------------
  
  Feels good when you hear the music as you Drive, Shoot, 
 and Fight the different enemies and bosses in the game. The soundtrack is authentic and keeps you 
 engaged in the game and makes it really feel like your actually Jason Bourne. When the start screen 
 comes on and you here the music, you know that it's evident the creators wanted to make this game 
 as good as it looks. 
  
  The graphics are on point... granted the characters don't look like their film counterparts, which 
 is disappointing, but it's all good. The sound is their to relieve the pain lol. It looks and sound 
 great, everything from Bourne's signature groan when throwing and punch or round house kicking 
 someone to shooting a barrel as it explodes in your enemies face. Its Awesome!!
  
  
  Overall
  ----------
  
  I believe this game is a good pick up for anyone looking for a good 
 Action/Movie based game. I got mine for around 30 bucks so I felt this was worth it but not so 
 much for a full $60 when it's not perfect. Well not so much perfect but flawed enough to prevent 
 it from being an 9.0 rated game. Hope this review helps ya'll. PeAce!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 8:45 am PT
Review:  Games based on movies usually don't fare well, mostly because of their limited development time. 
 They always have to be released on a certain day, but matter what and this usually results in buggy, 
 unfinished games, or just games that doesn't follow the source material as well and completely 
 fail to live up to the movie. Now it's time for the Bourne series to get a game, but is this game 
 a success, or is it a failed million dollar experiment?
  
  Story
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game tells the story of Jason Bourne, a CIA agent, who failed to assinate his target and is 
 now on the run from CIA and pretty much every authority in the world, all while getting help from 
 a woman called Marie. The story is partly based on the first Bourne movie "The Bourne Identity" 
 while following some of his past missions not covered in the movies. If you haven't seen the movie 
 yet, then you probably should, otherwise you probably won't be able to understand much, the game 
 skips a few sequences from the film and it's a bit convoluted for those who never seen it, so watching 
 the movie is highly recommended. For people who have seen the movie, the game will expand the universe.
 
  
  7.0
  
  Gameplay
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 Bourne Conspiracy is another game that mixes shooting, with driving and fighting. The shooting 
 parts are the highlights, you move around, taking cover, shooting enemies. You can use the Bourne 
 Instinct to highlight objects you can use, it can also help you aim. After shooting a certain number 
 of enemies, your adrenaline meter fills you and you can do a shoot takedown, which kills just about 
 the enemy before you, or the few enemies that are in the room with you, it makes the game a bit 
 easy and considering you have plenty of time to react to it's quick time event, you'll quickly 
 just start hurting enemies, just to get enough adrenaline to take him out. That being said though, 
 it is fun and the cover system works well. Then there's the hand-to-hand sequence, basically your 
 up against one or more enemies, it's the simple stuff you got your light attacks that's quick and 
 doesn't deal a lot of damage and then you got the strong attacks, which is slow to use but deals 
 a good amount of damage. The hand-to-hand sections tends to get repetitive, you always hit a guy, 
 then block, wait for him to hit you, you then hit him and the process repeats until you get enough 
 adrenaline to perform a takedown. When fighting against bosses, there are also a few quick time 
 events which will prevent from getting hit, but once again these are too easy. The driving sections 
 are surprisingly decent, though the car physics could be a bit better, their easy and fun to play. 
 The quick time events in the game are good, except for the in-game ones which are a bit too easy.
 
  
  The game takes around 6-10 hours to complete, after that there's not much replay value unless you 
 have the Xbox 360 version. Each version contain extras but they aren't really exciting or that 
 special.
  
  7.0
  
  Graphics
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 graphics are good, the environments are good looking and the character models animate really well, 
 but they could look better. The take downs are the visual highlight, each looking very realistic 
 and beautiful to see. The cut-scenes are made to imitate the shaky camera that was use in the movies, 
 it works well, but the cut-scenes are mostly pre-rendered and they doesn't look as good as the 
 in-game graphics either. The game doesn't use any likeness of Matt Damon or any of the other actors 
 either, it's a bit disappointing, but it at least their somewhat re-created well. The frame-rate 
 might go down a few times but otherwise, this is a good looking game.
  
  8.5
  
  Sound
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The voice acting is good, though none of the actors are voicing. The guy who voice Jason Bourne 
 however is a good stand in, he doesn't try to imitate Matt Damon, but he does a good job. The music 
 is provided by Paul Oakenfold and he does a good job.
  
  8.5
  
  Overall
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 The Bourne Conspiracy is a surprisingly good game, some elements in the game could be better but 
 otherwise, this is a surprisingly good game, it's short length however makes it hard to recommended 
 a purchase though, rent it, unless your addicted to achievements.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Robert Ludlum: The bourne Conspiracy is a solid action game that not only has gun shooting gameplay, 
 there is also one on one fighting combat that will really excite you. There are hardly any games 
 where you will go one on one with a enemy using your figting skills. You will have plenty of moves 
 and takedowns to eliminate the enemies. You can also evade their attacks. The takedown action is 
 very important as it reduces an enemies life but without harming you in any way. You will also 
 regain some life after a takedown. You will need these, especially when your life bar is low. This 
 is usually done in battles with the bosses. They are harder to defeat and you will have to rely 
 on the takedowns frequently. Jason Bourne can also run and jump past objects high and low. He is 
 acrobatic and will daringly jump off ledges and roofs. You will have to escape from enemies in 
 some parts of the game so you will have to use the sprint button. And along the way, you will experience 
 some bugs as you will get stuck at objects and see weapons hanging in the air.
  
  Enemies AI are smart in the game. They will make use of the cover and will often flank you down. 
 They often shout out commands to one another. They will charge at you and the camera will focus 
 between you and one of them as you go one on one with them. However, there is one problem when 
 enemies surround you when you are one on one with a guy. One or two of them have a weapon and they 
 will shoot at you. Until you kill the guy that is attacking you, you cant wipe out the gunners. 
 And their gun shots reduces a lot of your life. So you will have to quickly wipe out the attacker 
 to get to the gunner. The bosses really look like bosses from a prisoner to a muscle-bound african 
 goon. Tougher and bigger bosses have longer life. This is realistic. Character models are great. 
 Their lip movements follow their speech and their walking and actions are realistic. Even the smooching 
 scene in one part of the game where bourne kisses his girl is realistic.
  
  The story is solid in the game. It follows from all the bourne movies and is put together in one 
 game. It is delivered well. There are plenty of cutscenes where Bourne will look to find out his 
 true identity. And missions you play will be from the past and present. And mission desigh is excellent 
 in the game. There is one mission where you will try to catch and eliminate a terrorist hiding 
 in an airport that has just escaped from prison. Another mission is where a sniper boss is positioned 
 in a house not far away from where bourne was in his girl's house. In that mission, the sniuper 
 will be looking to shoot you. You will have to make your way through to the attic, grap a shotgun, 
 and go to the house and eliminate the sniper. Missons are long and aplenty in the game.
  
  Gun combat is disastrous in this game. Its not like third and first person shooters such as Gears 
 of war and Call of duty games. This is a entirely new shooting experience that is really bad. Its 
 hard to aim at enemies and shooting at enemies is also disastrous. you will aim for headshots but 
 the enemy wont die. Its like bullets spraying in different directions. Weapons' sound and feel 
 dont feel right.
  
  Nevertheless, this is a combat style game that is sure going to please many action game fans. So 
 go get this game and enjoy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay now for the big review well it's a really great game. And I'll start with the game play and 
 it's great awesome especially when it comes to hand to hand fighting. The take downs look cool 
 there are certain objects you can use against your opponent. For instance there's this one boss 
 battle where when you do the take down you block his kick in flip him into a glass table it shatters 
 and looks great. Now the shooting is good, it's great that you can use the Bourne instinct and 
 it automatically moves to your target, but sometimes it moves it to the edge of the target and 
 then your target moves. Now the driving parts (while I've only played one so far) are really good 
 no complains. This game is just a good play even without multiplayer but a multiplayer would have 
 made it great. But the story is well put together even if I haven't finished it yet. I would definitely 
 recommend it to anyone who likes violence and cool fighting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trainhoboVEGAS
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  
  Since I was a fan of Jason Bourne when it came out. Most of the fighting and take downs is based 
 upon in some parts of the movie.
  Most of the cut scene from the movie are made differently compared to the movie, well not much 
 importance into that.
  
  Most of the character boss fights never happened in the movie where the professor get killed in 
 hand to hand combat in the game, but in the movie he got killed in a snap by Jason Bourne (Matt 
 Damon) . Except for the Agent named Castel, his fights looks a little bit of the same except for 
 the boss fight end made a cut scene a little bit different comparing one scene to another.
  
  Most of the flash back missions which pretty much tell how Jason almost achieved his mission 
 into assassinating of the politicians named Wombosi.
  
  Well my opinion of this game is that the story is a little bit dull and most of everything is unspeakable.
 
  
  The fighting is pretty good to begin with including the take you have to make killing multiple 
 opponents.
  
  The shooting and driving quirks a little which is highly frustrating when hiding behind cover not 
 getting shot when your cover is already being chipped away by gunfire. Okey most parts of the game 
 are good, but way too dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polish_Assassin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Ah Bourne Conspiracy, I pretty good game, i was actually nervous about buying this even though 
 I've seen the movies and they are extremely good!, and the fact is that this is a really good game. 
 Compare this game to other games and you will find something you don't always find, a game that 
 relates to the movie. Not only that but the story line between the movie and game are seriously 
 close!
  The graphics will amaze you in all ways, especially the sounds you will hear. They put every detail 
 they could in the hand-to-hand combat like the environment and the fact that you can use it to 
 your advantage, the bone crushing action, Listen to the fight like for instance if you do the whole 
 "Smack" to the enemy's face you can actually here his bone crack if it was a hard enough hit! You 
 have these great hand-to-hand combat moves and special moves that include everything and anything 
 that is around you. There is also a special on the gun, but it is barely as satisfying as the hand-to-hand 
 combat, just delivering a strong kick to the guys face is like a stress ball!, but the boss battles! 
 Oh Everyone, and i mean EVERYONE will LOVE the boss battles in Bourne Conspiracy. Don't worry if 
 this game doesn't appeal to you im sure the is a return policy but i haven't used mine because 
 i am seriously satisfied with it and have loads of fun getting all the achievements =D. Two thumbs 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  First off I rented this game (which was smart) because I finished it in like 4 hours on normal 
 difficulty (agent) ... The game itself captures the pace of the movie and is really fast... The 
 combat is solid with different blocks and takedowns and the gunplay is good with the weapons sounding 
 good.... The game only has 11 levels and the boss fights are about the same... This game has some 
 strategy and is somewhat of a button masher... The game is really true to the movies and is identical 
 to the bourne identity movie... I just wish they would have made more levels and included the bourne 
 supremecy and the bourne ultimatum.... all well... this game was fun while it last and is fast... 
 The voice acting is good and the graphics have a cool feel to them and it has good sound and all 
 that.... I just wish it was not as short and I wish it had a multiplayer component or co-op or 
 something.... The extra features are lame so when you are done with the game return it or loan 
 it to a friend.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Bourne, Jason Bourne. Secret agent, government trained, amnesia riddled killing machine, employed 
 by some unknown branch of operations calls upon your special skills until the day you fail to complete 
 a usual objective. Which in turns leads them to wanting you dead.
  Based off the popular spy novel written by Robert Ludlum, that eventually made its way to the big 
 screen in 3 films starring Matt Damon, the videogame has every necessary ingredient to succeed 
 on its own entertainment merits. With only a few minor flaws in combat and repetitive objectives, 
 this movie/novel based game really stands apart from the pack showing a thing or two about how 
 to make a genuinely fun game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Put in the role of Jason Bourne, you have years of weapons and hand to hand combat training instantly 
 at your fingertips. This may sound a bit overwhelming at first, but truth be told the game designers 
 really found a lot of smooth ways to help you adapt to having various pain giving skills.
  Since you do plenty of head bashing in this game, close-quarter combat is addressed right away 
 as you lay some hurt on easy targets like security guards and hostel bystanders. Working with a 
 simple button layout; heavy and quick attacks link together for combos, block acts as a automatic 
 dodge/parry maneuver, and then the most enjoyable is takedowns. As you progress thru the game there 
 is plenty one on one bouts against mini-bosses and some lone thugs here and there. But the real 
 meat of combat is found in performing combos and dispatching large groups of baddies.
  Like the movies, Bourne is exceptionally talented in breaking down opponents and knocking them 
 clean out. With the take downs button, you can use adrenaline built up from combos and special 
 actions and release it as a quick way to bash a dude into the breakable surroundings or simply 
 pummel them with a press of the button. When surrounded, take downs become a mini-game where you 
 hit corresponding buttons so that all targets are left lifeless.
  
  Its safe to say this winning element in combat is the ultimate bread and butter of the entire game.
 
  
  Once you become comfortable in using all the available combos, which are some what limited, the 
 last leg of combat rests on firearms. The selection is very small, but that could be chalked up 
 to every weapon literally having the same range and damage. The pistol, which is usually equipped 
 with a silencer, is by far the most resourceful of the guns. Some assault rifles are good for spraying 
 tons of bullets, and the shotgun is very enjoyable to blast dudes with, yet there isn't much left 
 to favor. Using gun take downs is a cool way to shoot characters too far for accuracy purposes, 
 but not enough to take the lime light from hand to hand action.
  Actually exploring the levels is made very nicely, and its something I wish was more emphasized 
 on. Using the same contextual buttons presses that help in combat assist you well in environment 
 interaction. Jumping thru, over, and around the surrounding areas is made convenient. Yet when 
 pressing buttons to perform certain actions like taking cover and exchanging punches show delay, 
 the overall action is slightly hindered.
  
  VISUALS
  Something about action games a lot of gamers don't really understand nor I believe appreciate is 
 sacrifice. When creating a world thats already defined as "real" thanks to movies and such, recreating 
 that same world thru a videogame I feel requires a certain level of sacrifice. If not solely on 
 the developer, then at least the gamer has to excuse a portion of realism. With BC, you instantly 
 feel that way when closely looking over the cast of characters. Its not enough to claim as "cartoony", 
 but the difference is all the much easier to see when watching FMV's compared to actual gameplay 
 graphics. 
  A major reason I mention all this is because the environments in BC are very believable. Objects 
 are not really fully interactive, unless your tossing a thug face first into something, yet its 
 not hard to be sold on the linear locations. When taking notice to the character models and facial 
 design, then the complaints start to rise. Retro is a term worth using, but I'll chalk it up to 
 sacrifice. Especially when top-notch animation found in the take downs and gun play saves the day.
 
  
  AUDIO
  Any videogame that aspires to move you with its action packed gameplay can't depend entirely on 
 clever button presses and visual panache. You need presentation! With BC, you get a fair dose of 
 that thanks to the previous movie entries serving as a wonderful resource. 
  The music resembles the movies note for note; which is not so bad since the sneaking portions are 
 fitting to the tempo and the action parts really feel like a rollercoaster.
  Its hard to excuse, but as you trudge thru mountains of bad guys shooting and punching, the repetition 
 in music becomes really apparent and thats hurtful to say. A few tracks are really jamming, while 
 a few others are nothing more than looped beats that fade away when danger is settled. At least 
 the voice acting is varied and easy on the ears.
  Jason Bourne's voice, which you hear a fair amount of, is done by somebody other than Matt Damon 
 and sounds like a real spy dude. Other voices are pretty easy to stomach, which is mostly bad guys 
 groaning and yelling during combat, but its enough to enjoy and not too much to be over the top.
 
  
  EXTRAS
  The Bourne Conspiracy is a single player game. No online multiplayer, no co-op, no leaderboards, 
 and not much replay value to cap it off. All this could be considered a "bad" thing to any online 
 junkie; yet the game offers what its structured to provide, action and the power to deliver pain 
 thru a weapon or Jason Bourne's body. 
  Completing levels 1-11 provide a nice hunk of achievement points, but the real treasure is found 
 in taking out enemies in various fashions. Everything from take downs, to gun play, you choose 
 the opponents poison. And reward awaits anyone willing to shoot enough dudes in the face or break 
 enough bones against objects in the levels. If you rather play hide and seek, items called passports 
 are littered all across levels which are actually placed in believable spots that doesn't feel 
 like a tedious chore in searching after. Play straight thru BC on easy or medium difficulty and 
 I'm sure you can scoop up 400-500 achievement points. Go that extra distance replaying levels and 
 smashing more baddies than you can count and 1000 points will surely be yours.
  
  OVERALL
  Having a solid single player adventure that actually does justice for its movie origins 
 is some what of a rarity now a days. Which is a crying shame, but at least Bourne Conspiracy separates 
 itself with genuine gameplay and very few gimmicks.
  The idea that such an adventure should have offered more or at least had stronger replay value 
 is really stretching such a title. Even I can admit that! It sucks saying such a thing, because 
 I really wanted to enjoy this game a little longer, but the realization that its nothing more than 
 a fantastic rental is where I have to leave it. If you are a hardcore fan of the Bourne movies, 
 this game may have to be in your collection. If you want something that allows awesome bits of 
 action to enjoy over a weekend, give The Bourne Conspiracy videogame a legit chance; you may be 
 pleasantly surprised like how the movies were for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sLe7in
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  When you hear about movie adaptation games, the first thing that came into your mind probably is 
 the movie cash-in games those are usually terrible. However, Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Conspiracy 
 is not one of them. Although it's mostly based on the 2002 movie The Bourne Identity, it also took 
 parts of the novels those are not shown in the movie. So if you watched the movie or read the novels 
 you'll know what the plot of the game is. This game is the first and, for now, only game that allows 
 you to play as Jason Bourne, and it has done pretty well to capture the intensity of the movies 
 by bringing in the fight choreographer from the movie and using the similar movie scores.
  There are three types of gameplays: shooting, fighting, and driving. This game seamlessly combines 
 shooting and fighting together, which gives a fresh air to the action genre and authentic Bourne 
 feel to the game. The driving, however, is pretty bland probably because there is only one mission 
 that involves driving. The fighting is where the gameplay really shine. It uses three buttons to 
 perform your combos, heavy attack, weak attack and block. Because you can only use two buttons 
 to perform your attacks the combos are very limited. Then there is a takedown button which you 
 can press after you perform enough combos so that the adrenaline bars are filled. There are three 
 adrenaline bars. Every takedown you use will empty one bar. You can also use it to takedown multiple 
 enemies and every enemy will empty one bar. The wonderful thing about takedowns is they have lots 
 of animations available and it will differ from one enemy to three enemies. Those animations are 
 also brutal and, combined with wonderful sound effects, will give you satisfaction in performing 
 it. The shooting is pretty fine for the most part. The targeting aid is pretty unforgiving because 
 the reticule is very small which makes it pretty hard for you to hit your enemies, although you 
 can use Bourne Instinct that will directly move the reticule to the closest enemy on screen. You 
 can also use the adrenaline bars to perform shooting takedowns. But shooting takedowns gives you 
 less satisfaction due to the fact that it doesn't have a lot of animations. Like I said previously, 
 the game combines shooting and fighting seamlessly. This means when you're shooting, and if you 
 move close enough to the enemy it will then perform a disarming animation which will then continue 
 to the fighting gameplay. This combination gives it a true action which you can see in Bourne movies. 
 The weird thing with this transfer is that after you move to the fighting gameplay, Bourne seems 
 like he has forgotten where he put his gun, because you then can't switch back to shooting before 
 you knock your enemies out.
  The game length is fairly short, since it's only based on one movie, and also due to the fact that 
 it doesn't have multiplayer at all. It has some great achievements so that you can replay multiple 
 missions multiple times, though. You can also find passports in each level to unlock extras like 
 boss battles, artwork, music and cutscenes, although trying to find each passports available in 
 each level slower the pace of the otherwise fast paced action game.
  That said The Bourne Conspiracy is a great fast paced action game. Although the game do have multiple 
 weaknesses like the length of the game, collecting the passports which will eventually slower the 
 pace of the action, and the unforgiving targeting aid, the game gives you the authentic feel of 
 Bourne movies with intense action, brutal takedown animations, wonderful sound effects, and great 
 soundtrack, which gives all the reasons why this game shouldn't be missed by all Bourne fans or 
 fans of fast paced action games out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chief-Irons
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy 
  
  Strengths 
  Graphics, interesting combat system, good fire-fights, environmental takedowns, and interactive 
 cutscenes
  
  Weaknesses
  Limited weapon selection, short, bad storyline
  
  Those who love action will find plenty! Shoot, punch and kill in various different ways; from smashing 
 an enemy through a glass table or beating them with a spade! Good stuff so far, how's the story? 
 
  
  It's a pity I can't say positive things about the confusing storyline. Fans of Robert Ludlum's 
 character Jason Bourne might be able to piece together who the main character is through some flashbacks. 
 Personally I felt left out in the cold while the game jumped from one mission to another.
  
  When our hero gets up lose and personal with his enemies he launches into combat, during which 
 he can perform combos, block and move around. While the different combos are interesting, only 
 a few of them are actually useful. Another problem is that blocking allows me to avoid taking any 
 damage, making it far too easy. If I'm fighting while armed enemies are in the area they will try 
 and shoot, unless of course there buddies are in the line of fire. Realism for the win!
  
  The shooting mechanics such as lock on, and shooting conveniently placed explosive barrels work 
 well, despite the fact that enemies can take a ridicules amount of bullets and the weapon selection 
 is very limited, it was a solid experience thoughout. 
  
  When successfully shooting, punching or sneak attacking your target you will gain adrenaline. This 
 can be used to kill your enemies instantly. If Jason is in a fist fight then he will use a nearby 
 object to end his foe's miserable existence, or in a shootout he will automatically turn and kill 
 his enemy. Any difference between using adrenalin in fist fights and shootouts?
  
  In a word yes. When using adrenalin in shootouts I am required to press another button, if successful 
 I kill the enemy, if not he ducks then shoots me back. Where as in the fist fights I don't have 
 to press another person, unless I am using more of it to attack other opponents.
  
  Don't put the controller down during cutscenes, as button prompts will come up which, whether successful 
 or not, can decide your fate. Thankfully it does use a sound to indicate a second before each button 
 prompt; making the game fairer for casual gamers. 
  
  I had a lot of fun with this game, but because it's a short lived experience I would only rent 
 or buy it used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tttroy1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is an amazing game, it looks great, sounds great, and plays great, but not 
 for a long enough time! I was amazed at the innovation of this game, it was very hardcore hands 
 on action. Even in the cutscenes, it doesn't let you keep your hands off the controller. It plays 
 like any other 3rd person shooter, so it's more of the same, but with this game it's really cool. 
 The take downs in hand-to-hand combat as well as gunning are amazing to watch and really makes 
 it feel almost like a movie. There also weren't too many glitches, it froze on me only once and 
 with most games these days, thats pretty awesome. So you get the idea that this is an awesome game 
 right, good... Cuz that's kinda where it ends, right there! It's only a weekender game, took two 
 days and didn't even play it for a whole lot of time durring those two days. It's probably 6-7 
 hours and ending doesn't leave you satisfied. It's very abrupt, the last level is like any other 
 level, just another mission, then at the end theres a boss battle, then you kill him, then a cutscene, 
 then it's over. Nothing really leads up to it to even hint that it's almost over. It's just you 
 play through another level that's just like any other, then it's game over. If I were you, I'd 
 save myself some green and rent it, it's definantly worth playing, but not worth 50-60 bucks!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbionsHero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Robert Ludlum's Jason Bourne is a marvel of a character; designed just right and conforming to 
 whatever comes his way. Over the years Jason Bourne has become a Legacy in both books and movies. 
 Now his name has entered the world of video games. I'll go ahead and put this bluntly, this game 
 is only for the fans of the books and movies.
  
  While Sierra has obviously tried to follow well, the story of "The Bourne Identity" too much was 
 lost in the conversion. For someone who has never read the book or seen the movie, the game would 
 seem like a jumble of fighting scenes and poorly put together cut scenes. That may not be the case 
 for us fans out there, but for everyone else the story is not explained well enough to comprehend. 
 This is a story so complex that people have to watch the movie over and over or the 600+ page book 
 multiple times just to begin to understand what goes on. That being said, it is impossible to convert 
 that much of a complex story into a short video game.
  
  Other than the broken story line which only fans will appreciate, or even understand, the rest 
 of the game has plenty of pro's and con's to give you mixed feelings. The combat system is complex 
 in a good way and can be very, very fun, however there is no stategy to it and can get very old 
 quickly. (Button mashing anyone?) I will say that the enviroment is pheonominal, and no not in 
 terms of graphics. You can practically use anything as a weapon. Grab your opponent and drown him 
 in a sink, or smash his head into an electrical box, it's your choice.
  
  This game is definetly worth playing, but only for the fans. It's got a fun combat system, but 
 in can get a little old after a while. The story line is interesting, but it's nothing new and 
 hard for non-fans to understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a game that seems to have divided players. 
  
  The negative ones point out that the game is short (true)
  That the shooting is completely off 
 (true)
  That the driving level is lackluster (also true)
  And that the fighting and timed button pressing cutscenes are nothing short of button mashing (not 
 so true)
  
  But none of this means a thing if you get what Bourne is really about.
  Dirty, visceral, hand to hand combat, escaping capture, running for your life espionage action. 
 And for that you can not fault it. 
  
  It does exactly what it says on the tin, and that's putting you right in the action and giving 
 you the feeling of what it's like to be a government weapon.
  
  You'll never get bored of taking guys out with chairs or jabbing pens into their hand. 
  
  
 So the shooting and driving aren't perfect, so what?
  
  8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparowprime
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Time after time again, I have expressed to people how I wish that they would make a game that has 
 "bourne" style combat, even before I know about the creation of a game taken directly from that 
 source material. Seeing the on-screen avitar pull off equal portions of jaw droppingly quick and 
 beautiful martial art feats, would be a dream come true. My expectations could be nothing less 
 than maxed out, which is not somthing I usually do with a movie tie in. So I rent this thing, and 
 within 10 minutes of playing it, I painfully realize that a horrendous crime has been commited 
 on the video game community! This is not a video game, I have just rented the most interactive 
 DVD version of the Bourne Identity known to man. Okay time out, let me give credit where credit 
 is due before I start getting hate mail. The visuals in the game are nothing short of stunning, 
 with its well crafted but repeditive character models, and detailed looking enviornments. Explosions 
 are also top notch, with some great fire effects. The sounds of the game hit the mark with some 
 inpressive impact and swing sounds from combat, BMG music, and dialog. Now here is where we transition 
 into the disapointing part. The majority of the outstandingly well coriagraphed combat sections, 
 are handled throug a series of QTEs. Now, I've got no problem with the way they are exicuted, there 
 the best part of the game, it's just that it happens to be the only good part of the game as well. 
 The basic combat which should be the meat and potatoes of the package is below average. Some of 
 the worst action games on the market have more than a 3 hit combo system. This is supposed to be 
 Jasson Bourne, but he fights more like one of the double dragon twins from the old coin up arcade! 
 The only practicle function of the basic combat system is to build up the meter that governs the 
 QTE sequences so you can give control of the fighting back to the computer. Sure, it's better than 
 playing Shenmue, but at least the Shenmue games had a wide veriaty of fighting moves and an open 
 environment to explore, with non linier gameplay. Out side of the computer controled fighting, 
 which gets really old and repetative, the rest of the game just isn't taken very seriously. There 
 is no way to expand the already limited move set, or the "takedown" moves as there called in the 
 game. It would have been nice to at least have some choices of the takedowns unleashed during gameplay, 
 similar to the peice selection before a mission on Mark Echo's Getting Up. I had Bourne stand out 
 in the open while an enemy behind cover unloaded several clips into Bourne, (on normal difficulty) 
 and continued until I decided to run right up to him and perform a takedown move. Surrounding enemies 
 have no choice but to take turns hitting you because they did not realize a way to engage several 
 enemies at once like the real Bourne. It's so polite of them to patiently wait their turn while 
 you...... while the QTE takes his buddy apart before he remembers he's supposed to kill you, but 
 it's beyond lame. The takedown system is a great idea to use your environment to your advantage, 
 but only as a compliment to an existing fully realized fighting mechanic. There is one driving 
 scene, and by the time you're comfortable with it, it's over. The shooting is really forgetable, 
 and it's so dull, I don't even know why they bothered to include guns. All in all, the action is 
 note worthy, which makes it a blast to watch, but is not interactive enough to be a decent video 
 game experince for the player. They could have done so much better, mabey they will next time out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  I was really surprised with myself when I rented this game because when I saw that they were making 
 a Bourne video game I really thought it was just going to be another worthless money maker, well 
 I was very close with that idea. This game can be seen as a good expansion on the Bourne story, 
 just a very little though, so I don't think even hard core fans of the story would be orgasming 
 over how great it is to see these very short clips of Bourne's past. 
  
  Ok so the story is basically the first movie with a flash back here and there, so there isn't much 
 I would want to go into because I'm going to assume you already know what the Bourne series is 
 about. If you don't then it is about a spy that has amnesia and doesn't know why people want to 
 kill him. I won't go any further because I kind of don't want to ruin the movies because they are 
 actually pretty good. 
  
  So there is the game-play to go over. First off, this game really tried to put the action packed 
 fight scenes that were well done in the movies, into a game form of them. This didn't turn out 
 well since you only have two punches, hard and not so hard. There are combos that do cause some 
 more damage, but you could simply fight your way through many, many, many of these very generic 
 C. I. A. or some other spy agency slave, by simply pushing one button over again. Oh yeah they also 
 give you a block button, which I didn't use much and only came into handy when I played on hard 
 and took half the game to realize that I forgot they have a block button. They also have these 
 takedowns; these are where they try to put the Bourne fight scenes in the game. After you get your 
 adrenaline meter up, which you do that by killing people, then an icon for the B button shows up 
 on the screen, which starts a short cut-scene where you watch what you want to be doing in this 
 game. 
  
  After fighting (and shooting which I forgot about, but if you have ever play a 3rd-person shooter 
 then you already know what is there, also they have the takedowns with the shooting, but you just 
 watch the main character shoot them with better accuracy than you will ever have) for a very long 
 time and sprinting away from danger, you will encounter a boss fight, which are mostly just stronger 
 slaves to these organizations. So just sitting there blocking while you wait for the time to punch 
 him once and then slowly build up your adrenaline to beat him with takedowns. This can be very 
 frustrating and tends to cause the game to lose what little it had going for it which was the action 
 packed running.
  
  Pretty much even writing this I'm at a loss of words, for this game really has nothing going for 
 it. After you beat the story in under a day, a real life day not playing this game for a day straight, 
 there isn't anything else you can do but try to get the repetitive achievements which are mostly 
 do some sort of takedown for 500 times. All I can say about this game is, don't buy it, but if 
 you want to play it, then rent it. Also they have a driving level, which could have been replaced 
 by the bad cut-scene button timing sequences. Also there are button timing sequences. As you can 
 see this game really doesn't make you remember what you did since it is all about watching what 
 happens more than actually doing it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  Movie games have been on a downhill slide in recent years, but can The Bourne Conspiracy turn this 
 around, just as the film series did for spy thrillers back in 2002?
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy, published by Sierra, follows the plot of hit-movie, The Bourne Identity, 
 and also adds additional flashback levels, based loosely on scenes from the Bourne novels.
  
  Throughout the adventure, you view Bourne from a Gears of War style over-the-shoulder perspective, 
 which works very well running on the same engine as Gears. It's worth noting though at this point 
 that the likeness of Matt Damon, the film's star, is not present in the final game due to what 
 Sierra called "creative differences." This does retract slightly from the sense of being immersed 
 in the Bourne movie, but you'll often find yourself imagining yourself as Bourne, thanks to the 
 character's generic "rugged young hero" appearance.
  
  One of the things you'll notice right from the get-go is the gorgeous environments. Unlike other 
 Unreal 3 games, you won't find everything shining unrealistically here. Instead, you'll see gritty 
 textures and well designed architecture, which are beautifully lit. The attention to detail is 
 great as well. You'll see plenty of NPCs, many of which will behave and respond realistically to 
 your actions. One level takes place during a terrorist attack on an airport in which hundreds of 
 people are panicking and running for their lives. In quieter public areas you can see people going 
 about their daily business, including workmen putting up signs in a town square during the opening 
 level. Admittedly, an awful lot of this stuff is scripted but it's a great step towards getting 
 you immersed in the Bourne universe.
  
  On the other hand, a lot of objects in the world are quite bland, including some of the characters. 
 Most of the film's characters, like Marie and Conklin, look fine, but the vast majority of enemies 
 are grainy by comparison.
  
  Gameplay wise, Bourne is a mixture of Gears-like duck and cover shooting and hand-to-hand combat, 
 with a driving level thrown in for good measure. The shooting is confusing to begin with because 
 you instantly expect it to follow the usual 3rd person control conventions. However, in this game 
 you don't always have to hold the left trigger to go into aim-mode, it depends on what cover (if 
 any) you're behind. It's not terrible; it just takes a short while to settle in with its quirks.
 
  
  Like the movie, the focus here is unashamedly on the fist fights. Using combinations of X and Y 
 (and A to block) you can come up with a variety of moves to beat down your opponents. Though it 
 isn't the deepest combat system, the blows feel solid enough to make it very satisfying. You also 
 have an adrenaline bar which you build up to perform "takedowns." These are performed simply by 
 pressing B when prompted and usually involve smashing your adversary face first into whatever is 
 nearby, from kitchen sinks to iron railings. Again, this follows the formula of simple, but satisfying. 
 You can also perform more elaborate takedowns on multiple opponents and shooting takedowns with 
 weapons. These require a quick-time-event (QTE) to complete the move. Many of the game's cut-scenes 
 are also heavy on the QTEs, which, while it's a good way for the player to interact with the film's 
 more elaborate sequences, you can't help but feel there's just a few too many.
  
  Finally there's the solitary driving level, which follows the Paris car-chase from The Bourne Identity. 
 The steering is very loose and it feels quite floaty, but hey, this isn't a sim, it's a Hollywood 
 blockbuster. The main set-pieces from the movie's chase (and a few more) are in there and it's 
 great fun. The only downside is that it doesn't use Paul Oakenfold's "Ready Steady Go" track which 
 was used in the film. Though, I had that playing using custom soundtracks anyway.
  
  This brings me to the music of The Bourne Conspiracy. It's easily the best use of a movie's actual 
 score in-game. All of the film's music is present in all of the right places (except for the Paris 
 chase as mentioned already) and the flashback missions have great music too, which was based on 
 John Powell's movie score and written by Paul Oakenfold.
  
  The music, combined with the cut-scene camera angles, which match the movie shot-for-shot in places, 
 really make this a must have for hardcore fans of the film series. The fights and level designs 
 also feel like they were ripped straight from the big screen and though the game is short, you'll 
 feel like you really are Bourne, all the way through. Finally, the addition of some well thought 
 out achievements and genuine difficulty on Assassin settings, make this one of the most endearing 
 and rewarding film tie-ins that you're ever likely to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koospetoors
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Bourne is back, but the badass Bourne from the movies, this game has nothing to do with the books.
 
  
  Bourne Conspiracy sort of follows the first movie, the Bourne Identity, but instead it shows us 
 Bourne's previous targets by beginning straight before the Bourne Identity, were he has to assassinate 
 Wombosi. after that, its just Bourne Identity with a few flashbacks in between.
  
  The gameplay mixes good gunfights with awesome fist fights, with the obvious bossfight in the end 
 of half every level. 
  
  First the gunfights: you basically get about three assault rifles, two small arms, no grenades or 
 rocket launcher (which sucks) and a shotgun (two if you use the cheat) and then you shoot ok-ish 
 AI that takes cover, but also sometimes just storm towards you. the guns lack punch in the Assassin 
 difficulty although they sound intimidating, and you only get a worthwhile gun in the end, also the 
 hit detection is a bit off, sometimes you can shoot an enemy in the head and... nothing, the bullet 
 just goes straight through. You can also take cover behind objects, but there are two things wrong 
 here
  
  1. there is no blind fire.
  
  2. sometimes when something explodes nearby Bourne, he will get out of his cover and take a few 
 bullets, which could sometimes lead to his death, same with the takedowns (I'll say more about that 
 later on)
  
  the fistfights: Here is the Highlight of the game, the fisticuffs, its fast, brutal and fun, also challenging. 
 when you get nearby an enemy you (or sometimes the enemy self) will try and get the first shot 
 in and then you can engage in a proper fistfight, here you have a light attack (X) and a Heavy attack 
 (Y) that you can do combos with, it looks like there's only eight combos. The AI is also quite ruthless 
 in Assassin difficulty.
  
  there are also takedowns, which you can use if you have one bar of your adrenaline bar (which can 
 be achieved by shooting\beating or killing the enemy) at the lower right full, during a takedown 
 Bourne will either just hit the living crap out of him in a unique way, or use the nearest object 
 to inflict as much pain as possible on him.
  
  You also have shooting takedowns, which allows Bourne to dispose of one enemy (or alot, depending 
 on how many bars you have maxed, which there are three in total) just by pressing the right button 
 that gets showed on the screen. plus! there also is sprinting takedowns, which you can use to easily 
 kill an enemy with out actually having to stop for a fistfight. and there is also multiple takedowns, where 
 you can take out three (or two) enemies at just the press of a few buttons.
  
  the bossfights are also great fun, mainly because they can take a lot of takedowns because the takedowns 
 are amazingly fun to pull off and your normal enemies can only take one, these guys can take about 
 nine. which leads to some "holy christ on a bike, that must hurt" moments
  
  the graphics are very good, (explosions aren't very good though) , although it isn't in the league 
 of crysis and cod4, its good enough. also there are a few nice details put into this game, like the 
 bruises left on Bourne's face after a hard fistfight and the lip syncing. and this game just rocks 
 when it comes to the airport level, where the citizens there run for cover while terrorists shoot 
 over them and stuff, its quite hard to explain, but that is the most hectic level in the game for 
 me.
  
  there are also a few extras, but the only way to unlock them is to collect all the passports in 
 a level, which can be a bit tedious because the game is quite fast paced, stopping to search for 
 them is just wrong.
  
  Bourne is an awesome game with great gameplay, but the camera and AI could have been better and 
 the guns also need some more power.
  
  also, the driving scene in the game is actually quite good, the car can handle quite easily and the 
 destruction is quite good, but it also, could have been better.
  
  but this game is definitely worth it.
  
  Buy it? YES!!!
  
  Rent it? if your uncertain, yes
 
  
  still not certain?
  
  read some other reviews
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarblazerTM
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne conspiracy is one of those games that when you first see it you just ignore it, thinking 
 that it will be another one of those bad movie to game conversions.
  But guess what? It turns out it is a very good game a little basic but good none the less.
  
 
  Now the gameplay consists of four parts melee fights, shooting, driving and boss battles.
  
  Melee fights are easy to learn and master, There are four different buttons to be used, the A button 
 blocks the X button does fast punches, the Y button does heavy punches and the B button uses an 
 adrenaline bar to instantly incapacitate an enemy. You can also hold down the X button to do a long 
 but weaker kick or the Y button to do a short but strong kick. If your smart you will mix the buttons 
 up to use the various different combos.
  
  Shooting is very similar to games like splinter cell and metal gear solid 4, except when you have 
 enough adrenaline you can use the B button to do a shooting takedown which will kill an enemy instantly. Driving 
 isnt a major part of this game considering that you only drive the over advertised mini cooper 
 in one level, but it is also one of the best levels in the game and thats saying something. Controls 
 for driving are simple.. just like any driving game on the xbox 360.
  Smash stuff to get more adrenaline ad in turn use that adrenaline to get a little boost.
  
 
  Boss battles are like the melee fights except you have to fight a much bigger and stronger opponent 
 than you by using the environment to your advantage.
  
  The story is basically the Bourne Identity but with some minor things replaced by flashback missions 
 that give you a better understanding of Bournes character.
  
  Overall I give this game a 9/10 because while it may not innovate anything it doesnt screw up anything 
 either and it has alot of replayability too.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 10, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  In arguably one of the best movie-based games available, Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Conspiracy 
 makes up for its flaws by delivering fast-paced and non-stop action. The game takes place during 
 the timeline of the first of the Bourne films; it starts just as the movie starts and ends just 
 as the movie ends. Everything in between is also portrayed very well in the game. The only real 
 difference is that the character in the game looks nothing like Matt Damon.
  
  The gameplay is simple; shoot your way from point A to point B, with the occasional boss battle. 
 Hand-to-hand combat is where the game succeeds above all other aspects. The combos that can be 
 executed are simple enough to pull off and deliver quite a punch. Adrenaline can be built up by 
 fighting hand-to-hand or by shooting enemies. As adrenaline builds, special attacks can be done 
 to either take down an enemy's health significantly, or to eliminate them completely. This can 
 also be used with the environment to create some really cool take down sequences.
  
  The boss battles in the game a very, very challenging. After most of the fights and at the end 
 of each level, a cutscene will start and during it you will be prompted to press certain buttons 
 to advance the scene. This fails on all levels. It is not fun and it is very frustrating, especially 
 when you press the wrong button and have to start the whole "cutscene" and sometimes even the previous 
 gameplay over again.
  
  The one and only driving level in the game is probably one of the worst experiences ever. It is 
 very reminiscent of some of the horrible driving mechanics in early PS2 driving games. Its frustrating 
 and not very exciting.
  
  Overall, the game delivers great action and fighting sequences. It is definitely one that is worth 
 playing, but not one to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enzo2606
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I have beaten this game one hour ago. It took me less than 8 hours to beat it. I started the game 
 friday night.
  
  Since I started to play this game It hooked me from the very beginning. 
  
  There are things 
 I think it is great:
  1) Many checkpoints. I don't like to go back and try something that could take me 20 minutes and 
 waste my time. So that I think that many checkpoints is something great of this game.
  2) The game is a great representation of the bourne movies.
  
  Things I think could be better/improved:
 
  1) Cut scenes too short and no well-elaborated. I like games which makes you feel sad, happiness 
 or ever hate. This game did not make me feel anything. Just shoot and fight.
  2) It is too short the game for the money. If the game were longer maybe It would not have liked 
 due to the game style. But for 59,99 bucks you would need to be amortised it for at least 15 hours.
 
  
  I recommend to play this game if you are bored and you do not have anything to do... I say so because 
 you can start playing this game at 3pm and beating it before 11pm with some breaks.
  
  Play it..... Easy way to get achievement in xbox live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRooskie
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne series as a whole, the novels and movies, hold a very special place in my heart. I never 
 get tired of watching Matt Damon beat the hell out someone with a book. After playing The Bourne 
 Conspiracy I came to realize that this game didn't do Ludlum's legacy any favors. 
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy is loosely based on the first film (if you have seen it) . It starts off the 
 exact same way the movie does, Jason's body floating in a stormy sea. While this opening cinematic 
 will give you some hope for the games storyline, you'll be horrible mistaken as I was. Now, the 
 reason I say the game is "loosely" based on the first film is because it does an absolutely horrible 
 job of pulling all of it together. The plot is broken up into bits and pieces, huge parts of dialog 
 are missing and Jason's coma goes almost completely unexplained or even addressed, If you weren't 
 paying attention, you would probably miss it. 
  
  If the "main" story line wasn't bad enough, the developer thought it would be a good idea to give 
 Bourne "flashbacks." These are sequences in the game where entirely new missions are thrown at 
 the player without much reason or explanation. They almost seem entirely unprovoked as Jason will 
 revert back to them for no real reason at all. Anyways, these are missions that you didn't see 
 in the movies. The only one of these flashbacks that hold a real relevance to the game or novels 
 for that matter is the first one, where Jason is ordered to assassinate Wombosi, the rest are just 
 random and frustrating. Bottom line about the story is that it is hardly here, and it leaves out 
 all of the compassionate moments where you feel connected to a man that has lost all of his memory 
 and is being hunted vigorously by assassins, government agencies and has no idea why. Truly a disappointment. 
 
  
  On a higher note, one of the marks I absolutely have to give this game is for the graphics and 
 presentation. The Unreal 3 engine is put to excellent use in The Bourne Conspiracy. Characters 
 and environments come together nicely and are very believable. If you have an HD solution, prepare 
 to enjoy a very good looking game all around. Animations are crisp and responsive, there are a 
 few glitches during larger action sequences, but even there are rare. The game will run at a constant 
 45-55 frames per second. During larger or intense action scenes the game may dip to 20 or 30, but 
 it doesn't really upset the gameplay too much. Physics are cool, but they could definitely be better, 
 after all this game was endorsed by Aeigia Physix. It's kid of disappointing that more wasn't done 
 along the lines of destructibility. There is little to no screen tearing what so ever and almost 
 no texture pop-in. I give the GFX for this game a 9 out of 10. 
  
  The last part of this review of mine is gameplay. The Bourne Conspiracy combines 3rd person action 
 with shooting, and fighting. Maybe even a small amount of stealth. The shooting mechanics are very 
 basic, body, arm and leg shots do less damage, head shots are one hitter quitters. There are only 
 a handful of weapons to pick up in the game as well, but the majority of them are here, assault 
 rifles, pistols, shotguns. Snipers however are only playable in two parts of the game and those 
 are timed button presses, so you don't actually get to control the sniper rifle and scope itself. 
 I felt that was disappointing.
  
  The other side to gameplay is hand-to-hand combat. This is the alternative to shooting and is most 
 preferable in close quarters situations. There are a few combos which can be activated by clicking 
 the X and Y buttons. Y is your heavy set of attacks and your X being light attacks, the A button 
 is to block. Blocking is morbidly easy, just hold the A button down and you wont take damage. When 
 you combine these three things you have the basis for hand to hand combat. It's very simple, and 
 you will get the hang of it in no time. As far as the length of the game, you can probably beat 
 the game on its' hardest difficulty and pick up half of the achievements in 7-10 hours. Seriously, 
 this game is short. I normally wouldn't judge a game based on it's length, but the Bourne Conspiracy 
 has almost no replay to it. After playing the game for 15 hours, I have beaten the game on all 
 difficulties and picked up 710 gamer score as well. There is just no way I can recommend someone 
 spending 50 to 60 bucks on this game. Go rent it. Bottom line. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrueSonOfSparda
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I went to my cousins house and he had what is called The Bourne Conspiracy. When I first heard 
 of it, I thought it was going to be ok. Well I was wrong. When I played it, it sucked me in, until 
 i beat it. I started at 9 in the afternoon and finished around 3 o'clock. That was the end of playing 
 that game, but it was one of the most fun experiences ever. The gun play was poor, but who cares. 
 Even during scenes when I needed to use a gun, I still went crazy whooping peoples asses with my 
 god hand. The only bad things about the game is: A. After beating it there is nothing to go back 
 to. B. The gun play sucks. C. There are not too many combos to pull off. Being a DMC and Soul Caliber 
 fan, the combos are pretty basic. Its still fun though. When you hit some one, it feels like you 
 are doing those loud, over dramatic punches Batman did in The Dark Knight. I felt like an idiot 
 playing the game because I was saying, "oh" and "booya" each time I landed an adrenaline move (I 
 think I had more adrenaline playing that game then Bourne ever had!) . Even during a period of stealth 
 scenes, I still was adrenalized. This is a game that everyone has to rent (please don't buy!!!) . 
 So go out there and kick some ASS!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: con_matrix
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 23, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought it for 45 from asda and got it home at 11am and watched the credits at 4pm. Easiest boss 
 battles i've ever seen like castel and soloman. The only one that really challenged me was the 
 professor and thats only because of the time limit. I enjoyed finding the guy in the busy streets 
 on the first level although it only took me about 2 minutes before i realised what you had to do. 
 The graphics are definitely on the pro side of the game. If anyone was to buy this game i'd recommend 
 to buy it pre-owned and to play it on the hardest difficulty available. For this kind of money 
 I would either recommend Battlefield: Bad Company or a two for 40 in Gamestation. If anyone tells 
 you you need to get it or they say it's brilliant make them give you a reason and it won't be a 
 substantial one I bet. Basic summary: Mix of Chase H. Q. for driving=simple, Metal gear solid 4 
 for shooting=challenging at times and tekken for fighting=Fairly easy but you get the odd death. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpiggy17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that this game is very, very fun. The hand to hand combat is intense and 
 taking down your enemies by smashing their heads into desks or hitting them in the face with fire 
 extinguishers never gets old. BUT i would under no circumstances reccomend you buy it. It just 
 isnt a big enough game to be worth dishing out that much money. The campaign is pretty short; i 
 beat it in a little over 6 hours. There is also no multiplayer, online or off. : (
  The levels are fun, and definitely replayable, but by the time your rental period is up you can 
 easily have gotten most or all of the achievements and played through the more fun levels plenty 
 of times. The achievements are generally pretty easy to get, so if you want to boost your gamerscore 
 then go for it- i rented it on a monday and returned it on that friday with 800 brand new gs points. 
 
  So yeah, it's a very fun game, it's just not deep enough to be worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox1397
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying how great the movies were. Also how upset I was when i found out that Matt 
 Damon was not doing the voice over. That saying, this game gets all the fighting aspects of the 
 movie and more. Every time you land a blow, or shove a bad guy's face into a wall or even break 
 someone's arm, you are amazed. In the movies Bourne's philosophy is fight first use the gun second. 
 In this game Bourne is really trigger happy. He uses guns too much. If the design team was going 
 to make using guns a key part of the game they could have fixed it. The camera angles are awkward, 
 and the aiming system is all bad. One of the key parts of the movies were the car chases. In the 
 game i really hate the Paris chase. It is too one-dimensional. The real reason you should buy or 
 play this game is for the fighting. If you love the movies you should love the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coded12
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:48 am PT
Review:  Bourne Conspiracy follows the character of Jason Bourne through his past and the present life. 
 It vaguely follows the plot of the films but concentrates more on the past events. The game is 
 made up of a combination of both 3rd person shooting and hand to hand combat. While both sections 
 are entertaining I can see that more emphasise has been put on the hand to hand combat. The hand 
 to hand combat allows you to string together light attacks, heavy attacks and special moves. The 
 fighting is fast paced, exciting and on the harder difficulties will test your abilities. The shooting 
 is also good fun with special takedown moves also being included.
  
  The graphics are in my opinion spectacular in places, whereas other times they don't look quite 
 as crisp and realistic which is a shame. The gameplay is fun and addictive all of the way through 
 with the hand to hand combat being the highlight. The games main flaw and letdown is the length. 
 With the game taking roughly 6 hours to complete on the medium difficulty. There are things to 
 go back for such as passports which will unlock extras, achievements and the hard mode.
  
  In conclusion this is a solid game which in my opinion is by far the best game based on a movie. 
 Both the graphics and gameplay are excellent however the game is let down by its length.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Bourne fans, this is your dream come true. The Bourne Conspiracy is one of the most fun games of 
 the year and is easily one of the best movie games of all time and the best since The Godfather. 
 The Bourne Conspiracy gets everything down perfect to give you the ulitmate Bourne experience (minus 
 Matt Damon, Clive Owen, Franka Potente and Chris Cooper) . This is truly a gaming experience that 
 cannot be missed. Whether you are fighting enemies hand to hand or with guns anyone who is a fan 
 of the series or spy movies/games in general should definately play this game.
  
  The story of The Bourne Conspiracy is centered around the story of the first Bourne movie The Bourne 
 Identity where Jason Bourne is found floating off the coast of Marsailles and he has no clue who 
 he is and why he is there, all he has is a number and a bank address. The story unfolds almost 
 identical to the movie, but for those like myself who have seen the movie way too many times there 
 are just as many missions that dive deeper into the Bourne universe. You will play missions in 
 Bourne's past that will help you understand the story just that much better.
  
  The gameplay in The Bourne Conspiracy is based around the fist fights, just like in the movies. 
 Jason Bourne may be well trained with weapons but his real weapons are his fists and that is definately 
 shown in the game. There are a good around of shooting missions which control very nicely but the 
 real empasis is on the hand to hand combat. There are so many different combos and takedowns that 
 you can do you relaly feel like you are inside of the game and that you are Jason Bourne. The character 
 moves just like Matt Damon does in the movie and it is actually quite impressive. The game even 
 features one driving mission which controls quite well even though it was obviously not their main 
 concern it still plays nicely.
  
  The graphics in The Bourne Conspiracy are quite good in-game, but a lot of the cutscenes (especially 
 the dark ones) do not look very good. They are very grainy and at times it is very hard to know 
 just what exactly you are looking at. I found this quite interesting because most games the cutscenes 
 look better than the actual in game stuff does. The character models do look good, but they would 
 have looked even better if they had gotten the real actors to lend their appearances to the game. 
 Of all the of the main characters in the game I would have to say that Marie is the one that looks 
 the most like the actress that plays her in the movies.
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy sounds good. The bullets sound good and as do the fist fights. You can hear 
 what sounds like bones breaking as you beat the pulp out of your opponents. The voice-overs are 
 good but they don't really sound anything like the actors in the game, which is too bad because 
 I have no clue how amazing this game would be if they had gotten the actors to lend their voices 
 to the game because it would have given it that much more of a cinematic feel to an already very 
 cinematic game, its too bad. The theme song from the Bourne games is here and is played in the 
 background quite a bit along with a thrilling score that puts you into the game.
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy is a short game, I beat it in two days of moderate-heavy gaming, but I loved 
 every second of it and if I had not rented it I would have loaded the game up again! There is something 
 about the achievements in this game that give it strong replay value. None of them are impossible 
 (it seems like every game has one or two that don't even seem plausable) , but none of them are 
 super easy. You get them for getting a certain amount of takedowns, completeing them on different 
 difficulties, or collecting passports. I know that there are some people out there who could care 
 less about achievements but there is just something about this game that makes it a blast to play 
 over and over again. So despite being a short single player with no multiplayer there is definate 
 reason to play through it again.
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy is an amazing game. Hurray, a great movie game and this will most likely 
 be the best one of 2008 and the best one since 2006 if you ask me. The Bourne Conspiracy is a game 
 that cannot be missed. If you are a fan of the movies, action movies/games than you need to play 
 this game because I can guarentee that you will have a blast. Despite being on the short side (6-8 
 hours) and the fact that it has no multiplayer you will definately want to play this game again 
 because of the fun achievements and the overall fun factor of playing as Jason Bourne the 30 Million 
 Dollar Man is enough to make you want to play through the game atleast twice. I was worried that 
 the hand to hand combat would get repetative along with the takedowns, but they never did. I really 
 hope that this game sells and does well enough that they make a game based off of the Bourne Supremacy 
 and another game based off of Bourne Ultimatum because the perfect blend of a familiar story line 
 and some never before seen missions is heaven for series fans such as myself. Those looking for 
 a fun, rainy weekend action game should look no further than Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Conspiracy! 
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 7/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Value: 8/10
  Tilt: 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_zander
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Being Jason Bourne may look glamorous, but in reality it's probably not. Yes, you get to bring 
 down the silly old CIA using rusty old cars and biros and then go and live on a beach with Franka 
 Potente, but you also have to remember numbers, sleep rough, wipe down hotel rooms and put up with 
 headaches. We'd still rather own a Velcro patent or get a discount at Thresher. Fortunately High 
 Moon Studios thought of that and so Bourne Conspiracy is about doing all the cool things in Robert 
 Ludlum's books and the Matt Damon films, and in some respects it does them well.
  
  There's the nucleus of a fun game in Bourne's hand-to-hand skills, for instance. You have two attack 
 buttons, which allow you to perform a range of basic combos, and as long as you remember to block 
 when the other guy hits back you can quickly build up "adrenaline" and do Bourne's signature takedowns: 
 slick, violent finishing moves that smash goons into the wall and elbow them in the head as they 
 bounce away, or crush their windpipes and crack their knees in one fluid motion.
  
  The fighting snaps the dynamic camera to the side so you can see what's going on, but otherwise 
 we're in third-person shooter territory, running around docks, embassies, yachts and airports ducking 
 behind cover and shooting people with pistols, shotguns and assault rifles. Bourne's super-assassin 
 intuition is replicated by a "Bourne Instinct" button that feeds waypoints to a mini-map and lights 
 up enemies, helpfully guiding your gun-sight to them, although leaving you to adjust the aiming 
 rather than locking on. Aiming is awkward and movement is ungainly, with too many controls to worry 
 about on the first couple of levels, but you get into a tolerable rhythm.
  
  The other major gameplay element is quick-time events, where you hit a face button as prompted 
 on-screen during what's otherwise an in-game cut-scene. The way they're implemented is sensible 
 - you're shown a button layout with the correct response highlighted, rather than just being shown 
 the button on its own, and this makes it easier to react - and they improve a few sequences. One 
 - a long-range rifle assassination in a university - is actually a high point in the game as a 
 whole, as Bourne coolly guides his sights through the chaos on the ground, picking off bodyguards 
 and moving targets as if he's that lanky sniper in the bell-tower out of Saving Private Ryan. All 
 of this is seamlessly integrated with the other elements.
  
  As we all know, there are three Bourne films at this point, but Conspiracy focuses on the first 
 story, Identity, in which Jason Bourne has to work out who he is and kill off the people coming 
 after him. To this end High Moon also recreates a lot of the key action sequences: escaping the 
 US embassy in Zurich, the fight with another CIA assassin in a Paris apartment, the car chase, 
 and so on. These are quite compact levels, rarely drawn out in the way that adaptations tend to 
 be. The CG cut-scenes agree with Doug Liman's film direction and camera angles, and the wardrobe 
 department and set designers, and even the music, although it's subtly different here.
  
  The main difference is Bourne himself, because Matt Damon decided not to get involved, but where 
 the game willingly goes its own way is in flashback levels, which dramatise the run-up to the botched 
 assassination attempt on Nykwana Wombosi off the French coast that got Bourne into trouble in the 
 first place, and show you a few of the CIA's other hits, like a war criminal who runs riot in a 
 Swiss airport with an army of hooded terrorists.
  
  These are a bit more hit-and-miss. They have their moments, usually when the developer's getting 
 the most out of the Unreal Engine 3: fighting your way out of a burning distillery, for instance, 
 and going hand-to-hand with military police on a rooftop as red sniper beams cut past you in the 
 direction of the camera. When they're well-lit, the character models are muscular and convincing 
 and the fight animations are superb. But for the most part these levels are meandering, ugly and 
 overlong, and the linearity grates. The airport level is a contrived procession up and down escalators, 
 through fenced off duty-free shops and food courts and down a subway before ending up on a cargo 
 plane, and wherever you go you're treated to plenty of corridors, offices, kitchens, alleyways 
 and locked doors, served up between inconsistently spaced automatic save checkpoints.
  
  There's a bit of deviation from the above that's worth noting. The initial sprint through the US 
 embassy when you're told not to kill anyone is quite frantic and arresting, and there's also the 
 car chase, which makes good use of the Bourne Instinct to help you steer through packed intersections 
 and panicked motorists in slow-motion, although the rest of the level falls flat thanks to rubbish 
 handling, and canned dramatic detours down alleyways and through glass shop-fronts.
  
  This sort of thing would be easier to tolerate if the fight-and-shoot gameplay was going anywhere, 
 but it doesn't. You'll chuckle along to the first dozen or so hand-to-hand takedowns, but "weaponising" 
 the environment - using fire extinguishers, pens and other props to pull off different takedowns 
 - always amounts to the same thing with a slightly different animation, and there's no evolution 
 of the core combinations, just less tolerance of mistakes and impatience. You'll come to resent 
 the boss enemies' resilience and patterns, too - the inevitable production of a knife, and never 
 taking damage when you block their attempted takedowns, even though you do if the opposite happens 
 to you.
  
  Shooting never gets any better, either, as you struggle to target people until you've shot them 
 enough to trigger the  death animation or an unconvincing contextual 
 topple over a railing. The gun takedowns, which also use quick-time events, don't look as good 
 as the hand-to-hand ones, although you'll still try and use them to avoid more shooting. After 
 games like Gears of War, Uncharted and GTA IV, Bourne's alternative is a letdown.
  
  Bland and repetitious level design and uneven gameplay isn't a very glamorous problem to have, 
 but in the end it fits. Even the in-game advertising is boring: no, we don't want a MasterCard, 
 but thanks for asking on every billboard in every level. You aren't going to "Become Bourne", as 
 the box instructs, because that would be difficult, so you just perform simple approximations of 
 a few of the things he did in the films over and over again as the game pushes you down set paths. 
 There's no multiplayer, and for replay value all you've got is the option to hunt for glowing passports 
 a few paces off the beaten and boring track.
  
  There are still times when you'll enjoy yourself, but they're few and far between, and ultimately 
 prove to be poor compensation for the loss of the intrigue, subtlety and intelligence that characterised 
 the films and books whose bullet-riddled back the game is straddling. Whether it's possible to 
 make a good Bourne game is debatable anyway, but this is a bad argument for another.
  
  In spite of this said, its an overall good game, and should be purchased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXJ0N0K3RXx
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  So the Bourne series more brutal then the bond films more action packed then the godfather series. 
 So this series has had very successfull books more sucessful films but somewhere along the line 
 the rope was cut.
  
  The Break down
  
  Story
  
  8/10
  
  The story is very good your government assassin has failed a mission and has amnesia so now he 
 has to go find his memory and kill people along the way so very classic bourne
  
  Gameplay
  
  6/10
  
  So the gameplay is ok not too good though the cross hair is the worst 
 part because its just a dot which makes it difficult to aim while the fighting is basically the 
 same sequences relayed over and over block punch block punch block kick takedown.
  
  Graphics
  
  7/10
  
  Its hard to argue with the graphics very good backgrounds but the characters 
 seem very choppy around the edges
  
  Voice acting
  
  10/10
  
  Amazing voice acting no fault with it at all
  
  Fun
  
  4/10
  
  So you can beat people 
 up and bruises show but the game is so hollow its basically all the same take cover and shoot when 
 the bad A. I enemys pop up .
  
  Cutscenes
  
  6/10
  
  hmm well the cutscenes are good very well animated but so short theyre kind of like you know ... whatever
 
  
  Length
  
  1/10
  
  The game takes about five hours to complete ,enough said
  
  difficulty
  4/10
  
  Ok so theres one boss i need to sum this up the proffeser its like what 
 the hell the guy takes 1/5 of your health out in one punch you have a two minute time limit and 
 its almost impossible to get on offence and the rest of the game has bits where you can hardly 
 get past on any difficulty
  
  Conclusion
  
  So the bourne conspiaracy is a rental game has its moment but is nothing spectacular like the films 
 and games thanks for reading!
  
  Score
  
  +1graphics
  +4voice acting
  
  -1bad driving
  -3length
  -1 boring cutscenes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethan111111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  alright so when i was in a blockbuster and Ian, my little bro, wanted lego indiana jones but they 
 did not have it so i picked this game. Hey it was a fun demo, short but good. when we got home 
 i put it in played it for a half an hour strieght scatterd over a 2 hour area. i reminded me of 
 the first bourn except with more fighting but was really repeditive. i loved the shooting you had 
 bullets everywere. then i got to the car thing it was fun but not as good as the shooting. i played 
 even more then there was this big assassin then i killed him then a movie sequence later thats 
 it... i swear they could of gotten alot more then three hours of play in there. it was a good rental 
 but its even better if after your done with it hand it in the next day and say its broken can i 
 have a diffrent game. anyway in the actual movie part were theres no chance of button pressing 
 to get away or somthing, that had crappy graphics the cut scenes are better then the part it should 
 be more quality and theres only a little set of guns. a machine gun, shotgun, handgun (silencer) , 
 and a oozie and thats it. this game truly calls to be rented. dont get me wrong i enjoyed the game 
 i just had higher expectations of it thats all.. add me.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I have seen the bourne movies through the years (third one is the best) , and I was kind of looking 
 forward to this game, but when I played it I found it simply boring.
  I mean throughout the game you will find that the story of the game is the same as the movie, that 
 was the thing I didnt like about it.
  The upside to the game has to be the fact that the cutscenes of the game are well done to make 
 the game more realistic. While you are playing the game you will find you will come into alot of 
 fight sequences in the game, and when that constantly happens you will find that it get tiring 
 alot. The shooting mechanism in the game is a little tiring as you play because doesnt give you 
 an auto aim when playing and that can get really annoying when playing in boss fights.
  Driving in the game is also a little frustrating in the game, but you will probably get used to 
 it.
  While you are playing the MOVIE style storyline you will come across passports that you can collect 
 throughout the game, and they can unlock certain bonus content in the menu. This is an okay game 
 for anyone who likes the series, or is willing to try a new game in a while, but I thought it could 
 be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dieharder3x
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game yesterday afternoon. I didn't have high hopes for the game because I had heard 
 only mediocre things about it. And mediocre is exactly what this game is. I don't know how it got 
 an 8 from gamespot. Their idea of an 8 is that the game is "great." This game is absolutely not 
 great. I would not reccomend anyone to buy this game, and I am a huge Bourne fan! 
  
  The problem with the game is that if you Are a bourne fan you won't like it because the character 
 is Nothing like jason bourne -- except for the fact that he is a white guy who can fight very well, 
 and think on his feet. This game has Bourne shooting tons and tons of people, blowing stuff up, 
 and running away from things. People who are familiar with Bourne will know that he is supposed 
 to be a covert weapon, able to blend into any environment. He shouldn't be shooting and fighting 
 his way out of every scenario, leaving a trail of bodies behind. And while the fighting is definitely 
 cool, it's definitely underdeveloped -- there are only a few different combos to unleash on your 
 enemies and I feel like more time and focus deserved to be on the fighting. 
  
  The shooting segments of this game are pretty terrible, so hopefully no one was looking forward 
 to that aspect of the game. I basically played through the shooting parts just to get to the fighting 
 parts. As was said in the gamespot review, you will play some segments of the game over and over 
 again just to find the right spot to stand in, so as not to get shot and killed repeatedly. That 
 gets a little aggravating. 
  
  After renting the game in the middle of the day and playing it on the hardest setting from the 
 start, I was able to beat the game in well under 10 hours. The story is terribly done, too. It's 
 so disjointed that, if you haven't seen the movies, you will have no idea as to what's going on.
 
  
  The game definitely has its cool parts but it is definitely not worth 60 dollars. Once again, I 
 don't know how it got an 8 rating on gamespot. The cool fighting mechanic makes it better than 
 average but that's about it. The sounds are fantastic but then the graphics aren't impressive at 
 all. So, I'd say, those two factors just about balance each other out. I would give this game a 
 6.25 but it won't allow me.
  
  Terrible take on an awesome story.
  Poor graphics.
  Great sound.
  Cool fighting ability.
  Abysmal shooting.
  Too short.
  
  OVERALL: Rent 
 it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenghisKahn26
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 26, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Not a fan at all. Disapointing. It captured the feel of the movie, but only as a movie, the gameplay 
 itself was dull and rare. The "ciminatic" takedowns, while cool, played the game for you. I felt 
 like I was just pressing buttons to get from fight cut-scene to gunfight cut-scene. Graphics were 
 good and the ideas behind it were good (the gun play was not as bad as they say) but I was unhappy 
 with the final result. You want something cinimatic? watch the movie. You want to play a fun game? 
 play Halo or COD or something good. Not worth a buy and probably not even a rent.
  (Sorry, I just have to fill up these last lines with letters to get the minimum 800 characters. 
 I can't think of anything not negative to say about this game)
  aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaah! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diyari
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is one of the best games that I have ever played...
  the story line is more than great as it is based from the movie and it is so intresting...
  
 
  the graphics, oh my God the graphics are so cool especialy in the videos but like all the other 
 games there are some flaws in it. the charecters are well made too...
  
  the fightings are great you can use guns and you can also fight by hand, one thing that makes this 
 game so cool is the hand fighting as agent bourne uses high level techinques, and the most important 
 thing is the boss fighting it is absolutly great...
  
  but one of the bad things aqbout this game is the playing time as it is short for a cool game like 
 this but because it sticks to the movie it was supose to be short.
  
  there are alot of great soud effects while fighting, shooting, runing, even at standing still
  
 
  with all do respects I think the site and the players didnt gave/rate this game the way it diserves...
 
  and last thing I advise every one to play this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heaven_rider
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Find objects, shoot, fight, etc., etc. Too boring for the advanced player, too hard for the newcomer. 
 Fight button sequences do not work well. Graphics are definitely good, but could run smoother and 
 have more details. All regular enemies have pretty much the same face and the story-line is as 
 poor as it could be.
  Sierra could have spent more on the story-line and less on action. Puzzles are a good thing when 
 pressing buttons (and trying sequences) is just getting boring. Players normally want to challenge 
 their brains and not only their capacity of pressing right buttons with the right timing.
  The game fails miserably on delivering any brain challenge. Just more of the same. Waste of money, 
 in my opinion, unless you are 12 and is trying hard to master the art of button-pressing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_jeebo
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy had potential, but fighting and shooting mechanics that were greatly lacking 
 and a campaign so short you could have it completed before your super noodles are ready leave this 
 gaming experience one that many gamers could happily live without.
  
  With the impression of stunning combat features, I bought this game under the false pretences that 
 TBC would satisfy that craving we all get for a good, action packed game, however I found that 
 quick time events weighed this game down, and by the end made the enemies actions too predictable. 
 The take-down sequences were impressive, but it was the dull boxing match that preceded this action 
 that deducted from the anticipation of another fight.
  
  As mentioned in all other reviews as well as my own, the game barely lasts long enough for the 
 player to get into it, which is only made worse by the lack of replay value. 
  
  Its not all bad though. The 'normal' and 'hard' difficulty settings would prove a challenge for 
 most gamers, as they did myself, without getting the player too frustrated, but unless you are 
 determined to find those scattered collectable passports throughout the levels, there is little 
 incentive to play the game again on a higher difficulty level.
  
  Fans of the franchise may well enjoy the idea of playing as Jason Bourne, reguardless of the fact 
 Matt Daemon's likeness is not present, but for those who are more interested in the fact that its 
 another action game, I personally recommend you leave this one on the shelf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getthemost
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a great game. You obviously play as Jason Bourne, a highly trained assassin. 
 In this game you are searching for your identity. You fight assassins, police, army, gangsters, 
 and so on. This game is always fun. This game is known for its had-to-hand combat, but I say that 
 the funnest part is the shoot outs. You can also perform finishing moves with guns and hand-to-hand, 
 after getting one or more bars of adrenaline. While fighting, you might see finishers such as breaking 
 the guys arm, then hitting him with his weapon, or pushing the person into a electric box. You 
 can also sneak up on people when they don't know you are there, and you might break thier neck, 
 suffocate them, or other things. The only bad thing about that is that it is easy to be spotted. 
 While i'm on this subject, the bad things about this game is that there is only one car chase level, 
 boss fights can be frustrating, and that if you get really into the game, you find that you have 
 finished the game within a few days. This isn't a game that you play for weeks, this is a play 
 for a few days, then be done with it. Of course it's always fun to go back into levels and replay 
 them, but i just wish that the game was longer. In conclusion, this is a great game that is a must 
 play. It has it's flaws, but it is overall a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OisinOD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a good game. It has good graphics, good sound and good gameplay.
  The fighting is very good and the effects show on your (if your taking a beating) and your opponents 
 faces. It sometimes makes it too easy though e. g. bosses are supposed to be as strong as you and 
 be able too do take downs but they are unbelievable easy to counter.
  One of the features is the Bourne instinct which is just like someone pointing out an objective 
 and making it a lot easier to beat armored cars.
  The presentation is very good. The graphics are good and the sound is done very well.
  It is 
 however like a lot of movie based games in the fact that it is very easy and very short. 
  The car chase was good fun. Like most aspects of this game it is easy but I feel it was a good 
 part of the game. 
  It is however very repeditive and after planning through some of the flashback missions i didn't 
 want to play any more 
  In short it is a decent game to rent out but to short, to easy to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fishbrain8
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a great game that links in with the first movie in the Bourne series really 
 well. If you haven't seen the Bourne movies before it will be hard to understand the story of the 
 game but you'll enjoy it no matter what.
  
  The game has great graphics great sound and easy-to-learn controls (Y - Heavy attack, X - Light 
 attack, A - Block, B - Take down (awesome moves to finish off enemies or badly damage bosses) . There 
 are endless possibilities, from exploding gas cylinders to killing guys with fire extinguishers 
 to throwing enemies into walls to stabbing a guy in the hand with a pen (From the first movie) , 
 all of which make a great environment for gameplay.
  
  Pros: 
  -Great hand-to-hand fighting and the awesome take downs.
  -Good Gunplay (mainly because of shooting 
 takedowns)
  -Great Graphics
  -Lots of challenging boss battles
  -Good sound
  
  Cons:
  -Story is too short
  -Some parts are really hard and get frustrating
  -No Co-op
 
  -Automatically enters hand-to-hand combat when an enemy is close, making you vulnerable to ranged 
 attacks.
  -No Blood
  
  To sum it up the Bourne Conspiracy is an awesome game with great graphics, sound, gameplay and 
 a great story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is in truth the perfect rental, I infact rented this game so my view maybe 
 a little different to those who purchased the game at full price, because in respect The Bourne 
 Conspiracy is somewhat of a short game that despite having different differculty levels, a passport 
 collection feature throughtout the game and achievements on 360. There isn't a lot in here to last 
 you a long time, and thats sad, because Bourne Conspiracy is a surprisingly fun action game that 
 should have offered more. 
  
  Based around the books of Robert Ludlum, much like the films with Matt Damon you play Jason Bourne. 
 If you know the stories or of course seen the excellent film series then you know what to expect 
 from the tale it tells. In honesty you get the feeling that the game expects you to know it, in 
 such a way that if you have never seen the films or read the books then the general story will 
 leave you feeling a little lost as it can jump two steps here and there. But its the gameplay thats 
 on offer here, and its surprisingly solid and fun. The game features a strong melee component and 
 general 3rd person action as a lot of games are doing these days. You can hide behind cover, you 
 can shoot around corners.... basically everything you can do from Gears of War. Melee is a lot 
 of fun and really hard hitting, featuring takedowns which uses areas of the environment in devasting 
 ways leaving you going 'OUCH, THAT GOTTA HURT' the developers have done a good job with that, it 
 definatly feels like the films in that way. Single takedowns are possible, but when you are surrounded 
 by up to 3 enemy soliders you can do a triple takedown if you have the right amount of Adrenaline. 
 The Adrenaline is also used for shooting takedowns which require a button pressing phase that gives 
 you instant kills, these can also be multiple kills with the right amount of Adrenaline.
  
  Speaking of Button sensitive phases, the game is filled with them. Think God of War and triple 
 it, there are a hell of a lot of these and although they could get on your nerves, they usually 
 end up with some spectacular scene so its all good in the end. If you come into The Bourne Conspiracy 
 thinking its another Metal Gear Solid 4 then you'll be greatly disapointed, but if your coming 
 into the game just wanting explosive action packed action then you'll be left very happy, especially 
 if you rented it. Sadly the game does have some bugs, some textures take ages to load on characters, 
 sometimes never even loading and there arre some weird graphical glitches around but nothing to 
 serious. The Differcutly levels are solid and offer a nice difference in level, tho this isn't 
 exactly noticeable in melee combat as you can always block. It is noticeable in shooting as you 
 can easily die when under fire. One aspect of The Bourne Conspiracy that is really disapointing 
 is the lack of a multiplayer mode, as I personally think it could be a surprisingly fun mode to 
 play, with both shooting and melee components. Sadly there is no such mode, which definatly lowers 
 the overall score. Graphical its solid, but not the best out her. There are some nice graphical 
 touches but for everyone nice touch you get two burry somewhat ugly textures. Sound wise its good, 
 voice overs are good (though Matt Damon does not play Bourne, the replacement does a great job) 
 and its all solid and honestly enjoyable for both fans and action orientatated gamers who maybe 
 don't have 30+ hours to spend on a game.
  
  OVERALL:
  The Bourne Conspiracy is a great rental choice, if you purchased it then you'll be let down bigtime 
 due to its single player timelength, but the games action packed fun gameplay will still leave 
 your gaming itch happily scratched.
  
  A RENT IT CHOICE!
  
  PROS:
  - Melee and Shooting Components work well together.
  - Fans of the Books or Films will love it.
 
  - Takedowns both look great and hurt bigtime.
  - Perfect Rental Game for a free Weekend.
  
  CONS:
  - To Short.
  - No Multiplayer Mode.
  - Story can feel disjointed for folk who 
 have never read the books or seen the movies.
  - Some graphical problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlewnix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  The pace of the action was wonderful, non-stop, however the gameplay left little to be desired. 
 The fisticuffs were very basic, only having a weak and strong attack. The takedowns are sweet, 
 however they are context sensitive, so you cannot control them. The gunplay is a little weak as 
 well, but realisitic in that you can't take down a guy with one shot, and when you hit him, he 
 will fall down and then get back up or take cover. The driving sequence was extremely short as 
 well, but engaging. It was also short as well; you will feel like the game just stopped in the 
 middle. The biggest annoyance in the game was the context sensitive cutscenes. You will have to 
 be on your toes or you will die, and there are alot of them. Overall, the game was not bad, but 
 I would rent it first or wait for it to end up in the bargin bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Jason Bourne sure knows how to kick some ass. Taking the spirit from the movies, The Bourne 
 Conspiracy will make your jaw drop in amazement in all the ways that Jason can kill people. Seriously, 
 this guy makes Marvel characters fall in shame. You won't even care that its not Matt Damon. But 
 what you will care about is where all the fun went after time goes on.
  
  Some good things about the game are that the game is very cinematic and it looks great too. Also, 
 combat is pretty sweet.
  
  Yes the combat is pretty sweet, but once you have done the same thing a hundred times, it gets 
 old.
  
  Here is my final verdict. The Bourne Conspiracy is screaming to you ``WEEKEND RENTAL!!`` Its not 
 a bad game, but its not good enough to keep you playing all the way to the end.
  
  
  
  
  
  Feels like your watching an interactive B movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gripfill
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Like i said, i've not seen any of the movies, i know roughly what they're about but have never 
 had the motivation to watch them.. until now.
  
  Having waited a week to rent this (i work at Blockbusters so majority of the games i play now are 
 week long rents) my expectations were high, using Gamespot and Gamesradar, along with messageboard 
 postings on Gamefaq got me pretty pumped for this but couldn't help but feel something was going 
 to disappoint me.. So in goes the disc, fire it up.. BLOWN AWAY BY THE GRAPHICS!! I must say, the 
 videos on the forementioned sites, don't really do the game justice! The quality of the games appearance, 
 is certainly top notch, the sounds good and the controls are pretty easy to grasp aswell! 
  
  Most peoples complaints were about the "aiming" and the "repetitive fight seq's" PERSONALLY 
 i haven't had a problem with that yet and i'm currently on the 4th chapter.. its not a difficult 
 game to play and some of the fights (mainly boss) can be time consuming, but theres nothing offputting 
 or dull about it! The story is good, the actions frequent and its just an all round nice movie/book 
 conversion.
  
  As i said, having not seen the films, i couldn't tell you which film its most similar to but i'd 
 certainly reccommend this as either a strong rent or a time filling buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twentymooseman
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  first the good points of this game.
  the hand to hand combat is amazing. if you liked watching jason bourne beat the crap out of people 
 in the movies, you'll be equally entertained by the game's hand to hand combat. you get to snap 
 elbows break knees and do a ton of other stuff that is almost painful to watch. the destroyable 
 cover in the shooting parts of the game makes sure that you never become too comfortable in one 
 spot and this is the same for enemies. and while the shooting itself is nothing special, everything 
 just adds up to make an extremely fun game.
  
  now for the bad.
  while this game is extremely fun, some of the visuals such as explosions are pretty weak. the other 
 thing is that Matt Damon refused to do the voice of Jason Bourne. and while the driving level is 
 fun it starts off pretty slow. the game also seems a little bit short.
  
  overall this is a great game that's definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adams134g
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love the violence in this game. It's very fun at first but it starts to get repetitive 
 after a while. Other movie game makers could really learn from The Bourne Conspiracy. It's amazing 
 how someone actually made a good movie game. This game is full of action. When your playing as 
 Bourne you actually feel like an actor, with all the crazy moves you perform on you enemies. The 
 fighting is just like you remember in the movies, which is very brutal. It's almost like a movie 
 that you control and a lot more violence. The only problem is all the action and moves all get 
 very repititive after a while. The makers of this game seemed to focus on the hand to hand fighting 
 and didn't do much for the shooting parts. The driving is fun, except for the fact that you only 
 get to do it once. The boss fights can be very challenging. It's a revolution in movie games but 
 still not what I was hoping for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kagomesango
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I love this game the graphics are great and the action sequences are very fun to watch. I'm not 
 really into games with a lot of shooting but this game had me hooked the best part of the game 
 was the hand to hand combat It made me feel as though I was in on the action myself. I have to say 
 the only bad thing about this game is that it is entirely too short but on the other hand the replay 
 value is high for me others might not play it as much once they beat it. I couldn't wait to see 
 what was gonna happen next and I really love the cut scenes the were very nice to watch The game 
 had really left me wanting more and I hope that they make another one soon. I wish they could've 
 had Matt Damon in it but it still was a very good game it took some practice at first but I got 
 the hang of the shooting part in no time. I was kicking major butt in the hand to hand combat. 
 I really liked how the boss battles were I liked using every weapon I could to see how bourne would 
 use it to his advantage I just wish you could pick up other weapons such as crowbars and wrenches 
 and use those as well. This game is a good game to purchase if you are a big fan of the bourne 
 trilogy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homerman92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  The Boune Conspiracy is a great game following the story of amnesiac ex assassin Jasin Bourne. 
 The majority of the game involves gunplay using a small selection of weapons and hand to hand one 
 on one fighting.
  
  the game is done well. it seamlessley switches from gunplay to hand to hand and it makes you feel 
 like a tough guy. the one on one fights are done well as once one baddie is down you switch to 
 anyone else ready for a fight. these fights utilise the enviornment well for Bournes takedowns 
 which are used by pressing B after adrenaline is earned. Bourne will use objects around him for 
 these or just a simple hand to hand hit. Takedowns are also used in shooting to pinpoint somebody 
 and take them out with a simple button press.
  
  There is one huge complaint about this game. It ends so quickly. after six hours you will have 
 definitely finished this game and only hardcore collectible and achievement lovers will go back 
 for more.
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy is a great game but only for the short time that it lasts. it would have 
 made more sense to put all three films together instead of just using the Bourne Identity 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionoversusking
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Firstly how did this get a higher review then Dark Sector.
  The graphics are not as fluid or as nice looking everything seems bland and uniteresting. Far to 
 many points in the game where you think hey i wonder this does only to find its does absolutly 
 nothinng. 
  Even on assassin difficulty the only reason you ever die is becasue of the lame gun play and the 
 clunky fight sequences, playing thuis game through in the brief 5hours gameplay I noticed that 
 all of the fun parts are sucked out of the palythrough with a series of uninteresting regimented 
 button pressing which leaves you the player with a feeling of loss and probably thinking why couldnt 
 i have done that, 
  The cut scenes and story telling are also far far worse then dark sector and especially condiering 
 this is taken from a book and a movie you'd think they would have a good idea of how to direct 
 the scenes.
  All in all the game couldve been good but it probably needs another 3 years to actually figure 
 outs where theyve gone wrong. The hype has definatly got to peoples heads wheres the feeling of 
 pressure when you are stuck behind cover quickly regenerating bruises on your face which have been 
 created by a bullet to the leg.. Oh yeah dont forget that you may need to play most boss fight 
 through 2 or 3 times because your punches magically go thropugh your opponenets head whilst they 
 paste you into the ground.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhilGDUK2
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  Must admit, probably like some people out there that both love the xbox 360 & the Bourne films 
 have been waiting for this gem for some time. I wasn't dissapointing in anything bar how short 
 it seemed. Dont get me wrong i love this game, action pack throughout and the gameplay is awesome.
 
  
  To demonstrate how short it was, i managed to complete it.... 3 TIMES IN ONE DAY! 1000 points in 
 that time also.
  
  Assassin level in my opinion was also too easy. There is also a glitch in the assassin achievement 
 that i read somewhere that you can do the missions on Trainee level and then restart the mission 
 near the end on assassin to complete. That should have been looked at. 
  
  No online play ment that it wasn't something you could keep for a while. Was just a run though 
 game and take it back.
  
  Still, loved it on each run through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is an excellent action game that revolves around events prior to and during 
 The Bourne Identity. You are (obviously) Jason Bourne, assassin-turned-amnesiac. And as Jason Bourne, 
 you have an arsenal of hand-to-hand and firearm techniques at your disposal. Unfortunately, those 
 goodies come with a small price.
  
  Let's focus on the good points for now, shall we? The Bourne Conspiracy is what other movie "tie-ins" 
 wish they were. The Bourne Identity is packed with action, and you'll have your fair share plus 
 some in The Bourne Conspiracy. Dodging helicopter fire, performing bone-crunching takedowns, taking 
 on multiple enemies at once you'll enjoy every second of it. Along with the orchestrated soundtrack 
 from the movie (which includes some "remixes" from Paul Oakenfield) , you'll feel like Jason Bourne. 
 The graphics are on par with most other XBOX 360 FPS games, although I feel that the character 
 models could have been a little more crisp in game. (The cut scenes look awesome, but you lose 
 a little of that luster during actual gameplay.) The voice acting is very good, even though fans 
 of the movie will miss Matt Damon as Jason. (His likeness is missing too, unfortunately.) But once 
 you start playing, you'll get used to it.
  
  One of the best aspects to the game is the expanded storyline. While a good bit of the game are 
 events that happened in The Bourne Identity, there is some backstory that has been added as well. 
 This gives a little more insight to the events leading up to the opening scene of The Bourne Identity, 
 as well as some of Jason's missions before the Wombosi assassination attempt. The missions are 
 so unique and detailed that they're sure to be accepted to Bourne fans as canon. Another welcome 
 aspect to all of the missions is the abundance of Checkpoint saves. When Jason does get into a 
 rough spot and gets whacked, you usually won't have to replay much of the mission before the point 
 where you died. This is definitely better than having to start over from the beginning of a mission 
 each time Jason "fails".
  
  Unfortunately, with all this Bourne goodness comes some unfortunate flaws. The control scheme is 
 set up so that pretty much anyone can pick up the game and master the controls within about 10-15 
 minutes. However, 2 punch buttons (fast and heavy attack) , a block button, and a Takedown button 
 make for some very repetitive combat. Watching Jason perform a Takedown is quite cool, but some 
 Takedowns you'll see many times over. Also, the attack buttons are not as sharp in response as 
 they need to be, especially when playing at Agent or Assassin difficulties. You can push the attack 
 button, and between 1-2 seconds later, Jason will perform the move. This could be very costly if 
 you don't attack fast enough to hit your opponent before they hit you. And if you keep hitting 
 one button to get Jason to attack, you might wind up performing a combo you didn't want to do, 
 which also leaves you open to get wailed on.
  
  Gunplay is a little more solid, although your reticule is just a tiny white dot. I haven't had 
 much trouble performing headshots, but the enemies do tend to move a lot, so you have to be quick 
 about it. A lot of the time, you'll do better using your pistol than you would a shotgun or machine 
 gun. (Shotguns are just fun because you get to see your enemy get blown to the other side of the 
 room from the impact of the shot if you shoot them correctly and are close enough to them.)
  
  The driving sequence from The Bourne Identity has found its way into The Bourne Conspiracy. 
 Unfortunately, its more exciting on DVD than it is in-game. The car handles like a shopping cart 
 with all four of the wheels bent. It's a good thing the police AI is so remedial that you don't 
 need a fast or good handling car to elude them. And Marie could pipe down a bit while you're destroying 
 her Mini through the streets (and buildings) of Paris. Its not like she can come back to that car 
 ever again, right? (So sayeth Jason)
  
  Overall, I'd say The Bourne Conspiracy is a must play for anyone who likes action games. Rent it 
 first and see how you like it before purchasing it. But if you're a Bourne fan, like me, then it 
 is absolutely worth parting with some green to add this to your collection. It may be a short ride, 
 but its one hell of a ride.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is a movie tie in game. Most of storyline revolves around The Bourne Identity, with a 
 few bits from other games and some from the minds the developers. Therefore, in my mind and many 
 other gamers, it is a movie tie-in.
  
  It is the first ever movie tie-in which is actually classified as good. Harry Potter nearly got 
 it right, although still featured the problems occuring in most tie-in games, however the developers 
 have really thought this game through, which is good. They have made a movie tie-in with a new 
 name, a new characters and above all, the best movie tie-in game ever.
  
  The graphics, first, are not as complex as games like GTA IV, and BioShock, however, compared to 
 The Golden Compass and Crash Time, rather good. There are nasty cardboard enviroments at places, 
 and slightly less high definition characters, except not too last generation.
  
  The soundtrack is action thrilling. It has been designed with action in mind, the soundtrack picks 
 the beat up during big fights and chases, and slows down during sniping mission and calmer, less 
 hectic zones. It is all very co-ordinated so nothing feels out of place.
  
  The speech is kind of clear, except quite hard to distinguish between characters. Also, the sometimes 
 speak a little too loud at places which they should be very quiet, eg in the second mission where 
 he is meant to sneak into the ship, he speaks at the top of his voice. It sometimes just does not 
 fit in.
  
  The game, however, can be completed in 5 hours of Trainee level diffculty. However, the level of 
 diffuculty is quite hard even on the most easiest. There will always be really easy bits, followed 
 by hard and easy, followed by really easy and then two minutes of death traps. It gets really annoying, 
 but surprisingly, and this is the potentional flaw in the design of the game, the higher the diffuculty 
 the level, the slightly easier it gets on very hard chases. Thats right, it gets easier. They have 
 worked so hard making it hard, they actually forgot that the higher the level, the harder it should 
 be. Thats the one problem in the game which could impact playing time.
  
  The controls are very nicely laid out, without any problems to complain about (for once) . There 
 are places where you control how the player reacts, through driving and shooting, and then there 
 are Fahrenheit style sequences which involve pressing a variety of buttons, X Y B A in some sequence. 
 On a note of Fahrenheit, the whole game has been made with cinematic filming implanted in the works, 
 making it feel like you are controlling action of the real movie. Its just a shame its spoilt with 
 annoying passports to collect during high octane chases.
  
  The driving sequence through Paris in a Mini Cooper in remarkably boring. Just like most car promotion 
 games, the controls are slightly dead, the graphics and sound get from good to bad to worse, and 
 the action feels dead. The only excitment comes by the fact you have a half naked women sitting 
 next to you, unconvincly telling you directions. Perfect scene for men.
  
  Although this game hasn't got a target audience. I don't feel the feeling of succession in this 
 game. I feel some sort of lacklustre over the game. GTA IV has been designed for 14-26 year olds, 
 with others taking a backseat with it if so enclined. This game feels like a 16+ however, unlike 
 other games, doesn't show its knowledge of SoAP. And thats a shame. A real shame.
  
  Overall the developers have a very good vision of what the games about, and have managed to come 
 up with a rather surprising outcome. This is the first time in a long time I actually felt inclined 
 to go out and get a movie tie-in game, and when i moved away from RB and GTA IV in vein, i was 
 pleased that the result was superb. Not fantastic, just superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeller
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is a good game. Not Great. While playing it you can see the potential for greatness, 
 but it never really gets there.
  
  Unlike many other movie games this one actually does a great job of tying in the storyline of the 
 Bourne movies into one solid game. 
  
  Graphics are what you would expect from a nexgen system. Combat cut scenes can at first get your 
 adrenaline pumping, and your mind racing at the thoughts of what future levels could put forth. 
 That adrenaline comes crashing down though when you realize all they do is show you more of the 
 same over and over again. Combat reminded me a lot of Assassins creed. Where as you keep doing 
 the same combo over and over again until you attain victory.
  
  Levels are pretty linear in design and one play through should suffice unless you want to play 
 through the game a few more times for the increase in gamerscore. But don't expect a different 
 experience the second time through, as enemies will be exactly where they were the first time you 
 played.
  
  I've heard other people say the shooting is somewhat broken. I can only speak for myself , and 
 I had NO problems with the gunplay. I could take out most of my targets with head shots without 
 fail.
  
  The driving seemed almost too easy. It felt as if the levels dedicated to the driving aspect of 
 the game were less on par with the rest of the game and more of a "mini game". 
  
  This game is a GREAT cure for the frustration that can be found in NINJA GAIDEN II, as it can make 
 you feel like an invincible gaming badass. 
  
  Buyer beware, this game is not for everyone to PURCHASE, but it is a definite great RENTAL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomRoy08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Bourne Conspiracy Review
  
  
  
  A good first attempt to make a good movie game for High Moon Studios. A solid rental.
  
  
 
  You play as Jason Bourne in the past, present, and current times. You play as him through a total 
 of 9 missions, each taking between 20 minutes to an hour. 
  
  Graphics: The cinematic graphics are little more than average. The in-game graphics are crap. The 
 graphics have about as much detail as the original x-box. The characters that you fight against 
 are the same height, width and gender. Each level has basically one or two different character 
 models. When you punch the crap out of a clone, it looks good. For instance, you do a basic 3 punch 
 combo. The eyes of the enemy combatant swell and bleed. The showing of damage doesn't go any farther 
 than that, though. The graphics are overall not the top-notch Army of Two graphics we've all come 
 to know and love, but hey: graphics rarely are the difference between a hit and a miss.
  
  Sound: The sound is some of the best I have heard. There are more highs than lows. The lows are: 
 1. the one-liners of the enemy personnel are overly repetitive. By the second hour of gameplay, 
 you'll even hear an obvious announcement repeated twice in a row, seconds apart, giving us all 
 reminders of the last generation of gaming. The highs: The soundtrack is nearly perfect. A mix 
 of new music was made especially for this game, along with music from the movie: to remind us gently 
 that we are playing a MOVIE GAME. 
  
  Gameplay: There is hand to hand combat, driving, and shooting to mix it all up. First the Hand 
 to hand combat. There's really no depth in hand to hand combat. There are two attack buttons, a 
 block button and a takedown button. The attack buttons are X and Y on the Xbox 360. On the PS3, 
 I am taking an educated guess that the attack buttons on the PS3 are square and triangle. Either 
 way, the combat is the same. The two attack buttons are fast punch (X) and strong punch (Y) . These 
 two button combinations combine up to a three hit combo with 8 combinations. All of these combinations 
 are basically 3 punches. You can hold down either Y or X to kick, though you won't get many opportunities 
 to do so, what with the latest boss fight hammering down on you. The blocking feels kind of strange. 
 You jam on this magic button and you are invincible to melee attacks, but not to bullets. The takedown 
 button will eventually become your best friend. This button is the reason for even looking at this 
 game. Land a few punches, and your adrenaline meter will fill up. Fill it one-third full, and take 
 down one enemy. Fill it another third, take down two. Completely fill it, and you are in for a 
 treat. Bourne quickly dispatches them in a quick, stylish way. The takedowns usually involve smashing 
 someone against something, then punching them and finishing them off. A takedown in the open is 
 a stupid takedown in the open. One of the few animations not involving anything except flesh and 
 bone is basically a few punches and throwing them down to the ground. The takedown is killer on 
 henchmen, not boss fights. The boss fights are basically a fight with a different character model 
 with an unrealistic amount of health. They also have plenty of moves that I felt like Bourne should 
 be able to do, such as a three hit combo made of kicks. On to driving. The driving is atrocious. 
 It is disgusting. Who ever heard of a car doing 80 mph and turning around on a highway? If the 
 car crashes into another car, yours going 80 and theirs going ten, who's going to win? In the Bourne 
 conspiracy, the one doing 10! In real life, the 80 would win! The Cops that are supposed to be 
 chasing you give up after about 5 seconds. That isn't realistic. Shooting. The shooting is fine. 
 It's not good, but it's not bad either. There are some cheap moments to be had in the shooting 
 part of the game. Sometimes you will be standing in front of a turned over desk, press the cover 
 button and nothing happens, while you get shot and die. You also have to be looking at the cover 
 to stick to it which isn't fair. The aiming sensitivity is fine. Sometimes you will run past an 
 enemy to get to cover, and be sucked into close combat.
  
  Story: If you haven't seen the first movie, you're missing out. The game's story needs you to watch 
 the movie to find out what the heck is going on. There's not much extra you need to know to know 
 the story. The flashback missions are only there to add some meat to the game's bones. The game 
 should take you between 3 and 7 hours to finish the single player experience, which is the only 
 experience. That's right. No multilayer. 
  
  Pros+
  +Takedowns are fun
  + Hand to hand combat is exhilarating
  + Short and Sweet
  
  Cons -- 
  --Little story
  
 --graphics are less than satisfactory
  --terrible driving
  
  Question?
  ? Who would leave passports lying around in hard to find places?
  
  What would make it better 
 _+_=good
  Longer game: including supremacy and ultimatum
  Better driving
  Open world gameplay
  Better graphics 
  Deeper combat system
  
  Rent or Buy?
  Rent
  
 
  Game Review by Phantom08 
  Gamertag: Phantom
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarRockerGuy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is the game made after the movie The Bourne Conspiracy, but it contains small 
 parts of other movies in the series as well. Now, that right there might turn people away. However, 
 The Bourne Conspiracy game completely reinvents the rules on games based on movies in a killer 
 way.
  
  Storyline:
  The storyline of this game is great, but sometimes hard to follow if you didn't see the movies. 
 It helps if you saw the movies; you will find it easier to locate climatic objects, predict events, 
 and predict character actions. STORYLINE: 7/10
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game have many highs and few lows. Your enemies look much the same per level, 
 facially. I cannot think of many other graphical lows. The good is the hand to hand fights. Your 
 character and the enemy both show their injuries as the individual attacks hit. For example, if 
 you get punched in the eye, the area around that eye will get bloody and swollen.
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  
  Environment
  (I added this part of the review because more games are getting 
 better at a responsive environment.) The environment in The Bourne Conspiracy is ultra realistic. 
 If you are taking cover and a person shoots into a bush near you, leaves will fly off. When you 
 take cover behind weak items such as the side of a pylon of a wooden box, the bullets from your 
 enemies can shatter through and hit you (and visa-versa) . Objects can be shattered and show extreme 
 realism otherwise. ENVIRONMENT: 10/10
  
  Sound
  Great. Everything responds with rich detail. Also, passports (if all are collected extras are unlocked) 
 make a distinctive sound in the environment when you get near them, which is helpful. Quality of 
 sound is great. SOUND: 9/10 
  
  Gameplay/Controls
  Controls are very easy to learn. When fighting, for example, there are only two buttons you can 
 use X for light attack and Y for heavy attack. Combining these two buttons can be done in sets 
 of one-three at a time. The key is to have the timing right. Gameplay is ultra-realistic and fun, 
 but sometimes fights are tedious. In this game, you have an adrenaline meter, which builds up after 
 close calls, good shots, or devastating combos. Your adrenaline can rise three levels, but only 
 one is needed to initiate a single takedown. A takedown will kill an enemy, but will only do damage 
 on a boss. Running takedowns, silent takedowns, gun takedowns; all add to the exitement of a great 
 game. GAMEPLAY/CONTROLS: 9.5/10 
  
  Overall
  A great action-adventure assassin game. This game entirely rewrites the rules of movie based games 
 with pizzaz. OVERALL: 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jett26
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Incredible game, graphics are outstanding, fighting is fun, cool moves without having a 20 button 
 combo to do it.
  But unfortunately, this is WAY too short. The game combines the 1st movie with his career as an 
 assassin before the movies. And you can easily beat the game in under 7 hours.
  It's really really fun, don't get me wrong, but with no multiplayer, and a mere 10 levels I believe. 
 Rent it first, you'll easily be able to beat it in that time.
  But yeah some of the best graphics I've seen yet, driving is unrealistic but fun none the less, 
 and the gunplay is not too shabby. Takes a little too many bullets if you're not going for the 
 head but it's nothing major.
  Anyways, if they would've made this game longer I'd easily give it a 9/10 but it's over far too 
 quickly.
  Final score, 7.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  The Bourne
  
  This game is loaded wit lots of fast paced action. You will play as Jason Bourne and go through 
 several missions. The missions are a mixture of gun shooting hand to hand combat with some button 
 pressing action sequences. The fights are fun with lots of cool takedowns where you slam opponents 
 into all sorts of objects. You can block with a while x and y are used for punching/kick combos. 
 The gunplay isn't the greatest due to a poor aiming setup. However it doesn't ruin the game it 
 just makes it more challenging. The game does a solid job of making the experience as Jason Bourne 
 fun and entertaining. It stays somewhat true to the story. I would recommend this game as a rental 
 though due to the fact that you can beat in about 6 hours. 
  
  Good
  Hand to hand is fun
  Lots of action
  
  Bad 
  Aiming is a bit outdated
  Too short 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The bourne conspiracy is a very unique fighting game but when it comes to anything else it just 
 lacks intrest. missions are long but the game is short. it has up to 3 to 3 and a half hours of 
 game and it lacks replay value. The fighting system consist of two buttons y and x and then when 
 you perfom a certain amount of combo's you will get the takedown move which is a fight cinamatic 
 that is beautiful and grusom at the same time. But that seems to be the only good aspect of the 
 game because everything else is all the same from shooting and driving its all happend before. 
 This game tie's into the first movie beatuifuly. Acheivments are alright in this game except for 
 collecting all the passports because some of them are in the worst spots and it will make you very 
 frustrated. The game is very repettitive and feels very scripted like you can do something only 
 one way and you have to figure that out. Cover suxs in this game because no matter where it is 
 you always get shot but when you stand out in the open you have better chance of living. The games 
 difficulties are awful it goes from walkthrough to omg i hate this game. And after all that you 
 go through you will be dissapointed in the end and will not play the game after that so this game 
 is alright could be better but at least that leaves room for improvement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irilthor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  the game started great, but gets a little bit repetive when you're a few hours in, never the less... 
 when i beat someone up bad it still puts a smile on my face now and then ;)
  
  this game has: gun shooting / melee combat / button sequence cinematic stuff 
  
  lets go over 
 the gun shooting:
  its not as bad as they say, the guys all wear kevlar vests as you can see.. so they dont die that 
 easily, tho if u got a bit of skills you will have no problem shooting only headshots.. like i'm 
 doing, its np really.
  
  melee combat:
  this works out great.. you have different combo's , tho the combo's are only for making the battles 
 look cool i think, u can just repeat the same combo over and over , only thing that matters is 
 blocking on time and pressing the right buttons at the button sequences.
  
  Button sequences:
  this isnt very exciting, its basically you're being shot at or something and 
 u have to press buttons to escape, its a nice relaxation from all the crazy action in this game 
 tho, sometimes ur being chased like a full 15 minutes ;)
  
  also.. there's the level with the mini cooper, wich was awesome, it was a spectacular long chase, 
 with bullet-time for manouvering through traffic jams etc. you're racing through traffic, chased 
 by police, through buildings, tunnels etc. its crazy, better than most games wich try to add a 
 car race in the game, but fail at making it drivable and fun etc.
  
  all in all this is a good game and the first level you'll have a smile on your face because of 
 all the action thats going on and cool cinematic parts throughout the game.
  
  this game is not anoying as all as i read in some other review, just wanted to make that clear, 
 you just need to aim a bit yourself and aim for the head, instead of using the auto aim (wich puts 
 ur crosshair at their torso)
  
  one thing tho, if u saw the movie, you'll recognize all parts in the game, tho in the game u get 
 flashbacks in the form of playable levels and you have to play through missions when he was still 
 working for treadstone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vangaurdius
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off with the graphics. The graphics are not horrid, but they are not that great either. 
 The characters themselves look cool but the same faces keep reappearing over and over again, that's 
 understandable in a game like Halo where there are large numbers of baddies to kill and you are 
 not getting up close and personal, but in a game like this killing what appears to be armies of 
 clones is not acceptable. The characters look good other than that. My main gripe is that if you 
 have seen all the movies they should have gone with Damon but instead they chose someone else which 
 was a stupid idea. The environment looks alright but is nothing that will make you stop for a second 
 to look at it, they make it look better by using lighting which was a good idea. The guns are annoyingly 
 hideous and there is almost no variety. The flow of the attacks is well done and it makes it look 
 like you are doing damage, but it doesn't feel like it at all.
  
  The sound is pretty good but not memorable. The guns don't sound right though, there is something 
 about them that makes them annoying. The voice acting while it is has good quality, it is really 
 repetitive. The same phrases are uttered over and over again and there are very few different voices 
 making people sound like clones. The grunting and yelling are good fitting well with he current 
 situation. The bones getting broken was pathetic though. It does not sound like your breaking bones, 
 it sounds like someone got a bunch of crackers, put them in a noisy plastic bag and crushed them, 
 it doesn't sound nice, it is just really annoying and makes me want to turn the volume off to get 
 rid of it. The music is quite unnoticeable when you are playing and doesn't have the feel that 
 other games achieved. Though they did use music from the movies it needs to be more intense and 
 have more variety, and when the action breaks they need to calm things down because it sounds sloppy 
 otherwise.
  
  The gameplay is where this game fell flat on its face. The driving was absolutely awful. I have 
 seen arcadey driving in games before but this is ridiculous. It did not feel at all like your were 
 driving a car and the way the cops were organized was not realistic at all. When you hit vehicles 
 it just pisses you off, normally it would be amusing but because it is so awful the crashes just 
 seem to be annoying. When you hit objects in your car it does not look nor feel like you did anything 
 besides stop moving. Basically, the driving section was pure garbage. Next gunplay. When you are 
 firing your gun it does not feel like you are firing a gun, it feels more like you are firing pellets 
 or paint balls at your enemy, not doing any damage. You have to put an entire clip of ammunition 
 into your enemies chest to drop him or a single pullet to the face. I guess they decided to give 
 the enemies bullet proof suits that can withstand a blast from a shotgun as long as you are not 
 poking them in the chest with it. The aiming is trash, it is a pain in the ass to kill someone 
 because it is quite finicky. The adrenaline mode is painfully agitating because you will want to 
 shoot the guy your crosshair is on but instead you shoot someone through a wall that was using 
 a pistol. The cover mechanic is good and it makes you take cover behind what you intended it to. 
 The hand-to-hand combat the first few times is fun, but after that it is simply repetitive button 
 mashing. There are only 4 combos that you can perform, plus the 2 different kicks which is pathetic 
 coming from a game that should be focusing on hand-to-hand combat. the attacks don't even make 
 it feel like you are doing any damage at all. The finishers you get are good when you first see 
 them but their are very few animations, and they are all repeated, but with a different object 
 in the location where you smashing your opponent against. Same applies when there is no object 
 with which you can smash your opponent into. When you perform a combo you cannot string together 
 more and more combos so that your enemy is dominated, instead the enemy instantly attacks right 
 after you finish and instead of performing another attack Bourne just stands there and stares at 
 them like an idiot. It is very noticeable in boss fights such as when you smash the boss into a 
 railing instead of beating the guy into a bloody mass of crushed human Bourne stares at them as 
 if he expects that looking at them will cause them to suddenly die. The blocking is cool but it 
 just doesn't work or feel right. Its fine if you block basic attacks but you need to make it so 
 that the enemy can break through your defense and you can break through theirs making the combat 
 more tactical. To sum it up, the gameplay sucks.
  
  The story is there but it is not something you will remember. If you have not seen the movies than 
 you may find yourself being rather confused, and even without having seen them or having read the 
 book it feels disjointed and not present. Not much to say about the story other than it is there 
 but it is crappy.
  
  To sum it up. It could have been great, but wasn't. The gameplay was bland and repetitive without 
 effort put into it. The sound was lousy and annoying at times, and not noticeable at other times. 
 The story was boring. If you are a fan of the Bourne series give it a rent for a little bit of 
 fun at first, but even then I would never recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  the bourne conspiracy is a pretty good game. it has good combat and the boss battles are great. 
 however the gun play is weak. aiming is a chore and is not fun. better gun play would have made 
 it a really good game. hopefully the next bourne game will be better.
  i give 6 out of 10 for the game play. the game play is pretty good. 8 out of 10 for the graphics. 
 great graphics. jason bourne looks great and so does everything else. 8 out of 10 for the sound. 
 the voice acting is great, the music is fitting, and the sound effects are sharp. 4 out of 10 for 
 the value and replay value. this game is way too short and once you play this game you won't want 
 to play it a second time through. 8 out of 10 for the tilt. the controlls are great, as it is quite 
 easy to controll jason bourne in this game. so overall i give this pretty good game a 6.5 out of 
 10. this is a rental and not a game worth buying, as it is way to short and has no replay value. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batmanboy11
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  This is the game I have been waiting for since the Bourne Identity came out several years ago. 
 This game is a great first Bourne game and when they make a Supremacy game they should have perfected 
 it. Sometimes this game is just to much like the movie, but I guess that is okay. This fighting 
 system is the best I have seen that isn't in a fight night or Def Jam game. It goes seamlessly 
 from shooting to combat. The shooting system is also great. The game really shines in it's hand-to-hand 
 missions, though. Now to get Bourne's fighting style right there are take-downs. These range from 
 braking an arm to shooting someone in the head. The game is too short. I beat it on two different 
 difficulty setting is about ten hours. Finding all of the games passports took longer so there 
 is your replay value, but I got every 360 achievement in the game (except Treadstone Assassin) . 
 Really they could have added more to the game. If they were to just do movie sequences the game 
 would be an hour. The missions that are really good are the flashbacks. This game is great for 
 either a Bourne fan or a xbox 360 owner. 
  8.0 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubaloth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I was excited when I heard about the game! I'm a pretty big Bourn fan! I played through the demo 
 and even considered buying the game! I'm sure glad I didn't buy this game. The idea of the game 
 is pretty good overall. The game is pretty action packed like the movie is. You do end up going 
 through a lot of flash back missions. But these seem kind of out of place and really no reason 
 for them. There are plenty of cut scenes, which provide plenty of action! About half way through 
 the game I did get a little bored with the same old punching again and again. After playing this 
 for 3 days I was through it! It took me a total of maybe 8 hours, I was on the easy setting! But 
 over all the first time through it was a good start for a bourne game and worth the rental! Then 
 I decided to play through the game again! The more I played the game the more things bugged me! 
 First you fight different guys through out the game. For some reason you see the health of the 
 bigger guys, and even some of the smaller guys, but you don't see the health of the middle guys. 
 Next the gun play is pretty weak! For all of us that spend all the time playing Call of Duty we 
 like the idea of at least zooming in to fire the gun. That isn't in this game at all. You are moving 
 your small aimer at guys heads. You do get use to it (its more like a mouse pointer moving around) 
 but I think this could have been a lot better. I think they would have had a better idea if they 
 just did all 3 movies, instead of trying to fit all these flash backs into this game! The flash 
 backs serve no reason and they feel miss placed! And last, the cut scenes! Some aren't bad! But 
 the ones that keep coming as your fighting get really annoying over time! Right when you are getting 
 in a rethum, some cut scene comes up and just bugs me! I wouldn't mind them if it was one or two 
 for a fight! But it becomes 10-15! It was a good game the first time through! But this has no lasting 
 replay value, no multiplayer! I would still rent it! But you well finish it in a couple of days! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensei_hEnRY
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  fighting as Jason Bourne, from the early story when Bourne is still a 30 million dollar secret 
 government weapon to the most wanted fugitive chased by the CIA.
  
  the game tells the story in a good way. Unfortunately, it doesn't follow the whole trilogy Bourne 
 story. the graphics are great, from the Zurich International airport to the street of Paris, the 
 game sure looks fantastic, thank's to the powerful Unreal Engine. 
  
  The gameplay of the game is really fun. On top of it is the fighting part. Play as really rough 
 Bourne, he sure can beat the bad guy really hard! We can use environment all around us as a weapon 
 when we perform takedown moves. But before that we must fill Bourne's adrenaline gauge with light 
 and heavy attack combos. The fighting mechanism is simple (X - Light attack, Y - Heavy Attack, 
 A - Block, and B - Takedown) so it sure gives us lots of fun to break the bad guy's hand and leg 
 then punch him to the pile! The AI can fight really good, so we must use timing for each attack 
 to launch counter attack. Of course Bourne can shoot too, but it's a shame that Bourne can't do 
 blind fire (Niko Belic isn't a 30 million secret government agent but he can shoot without looking 
 to lure the enemy) and the enemy armor sure very great, it takes lots of ammo to shoot through 
 the vest.
  
  One thing that really sucks, when tou get caught very close to an enemy, Bourne will enter fighting 
 mode, so Bourne will be vunerable to other enemy in a long range with an assault rifle to shoot 
 him! It is also look stupid that Bourne choose to fight than shoot the bad guy although he got 
 a shotgun on his hand.
  
  But despite all that funny things, the game still fun to play and worth your money. And for my 
 last word, it supposed to be an M-rated game, why High Moon Studio made it as a teen game!? it 
 will be fun to see the bad guy's blood splattered all over the floors and the walls as Bourne hit 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLEEBS
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  This game is a mess.
  
  I want to first address the hand to hand combat. I think it stinks. Punching a guy over and over 
 and over again to finally "take him down" is lame. Jason Bourne would be much more efficient in 
 taking down an enemy. Admittedly, he got pretty beat up in the movies, but he always seemed in 
 control. The constant enemy takedowns during fights totally hicupped the fighting experience for 
 me. I would just about land a solid blow (that would only take the merest sliver of health away 
 from the enemy) and then be interrupted by a context sensitive enemy takedown. After successfully 
 fending off the attack, the enemy loses no health and Jason gets no adrenaline boost. I just kicked 
 the enemy in the face and he loses no health?!? What is up with that? Admittedly, if this was possible, 
 some players would just wait for these moments and deplete an enemy's health without actually fighting. 
 And that would of course feel too easy, but I feel you should get SOMETHING for it. On the other 
 hand, takedown moves were satisfying to watch.
  
  This game does not make you feel like Jason Bourne. Bourne would never kill 200 enemies just to 
 reach his objective. What happened to sneaking around? This game is totally in your face "I am 
 going to kill everything that moves" combat. Not at all what I would expect from an assassin.
 
  
  Enemies are dumb. The things that they would say over and over again were silly. "He's getting 
 past us!" when you were surrounded by four enemies and kill one while standing still makes no sense. 
 Or, "The American is getting past us!" when no one even knows who Jason Bourne is let alone what 
 his nationality is. Whoever wrote that nonsense needs a new job.
  
  Some of the achievements are so annoying to get. I don't know why you would want to play this game 
 again to get 200 shooting takedowns, because I can't imagine anyone getting them the first time 
 through. Frustrating.
  
  I was hoping this game was going to be a lot better than it ended up being. I wanted to finish 
 it, but I could not wait until the game was over. I can't really complain about it being too short, 
 because I thought the game was stupid. I am really glad I did not buy it, and I don't wish that 
 waste of money on anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynasty3patriot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a cool action game. Fans of the books, movies, and action in general will 
 enjoy this game. It excells on many levels but it gets held back with some naging issuses. First 
 off, the gameplay is split into two different ways. Fighting is a very unique system. You have 
 to attcks, quick and heavy. The game wants you to string these attacks into combos, but most of 
 the time, you will be mashing the buttons to take enemies down. After a few landed punches a meter 
 called the adreniline meter will fill up. When it fills up you can perform a takedown. These are 
 very cool cinamatic sequences where you literaly takedown your opponent. The second half of the 
 gameplay is shooting. The shooting aspect of the game dose not come through as well as fighting. 
 You have your basic weapons, pistols, shotguns, and rifles. For the most part these weapons work 
 well. Shooting also has takedowns, but they are not as fun as fighting takedowns. Overall, the 
 gameplay is really fun and satisfying.
  
  The single player campain mode is the central mode of the game. The strory itself is very compeling 
 with good cut scenes and really nice voice acting. You will want to play through the missions to 
 see what happens in the story. The missions in the story mode are simple like clearing out enemies 
 and boss battles. There is also a car chase sequence that works sort of well. The campain mode 
 is very short however. It will only take you about 5 hous to complete. Even though the campin is 
 compeling and satisfying, you be left wanting more.
  
  Graphics in this game are very good. They are really nice to look at. Its not the best looking 
 360 title on the market but its still polished well. Physiscs are good. Enemies will die like they 
 should and the enviorntment also is done well. But the game does have enemy player modles that 
 look exactly alike. The graphics could have been better, but they are still really nice.
  
  Now, this game isnt perfect. The game does have some flaws. Sometimes when you are shooting an 
 enemy it will take a few shots to take him down. This shouldnt have to happen especially when you 
 have a shot gun and it takes 4 shells to kill a guy. Also during gameplay sometimes, you will have 
 one of the buttons pop up on screen and you will have to tap them. These will come out of nowhere 
 and sometimes it costs you a mission. The camera will also sometimes get in the way when you are 
 fighting. Borne has some flaws, but they dont bring down the entire game.
  
  To sum it up, Bourne Conspiracy is a good game. New and unique fighting sytems have been introduced 
 into this game. Shooting isnt that bad either, and overall it is a nice looking game. I would not 
 recommend buying this game. The campain is just to short to justify a full price purchace. This 
 a great game for the weekend. If you are looking for a good action game, The Bourne Conspiracy 
 is a great choice. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjbass
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The title being what it is, The Bourne Conspiracy is a good game.
  
  Like many of the reviews the hand to hand combat is excellent. Playing on trainee level it feels 
 like button mashing, but at higher levels you really need to pay attention to your blocking and 
 combos, and change them up frequently. The hand to hand really makes you think.
  
  The bad side is the gun combat, it is shaky at best, the only real way to take down an enemy is 
 a head shot, otherwise be prepared to use at least a clip on every enemy, with or without body 
 armor. The linear levels get boring also and should leave you with options on different paths. 
 Also there are some bugs that can really become frustrating like getting stuck in the environment 
 and not being able to get to certain enemies for hand to hand (like the elevator) .
  
  All in all it is a fun game, while there are great innovations, there is quite a bit of improvement 
 to be made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giyanks22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I first heard about this game around Christmas time when I was watching the Bourne Ultimatum on 
 DVD. They had a trailer for it in the Ultimatum. I was always complaining that there wasn't a game 
 about Jason Bourne. Well I got my wish, and it is a pretty good answer to my prayers.
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy has some incredible cinematic scenes, with graphics that are the best i have 
 seen in a game I have played (I haven't played Metal Gear 4 Solid, so don't yell at me) . The games 
 regular 3D engine is very good, but not great the faces are a little rough looking (Conklin's) .
 
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy takes you through major action sequences in the Bourne Identity, and also 
 lets you play as Bourne when he was an Assassin. The Campaign is just to short for me. I finished 
 it in less than five hours, but I replayed it on harder difficulties. The missions are long, but 
 there aren't very many, and it isn't like the missions are super long like Halo. 
  
  The hand to hand action is absolutely insane. Everything in the envirorment becomes your weapon. 
 Bourne uses kitchen sinks, pens, books, tables, pools, chairs, and pretty much any other object 
 you can think of. The action is extremely simple, with just two buttons for basic attacks, and 
 one button for take downs. This action never gets boring, and can be very tedious in boss fights. 
 
  
  The third person shooting action is a lot of fun, but isn't groundbreaking or anything. The gun 
 sound effects are excellent and rival those of CoD4 MW. I loved using the silenced pistol. The 
 shooting is somewhat realistic even on easy difficulties people don't die with one or two shots 
 to a vest, if you want one shot one kill then you need to hit in the head. 
  
  My biggest problem with the Bourne Conspiracy was that there is no multiplayer for it. I was really 
 bummed when I walked into Gamestop, and I didn't see an Xbox live logo on the cover. 
  
  Overall the Bourne Conspiracy is an excellent game with stellar graphics, realistic sound effects, 
 incredible hand to hand fighting, decent third person shooting, a very short campaign, and NO MULTI 
 PLAYER . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is yes, a movie game title from Robert Ludlum's novels and Bourne movies, 
 so instantly your question would be how does it stack up? It is another flop like most other movie 
 game titles? The answer is a thankfully defiantly not, on the contrary it's a exceedingly well 
 made game that follows it's story and action from movie/novel to game brilliantly, the only knockback 
 is it's over once you really get into it.
  
  If you haven't watched the movies or read the novels, that's okay, since the story is told reasonably 
 well to follow what is exactly is going on throughout. You are Jason Bourne, a special agent created 
 to take down any enemies in your path, however there is more to know as you uncover hidden secrets 
 from your past, to find out who you really are, and how you got to where you are now. If you seen 
 or read the movies or novels, you'll know most of everything within the game.
  
  Graphically you can pretty much tell it's not the most technical game ever made, however it's still 
 up to par thanks to the unreal engine 3 in use. The character models are nicely detailed with great 
 expressions particularly when you punch a guard in the face, watching their face in slow motion 
 is just awesome. The animation and combat movements can be a bit jerky here and there, however 
 nothing terrible to interrupt your gaming experience. The level designs can be a hit and miss depending 
 on each level, but the environments and backdrops are nicely detailed with nice rendered and real 
 time cutscenes throughout each area.
  
  The gameplay at it's core has a few different elements with each having their good, however the 
 hand to hand combat is easily the most fun. When you approach a enemy close up, you engage in hand 
 to hand combat where with two types of punches, fast and hard you can beat them down in your path. 
 When you damage your enemy, you gain instinct points which Bourne can use once a meter is filled 
 to pull a devastating takedown move, either using his own hands and feet, or using the surrounding 
 environment. 
  
  The other element of course is the shooting. It's handles in third-person perspective with a aim, 
 and by using Bourne's instinct ability, he can lock onto enemies and visually highlight them to 
 know where they are. You can also use Bourne's instinct points here to take down enemies in one 
 shot, which can defiantly come in handy in tough spots.
  
  Lastly the cinematic time based, button press element is used at specific points during the action 
 ride. When an event is about to occur, a button is shown what to press at the bottom of the screen 
 to trigger, usually giving you a good second or two before it's too late. It's used mostly in key 
 events in levels, for example when escaping the embassy you see the gate closing ahead which you 
 must push a button when it's time to slide underneath, or you'll be captured. Many games use this 
 element these days, some used well and others tiresome, however it feels just right and appropriate 
 in this game, not overdoing or uselessly placing it, but exactly well to accompany that action 
 thrill ride that has your heart racing especially at climatic moments.
  
  The characters voiceovers are excellent. Bourne sounds distinctly correct in his tone and suits 
 well for each line he expresses. Most of the other characters are alike the same, although nothing 
 is too outstanding, the best being Bourne himself. The soundtrack is excellent with the exact themes 
 and tracks suited to each part of the time, whether it's from a atmospheric chase, to slow and 
 stealthy, it really does add to the intense action towards the game.
  
  You will probably complete the game within five hours, and once you're finished there isn't a whole 
 lot of replay value to come back towards, although there are a few things. Luckily if you own the 
 Xbox360 version the achievements will keep you going to earn each one, and by collecting every 
 passport in each level, you can unlock music tracks, replay boss battles and view art gallery's 
 from the making of the game. No online unfortunately.
  
  If your a fan of the novels or movies and tinkering of whether it's transition to a video game 
 has paid off, it's one of few that actually has, and done pretty well. The only drawback is you'll 
 be done with this game pretty quickly, with it's short length and lack of features. It's defiantly 
 worthwhile to rent if your a fan, and also if your into cinematic action games, however paying 
 full price wouldn't be advisable, unless your a die hard fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  its a solid action game, no doubt about it. for those who were inspired from the breath holding 
 stunts in bourne series especially bourne ultimatum, this is one hell of an exceptional action 
 game. why exceptional?.. well.. very well choreographed hand combat with excellent use of environments. 
 due to varying environments the sequences appear great although actually its evident to be repetitive.. the 
 boss battles to a large extent are the same way just for the difference in appearance of the bosses.. just 
 for these matters the game feels very repeated but still its enjoyable, thanks to the great visuals 
 and locations and fast pace. the gun combat is much interesting as the environments are destructible 
 and there is a lot of cover n shoot gameplay in good locales. graphics are impressive, sound is 
 impressive, the bourne instinct isnt much useful, a handful of combos is too little to make the 
 hand combat interesting... hmm.. wee, in short a great game and a good buy for a lot of greatness 
 in the game but a let down as you progress through the game, little annoying due to repetition.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * Hand to hand combat is fun, nice to look at.
  * Follows the movies well and adds some from the books too.
  * Cool cinematics, good use of quick 
 time events.
  
  Cons
  
  * As the game follows the movies somewhat, having Bourne not be Matt Damon is kind of off putting.
 
  * Vehicle sections feel like you're driving on ice.
  * Whilst improved from the demo, the shooting sections are still pretty weak.
  * Had a bug a 
 couple of times that froze the game.
  
  
  
  The hand-to-hand combat is easily the best thing about the game.
  So much so that when you're 
 forced to endure a driving section or a lengthy bout of gun play you just wish it were all over 
 so you can go back to punching dudes.
  
  
  
  The graphics are attractive, especially in the cinematics.
  In the cinematics quick time events 
 are well used.
  I know a lot of people are tired of QTE's, but I quite like them myself and this game makes good 
 use of them and it uses them quite a lot.
  Graphics and I guess audio wise the only thing that really bugs me about the game is that Matt 
 Damon doesn't reprise his role as Jason Bourne.
  Doesn't hurt the game too much and if I read correctly he looks more like he's described in the 
 books, but being so heavily exposed to the movies makes the non-damon bourne seem.. Odd, I guess.
 
  
  
  The shooting, whilst improved from the demo is still pretty weak and you'd probably prefer to just 
 charge in and take them out by hand when possible, unfortunately that can result in a severe case 
 of death.
  
  Driving still sucks. It's like driving on ice.
  Not really a lot to it.
  
  If you want more Bourne it couldn't hurt to give it a play through regardless.
  The beat 
 em up action is decent enough to justify at least a rental but it probably won't have much in the 
 way of long term appeal, you'll forget it real soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onuruca
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 14, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Conspiracy is a very solid 3rd person action-adventure game developed 
 by High Moon Studios and published by Sierra.
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy wasn't a game that i was looking forward too. As i looked at few screens 
 i was like 'i guess it will be a cheap, bad game'. But after i watched the trailers i was sure that 
 it will be an ok game and i bought it.
  
  The storyline is a little bit weak, most of the things will not end also the game ending was not 
 clear too, well lets keep our hopes for a second Bourne game. Bourne's graphics are powered by Unreal 
 Engine 3 and it's better than i expected, also the detail on the levels are awesome, and the cutscenes 
 are mostly cinematic-real time rendered.
  
  The fighting system, one of the best thing in the game works pretty well. It is pretty simple. The 
 combos by using enviroment is very nice. You can do a lot of things by filling up your adrenaline.
 
  
  And the shooting system.. sadly the worst thing in the game. You are forced to walk with only aiming 
 with a gun. So you need to press LB for a few seconds to get your gun when you see an enemy and 
 it gets kind of annoying. Cover system is very simple and sometimes may not work as well as enemy 
 AI is acting stupid sometimes but these won't affect the fun you get while playing Bourne Consipiracy.
 
  
  Your Bourne experience will end up in 5-6 hours on Agency difficulty. I really wish it was longer 
 but well there are 11 levels, one of it is just a boss fight, one of it is driving which takes 10 
 minutes, there you go you have only 9 levels.
  
  If you believe yourself that you can repeat it a lot of times, beat the achievements it would worth 
 a purchase but if throw games when you finish games and as Bourne doesn't have co-op or multiplayer 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknyarth
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 13, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  The graphics were gorgeous, the game was interesting at first but the Dragon's Lair style QT play 
 that's become popular makes the game stagger. The battles are fast and the take downs look furious 
 but I think that watching the movie would probably be a more pleasurable experience. The gun battles 
 are terrible with enemies requiring far too many rounds to kill (even the ones that are wearing 
 suits don't die quickly) .
  
  This last point seems to be a Sierra thing. Timeshift and Fear were a bit like that too. Bourne 
 seems to rely too much on the cinematic experience to be an entirely fun 'game'. The boss battles 
 are a bit too long to be entertaining and just end up being your wrist's endurance for holding 
 block and initiating attacks between the counter take downs.
  
  Overall, I had fun with Bourne for the first few levels but they quickly started to get less and 
 less entertaining. With guys spilling down stairs at you like termites and all the QT action that 
 pretty much ruined Spider Man 3 for me, this game could have been so much better and yet... with 
 a short time to beat it and an overall experience that left me more tired than satisfied, I do 
 not feel this was a good 60 dollar value. 29.99 maybe... 60... no. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tandem_Toad
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I'll just be blunt. The graphics lack luster. The fighting and gunplay mechanics are junk. The 
 action sequences and gameplay model so many sub-par games that ride on the hype of movie tie-ins, 
 which is what the developer said they were not going to do. Apparantly, they wanted to dive deeper 
 into the books. However, the scenematic sequences and gameplay work as if they wanted the game 
 to look like an interactive movie in its own right, which isn't bad if the mechanics are good. 
 The developers really focused on the hand-to-hand combat. It's a shame they failed at it. The fighting 
 is extremely repetitive and sloppy. The only other comments that should be made is about the action 
 sequences. Why is Bourne fighting armored vehicles? Jason Bourne is stealthy, smart, quick, and 
 tactical. Open gunplay battles in public settings and shooting down armored vehicles should be 
 reserved for games like GTA IV, not The Bourne Conspiracy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAG23
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  The Bourne game is here and it's The Bourne Conspiracy. Before i played the game, I thought the 
 whole game was based on the jason bourne film. It actually wasn't because some of the missions 
 were flashbacks of what happened before that day he got shot in the back and lost his memory. In 
 the missions, u had to assassinate certain people. It was a pretty fun game. I loved the hand-to-hand 
 combat including the sweet takedowns. It was more fun than just shooting people with your firearms. 
 Anyway, there still were a few problems in the game. The camera kept on shaking all around the 
 place when i was fighting a boss or just a person. I couldn't see where my opponent was and that 
 just turned into a problem. I loved the boss battles especially Castel and that one prisoner guy. 
 I thought it was just a blast. Don't worry, you won't find anything frustrating in this game. Just 
 go through like it's a movie if you're playing it on the easiest difficulty. I wish the game was 
 longer though. I wish they added more levels into the game because you can just go through the 
 game in about 7-8 hours and that's not that much. The camera sucks and there are lots of glitches. 
 There is no multiplayer in the game and i think that was failure of the game. It would've been 
 more fun if there was multiplayer but i guess the guys didn't have enough time and they just wanted 
 to release the game fast. There weren't that much weapons to choose from. There was only a pistol, 
 assault rifle, shotgun, and sub-machine gun. That's pretty much all. So if i had a chance, i mostly 
 just chose to do the brutal takedowns and it's just fun to watch. Also, look for a driving sequence 
 where u have get chased by the cops in your mini-cooper while driving like crazy around Paris and 
 i thought that was one of the funnest levels in the game. Although, some of the levels were based 
 on the first bourne film. I just hope the next bourne game isn't going to be based on any of the 
 movies or books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Before I begin, I'd like to clarify how I am basing my review. I have made sure to complete the 
 game to bring you the most accurate review, and help you decide whether or not to buy this game. 
 If you like this review, please approve it and check out my other ones. If you like and and/or 
 didn't like it, you can send a message my way on comments, feedback, and/or things I should improve 
 in the future.
  
  My review will be split. I will begin with the Pros and Cons, followed by Gameplay, Graphics/Sound, 
 Value, and an Achievement Junkie section (for those who love gamerscore) . And lastly, if you are 
 on the fence about this game and have read this review, there is also a demo on the marketplace 
 you can try out. To be honest, if you love how The Bourne Conspiracy movies were directed and the 
 "feel" it had, you will most definitely love this game. It's just a shame that it is only 5 or 
 6 hours.
  
  Pros
  -You feel like Jason Bourne, really captures the movie's feel.
  -Slick hand-to-hand combat.
  -Graphics are well-done, and character skins are detailed.
  
 
  Cons
  -Short game, 6 hours long.
  -Too much shooting, I liked the fisticuffs combat better.
  -The story is confusing if you have 
 not seen the movies.
  
  Gameplay: So the gameplay is varied and fun. At one point you will be in hand-to-hand combat. You 
 can chain attacks by pressing X and Y (or hold either to perform a kick) , X being a light attack 
 and Y being a heavy. You can block by holding A, and if your gauge fills enough you can perform 
 Takedowns (more on Takedowns later) . Shooting is also pretty simple. You can shoot, reload, and 
 do Shooting Takedowns. These 2 types of combat are the meat of the game. When I said Takedown I 
 meant a literal takedown. Bourne has a gauge, split into 3. For instance if you are fighting a 
 normal enemy and have 1 part of the gauge filled up, you can then press B and Bourne will decimate 
 them with the environment or his body. For multiple opponents you may allow it to fill up to 2, 
 or 3, and as you can see you will take down 2 or 3 nearby enemies with one Takedown. Shooting takedowns 
 work the same, you press it when part of the gauge is filled and Bourne kills them with a precise 
 shot.
  
  The game is fairly linear in its pathing, which is somewhat of a shame. The Bourne character leaves 
 a lot of creativity open, in how he deals with situations. There are 11 levels you will play through, 
 each level usually has a tough enemy (stronger than a normal one) , or a boss (same concept) . These 
 usually act out in hand-to-hand combat. Throughout these levels, though, you will kill enemies, 
 shut down security, and so on (basic stuff here) . As you can see it is a fairly straight-forward 
 game.
  
  Graphics/Sound: The graphics are great. The character models are very nice, especially Bourne, 
 I just wonder why they didn't try to recreate Damon and the cast. As you beat up characters, or 
 get beat up, character models react by getting a bloody face or black eyes, and such. The sound 
 is equally impressive. The soundtrack works great with the game.
  
  Value: The game would be worth $60 if it wasn't so short. To be honest, I loved the game like I 
 loved the movies, but clocking in at 6 hours with questionable replayability just left me wondering. 
 I didn't buy the game myself, but it's just long enough to make a great rental. Wait for the price 
 to drop if you really want to snag this. It's just a shame, they didn't really hype up the game 
 and it feels like it will be severely underrated.
  
  Achievement Junkies: Couple hundred gamerscore the first time through, the difficulty achievements 
 are stackable which is nice. Easy 1,000 in a rental, nothing particular difficult except beating 
 it on the Assassin difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamaster32
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is much better than the splinter cells the combo is amazng, sound effects, I realy love 
 the boss battles. THe bad thing is thoe the gun thing is alittle off the shooting accuarcy but 
 most of all its a fair game its not that hard much fun in driving missions etc the game is post 
 to be one of the films the bourne conspiracy with jason and he finds himself officers getting him 
 anyways the story is much proven. The weapons are pretty good but when you get your gun out you 
 cant put it back if you want to run this game is a must buy and worth a wait intill some other 
 popular games come out. AGain this is a must buy and the combo is great the weapons the storyline 
 great sound effects and based off the films i havent seen yet but it is a must buy game. Overalll 
 the graphics is really improved like the game is inside the movie 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vietnamgamer
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  Okay, so I beat this game in a day, it was fairly easy on Agent (medium) and wasn't too challenging 
 on assassin (hard) . It wasn't exactly what I expected, it wasn't as stealthy as I thought, and it 
 really didn't have any puzzles or things you had to figure out as fast as possible (like the movies) . 
 Overall it was mainly a hand-to-hand combat game with animated takedowns, big bossfights, a single 
 car chase, and of course a chick. 
  The fighting was simple, just rapicly tapping X and Y until your meter (or tiers as they called 
 it) would fill up and allow you to perform a takedown by pressing B, every now and then there would 
 be a button-pushing cinematic (actually just about every cinematic) which was actually, I'll admit 
 it, fun and entertaining with the sniper parts and the explosion scene. Graphics were great, I 
 definately enjoyed the bruised face and bleeding eyes, nose, and mouth when fist fighting, BUT 
 it dissappeared over time (why can't they make a game where if you get bloody, you have to wash 
 it off in water... i. e. GoW, you chainsaw aliens with your mouth open! you should be bloody, and 
 you should have AIDs) . Besides that, the storyline was quite short and not too challenging, the 
 only part I found challenging was the stair cases and the mission that starts out with the assassination 
 of that dude and all the russians. The shooting controlls arent so great, and the guns are quite 
 limited to like two shotguns, a pistol, and two submachine guns... I think there's an AK-47 in there 
 and another assault rifle in the airport. Anyways, like the review deck said.... its not very stealthy, 
 theres alot of the button pushing cinematics, and lots of boss fights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent chase scenes, fun context sensitive sections, gruesome and satisfying combat, 
 superb audio and visuals, no Matt Damon
  
  The Bad: You have to have watched the movie or read the book to know what's really going on, combat 
 and shooting oversimplified, only one driving section, super short
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy is based off of the hit book and movie by author Robert Ludlum. I have good 
 news for people who haven't watched or read the book or movie; you didn't have to too enjoy this. 
 The game is about a trained assassin by the government who tries to find his true identity and 
 runs into, and has to kill, the people in his way. While the plot is a bit confusing the voice 
 acting is superb and the game uses the Unreal engine (Gears of War) and the game just looks and 
 sounds amazing. While Matt Damon is missing as the lead role he won't be missed since the new character 
 is better and more likable. The takes is really reminiscent of Indigo Prophecy with the game being 
 full of context sensitive cut scenes. While there's essentially no mini-games there are three parts 
 to the game: Fighting, shooting, and driving. The fighting is what you'll be doing a lot and it's 
 just gruesomely satisfying. You have heavy attack and light attack and you can use these in a 3 
 combo attack. You can charge either one for a light or powerful kick as well. You can block and 
 strafe around the opponent. When you get your adrenaline bar up (there are three segments you can 
 charge by connecting hits) you can perform a takedown which is a brutal and deadly scene of using 
 the environment or breaking some limbs and smashing heads into walls. While all of this sounds 
 simple, it is, but it's really satisfying and doesn't really get old. You also have bosses at the 
 end of every level that have a health meter, and I can report the AI in this game is really awesome. 
 During the shooting sections you can take cover, hold up to two weapons (a handgun and another 
 weapon) perform shooting takedowns (up to three depending on how full your adrenaline bar is) . 
 You also have a cool run button that makes the camera shake while you run through halls so it really 
 feels like your playing a movie. While your shooting sections are pretty generic and nothing special 
 they work and thanks to the game's length you won't feel bored of this. There is one driving section 
 in the game and the car handles superbly and it's just full of intense chasing. While the game 
 is full of so much action it doesn't last long clocking in at about 5-6 hours. There is no multiplayer 
 what-so-ever and the extras are a bit lame. If you're looking for an awesome action rental then 
 look no further than The Bourne Conspiracy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raikoh_
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Ever want to know what it's like to live life like Jason Bourne? Well now you can with The Bourne 
 Conspiracy, a new action adventure game, developed by High Moon Studios.
  
  The game is based off the first Bourne movie, The Bourne Identity. The game starts with Bourne floating 
 in the ocean, dreaming about his most recent mission that went haywire. It takes Identities script 
 and re-writes it to deliver a new Bourne experience. You'll see a lot of scenes from Identity, 
 but most of the time you'll be playing Bourne's past missions as he remembers them throughout the 
 game.
  
  Hand-to-hand combat is where this game excels. You string together combos in hopes of landing crippling 
 blows and gaining adrenaline to use various take-downs. Bourne will also use the environment around 
 him to do some brutal take-downs on bosses and enemies. Take downs give Bourne more health and 
 they can be a godsend when fighting certain bosses. The shooting mechanics are wonky and take some 
 getting used to. One thing that bothered me at first is the way Bourne puts his gun away to fight 
 enemies up close. At times this can be a potential issue if there multiple enemies using guns, 
 because they will still be able to shoot at Bourne. This puts more pressure on the player to take 
 out the enemy faster. Once the fight is finished Bourne will quickly whip out his weapon and resume 
 the firefight. The enemies seem to lose their sight when Bourne is in a fist fight also because 
 the ones shooting at you couldn't hit the broad side of a barn if they were standing right in front 
 of it. The game suffers from hit detection issues and the driving level is simply horrid. There 
 isn't a large variety of guns but it really isn't an issue when you get the aiming system down 
 and start delivering easy head shots. Passports leave you looking in every nook and cranny in every 
 level, hunting them down. And the quick time events keep you on your toes during cut scenes. The 
 game is also very short.
  
  The graphics are about average but they still deliver that cinematic experience. The sound however, 
 does not deliver that experience.
  
  To be honest the game is good and fun. However, the game is short making it only worth a rental. 
 There's not enough replay value to warrant a $60 price tag. It something that will occupy your 
 time on a rainy day but that's it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pee_07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  This game made me feel like I'm watching the movie while I spent time with it. The game 's difficult 
 level is not too tough to beat and the story line is superb. If you feel tired with the big form 
 games please try Bourne and you'll feel fresh again. I bought this game together with Gaiden 2 
 but at the end I spent more time w/ Bourne more than Gaiden because of the game is plain fun and 
 you don't have to worry about where to go next as long as you have the Bourne instinct. The action 
 one on one is quite spectacular due to the Bourne adrenaline you can see the stun action seen IF 
 you press the button in the right time also with the action scene for the head shot. Don't be hesitate 
 to try this game especially if you are the big fan of Bourne movie. I just think I might take out 
 the Bourne identity movie and watch it again after I finish this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanctinus
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  This is a Great game it has beautiful visuals great A. I and awesome combo moves just like Jason 
 Bourne would actually do. The boss battles are fun and the shooting is decent. There is one good 
 driving part but like i said there is only one. The only down fall to this game is that its really 
 short i bought it yesterday and beat it by today i played a maximum of 5 hours and the ending was'nt 
 very sufficient I was dissapointed cause the ending you would think would have like an awesome 
 combo move the kind of thing that you wouldnt see until the end of the game but it was just like 
 every other boss battle. I did have fun playing the game i just wish that it was longer i feel 
 they could have done so much more. If you are a jason bourne fan then i would recommend renting 
 this cause all tho it is fun its to short to actually buy unfortunatly i did buy it. once you go 
 through it once that is pretty much it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidspunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a game where you play as Jason Bourne from the movies. This game is based 
 on The Bourne Identity from 1991. This game has really good boss fights and really good fighting 
 overall. The fighting controls are quite simple but it feels immensely satisfying to punch a guy 
 hard in the face. After a few good hits your adrenaline builds up and you get to perform a takedown. 
 Takedowns are really fun to perform because you have so many different things to do. For instance, 
 you get to take their head and slam it against the table or a wall. It may not sound like much 
 but when you try it, it looks so awesome. 
  
  The shooting is nothing special. Nothing different from most other games. All that's different 
 is a shooting takedown which is just a matter of pressing the right button in a certain amount 
 of seconds to get an enemy down fast. 
  
  Something special you have is bourne instinct where special objects or other things light up that 
 can be used as a weapon or to find the next door that leads where you're supposed to go. 
  
  There is one short chase scene that you have to drive a mini down the streets of Paris avoiding 
 cops and trying to find a safe place. If you were to just play the demo the driving would suck 
 but in the real game the driving is better. Not much better but it is fun while it lasts. 
  
  In each level there are hidden passports that you try to collect to unlock in the extras menu. 
 It kind of sucks that you have to collect every passport in the level to unlock boss fights because 
 boss fights are probably the highlight of the game and you don't want to redo a whole level just 
 to get a boss fight. 
  
  The biggest problem with the game is that it's short. Real short. 
  
  Overall The Bourne Conspiracy 
 is a great game that I can recommend to anyone that likes an action fighting game. If you want 
 to find a long lasting game then I suggest you look elsewhere. Aside from it's shortness this game 
 is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Having played the demo on both, the XBOX-360 and PS3, I have come to a conclusion: XBOX-360 game 
 looks quite a lot better and has a lot better framerate. It seems that the PS3 version is rendered 
 at a lower resolution, with "muddier" textures.
  
  Anyway, back to the game. After reading some reviews, I wasn't sure whether I should buy it or 
 not. I have decided to play safe and rented it from Blockbuster.
  
  The game itself if very interesting, and I enjoyed playing it very much. Game mechanics are a bit 
 archaic, with changing the way controls feel and work depending on the situation. For example, 
 when you hold a gun, you can't move fast (except if you sprint, but then you can't get back to 
 shooting quickly) , and button pushing minigames popping up here and there. Even some sniping missions 
 are made so that you don't have control of the rifle and instead have to push the buttons popping 
 up on the screen in a timely fashion. 
  
  Sometimes it gets really frustrating that you have to either take a gun away in order to be able 
 to move a bit faster, or sprint - either way it will take awhile for you to get back to shooting. 
 On one occasion all controls are taken away from you and you have to patiently wait for a bad guy 
 to toss an exploding barrel towards you, at which point the controls are given back to you and 
 you can run away.
  
  Other than that, and the fact that the game is rather short (I have finished it in under 5 hours) , 
 I still enjoyed the game. The story, nice graphics (in 360 version) , nice music, all kept me wanting 
 to play more to see what happens next. All in all, it felt more like I was watching a movie, rather 
 than playing a game. I think it would even be quite interesting for others to just sit and watch 
 you playing, since the game feels and looks like a movie.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: geeko316
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and simple. The Bourne Conspiracy is not a bad game, but it by no means is 
 good either. Its shooting mechanics and fighting are pretty simple but also highly entertaining. 
 I found myself just running around wanting to fight people and do nothing else. The game is filled 
 with QTE (quick time events) for the more action packed moments, while i felt those were some of 
 the most entertaining parts of the game they break up the game too much. I felt that I wanted total 
 control over those part and not watch those cool things happening. Everything was much to straight 
 forward. The diving part was fast and pretty cool but it was also broken up with more QTE. I like 
 QTE but not as much as they have in this game, plus you fail if you mess them up. Graphics are 
 reasonable  Its not incredibly detailed but its not a total slouch in the graphics department. 
 Animations are pretty nice. Overall this game gets a 7.0.
  Rent it, return it, and forget it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kooleman8
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Is grate that sush a game like this go out in the mercand, I really Like the movies and I never 
 imagine that some day will exist this game... Hawever there are some thing that make the game a 
 litle repetetive...
  
  THE HISTORY: You start as a Jason Bourne in all the game, but you notice that the model of all 
 the character are diferent than the movies. The Story begin in a mission before the lost memory 
 of Jason, so you can discovery the rason and the conspiracy to who and how you will be in amnecia... 
 Some Missions and bosses in the game are dedicate of Bourne Identidy, and some satisfine scenes 
 of it are incluidin in the game (for my oppinion is very very cool) ...
  
  The Gameplay: Moust part of the game you gonna figth, shoot, and takedown all the enemies that 
 you will encounter, the mechanic figth is awesome, you have two bottons "X" and "Y" (Low and Heavy 
 attacs) that you can combine with combos each other, when you punch a lot, you aument a level of 
 adrenaline that can use for the takedowns, practical the best thing of the game are the takedowns, 
 and if you buy the game, you gonna see why xD, still, this combat mode is very repetitive in the 
 game, you dont lear more combos, you only gonna see a litle but new takedowns in the bosses fight, 
 still, the fights are very real and respond very well.
  
  In the game you will see Gun figths too, and they are very consistent too, but with the time you 
 gonna be tired... And well also are minnor scenes of Driving (Like the driving scene in Bourne 
 Identidy in the tiny red car?... Oh yes that part in the game is the same hehe) .
  
  The Visual: The Enviroments and the graphics in general of all the character are well, some enemies 
 has the same faces but is a minnor bad thing, Bourne is a litle too thin, but the outfits of the 
 movie scenes are the same, so the bosses too, all the rooms and the sites are very well created.
 
  
  So In general this is a Movie action game that gonna impress you a lot, but if you hate the repetitive 
 thing I dont recomended to you, still, if you are a fanatick and you Scream when you seeing the 
 Bourne movies, you gonna love this game very very well... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: japops
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7.5
  The story follows most of the first movie, with flashback missions leading up to the part where 
 the sailors find Jason in the ocean. The fighting, which is probably the most fun part of the game, 
 is brutal and satisfying. There are all sorts of takedowns, like breaking someone's knee or slamming 
 there head againts a desk. The boss fights are pretty nice, and each boss has there own unique 
 fighting style. There are also several QTE events, like those seen in Shenmue, that are actually 
 kind of fun. The shooting is okay, but definitely not the best I've ever seen. It takes way to 
 many shots to kill someone, so you pretty much have to go for a headshot each time. The bad thing 
 is, shooting takes up most of the missions. As you get into the game, it starts to get a little 
 repetitive with all the shooting. There's one driving mission, in which you have to escape from 
 the police in Paris, which is kind of long and not that great. It could've been good, but it just 
 got a little frustrating. 
  
  Graphics: 8
  The character models look nice, and there are some really smooth animations, especially in the 
 fighting sequences. The cutscenes look great, too.
  
  Sound: 8.5
  Some really nice fighting sound effects are in the game, and the voiceovers are alright, even though 
 Jason doesn't sound anything like Matt Damon. The shooting sounds a little bland, though. 
  
  Value: 6.5
  The game is definitely too short, at 5 to 6 hours for me (on Easy, lol) . There 
 are a few things you can do, like go back and get achievements and look for "passports" (or whatever 
 they're called) to unlock extra content, but most people won't want to play it through a second 
 time. I would rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimReaper797
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I gave this game a 7.5, and there are a few reasons. First with the flaws. If you hated 
 that "hit the buttons... NOW" style of gameplay from Indigo Prophecy, you may get annoyed at the 
 cutscenes which implement this style. It is not nearly as overdone as Indigo Prophecy though, which 
 is a plus. The gunplay is a bit tedious and boring, with little variety to it. The biggest flaw 
 though is the shortness of the game. I put about 6-8 hours into the game at best before beating 
 the story on agent difficulty (medium) . Unfortunately, there isn't too much else to do aside from 
 the campaign. This also isn't a game I could see myself playing more than twice around. This is 
 a game which you play once because after multiple times the fast paced action slows down some. 
 The cutscenes become repetitive toward the end, but the game ends before you get too bored with 
 it. 
  
  The game really shines with the fighting sequences. They are as exciting as they are simplistic. 
 This time though, simplisitic doesn't bring the quality down. The take downs are fun and entertaining 
 to watch. The boss fights are great fun since you can perform multiple takedowns in the environment. 
 The soundtrack is also very well done, keeping the pace up.
  
  Overall, the gunplay needed work, the campaign needed to be very much longer, but the fight sequences 
 and soundtrack save the game and make it worth renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EkulNosbocaj8
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  When I played the demo of this game, I was blown away by every aspect of it. The combat was very 
 fun and the takedowns were insane. As soon as the game came out I bought it and haven't been able 
 to stop since. The graphics are very visually pleasing and the style of the game matches that of 
 the movie in how it is very fast-paced and full of action. The only thing sub-par about this game 
 is the gunfighting. I mean, it's not horrible by any means, but it isn't as good as it could be. 
 The hand-to-hand combat is by far the highlight of the game. It is simple and easy to learn, as 
 the fighting is based around both the x and y buttons. This may make you think that it woul turn 
 into a button masher, but there's a real strategy into getting near objects that you can use to 
 takedown your opponent. Overall, this game is one of the best out there, so buy it immediately. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 6, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy an action game that for the most part is based on the first film, the Bourne 
 Identity. No reference to the other two films is made and this fact is the main reason for the 
 game's biggest shortcoming - it's length. 
  
  The gameplay itself is solid if unremarkable. There's fisticuffs and gunplay in equal parts and 
 both are fun but limited. The takedown maneuvers add a lot of flair to the action but aren't particularly 
 satisfying from a gameplay standpoint as all you have to do is press a button to perform them. 
 But somehow the game is quite compelling and the reason the length is such an issue is simply because 
 you want more. I'd say that skilled players might take six to eight hours to complete the game 
 and I'm being quite generous with those numbers.
  
  In closing, the Bourne Conspiracy isn't a very good value but is definitely worth a rental or a 
 "on-the-cheap" purchase. It's kind of like a popcorn action flick, where you don't have to think 
 too much but still have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lpillon3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  This game isn't by far the best I've played, but the fight scenes are great as the environment 
 can become part of it, but then again can become repetitive. They did a pretty good job trying 
 to give you that Bourne feeling with the last second decision making while coming across certain 
 obstacles and if you don't make the decision quick enough you fail the mission. Sprinting becomes 
 difficult when the camera angles have to be completely controlled by you, so you end up swinging 
 the camera around just to keep enemies in the view. When fighting if you try to get away you're 
 stuck in hand to hand combat and you can't really get out of it. Ducking behind boxes and other 
 things tends to get old as well as it seems that's all you do to jump out of harms way. The group 
 combos are a nice touch though. The graphics are "ok" as they don't push the 360 to it's limit. 
 I'd recommend renting it first, as it lacks that potential to be a game to play over and over again. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madd_hatter
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely a great game if you want a good action game...
  
  You play a guy named Jason Bourne who is basically trying to figure out who he is. So he beats 
 the hell out of everybody! Yeah, I made the story short, didn't wanna ruin it for ya! Anyway, for 
 the most part it follows The Bourne Series fairly well, while inserting a ton of originality. This 
 game reminds me of that old-school Die Hard Arcade Game me and my uncle used to play... good times.
 
  
  Getting back to the game. the graphics are well done! It was better than what I had expected. Usually 
 when games are modeled after a movie series, it tends to suck. I have to say, that this is very 
 impressive.
  
  You are able to pull off a lot of combos that make this game real fun! TIP: Use your environment! 
 One thing that I didn't enjoy is a little bit of lag here and there, but nothing major. Maybe it 
 was just me. I didn't like the whole driving aspect as well. I feel as though this game should 
 have introduced some more weapons, as well as being longer. The combos get a bit repetitive after 
 you start doing them enough, but it's still fun to watch.
  
  With all of that being said, you are missing out on a great game if you decide to pass this up. 
 This will not collect dust on your shelf. the replay value probably isn't all that good, you'll 
 probably get bored with it after a couple sittings. I hope they make a sequel that's a bit longer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nster81
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Players get a Huge amount of cinematic action in Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Conspiracy, as Jason 
 Bourne, a man who has forgotten his past, and his past coming alive with him as a fully-functional, 
 working Treadstone assassin. You'll be a killing machine with an arsenal of weaponry, a fully-furnished, 
 destructable, beautiful looking environment, and, of course, your fists. Gun play works very well. 
 It's structured and very "well-organized," in my opinion, and fills the need for shooting action. 
 The environment poses a threat to your enemies, as Bourne will use it in several ways to take his 
 enemies down in hand-to-hand combat. The hand-to-hand is very fun, since you beat the living daylights 
 out of someone, and finish them with a bruising takedown. Bourne will use anything in his reach 
 to brutally smash someone into. Their is also Bourne's famous driving sequences. They to, are a 
 great asset to an already great game. The freestyle driving is also cinematic and gripping, making 
 for a fun ride through the destructable streets. The game is a decent campaign and depth is added 
 with hidden passports throughout the rather large environments, providing unlockables to entice 
 you to find them. The achievements are also fairly accessible and achieved through a few play-throughs 
 of the levels. All and all, one of the best espionage and straight-up action games for players' 
 next-gen hardware. Fans of Bourne, even casual gamers, will definitely be appreciative of this 
 game!
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics/Game Design: 10/10
  Story: 10/10
  Voice Acting/Characters: 10/10
  Replay Value: 10/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics are good, the environment is usable and destructible. Superb animation, nothing amazing 
 here but nothing terrible. 
  Sound-
  Decent voice overs, decent music that gets you in the mood, the guns sound right, again nothing 
 that I'm crazy about here.
  Gameplay-
  Like playing through an action movie! you fight, run, shoot, drive, etc. Everything works pretty 
 smoothly although the driving parts of this game really did not have to be there. With such a variety 
 of mechanics, they all suprisingly work pretty fluidly. 
  Story- 
  People complained about the story, but like the new Indiana Jones Movie, who cares, its a heckalot 
 of fun and on top of that the story isnt terrible, its just decent. 
  Overall- 
  Its an all around superb expierence, and one of the best movies games! This game isnt getting as 
 much attention as it deserves. What it supplies is an expierence that delivers on all feats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomeoTwoZero
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy (Xbox 360) Review
  Based on the novels and blockbuster movie trilogy of the same name, The Bourne Conspiracy puts 
 players in control of Jason Bourne; the greatest thing to happen to the espionage genre since James 
 Bond. With all the source material available from both the Robert Ludlum novels as well as the 
 popular Matt Damon movies, The Bourne Conspiracy certainly has a lot of things going for it. Unfortunately, 
 overly simple and shallow game mechanics, repetitive and linear levels and almost non-existent 
 storytelling bring down what amounts to a passable action game. 
  
  The Bourne conspiracy is based almost entirely on the storyline of the movie trilogy, as opposed 
 to the novel. It starts off some time before the events of The Bourne Identity, elaborating the 
 events preceding the failed assassination that would eventually lead to Jason Bourne floating at 
 sea with retrograde-amnesia. An over the shoulder action game, The Bourne Conspiracy is based on 
 two gameplay elements; hand to hand combat and cover based shooting. 
  
  Hand to hand combat is the first gameplay element that players are introduced to. Once engaged 
 by an enemy, the camera switches to an almost 'fight night' kind of angle. There is a quick attack 
 and a strong attack and combinations of both elicit a quick combo. Normal attacks then help to 
 charge an "adrenaline" meter. Once enough adrenaline has been accumulated the B button activates 
 a "takedown"; a flashy, brutal and one hit kill move that emulates the Kali/Escrima fighting style 
 made popular by Matt Damon in the Bourne trilogy. The takedowns are stunning to watch and have 
 several varieties depending on objects and obstacles around you during the fight. This is especially 
 evident with the boss fights, where books, pens, screwdrivers and all manner of plate glass act 
 as weapons.
  
  As fun to watch as the takedowns are, the fighting system is way too dependent on it. The two button 
 fighting system is severely limited and the two or three non-takedown combos get old fast. Not 
 to mention most enemies and especially bosses take forever to defeat in normal hand to hand without 
 performing a takedown. Most fights end up into a button mash to accumulate enough adrenaline, to 
 which a single button press then ends the fight. The fighting system in Bourne Conspiracy had a 
 lot of potential and it's a shame it's marred by repetition and overly simplified and unnecessary 
 hand holding. It just isn't as satisfying to mash buttons to fill up a meter and then one button 
 kill your enemy as it would have been if you would have had to earn than flashy takedown with at 
 the very least a simple button combo.
  
  When not knocking foes through tables and the sort, the rest of the game is a straightforward cover 
 shooter. Bourne is able to move to cover and then pop out to open fire. The mechanics are simple 
 and work fairly well. It's nothing new, but it gets the job done. Though it's not as intuitive 
 or as effective as cover systems in games such as Gears of War, Ghost Recon AW or even R6 Vegas, 
 it's doable. As with the fighting system, racking up enough adrenaline allows the player to pull 
 off a "shooting takedown" that insta-kills a target. These aren't as flashy as the hand to hand 
 takedown but are quite helpful when severely outnumbered. Unfortunately you don't get to choose 
 which enemy the shooting takedown is performed on, so while you might have wanted to insta-kill 
 the sniper atop a roof plinking your life away, you might just takedown the grunt with a pistol 
 who was barely threat. 
  
  Graphically, Bourne Conspiracy is passable, but certainly nothing to be too excited about. The 
 player, enemies, environment and effects are just good enough to constitute a next-gen game, but 
 don't expect to be graphically wowed by anything in The Bourne Conspiracy. Perhaps the most visually 
 outstanding part of Bourne Conspiracy is in its animation, particularly during the hand to hand 
 combat. As mentioned, takedowns look amazing sometimes, and the animation used for it is very well 
 done. 
  
  Despite the source material, the Bourne Conspiracy is severely lacking in its storytelling. Players 
 who have never seen the Bourne movies will be immediately lost in translation. The scant number 
 of cut scenes is barely understandable for anyone who hasn't seen the movie and barely gives an 
 excuse as to why the player is in a particular place and why he has to kill all these people. For 
 many of us who have seen the movies this won't pose a problem as the cut scenes are modeled almost 
 exactly after scenes from the movie, but those entering the world of Jason Bourne be warned; you 
 won't understand what exactly is going on.
  
  As an action game, the Bourne Conspiracy is not bad. A good blend of hand to hand fighting and 
 cover based shooting give it just enough merit on its own. Unfortunately for a game that advertises 
 itself as "putting the player in control of Jason Bourne" its woefully inadequate. To put it simply, 
 the Bourne Conspiracy doesn't follow the flow of its source material at all. Espionage is almost 
 entirely forgotten in The Bourne Conspiracy, stealth is barely incorporated and in the end Jason 
 Bourne becomes blunt instrument, a one man army rather than the precision human weapon he is portrayed 
 as in the film. Most of the time in the Bourne Conspiracy you will invariably kill every living 
 thing from point A to point B in the linear levels, and then be forced to fight a predetermined 
 boss hand to hand until you've beaten him into submission. If you're looking for a decent action 
 title to pass the time then by all means pick up the Bourne Conspiracy, if you're expecting a Jason 
 Bourne experience, you're better off spending your 50 bucks on an HD version of the trilogy. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sputnjik
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:10 am PT
Review:  There are 4 movies about rouge agent-killing-machine Jason Bourne, and the story of this game is 
 related only to the first with some flashback missions that give it an extra something. 
  
  Graphic is rather good there are no glitches but the game-play is broken with a lot of cinematic 
 and that "hit the right button at the right time" mini-games. As you might have noticed from the 
 demo there is very little exploring in the game so it's fast paced and linear pushing you to move 
 on all the time, so I missed most of the passports since they don't unlock weapons or anything 
 game vise. Hand to hand combat is button mashing at it's best and the take-downs are great but 
 you have to build up your adrenaline in order to do them. when you have your gun (machine gun or 
 shotgun) it's hard to aim but, a little hint use your instinct and you'll see what happens. weapon 
 take-downs are also impressive and very help-full since your enemy never stops trying to take you 
 down so you'll wanna preserve some of the adrenaline to take down as many as you can before they 
 do the same to you. 
  Since the driving sequence was presented in the demo most of you got the hang of it and that mission 
 is also short and rather easy. 
  
  Since I covered most of the story in the first paragraph I will only say one more thing and that 
 is that I was fighting the final boss not knowing that the game is about to end. I was thinking 
 OK this is little harder than the rest of the game but I want to see what is next and to my surprise 
 it was the credits.
  Enjoy it while it lasts for it doesn't last long. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
