-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rock Band
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/rockband/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 As party games go, this one tops the charts.
 Included hardware is a lot of fun to play with.
 Band world tour mode is severely addictive.
 Fantastic presentation.
 This game will probably make you a better drummer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 $170 price is a lot of money.
 Band world tour can't be played online.
 Some hardware reliability concerns.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.2, 73 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 6,755 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MTV Games
Developer: Harmonix Music
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rock Band does a superb job of bringing out the wannabe rock star in all of us, and creates one 
 of the best party-game experiences of all time. 

  Rock Band is every wannabe musician's dream. A game that takes the four key instruments one needs 
 to make a band a  rock  band (guitar, bass, drums, vocals) , and builds a highly playable and intensely 
 addictive game around them. To a degree, developer Harmonix got a head start on the process of 
 creating Rock Band when it developed the first two Guitar Hero games, but whereas those games were 
 all about the decidedly solo act of severe simulated shredding, Rock Band goes in an entirely different 
 direction. The solo play has taken a backseat to cooperative multiplayer. This game is all about 
 the act of performance as a band, getting a group of four people together and working together 
 to get the highest score bonuses possible as a group, all while fake guitaring and realistically 
 singing and drumming your way through more than 40 different licensed rock hits. The steep $170 
 price tag for the game and bundled hardware might prove to be a barrier for entry for some, and 
 in addition, the hardware itself comes with a few flaws. But if you're willing to make the investment, 
 Rock Band is a guaranteed good time for any music lover, and one of the best party games you'll 
 ever play.  

           Get some friends, shove some fake instruments into their hands, and prepare to rock.  
     

  In a sense, Rock Band is a little like three distinct games built into one. First, there's the 
 guitar game, which lets you play approximately the same sort of game as Guitar Hero on guitar and 
 bass, but with a few key differences. For one, the guitar itself is built quite differently from 
 the Guitar Hero guitars. It's bigger, with a longer neck, and its body feels more solid. The fret 
 buttons are larger, and are flush against the neck of the guitar, and there is a second set of 
 narrower fret buttons all the way down the neck that you can tap on for solos. The guitar even 
 comes with a built-in effects switcher, which puts effects like echo, flange, and wah-wah over 
 the in-game guitar track. The only difference between guitars in the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 
 versions of the game is the fact that people who buy the 360 version get a wired guitar, whereas 
 PS3 owners get a wireless one. On the flip side, PS3 owners don't get a USB hub to connect all 
 the instruments to, whereas 360 owners do. That shouldn't be an issue if you have an older PS3, 
 but if you have a newer one with the two USB ports, you'll need to buy one of those hubs separately. 
 It's also worth noting that you only get one guitar with the bundle on either platform, but if 
 you own a Guitar Hero guitar for the 360, you can use it with the 360 version of Rock Band.  

 
  The actual guitar gameplay isn't much different from Guitar Hero, with you strumming along and 
 periodically tilting the guitar to engage "overdrive" (the game's equivalent of star power) , but 
 a couple of neat twists do add some flavor. For one thing, solos are given their own scoring section 
 in each song, and the game tracks the percentage of notes hit during a solo. The higher the percentage, 
 the higher the score bonus you get at the end of the solo.  

  The guitar game is of good quality, though a couple of things about it might drive a few longtime 
 Guitar Hero fans batty. For one, the difficulty of the game is a good deal less challenging than 
 what the hardcore Guitar Hero fan base is probably accustomed to at this point. The goal with Rock 
 Band seems to be more about bringing in newcomers, so as a result, the difficulty level sits somewhere 
 between Guitar Hero and Guitar Hero II overall. Not a bad thing if Guitar Hero III gave you conniption 
 fits, but potentially less exciting for some of the hardcore guitar gamers out there. Also of note 
 is that the note charts for guitar are handled a bit differently, with notes that can be pulled 
 off via hammer-ons and pull-offs appearing as half-sized notes on the chart. It's not quite as 
 easy to see these notes as in, say, Guitar Hero III, so you might end up screwing up a few solos 
 until you get used to this new methodology.  

  Lastly is the guitar itself. It's a good guitar, but it does some things differently than the standard 
 GH model guitars. The strummer doesn't click when you strum up or down, and the fret buttons seem 
 a bit less forgiving in terms of timing in solos and other, tougher sections. It's not that it's 
 bad or wrong -- it's just different, and it takes some getting used to. Also, you're not going to 
 get a ton of mileage out of things like the second set of buttons and the effects switch. Most 
 people will probably forget the switch is even there until they accidentally turn on wah-wah, and 
 sliding down to the second button set is a bit vexing to do just as you're about to head straight 
 into a solo, since it takes a while to get accustomed both to the smaller buttons and to finding 
 exactly where they are on the neck without staring at the guitar for a few seconds. Fake-guitar 
 virtuosos will probably dig it, but most people will likely stick to the standard method.  

  Next there's the singing game, which closely emulates the mechanics of Karaoke Revolution and 
 SingStar, but, again, with a couple of specific differences. You sing along as the lyrics display 
 on the screen, trying to match your vocal pitch to the meter that moves up and down with the original 
 vocal track. The key thing about singing is that the number of sections where a singer actually 
 gets to do his or her thing is somewhat limited. But even those down moments aren't left for pure 
 silence. Sometimes the vocal area of the screen will turn yellow, indicating for you to "make some 
 noise," which then engages overdrive. There are also sections where you can simply tap the microphone 
 to the rhythm of the song to get a tambourine or cowbell section going.  

           If you've ever played a Karaoke Revolution game, the singing mechanics should be immediately 
 familiar.      

  Beyond these wrinkles, the core of the vocal game design is to just sing, sing, sing... and occasionally 
 rap. If there is any complaint to be made about the vocals, it's that it doesn't leave a lot of 
 room for interpretation. On the higher difficulty settings, the game is extremely intent on you 
 hitting the mapped pitches as closely as possible, even in situations where it seems like the mapped 
 pitches aren't quite exact to what the original vocalist is doing. The same goes for the timing 
 of each word. In some songs vocalists will trail off, but you can't really do that and still get 
 the max score, which makes the vocals feel a bit robotic. Still, most vocal pieces are quite fun 
 regardless, and in a nice touch to help middling vocalists everywhere, you can adjust the original 
 vocal track volume via the controller as you play, so you can use it for as much or as little of 
 a guide as you prefer.  

  Finally there are the drums, easily the most intense and enjoyable instrument of the bunch. The 
 kit consists of a collection of four color-coded pads and a kick pedal, along with a pair of drum 
 sticks. There's really no reference point for the drums portion of the game except for, well, real 
 drums. You hit the pads in time as you would with a realistic drum kit, and on expert, the game 
 practically maps out each song's drum part note for note. Make no mistake: When you are playing 
 on expert, you are playing the drums. If you can do well on expert, you can probably pull out a 
 decent beat on a real drum set at will. The good news for novices is that easy difficulty does 
 a pretty good job of easing you into the act of drumming. The number of notes is much more limited, 
 kick pedal usage is rare, and drum fills are eased back quite a bit.  

  Speaking of fills, one really cool thing about the drum portion of the game is that it allows for 
 some improvisation. The way the drums handle overdrive is to give you some blocked-out sections 
 where you can just bust out any kind of drum fill you want. The pads act as a snare, two tom-toms, 
 and a crash cymbal. Go nuts, but just be sure you hit the last crash cymbal note at the end of 
 the fill, at which point you will engage overdrive.  

  If there is any issue to be taken with the game's hardware, it's its reliability. For instance, 
 one of our pre-release kick pedals from the drum kit, which is made up of a somewhat thin piece 
 of plastic hooked into a spring underneath it, actually snapped in half during a particularly heated 
 rendition of The Who's "Won't Get Fooled Again." The other pedals we used for testing held up despite 
 some extreme thrashing, but all the same, our suggestion is that if you've got a Mr. Heavyfoot 
 in your band, tell them to go shoeless and ease up on the pedal slammage a smidge. Another issue 
 is the USB microphone. One of our retail boxes came with a broken mic that cut in and out and wouldn't 
 register our vocals properly. Any supported USB headset mic will apparently work in a pinch on 
 the PS3, and the standard Xbox 360 headset works on there as well, but regardless, that's still 
 a concerning issue. At least EA seems to be aware of potential hardware issues, as a big flyer 
 inside the box explains the 60 day hardware warranty that comes with the game and directs you to 
 an EA Web site. You might want to keep that URL handy if you run into any issues.  

  Those are all the technicals of the instrumental gameplay, but none of that quite emphasizes how 
 excellent the game is at emulating the act of band play. By themselves, each instrument is basically 
 fun, but when you get four people together playing at once, something spectacular emerges. Part 
 of it is the way in which scoring has been designed for cooperative play. Overdrive can be turned 
 on by anyone, but the more people you have in overdrive at once, the higher the score bonuses. 
 By the same token, if one person in your band fails out of a song, another can simply engage overdrive 
 (provided enough is stored up at that point) and come to the rescue, bringing the player back into 
 the fold. But it goes beyond even the scoring mechanics. There's just something intangibly brilliant 
 about the way having everyone play together  feels . For instance, because the drums emulate the 
 real-life instrument so closely, having a good drummer is paramount for success. If your drummer 
 gets off beat, it can badly screw everyone up. Along the same lines, when your drummer is in a 
 solid groove and the rest of the band is able to lock into that groove, the feeling that you're 
 actually performing a song as opposed to simulating one is palpable, and it is quite the exhilarating 
 feeling.  

           The hardware the game comes with is all fun to play with, though there are some reliability 
 concerns.      

  The game's song list goes a long way toward making that multiplayer even more enjoyable. Though 
 the game includes only 45 licensed songs (along with 13 bonus tracks from lesser-known bands) , 
 many of these 45 are big-name tracks that are immediately recognizable and span multiple rock genres. 
 Alternative rock fans will find such '90s delights as Weezer's "Say It Ain't So," Smashing Pumpkins' 
 "Cherub Rock," and Nirvana's "In Bloom." Modern rockers will find The Killers' "When You Were Young," 
 Foo Fighters' "Learn to Fly," and Yeah Yeah Yeahs' "Maps." Classic rock fans will delight in being 
 able to rock their way through Black Sabbath's "Paranoid," The Rolling Stones' "Gimme Shelter," 
 and KISS's "Detroit Rock City." Other, less specifically denominational yet altogether awesome 
 songs include The Ramones' "Blitzkrieg Bop," Rush's "Tom Sawyer," and Metallica's "Enter Sandman." 

  The vast majority of these songs are original tracks from the artists, with only a few covers scattered 
 throughout the tracklist. Only a few of the covers really stick out much. The Geddy Lee on "Tom 
 Sawyer" is a bit overblown, and the singer of Mountain's "Mississippi Queen" is a bit odd sounding 
 as well. But by and large, the covers blend in nicely, and whoever did the vocals for Steven Tyler 
 and Bruce Dickinson on the Aerosmith and Iron Maiden songs respectively deserve some kind of vocalist 
 soundalike merit badge.     

   

  The only real problem with the tracklist is that some of the songs aren't the kind of immediately 
 recognizable stuff you would expect in a game that's all about a bunch of people getting together 
 and making elaborate band karaoke. Quick, off the top of your head, immediately think up the melody 
 to The Police's "Next to You," or Molly Hatchet's "Flirtin' With Disaster." None of these songs 
 are unpleasant to play or anything, but they don't quite fit into the scheme of songs anyone can 
 just pick up and rock to, especially on vocals. Heck, just about anyone can probably whine their 
 way through "Cherub Rock" or snarl through "Enter Sandman" on the lower difficulty levels. But 
 Aerosmith's "Train Kept a Rollin'"? Maybe not so much, but perhaps that just depends on you and 
 your friends' personal tastes in music.  

  Clearly Rock Band's focus and ultimate strength is as a multiplayer game, specifically a cooperative 
 one. This is also evidenced by the game's somewhat less captivating single-player element, at least 
 compared with its multiplayer game. You can play solo in quick play, or in one of the three solo 
 career modes, one for guitar, one for vocals, and one for drums. These all follow the basic formula 
 laid down by Guitar Hero, with tiers that unlock in order of increasing difficulty. One nice thing 
 is that each instrument's career offers a totally different track order, scaled to the difficulty 
 for that specific instrument. The other cool thing is the fact that you can customize your own 
 rocker for each instrument. You start out with some basic edits, and then as you go, the cash you 
 earn in the career mode lets you buy all sorts of wicked rock garb, tattoos, haircuts, and the 
 like. But as far as the progression of the career itself is concerned, it's pretty boilerplate. 
 Nothing of note really happens during the course of the career, and it ultimately lacks the dynamism 
 of the band world tour mode.  

           The character customization element is actually pretty awesome.      

  Band world 
 tour is the co-op career mode. Two to four players can create their own rockers and start rocking 
 right away, and band members can jump in or drop out at any time, so long as the profile of the 
 band founder is always signed in and playing. The mode is essentially a much more fleshed-out version 
 of the same sort of tiered career mode as the solo tour. You start out as a nobody band, playing 
 the teensiest club in your hometown. As you play gigs and perform well, you'll earn more fans, 
 which helps propel your band ever forward toward rock stardom. You also earn stars in each gig, 
 and the more stars you collect, the more gigs that will unlock in each available city.  

  This mode is, in a word, addictive. Working to gather as many fans and stars as you can becomes 
 almost compulsive after a while. If you've got friends with you willing to stick it out, you could 
 potentially lose a lot of hours of your life touring the world. Another thing that makes band world 
 tour so cool is the presentation of it all. As you grow your fan base, you'll earn the opportunity 
 to get a crappy van, then a tour bus, and even a jet. You'll have the chance to win another band's 
 roadies, hire a sound guy, get signed to a label, and eventually work your way into the hall of 
 fame. It's an awesome experience, to be sure.  

  The mode itself never actually ends, letting you continue to earn fans and keep playing gigs, though 
 after a while you will forced into the higher difficulty settings, which potentially spells trouble 
 if you start running into songs you don't really know yet, and you eventually start to run into 
 a fair amount of song repetition, especially if you haven't already unlocked all the game's songs 
 in the solo tour. Starting out fresh guarantees you'll be playing a lot of the same songs again 
 and again from the very beginning. If you unlock everything in solo, the tour opens up a great 
 deal. While 58 songs might seem like a lot to pick from, you're still going to end up repeating 
 songs a fair amount, especially when you do the special challenges, which automatically pick random 
 songs for you.  

  It is perhaps a good thing, then, that Rock Band is supported with lots of downloadable content. 
 Several song packs (including artist packs for bands like Queens of the Stone Age and Metallica) , 
 single-song downloads, and full-album downloads (The Who's "Who's Next" will be the first) have 
 been announced thus far. Pricing on these songs is slightly cheaper than the Guitar Hero song packs, 
 but not so much cheaper that you won't notice the hurt on your wallet if you start splurging for 
 every song that comes along. Still, the idea of getting regular downloadable content is great (Harmonix 
 and MTV are apparently going to start out by releasing songs on a weekly schedule) , and the full-album 
 download idea is awesome. Even better, any song you download makes its way into the rotation in 
 the band world tour, which should alleviate some of the repetition over the long haul.  

  The one truly unfortunate thing about the band world tour mode is that it isn't online. That might 
 be a dicey prospect for those without regularly available friends with a similar love of music 
 games. The good news is that there is an online co-op quick play option, so if you and your buddies 
 just want to get together and play single songs as a band for fun and high scores, you can. The 
 online also includes competitive options, such as a basic score duel (same instrument, same difficulty, 
 play the entire song) and a tug-of-war mode (same instrument, any difficulty level, trade off sections 
 of the song, try to win the crowd over to your side by performing the best) . These modes are about 
 as enjoyable as Guitar Hero III's online component, so if you dug that stuff, you'll definitely 
 dig this. The online modes also performed well across the board, with no noticeable lag while playing. 

  Perhaps one of the best things about Rock Band is its presentation. The in-game visuals are of 
 very high quality, with great character modeling, top-notch animation work on each musician, and 
 lots of neat lighting and visual effects during the course of the performance. And the best thing 
 about all of that? None of it causes the game to slow down whatsoever. The note charts stay steady 
 no matter how much craziness is going on in the background. If there's any flaw to be found in 
 the visuals at all, it's that the notes on the note charts are a little on the small side. It's 
 not a big deal in one- or two-player play, but when you have both guitars and drums going at once, 
 it can sometimes be tough to make out whether you've hit a note or not. Also, if you're trying 
 to figure out which version of the game to get, visuals won't make much difference. Both the Xbox 
 360 and PS3 versions of the game look pretty much identical to one another.  

           Seriously, if you're able to get good at hard and expert drumming in this game, and you 
 still can't play a solid 4/4 rock beat on a real drum kit, seek professional help.      

  The presentational quality goes well beyond the visuals. Everything about Rock Band just feels 
 authentic. It's the little details, like how some arenas will put your band's name in big lights 
 behind you on stage, or how when you're performing well the crowd will start singing along with 
 the vocalist. Awesome stuff. Heck, even the game's loading screens are cool, offering up some neat 
 band trivia, as well as dynamically generated band photos featuring your created musicians in a 
 variety of delightfully exaggerated rock poses.  

  All told, Rock Band turns in an absolutely stellar performance. And much like any real band worth 
 its salt, it's not just because of one or two things that it does well while the rest fall by the 
 wayside. Each individual component of the game is good on its own, but it's when you put those 
 things together into a collective whole that the game truly shines. Ultimately, the $170 investment 
 is bound to be a sticking point for some, especially those who don't have readily available friends 
 who can come over and rock whenever the itch needs to be scratched. But even with that caveat in 
 mind, Rock Band is easily one of the most ambitious music games ever produced, and that it is so 
 successful in its ambition makes it something really special.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (433 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: apequest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  this game would have gotten 9.8 from me, but there was not a lot of songs and not all of them where 
 good. but this game is won of the best party games i have ever played. it is also good that they 
 have so many songs you have to get separately, but i think some of those songs should have been 
 on to start with. if you buy the game used you end up saving a lot of money. there is a few songs 
 that have never been on any rock band or guitar hero. 
  
  1 skillet whisper in the dark
  2 skillet rebirth
  3 switch foot meant to live
  4 switch foot stars
  5 12 stones the way 
 i feel
  6 skillet the last night
  
  those are just some songs i think they should put on the game. listen to them and see if you don't 
 think they are good for the game. there are other songs but these are the main one's.
  
  over all this game was really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:04 am PT
Review:  Rock Band was, originally when it was released, known as a cheap rip-off of Guitar Hero. You can 
 play guitar, bass, vocals, and drums. It has a very bad song selection, and, if you play guitar 
 hero, is very bad to get into. But, in it's own right, it is still a fairly fun party game with 
 a large choice in instruments.
  
  The Good:
  -4 different instruments to choose from
  -Fun world tour mode
  -Good character creation
  -Exceptional graphics
  
  The Bad:
  -Vry 
 bad song choice, not as many hardcore rock songs as guitar hero
  -Drums are unreliable
  -Hard to get into if you play guitar hero often
  -360 graphics aren't too good
  
  Overall, 
 Rock Band is a fun rythm game, but it has a bad soundtrack and unreliable drum intruments. I would 
 buy it if you prefer big party games, but Guitar Hero has a much better song list, seriously. 
 
  
  Overall, 6/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artist09
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Rock band. is both a excellent rhythm based game that will keep you coming back to play over and 
 over again. You can be young or old but there is plenty for all ages.
  
  Rock Band's gameplay is excellent. The game is immersive, and brings the inner rocker out of anyone. 
 The game has great visuals that look and feel just like a rock concert. These visuals can be admired 
 best when watching a friend play. The music ranges from the 60's classical rock to modern day music. All 
 feels just the same way and harmonized for excellence. The game become even more exciting when you 
 play songs you have never heard before and try to figure out that particular song. This game is 
 long, fun, energetic and even highly enjoyable online. The content download is also a great bonus 
 for expanding the music library.
  
  The gameplay is consistant and offers a variety of ways to play, guitar, drums and a microphone. Sometimes 
 the game can become repeative but by changing the difficultiy you can get a nice twist on the songs. If 
 you want a extra thrill play the band tour mode online and feel what its like to be with a real 
 band. You will have your ups and downs online but in the end everything will turn out great.
  
  In conclusion, Rock Band. is probablly the best rhythm game out there (comparable to guitar 
 hero) , so go on out buy Rock Band and pop Rock Band into your Xbox 360 and prepare to play some 
 awsome music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacroxs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:27 am PT
Review:  I was talking to my friend on msn till he brings up Rock band and tells me how he got it. i asked 
 if i could come over and play and he said yes so i walked over and played most likely the best 
 rhythm game in a long time
  
  Theirs no story besides you just making a band and going to play at gigs...
  
  now sound Sound 
 in rock band well is music... you play songs.
  
  Gameplay finally i can start writing... The gameplay in rock band is quite good. Instead of having 
 one guitar you get: a drums, 2 guitar and a mic. When you have a bunch of people over it becomes 
 the ultimate party game... The only problem i have with it is well no slipknot! Slipknot has some 
 amazing drumming songs. Disturbed has great Guitar songs. and well i don't know breaking Benjamin 
 has some alright vocal songs. its called rock band yet it does not have slipknot granted it has 
 disturbed. (BTW it wont lose marks for not having slipknot... ) Another cool feature is naming 
 your band we called ours... zombie rap jab. yep you heard that right or read that right if you want 
 to get technical
  
  Graphics is guess are good for a rhythm game and what not...
  
  Sound:9
  Graphics:8.5
  Gameplay:8.8
  
  Overall 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenden403
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 2:00 pm PT
Review:  You may think Rock Band is just a stupid game that lets you pretend to play a plastic instrument. 
 No. It's a really awesome stupid game that lets you pretend to play a plasic instrument.
  
  The gameplay is simple yet addicting. You hold a button down and hit the note when it comes down 
 in a song. Anyone who's played this game knows that thats suprisingly fun. You can play drums, 
 guitar, singing or bass. It's really easy on the easy difficulty (duh) but once you get better 
 you can impress your friends and have bragging rights that you play on Expert, and it's worth it 
 :D, but don't expect to get on stage and rock out with Kirk Hammet at a Mettalica concert just 
 because you cab push a couple buttons.
  
  The graphics are good. Thats all I can really say... It's just people on stage, but it does look 
 really good. The audio is deffinetly good as you could guess with it being a music game.
  
  There's nothing wrong with the controles really. Except, sometimes the drums and singing don't 
 respond and the guitar controler is good looking but a lot of people like the guitar hero guitars 
 better so I recomend you get a guitar hero guitar. (the best is guitar hero 2 in my opinion)
  
  Rock band is pretty old so it's pretty cheap. Only considering that Rock Band 2 is out now 
 you should probably get that one. 
  
  Pros
  -lets you play Guitar, Drums, Singing, Bass
  -addicting
  - Just plain fun
  - fun to play multiplayer
  -lots of downloadable content and 
 songs
  
  Cons
  -it sucks to play with people who suck
  -controles can be unresponsive
  
  I give Rock Band
  
  Gameplay 18/20
  Setlist: 13.5/15
 
  Graphics/sound: 8.5/10
  Controles: 9/10
  Moneys worth: 5/5
  
  Overall: 90%
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Its hard to write one review for Rock Band, as playing with friends is such a vastly different 
 experience than playing solo.
  
  So lets talk solo first. By yourself, or two people swapping play time, the game is OK. The music 
 selection is awesome. All the songs you love to sing along to or that you've ever honed your tremendous 
 air guitar skill on. The game mechanics are nice and obvious saving you any learning curve. We 
 even put my mother-in-law on it with no downtime. BUT, the difficulty progression is punishing. 
 That wouldn't be so bad if the game didn't tap into that OCD part of your brain that demands perfection. 
 Getting 2/3rds of the way through a song just to mess up royally is more likely to make me swear 
 and shake my fist at the cruel Lords of Rock than to just laugh it off and try over.
  
  Which brings me to multiplayer. Thoroughly awesome. Having a full band really, and I mean REALLY, 
 completes the experience. All of a sudden its less about obsessive compulsive timing control, but 
 more about enjoying the hell out of those songs you love to pretend you could actually play.... 
 and usually laughing at the poor sucker who's stuck in the singing position. Multiplayer is, for 
 lack of a better word, a magical experience.
  
  The last thing endearing me to Rock Band is the avatar customization, especially for multiplayer. 
 Much more satisfying than the limited model/skin selection of its competitor, Guitar Hero. Our 
 last Rock Band party burned at least an hour laughing at our insane avatars alone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mysterywriter
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  It's a great game for those players (like me) that are frustrated wanna be um... Rockers. GH has 
 the same elements but it's easier in different areas. Rock Band is the hardest to play on Drums 
 and Guitar isn't all that easy either. I am the Best singer ever, at least for THIS game. LOL. 
 No really this game makes it easier to actually sing the songs than GH does. Not really sure why 
 yet, but I'm working on it. I just wish the the available to BUY songs was more and varied. Unlock-ables 
 are a surprise, But.... I don't feel that they really strayed too far from a "cookie cutter" list. 
 The Who is awesome and yes , YES is great too. The thing is I think they slapped this one together 
 and then had no choice but to MAKE a second to TRY and make up for what they did. Where was AC/DC 
 then? Why wait? Why was New Metallica not an option until suddenly they get their own game, just 
 like AC/DC? Where are all the ALTERNATIVE bands that Everyone is Clamoring for? I know I wouldn't 
 be upset about MORE FOB, 30 seconds to Mars, Three days Grace, Puddle of Mud, Eve 6. I could go 
 on and on.... I want THAT game. RB is the first and yes they tried with 2, granted I haven't played 
 2 yet, But I did see the songs..... And I am a little disappointed, But if I wasn't they wouldn't 
 TRY harder, Right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TVmania619
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band may seem like a cheap gimmick just ripping off Guitar Hero and adding a few extra instruments 
 to make it seem "different" and I can safely say that it is similar yet different at the same time 
 in a good way.
  The basic idea is to hit the notes as they reach the targets at the bottom of the screen. Miss 
 too many, and you fail. Simple as that (at least for guitar, bass and drums) . The singing is slightly 
 different as you have to sing at the right pitch. If you do not sing well enough, you fail then 
 as well. It still may seem like a rip off of Guitar Hero (even down to Overdrive - if you hit the 
 white notes in a streak, you gather Overdrive and when you use it, it increases your score, just 
 like Star Power) . However, the drums and singing is very unique and what I think separates this 
 from Guitar Hero.
  The single player may be reminiscent of Guitar Hero, as by going through setlists of 5 songs each 
 time. Pass each one, and you unlock more songs. The multiplayer aims higher and also reaches higher. 
 As a group on one console, you can go to various countries and do gigs to unlock more and get more 
 fans and to earn vehicles to travel to more countries. You can also create sets and characters 
 as well. The true replayability is to go through all of the difficulties and to try and get 5 Gold 
 Stars on each song
  There are also songs for everyone, ranging from The Who to Red Hot Chilli Peppers, Kiss to Metallica 
 and Deep Purple to The Hives and with a difficulty for everyone and the exciting use of Fills for 
 the drums on Rock Band, this game is very unique and should be owned by anyone who has a music 
 game collection, or is interested in starting a collection and like the best genre of music -Rock, 
 then I highly recommend that you get this game.
  
  And remember, Guitar hero: World Tour copied Rock Band, Rock Band did not copy Guitar Hero! :) 
 
  
  Look for more of my reviews ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Rock Band, made by Harmonix who helped make GH1 and GH2. They did a brilliant job on this game. 
 I liked it better than any guitar hero ever released. There's just one problem about this game, 
 and every other music game out there - it gets old fast. Yeah, you can beat it on 1-4 difficulties. 
 You can download songs online from the console, but what are you proving? It gets old hitting notes 
 with a plastic guitar, fake drums, and a bass. Singing was very fun I have to admit.. haha. Some 
 people love these games, but I find them all the same, but RB brought something new to the table.
 
  
  Rock Band is way easier than guitar hero. That can be good and bad. If you were having a tough 
 time with guitar hero, then go to Rock Band. If you are a pro at guitar hero... then this should 
 be a piece of cake for you. There is a lot of songs, but you will get bored after beating them 
 as I said. 
  
  Rock Band brought new instruments to the table - the drums, the bass, and singing. It's very fun 
 to play with your family, and create your own band, and gain fans as you go throughout the game, 
 and beat songs. The harder songs you play the more fans you gain. 
  
  The graphics are... well, there are really no graphics besides the people playing in the background... but, 
 the graphics are nice if you're talking about them. 
  
  Value -- It depends... do you like music games? Do they keep you interested for a long time? If 
 so, then yes, this is worth it. It's more fun with a lot of people. When you're by yourself... sucks 
 for you. 
  
  Overall, Rock Band brought new things to the gaming industry, and it will have its place in gaming 
 history. It's a decent game in my opinion, but not amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altiair
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Rock band is an awsome game but I bought it and a couple days later it started to break. And I justwant 
 to sue them, but people keep telling me not to, besides that would be crazy. Well besides the fact 
 that it breaks E Z its a great game. I really liked the create your own character,,, it really 
 brought the music out of u. Like on guitar hero3 there are only like10 guys to choose from. I still 
 thik guitar hero 4 is better. the online gameplay is fun you could play with your friends and earn 
 achievments for xboxlive.
  It is a great game i loved it ,.. I definetely recommend it. The single player is pretty lame it 
 just seems like .......... its fun actually. Guitar hero 4 looks better but come on this is just 
 ROCK BAND1 uno. I always wondered why a video game maker doesnt work an extra month and make a cool 
 new expierience called create your own stage that would be awsome. I love rock band its awsome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Empire_Gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2008 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is just plain out an awesome multi or single player game. From the beginning the game 
 draws you into it with good character customization options and a real focus on your band (as there 
 should be, the game is called Rock BAND after all) the game is hard to put down. The Band World 
 Tour multiplayer option is excellent letting you and three of your friends form a band to ROCK 
 THE HECK OUT OF THE WORLD!!! or at least become idolized by thousands of virtual fans. This is 
 basically the core of the game, in Band World Tour mode you start as an upstart band, made up of 
 a Lead Singer, Lead Guitar Player, Bass Guitar Player, and a Drummer, playing in dinky taverns, 
 clubs, and other small venues that I would in real life avoid like the plague! But eventually you'll 
 start earning fans and stars (the games rankings for how well you did on a song) that will allow 
 you to get to new better venues and more cities around the world. You'll also earn money (Duh!) 
 which you can use to customize your character clothes, appearance (hair, face-paint, tats, etc) , 
 and instruments in the Rock Shop. The items in the Rock Shop are great for customizing your character, 
 but they seem to be a little lacking in options for the Lead Singer and Bass in that you can't 
 buy new microphones (Yeah I know that seems like it's not a big deal, but it would've been a nice 
 touch) and the amount of Bass guitars you can buy is less then the amount of regular guitars. Rock 
 band is mainly just a fun multiplayer game.
  
  The Bad: Unfortunately it's not exactly perfect, In Band World Tour mode the game assigns the first 
 player to sign in the position of Band Leader and from that point on that player absolutely has 
 to play whatever position (Unless if they play guitar, they can switch between lead and bass if 
 they play guitar) they signed in as and the rest of the band can't play without that person, also 
 band members can't switch instruments. The Rock Shop's customization are lacking in a few areas. 
 Singing can make you look stupid (well it made me feel stupid) and the words they want you to sing 
 aren't always the same as what the real singer is singing.
  
  Conclusion: Rock band is a very good game for people who want to unleash their inner rocker with 
 some friends and if your in to music games like Guitar Hero this is definitely a game you want 
 to pick up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jim1845
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Advantages: Cool drum kit, good soundtrack and excellent co-op (Band World Tour) .
  Disadvantages: Fragile drum kit and weak character creation.
  When Activision were put in the 
 shoes of creating the new Guitar Hero game, Harmonix had a bigger job to do, Rock Band. Rock Band 
 is the new Rhythm game from Harmonix that will keep you rockin' 'n' rollin' all night and partying 
 everyday.
  
  -: Controls:-
  Guitar-
  The guitar controller is in the shape of the Fender Stratocaster. Just like in the Guitar Hero 
 series, the guitar has 5 colored fret buttons, green, red, yellow, blue and orange. You strum the 
 notes using the strum bar when the colored note runs past the end of the highway. Whats different 
 about the fret buttons from the Guitar Hero guitar to the Rock Band guitar is that they've tried 
 to make them look a bit more realistic and they have. The colors have been placed on the side of 
 each of the fret buttons making the guitar from the front view look like the real neck of a guitar. 
 Its not a big deal but it makes you look just a little bit cooler while playing it.
  
  The guitar controller has a bit more weight to it than the Guitar Hero guitar, which makes feel 
 a bit more comfortable. Just like the Guitar Hero guitar it has the whammy-bar. The whammy-bar 
 feels more comfortable and it is not as wobbly as the previous guitar controller and it doesn't 
 make a tapping noise when its got as far as it can go because that did get a little annoying with 
 the Guitar Hero guitar.
  
  A new feature to the Rock Band guitar is the 5 way switch. The 5 way switch changes the sound of 
 the guitar and gives you 5 different effects. The 5 effects are, Wah-Wah, Flanger, Echo, Chorus 
 and if you don't want any effect, there is the choice of having None. The effects are a good little 
 added feature to the play of the guitar, but if you really have to use the effects for a certain 
 part just to make it sound better for you, you better get it ready before the song begins, because 
 when your in the middle of song and you want to change your effect it won't help if your trying 
 to get to 100% because you won't be able to continue playing when trying to change your effect... 
 obviously. 
  
  When in gameplay, there are sections on certain songs called Solo Sections. When in the Solo Sections 
 you can use the new solo buttons. When in a Solo Section you can use the solo buttons without strumming 
 each note with the strum bar, you can just finger tap the notes to make it a little easier, but 
 if you do want to just finger tap them all without strumming it does take a little getting used 
 to. In a fast section between two notes in a Solo Section, the solo buttons really help if your 
 using your right hand to hit the other note. Like when your playing between two notes on expert 
 and its going ridiculously fast then they make it easier for you to hit the highest buttons with 
 your right hand while keeping your left hand on the lowest buttons.
  
  Just like in the Guitar Hero series, when your nailing all of those notes you will gain your precious 
 Star Power. Not any longer now your earning Overdrive. Overdrive is exactly the same to Guitar 
 Heros Star Power and serves the same purpose. It can pick you up if playing badly and your about 
 to fail the song and it can give you a much bigger song. Its a good thing to include because if 
 your failing and you want to get through the entire song it can pick you up, or if you've played 
 through the song once already and your trying to beat your old record you can go back through it 
 but using much more Overdrive. To deploy the Overdrive, you tilt the guitar upwards. Tilting the 
 guitar upwards will hit a mercury switch inside the guitar. And if your at a drunken party playing 
 the game pull a really queer pose. Its a good way of getting it going, it's better than flipping 
 a switch or pressing a button. 
  
  And then obviously, it has the Xbox Guide button and a D-Pad in place on the body of the guitar. 
 Speaking of the Guide button, if your signed into Xbox LIVE and somebody sending you a message 
 you can quickly jump to the message by pressing the Guide button. This will automatically pause 
 the game for you without pressing the pause button on the guitar controller. Not a big deal, just 
 throwing it out there its just something that helps me while in the middle of a conversation and 
 shredding. 
  
  Drums-
  Now nobody expected something like this to be actually possible. Now, the drum controller, it has 
 4 colored pads, and a kick pedal and a pair of sticks (can't rock them drums without sticks!!!) .
 
  
  The easy difficulty really cuts out alot of the work, basically. It'll be like you hit a pad once 
 and it will do an insane drum solo and it also doesn't use alot of the kick pedal (for people that 
 have no legs, no rhythm and very lazy people) . The medium difficulty trys to get you to use a bit 
 more rhythm with your hands and feet, just a little bit harder than easy. The hard and expert difficulties 
 are really for people that know how to play the drums or have just got better by playing through 
 medium and just giving hard a go and nailing the first few songs and carrying on through the career.
 
  
  With the drums on hard and expert you are playing pretty much the song your playing note for note. 
 So this game, besides from being a form of entertainment can also help you with your playing skills 
 on the drums.
  
  When nailing every note and gaining Overdrive, to deploy it and get your Overdrive going there 
 will a be solo section. This solo section lasts about 2 or 3 seconds you can play whatever you 
 want and at the end of the solo sections there will a glowing green to tell you to hit that green 
 pad to start of your Overdrive.
  
  Mic-
  What could you say more than, its a microphone. Just like any karaoke game you sing to the song 
 in the right pitch so that you can get points and get through the song without failing.
  
  During a guitar solo or at a time in the song where your not singing or doing anything to keep 
 you busy and to get extra points there are tambourine parts. This is where there will a round circle 
 going past a line, when the circle reaches the line thats your cue to tap the microphone to make 
 the tambourine sound. Its good idea to keep busy and not sit there and watch the other player do 
 something while your sat in a corner waiting for your next verse.
  
  To set off Overdrive with the microphone there will be a section where you just say or sing something 
 into the microphone and it will set the Overdrive. Its a good way to set the Overdrive off because 
 hear is the time to say whatever you want. And when you not playing on your own in single player, 
 but in co-op when you set the overdrive off, your Overdrive will not drain until you start singing 
 again.
  
  -: Gameplay:-
  When playing in single player or co-op there will be parts called "Big Rock Endings". This is where 
 you and your band can rack up your last big points before the song ends. Its a good idea, if someone 
 is 10,000 points away from 200,000, they can quickly as possible try their best to get that extra 
 10,000 in the big rock ending.
  
  In Guitar Hero, you would have the entire band in the background behind the highway stood in one 
 place playing the song. Now, on Rock Band, its much more entertaining for someone who sitting and 
 watching someone play the game watch the band in the background... actually move. The band are 
 always rocking around and every band members looks like they are actually playing their instruments 
 properly.
  
  The crowd sing along with famous parts of the songs and on songs like Metallica's "Enter Sandman" 
 you can see parts of the crowds in mosh pits.
  
  -: Multiplayer:-
  A feature to the multiplayer side of the game is Band World Tour, where you can have 2-4 players 
 touring the world, playing new arenas, unlocking new songs, earning fans and whole lot of money. 
 The idea of earning fans and stuff like that will keep you playing all the time, because unlike 
 the Guitar Hero III co-op career, all you did was went through each song until you got to end of 
 the games 
  
  When playing in a multiplayer game if one of your band mates fail you can bring them back into 
 the song and see if they can try again. If none of the band including yourself don't have any Overdrive 
 and one of your band mates are out and you don't save them in time, then the whole band will fail. 
 
  
  Online play is really everything i imagined, you just get a bunch of players together and you play 
 a couple of songs. But thats just band quickplay. You then have Score Duel. Score Duel is when 
 two players with the same instruments play against each other and see who gets the most points 
 and you can each play on whatever difficulty you want. And then you also have Tug of War. Tug of 
 War is when again two player play against each other on the the same instruments and play through 
 a song but you both have to be on the same difficulty. And instead of using points you just use 
 basically a rope between the two of you, and whoever plays the best will get more of the rope to 
 his side. These modes can also be played locally. And with the Score Duel and Tug of War modes 
 you can choose between player match or ranked match. On ranked match your game is monitored so 
 both of you will be recognized by other players on the leaderboards. I think its a good idea not 
 just to have co-op modes but also head-to-head multiplayer modes just incase jealousy rises within 
 the band members.
  
  -: Sound:- 
  The soundtrack to Rock Band has a little bit of everything. It has everything for every fan of 
 a certain form of rock music. You can also purchase downloadable songs to game which also has a 
 wide range of music but with the downloaded songs it doesn't just have rock music it has all types 
 of music. Its better for everyone to appreciate the game if it has something more than just pure 
 rock.
  
  Well thats pretty much all I can give you of my knowledge of what i've played from Rock Band.
 
  
  Thanks reading. Jim1845.
  Summary: Basically Guitar Hero with drums and mic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloudkirby
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I didn't exactly play rockband, I forced 4 of my freinds, Yager, Empire gamer, Nod, And The Purist, 
 to play the game.
  
  Tonight, Cloudkirby employ's slave labor to review Rockband for Xbox360
  
  There are several 
 reasons I did not play the game.
  1: I play rhythm games like an epileptic weasel with turrets. A few minutes in and I would have 
 given up all hope of likeing the game, throw down the controller in frustration, swore up a storm, 
 and give this game a 0.
  2. I had no interest in the first place, but my friends would not shut up about it.
  Thats all.
 
  
  So the review then.
  Story:
  You are an aspiring band wanting to become world famous... thats all I got here really. WELL WHAT 
 DID YOU EXPECT FROM A BAND GAME!!!
  
  Gameplay:
  If you have played guitar hero, this game is almost no different. Press buttons, strum strum bar, 
 repeat ad-nausium. The difference here is the option to play as the singer or drummer, both of 
 which make different gameplay experiences. Lead guitar is the favorite, the drummer is easiest, 
 the base dosn't matter much, and the singer makes you look like a complete retard. EDIT: Just now 
 I had a bout with the singing part and got the song 100% the first time, Freakin'-a. (I still think 
 i looked retarded)
  
  Graphics: If your expecting true Xbox360 looks, look elswhere. what you get here is a slow-moving, 
 average PS2 at best.
  
  The Bad: Every game has to face my chainsaw eventually.
  Songs repeat a lot in setlists (annoyingly) .
  The pause button is very close to the action buttons 
 so pressing it on accident is very contagious.
  The pause menu takes you to a different screen so its very difficult to effectively pause.
  
 
  So Cloudkirby, you blond rocker you, is this a good game?
  The game is fun, depending on what your tastes are so, yes, it's really good. But if you already 
 have guitar hero, I wouldn't get to uptight about it.
  
  This has been a Review in a series I would like to call, "Games better than de Blob" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_tails
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  If you haven't played Rock Band yet, your probably a) not into music games, b) you're musically 
 challenged or c) you live in Australia. 
  Despite the massive delay it took for this game to grace our fine landdownunder shores, Rock Band 
 is every bit as fresh as the day it first was released in the US a mere 12 months ago.
  
  Rock Band is developed by ex-Guitar Hero gurus Harmonix, and instead of focusing on just the Guitar 
 aspects, Harmonix have opted for a full band experience. And what is that? Well, it consists of 
 Guitar, Drums, Vocals and to some extend, Bass. If the addition of extra instruments/game elements 
 have you worried, Rock Band pretty much plays the same as Guitar Hero.
  
  If you've been paying attention you'd know all about this game already. You have a series of plastic 
 and fake instruments. A plastic Fender Guitar (in the case of Rock Band that is) , which has a series 
 of colored fret buttons which you hold down and strum with a strum bar as the notes appear on screen. 
 You have a drum set with four drum pads, each with a different color assigned to them, and much 
 like the guitar, you smack a particular colored pad as it shows on screen. Now the vocals play 
 differently than previously mentioned gameplay elements, and play out much like the Singstar games 
 (and if this concept confuses you, than please go check it out for yourself) . And lastly, Bass 
 plays out like Guitar..... yes, I know.
  
  Guitar, Drums and Vocals have there own solo tour mode, where you play through a list of songs 
 that increase in difficulty. Each instrument have a varied set list, so if you intend on playing 
 through on each, you'll find a slightly different line up each time. Rock Band features a 'create 
 your own rocker' feature, which is levels above GH's own standard rocker list, as well as GH: WT's 
 'create your own rocker', Even though the templates you can choose from in terms of face and hair 
 are limited, the character models look very nice.
  
  Where Rock Band really highlights is the World Tour mode. As the name suggests, players form a 
 band (2 - 4 people) and enter a simulated world where they travel the globe playing gigs and earning 
 cash and fans. There is a list of major cities, all with three venues to play at, and various different 
 gigs to perform at. These range from one off song lists, to make your own set, to random song selection, 
 to 20+ song sets fitted within a theme (i. e rock and roll etc) .
  Even though it seems shallow on paper, the World Tour mode is deep, drawing you in and consuming 
 your time for hours. You can continuously keep earning more cash and more fans, unlocking more 
 larger venues and harder set lists. 
  
  Now, as important as an amp is to an electric guitar, so are the songs to Rock Band. With only 
 40 or so songs in the main set list of the game, and an extra 10 or so appearing as bonus songs, 
 Rock Band covers a variety of musical genres and tastes. First play through will find yourself 
 cringing at some of the choices as the set list moves into some country and southern rock (which 
 isn't everyone's cup of tea) . However, these songs strangely grow on you, especially in Band Tour 
 mode where you are forced to sometimes play the same song in repeated set lists in a short amount 
 of time. 
  Not only is the set list strong, with acts such as 'Weezer', 'Metellica', 'Aerosmith', 'Black Sabbath', 
 'The Clash', 'Sound Garden', 'Blur' and others, but due to Harmonix's dedication over the past 
 year, Rock Band comes to Australia with a full 300+ song catalog of down loadable content (for 
 360 and PS3 users) .
  
  Apart from being an addictive game, Rock Band also outshines it's rival with amazing presentation. 
 The game engine looks better than any Guitar Hero game to date, despite being a year old. There 
 are also nice little touches, such as, get a high note streak, and the crowd cheering you on will 
 start to sing along with the song. Rock Band is full of little moments that make this experience 
 worth while.
  
  It may be a year old game, but Rock Band is truly the king of music rhythm games. The soundtrack 
 is diverse, with catchy numbers, and a back catalog that is updated weekly with several new tracks, 
 Rock Band is a sound investment for anyone interested in music, or music styled games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  I remember first hearing about Rock Band on an Official Xbox Magazine podcast while riding a bus. 
 Taking the concept of Guitar Hero, and then expanding it with vocals, bass, and drums sounded great 
 at the time, but when the game came out, it ended up being awesome and revolutionary to videogames! 
 Instead of simply playing guitar by yourself, you really feel like you're in a complete band! But 
 even if you only own a guitar (like me) , you'll still get a lot of enjoyment out of it. The game 
 focuses on two main modes - Solo Career, and Band World Tour. The Solo Career (which supports guitar, 
 vocals, and drums) is just like Guitar Hero. You start with a set list, and once you complete it, 
 you move on to the next harder one. Solo mode isn't that hard and won't take much time to complete, 
 but when you can't have friends over or your siblings are out of the house, this mode is still 
 great to play. But when you can have at least one other buddy with you, this game changes much 
 more than you would expect. (And it's for the better!) Band World Tour allows 2-4 people to form 
 a band as you travel across the country (and eventually the world) playing songs for crowds at 
 clubs and stadiums. World Tour mode focuses on how many fans you have. The more fans, the better 
 and you'll unlock new venues to play at along with money to buy new instruments. In terms of how 
 you play the game, guitar, bass, and drums are set up exactly like Guitar Hero with the only difference 
 being that the drum's note colors are in a different order. The vocals on the other hand are set 
 up like Singstar. I played this game using the Xbox 360 Gibson Explorer guitar controller and the 
 Xbox headset for vocals, so I can't really say anything about the instruments. (Although I've heard 
 that GHIV's are better.) Rock Band also features online which you can play by yourself or with 
 a band. But band mode is limited to quick play and there's no online World Tour. (Although it IS 
 in Rock Band 2!) All in all, Rock Band is an excellent music game that anybody can enjoy and is 
 something you'll play for a long, long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkipower
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  This has been a very long wait for Australian gamers like myself, but I am easily not disappointed 
 with the game, but I am with the instruments. Ok, let's start off with the songs. This is exactly 
 why I love this game, all the songs rock! It features famous bands such as Iron Maiden, Deep Purple, 
 Metallica, Smashing Pumpkins and many more. At the moment, the game has under 350 songs to download 
 online and all at a very great price, if you are going to get this game, make sure you have XBOX 
 live to download all your favourite songs so your rock band experience does not go dull, mine wont 
 because i bought Avenged Sevenfold and Machine Head, my favourite bands in the world. The difficulty 
 is very good, easy is easy (well to some people) medium is medium and so and so, real drum players 
 should be able to play the game on expert after a few tries, I was able to pick up expert in the 
 second hour playing this. Ok now the instruments. The guitar is a Fender and looks pretty sweet. 
 But sadly not as good as it looks. The strum bar is big and does not click when you strum, to me 
 it feels like it's very stiff. The buttons are wide apart and loud when you press them. But if 
 you have trouble with this you can use the smaller buttons down the guitar to play instead, but 
 this is very annoying for people that have big hands. If you liked the Guitar Hero guitar, you 
 are probably going to hate this one, I was disappointed I bought this when I could of used my guitar 
 hero guitar. The mic is not bad, it has a good weight to it, a very long cord and it does feel 
 like a real mic. But there have been reports of mics not responding to the words you say. Now the 
 drumset. Its well...... a bit more than mediocre. The pads are loud! But do have an Ok rebound 
 from it. The bass pedal is hard to press and now that i have played the game for a while my bass 
 pedal is really squeaky. People been saying their bass pedals snapped. Since the game has been 
 delayed in Australia for a whole year, hopefully Harmonix improved the instruments. So at the bottom 
 line this game will keep me occupied for ages, but only on the drums. The game is only very fun 
 with friends, if you do not have much friends over, you can play people online, but having friends 
 over is alot more fun then playing with a bunch of strangers. This game is very fun and recommended 
 for almost anybody.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anton10000
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Harmonix, the former developers of the Guitar Hero series, left their publisher, Red Octane, for 
 greener pastures. Now partnered with EA and MTV Games, Harmonix set out to make the ultimate rhythm 
 game, and for all intents and purposes, they succeeded.
  
  Unlike Guitar Hero, Rock Band allows you to play not only lead guitar, but also bass, drums and 
 vocals both simultaneously and separately, and thanks to all these brand new elements, the game 
 feels much, much fresher than Guitar Hero III did. 
  
  Both lead and bass guitars play almost exactly the same as the Guitar Hero games. You can use the 
 same guitar controllers in order to strum along with the technicolour barrage. A few little improvements 
 have been made however to make the gameplay more streamlined. When you've activated star power, 
 you can still collect more star power instead of having it whitewashed along with all the other 
 notes, and missing what could be valuable star power in those harder sections.
  
  Hammer ons and pull offs have been made far easier to perform thanks to the notes which you can 
 do them on being slightly smaller than the usual notes, and thus stick out more than the small 
 white circles on top of the notes used in Guitar Hero. Aside from those minor changes, the rest 
 has stayed the same, but this time around the note charts are fun in all but one or two of the 
 58 songs you get on the disk, so while you may hate the song, or the band that perform it, you'll 
 have to admit its fun to play.
  
  One of the two new additions to the formula are the epic, and quite pricy, drums. For about 70, 
 you pretty much get your own drum kit. The kit consists of four coloured pads, a kick pedal and 
 a stand. Just as with the guitars, you'll have to bash the pads in time with the coloured notes 
 that rush down the screen. The drums are by far the hardest of all the instruments, as not only 
 does it require far more physical exertion, but also the hand eye co-ordination needed to succeed 
 is vast, and the constant use of the kick pedal is tough to keep up, and so even the Easy difficulty 
 level can be quite a challenge. The red pad, which is the one furthest to the left, sometimes suffers 
 from problems registering hits. This is a rare occurrence, but becomes quickly frustrating due 
 to the level of perfection needed when playing the drums. Being able to finally play the drums 
 allows you to really enter the constant rhythm of the song you're playing, and thus connecting 
 with it more and learning it inside out.
  
  The last facet of the game, and the second new one, is the vocals. Playing a lot like the Singstar 
 series, you're given lyrics with scrolling lines above them, denoting what octave you have to sing 
 in. You don't have to be in the right key, so if you can't sing, but know the songs like the back 
 of your own hand, then you'll have no problem, as you'll know how they should be sung. A little 
 warning through: invest in a USB microphone. If you're forced to rely on a 360 headset, it is far 
 more difficult, to the point of near impossibility, due to the fact that the headset simply isn't 
 able to read pitches very well, and while you may be hitting the right notes, it just won't realise 
 that, and by the time you're hitting the Hard difficulty level and you'll quickly become frustrated. 
 While it may lack the music videos playing in the background when compared to Singstar, Rock Band 
 wins with the huge arenas which you sing in, making you get even closer to that dream of being 
 a real rock star.
  
  All these aspects of the game on their own are fantastic to play through, but what makes Rock Band 
 really special is what happens when you combine all four parts together to form your very own rock 
 band. It's difficult to explain, but when everyone playing in harmony it does create a great energy 
 and this co-operation does really bring you together as a group. Harmonix have allowed for band 
 mates to save other band mates who have failed out of the song, and this is an excellent inclusion, 
 as completely new players will not be chastised by the rest of the band for failing. One minor 
 complaint about this setup is that Band World Tour, which acts as the games co-op mode, can't be 
 played online, meaning you'll have to have everyone there in order to play through it, but when 
 the game is so based around the experience of having people play together in one space, it's somewhat 
 understandable. If you're in need of competitive multiplayer, it is present, and you'll have the 
 full array of tug-of-war and score battles to play both off and online. 
  
  Rock Band has gone for its own style in order to differentiate itself from the Guitar Hero games. 
 Gone is all the clutter around the note table, and all there is now are very clean and simple little 
 counters and bars denoting life and star power, points, and for the first time, how many stars 
 you have got so far in the song, which really does help when you're trying to improve your scores. 
 
  
  The characters are also quite different from those seen in the Guitar Hero games, most likely due 
 to licensing issues with the cast from Guitar Hero. Your computer band mates who play along with 
 you are now far more realistic than how they were before. Not only do they look much more lifelike, 
 but they also animate far more realistically, which makes quite a difference to Guitar Hero's very 
 stiff and muppet like movements. If you're playing vocals, there are a few video problems however. 
 Sometimes you may clip in and out of band mates and this detracts from the illusion. Also, one 
 moment you may be crowd surfing, the next you'll be on the stage singing, which further detracts 
 from the experience, as the editing lacks cohesion. 
  
  It also must be noted that there are some slight interface issues. The Quickplay list is a mess, 
 and the sorting options are dreadful, so finding a song you just want to play once again before 
 bed is a chore. Band World Tour could have also done with a bit of tightening up, but the slightly 
 ragged organization of the various gigs does lend itself to a "one more go" feel. These, just as 
 with all the other problems in Rock Band are minute when compared to the experience the rest of 
 the game offers.
  
  Of course, a rhythm game is only ever as good as its soundtrack, and Rock Band can easily be considered 
 to have the best soundtrack out of any modern rhythm game, easily trouncing that seen in Guitar 
 Hero III. While Rock Band only has a few more songs in the main set list than GHIII, it is in the 
 variety of songs in which Rock Band succeeds. While the Guitar Hero franchise has always leant 
 towards the hard and classical rock, Rock Band goes on an all out assault to try and capture as 
 many genres as possible. Hard rock, classical rock, pop rock, grunge, alternate, electronic, prog 
 and many others are included, and thus regardless of what you're into, you're bound to find something 
 you like. Rock Band also has many firsts over Guitar Hero in terms of bands. Nine Inch Nails, Hole, 
 Garbage, the Yeah Yeah Yeahs and a myriad of other well known bands are making their debut in Rock 
 Band, and thus Rock Band simply has a far better selection than can be found in any Guitar Hero 
 game. There are however a few songs which feature both in Rock Band and Guitar Hero III, but songs 
 like "Cherub Rock" and "Sabotage" are much more fun to play in Rock Band due to more thought being 
 put into their note tables. 
  
  If you're connected to Xbox Live, then you can also purchase new songs from a vast library of extra 
 songs. New songs are added every week, and there are even whole albums available. What Harmonix 
 have cleverly done is made sure to only have one song from each band on the disk, so if you say, 
 despise Nine Inch Nails, which I know a lot of people do, you only have to play "The Hand that 
 feeds". If you however love Nine Inch Nails, then you can choose from a selection of some of their 
 best songs, and thus you can slowly expand and tailor your library to how you want it. 
  
  Closing comments: Rock Band does have a few minor problems, which I am more than happy to accept 
 to just have another fix straight into my veins. Due to the far more reasonable and enjoyable note 
 tables done for all the songs, there are only really a couple of songs which are a pain to have 
 to play through. Compare that to all the times you've been forced to play through junk in the Guitar 
 Hero games. 
  
  I also hold Rock Band in a special place due to the fact that I have got into so many new bands 
 thanks to it, and so my taste in music has been irreversibly changed, but most definitely for the 
 best. Everything with Rock Band just works, and it is simply a very fluid, well made game, and 
 every part of the game comes together to make what is epitome of the rhythm genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitar-Kid-666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band takes all the elements from the famous Guitar Hero series, and adds the ability to sing, 
 play drums, and play bass guitar. You can play multiplayer with up to four people (you and three 
 friends) . Some say the guitar on Expert is like Guitar Hero's Hard, but I find them both to be 
 different in their own way.
  
  The soundtrack is really cool, minus a couple of songs here and there that are just utter garbage. 
 You are able to download songs and play them on each instrument in the game on every difficulty 
 level, although they require purchasing MS points.
  
  In my opinion, Rock Band has nicer gameplay and graphics than Guitar Hero's does. I like the effects 
 and the interactions and scenery, etc. better in this. It seems a bit more realistic, instead of 
 how when in GH you activate star power and the guitarist isn't even touching the guitar, yet still 
 playing.
  
  What can I say? I'm addicted to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patMANpv
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  If you have two or three friends to play with, this game is as good and as fun as it gets. Anyone 
 who has ever dreamed of playing in a rock band will find this game absolutely enthralling. This 
 game has a ton of great songs and has enough variety that almost everyone will find a song they 
 love and will play over and over again.
  
  The guitar aspect is almost identical as Guitar Hero. However, the actual guitar is much better 
 in my opinion. The addition of the second set of fret buttons at the bottom of the fret board is 
 ingenious. And the jam out sections at the end of many of the songs is great, and using a Guitar 
 Hero guitar makes it not quite as fun.
  
  The vocal aspect of this game is great as well, combining Karaoke Revolution style vocal measuring 
 with a new innovative technology that aims to make sure you are saying the correct words. For a 
 real challenge, get a mic stand and try singing and playing guitar at the same time. Unless you 
 know the words, this is very difficult.
  
  I find the drums very difficult, I can only play on easy and medium for some of the easier songs. 
 However, I have friends who can play the drums fairly well, but I have yet to meet anyone who can 
 play drums on Hard.
  
  If you have friends that are around a lot and would get into this game with you, this game is amazing. 
 The single player is fun, just not quite the same as the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin-2-5-9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Rock band is a rhythm game developed by Harmonix. This is the first game Harmonix have made after 
 departing from making the guitar hero series which is currently being made by Tony Hawk creators 
 "Neversoft".
  
  The gameplay is in a way similar to guitar hero, you will still have your guitar with 5 fret buttons 
 and a strummer however this time a few new elements have been added. You still have to do your 
 tiers, this time they have been replaced with venues you play at. The big wow to this game is the 
 fact that drums and a microphone have been added.
  
  So, the guitar works the same was as guitar hero. The microphone is like karaoke where you have 
 to sing at a certain note, your octaves do not matter it is just the note and on occasion you tap 
 it to do tambourine parts. The drums are new as there has never been a drum game local on the market 
 (Drummania was the first drum game, however it was arcade) . They consist of 4 different colour 
 pads and a bass pedal which can be so fun. You play it a bit like the guitar, having to hit the 
 notes in time. 
  
  Playing solo can be extremly boring after completing all the songs, however when you get all your 
 friends together and play something amazing happens, it is such a great game with friends. So, 
 there is a solo mode, and there is a band mode. They both run similar to career from Guitar hero 
 however the band world tour has either 2 - 4 players playing through the career which is amazing 
 fun. The only downside is that it can not be online and has got to be local gameplay. So if you 
 are like me and you cannot find people to play along with then the game will get stale.
  
  So, with that said this game sounds truley amazing however wait there a second. The intruments 
 let the game down, and I shall run through what.
  
  Drums: I never played on the drums a lot but they do feel tough and reliable however the bass pedal 
 can snap like a twig on you. So you will have to go very gentle on it. The guitar feels good, however 
 if you used the les paul a lot it is best sticking to it as you might not like the Stratocaster 
 bundled with the game. It works fine you just might not like the feel to it. Now the microphone 
 is a big issue, your Xbox live headset is compatible with it however it works horrendously. It 
 changes your pitch constantly and it is hard to hold a single pitch note for a period of time.
 
  
  Overall. This has to be one of the hardest games I have had to judge, I have never gone to an average 
 rating before but I am going to now.
  
  Presentation: The camera is neat and the stage action is good. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Nothing special, 
 but you are going to be more focused on the note chart rather than the background. 8/10
  
  Sound: I did not reconise a lot of music on the disc at first, however I got to like a few new 
 bands by this game. A bit more popular music could be welcome, also without any fall out boy could 
 have been gratefully welcome. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: Fun, however online band tours could have been welcome here. After beating solo mode 
 the game can get boring and stale, thankfully the game has a huge DLC libary. 8/10
  
  Overall (based on 4 marks) . 8.25. Rounding off to 8.5. 
  
  If band tours on Xbox Live were 
 here, a bit better soundtrack and more to do after beating solo mode then I would say this is worthy 
 of a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maidendude71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  An awesome game thats let you and your mates play for endless hours. Good songs to headband and 
 rock out too plus there are drums! Story mode is a good touch, you can make your on setlists. If 
 you're setting up a party and it blows then just turn on your XBOX 360 and plug in Rock Band thats 
 bound to get the party started or just base the party around Rock Band, either way it'll be a blast! 
 It has great graphics and is average for achievements. Good way to practice your drumming and whatever 
 style of rock you like, trust me it'll be on there! To be honest I wouldn't and buy this now, I 
 would way to November 14th 2008 and get Rock Band 2 which has 80+ songs on disc and is this but 
 improved! So are you stuck on what to get a mate/child/sibling etc.. for christmas then just look 
 at Rock Band 2. Price, you ask? $179.99 which is about 90, which isn't that bad. You definetly 
 get your moneys worth.
  9.5/10 and worth buying... November 14th 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ServingUpSmiles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Best game EVER, some minor problems i admit, but still spectacular! Harmonix Perfected the difficulty, 
 song choice, Graphics, and instruments (but i admit the drums kinda suck) . And the online play couldn't 
 be better!, great job, and the singing is kinda hard on expert though (same thing with the drums 
 too, but hard isn't too easy or too hard!) , and the guitar is awesome! except for the really long 
 whammy bar, but it doesn't work very good on massive tv's like mine (the lag) , and the prices for 
 the buyable songs are not cheap, but way cheaper than the guitar hero 3 songs, and i think that 
 it's a great idea, to be able to pay with your microsoft points, and by the way, congrats about 
 the rock band 2 harmonix, it really really really really really awsome! i like it even better than 
 the first one! oh one more thing, guitar hero world tour COPIES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and i am sooooooooooooooooooooooo 
 glad that konami made rock revolution and not you guys! it sucks! i would of been so let down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: villihamson
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  I got this game a couple months ago and just been playing guitar for ages and i still haven't got 
 tired of it. Now i got the drums my friends are coming round all the time for band world tour. 
 it hasn't gone the way of guitar hero with the extremely hard songs that take you hours of practice, 
 but when i want a real challenge i go to guitar hero 3 because rock band just isn't for the 'hardcore' 
 guitar hero gamer. Which is why i am split between guitar hero world tour and RB 2, can't get both 
 so it'll have to come down to which game will be worth it in the long run, will rock band 2 be 
 the same as 1 but with different songs, or will guitar hero world tour change to compete with rock 
 band 2? 
  i'll have to wait and see but if both games don't live up the the hype then i will be severly dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldaman321
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  the hype about guitar hero simply cannot surpass the power and attractivness of the newest and 
 most revolutionary game on earth rockband with more instruments and songs plus the microphone (kareoke 
 anyone) if you have a tight schedule this game is not for you but the best time to get this is when 
 your not in college and still living with your mom but keep in mind that when you do work and all 
 that you can find a way to restain yourself but remember THIS IS REAL AND THERE ARE NOT ANY NEGOTIATIONS 
 DEADLINES OR SPECIFICDAYS YOU HAVE TO ROCK YOU HAVE COMPLETE CONTROL so good luck and  
  
 o o
  A
  l l
  -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Alright. So, I've played Guitar Hero 2 and 3, so (with my background knowledge) I figured that 
 Rock Band would be just as great. Sure enough, I guessed right. 
  Good: The song list is fantastic, and the difficulty in the general game is just right; not completely 
 impossible, yet not  The main attraction, though, was the ability 
 to use all four main rock band instruments (*DRUMS*, bass, guitar and *VOCALS*) . As well, the warranty 
 makes me feel a lot better about giving my all in the game. :D
  
  Bad: As was the case with many consumers, the equipment breaks frequently. Despite the warranty, 
 it's a pain to have stuff break on you and wait the whole 4-6 weeks to get your new stuff in.
 
  *TO NOTE ON ACCESSORIES*, I did buy the drum silencers to, as the package stated, lessen the noise 
 produced by my hits and create a slightly better rebound. I was sorely disappointed. I had ripped 
 the package open, stuck the pads on the drums, and tried playing a song with them on. Sure, it 
 serves its purpose fantastically; but I couldn't hit barely half the notes I tried at because they 
 were too thick to get a proper hit through. Those pads were preventing me from playing the game 
 properly, so they were a complete waste of 20 bucks...*sigh*
  
  Apart from my rant about the drum silencers, Rock Band is fantastic. Just don't buy the drum silencers, 
 whatever you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daman12369
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a great game that has a lot to offer people. So lets start with the good. 1st the 
 music list is great and a lot more diverse than Guitar Hero, and its not about the heavy rock either. 
 The songs are very mixed with some alternative, rock, and some things in between. And playing with 
 friends is the best part, especially if you have 4 people to play with. Also Rock Band is very 
 easy compared to Guitar Hero. Now that doesn't mean it isn't challenging, because it is. See the 
 Guitar is pretty easy, and the expert mode will give you a challenge. The singing takes a while 
 to get use to, but it is a challenge. The drums however is a real challenge. Even on easy the drums 
 can be very hard, and on expert mode you are playing the drums just like the pro's. And anyone 
 has the Achievement for beating the Drums on expert, should be praised as a god. 
  
  Now the bad. All the instruments have to be plugged into the Xbox, however they give you USB adopter 
 so you can have all the instruments in at once. The microphone and drums work well and have no 
 real problems, except that the mic can break real easy, and the kick pedal on the drums isn't very 
 durable. Now the guitar is another story. The guitar sucks. 1st the fret buttons are to close together. 
 And the guitar feels to big. 
  
  All-In-All Rock Band is really good, it has a lot to offer. Great music, also there is a lot of 
 downloadable content, aka great music. It is also a great part game. In my opinion if you have 
 Guitar Hero 3 or Areosmith, than use toughs guitars and dont buy the full package. Also your Xbox 
 Live mic that comes with the console can be used as a mic for Rock Band, and it works great. If 
 you want the drums really bad, than buy them separately. In fact the drums are about $50, and the 
 game $60, so buying them separately actually saves you money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bd0g5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is probably the best rhythm game, and one of the best multiplayer games out there.
  There are four different instruments. They are: Lead guitar, Bass, Drums, and Vocals.
  
  For 
 each instrument (except Bass) , you get to do a solo career. It's much like the Guitar Hero series. 
 
  
  Of course, you play solo alone, but if you have friends over, There's a new mode. World Tour. In 
 the World Tour mode, 
  you NEED two or more people to play.
  
  There are four difficulty levels, easy, medium, hard, and expert. 
  
  One really cool thing 
 about Rock Band is that there are A LOT of songs! There are over 200 songs available for
  download, and they keep adding them! If you buy a lot of songs, you can transfer them to Rock Band 
 2!
  
  Rock Band is a very fun, it can keep you busy for a very long time. Since you can play with up 
 to 3 other friends, 
  that makes this game so awesome...
  
  So, i give Rock Band a 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielnault333
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I been playing this game for a wild, and never i will be tired to play it again, 'cause they put 
 so much downloads songs availables on xbox live market
  
  i actually bought like 100 songs on the market, they add a lot of good stuffs, like more punk and 
 heavy metal songs, so they totally blow up the competition between this game and guitar hero series 
 release yet !
  
  try to get rock band 2 !! its alredy release, but hard to find for fews cities !! the set list 
 is incredible !! they but all type of excellant music;
  
  this is the game for real music fan !!
  
  i suggest to buy all the heavy metal and punk bands 
 packs or songs, because they harder and better to play
  
  like thoses bands songs;
  
  disturbed
  all that remains
  metallica
  iron maiden
  system of a down
  serj tankian
 
  judas priest
  red hot chili peppers
  the offsprings
  the smashings punkings
  airborne
  black sabbath
  testament
  motley crue
  avenged senvenfold...
  
  few good 
 things good to know;
  
  you can use guitar hero guit. on rock band !
  
  you can upload almost all your songs (included the downloads songs) on the rock band 2
  
  rock 
 band 2 instument will be compatible with guitar hero world tour
  
  so much song's comming every weeks !!...
  
  i suggest to dont loose your time, and try to get 
 rock band 2 !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylewpg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is great the gameplay is fun . First is guitar. Its like guitar hero but most of the 
 songs are easyer. The hammer ons and pull offs arnt as good as guitar heros are but it still works. 
 The guitar that comes with rock band is the best guitar i seen for a video game. Overall Guitar 
 Is Fun.
  
  Microphone.
  Its built great just like a real mic. Its fun to use the singing gameplay is perfect you gotta 
 macth the right picth to the song. Its fun and its pretty damn hard to do.
  
  Drums.
  Heres the games best part the drums are simply the best part about the game. They are built great. 
 The drums game play is hard but after a few days you will get a hang of it. Drums simply awesome.
 
  
  Now the soundtrack in the game is ok. Most of the songs are great but some really suck. But DLC 
 is really good alot of great songs you can download for rock band.
  
  I have alot of fun with this game i cant wait for ROCK BAND 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarryTipper86
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is music puzzle game that is all about skill, not brains. Rock Band features character 
 creation and single or multiplay world tours. The story mode: World Tour is a way to get new items 
 and money. With or without a friend you can just go to the world tour and play gigs. To my opinion, 
 the story is boring because it's just playing around the world. The graphics however is much better 
 than the story. The graphics on the character models are great and the instruments are glamerous. 
 The gameplay is breaken down in 3 ways. The first one, the guitar is the easiest to me. You hold 
 the colored buttons and stum as a note crosses the marker. The drum is just like the guitar exept 
 you use drum sticks and a foot pedal. The singer uses a microphone and sing to the music. You can 
 have a forth play, the bass, but it's the just like guitar exept easier. Each of the instruments 
 have an overdrive mode. When you have your energy meter half-full, you could use overdrive and 
 double the score multiplier and gain more "health". The enjoyment was great, but only at parties. 
 I don't do World Tour, I just use the all song cheat and go to quickplay. At parties, this is the 
 best Xbox 360 game. The problem is setting it up and cleaning it up.
  
  Story- 7
  Graphics- 9
  Gameplay- 9
  Enjoyment- 10 (WOW)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overseer677
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  This is a great game if you have friends outside your xbl friends list. we all graouped toegther 
 and slpit the cost so it wasnt that much in the end. However it does cost alot with the band. All 
 the instruments are fun to play exp the drums and guitars, we had a full band for most of the play 
 time we had and it was worth the money, however the lasting appeal isnt very good unless you dont 
 have a job and/or a gf/bf. 
  
  I wanted to get the drums for myself as its quite fun the bash the hell out of them, they last 
 a while but are loud, we had to get the sofeners for the drum because it was too loud. 
  
  However this game as with most 360 games is annoying because of the accounts u have to use. we 
 would spend half an hour sorting out whos account goes with what. and once u start a band your 
 account is linked to the instruments u used at the start. which is annoying when u want to try 
 outall the others and get the achievements for them. we made do though. but again.... the band 
 is linked to the band leader at the time as well and there were a few times where we restarted 
 to 360 to get it sorted, which is annoying if you just ccame over to play a quite bash on the career 
 with your friends.
  
  So, if ur on your own dont get it, becuase it will be outdtated soon enough, and if u really want 
 it wait till it gets cheaper after the sequeals come out or get it with friends and have alot of 
 fun with it. 
  
  Its definatly worth trying!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EdHeadZ
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  When I saw Rock Band I thought "With Guitar Hero, this won't be competition". Well, I was absolutely 
 wrong! Rock Band got very popular and very fun. Rock Band is a rhythm game where you can "rock" 
 to different rock genre songs. Adding vocals, bass and drums to the mix along with the orginal 
 guitar, many, many more people got attracted to the game. Controls are very basic and easy to catch 
 on. The songs list is great. Including songs you know and don't know, not to mention the songs 
 you can get online. You'll still have fun alone but, you get more kick out of play with a friend 
 or two, online and off. You can make your rocker, rock the world, and have the best time with it. 
 
  
  Bottom Line: You like music? Buy it. If not, still buy it! You will have a great time with the 
 game. So ROCK ON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  This is the best music game that have realesed so far.
  If you don't have it you must get it it is the best.
  So many options to choose between from 
 singel player to band play or online or sing and play drums and be a guitarist and a basist.
  
  Rock band is a multiplayer game or a singel player game.
  Multiplayer: on multiplayer you 
 can play a world tour with your band or just play a son in quickplay and quickplay can also be 
 played in xbox live or a tug of war ot a score duel (both on and off line)
  Singelplayer: play drums, guitar or base or sing if you wan't.
  Evry instrument have a tour mode 
 but not base.
  so you can actually play base just in quickplay.
  compare your tour score in leder boards get a rank online in tug of war or score duel.
  
  the 
 game got evry thing you wan't if you are a music fan like me.
  better than guitar hero what i think but we don't know yet what guitar hero world tour got
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyJordan
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  A brilliant addition to the music rhythm genre!
  
  There are songs in this game that will push you to the limits of your skills. A little tip for 
 the drums. It helps a lot in this game if you've played real drums before. All the best drummers 
 in this game have had years of experience on real drums, so they come fully loaded for this game!
 
  
  A lot of people have been knocking the guitar section of this game for being too simple. They couldn't 
 be more wrong. There are songs in this game that will make Guitar Hero II look like a walk in the 
 park! "Green Grass and High Tides" is the perfect example. Two of the hardest solos in the entire 
 game. It's a 9+ minute constant thrashing of the frets! Respect to you if you've completed it on 
 Expert with the Stratocaster!
  
  The singing is brilliant as well. Harmonix have brought their experience from the Karaoke Revolution 
 series into Rock Band, and it shows here.
  
  In short, this is the best 360 game of the year so far!
  
  In America, the Rock Band instruments 
 were widely criticised for being cheaply made, and broke easily. It looks like they've learnt their 
 lesson now, and I'm glad they've made us wait so long for this game, as we haven't been lumbered 
 with instruments of the same quality.
  
  The Stratocaster is brilliantly made, and I'm glad that the strum bar doesn't click. The only beefs 
 I have with it are the frets for one. It's quite easy at times to accidentally press down on one 
 of them when you're holding onto the side of it. You have to develop a new playing style when playing 
 with this guitar. The solo frets are a bit small as well, but it's more realistic that way. A lot 
 of people have complained about the whammy bar. I don't know why, because it's brilliant! It's 
 very responsive, and it's long, so it's easy to get to. The other beef I have about this guitar 
 is the Start/Back buttons. They've very cheap, and not easy to press. They're both big, and the 
 Back button is close to the whammy bar, so that makes it easier to activate Overdrive if you plan 
 to squeeze. It's just not got the best response. Half the time with me, it doesn't recognise the 
 press. You have to press straight down on it to get it to work perfectly. This isn't as easy, when 
 you're playing, and most of the time you'll end up hitting it at an angle, as you're in a hurry 
 to get it activated.
  
  This is the only real problem about it, though. The guitar is very realistic-looking, it's designed 
 with left-handed players in mind (I'm right-handed, but it's good to see them remember the lefties) , 
 and it feels what it's worth.
  
  The drums are excellent! A lot of people in America complained that they were unresponsive, cheap, 
 it wouldn't recognise fast roll hits all the time, and that the bass pedal usually breaks in half. 
 I haven't come across any of these problems so far with my kit.
  
  The microphone is brilliant too. Harmonix have had plenty of experience in this field before with 
 the Karaoke Revolution series, and it's paid off in Rock Band. The microphone is great quality. 
 It's also very tough, so no need to worry about dropping it.
  
  Overall, Harmonix and EA have learnt their lessons from the American release, and have managed 
 to provide us with top quality controllers that are worth the high price they are charging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robtats94
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  When i first got the game i wasn't expecting much but after playing it for an hour i couldn't put 
 my guitar down. After playing guitar hero 2 and 3 i fought nothing could compete with them but 
 i was way wrong rock band wiped the floor with guitar hero 1, 2 and 3.
  If Rock band two is as good as the first rock band, guitar hero 4 is going to have to be pretty 
 good. I just wish that there was more songs that i like in the rock band and guitar hero series 
 like stairay to heaven, november rain with awsome guitar solos by slash and eruption by van halen 
 and not dragonforce with there fast paced **** which sound like a satanic rave.
  
  hehehehehe!!!
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgranda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  After shredding away at GHII and GHIII for months and months when I finally shelled out the cash 
 for this monster I knew I had found what I was looking for. This game has all the songs you could 
 want plus a HUGE library of down loadable content. Difficulty level makes it accessible to all 
 players and the multiple instrument make is a game that has a party feel and less of a geeky feel. 
 practice mode is much more helpful that what GH offers and the tutorials I felt better prepared 
 you for all of the different challenges that game throws at you. I particularly like how when you 
 download content it is automatically integrated into the World Tour game. CAUTION: Think twice 
 before downloading the Metallica Pack! Whoa Nelly :-)
  The largest issues I had with this game were that once you joined a band you are glued to your 
 instrument and could not change it and not solo tour for bass lovers pity that one. All in all 
 a great game providing hours of fun for the whole crew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satanwershipsme
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I was surprise when i played this game. I got the game for x-mas. The game was all right but the 
 equipment was crap. early when i got the game the guitar was breaking. Don't get me wrong it was 
 a new thing for the controller and it looked amazing. Then the drums started to break. the drum 
 pedal was hard as hell to push. After a few times of playing the drum I got sick of it. The klacking 
 of the sticks drove me up the friging wall. Man I sure hope that Rock Band 2 Will be better. Overall 
 the game was great hundred's of song were on it that new of. But the baddest part of the the bundle 
 was the fact that there were poppy song in the game. I mean come on the is call Rock Band right 
 not pop group you know what I mean. But in the end i give it a 8 because it was a new type of game 
 was not seen before. But I'll stick to my actual drum set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Compliments:
  -Four Games In One
  -Fantastic Visuals
  -Almost Perfect Difficulty Level 
  -Possibly The Best Multiplayer Game
  
  Complaints:
  
 -Hefty Price Tag
  -Some Hardware Issues
  -Band World Tour Can Get Insanely Repetitive
  
  
  Rock band developed by Harmonix and published by EA is the best music game to date. The 
 now long running Guitar Hero franchise taught us that basics of rocking, but rock band ascends 
 that and gives players a whole band experience. 
  
  Rock band not only features guitar, but also bass guitar, drums, and vocals. Essentially 4 games 
 in one when playing rock band you are sure to find something you like.
  
  The main mode of play in rock band is the band world tour. Here you and up to 4 other friends can 
 rock out over a career that surpasses 30+ hours of gameplay. Your band travels around the world 
 completing gigs that sometimes can contain 13 songs or more per gig, sometimes resulting in rock 
 band marathon sessions. There is also an endless setlist to complete but beware it will equal 6 
 hours of playing straight without saving, and in all likelihood causing headaches and seizures. 
 There are hundreds of songs to play in band world tour, but this is the problem with it. You will 
 no doubt play "Say It Ain't So" and "In Bloom" at least 25-50 times each along with many other 
 songs. Getting near the end of band world tour felt like a grind and took some fun out of the game.
 
  
  Besides the band world tour there are solo tours for each of the instruments except bass. The tours 
 are similar to that of guitar hero, and you just play every song broken up into tiers. With four 
 difficulties and 4 instruments combined with the band world tour there is a lot of depth here, 
 but beware the game will get boring. 
  
  Two other problems with the game are faulty hardware and a hefty price tag. When I first bought 
 rock band I had to return it to the store that same day due to a broken guitar and microphone. 
 The second package I got has been much better and all of the instruments still play great to this 
 day, but they surly are not built with durability in mind. The second complaint is that the game 
 will put a hefty dent in your wallet due to a retail price of 169.99$. You can buy the game and 
 instruments separate, but it is cheaper to just get the packaged deal.
  
  Overall Rock Band is my favorite music game and will keep you occupied for a long time thanks to 
 a lot of depth and download content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Almorac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is another in a long line of (yet another of the most cliche and overly used lines of 
 text you will ever seen in a review) rhythym games in which you and varying plastic instruments 
 hug eachother and enter a grind of slapping, screaming, and a familiar up and down motion that 
 men will be more than familiar with.
  
  The selling point for Rock Band is the fact that like Guitar Hero, you'll be having a plastic lovefest 
 with a plastic guitar that looks just like a real guitar if it had buttons instead of frets, a 
 strange device that goes up and down, a START and SELECT button, a D-Pad, a whammy bar (Oh wait... 
 Real guitars have those don't they?) , and a button with a large green 'x' on it. But that's not 
 all! Yes that's right folks, Rock Band has something Guitar Hero doesn't have (yet...) ! In addition 
 to having a very fake looking guitar, Rock Band comes with (assuming you bought the full version 
 of it and not a single-instrument version) a set of extremely fake drum pads, and a microphone 
 with an unnecessarily long cord (in contrast to the short-corded Guitar and Drums) .
  
  I've devoted this paragraph to telling you why Rock Band sucks in three sentences (this first one 
 firmly exclaims that there are aspects of this game that make you want to break your instruments) . 
 The fakestruments themselves have a tendancy to break in the middle of a song (remember when I 
 said that there were aspects of this game that make you want to break your instrments? I lied, 
 because they'll break anyhow) , starting with your drum's bass pedal which should be broken and 
 replaced VERY frequently, and ending with your guitar's strummer being inactive in one or two directions. 
 The last reason that this game is frustrating is that even after calibrating your instruments to 
 your television so that you slam your real drumsticks (that's right, the sticks, although EXTREMELY 
 cheap even in drumstick terms as they generally cost five bucks for a pair, are actually real sticks 
 and not made of plastic or some such material. The sticks are made of wood and thus if you hit 
 your guitarist for playing terribly which I guarantee he will, he will scream and writhe on the 
 floor and agony. For the sake of preserving life I suggest you find another form of torture) and 
 sing your words into your very real looking microphone and do that familiar motion that men are 
 well acquainted with, the game's engine itself tends to register fast notes poorly.
  Now I should inform you all that the fakestruments for Rock Band may not be as pathetic and weak 
 as they were in the past as precautions may have been taking to fix those issues and in any case 
 all instruments have a warranty that allows you to exchange broken instruments (assuming natural 
 wear and tear or issues in production caused the breakage) for soon-to-be-broken instruments. As 
 well as to go into the issues with the game engine a little more, the drums are where you'll notice 
 this the most and be frustrated easily as drummers will often have to do what drummers refer to 
 as, "rolls," which are marked by a lot of red notes VERY close together that you will be unable 
 to hit as the red drum pad does not have the sensitivity required to ACTUALLY play them (I'm not 
 just saying that because I'm incapalbe. This really is true) .
  
  However, with issues of breaking and poor registering aside, Rock Band has a vast list of songs 
 that port with the game, and sit idly in the marketplace. Rock Band has over one-hundred different 
 songs to purchase on the Xbox Live marketplace belonging to bands that you've probably heard of 
 like Rush, The Grateful Dead, Metallica, and many other different bands. If you have the willingness 
 to spend money on buying the songs you like you'll find yourself enjoying vast amounts of different 
 songs over and over again.
  
  Normally a reviewer would explain lots of positive factors about this game but the issue with that, 
 is simply this: the best way to tell you what's so good about this game is to explain what's bad 
 about it. Rock Band is plagued with only one immense and serious issue of broken plastic which 
 can be easily rectified by sending your broken pride off to be replaced with a new one. Just as 
 well, the game hands hundreds of songs to download (for a price, obviously) and play on vocals, 
 drums, bass, and guitar at the various difficulties from Very Easy to Expert. You can vastly customize 
 your character to make him look pretty unique (it's hard to EVER find two characters that look 
 alike) with different styles of hair and clothing as well as choosing his instrument (Guitars have 
 tons of options, microphones considerably less, drums I'd say at least ten different sets of different 
 colors) . You can form your own band with your friends and do World Tour mode which is fun (despite 
 the constant repeats in song) and engaging to participate in whilst you earn achievements and the 
 like and gain money and fans. Rock Band also allows you to loiter around online with friends you 
 can't invite over and play the various amounts of songs (including downloaded content, assuming 
 that they too have the same DLC) and even do one-on-one competition to prove who is truly the better 
 player. World Tour to my knowledge has not yet become available for multiplayer but supposedly 
 it is planned to be made such.
  
  I suppose if I could make any closing statement it would be that in the time you spent reading 
 my text wall, you could've been playing "Tom Sawyer" and wishing you were Neil Peart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingWallace9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I was new to the world of Guitar Hero when the third one came out. Curious to what it was I bought 
 it ( I too am a musician so the concept interested me) . I fell in love. It was such a fun game 
 to play with friends and even by your self. A truly innovative classic. Mere months later, Rock 
 Band came out. I was overwhellmed with choices. Should I buy Guitar Hero II or this? I ended up 
 spending near $100 more, but I feel Rock Band was the right choice in the end. With it's innovative 
 gameplay, Rock Band offers you the choice of being a vocalist, bassist, guitarist or drummer. You 
 can play with up to 4 people, or by your self if you lack gamer friends (or friends in general) . 
 It is one of the best party games I have ever played, but alone it is also quite fun. I was also 
 quite impressed with the graphics of this game, but It looks somewhat too cartoony to match other 
 Xbox 360 games such as Halo 3 or Gears of War. Who's complaining though right? The band story mode 
 is just what you think. You and some friends start a band, start out small and eventually go to 
 the bigger stages of being in a rock band. The only problem I had with it was how easy it was. 
 On guitar, I beat the game on hard in no time, where as on Guitar Hero II beating "Raining Blood" 
 took me forever. It is a good think for gamers who have never played a game like this before, but 
 for veterans it is dissapointing. I like the whole idea, losing fans when you fail a song etc, 
 but the fact that you have to increase difficulty as the songs difficulty increases is dumb. I 
 like staying at a consistent difficulty when playing any game. Other than that, there are no flaws 
 that I can see in Rock Band's multiplayer story mode. Single player it is a little different. It 
 is still fun just as Guitar Hero is, but compared to the multiplayer it seems like it lacks. It's 
 not all bad though. Playing by yourself can be quite fun! I was just stating that if you compare 
 it to multiplayer mode, it falls short. All in all, it is quite good. The soundtrack sort of dissapointed 
 me. "I Think I'm Paranoid" and "Dead On Arrival" just sicken me. I like that you can download tracks, 
 but the core tracks are sort of weak. The cover of "Mississippi Queen" is god awful in this game. 
 Why couldn't they put a Slayer song or a Megadeth song? The lack of punk rock is apparent too (but 
 that is as expected, for punk rock is quite exclusive anyway) . I like alot of the songs, but the 
 emo, southern rock and pop don't really make me as happy as "One", "Story of My Life" or "Raining 
 Blood" did on GHIII. Im really glad that they issued downloadable content (The Who pack is the 
 ****
  
  All in all, I really love this game. I reccomend it to anyone with a PS2, PS3, Xbox 360 or (!) 
 Wii. It is now only $150, and you can always just buy the core game and then buy the instruments 
 one by one. Great fun for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munger88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is easily the best music game ever created, blowing Dance Dance Revolution and Guitar 
 Hero out of the water with drums, guitar, bass, and a microphone. Also multiplayer is great. You 
 can play with friends in a band online, or face off against other competetors on any instrument. 
 Great fun, along with over 200 downloadable songs to choose from.
  
  SOUND: 10/10
  How can you not give this a 10? The soundtrack is insanely good. It features artists such as Iron 
 Maiden, Deep Purple, Fall Out Boy, Disturbed, System of a Down, The Clash and Paramore, just to 
 name a few. It has some of the best sound in any game I've ever played.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9/10
  Everyone knows the basic gameplay of Rock Band --- you hit the notes as they are 
 scrolling at you. You can also create a band or character and design them, or go online so there 
 is more gameplay behind hitting notes.
  
  GRAPHICS: 8/10
  The graphics really aren't a strong point, because in games like these, people pay more attention 
 to the notes they are trying to hit than the character they created that looks like he/she is playing 
 guitar.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 10/10
  If you play this game once, on any instrument, you will want to go and play it again. I've played 
 every song on every instrument several times, and have around 80 DLC songs, so if you get this 
 game you will spend a lot of time playing it.
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10
  This game is overall great, and a game I think everyone should have. It does cost a lot of money, 
 but trust me, it is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytothe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Everyone was waiting for Rock Band to come out since word was first released and it's no wonder 
 why. The look, the feel, it's all good.
  
  When you start off there's nothing much for customizing other than really $100 to spend and picking 
 the colour for everything, but when you get into the songs you start earning your money for customizing 
 (but customizing alone) . I remember Guitar Hero, in each one so far there have been bonus videos 
 or songs that you also used the money earned to buy. The videos brought you behind the scenes and 
 showed you what was going on to make the game. But this game didn't show us anything, it's not 
 that big of a deal and I don't really mind it. But one thing I do mind is the hours you have to 
 spend to unlock every piece of clothing, every guitar, etc. It gets annoying and you start to dislike 
 some songs after a while.
  
  Another thing is the difficulty. For a player of Guitar Hero III (on Expert only stuck on Lou) 
 this game is a sinch. This game is more about playing the songs you love rather than proving your 
 shredding skills. The hardest thing to do is singing and the drums are hard, but easy to get up 
 to expert. Singing is quite the challenge due to having to sing the note, but you can sing it in 
 another octave. But different people have different ranges. I, personally, will find myself singing 
 low, then have to go higher when the song actually goes lower because of my vocal skills. As well 
 not everyone can scream or shout in a song where the vocals do. The thrash metal pack downloadable 
 on the X-Box Marketplace or Playstation Store will show you what I mean. I (as I am told) can scream 
 and sound good, but I find I can't scream for a whole song and need to have a break, a bottle of 
 water with me, or a part that has clean vocals.
  
  Speaking of the songs, the song choice seems to be more aimed at pop, pop-rock, classic rock, and 
 other lighter genres, there seems to be little heavy metal. And I don't mean Priest and Sabbath 
 (although I do like them) I mean Slipknot, Lamb of God, etc. the heaviest songs are the downloadable 
 ones which are: Disturbed, System of a Down, the Thrash Pack, (and it can be argued) Metallica. 
 Although it seems Rock Band 2 is aiming for a less clean sound I would definitely hope that it 
 works out that way.
  
  Another couple of draw backs are the loading screens (mostly the downloaded content screen... when 
 you have more than 100 songs it gets annoying) , the cartooney looks of the characters (Big Hands 
 being the main thing) , the facial hair is WAY too hairy, and no solo world tour. Other than the 
 draw backs which you don't mind once you get into the game it is deffinately a great buy. You might 
 start feeling like you can actually start a band, but I advise learning how to play first. I also 
 advise buying a mic stand, it makes it fun to just have it when your doing vocals alone and as 
 well it allows you to play more than one instrument. As well I advise you go on E-Bay or Amazon 
 and buy a metal kick pedal for your drumset... cause the one you buy WILL brake garanteed, I broke 
 my second one a long time ago and am just waiting a couple of months till I get a credit card to 
 buy the pedal. All and all I give this 9/10 and hope that some things are fixed (mostly song selection) 
 with Rock Band 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrobs
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun but too much money. Guitar is too easy and drums is too loud and hard to play. 
 The singing is bad because no one wants to do it in multiplayer. I felt guilty when by parents 
 got this game for me because it was too much money. it is a very long game and not worth playing. 
 If you get this game you will not enjoy unless you have someone else too play with. Creating your 
 character and has lots of varieties to choose from. The achievements are very hard to get and the 
 last song of guitar is like 10 minutes long and dont even bother to try it because it is very hard 
 and frustrating. ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha aha ah ah ahh ah ah ah ah ah ah ah ha hah a hah ah h ah ah 
 ah ah ah ahah h a hah a hah ah ah ahha hah h ah a ha hh ah ah a hah h ah a ha ha ha h ha ha ha 
 ha ah a hah ah ha hah ah ah ah aah hah ah ah h ah h ahah a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: existingfear47
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  i had the GH2, 3, and 80's for ps2 before i got my 360. then as soon as i heard of rock band in 
 about march, i started looking at all these videos, and i had only played it ONCE before i got 
 it. this made me want it, along with my 360. so in mid-june i got both. it just so happened in 
 that week i had alot of people come over (i bought the special edition set) . that made rock band 
 seem top notch. as time went on, it was the same old songs again, my rock band guitar seemed worse 
 and worse (the whammy bar accually broke about a week ago) , the drums got boring as i played just 
 5 songs a day or less, and i beat guitar on expert in the 2nd week i had the game. it took me 3 
 MONTHS TO BEAT GUITAR HERO III on expert. the only good song that is fun playing on rock band is 
 welcome home. guitar hero 3 is much more difficult than rock band, accually making it fun. if TTFAF 
 wasnt so hard, do you think that people would stick to it? only one person in the world has FC'd 
 TTFAF on expert, and it was on hyperspeed 3, which is 2 steps up from the normal hyperspeed. rock 
 band doesnt have hyperspeed, the songs arent difficult at ALL, and if you go online to do a 1-1 
 match, the other person always forfeits, and when the other person forfeits doesnt that mean the 
 other person should get counted for a win? yes, but it doesnt happen.... this gets very frustrating 
 when people do that. 
  
  FINAL VOTE: guitar hero III has everything rock band doesnt have: good songs, difficulty that keeps 
 everyone rocking, great online mode, half of the achievements arent multiplayer mode (you cant 
 do rock bands multiplayer achievements online) , if someone forfeits you win, it is fun to play 
 by yourself. when guitar hero world tour comes out, expect the best of the best and expect the 
 rock band company to go down the drain.
  
  im not a fan boy for guitar hero, youd see me with every game right now
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rydrobot
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt the greatest rhythmic game there is right now. The game play is near flawless and 
 has a large array of songs to choose from not only on the game disk, but many available on the 
 Xbox live marketplace. Rock Band can be played by damn near anyone, with difficulty settings ranging 
 from the insanely easy to the very difficult any brand of gamer can pick this game up and enjoy 
 themselves. That is, if you have a slight enjoyment in music. This game is not only fun to play 
 alone but get a few friends either at home or online and you can find yourself playing for hours. 
 The only thing lacking in this game are the instruments, but play for a few hours and you easily 
 get used to them. So if you are looking for a great rhythm game and have some extra money to spend 
 go out and but Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gammit10
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I lamented not getting into games like Guitar Hero for a good year or so, until I saw that Rock 
 Band was getting developed.
  
  Full band instrumentation? Check
  A ton of songs available on the game disk? Yes
  A ton of forth-coming downloadable content? Yup
 
  Online play? Oh yeah
  Practice mode? Definitely
  
  These features sealed the deal. This game is fantastic. While I'm partial to the drums and bass, 
 the guitar is fun, and the singing mechanics blew me away.
  
  I grew hesitant when I heard that Rock Band 2 was in production, but breathed relief the moment 
 I heard that "most" songs (both on the RB 1 disk and DLC) were going to be forwards compatible 
 with the new iteration, AND that all instruments would be as well.
  
  Then again, that new premium drum set for $300 looks pretty sweet. But knowing that I don't HAVE 
 to buy it rocks (heh) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keving7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is personally one of my favorite games of all time.
  
  That wont bias my review whatsoever though. This game is phenomenal. It was the first of its kind, 
 bringing Guitar, Bass, Drums and Mic all together to make the ultimate video game group experience.
 
  
  The Tracklist is great, with songs from artists such as: The Rolling Stones, The Who, Boston, Rush, 
 Nirvana, Black Sabbath, Bon Jovi, Mettallica, Weezer, Red Hot Chili Peppers... ect brings great 
 variety, and great songs...
  
  Band World Tour mode is fun, living the life of a rocker, going to different cities, playing different 
 songs and sometimes, making your own tracklist (my personal favorite) . It's pretty straight foreward, 
 but fun none the less. Great with a handful of people.
  
  The single player mode is really the same as guitar hero, you play songs, and unlock songs... not 
 much to it but it works. 
  
  Getting a mic stand is a big reccomendation, playing guitar and singing is really fun, adding a 
 challenge for the expert guitar hero players.
  
  now the icing on the (delicious and moist) cake... the DLC... AMAZING songs available at a relatively 
 cheap price. The best part of it all is that they come consistently every week. 3 or more songs 
 every Tuesday, with a selection for any music lover. Downloadable albums is pure genius. These 
 200+ songs add longevity and a customizable feel to the game. 
  
  The only drawbacks are a terrible sign in menu, making things very difficult to even pick your 
 rocker. Also no Online band world tour is a minor setback, but not too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathx112
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Okay. So i got Rock Band a little late but it is still a great and fun game to play. 
  
  First i will talk about the game all together. It is fun, exiting, and frustrating. I finished 
 the story mode on easy kind of fast beacuse it was easy. The one thing i really like about Rock 
 Band is that once you are done easy you can basically go right on and play medium. I just finished 
 easy and medium, and i am starting to get into hard with some songs like "when you were young" 
 and "Reptilia" but other wise im on medium =P.
  
  I cant really talk about the graphicts in this game beacuse there are just notes flying on youre 
 screen, but in the background you see you're band and compared to Guitar Hero 3, Rock Band is more 
 "Realistic".
  
  Once you beat Rock Band, it just turns into a fun and great game like, online, and play with freinds 
 that come over or use this game at a party or ...... ANYTHING!
  
  Overall Rock Band is a great game to play if you just wanna get away from the "RPG's" and "Racing" 
 games (Not saying those types of games are bad .... RPG's are the best !) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  In the game you can do Single Player with a Guitar, Drum, or Mic. In Multiplayer you can form up 
 a band up to 4 people. One person can be mic. One person can be Guitar and bass. The last person 
 can be a drummer. In Multiplayer you can create a character and you can create a logo of your band. 
 You can also choose what place you want to Rock at. You can also customize your character at the 
 shop. There is also Xbox Live and there is Quick Play where you just play the songs that you have 
 already played.
  
  The good of the game is that it is fun to form a Rock Band and Play around the world.
  
  The 
 bad is that there is no Band vs. Band on Xbox Live.
  
  Overall I rate this game 9.5 outta 10 because the game is so fun and amazing. If you are thinking 
 about getting this game you should because it is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyrax-QC
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 4, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This is basically the most addictive game I've seen in my life, especially when you start playing 
 it. It adds a whole new form of gaming by letting the player sing and also have the possibility 
 of playing drums.
  
  The gameplay's totally awesome. People couldn't play as a band in previous Guitar Hero games, but 
 now they can with Rock Band: that is the whole point of the game. It's basically the same thing 
 than GH, except some new additions such as guitar solos, drum fills, and the concept of saving 
 a friend when he fails because he sucks too much... lol.
  
  The graphics are perhaps simple, but it's in all the details and animation of the game environment. 
 With plenty of different customizable clothing and accessories, you can finally create your own 
 rock legend. From hair design to sick custom guitars, you can modify almost everything in your 
 character's look, including his/her instrument. There are also a lot of good-looking venues, but 
 you can't choose em, which is a bit disappointing, but doesn't change anything major.
  
  You can choose from over 50+ in-game songs to play, not forgetting the possibility of downloading 
 other songs online (currently around 150 available on XboxLIVE Marketplace) , which cost a little, 
 but not that much.
  
  The online gameplay is somewhat deceiving, because it lacks the possibility of playing bands vs. 
 bands; only 1v1 by each instrument, with two ranked modes or playing a coop full band mode. But 
 still, it's still fun to go searching for other rockers online when you don't have anyone to play 
 with you local.
  
  The only thing that sucks really bad is the fact that the game is TOO FREAKIN' EASY!!! I mean, 
 when I got to do 98% on the hardest song in the game on Expert difficulty on drums after only 1 
 week of playing it and I hadn't played a single true instrument in my entire life, I was like: 
Omg, where's the freaking challenge??? ". It's one of those things GH3 got that Rock Band doesn't.
 
  
  So, in overall, the game is awesome... way too easy, but awesome. It's worth buying, even if costs 
 a lot for the bundle kit + game (except PS2 version) . It's a great game that everybody should own. 
 Buy it to have fun... because if you're searching for challenges, buy GH3 or you're gonna be sorry. 
 :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KOREANDUDE93
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  Rock Band for the XBox 360 is a great game. It is as much fun to play alone as it is with others. 
 There'a level for everyone. I play it with my friends, but I have also played with my 8 year old 
 cousin and my parents. It is the kind of gaming experience that attracts even people who really 
 are not generally interested in video games. I originally had the PS2 version, which is also a 
 blast. But the 360 has a lot more interesting features than PS2 version, including the ability 
 to download music. I have gotten a lot of enjoyment out of it and cannot wait for Rock Band 2 to 
 come out. The only drawback is that this original version does not have any wireless components 
 (PS2 guitar is wireless) , so if three people are playing, there are a lot of wires hanging around. 
 But, that is the ONLY criticism I have. This is a really unique game that everyone should try at 
 least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  It is guitar hero with 8 times the fun.
  
  The game is fun alone, but exponentially better when playing with friends-no matter what level 
 as you can adjust the difficulty of the instrument you are playing.
  
  The guitar portions aren't nearly as brutal as GH, which I think is a huge plus.
  
  This is 
 one of those games that everyone wants to play "just one more song." The next thing you know, it 
 is 2am and you have to get up early the next day.
  
  One of the most brilliant things in this game is the downloadable songs. The set list given is 
 fine, but the shear number of songs out there for additional playing gives this game serious legs. 
 
  
  I got this game for Xmas of 2007, it is Aug of 2008 and I am still enjoying the hell out of this 
 game. 
  
  Well worth the money (even though it wasn't mine to begin with) . Knowing what I know now, it is 
 worth the $180.
  
  My wife even got into it and my kids are picking it up. It's priceless.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jambajuice95
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band has been a favorite of mine even before I bought the game. After playing Guitar Hero 
 2 and 3, I didn't think it could get much better. But then Rock Band came out, which expanded the 
 possibilities of the music game genere. Being able to have a guitarist, bassist, dummer, and vocalist. 
 But with every game there has its up and its downs. It's downside is, a lot of the songs are kind 
 of out dated. Most of the good songs for this game you had to download. A suggestion for Rock Band 
 2 should be, use better, and more recent songs. Not songs that are mostly from 1970's to 1990's. 
 But besides that one flaw, it was an all around good game. The best part of this game has to be 
 the band world tour, where you name your band and earn fans and new forms of trasportation, roadies, 
 crew ext. ext. It really made multiplayer mode a lot more enjoyable. Costomizing your band members 
 is another great aspect of the game. In the previous Guitar Hero games. The most customizable part 
 of the games were buying new guitars, but in Rock Band you get to (deep breath) . Created your own 
 character including, weight, height, eye color, hair color, hair style, face style, name, complete 
 clothing customization, tattoos, complete instrument customization, including instrument style, 
 color, and the ability to put a sort of tattoo on it. And thats Rock Band in a nutshell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmart_43210
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is the greatest music game ever for many reasons. It is the first to include all four 
 instruments, and it does all of them very well. It does have one or two faults that keep it from 
 being perfect, but it is still an EXCELLENT game which is well worth the high asking price.
  
  Graphics: Nothing special here, but everything looks nice and crisp, with lots of great animations 
 by all the band members. 
  
  Gameplay: Excellent. Its pretty much the same gameplay we've come to expect from music games, abeit 
 with the addition of drums and vocals. The vocals work the same way they do in the karioke revolution 
 games, by using a pitch marker and scrolling the lyrics across the bottom. The drums are basically 
 the same as the guitar, except that there is 4 colors and a line for the bass pedal. 
  
  Sound: This game packs an awesome setlist with songs like Dani California and Don't Fear the Reaper 
 that are fun to play and instant classics. Plus Harmonix releases weekly DLC which can easily add 
 another 50+ songs to the already great setlist.
  
  Multiplayer: Awesome. There is full band co-op, and also a great mode called band world tour. Basically, 
 here you start a band, give yourself a name and logo, and earn fans by playing shows. Its fun to 
 play through with your friends and there is worldwide rankings to see how you stack up against 
 other people. The only problem here is that this cant be played online with other people (its only 
 local) .
  
  Peripharals: The only other area where this game falters. The guitar fret buttons are very loud, 
 and the strum bar is silent and normally defective. The drums are great, but after a while they 
 lose sensitivity and youll have to get a new set. The mic is just a standard usb mic with the RB 
 logo on it.
  
  In conclusion, Rock Band is a game that will be enjoyed for a long time. And with RB2 coming up, 
 it will continue to improve with new songs and features.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: konn3r
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:53 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game so much. it was very realistic and fun. im going to list the pros and cons about 
 each insrument. 
  
  microphone- pros- very responsive easy to use and easy to under stand you control it by singing 
 higher or lower the higher you sing the higher the bar will go up try to match it.
  cons- its some times easier to hum the song. its embarrassing to sing. it some times asks you to 
 tap the mic for the song witch gets annoying.
  
  drums- pros- feels realistic and fun to use. you dont have to tap hard. it has a bass peddle witch 
 is fun and easy to use. comes with cool drumsticks. the stand is heavy duty plastic so dont expect 
 it to break
  cons- the drum sticks aren't real. since you keep your eyes on the screen some times you tap the 
 sides witch doesn't work. some times you tap the Microsoft button witch gets annoying. and the 
 taping sounds interfere with the concert experience. 
  
  guitar pros- its heaver than guitar hero so it fells good. it looks more realistic. its based off 
 a real guitar. it has bottom frets witch are smaller just like a real guitar so solos or fast parts 
 are easier. the frets are flat so it feels better.
  cons- the strum thing is not as good as guitar hero. the whammy bar is further away. the strap 
 is to short.
  
  over all its game is perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Russian_Cossack
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix, the creators of many popular rhythm games (most notably originating the ongoing Guitar 
 Hero franchise) decided to jump into a new area, which they were familiar yet new to at the same 
 time. They expanded upon the their great concept of shredding guitar and turned it into a full 
 band experience and boy, that experience is pure magic.
  In Rock Band, you have many things to decide. First off, you need to decide to become a solo artist 
 or to play with other band mates. Then, you have to pick your weapon of choice: Either Lead Guitar, 
 Bass, Drums or Vocals. Bass is the only one not to have a solo tour, which is easily forgivable. 
 The solo tour operates exactly like the career mode in the Guitar Hero series where you just beat 
 every song to continue. If you liked career mode in Guitar Hero, then you should like this the 
 same.
  
  The real fun of Rock Band comes from the new Band World Tour. It's a non-linear journey where you 
 tour cities around the world, playing at venues of all sizes and try to eventually get inducted 
 into the Hall of Fame. It's great because of the paths you can take to achieve this, and the diversity 
 of the setlists; which can focus on specific genres, instruments or location. If you have a friend 
 or two or three to play with, then this mode will be a very very great way for you to kill time.
 
  
  There's also online multiplayer in Rock Band, which has 3 different modes: Band quickplay, Tug 
 of War and Score Duel. Band Quickplay is nice to be able to randomly play the game's setlist with 
 others if you're lacking a mate. Score Duel is essentially the same thing as Pro Face Off in Guitar 
 Hero, and respectively Tug of War is much like regular face-off in Guitar Hero. Since I'm not much 
 into competition in this game, I don't enjoy Score Duel and Tug of War nearly as much as I enjoy 
 the Band Quickplay.
  
  The most important thing about a music game is of course the music, which Rock Band has delivered 
 in a big way compared to it's competition. They bring many genres into the fray including indie 
 (Maps by Yeah Yeah Yeahs) , Alternative (Cherub Rock by Smashing Pumpkins, Creep by Radiohead) , 
 Metal (Run to the Hills by Iron Maiden, Enter Sandman by Metallica) and Classic Rock (Highway Star 
 by Deep Purple, Won't get Fooled Again by The Who) . I enjoy playing everything in this game minus 
 Seven by Vagiant to some capacity, so the soundtrack definitely serves its purpose well.
  To top off the tracks already in the game, Harmonix also offers many songs on the Xbox Live marketplace, 
 to extend the replayability a great amount. They have done the DLC perfectly here, by giving new 
 music every week and by delivering the big names of Rock to it as well. Along with that, the DLC 
 can work with upcoming Rock band sequels, so your DLC won't be wasted.
  
  My only gripe with this game is the somewhat unreliable peripherals that come packaged with it. 
 The Fender Stratocaster packaged with it is more difficult to adjust to than the Red Octane guitars 
 and I have had the bass pedal on my drum kit snap in half, although it was replaced for free by 
 Electronic Arts. This minor problem barely deters from the software of the game itself though, 
 which shines bright and has become the new king of the rhythm genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protocaldeath95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  this game is a blast! i love it. it may not be fuly commited to the music. but staring at the back 
 ground b4 the song starts never gets old. after getting it for christmas my family always played 
 it. but my only part is sleeping in wont happen when u got someone banging on the drums at 8 in 
 the morning! its always fun to sit there and see how many different types of characters u can make. 
 i wouldnt recommend the stock controller, so if u can. use ur old guitar hero 2 controller. because 
 after rocking out with the guitar hero one. the rockband one just seems odd when ur holding or 
 playing with the rockband controller. the drums are always fun and the songs have the tenency to 
 replay the same beat OVER and OVER and OVER! as u progress in the tour for the drums though, some 
 songs are just brutal. and its always the foot pedal that messes up. never tried singing since 
 i cant. but guitar tour is almost exactly like the GH2 and GH3 ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gonzafan
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I love rock games. I love practicing and gather with guitars. But unlike other rockstar, I usually 
 do bad, fool around and be funny with the music and this is the coolest because I love the screech 
 sound! But I quite like the musics. It was plain cool, but I also like playing serious and real. 
 And the strangest, coolest and the best stars will get a rare 5 gold star, much better than 5 regular 
 stars. But the bad is the price, $170 costs a whole pouch of money.
  And the difficulty is very interesting, ranging from easy to hard. There is meters which indicate 
 performance, energy outcome meter will activate 2x score, yet the score multiplyer is a pie graph 
 that indicates how flawless you are playing of a limit of 4x (8x) . These are all cool. And there 
 is vocal, lead guitar, bass guitar and drum. I rocks at drum but sucks at vocal. Just plain rocks 
 and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kinjira
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  My brother recieved Rock Band for Christmas last year. He's always been great at Guitar Hero, so 
 he opened it right up, and set everything up for us to play. With the two of us playing, Rock Band 
 was okay. However, that New Year's Eve, my girlfriend and aunt got a hold of some of the other 
 instruments and we all were instantly hooked. Even now, 7 months after we got the game, my family 
 still gets together every Friday to play Rock Band. And even though two of us (one of them being 
 me, I admit) aren't as good as the other two, we're still able to have loads of fun playing the 
 game together. Just the simple fact that my brother and girlfriend can play it on expert while 
 my aunt and I are stuck on medium but are *still* able to play together makes Rock Band great; 
 you don't have to be good to have a good time. This game brings us together, lets us have fun together 
 in a way not many other games do. And the downloadable content only makes us want to continue coming 
 back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolmantony
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  this for me is the best game ever any body can play it my grand ma got 93% on wanted dead or alive. 
 This is even for the "freaks" because thiers expert mode that goes so fats and has a lot of diffculty. 
 its not like gutair hero where u could only do gutair or bass but u can sing drums also and singing 
 is for any body but the only problem is if ur terriable at singing ur parents can scream at u like 
 me. This game is highly addictuve and will be in gamers hearts for a long long time and will never 
 be forgotten. it has a great varioty of songs and the beats or the colour squares w. e u call it 
 match the song. Has some classic songs so ur parents can realte and u could learn some old culture 
 =fr om this game and if u hav a little sis or bro in pre skool they can learn to read from the 
 mazing karoke part of rock band.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslayer1111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to make your own band? But couldnt cause you couldnt play the guitar? The drums? 
 Or you even sound like a toad? Well look no further. Rockband is here to save us all of that worry 
 , and let us do it on plastic instruments that sound like the real thing... Kinda.
  
  
  -Gameplay-
  Its like guitar hero, just without your usual circled gems coming at you. Instead, 
 they dangle you with rectangular multi-coloured ice cream sandwhich type things that you gotta 
 hit. Different instruments have their own board on the screen. Vocals on top, Guitar on left, Drums 
 in the middle, and Bass on the right. Drums have more hardcore constant notes and have the added 
 base pedal that comes up as a line on the board. Guitar and Bass are the same as your regular Guitar 
 hero, and Vocals have to use their voice to make an arrow that follows your pitch of voice, to 
 follow a line while singing lyrics. Old-school met with new-school , meaning its familiar but its 
 got some new tricks.
  10/10
  
  -By Yourself-
  By yourseelf this game is like a guitar hero career. You go around the world, playing various songs, 
 making your own character, dressing him up, and well... just playing the songlist till your hands 
 (or voice) curls up and die. Familiar still, but may have gotten old after the 3 Gh's.
  9/10
  -Multiplayer-
  This is what its all about, THE MULTIPLAYER! Wether its Local, or online, 
 ITs still flippin fun.
  
  -Local
  Being local lets you play the World Tour game, Which lets you and your bandies (Band Camp reference) 
 to play all around the world, making fans, cash, gettin tour buses, jets and so on. Best thing of 
 all, is that you make your own setlist, thus you wont be saying ,"AWW MAN , I DO NOT WANT TO PLAY 
 SHOULD I STAY OR SHOULD I GO!!!!! NOOOO" and want to shoot yourself. Amazingly fun, and gives you 
 the pleasure of hitting the member who messed up the solo or the rockout parts.
  
  -Online
  Not as fun as local, but you can still co-op it with a whole band online, choosing your 
 own songs to play. You can also play the other various modes that let you battle it out with a 
 similar band member to declare whos better at the instrument.
  
  Multiplayer is the best thing ever.
  10/10
  
  -Audio-
  Well, I cant say too much here, 
 the audio are the songs. Long live A7X.
  10/10
  
  -Visual-
  B-E-AUTIFUL! Characters are great, the instruments look cool. The many moves your band performs 
 on stage, and the stage itself. Freakin fantastic.
  10/10
  
  -Overall-
  New instruments, amazing downloadable songs (A7X, Metallica) , Amazing sounds, and visuals makes this 
 game a number one want in anyones game related mind. Thats it for this review, Time to finish my 
 solo on Enter Sandman.
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luv_2_Rock
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  The nice thing about rock band is that you can select your own difficulty, even when you're playing 
 with a group of people. This way, the difficulty is always at your level and it can be fun for 
 everyone.
  
  I'll start with the single player mode. You can start a "solo career" with any instrument and play 
 it at any difficulty. The first time you play through the solo career, you unlock all of the songs. 
 You also get money when you play through the solo career, which you can use to buy clothes and 
 stuff for your character. I had a lot of fun making my character, and choosing her outfits (which 
 I change often haha) , make up, jewellery, and more. i think this is a cool feature, although some 
 people probably won't enjoy it as much as i did. You get more money the better you do on the song. 
 (And also, the farther you get into the solo career, the harder the songs get, and the more money 
 you earn)
  
  In the solo career, you get achievements for beating each difficulty with each instrument, so you 
 have to be really talented at all instruments to get them all.
  
  Each instrument is really fun to play, although my favourite is singing. Guitar is fairly similar 
 to guitar hero, so if you play guitar hero a lot, you'll definitely like it. Drums can be hard 
 to play, and takes a while to get used to, but is still fun nonetheless. And it must be kind of 
 similar to the real thing because my friends who are drum players are usually better than the ones 
 who have never picked up a drum stick before. And, finally, singing. I think the singing is well 
 done, and you do have to be able to match the pitch well to do well. I would have to say there 
 is one problem though. There are some parts in some songs where you tap the mic along with the 
 song to play percussion (usually tambourine or a cowbell of some sort) . This can be frustrating 
 and difficult because sometimes the mic doesn't respond very well so you get a lower mark even 
 though you got the beat right. There is a bit of a trick to it, though. Don't tap the mic too hard, 
 and it usually responds better.
  
  The multiplayer mode is fun, too. You can start a band in multiplayer, or just play whatever songs 
 you feel like (and have unlocked) . 
  
  I haven't tried the online part of rock band, but that also sounds very fun. It sounds like you 
 can play with other people online, which is neat. I look forward to trying it. 
  
  Another nice thing about rock band is that you can get new songs online. They might be a bit overpriced, 
 but they're not too bad and you can add songs that you really like to the ones you already have. 
 It's a good thing to have for if you get bored of the songs that come with the game. 
  
  Overall, I would have to say this is a great game. I think it's much better than guitar hero because 
 of all of the extra features that guitar hero doesn't have. (Also, people say that guitar is a 
 lot harder on rock band because of the guitar, I would have to say it's not that bad, you just 
 have to get used to the different controller) It is a fun, addictive game that you could easily 
 spend hours playing with your friends. My main problem with the game is that all of the bonus songs 
 are from bands local to where rock band was made. I would prefer to play songs I know. But, other 
 than that, rock band is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkaDorka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Rock Band has been labeled the rip-off of Guitar Hero, when it is actually what Guitar Hero 3 Should 
 have been. So, just because it's what should have been the next Guitar Hero, is it actually any 
 good?
  
  Single player (8/10) : Single player goes along just about the same as it does in Guitar Hero: a 
 big piece of paper where you go through the songs by difficulty. Nothing is really different here, 
 except the ability to customize your character. The problem with character Customizing is that 
 you have to choose from five faces (or something close to that number) to choose from, opposed 
 to creating your own face This isn't really a problem, just a bit annoying that when you start 
 a new character, you'll run out of looks quick, but later you can customize it with clothes , instruments, 
 and hair-dues. 
  
  Multi-player (10/10) : This is where the game shines. With the normal just play with a couple players 
 for a couple songs, there is also Band World Tour mode. Band World Tour is where you build a band 
 with friends (2-4) on Xbox LIVE (LIVE is not needed, but if you have it, the band will be shown 
 on LIVE, and you can battle ore play with other people over LIVE) and play in different places 
 all over the world, gaining stars (up to 5 per song) and fans (Unlimited amount if you play all 
 songs on Expert) . This is VERY fun and addictive. I currently have 3 bands online. 
  
  Songs (8/10) : The song list is for the most part, great (including Downloads) , with songs like 
 In Bloom from Nirvana and Enter Sandman from Metallica, but there a few clunkers like 'Should I 
 Stay or Should I Go' (WHAT CRAP!) and a song I used to like, but after this game ALWAYS making 
 you play 'Creep' from Radiaohead, it becomes a chore. Then downloads are great with songs from 
 Metallica and Disturbed (Nothing great, some OK) and even a heavy song called 'DOA' from The Haunted. 
 This far surpasses the crap in Guitar Hero III, and Rock Band 2's track list is just as good (Releasing 
 September 2008) .
  
  Overall: 8.5 Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has been the best rhythm game for a long time, and it is probably still best guitar 
 rhythm game, but Rock Band brings lead guitar, bass, drums, and singing all together in one game.
 
  
  Rock Band's guitar and bass parts are not as nearly as hard as Guitar Hero's are, but they are 
 still fun to play. The singing works really well, and not only does it measure your voice, but 
 it has these parts where you have to tap the microphone. The drums offer a lot of challenges, and 
 are probably the hardest part to play in this game.
  
  Rock Band has bunch of good songs by bands such as Nirvana, Black Sabbath, etc. Most of the songs 
 are really good. But a few of the songs are just down right terrible. Over all Rock Band probably 
 has the best sound track out of any of the Guitar Hero's
  
  The graphics in Rock Band are really good, and things do not move choppy, like in Guitar Hero 3.
 
  
  The sound in Rock Band is good, but over all, it depends on weather you like the music.
  
  Rock Band is one of the greatest party games out there, and if you want to play through a bunch 
 of good songs with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneWulf666
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  The lights, sounds, fog and attire or a rock concert in your hands. Sorta.
  
  The character creation is well-done for each size and shape of rocker. The instrument customization 
 is great. The songs in the game are diverse and mainstream enough for at least half the people standing 
 in the room to know by heart. I liked the solo time at the end of certain songs. The pyro and neon 
 lights were well-done. You can even score duel or play co-operatively on hand-picked songs. World 
 Tour adds ten times the replay value. Each instrument is tuned to feel like the real thing.
  
  Now here's the bad stuff
  -easy songs, no difficulty compared to say guitar hero
  -No online 
 World Tour
  -The endless setlist can end your Xbox 360 if you let it
  -Score duel= pro-face off/ Face off (Guitar Hero)
  -Faulty equipment
  -Drum design is something 
 left to be desired
  -No story, just another setlist
  
  Overall, if you wanna feel like a real band without trying too hard with pathetic instrumental 
 replicas that are poorly made, then you got your game right here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worthyofnote
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a dynamic concept that delivers. Built around the Guitar Hero mold, this game allows 
 one to rock out like never before. Take the concept of strumming away and pressing color coordinated 
 buttons on a plastic guitar, then add a karaoke element and a set of pads to hammer on and your 
 set to be the next biggest band. 
  
  You start off creating a band and your rock persona. You can personalize your rock star with tattoos, 
 sweet hair-dos (and do nots) , clothes, and equipment. You can even choose a rock star personality.
 
  
  However, the magic is not in the customization and forming the band alone. This game really shines 
 when it comes to the multi-player. Simply gather three buddies and start a World Tour. Along the 
 way unlocking new cities, set lists, and the linear progression to the top of the charts. 58 songs 
 seem like enough, but after some time they become far too repetitive. But with the addition of 
 download-able content, you will keep rockin' and rollin'. 
  
  The Solo Tour isn't as nearly as much fun, but it will still keep you occupied for awhile. For 
 the lone wolves Guitar Hero is recommended, due mostly to the fact that most of the songs were 
 chosen with the entire band in mind.
  
  When it comes to the instruments, they're fairly simple. Anyone who has played Guitar Hero will 
 feel right at home with the guitar. The newest addition to the guitar is the additional frets, 
 located near the bottom of th4e neck, and are used during solo sessions, no strumming required. 
 
  
  The drums follow the same idea of matching notes with the pounding on colored pads. It may seem 
 complicated at first but it sure is engrossing. At first I had a little trouble with both beating 
 the pads and engaging the kick pedal, but after some time it becomes second nature. The only flaws 
 with the drums come from the excessive banging. The pads seem to eventually wear out or break, 
 and the actual simulated sounds can be drowned out.
  
  The microphone is fairly simple to use. You just have to match your pitch with the scrolling words 
 and indicated/suggested pitch level. Sometimes you don't even have to sing the words correctly, 
 so don't worry if you fumble a bit.
  
  All in all, if you have the man power (or woman power) and the means ( the full set costs nearly 
 170 dollars) , then definitely go for this game. Even the most casual and non-gamers will have fun. 
 Taken as a whole, Rock Band is the best music game out on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: intoblivion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band has changded the music game genre forever, Guitar Hero set the benchmark with its clever 
 and enjoyable gameplay and great songs. Rock Band has pushed that benchmark to a new level, not 
 happy with just another guitar game Harmonix incorporated a Drum kit and a microphone into their 
 game. This combination works very well and certainly has put pressure on the Guitar Hero franchise, 
 also does Harmonix take on a story mode for its new game, Band World Tour offers you and your friends 
 the chance to go on a virtual tour through many cities round the world. The better the play the 
 more gigs you get, this mode alone could of made the game great, but I belive the unsung hero of 
 the game is the Tug of War mode which allows you to battle a local of xbox live opponent for the 
 most points in a certain song. Its a clever and enjoyable gametype which will add a competitive 
 edge to a brilliant game. If you love music and have got bored of Guitar Hero then buy this game 
 you will not regret it. But if you don't like music and like video games, buy this game anyway 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyber-Cyrax
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This is basically the most addictive game I've seen in my life, especially when you start playing 
 it. It adds a whole new form of gaming by letting the player sing and also have the possibility 
 of playing drums.
  
  The gameplay's totally awesome. People couldn't play as a band in previous Guitar Hero games, but 
 now they can with Rock Band: that is the whole point of the game. It's basically the same thing 
 than GH, except some new additions such as guitar solos, drum fills, and the concept of saving 
 a friend when he fails because he sucks too much... lol.
  
  The graphics are perhaps simple, but it's in all the details and animation of the game environment. 
 With plenty of different customizable clothing and accessories, you can finally create your own 
 rock legend. From hair design to sick custom guitars, you can modify almost everything in your 
 character's look, including his/her instrument. There are also a lot of good-looking venues, but 
 you can't choose em, which is a bit disappointing, but doesn't change anything major.
  
  You can choose from over 50+ in-game songs to play, not forgetting the possibility of downloading 
 other songs online (currently around 150 available on XboxLIVE Marketplace) , which cost a little, 
 but not that much.
  
  The online gameplay is somewhat deceiving, because it lacks the possibility of playing bands vs. 
 bands; only 1v1 by each instrument, with two ranked modes or playing a coop full band mode. But 
 still, it's still fun to go searching for other rockers online when you don't have anyone to play 
 with you local.
  
  The only thing that sucks really bad is the fact that the game is TOO FREAKIN' EASY!!! I mean, 
 when I got to do 98% on the hardest song in the game on Expert difficulty on drums after only 1 
 week of playing it and I hadn't played a single true instrument in my entire life, I was like: 
Omg, where's the freaking challenge??? ". It's one of those things GH3 got that Rock Band doesn't.
 
  
  So, in overall, the game is awesome... way too easy, but awesome. It's worth buying, even if costs 
 a lot for the bundle kit + game (except PS2 version) . It's a great game that everybody should own. 
 Buy it to have fun... because if you're searching for challenges, buy GH3 or you're gonna be sorry. 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan_1078
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played this game yet, what the hell have you been up to for the past 8 months? It 
 doesn't play guitar as well as Guitar Hero, but the overall gameplay of combined instrument gameplay. 
 I have to admit, drums suck. I hate them with all of my heart and hope the idiot who came up with 
 them dies a horrible death. Just Kidding! I still suck at drums, but the game is fun, the downloadable 
 content is awesome, and you have fun with friends and relatives rocking out to some awesome songs. 
 It is most definitely worth it and you should be playing it now. You know what? I think I'm done 
 with this review just so I can go play. Have fun and go get Rock Band. Seriously.    
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeppy007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  On of the best games in 2007 or in any year.
  
  Presentation 9.0: the games grapics are amzing your charcters really look like theyre preforming 
 in a concert and your charcters will do stage dives guitar smashes and theyll throw the drum sticks 
 a kick over the drum set and the people in the crowd actually go crazy unlike guitarhero where 
 all they do swing on arm back in forth in a robotic motin and the crowd sings along to key monents 
 in the song usally the hook.
  
  Sound 9.5: the sound track is amazing. unlike guitar hero rock dosent stuff the game with a bunch 
 of crappy bonus songs and put on the back of the box 70+ songs. no they have 58 songs and the only 
 bad songs are some of just begging bands song some of those are bad but the rest are fricken sweet.
 
  
  Gameplay 9.5: do i really need to explain this Im sure at one point or another youve seen a gameplay 
 video of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinballman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  How Guitar Hero 3 should have been.
  
  Me, and my son have a blast when we play this game. He received the "Box Set" for his 9th. B-Day. 
 It's been non stop good fun. You have alot of songs to choose from and the more you play the higher 
 the difficulty and the more into you get. Eveytime you you ace a song you get fans and money and 
 more venues you can play in. My wife (who does not play video games) is playing this game. Good 
 activity for parents and kids. 
  
  Great marketplace: We must have downloaded dozens of songs by now. Everything from Nine Inch Nails 
 to Black Sabbath to Boston and The Who. They promised that every Tuesday they'd release a song. 
 In reality, every Tuesday, they release between 3-10 songs. There is an amazing catalog of downloadable 
 content for every flavor of music and every skill level. 
  
  Skill levels: The skill levels work very nicely. If you are an old guitar hero dog and play on 
 expert, but your girlfriend wants to sing and needs to play on easy, no problem. You each pick 
 your own difficulties and have a great time. 
  
  Nice Instruments: The instruments are of good quality. We know a couple of people who broke their 
 kick drum, but I suspect they were spazzing out on it. Ours is fine! 
  
  Unfortunately, "Band World Tour" can only be played locally, and not online. Online play is available, 
 but only in the "Quickplay" mode where you pick individual songs from a list and not the full career 
 more. Harmonix has said that it is unlikely that this will be added later; and will be the killer 
 feature of 'Rock Band 2'. There is ranked 1-on-1 matchmaking through X-Box Live in a few different 
 modes, but no way to have your whole band take on another one head (s) -to-head (s) (again, I would 
 look for this in a sequel) .
  
  Over all: 9.5 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  I love Rock Band... Being a drummer, I was very skeptical the drums would work properly, so i held 
 off for months. After a period of time i investigated the drum playing and decided to invest the 
 money... and it was worth every penny. The drums are programmed pretty accurately... at first its 
 difficult to imagine playing as though its a drumkit (but you see a videogame) ... but once you get 
 past the concept and accept it for what it truely is, everything breaks loose and makes sense. 
 The singing is also really fun... and the range of difficulty really opens up the age and skill 
 level to anyone. When i had family of all ages over my house, ive never seen a group of 10-50 year 
 olds having so much fun together... not even with Wii Sports. The track list is very good and takes 
 advantage of the whole band concept, but the real positive is weekly DLC. Be prepared to dish out 
 money for DLC cause its worth it and the wide selection is incredible... and it continues to grow. 
 By far the greatest music based game ever created... the range of difficulty welcomes everyone... and 
 the game is incredibly fun to play, by yourself or 4 people... it doesn't matter. Buy this!!! Or 
 just wait for Rock Band 2 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireEmblemTerra
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Rock Band I thought it would be a joke. Upon getting though, I love it. 
 It is a lot of fun, even though there are some insane songs, and some songs that shouldn't be on 
 there at all. Here are the first couple of problems.
  First of all: Fall Out Boy and Flyleaf... WTF?!?!
  Second of all: Insane songs like Flirting 
 with Disaster and Green Grass and High Tides, make this game nearly impossible for casual guitar 
 players.
  Third: The Drums are too loud, and the peripherals overall suck. 
  
  My usual Band consists of me on bass, my brother on guitar, my sister on vocals, and our friend 
 Dibz on drums. Occasionally my sister and I switch off, because she also likes bass. We all play 
 on expert , except for my sister, and just recently done the endless setlist. This 9+ hour experience 
 was like hell, losing most of our fans as we continued to fail on some of the songs toward the 
 end. When we finally did complete it, at like 1 in the morning after we started at like 3, we were 
 disappointed by the "celebration" our band did.
  
  The solo modes gets boring fast, especially witht the difficulty of some of the songs. The songs 
 get old, even though they do release new songs every Tuesday there is rarely anything good. You 
 don't even need to sing the song lyrics in order to pass. You can just hum to the beat, or make 
 up your own lyrics, and you will get just as good of a score. 
  
  I like Rock Band, but it could be better. Me and the Black Mages, will continue to rock and most 
 likely may pick up Rock Band 2, but there is one small thing. Guitar Hero World Tour is coming 
 out in the fall, and that game looks sick. I think it will be better, but do I want to shell out 
 the $180 for the complete band kit again? It's actually kind of weird, this review started with 
 a rating of 9.5, but as I went through I realized that this is way too high for a game with such 
 flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamok_2007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is no doubt a game for a group of friends/family. With its basic controls, even the worst 
 gamer known to man can get in on the fun. I used to play it with just a couple of close friends 
 who'd swing by from time to time, but then my whole family got in on it. Now everyone in my family 
 has a rock band set, so it's not to difficult to figure out what the main agenda on our minds is. 
 Although it is a complete embarrassment seeing my father pound away on the drums with no shirt 
 on or my mother even try to sing, it is still a ton of fun. With its classic rock songs, its capability 
 to be blasted as loud as humanly possible and its downright fun game play, rock band is the ultimate 
 game for family bonding. Rock Band is simply a great game, its fun, easy to play, and the songs 
 are really good. I'd highly recommend getting this game, I was reluctant to try it at first, but 
 now I can't put it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattyj1027
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  All i have to say is that Guitar Hero has a long way to catch up with Rock Band. I know that Guitar 
 hero 4 is going to have drums and vocals but The creators of Guitar Hero are basically copying 
 Rock Band. Rock Band revolutionized not just music games but all games. It's world tour and online 
 modes were mind-blowing. Also you gotta love the setlist. Great bands like Nirvana, Iron Maiden, 
 Boston, RHCP really made this great amazing. Also i love all the downloadable content on Xbox Live 
 Marketplace. That was great. I loved being able to download more Boston and Weezer songs. But i 
 think one of the greatest expiriences of Rock Band is when your playing someone online and your 
 just demolishing them. There is no greater feeling in the world then that. This is one of the greatest 
 games i have ever played period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileyface1234
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  To start things off, this game is Harmonix's masterpiece. With great bands from today (OK Go, The 
 Strokes, etc.) , yesterday (The Rolling Stones, The Who, etc.) and great unknown Boston bands (Vagiant, 
 Crooked X, etc.) this game has a soundtrack varying from the 60s to 2007. The guitar is one most 
 realistic video game controllers I've ever seen. This Fender Stratocaster replica looks way better 
 than GH's Gibson SG, or Les Paul, or Kramer. The microphone makes gameplay more fun with cowbell, 
 and blurting out random words (kufuffling, qwerty, etc.) (one of my personal favorites) . The drums 
 do not look realistic, and hopefully will be more realistic in Rock Band 2, and better than GH: 
 World Tour's working prototype. Hands down, the drums are the most fun gaming experience I've ever 
 experience. I mean, hitting stuff is AWESOME! In overall, this game is the rythym game of 2007! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camerwin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  thank you mtv, ea, and harmonix for turning those cheesy rock the rythym games into something this 
 ginormously incredumazing. ginormous is a combination of gigantic and enourmous and incredumazing 
 is a combination of incredible and amazing so when i say that this game is ginormously incredumazing, 
 it means that its easily the biggest best game of the entire ever. i think band world tour saved 
 my life because it is incredumazing. multiplayer is even a bajillion times better, and all the 
 different instruments is just like heaven. the create-a-dude for singleplayer campaign is again 
 incredumazing... my guy looks sickk. whoever thought of this genius game, I hope youre rich living 
 in a mansions and all of your dreams have come true because you deserve it. =) graphics are sick, 
 gameplay is sicker, game of the year easily. owners of the xbox 360 go buy it NOW or else you should 
 sell your xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockbandlife
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  holy cow where do i start?, this game is amasing, new songs, 4 people can play, lots of good this 
 are put in this game, its like guitar hero but better, for people how have guitar hero, and want 
 to get rock band, i will warn you, it takes a while to get used to. now for people who have not 
 played guitar hero or rock band, and are geting rock band, you'll find it hard in the beginning, 
 but you'll get better at it, practice makes perfect, now the point of the game is to make a successful 
 rock band by playing songs by singing, druming, or playing the guitar. you'll find this game adictive. 
 its a simple must get game, but at a down side of 150 to 170 dollers canadian, if you realy want 
 to get this game, be willing to spend the money. so over all its a great game, if you have the money, 
 and your willing to pay for it, you should get it,, right now im an expert at it so i find it easy, 
 but for you beginners, it will be hard in the beginning, you'll get better, so any way have fun 
 with rock band if you get it, if you need any advice, just send ma a message, and thank you to who 
 ever agrees with my reveiw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Perfect for a party: drums, bass, guitar, microphone. Four people per song, feel free to rotate. 
 It's fun, end of story, everybody will love it and have a good time! The song selection sometimes 
 needs an acquired taste sometimes, though...
  
  Amazingly fun alone: if you're sick and don't have anything to do today, just pick up the guitar, 
 drums or Microphone, and start a solo career! Unfortunately, bass does not have it's own solo career, 
 but in multiplayer, bass groove is the most important five-star-getter!
  
  Excellent Replay Value?: Hardly considered replay value, because there is always something fun 
 to do, quick-play alone is all you need for a fully-functional small party! 
  
  I promise you all 100% that you will love Rock Band, and with the new 20-song packs they're making 
 will just make it THAT much more enjoyable! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-unit_9001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  So, I had been waiting patiently since e3 '07 for this masterpiece and on the 23rd of May (damn 
 you EA making me wait) I received my wish. This 140 "band" consumed my life until the only thing 
 that could stop me happened, the red rings of death. This game has a few issues; the b******* on 
 live who keep quitting, the character customization is a little weak, no mode were you can just 
 freestyle on an instrument and no online band world tour. But thats really it, every other mode 
 has been done and set out perfectly and makes you want to play the same song over and over and 
 over. That brings me on to another thing; dlc, its amazing. Motley Crue, Lynard Skynard, the offspring 
 and even the who are joining us. People say that the "instruments" are crappy quality but none 
 off mine are broken in any way after 1 month solid rocking but the only thing i can say is that 
 a double bass would be nice for the drums. Band world tour is a new feature (I think?) were you 
 and your "band" tour the world collecting fans, money and gold stars which is used to determine 
 which gigs you and your mates can play next. The achievements mostly relate to this and the solo 
 careers so it will take a long time to get your 1000/1000 for this, i've had it for a month and 
 i only have 130/1000.
  Even though this game cost 140 and has some problems you will never regret buying this (unless 
 you brake it) and will have countless hours rocking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  Review note - Ive only bought the game & used the GH3 controller so not experienced the other instruments. 
 I just cant afford them. 
  
  Well ive completed this on Hard. You know what to expect & you'll be happy to know its another 
 good addition to the music & GH style games. But overal im disappointed. 
  
  First off is the character creation tool. I hate this in any game, not just this. I'd prefer to 
 have a good selection of OTT characters to pick from in a game like this rather than having to 
 spend the first 10 minutes of the game creating some faceless character im never going to be happy 
 with. Wheres the Rock Gods, Devils, Reapers etc.? Bah! 
  
  Next is the track list. Obviously this is going to change from person to person. But personaly 
 I didnt think much to it. I prefered GH 2+3 track lists by quite a margin. This is quite a big 
 problem for any music game. If the tracks arent to your liking the game is just not going to be 
 as enjoyable. Theres a good variety to them though, so you will find some you like, but there werent 
 enough for me. Take a look at the list yourself & add 1 or 2 points to the score depending on how 
 much it appeals to you. & with the tracklisting now accomodating more of a band ethic, some of 
 the tracks have little for you to actualy do with one instrument. This also seemed to make the 
 difficulty curve very uneven. I found some of the later songs to be easier than the earlier songs. 
 Maybe with the drums/mic these are harder but with the guitar they arent & vice versa. 
  
  Lastly, my biggest problem comes from the notes on screen themselves. The hammer-ons & pull-offs 
 are just not very clear. They are too similar to the regular notes & can cause some major confusion 
 on the faster sections. This was incredibly frustrating for me & removed a lot of the fun from 
 playing it. 
  
  But even with all these problems I still gained a lot of enjoyment from it. The thing is it sticks 
 to that classic GH style formula that is just incredibly fun to play, even after all these years 
 & on the more mediocre tracks. & there is still nothing quite like the feeling of nailing a tough 
 solo on the harder difficulties. This is enough to raise it from an average to a good/great game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AoiSora603
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Say hello to Rock Band, the Big Daddy of rhythm games! In this game, you have your choice of four 
 instruments: guitar, bass, drums, or vocals. Choose your weapon... and ROCK!
  
  For those of you accustomed to the big circles coming at you on the screen a la Guitar Hero, the 
 bars used in Rock Band might take a little getting used to. It's very easy to follow though, and 
 you'll be rocking in no time.
  
  The soundtrack is great! Most of the songs are master tracks and the few covers aren't too bad. 
 The best part of the soundtrack yet is that it's the gift that keeps on giving! If the 58 songs 
 included in the game aren't enough for you, then don't worry! Every Tuesday (Thursday for those 
 of you on the PS3) , more songs are released for download! As of the time of this review, OVER 150 
 additional songs can be downloaded, so worry not about getting tired of a song. Instead, worry 
 about having the money to get all the songs you want!
  
  If you're playing solo, then you can play a solo career on all the instruments (except for bass 
 for some reason...) , or you can just pick a song and go, just for the fun of it. While playing 
 solo is fun, it also gives you a chance to practice. Be warned though. For those of you who cut 
 your teeth on Guitar Hero games, don't go into this one expecting to make your fingers bleed. The 
 songs on this game generally take all of the instruments into consideration, rather than focusing 
 on the fun and challenge of one particular instrument. But don't be fooled, because some of these 
 songs do provide a challenge for guitar shredders. The drums offer a very fresh perspective on 
 the rhythm genre, and that is where you are likely to find most of your challenge.
  
  While solo play is fun, where this game really shines is in multiplayer. This is a very social 
 game, and I'm sure you'll find yourself involved in a great many Rock Band parties if you pick 
 this one up. Remember, the more the merrier!
  
  For the full bundle, you'll pay a pretty penny, but you'll definitely get your money's worth with 
 this one! It's fun to play alone, but even more fun with your friends!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalHead48
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is really a great game. Good songs, incredible downloadable content, and great multiplayer. 
 There are three easy-to-fix but annoying problems with the game.
  
  1) Timing Window: I'm sorry, call me a n00b, but I don't suck at the game. I only play expert. 
 I've gold starred more than a third of the career setlist and I've five starred every career and 
 bonus song. THE TIMING WINDOW IS TOO TIGHT. The only thing I think about playing a song is about 
 strumming perfectly. Having to worry about making a stupid mistake due to the timing window takes 
 the fun out of the game. I would have at least a couple more gold stars if it weren't for the timing 
 window. Although I'm getting used to it, it is still annoying. Almost every time I finish a Rock 
 Band session I'm angry at the timing window. Easy to fix.
  
  2) Hyperspeed: It's not a cheat. Many people use it. Makes the timing window problem worse since 
 I have to get used to no hyperspeed. Easy to fix. 
  
  3) No Online Band World Tour: Come on? WTF. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raahsnavj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Foreword: If you are a Wii/PS2 only owner this review is not for you (unless you plan on getting 
 an X360 or PS3 in the future) . The game is too different on those platforms and I haven't played 
 it on those platforms to compare it to the X360 edition.
  
  When it comes to a Rhythm game, Rock Band is the game to play. I have heard there are other games 
 out there that did the 'band' type game already, but they never were big like Rock Band. I never 
 played them, so while the concept isn't new, it is probably new to most people who will play this 
 game.
  
  Rock Band lets you take control of either the Lead Guitar, Bass, Drums, or Vocals in a virtual 
 band. If you feel really up to it, the game was designed to allow you to do vocals and one of the 
 others too if you feel like being multi-talented. The concept is pretty simple to see and understand 
 on how the gameplay maps to the actions for each, so I won't get into the details of explaining 
 that dynamic too much.
  
  As you play the songs you earn points, the more notes or phrases you string together, the more 
 points you will score. If you miss too many notes you get booted off the stage. I'm yet to see 
 anyone score less than 2 Stars (out of 5) and still finish a song, though it might be possible, 
 so for the most part you will get 3-5 stars (and on expert there is a Gold 5 star to obtain) . 
 
  
  At the end of some songs are a 'big finish' where you either get to scream whatever you want or 
 hit has many random notes on the guitar or drums to rack up points. You then have to finish it 
 by playing the last few notes perfectly.
  
  There are 4 modes to play on. Easy, Normal, Hard, and Expert. Each level increased the number of 
 notes and how fast the notes come at you. In the case of the guitar parts, Easy only has 3 buttons, 
 Normal 4, and Hard and Expert all 5. For vocals the difficulty effects how easy it is for you to 
 stay on pitch and chain phrase combos. 
  
  Opposed to other rhythm games though, the modes are not progressive. For example, a song on Expert 
 might be easier than a different song on Normal or Hard (example: Roxanne, by the Police - easy 
 even on Expert; Afterlife, by Avenged Sevenfold - played on Hard is much more difficult than Roxanne 
 on expert) .
  
  But before you start playing songs you have to make a character to play with. You can define Height, 
 Weight (sort of) , pick a face shape, hair, a 'behavior' (Like punk, rock, etc) that effects how 
 they behave on stage, and of course give them a name. 
  
  As you play songs, you will earn cash, which you take your character to a store and buy all sorts 
 of things to customize how they look. It is a fun diversion... but buying stuff and customizing 
 your character only have aesthetic changes on the game. So it isn't necessary if you don't want 
 to do it. 
  
  For some odd reason, RB doesn't let you create one person and have them play all the instruments. 
 Instead you will have to create a person for Guitar/Bass, another for Vocals, and another for Drums. 
 Each with their own money. Each that has to be customized independantly.
  
  There are a few different modes to play though, Solo Career, Training/Practice, Tug of War, Score 
 Mode, Band Multiplayer, and Band World Tour. Tug of War, Score mode, and Band Multiplayer can be 
 played online, but Band World Tour cannot...
  
  The Guitar, Drums and Vocals come with a Solo Career mode (why was Bass was left out?) that let 
 people get use to the songs and learn the parts. There is a leader board for each track to compete 
 against for high scores if you are the solo type of person. 
  
  Training/Practice lets you play any song you want, with any of the instruments, at 50% speed to 
 Full Speed (at 10% increments) . It lets you play the whole song, or just parts of it that you choose. 
 It only records your total percentage of notes hit though, and doesn't show you combos or even 
 how well you did in each section which is unfortunate. So you have to pay attention to the section 
 name when you are struggling to find out where you need to improve.
  
  Tug of War puts two people playing the same instrument in a battle against who can hit the most 
 notes with the best combos. Each person will play certain sections of the song. Some parts of the 
 song both will play. But for the most part one person does their thing, the next person does theirs, 
 you both jam in a few spots. Whoever strings the most together will win.
  
  Score mode is like tug of war, only both of you play the whole song. At the end the person who 
 has the best score wins. This isn't as much fun as tug of war because you focus on the song the 
 whole time, you don't have time to watch the other person really. 
  
  However, the meat of the game is the Band World Tour (BWT) . Basically the premise is you and at 
 least one other person (yep, you either need a buddy, or be able to play on instrument AND sing) 
 take the stage and travel the world playing as many gigs as possible. 
  
  Up to 4 people can be in a band at a time, and only 2 have to be present to continue the tour. 
 If you are planning to go it alone, I suggest creating the band with the Vocalist. That way you 
 can switch from guitar/bass to drums whenever you want and still play with the same band (seeming 
 the band creator always has to be present)
  
  There is a main path that takes you through getting a manager, a PR firm, a 'sound guy', new transportation, 
 etc... eventually leading up to being a Hall of Fame inductee and finally the 'Endless Setlist' 
 (The 'Endless Setlist' is a gig containing every main track song in the game. That's right, all 
 58 songs in one sitting, ouch) . You don't have to do every gig in every city to finish the main 
 path of the BWT. 
  
  Along the road you will earn fans for good performances or if you tank a song fans will leave. 
 There is a cap based on the difficulty you play at. That is to say, every time you 5 star a gig, 
 you might not get more fans if you were playing on easy. You eventually have to play on medium 
 to allow more fans to gather to your bands fold. You will have a maximum fan limit until you play 
 on expert. Fans don't really mean anything in the game, but it is kind of fun to see how many fans 
 you can accumulate.
  
  Band Multiplayer is the equivalent of playing one song at a time with friends. You still get scored 
 with the star rating and you can see who hit the best percentage of their part... along with some 
 'titles' given to different performances (like longest streak, most gutsy, etc) . There isn't any 
 completion to be had here though. Nothing tracks what you have or haven't played or your last score.
 
  
  Rock Band comes with an amazing Downloadable Content feature. Every week more songs are added. 
 Every song you download can show up on random setlists in the BWT or you can select them for the 
 'create your own setlist' gigs. They are also fun to play as simple multiplayer games. The DLC 
 has some pretty good variety, all the way from Heavy Metal to Soft Rock. It is nice to have so 
 many different options.
  
  On the Xbox360 the achievements range from playing though the solo careers on every difficulty 
 level to becoming an online tug of war champ... to finishing out the endless setlist on medium 
 to expert. A lot of the points come from playing every gig in BWT for each city to become 'big'. 
 For those only looking for quick points, this isn't the game to do it on.
  
  Rock Band is a very big and long game. It works great for parties and for groups of people. There 
 are some caveats to the game though: 
  
  1. If you are a master of Guitar Hero 3, Rock Band will be really easy in comparison when it comes 
 to the guitar. Also, the RB guitar feels quite a bit different if you have learned on the GH guitars. 
 And 'Big Finishes' are lame without the RB guitar finger taps.
  
  2. If you don't have anyone else to play with, most of the game is in Band World Tour. If you don't 
 like to do vocals, that eliminates over half of the game length for you right there or turns it 
 into a grind you won't have much fun doing.
  
  3. DLC can be viewed as 'expensive'. At typically $2 a song that's double than getting it from 
 iTunes. With the up-front cost of the band kit to begin with this can be a pretty expensive game.
 
  
  4. The instruments have been known to break or be faulty. I myself had a bad drum kit out of the 
 box. BUT, the technical support was quick and will actually send you a replacement set before you 
 send yours back. Shipping was free and quick. But it was kind of a downer to buy the game and wait 
 5 days before I could have a drummer.
  
  5. The track-list caters to the 'older' crowd I believe, or at least to those well versed in famous 
 Rock Titles from the 70's and beyond. There are more coming every day though and most of the songs 
 will grow on you even if you don't know them initially, but maybe that was just me.
  
  Myself speaking though I actually picked up GH3 after RB (and find GH3's difficulty annoying) , 
 love vocals, DLC and price wasn't a problem, I could deal with service, and the track-list is pretty 
 darn good (only 3 or 4 songs I don't like to play) . I would have liked Band World Tour to be online 
 though.
  
  So the short of it is this, if you haven't played it, you should. But you are not going to be able 
 to rent it and enjoy it due to the peripheral requirement. So if you are going to try it out before 
 you buy, you will need to find a friend that will invite you over and won't laugh at you as you 
 learn the ropes. 
  
  It can be a little scary to pick up a plastic guitar mold, do karaoke, or try to play drums for 
 the first time in front of someone who will do much better than you... but if they are nice people 
 and worth keeping as friends ;) you should have a pretty darn good time.
  
  Rock Bands positives outweigh any negative to be had in the package though... and with more songs 
 coming every week. Add in the promise that all RB DLC will be compatible in Rock Band 2 (as well 
 as the instruments) leaves little reason not to get this and get jamming, So I have to grade this 
 above the curve as an absolutely excellent game.
  
  PS: But for each caveat I mentioned above that you could not tolerate, minus 0.5 or so to find 
 the 'true' score for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't believe my eyes when Rock band released. It contained 4 instruments which included the 
 2 guitars, 1 drum set, and 1 microphone. Unbelivable! Once I got to play it with my friends it 
 was totally awesome!! Personally I would prefer the drums or the lead guitar. The thing that bothers 
 me is that if your playing by your self it is not that great. So that's why it is recommended that 
 you play with more people. The good thing about this game is that it has a variety of difficulties. 
 On the drums you'll have to beat the bottom of your drums to hit the note. This is one of the best 
 music games for the Xbox 360. I also heard from gossip that Rock Band was better than Guitar Hero 
 3 well in my oponion I would say that's not true because there both into different perspectives. 
 Guitar Hero is more for deep rock music. And Rock band would be more for a Rock Music for everyone 
 if you know what I mean. Guitar Hero 3 would be best suited for single player. Rock Band would 
 be suitable for multiplayer fun. But this is just in my opinion people take it in a different way. 
 Anyways... mind blowing fun on Rock band makes this game have a mixed reaction since there are 4 
 diferent instruments to choose from and tons of songs to play on. Great Game!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joethehippo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Rock band, a great game in all. With just the right amount of difficulty and 4 different instruments 
 to make your choice, there is always a part for everyone. From band quick play to tug-of-war, from 
 world tour to score duel, and all the way to the solo tour, this game always has something else 
 to be accomplished. 
  
  First, lets start with the solo tour. There are only two noticeable downsides to this game mode, 
 the first being the fact that you can't play as a bassist. The other being that there is no friend 
 to enjoy it with. That's ok though, because this is a great mode if you don't have any siblings 
 or friends who come to your house often enough, and it's a great, fun, and fast way to unlock new 
 songs. Use all three instrument tours for fastest results.
  
  Score Duel is a mode you can play local or online, and it involves a thrashing and smashing music 
 duel between you and a friend, or you and another random person from Norway you've never met before. 
 This mode is a true test of your skills, and you can compete with anybody you want.
  
  Now, for the epitome of all Rock Band, and the reason this has gotten a 9.5 from me. Band World 
 Tour. This mode involves you and 1 or more friends gearing up and hitting the road for an all out 
 rock fest. Earn fans and start in playing local bars in you hometown, then earn your first van. 
 Then a tour bus, and then, if you really want to travel in the lap pf luxury (and get to Europe 
 (or America) ) you can earn your Jet. Play multiple gigs in every town, from all-town heroes set 
 lists, to custom set lists, to randomized ones, go through your baptism by fire- earning as many 
 stars as you can. each time you complete a gig, you earn fans, and the better you do the more you 
 get, but be warned. Complete and utter failure will mean a loss of you main source of income.
 
  
  This- This is the majesty that is Rock Band. If you don't already own this game, you need to- and 
 soon. I highly recommend going for the entire box set that includes all the instruments- its the 
 best deal.
  
  So what are you waiting for?!?!?!? Strap on your stupid and GET MOVING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tillsta06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  After playing the Guitar Hero series, I'm sure we all wanted to know what it would be like if we 
 could play other instruments. At least, that would be the thoughts of us wannabe-rockstars, anyway. 
 
  
  Also, I'm sure while listening to music of your favourite band you imagine yourself and your friends 
 playing the music as that band. Well don't worry. Rock Band allows you to do just that!
  
  EA/Harmonix's Rock Band allows to play Guitar, Bass, Drums, and also allows you to provide the 
 vocals.
  
  This all works in a very similar way to the GH series, as you hit a series of notes as they appear 
 on the chart on the screen. You do this using the help of some fantastic new peripherals. Probably 
 the most impressive of the new peripherals is the Drum kit, which we will talk about in a little 
 while. With Rock Band, you also get a brand-spanking new guitar modelled after the Fender Stratocaster, 
 which looks and feels superb when compared to the GH guitars.
  
  The guitar features two sets of five fret buttons. The first set are at the top of the guitar neck, 
 and are similar to the GH guitar's frets. The second lot of frets are new 'Solo Frets', which are 
 supposed to help you rock out during those impressive solos. This second set appears at the bottom 
 of the guitar neck, and the buttons are much thinner and narrower than the other set. The guitar 
 also features an effect switch and whammy bar. It all seems to work as you'd expect after playing 
 the Guitar Hero series.
  
  The microphone provided is a standard RB USB mic, which you are required to use for the vocals. 
 But ultimately, its the drums where most of the weight of this heft product lie. The drums feature 
 four pads and a bass pedal, which are all fantastic and innovative. The drums are easily the most 
 attractive area of Rock Band if you can afford them, but they aren't always that great in fairness.
 
  
  While the drums may seem to be doing exactly what they should be doing at first (when you're not 
 particularly good) , a lot of the time you will hit a note on the pads which don't seem to register. 
 This can be very frustrating as you get further on in the game, when this issue breaks note streaks, 
 and prevents you getting high scores. The bass pedal also seems to need a good deal of pressure 
 applied to really work properly, which can also get frustrating for the same reasons.
  
  The actual game feature various modes. But the mode where the game really excels is 'Band World 
 Tour', where a group of 2-4 people get together and play in a virtual band, simulating the songs 
 on the game. You each create a unique character which is then locked to a specific instrument, 
 and then begin a complete World Tour, gaining fans along the way. As you progress in 'Band World 
 Tour', you will unlock more gigs and venues, as well as being able to hire roadies and such.
  
  This mode is the real base of the game, but can only be done if you have friends or family 
 that can regularly play the game with you. The only way to play this mode solo is to sing using 
 the mic or Xbox Live Headset and play either the drums or guitar at the same time. But this really 
 takes away from the fun, and the fact that this is a multiplayer game.
  
  But don't worry, if you are only able to play solo you won't miss out. Though the extremely entertaining 
 BWT mode cannot be played solo, you can progress through a 'Solo Tour', which basically uses the 
 same mechanics and structure of the GH series, where you would play different songs in different 
 tiers. While this is still fairly entertaining, its best just to be used as a practice base when 
 you're unable to play the BWT mode, as it features no real depth or storyline. 
  
  The Solo Tour features support for lead guitar, drums, and vocals, each with difficulties ranging 
 from easy to expert. Songs will appear in different tiers depending on which instrument you are 
 playing.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the GH series. In fact, playing the guitar is just like playing 
 GH, but the charts seem much better and more in to the music itself. The drums require you hit 
 each pad as a note as it travels towards you. You are also required to push down the bass pedal 
 as a wide orange line appears on the chart. The vocals require you to sing in-pitch with the song, 
 and use the mic as a tamberine in different stages of a track.
  
  As you get a longer streak of notes, you will gain a higher multiplier, which will go up to 4x, 
 unless in overdrive. The game also features 'big rock endings', which allow you to finish the song 
 in any way you see fit.
  
  The soundtrack on the game is fantastic, featuring songs ranging from various ages on rock music. 
 The game features songs from older bands such as Metallica, The Rolling Stones and Iron Maiden, 
 and much newer music from the likes of Muse, The Killers and Red Hot Chilli Peppers.
  
  Don't worry, though, as the soundtrack will never get boring. Featuring over 60 songs on the disc 
 alone, theres plenty of DLC available via the Xbox Live Marketplace, which is updated weekly to 
 keep the Rock Band experience alive longer and longer.
  
  The game also supports online modes, allowing you to play with three others players across Xbox 
 Live in a random band, or the Tug of War game, where play a ToW match while playing the music. 
 Unfortunately, theres no Band World Tour online support, which may be disappointing to discover 
 for some, though Harmonix have said that they are trying to fix this issue, but with talks of Rock 
 Band 2 already, its unlikely that this will be a supported feature in this game.
  
  Overall, while it does feature very few minor issues, Rock Band is a fantastic and innovate music 
 rhythm game using some great new peripherals. Its fantastic Band World Tour mode will make sure 
 you don't lose your social life, and the amount of DLC available will keep this game going for 
 a very long time. Get ready to rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starface33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I have had Rock Band since Christmas and everything has been going swell. With the constant Downloads 
 every week there is new types of styles to learn. (As Dumb as it sounds its true.) This game is 
 amazing, don't get me wrong. But I still see some flaws. *cough* Needs more Fall of Troy and Alice 
 In chains, but I digress. The whole idea of a game that lets you play guitar, bass, drums, and sing 
 is pretty good. But why does so much of the stuff come in faulty and broken? But anyway with the 
 game problems. Not much but there is some. For instance when I am playing with my buds and I am 
 playing drums, there is some times where my buds fail right as I am about to to a drum fill. When 
 this happens, the notes you would originally hit start appearing. Which could lead into some trouble 
 if you yourself are down in the red. Also when I am singing I swear there are some times when I 
 am hitting the right pitch and the little arrow is going a wire. Not much else I can think of. 
 So if you are looking for a fun game to play with your friends to last you for a while you have 
 just found it. (If you can afford it that is. Also another minor problem.) Also for the difficulty, 
 it depends. If you play Guitar Hero then playing Guitar is easy. If you play Karaoke Revolution 
 singing is easy, If you played one of those various drum games before this came out drumming is 
 usually easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is the latest and greatest out of former Guitar Hero developer Harmonix. Rock Band is 
 a musical simulation game that combines guitar, bass, drum, and vocal parts into one experience.
 
  Rock Band is a great game. It boasts a spectacular set list, great customization for characters, 
 and all together a great game that gets you involved with actual people instead of a mysterious 
 online face.
  There is a single player quick play mode as well as a career. In the career, you take one of the 
 instruments and progress through harder and harder songs until the end, all the while unlocking 
 clothes and instruments while accumulating money for additional accessories.
  The real fun is the Band World Tour mode, where two to four players can start a local band and 
 rise to stardom by playing more and more gigs and gaining more stars and fans. They earn money 
 as well to get new digs and cooler instruments just like in the Solo Tour. Unlike the solo career, 
 the Band World Tour has more concert-esque events, where your band must play a number of songs 
 with only a few moments to rest. One of these, the endless setlist, is a setlist that contains 
 all of the songs in the game, which comes down to about five hours of playtime to finish the set.
 
  Another great feature of Rock Band is the downloadable songs. Each week, three songs are made 
 available. Also, there are two full albums that have been released, with more on the way.
  Rock Band is the best game for a group of friends or a party, despite its steep price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alecjustice
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, this game is awesome. Just a few flaws keep it from being great. Of course 
 with all of these types of games, just to many songs I've never heard of. You end up playing through 
 a crapload of songs, bored to death of the mostly crappy generic and WAY too easy guitar and vocal 
 riffs and verses, whilst struggling with stupid songs you've never heard of on drums. until you 
 unlock Enter Sandman, Welcome home, and I'm So Sick. Then, once you get done playing those, you 
 pretty much quit playing the game all together. Most every bonus songs were done by local bands, 
 around the area that the company was located. I would much rather have some well known songs on 
 my game. 
  
  Drums are quite hard, and no one ever wants to play it, which means at most partys i play at no 
 one is good at drums so it takes longer for everyone to play. Guitar and vocals are too easy, a 
 first time singer in my family beat expert on her first try. If your an above average player ont 
 the guitar, then I recomend guitar hero, because when you play with other people, you limited on 
 song choice when everyone else sucks, because most of the songs, no one knows the words, or the 
 drum pattern is to hard. You'll end up playing Creep, or I Think I'm Paranoid over and over. Calibration 
 can get to be a problem, too. Calibrating is hard at first, as it is not throughly explained.
 
  
  Another problem is that Band World Tour is only available offline and multiplayer. I thought the 
 whole idea of this game was to be able to make a band. And the loading screens just show your characters 
 name on single player. You end up playing with the same style of gameplay as Guitar Hero, which 
 is a serious letdown. I wanna start a band. Band World Tour is awesome, but the multiplayer only 
 option leaves you feeling empty when no one else around wants to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the package. I have passed the game on Hard on the Guitar and on Medium on the Drums. 
 I have spent 30+ hours playing this game, mostly on the solo tour. 
  
  This game looks great, plays great, has tons for you to do with friends. I wish there was on online 
 co-op band tour because then I would still be playing this game as much as I did when I first bought 
 it. 
  
  I haven't had any peripheral issues with the exception of my RB guitar not turning on Overdrive 
 as responsively as my GH guitar does. If you have tons of friends, you will get your money's worth 
 of gameplay. And even if you don't, singing and drumming on your own is enough to get you what 
 you paid for.
  
  If you have never played Guitar Hero, this is a great alternative for those who want an easier 
 time playing the guitar. I cant pass 2 songs on Hard in GH3 but I only need 2 more songs on Expert 
 on Rock Band to pass the solo tour. 
  
  Playing the drums is so much fun, but it gets hard way to fast. I am trying to pass it on hard 
 and the foot pedal notes followed immediately by a drum note is killing me. 
  
  Singing is also fun because you dont need a great voice you just cant be tone deaf. 
  
  Buy 
 this game if you have not done so already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aven13
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  -Band World Tour mode is ridiculously fun
  -Just about any USB microphone (or even your headset) that you have works for vocals
  -Plenty 
 of songs, almost all of which use the band mechanic to its fullest
  -Core gameplay from the Guitar Hero franchise is still here
  -Song marketplace is always brimming 
 with new content
  -Customization is unrivaled by just about anything out there today
  
  Cons:
  -Graphics are painfully average
  -Most guitar, bass, and vocal songs are too easy for 
 the non-casual player
  -Drum tracks range from hard to ridiculously hard, unless you're an expert or actually play the 
 drums
  -Calibration, no matter what, always felt a bit off for me
  -Many hardware reliability issues in the drums and guitars
  -Band World Tour is offline only
 
  -Most of the achievements are in Band World Tour, so if you game solo, don't expect too much pointage 
 from this game
  
  
  Rock Band is the music game for people who want to sing, or play drums. A. K. A., the Guitar Hero 
 rejects. Just kidding; I hope I didn't piss you all off. It's a fun game in its own right, but 
 there are some definite issues, and many are actually very simple. But first, let's look at the 
 positives; there are many as well.
  The 58-song setlist covers just about any genre that a music junkie would enjoy. Not only this, 
 but the constantly updated DLC (with its own separate marketplace as well) is almost always fresh, 
 and easy to download. The songs, however, are usually either too easy for guitar, bass, and vocals, 
 and too hard for drums. There are some exceptions, but I usually found this to be the case.
  The main draw is the Band World Tour mode. In it, two, three, or four rockers can form a band, 
 rock some shows, and play in a never-ending quest to reach rock stardom. Surprisingly, this is 
 offline-only; unacceptable for this day and age. The single-player tour plays just like the Guitar 
 Hero games, with a few songs in each locale, leading up to a final performance in Moscow. There 
 are also separate setlists for "encore" songs, as well as DLC songs. Overall, the experience is 
 very Yay!; I just wish that it was more online-compatible.
  Customization was my favorite part of the game. You can customize EVERYTHING: from the gender and 
 name to the color of the shoelaces, it's all under your control. Better yet, you can even customize 
 most guitars with custom decals and the like: perfect for the guitar-junkie in all of us.
  Online multiplayer is in the form of band quickplay, with your Live buddies or with that random 
 guy who sounds like "Phil" on "To Catch a Predator". There are also a few other modes like Tug 
 of War, Score Duel, etc.: standard fare, if you've ever played a music game before.
  Graphically, the game is just O. K. Sure, the character models and instruments are alright, but 
 the game always feels so, what's the word, scripted. There just isn't any "Yay!" in the graphics 
 for me.
  The problems don't stop at the graphics. For starters, many of the achievements are World Tour-specific, 
 meaning that if you don't have a brother or sister, or a close friend, or someone who can play 
 the game with you on a constant basis, your Gamerscore for this game is screwed. Also, as I said 
 before, the drum tracks always feel to hard, and the guitar, bass, and vocal tracks always feel 
 too easy. This isn't a huge complaint for me: after all, this may be because I have played Guitar 
 Hero for the past year-and-a-half, have "Karaoke Revolution" for the PS2, and have barely ever 
 touched a drumset. But there are problems for the guitar parts as well. The game always feels a 
 bit off in timing your strums (or pad-hits) , even when calibrated. If you've ever played a Guitar 
 Hero game with performance mode on, you'll know what I'm talking about. Finally, a problem with 
 the hardware itself. From broken drum-pedals to faulty guitars, Rock Band instruments have been 
 notorious for breaking down. There is a free warranty service, but only for sixty days after purchase. 
 In fact, MY guitar broke down, and I had to send it in for a replacement. My cousin's did as well, 
 but by the time it did, the sixty days were up. Not-Yay!
  To close, Rock Band is a great game. If you love, like, or just want to try a music game, pick 
 it up. And even though it has many flaws, just about everyone, from the casual n00b to the elite 
 veteran of many Guitar Heroes, will find something to love. See Ya!
  
  -Aven13
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Deepblue
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix created Guitar Hero a few years back and made the rock music genre a hit in rhythm based 
 video games. After making two guitar jamming games in their famous Guitar Hero series, the company 
 decided to take it a step further by creating a game that allows simulation of a complete functioning 
 rock band. The result is Rock Band.... one of the best music games ever made, and a must play multi-player 
 experience for this generation of consoles.
  
  Rock band allows players to sing, play guitar, bass, and drums. Each instrument can be played in 
 solo tour mode where you conquer each of the game's 60 tracks one by one with your instrument of 
 choice. Anyone familiar with karaoke video games may instantly be ready for singing. The game judges 
 your singing by pitches and how well you execute the actual lyrics. Some sections in the song allow 
 the singer to tap the mike to add more sound and some sections allow for freestyle singing where 
 there are no lyrics in that particular part of the song. The guitar plays a lot that of the Guitar 
 Hero games. The buttons are rectangular instead of a shield kind of shape from the Guitar Hero 
 games, so it may feel a little different at first. The strumming tab no longer clicks, and may 
 feel a bit flimsy at first for those of you who are used to Guitar Hero's guitar. The top of the 
 guitar has five buttons that are used for executing the guitar notes in the songs. The bottom of 
 the guitar contains 5 thinner buttons used for executing bass notes in the songs. Perhaps the most 
 interesting instrument and the instrument with a wider learning curve is the drums. There are 4 
 total drum pads and a foot pedal. If you're really singing your heart out, rockin hard, groovin 
 on bass, or annihilating the drum notes, you can really get hot on stage. To complete a song you 
 have to make sure you are always staying high on the rock meter on the left of the screen. Some 
 freestyle singing parts and custom drum solo parts in the songs, if executed well, will give the 
 player playing power that will make them jump far up the rock meter and even save other members 
 in the band that have already been booed off stage. If the crowd is unhappy for too long, the entire 
 band will suffer and be kicked off the stage. The result will be losing some fans that your band 
 has gained in the world tour mode. World tour mode is basically the game's co-op campaign mode. 
 You and other band mates will travel across the globe performing songs from the game's set list. 
 It can be a bit repetitive because you'll often have to perform the same songs within just a couple 
 of gigs of each other. Some gigs are little gigs that get you some dough and a few new fans. Some 
 gigs will get you cool prizes, major recognition, and the right to travel to new places and perform. 
 
  
  Rock Band is a very very good looking game. The character animations are fantastic on stage. The 
 game allows you to create and customize your own character. You have hundreds of selections when 
 it comes to shirts, shoes, pants, instruments, hairstyles, and jewelry. You also get to choose 
 what sort of rocker your character is, which will determine how they act on stage to a certain 
 song. The level of customization is off the charts when compared to the Guiatr Hero games. As well 
 as the animation, graphics, and great stage effects. The crowd is also infinitely more interesting 
 and better looking. My gripes about the game is mainly concerning the peripheral. I urge you to 
 accept any warranties that are offered if you decide to purchase Rock Band. It may pay off in the 
 long run. While this is a game made for rocking out, please don't get to rough with your instruments, 
 they're fragile. Personal problems with my peripheral include the drums not registering notes that 
 I clearly hit, a broken foot pedal, rattling sound in the guitar, guitar using star power without 
 me even moving it, and rattling in mic. Aside from the peripheral issues, this game is worth your 
 time and money if you like these kind of games. You'll get a better value if you have friends and 
 family who you think would love to play as well. Or if you have Xbox Live. I do urge you to spend 
 your money cautiously on this game and get a warranty as well. Now go out and rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay to start things off, this game is absolutely amazing. Just the fact that you can have a real 
 band on the game is great. You can play guitar just like in guitar hero and bass the same. But 
 to add to all of that you can play drums, which is REALLY fun and you can also sing.
  The songs on this game vary but are all such a great choice. From Welcome Home to Green Grass and 
 High Tides to Foreplay/Long Time. If you want more songs, you can go online and buy more songs 
 to add to your collection.
  The game-play for this game is great. You can play solo and master singing, guitar, or drums. Then 
 if you have friends over, you can rock the wolrd in a Band World Tour.
  This game really has it all, from having amazing single player to amazing multiplayer. To the songs 
 to the merchandise you can win!
  You def. need this game in your collection for fun and a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machew100
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Rock band is not as great for just guitar, because it catches notes about 80% as much as guitar 
 hero 3 does, which can be frustrating... Then again, if you just bought the drums and game it's 
 great for solo stuff, but if you're mainly aiming to have a more stable guitar game I'd definitely 
 go with guitar hero... The only way rock band is better is if you either at least have drums, or 
 fork up the money to buy all 4 and play it with your only 3 other friends. In addition, rock band's 
 guitar controller has super thick frets, and not to mention there's no click noise when you strum 
 so it's harder to keep in time. It also feels like the strumming bar doesn't really have as much 
 of a defined up and down position, there's a lot of wiggle room when you strum so sometimes you 
 think you're doing fine but the little wiggle in your strum bar tricks you sometimes when you think 
 you've made a complete up or downstroke you really haven't. The only bonus with the rock band guitar 
 controller is the 'solo' frets and the toggle switch that changes the guitar sound when you initiate 
 'overdrive' aka star power. The drums need a reinforced metal bass pedal or something like I have 
 (i got mine off ebay) , it will break eventually, especially if you have people who never play drums 
 and slam the kick pedal with their foot everytime and stomp it until it cracks in half. Guitar 
 hero is a more competitive and flashy version with higher difficulty songs straight out of the 
 box (rock band has super hard songs for download i. e. the song thrasher, look it up on youtube...) 
 Rock band gives you more customizability as far as your character's looks etc, but guitar hero 
 still has some outfits to keep things fresh, not to mention a bunch of bizarre guitars... In terms 
 of fun/challenge guitar hero has got songs directly charted and picked for the guitar, while rock 
 band has some compromising songs to pick well-rounded difficulty for all 4 instruments in the case 
 everyone ends up playing it... Maybe this is more than you wanted to read, but maybe it's exactly 
 what you wanted to know, so good luck on choosing and I hope this helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themilkypirate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  Ah, Rock Band. I got this game with very high expectations. And, guess what? They were totally 
 fulfilled in full when I played this addictive game that lets you live the life of a Rock Star 
 alone, or become the world's hottest Rock Band with friends.
  
  Now, for one, the replay value of this game is amazing, much like Guitar Hero. One could sit there 
 for hours playing the same f*&%ing song and not get bored; hell, you could play the same song on 
 different instruments of one feels inclined.
  
  Being a drummer that has beat over 95% of the songs on Expert, I know what I'm talking about when 
 I say the drums make the game. Innovative, and utterly fun, they bring a new spice to the game 
 that it needed to prevail over Guitar Hero, even if it does make incessant tapping noises.
  
  The only bad thing I have to comment on about this game is setting up your playing space and 
 some Live glitches. Sometimes, when one is rocking out on Live, some f&%^ing intrinsic error will 
 cause you to lag out or one of your members to stop playing. It makes you want to f$^% a dwarf 
 in the beard. That, and when playing with 3 other people, space can sometimes be an issue.
  
  Overall, I give this game high praise. Once this game is done with you, you'll have absolutely 
 no life at all! Huzzah, rock on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3A3L3O
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Now I'm going to skip all this goo goo ga ga stuff about..."Is it worth the price?" or "Is it REALLY 
 better than Guitar Hero?". Becasue I can tell you now that both answers are indeadly correct.
 
  
  Now lets actually talk about the game...
  
  There is a Solo Career Mode where you basicly play at diffrent difficulty levels. The only part 
 this supports is the achievements and some money, so basicly this is just something to train your 
 self to play higher difficulties. Other than that Solo mode is just an add on to the game it's 
 self.
  
  The main atraction is of course the Band World Tour Mode. Basicly you and your band mates are starting 
 out as a backyard band and begin to make your way towards stardome! You play gigs, get money, jets, 
 busses, all that good stuff and basicly it's never ending which is really cool! The only part that 
 is annoying about it is that you have to change difficulties farther into the tour or else you 
 can't gain any more fans.
  
  Now the things that seperates this game from Guitar Hero are...
  
  The Graphics: They are more 
 outstandind than any GH game ever. When you see your self in the backgound completely rocking out, 
 it gives such a great feeling to your gameing.
  
  The Creating Your Own Character: You begin with just some old boring guy with a guitar and a hair 
 doo, dosen't seem like much right? Well this is where the money in the game fits in. You use your 
 money to buy crazy stuff like goth clothing and punk and get completely awsome guitars!
  
  Basicly this game is the greatest gaming experience you will have towards rythm games. 
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Hey GS,
  
  Id like to put down how I Score games (this is important if you want to understand why my score 
 is so 'low') :
  1 - Utter rubbish
  2 - Utter rubbish
  3 - rubbish
  4 - average
  5 - Good
  6 - Pretty good
  7 - Great
  8 - Greater than 7
  9 - Awesome
  10 - so great 
 ill never review a game that's this good... period.
  
  Rock band is quite possibly the most expensive game i have ever bought... not that i care of course 
 as im a spoiled 17 year old... lol. Rock band hits the UK market at 160ish. You may be thinking 
 "but the american rock band was only $160". Well yes, we do have to pay double, but who cares? 
 This is why its worth it.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphically, RB is very nice. It is a step up from GH3 in both visual WOW and in Animation. Whilst 
 GH3 was had terrible lip sync, drum animation and couldn't get the characters to play in time with 
 what your doing, RB looks like you are making a real contribution because what you play is what 
 your character plays. Very nice to watch. Another good thing animation wise is the lip sync. The 
 singer really looks like he is singing. It's pretty amazing actually. My final good points has 
 to be how the singer interacts with the band, he/she will get the Lead Guitarist to sing back to 
 back with him if you are doing well, he will dance around and just generally mess around with the 
 band on stage... like most singers. Finally, the camera is fantastic. Instead of only fixing on 
 your character, it has a music video feel to it, getting close ups of each band member, the entire 
 band and getting into really cool angles to portrait the band. However, that is also the games 
 biggest graphical let down. It has a recording look to it, so it has grain and motion blur. This 
 at first looks cool, but it just doesnt look right. 
  
  SOUND
  
  Its a music game... so the sound has to be good to be successful. And it is very good. I liked all 
 the songs on the game, although i hated playing some of them. It has 45 licensed tracks, most of 
 which are studio versions done by the band, however there are a few covers such as Run to The Hills 
 by Iron Maiden... which as good a song it is... is a really bad cover on the vocals... they should 
 have gotten Bruce Dickinson to do it, or not done it at all... the singer tries... but ultimately 
 fails. Overall however, a solid song list with songs comming from the 50's (i think) to now. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Rock Band comes with 1 guitar, 1 drum set and a mic. Each instrument can be 
 used to play through a solo career (meaning 4 careers including bass) , and you can go Multi player 
 and have 4 instruments playing at once with friends. This is how Rock Band should be played. Having 
 at least one other person to play with improves the game by huge amounts, and having the full 4 
 is just amazing. The multiplayer world tour is a never ending mode where you and your friends tour 
 the world gaining new modes of transport, fans, groupies and new venues. However, you will find 
 your self repeating the same songs over and over because of the fact it only has 45 songs. This 
 isnt a problem really, and since you can download a pile of albums on the marketplace that are 
 useable in this mode, you can have fun with friends for months on end. The one downside is the 
 guitar, i love it because as a model, it is 100X better than the GH3 controller. It is bigger, 
 more realistic and just looks and feels better. However, playing it is a different story. It is 
 no where near as precise as the GH3 controller, so id advise using that controller if you have 
 one. Im sticking with the RB controlls, because im hard core. The drums are really good. It feels 
 like your playing the drums, which is what it should be like, my issue is the reposniveness, it 
 doesnt always pickup the note you are hitting, which can frustrate you slightly but nothing that 
 would make you fail a song. I dont like singing, and havent even heard myself singing, so the mic. 
 has been unused by me, but friends have said its almost perfect. 
  
  OVERALL
  
  This is a multiplayer game, and a very good 1 at that. If you have the money, and friends, buy 
 this game. If you don't have the friends, buy it, but prepared to be slightly disapointed. 
  
  I was tempted to give it my 1 and only 10 and then i snapped to my senses. 
  
  8/10, im 
 pretty sure thats my highest mark ever... this only applies with friends.
  
  7/10 without friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maraos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The first music/guitar game I ever played was Guitar Hero 3, which seemed like the coolest thing 
 ever. This was before I rented Guitar Hero 2 and found the games far to similar, and I am someone 
 who truly hates rehashes and to be honest it is really unacceptable to take a game and just update 
 the graphics. ANYWAYS, I found that the developer of Guitar Hero 1 and 2 (Harmonix) Was making 
 a new game to match GH3 and I was immediatly really anxiously waiting for the game that tried something 
 new. When I heard that in Rock Band you would be able to play not just guitar and bass, but sing 
 and drum too I was shocked. I finally got my hands on the game a couple weeks ago because the price 
 is one of the biggest problems of the game. After I had sat down and played it with some friends 
 I really found out how amazing the game is, it not only sucks you into the experiance with great 
 instruments and music but it also has a great sense of customization. It is really the image of 
 what a top of the line music game should be like, and if this was not enough the game offers weekly 
 downloable content which will always keep it fresh. This is the ultimate party game and should 
 be a must buy. 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_hammer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band, how do I love thee?
  Let me count the ways.
  1
  2
  3
  4
  Yeah four.
  
  Rock band is a rhythm game made to resemble a four piece band. The four parts are guitar, bass, 
 drums and vocals. There are two specialized controllers, the drums and guitar, which were made 
 to resemble the instruments they represent. The guitar controller is used to play both the guitar 
 and the bass. The drums are made to simulate a 5 piece drum set, and there is a microphone used 
 for the vocals. The game is played against the backdrop of a customizable 3D rendered band playing 
 to dozens of licensed rock tracks.
  
  There are three different single player campaigns, the guitar, the drums, and vocals. Each campaign 
 has 4 different difficulty levels and is a great way to practice the instruments and familiarize 
 you with the song list.
  
  There is a decent character customization that allows you to create and dress your very own rocker. 
 It's not as robust as some of the create-a-wrestler modes, but there are many different rock outfits 
 that you can deck out your character with. You simply earn money by playing song through the single 
 player modes, and band world tour.
  
  Where this game really is outstanding is the multiplayer. When you're standing next to your friends 
 and pretending to play some of your favorite rock songs it's an awesome experience. Parties absolutely 
 light up when this game gets cranking.
  
  You can either play a quick song or embark on the band world tour mode. The band world tour mode 
 simulates the experience of building a rock band. You go from gig to gig gaining money and fans. 
 As you gain more fans the venues get bigger and so does the pay. Along the way you'll gain things 
 like a manager, a tour bus, roadies, and even a plane.
  
  It cannot be stressed enough how amazing the multiplayer experience is with this game. The single 
 player modes are a decent amount of content on their own, but playing in a fake band with your 
 friends is priceless.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_reaper406
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh Guitar Hero.... Youv'e towered so proudly upon the throne of rythm based gameplay.... Don't 
 misunderstand me, we've had some great fun together.... It's just.... I need to see different games.
 
  
  To those of you who are heterosexually challenged, you may be predicting my new rythm game of choice 
 is Dance Dance Revolution. Wrong! Upon my travels to the mall, I was enchanted by the valor of 
 Best Buys Rockband demo. I proceeded to shattering the kneecaps of the children hogging the newly 
 designed guitar controller, drowning their cries of agony in the wonderous sounds OF ROCK! (Yes 
 I am a child hating sociopath)
  I was immediently hooked....
  
  As I'm sure we all know, Rockband is a musical party game in which four, or fewer players, can 
 play the various Rockband compatible instruments, including Guitars, and Drums! 
  
  Because Guitar hero has remained unrivaled in the rock related rythm department, I feel it is onlt 
 appropriate to begin the review with the guitar aspects of Rockband. At first glance, this new 
 controller is about as effective as President Bush's ability to publicly speak. The strumming function 
 felt delayed, and stiff, and the frets flat posture felt akward when pulling off hammer ons. Despite 
 my horrible first impressions, I quickly found myself utilizing Rockband's new controller in an 
 effective way! I was suddenly appeciating the strummer easy to grip posture, and silent strumming, 
 in contrats to Guitar hero's strumming which sounds like your abusing a squeaking dog. Hammer ons 
 also became easier as one masters the new guitar, as the flat buttons allow for quicker manuverability, 
 once mastered. 
  
  So, in contrast, Rockband's controller requires adaptation, yet when utilized, completely abolishes 
 the peices of sh*t commonly reffered to as "Guitar Hero controllers." 
  
  There is little to add regarding the singing aspect of the game, other than the songs f*cking ROCK! 
 The mechanics are similar to every other kareoke game on the market, however differs in the fantastic 
 song selection!
  Blue Oyster Cult, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Coheed and Cambria, the list of greatness goes on!
  
 Perhaps the greatest aspect of the songlist is the absence of talentless Metallica.... Hmmm.... 
 WHAT!?!?!? D*MMIT!
  Well... Despite possesing some sh*t (FALLOUT BOY!!!) , the soundtrack is simply phenominal.
  
 
  Perhaps the most anticipated aspect of Rockband is the Drum set controller, which works remarkably 
 well! The player must hit each successive drum, and base pedal note, steadily building up a multiplyer. 
 This gameplay element is by far the hardest, and deserves an attempt by any who purchases this 
 game, as a skilled drummer may lurk in the confines of anyone!
  
  One of the most welcome additions of Rockband is the extensive character creation feature, in which 
 characters can purchase a colossal amount of rock related clothing, and kick*ss instruments! The 
 player can create his character and undergo a world tour, In which your band can visit various 
 cities, and countries to perform. Its a very well developed game mode, as it offers the player various 
 groups of sets of songs to play. 
  
  From the Mind blowing introductory cutscene, to the sheer greatness of the "Endless Setlist," Rockband 
 is easily the best party game on the market! And honestly, who doesn't want to see your band rise 
 to greatness?
  I AM ANDREW! I AM THE FRONTMAN OF THE METAL BAND, PLAGUE! AND I ROCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zutolor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a awesome game, you can use the guitar, bass, mic or drums.
  But there are a couple of errors like the graphics aren't as good as good as Guitar hero III. And 
 some songs are pretty easy like I got 82% on Tom Sawyer on Expert, On my first try on Expert. But 
 in total it is an awesome game, fun to play with friends, and you can just play by your self and 
 it's still pretty fun. 
  You can also buy or get free songs if you have Xbox Live, and it has a good selection of songs.
 
  
  Game Play : 10
  Graphics : 7
  Sound: 10
  Value : 8
  
  
  And also be careful with the drums, my drums broke in 2 months
  
  Favorite song guitar : Highway 
 Star 
  Favorite song bass: Are You Gonna Be My Girl
  Favorite song mic: Ballroom Blitz/ Tom Sawyer
  Favorite song drums: Run to the Hills
  Favorite 
 song: Enter Sandman
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme2005
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 5:02 am PT
Review:  Ah Rock Band, many of my school friends were ecstatic over this game but for some reason all I 
 saw was another Guitar Hero with some peripherals tacked on. Indeed, after seeing the price tag 
 for the game and all of the kit that comes with it (drums, microphone, guitars etc.) , which totalled 
 almost double of that in the USA (we live in the UK) . I was shocked to find out they still wanted 
 it.
  
  Personally, I've never held much interest in these party games, but one day me and three other 
 friends played it in another friend's living room (I remember jokingly asking him if he had the 
 plastic audience behind the sofa to which I received a scornful sneer) . Sorry to say, but my first 
 impressions on the game were mediocre at best.
  
  Gameplay: OK, so my friend decided to put me on bass (pronounced "base" for some obscure reason) , 
 and I sure enough I was looking at an exact same style as Guitar Hero, whereby a conveyor belt 
 of button commands moves to the screen foreground and you must press the buttons accordingly. Then, 
 I was given command of the drums, to which I was looking forward to. However, it worked on the 
 exact same principles as the guitar except with a footpad which had to be depressed when required.
 
  
  The singing part of the game made absolutely no sense to me; my friend was killing a song with 
 an awful voice but still managed to receive "Awesome" rankings just for hitting the right notes 
 and singing in the right pitch. I'm guessing you could practically sing a totally different song 
 but the game would still recognize your voice is in sync with theirs and still give you credit.
 
  
  On the other hand, the customization was sub par in my opinion: you could create an anorexic guitar 
 player with green hair and a huge black singer, and everything in-between. I also thought the fan 
 system whereby you lose fans if you suck or gain if you're moderate was very innovative, but it 
 was still evident that this still leaves much to be desired.
  
  Graphics: I can't really say much for the graphics since most of the time the background is static 
 albeit for a few pans of the audience or close ups of some band members. However, the lighting 
 was done particularly nicely, giving the feel you really are on stage performing.
  
  Sound: Ah, the sound. Incredibly important for these types of games, but there were only a few 
 songs I recognized. The others - in my opinion - were either 1/2 instrumental, 1/2 singing or just 
 plain weird. I recall one song being sung in German throughout which was practically impossible 
 to mimic due to pronunciations and whatnot.
  
  What's more, I couldn't even hear the sounds from the TV since the banging of the drums or droning 
 voices of my friends were muffling the sound. A "playback" option would have been a nice addition.
 
  
  Value: Here's where I think most will agree with me: paying huge amounts of money for the hardware 
 and the game is incredibly steep. So make sure you have a life, friends, and a large room with 
 a decent HDTV before forking over for the game. I'd imagine getting a refund for this game would 
 be extremely difficult.
  
  So in conclusion: if you're a die hard party game fan and you've played Guitar Hero, then you'll 
 find a lot to sink your teeth into in this game. But if you're unsure or never heard of Rock Band 
 before and are thinking of buying it then seriously consider missing this one out. I honestly can't 
 imagine what you'd do when you've 5 starred all the songs available.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael-Redd-22
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Since 2005 or so, the world has been taken by storm by a craze known as Guitar Hero. Featuring 
 songs and game play that puts any air guitarist to shame, it has quickly become a phenomenon. Harmonix 
 had great success with the first and second Guitar Hero, but decided it was time for a change. 
 That change was Rock Band. 
  
  First off, I'm going to write this review in the best way possible. First I'll explain how the 
 game looks, sounds etc, then I'll talk about the different instruments. 
  
  I'm not going to lie: Rock Band is far from being the best looking game on the 360. That's not 
 what Harmonix was going for when they made this game. Instead, they kept the trademark visuals 
 so famous in the Guitar Hero series. Obviously Rock Band has better visuals than GH I & 2, given 
 the power of the 360, but the best touch added is the different camera angles. Instead of focusing 
 so much on the guitarist, it gives a glimpse of the whole band, with different perspectives. Otherwise, 
 there really isn't a whole lot to comment on, since graphics are obviously not the point of music 
 based titles (for the most part) .
  
  Sound wise, this game is great. Then again, given the fact that this is a music based title, that 
 would be a horrible thing if it wasn't. 
  
  Finally, for the different modes. First is the Solo Mode, where you can play by yourself either 
 in Quick Play or in the World Tour Mode, where you play as your created character and make him/her 
 famous. Then there's the Multi-Player Mode, where you can play either online or off. There's also 
 a Tutorial Mode, where you can learn how to play all of the different instruments (and for the 
 most part the Tutorial is a great introduction to each instrument) .
  
  So here we are, to the instruments themselves. I'll start with the good ol' guitar and go from 
 there.
  
  Guitar- For the most part the guitar was already perfected in the first two GH games, but they 
 added a few minor touches here as well. Personally I find GH to be a bit better, but Rock Band 
 doesn't disappoint. It works well for the most part. However, I cannot stress just how much I hate 
 the Stratocaster packaged with Rock Band. The strum bar felt stiff, and the buttons on the bottom 
 that are made to help you during solos are too small for my huge fingers to help me in any way. 
 Of course, others might have an easier time with it, but for the time being I'm sticking with the 
 Les Paul packaged in GH3. So, in short, playing guitar is still as fun as ever, but it could use 
 some polish in future Rock Band titles. 
  
  Drums- A new instrument, and as fun as it is, it can also be very frustrating. The learning curve 
 isn't too bad, and before long you'll be drumming along with some of your favorite tunes. The drum 
 set consists of four pads and a foot pedal for the bass, which gives you the basic feeling of playing 
 a real set of drums. One problem you may have with the drums is the soreness that comes along with 
 playing them, though in time you'll get used to it. My major problem with the drums is the sensitiveness. 
 Sometimes even when I know I have the right timing, it says I missed the note, which can be extremely 
 frustrating. That's not so much a problem with the game as it is with my drums, so hopefully other 
 purchasers of this game got a little luckier. All in all, this isn't too bad an introduction to 
 the drums in Rock Band. 
  
  Microphone- The final instrument. I personally love using the microphone, not because I'm a great 
 singer, but because sometimes I like to just have some fun singing along like an idiot. While the 
 microphone isn't as sensitive as I'd like it to be at times, it still works well. You don't necessarily 
 have to sing the words like (though some parts do have you do just that) . Most of the times you 
 just have to get the tone and pitch of your voice right. Really the microphone can be a lot of 
 fun, and it works pretty well. 
  
  SO, the question that plagues most people's mind is this: is Rock Band worth the price? To this, 
 I say certainly. This is easily one of the best party games out there, and with all the different 
 instruments, the stellar catalog of songs already in the game, as well as the ones in the music 
 store for download, this is a game you could play for months and not get bored with. Despite some 
 design flaws, for the most part this is a great game, and is definitely worth purchasing. If this 
 is the future of music games, then I'm liking where it's headed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathias897
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Rock band has alot of positives and negatives. I'll break them down from the guitar to the songs.
 
  
  Guitar/Bass:
  If you're a big fan of the Guitar hero controllers, you most likely won't like this Guitar. The 
 buttons on the Stratocaster are more difficult to press down and make more noise then the strumbar. 
 Unlike the Guitar Hero guitars, The stratocaster has no clicker. So it may make playing with this 
 guitar more difficult for some. The Guitar Hero 3 Les paul and Guitar hero 2 X-plorer only work 
 on the Xbox 360 version of Rock Band. You can use those if you don't like the stratocaster. Although 
 I'm not for sure on how well they make them now, But for many players who got Rock Band on launch, 
 the Stratocaster can break.
  
  Microphone:
  The microphone is what will give some people trouble in rock band. It may take you a while to get 
 used to singing. Harmonix did a good job with the vocals and put in another kind of vocal, Static. 
 The normal style will show the pitch and the length of the singing. I think the static just shows 
 the words. You can also use a headset to sing, but the Rock Band mic will pick up your singing 
 better.
  
  Drums:
  the drums may be the most fun part about Rock Band, but harmonix is still having trouble getting 
 it right. THE DRUMS WILL BREAK! I promise that after a while the drums will break. Pedals snapping 
 and cracked drums seem to be the most common. At launch, many recieved deffective drums. The good 
 thing is that Harmonix will repair it for free.
  
  Gameplay:
  The timing window for Rock band is a little smaller then Guitar hero 2's timing window. For those 
 familiar with Starpower, it is now called Overdrive and only lights up the side of the screens. 
 The notes are rectangles and maybe take time adjusting to.
  
  Songs:
  Rock Band comes with 58 songs on the disc, but new content is availible every week. With great 
 artists like The Police, Nirvana, Metallica, Foo Fighters, Boston, Judas Priest, and the Red hot 
 chili peppers and more, makes rock band one of theMust Buy Rhythm games of 2008! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramitz
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  After a rather long and frustrating wait, the EU was finally given tickets to Rockband on the 23rd 
 of May. Rockband being EA's prime time foray (after Boom Boom Rocket) into the exciting world of 
 the rhythm game genre.
  
  With Guitar Hero being one of the biggest selling games of all time and the necessary guitar peripheral 
 sales bringing tidy amounts of profit it was only a matter of time before EA wanted a slice of 
 that pie, buying out the original creators of Guitar Hero -Harmonix.
  
  Rockband at first inspection seems nothing special other than an unimaginative rip-off but aims 
 and succeeds (for the most part) at doing everything in a better and bigger scale. Yes you can 
 play guitar along with tracks as you can in GH, but now you can also sing along just like in Singstar. 
 Still not enough? how about the ultimate selling pitch - drums. Who doesn't at sometime tap along 
 to whatever tune their hearing? Combine these assets along with every song on the disc being a 
 master track, unlike GH's rather dodgy covers. Huge customisation options and a truely endless 
 array of multi player options; online leaderboards, band world tours, score duels. You name it, 
 if you ever wished Guitar Hero could do something it didn't offer chances are Rockband has it.
 
  
  As there is ultimately 3 disciplines in Rockband, it makes sense for me to cover them each seperately.
 
  
  Guitar:
  If you ever played the Guitar Hero games previously you'll be right at home with how this system 
 works. Using either the game branded Stratocaster (or any of the GH guitars) a fretboard scrolls 
 down your screen with coloured dots indicating which of the corresponding buttons should be held 
 down on your controller and strummed according to the song in question.
  
  On easy levels you'll only be using 3 of the 5 buttons and more complicated manoeuvres such as 
 chords, hammer-ons and pull-offs are left well out of reach until you advance towards later difficulty 
 levels. The note lists are constructed well with otherwise quite boring songs being made fun and 
 endearing to play. 
  
  Rockband introduces the concept of guitar solos and BRE's (big rock endings) . If you're in possession 
 of the rockband strat then you can use the top frets without the need to stum the bar to build 
 your points up with great ease (and posturing) . 
  
  One major note of criticism however is the games implementation of hammer-ons and pull-offs. Guitar 
 Hero 3 recently made a great improvement to this with lowering the precision needed to perform 
 this technique and as a result improved the playability factor immensely. Here on Rockband however 
 it still feels very loose if it will register correctly. A minor gripe which can be overcome with 
 practise, but it still feels stuck in the past compared to where the GH series is now.
  
  It's also worth pointing out that compared to Guitar Hero 3 the game is quite a big deal easier. 
 While this might be good news to those that struggled even completing medium on that game, to those 
 who finished in the top scores on expert it's a real game shortner. Expert can be compared to Hard 
 and with the exception of some downloadable tracks all but 2 of the 45 standard songs on the disc 
 could be 5 starred on expert first go around.
  
  Microphone:
  Using either the official Rockstar microphone, any USB mic or even the 360 headset. The vocal mode 
 is a great addition to a game of this type. It works almost exactly the same as Sonys 'Singstar'. 
 With the words scrolling alongside pitchbars to which the aim is to sync up as close as possible. 
 Thankfully you don't have to sing in the same key as long as the pitch of the word is correct. 
 Occasionally you also have to strike the microphone in-time with a tambourine or cowbell, although 
 rare they are a fun addition and add to the illusion of being a front man in a rock group. 
  
  
  The problem with the singing option in the game is that as voice recognition isn't exactly 
 at the level of the human ear (if you have ever used naturally speaking on a PC you will fully 
 understand) . You can essentially spout any old nonsense and as long as the timing and pitch is 
 correct it will still register as correct. This makes the higher scores on the game leaderboard 
 suspiciously illegit and the truely talented singers using the game might feel a bit cheated as 
 a result. 
  
  This doesn't mean that it's easy though, getting high scores on even medium is a real challenge. 
 Expert being near on impossible. In terms of a multiplayer setting, having someone able to sing 
 vocals who might otherwise shy away from drums or guitar is a welcome option. 
  
  
  Drums:
  The drums for most if not all people are the major selling point for the game. Note patterns 
 fall in a similar fashion to that of the guitar with 4 drumpads and a kick pedal being the equivalent 
 of your coloured buttons on the guitar. 
  
  The note patterns are very accurate and realistic (only dismissing very fast kick triplets) and 
 those competent with playing drums in real life should be able to get through medium and hard modes 
 in a breeze. Expert is a whole different story however, there you'll need second by second analysis 
 of what's happening to prevent from failing miserably. 
  
  Luckily the practice mode for drums (as well as the other instruments) is incredibly useful with 
 the option to slow the song down in percentages and in real time rather than just slow & slower. 
 Compared to Rockband, it's a great improvement.
  
  The huge almost gamebreaking problem with the drums is infact the drums themselves. Obviously with 
 real electronic kits costing upto 1000+ a 70 kit isn't going to be quite as efficient. The problem 
 with Rockbands is that it's downright rubbish.
  
  The drum pads are incredibly loud & un-sensitive (going by an EL model - the standard for the EU) 
 and the red pad in particular (which acts as the snare) needs quite severe end user modification 
 to function effectively on any difficulty level past easy or medium. Completing a song with 98-99% 
 notes hit and still scoring only 3/5 stars due to the inability to keep a combo thanks to notes 
 not registering on the kit is about as emotionally draining and annoying as a user experience gets.
 
  
  America apparently have better made kits these days but having tried 3 different kits myself now, 
 it seems all kits being shipped in the EU have this problem. The kick pedal is also very fragile 
 and I personally found that the spring doesn't have enough push back. Playing through on expert 
 it felt like my ankle was doing the work of the spring most the time.
  
  Overall it's very disappointing, if your playing in a multiplayer group where getting a perfect 
 score isn't as important as passing then it's still fun to bash around on. But as the solo mode 
 is score-based here it fails miserably. A huge disappointment.
  
  Back to the game itself;
  
  I touched on the customisation options earlier on. Unlike in Guitar 
 Hero where you had to select from a handful of pre-rendered characters, here you really can create 
 your own rock god/goddess. A rockshop provides the front to decide whether your character is going 
 to be Rock, Metal or Goth and as a result offers haircuts, tattoos (which the user can layer and 
 edit) and clothes to make this person exactly how you envision. You buy and unlock further options 
 by earning money from completing songs in single and multiplayer career modes.
  
  The songlist tends to make or break the game and Rockband really pisses all over Guitar Hero in 
 terms of having the original songs on offer rather than cover versions. The online store is also 
 regularly updated every week and has something for everyone on offer at reasonable prices.
  
  The only criticism being that although a number of huge bands are represented it never seems 
 to be their most famous hits that are chosen as their game song. While sometimes this is addressed 
 in the additional downloadable track packs why they couldn't have been chosen as the on-disc song 
 comes across a bit miserly. It's also come to the point where 3 guitar hero games previous, alot 
 of 'big' songs have already been done per-se. A handful of tracks on Rockband have already appeared 
 on Guitar Heroes which makes playing through them another umpteenth amount of times somewhat tedious.
 
  
  The multiplayer options are outstanding. Band world tour encourages you to routinely get together 
 with the same people in the aim of increasing fans by performing songs and preset set-lists at 
 different difficulty levels. The only gripe about this is that there isn't an online function to 
 recruit band members as it has to be all done locally. Fine if you have people nearby competent 
 with the game, otherwise (like me) your screwed.
  
  There are single player online modes such as 'Score Duel' which has each player competing for the 
 biggest score, and 'Tug Of War' where the person who keeps a combo the longest comes out on top. 
 
  
  Although both fun, a game breaking problem with these is the ability for a player to quit out at 
 any moment. Rather than register as a win for the remaining player it simply just restarts them 
 back to the menu. Therefore. all the sore losers who four minutes through a song see no way of 
 coming back to win simply quit out preventing the other from a victory. 
  
  Why this hasn't been patched by now is beyond me considering the amount of time it's been out in 
 the US. Truly shocking. Other than going for achievements it makes you want to avoid these play 
 modes altogether and aim instead at improving you position on the solo scoreboards where other 
 peoples bad sense of sportsmanship won't ruin your game.
  
  Overall Rockband is certainly a fun and ambitious game. Despite poor quality and expensive peripherals, 
 easy guitar note charts and a less than stellar song listing, the improvements it still manages 
 to make over Guitar Hero are immense. 
  
  Due to these improvements, Guitar Hero are now introducing drums into the next iteration of their 
 own franchise as well as songs using master tracks. Until we can see how that pans out, it's more 
 than worth the money if your a fan of rhythm games (or music in general) to book a gig with Rockband. 
 
  
  Good: Numerous game options, master tracks, addition of vocals & drums to GH formula.
  
  Bad: 
 Difficulty swings towards the easy side, poor quality peripherals, no online band tour 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Wow, it's truely amazing how much time I have put into this game and how much it's worth every 
 penny that I paid for it. I was one of those people who scoffed at this game after I read about 
 it. Here I was thinking that this is a complete rip off of the already aging Guitar Hero series 
 with singing and drums. Who wants to sing much less play the drums? Who will really pay this much 
 for a game? It takes up too much space! Boy was I wrong! I went over to a friend house and played, 
 and I was hooked instantly. I went out the next day and bought it. I even took two days off from 
 work to play through the modes. Rock Band can be summed up this way, wicked addictive. That being 
 said heres the low down.
  
  So you get to create your own character which already makes it cooler the Guitar Hero, you join 
 a band and get to play around the world. You can either sing, play lead guitar, or drums in single 
 player. You have to play through all the songs in a set in order to move on. Depending on how well 
 you do depend on how much you get to spend in the Rock Store to spruce up your character. This 
 also works in multi player. You can create you own characters, create you own band name, and then 
 eithe go on line and get a fan base or play locally. There are a bunch of great songs in the line 
 up and they are even more expansive once you can down load some (which I have down loaded a lot) . 
 It's all from the Rock genre and sub genres within there. Further more most of them are master 
 tracks, and the cover bands do a really good job on their version as well. 
  
  The items that come with Rock band are durable, easy to use, but only work with Rock Band. Since 
 the guitar has already been explored with Guitar Hero we can compare those. I personally prefer 
 the Guitar with Rock Band only because it's more durable, it looks cooler, and it's easier to move 
 your grip around to hit the pesky orange button. Further more the game play exactly like Guitar 
 Hero does. Star power is now over drive, you have to hit the colors in order to play the song along 
 the track that moves in front of you. I think the graphics look better on Rock Band then Guitar 
 Hero. I also think the game sounds better. The difficulty isn't nearly as steep as Guitar Hero 
 3, it definate that Rock Band wants to bring in newbee's. So this is a good way to introduce people 
 to the genre if you are playing. 
  
  The best part about Rock band it that it can be played with 3 other people. This also adds tons 
 of replay. You can play through all gigs as any one of the other 3 versions of play. The game is 
 highly addictive especially the drums. It's hard to describe. They play almost the same as the 
 Guitar but not. It's just really fun, and they are probably the most difficult compare to the rest 
 of the game play options. I highly recommend going through the tutorial with that. 
  
  So it may be expensive but it's totally worth it. It takes where Guitar Hero left off and makes 
 it, fresh, fun, and easy to pick up and play. I high recommend this game to vetrans and newbees. 
 It's great for all ages. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rav44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I got Rock Band for Christmas last year. (About the time it had been released. It is totally amazing, 
 but just like every game it can get boring after a while, unless with friends who love music. It 
 has amazing music for my style and i pretty much just listen to everything, but i like to spread 
 it out meaning that i don't like the same kind of music being played over and over. Though, a warning 
 for Guitar Hero 3 lovers, you will not find the dull heavy metal in Rock Band as often as you do 
 in Guitar Hero 3. I'm pretty sure that if you are only reading my review NOW that you know a lot 
 about the game and its features, so i won't waste time telling you about them, though i would like 
 to address that the guitar will easily break no matter how careful you are with it. You will soon 
 hear a thing raddling around inside of the guitar, though that is not much of a big deal. The only 
 bad thing that has happened to mine is that one time i was playing Rock Band solo guitar tour and 
 it was a fairly slow song, medium difficulty, and all of the sudden i put my palm on the wammy 
 bar (sorry if i miss spell it.) and i hear and fell i quick SNAP! Now my wammy bar is incapable 
 of making itself bouce back to its standard position, it is simply loose, the spring inside of 
 the guitar had come loose. I can fix this problem, but i won't because i am afraid of breaking 
 something else. One very dissapointing asspect of Rock Band during this time period, however, is 
 that since it was such a success and was so unique it is now being copied by it's guitar hero competitors. 
 The new makers of guitar hero are now ripping all of the people that bought rock band for it having 
 all of its extra features (mic, drums, etc.) because they are now doing the exact same thing, and 
 i for one am one of those people that will probably unfortunately not be able to get this new guitar 
 hero thing because my parents will just say "Why do you need that if you have rock band?" I will 
 get it if they allow use of the rock band peripherals (instruments) , but i doubt that they will. 
 How they can do this do not ask me. It is obviously copy right because it is essentially Rock Band 
 with a different name and it is only coming out a year after. I mean, it is named guitar hero for 
 god sakes, it should not include the other instruments. Guitar Hero World Tour, i would think that 
 meant you travel around the world as a guitarist and play for people. I'm sorry my review of Rock 
 Band is turing out to be more of a rant than a review, but i'm just trying to get my mind out there 
 whithout it being passed by. In conclusion, i would definatley recommend Rock Band as a purchase. 
 If you have any questions either message my gamespot profile or my xbox live profile which is FooZombie, 
 thanks for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master1121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I am in LOVE with this game. The 4 player mode is just a great idea of thought for a video game. 
 2 Guitar players a mic and a drumer what more can you ask for! 
  
  
  The Online players on Rockband are more nicer and calm people just looking to have a fun too playing 
 4 player mode. The Engery bar is a nice idea which makes Expert level MUCH easy to beat than GH3. 
 The Songs are just picked out great for this band, Old School rock, Metal, Punk, Emo, Country rock. 
 Just cant get enough of this game. World tour is addicting and one bad thing about that is you 
 cant play world tour online and thats really too bad because GH jumped at the chance to make that 
 happen and steal from Rockband there drum and mic idea which they had almost 10 years to think 
 about before Rockband ever came out.
  
  
  
  The insurments are a pain though the wammy bar on the guitar easly breaks on the smallest rough 
 handling you do on it on wammy notes. The mic is a bit hard to work with but you get the time and 
 know your songs its easy to work with. It does not read well on low and high pitches which is why 
 i perfer practicing before you enter world tour and try to sing so you know what your doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trigger2099
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  im not saying rock band is a bad game but am i the only person who feels some what ripped off when 
 i play it on my own? i spend all this money on a game and when its done the instruments just lay 
 there collecting dust while i try and find something else to spend to much money on.
  
  The good: its 5 steps infront of guitar hero, more tracks, better multiplayer, smoother graphics, 
 hard difficulty won't expect you to grow 2 more hands and the ability to create your own rocker.
 
  
  The bad: No online band mode, most of the track list is songs that were never really big, instruments 
 tend not to work every now and then so your forced to get agressive and the score boards don't 
 work properly.
  
  I know that everyone seems to complain about the price but i honestly don't mind, if your a multiplayer 
 sort of gamer (i mean you actually have real friends not the ones online) then this game will give 
 you hours upon hours of fun unfortunatly once its done then theres not much more to do with it 
 except maybe place the instruments around your in hopes that a girl will mistake them for real 
 instruments and think your cool.
  
  all in all i still say buy i could point out annoying little faults all day but i still think the 
 price is worth being able shout abuse at your friend because he can't do band tour on expert but 
 still... am i the only one thats waiting for something new i know its better but after guitar hero 
 4 times i'm starting to get a bit sick of these games, even with new instruments (which i cant 
 really play well because at this point i'm so used to the guitar) im still waiting for a game to 
 come out of the works that makes everyone sayWow and we thought turning water into wine was 
 a miracle" a gamer can dream 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salans07
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Rock band is exactly what they say it is, a great muliplayer game however its also pretty fun on 
 your own. Graphics wise its great, nice  and instruments make it 
 feel like you are actually there. The sound is well its spectacular, the instruments sound great 
 and authentic and the sound varies from one guitar to the next from what Ive noticed which is a 
 nice little touch, the ability to change the sound on the guitar is wonderful as well I just wish 
 it had carried over to the bass, cause I wanna make my bass echo damn it.
  
  Song wise the defult songs cover a vast array of rock and many decades and do a great job at it, 
 DLC adds a whole new world to the game and its not extremely expensive which is great. Now if only 
 they get some  and Motorhead on there.
  
  The gameplay is deadon for the most part, when you strum or hit the drum its pretty much rich on 
 the money if you do it within the 1/4 of a second you seem to get. Ive not had any issues with 
 it being off after calibrating the tv, everything has been smooth and easy. The only argument I 
 have is on the vocals for me it does not always seem to recognize the pitch change very quickly.
 
  
  This game really shines when you have friends to play with, nothing like jammin out to David Bowie 
 with your friends. They have also accomplished the real feel of a band when you have to make choices 
 on what songs to play for your sets. There have been more than a few arguments btwn me and my bandmates 
 (one ending with drum sticks being thrown) .
  
  The one thing Im not a fan of is the lack of band world tour on solo, its not always easy to get 
 the band together to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is such a ambitious and fantastic game the only way I can think to review it is by analyzing 
 each piece separately. 
  
  Guitar/Bass:
  Getting used to the new guitar will take some time, but other than the hardware failures it is 
 extremely well constructed. Since EA has set up a great replacement plan the hardware failure really 
 isn't that big of a deal. The guitar parts in the game are the right difficulty and don't have 
 you screaming at your XBOX. (like GH3) However, people jumping from GH3 to Rock Band will have 
 a pretty easy romp through Medium and Hard. Expert kicks up the difficulty and makes it worth the 
 peanuts. The guitar aspects parts of Rock Band could have been released all by it self as a Guitar 
 Hero game and probably sold exquisitely. Also, if you don't like the RB guitar, since you are playing 
 on XBOX 360 the GH 2 and 3 guitars will work just as well.
  
  Vocals: 
  Vocals are the perfect doorway for new players. They are pretty easy and really make you feel like 
 to are the cherry on top of all the action going on in the room. Before long you will want to pick 
 up a guitar and see what that's all about. Now once you move to Expert the Vocals becomes almost 
 impossible to handle unless you plan on singing like a robot. The Vocal part of the game could 
 have been a great Karaoke Revolution release.
  
  Drums:
  The drums are the real show stopper here. They will get you sweating and energized and with them 
 being the most realistic instrument in the game you will definitely want to pick up a set of drums 
 to see how well you sound without little green and blue bars telling you to beat. Since everyone 
 will be coming in blind on this one, you will probably find the drums to be a bit awkward and hard 
 at first and it will take you more time to get used to them, butt he payoff is soooo worth it. 
 Any good Rock Band needs a good drummer, the same goes for Rock Band the game. 
  
  Multiplayer: 
  Combine all of the above elements and you have the makings of one of the best 
 (maybe the best) multiplayer games of all time. I have had many days where 4-6 hours were melted 
 away rocking to the tracks on Rock Band. I can't comment on the online play, but if you have two 
 or more friends you don't need online play with Rock Band.
  
  Setlist:
  The setlist is excellent and second to only GH3 (that is obviously a matter of opinion) It has 
 one too many Strokes songs on it, but the addition of Faith no More, Coheed and Cambria, Flyleaf, 
 and The Who are very welcomed. The setlist can only get better due to the growing amount of downloadable 
 content. If you don't like the current setlist... then make your own. 
  
  Overall: 
  Both Rock Fans and Gamers alike will love Rock Band and the replay value is through the roof. Rock 
 Band has actually been dominating all of my video game playing time lately and I haven't been able 
 to knock out many other video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  I never thought that I would highly anticpate tuesday mornings for anything else other than new 
 DVD release dates. Yes, new games come out on tuesdays or thursdays, but its few and far between 
 that i can barely wait to go to the store and pick up a new game. Then came rock band....
  
  The game is good, the difficulty is good, the hardware is... OK, but if you are really counting 
 on those aspects of the game to make you happy, you are going to be sadly dissapointed. Let's just 
 say that i hope you have friends... and xbox live.
  
  Rock band is really about the group experience. When i can hang out with a group of friends and 
 everybody is playing is dying to go play rock band... that really says something. It is really an 
 amazing group experience that lets you through all caution to the wind and enjoy. 
  
  The initial track list for rock band is really weak (matter of fact it is still hard to beat guitar 
 hero 2's track list in my opinion) , but the downloadable content is what knocks this game out of 
 the park. Updated every tuesday with mainstream and hardcore songs, even my wife asks what new 
 songs came out this week. Let's face it, who would have thought you could go from Metallica, to 
 the Police, to Blondie, and to Jimmy Buffett. There really is something for everybody (heck, even 
 my parents dug it) .
  
  The Good - Downloadable content really keeps the game fresh, game mode with 4 people is a lot of 
 fun, there really is something for everybody.
  
  The Bad - while not terrible, i really dont like the rock band guitar... i prefer to play with the 
 GH 3 wireless guitar. I have had to replace my drum pads... but the customer support team is really 
 good.
  
  The Ugly - the graphics don't stand out like guitar hero...
  
  PS - I'm sure you are saying that you would never want to play lead vocal. But when everybody is 
 playing... nobody is focusing on you, it really takes the pressure off of the main singer and allows 
 you to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark-joker93
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Rock band now here's game that its worth the money and very entertaining,
  guitar hero was missing something, drums microphones, now of course guitar hero would want to make 
 the drums and microphone, but the name is Guitar hero. ok now this is a family party game great for 
 you're friends and family, where you can play with 4 persons playing drums, guitar, bass, and microphone. The 
 game features a lot of songs from the 60's to now i think,
  it has a great multiplayer! and xbox live where you can rock! the world playing with people from 
 other places, costumize you're rocker or drummer or singer in the tour mode playing in gigs which 
 earn you some money, thats great because you can change you're clothes, instruments to fancy ones, and 
 your makeup, haircuts and even tattoo's!,
  
  By playing the Tour Mode you can win more songs which you can use with you're friends or family 
 by playing multiplayer or just yourself in freemode, you can also practice you're songs in practice 
 mode, and learn secrets to a better rockin chance in the tutorials.
  
  this game is Great , although the game is quite exepensive i think it's worth it! 
  This was 
 Dark-Joker93 AKA MAX. Hope you enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassin-Ninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  At long last competition for Guitar Hero has arrived.
  And what a surprise: It's better!
  
  
  The main reason for this is it seems to understand music better than GH, the main fact 
 being the fact Solo's are isolated from the rest of the song, and a good solo = more points.
  The other is it just feels much better to play; this is to say that it is more realistic and feels 
 more like playing a gig than a game.
  Also the game play is an improvement.
  The use of squares instead of circles and the ability to customize your player, the latter being 
 an element totally overseen by GH.
  
  But GH is more fun as it's made more for fun value; where as Rock Band is based upon a more serious 
 structure.
  
  The only main problem is the games length, it is over to soon and most of the songs and or bands 
 are in GH3 (Killers, The Stones and black Sabbath to name but a few.) and to be honest most of 
 the songs are not great, Gimme Shelter, Paranoid (In GH3) & Dani California being the highlights, 
 but most of the songs in GH aren't great.
  
  Also there's too much Content Download for it.
  I paid 39.99 for the game so I want the complete 
 game, not to use up all my points on songs!
  
  All in all it's a good game and Guitar Hero would need to real special to bring back its fans, 
 and I don't know if GH: Aerosmith will cut it (Even though I will get it coz I'm a big Aerosmith 
 fan!)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  You see, we are all gamers. We are people who can stand to wait an extra six months to ensure that 
 the game is up to the standards required to go out in the market. We then play the game, and like 
 all other things is this day and age, once finished we put it on our gamers shelf to gather dust 
 for the next 2 years until you realise its worth nothing and try and sell it on eBay. However, 
 Rock Band is slightly different. It has already come out over six months ago in a place called 
 America. It took long enough for it ship here and when it came, it was exactly the same, except 
 for nine extra tracks and a few little updates to graphics etc. So what was all the fuss about?
 
  Well dear readers, it is in fact about the price tag attached at a slightly hefty 180. Lots of 
 retailers did the packs towards the 150 mark, yet no less than 140 (well done Play!) . However, 
 when GHIV comes out in the latter end of the year, it will be priced at 220, for what, two extra 
 symbol's added to the drum! In some ways, its price tag is worth it in the long run. 
  The game, however, has a much longer life span than any GH game. Dominate the guitar career first, 
 since its pretty easy. Then try some singing, and finally your drums. The drums are the hardest 
 and require a new learning curve, so this one of the best ways to be prepared. Once you have completed 
 the full Solo career, get a band together and rock out online to get to the top of those leader 
 boards. While everybody states that you must play Rock Band 'as a band', the single player really 
 does show off. You may not be the centre of attention anymore, but you get so much reward for doing 
 well in single player.
  Band mode offers little more than single player, than just being social with some buddies over 
 the internet. However, like the flop of GHiII online co-op, your band could split up before its 
 begun. If ones amazing, one is rubbish, and one is alright, its just going to fall apart. The expert 
 is going to kick you out the lobby and report you. The only proper alterative is to play with other 
 newbie's. 
  So there you have it. Rock Band reviewed in a nutshell. Its worth the wait (ish) and worth the 
 price tag (double ish)  however it provide lots of fun until the next game you play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cto09
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Guitar:
  The new visuals are great and easier for the eye than Guitar Hero. However, hammer-ons are a little 
 hard to see. The difficulty is easier, but hammer ons are MUCH harder to hit. This makes some solos 
 too hard and the rest of the song too easy. Overall, it's still fun
  Drums:
  Amazing! Very fun. Foot pedal becomes tiring, but everything else is perfect
  Vocals:
  I can't 
 sing, but I would still like to sing in the game. Even on easy, it is hard to match the pitch correctly. 
 Easier needs to be much easier for people who lack singing ability. 
  Song List:
  Great song list, and it is very easy to download songs. With a constant supply of new songs, this 
 game never gets boring. 
  Multi-player:
  A great party game. The storyline is fun to follow. The only problem is that bands can not be formed 
 online. This is the biggest negative about the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunkerboy619
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  got guitar hero III or II, course you have. imagine that with drums and then add singstar, and 
 another thing, you can use singstar mic and ghIII les paul. The Fender strat on rock band is so 
 hard to use because the buttons arent seperated and raised like the gibson les paul of ghIII. The 
 mic has the rock band logo on it and you also use it as a tamborine by tappin it, a good feat, 
 then youve got the drums, my fav. and youve got an orange step ped. if youve got a ntsc compatible 
 360 then buy the american version cos that will save you about 70.
  
  its also got a great track list but ill let you find that out 4 urself.
  
  Games master thing:
 
  better than: Guitar hero III 8.7
  worse then: ummm?
  wait for: GH IV or rock band 2
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 4
Date: May 29, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  i know this review might get flamed to the hilt but who really cares honestly?
  anyway, review time.
  
  for me, this initially seemed like a cash in on the guitar hero series 
 and from what i saw it was.
  
  Instruments
  the first thing you note is that it only comes with 1 guitar which means that they assume that 
 someone else has bought their own guitar with them. first bad point. second bad point about the 
 guitar is that its really uncomfortable to hold. the strum bar is hit and miss most of the time 
 and the unexplained lumps in the yellow and orange buttons are extremely uncomfortable when pressed 
 (it would have been more comfortable if they had been replaced with nails) .
  the microphone is rubbish, simple as. most of the time it doesn't pick up what you say. i wasn't 
 quiet in anyway when i played this and i was better off when i just started to hum the tone. 
 
  the drums are the only decent part you get with it, which makes the 120 price seem just OTT.
 
  
  Gameplay
  oh dear oh dear. it seems when they were given the piece of paper saying "make GH3 rip off" they 
 seem to have taken it to extreme levels.
  the guitar and bass are fine, not really any way you can do it different and the singstar top is 
 also fine but why on earth is the drum part a fret bar? didn't they have even a shred of imagination? 
 
  it is also alot easier playing guitar/bass on this than GH3, but only when i had given up using 
 the RB guitar and started using the GH3 guitar.
  
  Songs
  this is where (for me) it totally disintegrated. when the title is something like "ROCK band" you'd 
 expect 90% of the songs to be rock. wrong. this game had about 8-9 recognizable songs on it with 
 the rest being completely unknown and of pop genre. and there are very little on songs on the disc 
 anyway. it seems like they just wanted cash and made every semi-decent song a DLC.
  
  overall, when you boil this game down, the drums learning curve is through the roof (spent at least 
 3 hours playing the drums with no improvement) and the singing part is broken (takes low notes 
 as medium notes) so basically what you're left with is GH3 with very limited songs to play.
  my advice is just buy GH3. its cheaper and has a larger and better array of songs to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3AD-SH0T
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is the game that blows Guitar Hero 1-3 out of the water. Not only is the Guitar awsome, 
 but it has drums and singing as well. The guitar is still awsome, the drums are sweet, and the 
 sining is off the charts. When they all come together you and your friends can totally ROCK. And 
 the solo gig is pretty sweet too. You can do all kinds of stuff, even customize your own characters, 
 with different hair styles, tatoos, instruments, and different clothes. There is a veriety of songs 
 for all instruments, and there is plenty of downloadable songs. What my friends and i do is we 
 each get good with our own instrument and the we form our own awsome band. But try each instument 
 before picking one. That way you dont end up with an instrument you might not like as much as a 
 different one, and if you ever get bord of one instrument you can always move on to another one. 
 So get good practice and ROCK OUT LOWD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_a_frewb
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 23, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  First off, I enjoyed rock band to the fullest possible. The graphics were great, the singer mouths 
 the words, and all of the instruments deliver a huge amoun of enjoyment. But I simply can't recommend 
 it. Why? It's too expensive. I usually don't like paying alot for cheap hardware. I owned the Xbox 
 360 version. All of the instruments for which are wired. The wires are just short of being comfortably 
 long. An annoying little problem is playing the drums of hardwood or tile floors. They slide all 
 over the place unless you do what I did and tossed a rug or some throw pillows underneath. Other 
 than that, the drums worked fine except for a HUGE calibration problem on my TV. They were about 
 a second and a half ahead of the beat half the time and a second late the other half. But that 
 was fixable. The microphone worked perfectly most of the time, accept the wire was a bit short, 
 as aforementioned. The guitar was really the weak link out of all of them, which was especially 
 frustrating. The guitar is really kind of the highlight of Rock Band (for me anyways) and it not 
 working well was a big problem. After a couple months, the thing stopped working altogether, so 
 it's better just to get the Guitar hero controller and work with that. Oh, and the guitar's tilt 
 sensor was broken when we got it, so learning to use overdrive just with the backbutton was annoying, 
 because I kept hitting the start button, ergo pausing the game for the entire band. That usually 
 ended up p*ssing everyone off. 
  
  Overall: A kind of mild non-recommendation for me. The tracklist is great. The game looks good 
 and plays well, but I'd rather not have spent so much money on crappy hardware. I do, however, 
 look forward to Rock Band 2, and I'm hoping the gear works a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aesthetic816
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a really great game, but when i was playing the solo tour.. i was so bored with the 
 songs. Out of the 50 or so songs you get to play in solo tour, about 40 of them i did not like. 
 The DLC is great though, thats what is keeping the game alive, but even the DLC songs arent to 
 great, maybe im just being picky but they should put some more "modern" songs, im getting bored 
 of all these old classic songs. Besides that, rock band is a great game and they made a breakthrough 
 for music rythym games. This game has a great replay value and is definatly worth buying.. i only 
 have the drumset and the guitar from guitar hero 3, just playing the drums is really fun and it's 
 a great start to getting into drums.. i recommend this game to everyone who likes music and who 
 wants to be inspired to learn how to play a real instrument. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katz_6988
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2008 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Fantasic party game! It combines many gameplay elements of other music based games into one. The 
 170 dollar price tag does seem kind of steep, but considering the replay value, and all the periphials 
 you receive with the game, that cost is quickly made up. The game features an outstanding music 
 collection, where 52 of 58 tracks are master recordings (NOT cover tracks unlike similar games) . 
 Some of the featured tracks cover decades of music eras, such as the Rolling Stones, all the way 
 to Fall Out Boy. Rock, Grunge, heavy metal, it's all in there. 
  
  The main thing i enjoyed is the variety and ever changing music library. At least 3 to 10 songs 
 are released every Tuesday. Although prices can be as expensive as $1.99 per song, it is well worth 
 it. The only downsides i saw to the game was that most of the achievement points do lie with the 
 mulitplayer or online function. And even if you beat the game on a higher difficulty, you only 
 receive a fraction of achievement points. Other than that, this game is a superb addition to any 
 music lovers game library! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cc623
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Other than having a relatively short single player mode but, you didn't buy it to play by yourself 
 right; what more can you ask for? Not enough songs you say, then get on xbox 360 live and download 
 some and your problem is solved! As far as gameplay it really shines and allows you to get your 
 kicks with a guitar, drumpads, and a microphone (if you don't mind looking foolish in front of your 
 friends/family) . All in all this is a perfect game for the family and your friends to spend an evening 
 wailing away to some of your favorite songs and a few that you don't know so buy it and get on 
 with fun! The only drawbacks i have seen to date is the increasing difficulty of the drumpads and 
 that stems from hours playing guitar hero and the addition of the footpedal! The main problem with 
 the drumpads is not hardware related but, rather the inability of most people to keep a constant 
 beat! To be any good at this game you're gonna have to practice so don't think you're gonna be playing 
 like mettalica right from the start. The best place for most (not all) players is with the tutorial 
 sections (especially for the drumpads) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aceball69
Rating: 9
Date: May 17, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Ever wanted to be in a band? Well here is your remedy... Rock Band is the best music/party game 
 ever made. You can play guitar, bass, drums, or sing. A couple things I can say negatively about 
 Rock Band is that the song library could be improved. Now, I am not saying the songs are bad, but 
 I'm just saying that there could be much better songs than what they have. Most of the songs in 
 the library are older songs that are kinda out of date. The good side of that problem is the DLC 
 is still coming and its getting better songs such as Disturbed. Another bad aspect of Rock Band 
 is the instrments aren't the most reliable. For example, I am on my third drum kit, second pedal, 
 and third guitar and I have had it for about 6-7 months. The drum kits malfunction making the rolls 
 impossible. But overall, Rock Band is worth it. The four-player possibility makes this game fun 
 to play with friends or family anytime. I highly reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flameant
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  When Guitar Hero was created, it made way for some great games. Rock Band added even more fun to 
 the Gameplay, as you can now play Guitar, Bass, Drums, of Sing your way to stardom.
  
  Gameplay wise, it's like playing Guitar Hero but with three insturments now. The songs you get 
 to perform are both great and challenging at the same time, plus you can download even more songs 
 to increase you library and your song list. Plus, you can also practice on songs that you keep 
 failing at and get better at.
  
  Each insturment is different from each other, thus getting a great game. Someone can be bad at 
 Guitar but play Bass or Drums. Some people can be able to play Bass and Sing at the same time. 
 
  
  Rock Band is a great game to play with your friends or by yourself. Remember, it's also online 
 to you can rock with others around the country. Get your friends together and form a band that 
 everyone will like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero has always been the best rhythm game out there.. alone. Mutiplayer has never been the 
 games strong suit. Now think this. Guitar Hero + DK Jungle Beat + Karaoke Revolution= Rock Band. 
 
  
  Now may I start and say Singleplayer for Rock Band is about average. T
  he lack of songs (about 20 less then your average Guitar Hero game) and nothing really creative. 
 Now about the song thing, if you're like me and become a total addict, you can waste $40 on 25 
 songs. I currently have about 80 songs on the thing. Why do I spend all my money. Because Rock 
 Band is fantastic fun. Guitar Hero is great alone, but multiplayer is nothing more then luck for 
 certain gametypes and occasional fun for others. Co-op on Guitar Hero games is pretty mleh, but 
 Rock Band well it grips you.
  
  I can't say really why it's so fun. You get to hang out with your friends and you don't have to 
 be serious about it (especially with singing) . Just have a lot of fun. Also the multiplayer career 
 is well organized with different areas you play at featuring different songs and set list including 
 some where you can make your own. It's pretty gnarley.
  
  The create a character mode is also a breath of fresh air. On so many rhythm games you're left 
 with either total dorks or totally boring people. Now though you get a variety of different clothes 
 to customize your rocker.
  
  Now the lack of online career mode is one of VERY few complaints with the game. I can't say that 
 a future patch won't come but it's still pretty dissapointing. 
  
  I didn't have the hardware problems so I'm good. I didn't like the guitar, I felt uncomfortable 
 with the strummer and it felt to bulky, I fixed the problem with a good ol GH 3 controller but 
 not all people will hate the controller. It's pretty good for a first controller, if you're used 
 to the GH controllers, getting used to this is a pain.
  
  All in all this is in my opinion the best rhythm game ever. Multiplayer grips you in and basically 
 I fell in love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destroyer238
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  If you have an interest in music or bands, get this game. Unlike any other music game, you can 
 choose from a variety of instruments. You can play the drums, the guitar, or you can sing! Their 
 are about 57 songs that you can play, which is not that much for a game like this. But their are 
 songs that you can download from Xbox Live Marketplace or PS3 network. The track list is pretty 
 good too. For example, they have Nirvana, Smashing Pumpkins, and Iron Maiden. They have a pretty 
 decent multiplayer system too. The problem with online multiplayer is that you can not play co-op 
 online, you can only play it locally. The co-op is pretty much the best part of Rock Band. Also, 
 they have a campaign mode where you can make a band or just play it yourself. It has a lot of things 
 you can do in it like competitions, concerts, and battle of the bands. You can change your characters 
 clothing or appearance too. Overall, this game is amazing and it will make you play it again and 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Songs we wish were in Guitar Hero, All the instruments respond well, easy assembly, multiplayer 
 is a blast, realistic character interactions, frequent song updates
  
  The Bad: Graphics aren't very good, a lot of poor songs, very easy for GH vets, drums can be too 
 hard sometimes
  
  The answer is no. I would pay, at the most, $140, but I have my reasons. First off the songs aren't 
 nearly as good as any of the Guitar Hero games, but there are about a dozen that I've been waiting 
 to see on GH since the first game. These include Don't Fear the Reaper, Blitzkrieg Pop, Learn to 
 Fly, Dani California, Enter Sandman, Here it Goes Again, and a few others. The other songs just 
 aren't that good such as Maps, In Bloom, Main Offender, Go With the Flow and pretty much all the 
 rest. There are many number of downloadable tracks, but a lot of them aren't worth the 2 bucks 
 a pop. 30 Seconds to Mars, All American-Rejects? I mean c'mon there are better songs. You do have 
 bands like Metallica, Boston, and The Pretenders but it's the lesser known crappy songs that you 
 skip on your CD player. There are some good songs to download like All the Small Things, More Than 
 a Feeling, Still Alive, Call Me and a few others. The meat of this game though is the drums. Yes, 
 it's fun and easy too learn... I think. You have the four colored pads (same order as the controller 
 I didn't even have to memorize where the colors were) and the kick pedal is orange. It's just like 
 drums. You'll have to start out on Easy, but soon you'll make it too Hard, and if you're talented, 
 Expert. The guitar is better than the Guitar Hero controller but a long shot. The buttons are set 
 into the guitar and it feels real, it's bigger, and more sturdy. The strum button doesn't click 
 either! You also have an effect switch so when you go into Overdrive (think Star Power) you can 
 have effects like Wah Wah, Flanger, Reverb etc. A great new feature is the freestyle mode. Every 
 so often when you play drums (when your Overdrive is full) you can just play any notes you want. 
 Once you get used to the drums you can throw in some pretty cool licks. When you play the guitar 
 you get blue sections which are solos and you can use the lower set of buttons and press away without 
 strumming. I found this really hard actually since going from top to bottom takes too long and 
 I failed songs that way. When you play as the singer you can tap along to the beat during solos 
 and you can hear your own voice through the speakers... this is either good or bad depending on 
 you. The singing is just like Karaoke Revolution. Sing to the pitch so the needle hits the lines, 
 read the lyrics and you're good. This game is also a blast online especially when you hear people 
 sing. Sometimes I laughed so much I failed songs! Hey! Speaking of failing, when you're in multiplayer 
 you get three chances when you fail and once someone else does Overdrive it'll bring you back. 
 Along with all this you create your own character. The thing is pretty robust. You can add tattoos, 
 change hair, color it, you can pick from 4 different clothing styles, Punk, Rock, Gothic, and Metal. 
 The graphics are also alright, but nothing special. While not nearly as good as GH3 the game is 
 more realistic. You have crowds that sing along, the band characters have more animations and sometimes 
 the guitarist will lean in and sing with the singer, the drummer plays more than just two notes 
 (he actually plays all the notes like on a real guitar) . All of this just makes things great. One 
 final thing, Guitar Hero vets will blow through the guitar section on Expert without breaking a 
 sweat. It's honestly not hard at all. Wait until the price drops and Rock Band is a great purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaomon
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band has got to be the #1 best game to play with your friends, family, and just about anywhere. 
 Though there are many goods about this game there are bads. The drum set could have been made a 
 bit better, the harder you strike it the more chance you have of it breaking and the tops popping 
 off. Also the pedal cannot stand intense stomping to much or it will break! If you do buy this 
 game I suggest using a Guitar Hero guitar or a guitar you can pick up somewhere. The strum bar 
 on the Rock Band guitar is pretty nice at first, but after a few weeks it will wear out and make 
 it harder to strum. Also the prices are a bit high if your wanting additional songs. The price 
 of just 1 song equals up to about 2 dollars. f you got every song on X-Box live that could add 
 up to over 75$. But although there are many bads, I highly suggest buying this game. Use the tips 
 I provided and you'll be fine. Thanks for looking at my review.
  
  Gaomon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilson336
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  Wow. Hardly descriptive, but that's Rock Band in a nutshell. This is a game that needs to be purchased 
 as the entire bundle. It is essentially 4 games in one: a guitar/bass sim, a drum sim, a kareoke 
 machine, and a party game. You really should explore all facets of the game, because they are all 
 executed to near perfection.
  
  The game did experience some early issues with the guitar controllers and, to a lesser extent, 
 drum pads, but honestly, most of those could be easily fixed by a screwdriver and a little comon 
 sense, almost like working and maomtaining a real instrument.
  
  The game itself is highly addictive through it's combnation of rythym based timing, unlocking venues 
 and clothing, and designing personal tattoos or designs to put on guitars, microphones and t-shirts. 
 The downloadable support has been steady and varied, from early '70's Boston to Grateful Dead to 
 Nine Inch Nails. With the fun gameplay and tons of downloads in the foreseeable future, this game 
 has huge potential to be in my 360 tray for years to come.
  
  The greatest aspect for me is that each time you pick up a new instrument it's like a new game. 
 Not only that, but playing the drums actually burns up some calories. Supposedly the drums will 
 also help you get some basics down if you decide to try a handat a real drum kit. If you have an 
 easy time playing guitar, try playing and singing at the same time to up the difficuty.
  
  The graphics are great, especially when you take a second to realize the singer is moving his/her 
 lips in time with the song, and all the instruments are being played in time. The animations are 
 designed for each song, including all downloads. Someone spent a lot of time on that.
  
  A few things do keep this game from being perfect. First, your character creation options are quite 
 limited. I would have liked to see something like the Tiger Woods character creator instead of 
 only 3 or 4 options for body style and face. Second, there is no solo option for bass. It would 
 be a nice option for beginners. Third, the jump from medium to hard is.... well, hard. It adds in 
 the fifth button on guitar and off-beat bass pedal hits, and ramps difficulty, resulting in a larger 
 gap in difficulty in both guitar and drums than when jumping between other difficulty levels. Lastly, 
 you must have two players, or play two instruments at once to do the band tour mode. This is probably 
 the biggest complaint, since sometimes you want a band and no one else is around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RushMetallica
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was very fun, with really cool parts, and a couple setbacks.
  
  Solo: 
  
  Mic: Very fun game mode, but I found you had to know most of the songs on hard or expert to get 
 them perfect. Still, it wouldn't be the same without it.
  
  Guitar: Awesoeme. I found it alot easier than Guitar hero 3, but still fantastic songs. I especially 
 liked the bottom 5 buttons where you don't have to strum in the solos, which make expert and hard 
 alot easier. The strum bar is also easier to use as it doesn't backlash, and is alot quieter.
 
  
  Drums: Pretty Cool. I'm a drummer in real life so I found it difficult to play on a plastic kit, 
 but I managed. The improv drum fill parts acting as star power and the cool beats on expert make 
 it a career you will play for hours. I did find however that they weren't responsive unless you 
 hit them in the very middle, and the kick pedal was to easy to hit, so you have to be genlte with 
 it.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Band quickplay: Players can play together locally or online with friends, which is fun the odd 
 time.
  
  Band World tour: Amazing. It's the reason you buy the game, its never ending, always fun, and a 
 great way to spend time with your friends. I would have liked it to be single player too though, 
 so that you could continue it on your own.
  
  Multiplayer modes: Pretty fun, but I find that the ranking system and achievements don't work that 
 great, but better than guitar hero 3.
  
  Well thats it, but I would strongly recommend it to you as long as you have some friends you can 
 play with, and you can't play it with a controller, so don't bother renting it to try it out unless 
 you have a guitar hero guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmokeBombMass
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of Harmonix from the start. In fact, I credit frequency and amplitude as some 
 of the main outlets that got me interested in the recording industry, where I am now. The fusion 
 of music and gaming is something that almost everyone can enjoy, and Rock Band takes that to the 
 next level.
  
  In Rock Band you can take part in one of four roles (or two if you good) and hit glowing notes 
 in rhythm as they come cascading down the screen. There's bass, drums, guitar, and vocals. Each 
 of them come with unique advantages and different styles of play.
  
  The hardware for the game is designed generally ok. The guitar (while not as comfortable or durable 
 as the Guitar Hero guitars) does work well, but might take some getting used to, since the fret 
 buttons feel more stiff and the strum bar, more loose. The Drum pads are well designed, and work 
 great... though the pads have a hard surface and are not mesh, making them kind of loud. The microphone 
 works well and is responsive. While everything is generally designed nicely, they do have quite 
 the notorious reliability issues. Broken whammy bars, unresponsive foot pedals, and nonworking 
 USB hubs, just to name a few, are nothing out of the ordinary. So you might be giving EA a call 
 to get something replaced.
  
  But lets get to the more important stuff : The Music. Rock Band comes with a pretty nice set of 
 songs out of the box. With around 70 tracks Ranging from Garbage to Metallica, you've got some 
 fun stuff to play. But the great thing that's going to keep you going to keep you interested for 
 a long time in Rock Band is the DLC. Every Tuesday you can choose to purchase new songs released 
 on the marketplace, which keep the game (At the risk of sounding like a gum salesman) fresh and 
 long lasting. Each song has 4 difficulties, and while nothing really comes close to the difficulty 
 of say Guitar Hero 3, it can still provide a good challenge to rookies and veterans alike. 
  
  The game is fun played alone, but a BLAST played with other people. Having two or more people 
 adds more strategy, and energy to the mix making it a perfect party game. For multiplayer co op, 
 you can play in either Quickplay mode, or Band World Tour which is, in my eyes, the highlight of 
 the game. But it's a shame that Band World Tour is NOT available to be played online, so you can 
 only play the mode on a single local console. It seems odd that a game mode that had some much 
 time and effort put into it, is that inaccessible.
  
  The game also sports the basic single player tour mode (though sadly there isn't one for bass) , 
 2 adversarial game modes, a practice mode, online leaderboards, and a surprisingly fun and detailed 
 character creation system.
  
  In summary, Rock Band is a flat out fantastic game. A good single player, and amazing multiplayer 
 experience make this a game to get if you have the cash. Even with some flaws like unreliable hardware, 
 and lack of a solo tour for bass, Rock Band manages at being at the top of market for music and 
 party games alike.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyro_tech9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is an excelent game, way better than guitar hero. guitar hero is ok but when you go up 
 a difficulty all they do is add notes and make it go faster. rockband adds notes and depending 
 on rythm, they add speed when needed, and you can make your own charecter (Xbox 360) . because guitar 
 hero limits you to 2 insterments it isnt as enjoyable. rock band allows you play drums and sing 
 along with your bass or guitarist. internet play is also amazing, you get a chance to show your 
 skill to other players. also rockband lets you recalibrate your guitar. is it lagging? all you 
 have to do is go to options run a few tests and BAM! problem solved. trust me when i say Rockband 
 will forever be better than guitar hero. FEAR ME ON ONLINE PLAY WILLI NILLI IS MAKING A COME-BACK!
 
  
  anyone who is going to get started on these music simulated games, rockband is the game to start. 
 easy to start off well and be on your way to being one of the best in rockband.
  
  Endless setlist is amazing! try it if you dare peoples! it lasts about 5 hours.!
  intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkinpark777
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best music games ever. rock band is like karaoke revolution, guitar hero 
 and somthing new together. if you have never played guitar hero or karaoke rev this is the game 
 for you. i have never played k rev so singing was new to me and i love it. with all the new downloadable 
 content make the fun last even longer. so far my fav dlc song is all i have downloaded lol. the drums 
 i have tried to do but they were too hard so i will try again somtime. this is the game that guitar 
 hero might lose to. this game can really bring friends together so i hope you have friends that 
 can come over to play alot. its worth the 160$. the weak point defently how hard the drums are but 
 you can pactice also some of dlc can be dissapointing if there are no songs you like. Xbox live 
 is very good but the weak point that people say and i dont agree with is that there is no online 
 tour it would not work because the people that are in your band might never be on or not playing. But 
 i look past the bad things in this game because there small problems. best music game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMeR4Life93
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Rock band is a new innovation of the music simulation genre. It includes a drum kit, guitar, and 
 mic. After all of the hype, this game is still the best game in its genre. Sadly, I have to say 
 that there a really weak point in this game and it has to do with the vocals. In the past I sang 
 in expert and I didn't even have to say the words, I only mumble in different pitches and got a 
 perfect score for it. Now that is the only weak thing in the game, the other weak point has to 
 do with the drum kit. On the bottom there is a rod that is supposed to hold the foot pedal in place 
 but It happens to do the opposite for me. If you buy this game make sure you solve this problem 
 before you ever try to play on medium or above. -  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkthemaniac
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Go to your nearest school or library. Then, I want you to look for one of those really thick books 
 that says "Math" or "English" or "Psychology" on it. That's called a textbook. Why the hell am 
 I talking about this? Because if there was a textbook entitled "Games that had a hell of a lot 
 of potential but managed to be meh 101," Rock Band would be on the front cover. It's so innovative. 
 Its multiplayer is so ingenious. How did they fail? Quite simply, they forgot to make the game 
 as great as the idea.
  
  Don't get me wrong, it's wonderful at first. When my two family members and I opened up the box 
 and strapped in for the party game of the year, it was a blast. Drumming was great, singing was 
 surprisingly fun if you could get past embarrassment, and guitar was Guitar Hero. Shredding the 
 solo on "In Bloom" with a near full band the first time on Expert guitar was one of the most memorable 
 moments I've ever had with a game.
  
  It steadily went downhill. As time went on and the shock factor of "Holy crap, I'm playing in a 
 band without using any real musical intuition," wore off, problems occurred. The first time I realized 
 in full the glaring flaw of the guitar portions of the game was when we played "Train Kept A Rollin'" 
 by Aerosmith. We played it somewhat early on, but the guitar outclasses any other instrument by 
 far. We failed, and I was drastically distraught and told my family members that the Hammer-ons 
 didn't work. They told me that it wasn't a big deal, as if saying that they didn't believe me. 
 I played it cool on the guitar from then on, since I realized that every once in a while they would 
 throw a song like that at you. Also, my strum bar was getting suspiciously loose.
  
  I figured since I had been playing guitar for so long and my brother's voice was getting raspy, 
 I would try out singing. I played a song that I'd never heard on medium and got in the 90% range. 
 The next song we did was a song I was familiar with, so I kicked it up to hard. I failed miserably.
 
  
  Next, I tried out the drums, which actually worked very well. However, after a few too many fills, 
 they broke.
  
  This was a loose recap of my experience beginning Rock Band. The guitar problems I was having were 
 due to a hammer-on system that was about as stiff as in the original Guitar Hero. The vocal problems 
 stemmed from the hastily written vocal parts that didn't match the actual singer. Kurt Kobain's 
 voice waivers. The game doesn't show that, so you end up having to bow to the game's unforgiving 
 vocal detection on hard, and especially on expert. The drums, well, they were made awfully. As 
 of now, I have broken a drum set, three sticks, and two bass pedals, but the second could be fixed. 
 People kept saying one thing to me. "Quit playing like Keith Moon and they wouldn't break!" It 
 was then when I realized something. Harmonix forgot the point of the game.
  
  Guitar Hero was always about feeling like a rock star in your living room. There was a practice 
 function, but you never really needed to use it. In Rock Band, things can be as difficult as learning 
 the real instruments, especially on guitar, therefore defeating the purpose. If it would be as 
 difficult as a real instrument, why not play a guitar? If you can't pretend to be Keith Moon of 
 Stewart Copeland or any other drummer legendary for hitting hard, then they have failed. Besides, 
 I didn't hit all that hard, only as hard as I needed to for them to respond.
  
  I still play it from time to time since I have put in the time and effort to get good, but it could 
 have been amazing. It could have taken the party crown from that bloated gargantuan known as Super 
 Smash Bros., but loss of sight from the real reason why Guitar Hero was fun has gilded the game 
 to be a frustrating mess. The beginning hours with the game as well as the end hours, once you've 
 gotten great, are thoroughly enjoying, but sometimes it feels like a chore to press on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flairlend_l337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games where it is always better to have multiple people play with you and 
 that is expressed with the name itself.. Rock Band. First off the positives. The songs in this game 
 were great, I surprisingly like the soundtrack of this game more then the one from GH3. The fact 
 that they took it from being just a guitar and expanded it to the drums, bass and a microphone 
 adds new possiblities and a much better replay value then just replaying on a harder difficulty. 
 The character custimization is a nice touch yet it is not nessasry in any way but it is refreshing 
 to see your creation take the stage and rock out to "Highway Star". Multiplayer is such a great 
 highlight and this is definetly the game you want to bust out when all your buddies come over and 
 they will love you for it. Lastly the downloadable tracks are somewhere along the lines of epic. 
 Since this game is continusly getting new songs it will keep the gameplay fresh and people are 
 always going to want to rock. Now to the negatives but no worries because there is not too many. 
 First off is the rare case of a broken drumset. In some cases the bass pedel is known to break 
 but I had no problem because I wasnt trying to be a drum legend by hammering on a piece of plastic. 
 Secondly the only set back is the fact they are not real instruments but that is to be expected 
 of a video game. So all in all it is a great game and deserves to be picked up and played over 
 and over again with friends or alone. So what are you doing? Go get this game now and begin rocking 
 out!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OutsideWing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I've had Rock Band for a few months now and I couldn't be more happy with a purchase. Not only 
 is it the most fun I've ever had playing video games with friends, but it keeps getting better 
 with the downloadable content. 
  
  The game experience is fantastic, with all four elements having great balance and depth. I'm glad 
 the folks at EA saw fit to let the Harmonix team go deep into their wish list and create the whole 
 experience. I also own Guitar Hero 2 and 3, but can't get enough of Rock Band. The GH series is 
 great in it's own right, but just can't match up to the four-piece mayhem that Rock Band enables. 
 
  
  Rock Band has become a haven for my friends on any night they can come over and enjoy. I have to 
 turn them away so that I can sleep. The absolute coolest part of the whole deal, is that ALL of 
 my friends want to play. That includes the guys who don't traditionally play video games and, more 
 importantly, the ladies. Yes, the ladies love this thing and want to dig into some of the great 
 tracks that feature singers they would love to sound like. Most don't sound all that great, but 
 you can tell them that, because I like being around. They're soft and talk real nice.
  
  In short, take Karaoke and put cram some Red Bull up it's arse. I refuse to go to a bar and sing 
 some crappy song in front of strangers, but, if you put me in my living room with my friends and 
 a bunch of beer.......
  
  Just be prepared for the escalation of the evening. No one wants to sing for the first 3 - 5 beers, 
 then the Rock Star in everyone starts to come out. There really is nothing like my friend, who 
 is 6' 5" and 330 lbs, belting out Run To The Hills at 3 am. 
  
  Now that's the way to end a night........ or begin one. Rock Stars never need sleep.
  
  I've 
 only given the game a 9.5 because there are a few improvements I would make. The first thing is 
 the Avatar mobility and band making set up. As it is, you can't change instruments once a band 
 is formed, you just have to stick with it. I understand in one sense, because of the legistics 
 with the really hardcore players, but an alternative mode would be nice. Second, if I have 7 friends 
 all wanting to play, it would be nice have a fluidity to the avatars, so that people could switch 
 instruments in between play. If you are in local quickplay, I don't see why this would be a problem. 
 
  
  I'm sure there are more things I could gripe about, but I can't think of them, because my brain 
 is crammed full of Rock Band goodness. 
  
  All in all, it's the best party game ever (sorry Bomberman) and it's the most complete rhythm gaming 
 experience to date, much less one of the best gaming experiences. 
  
  Thank you Harmonix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeCJ2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Step aside Guitar Hero, a new king is born. Rock Band is simply amazing and versatile and when 
 played with 3 other friends, the joy is endless. My roommate purchased the deluxe version and we've 
 been playing ever since the beginning in November last year. The songs do get stale every once 
 and awhile but if you look at the utter CRAPTON of downloadable content, Harmonix has set the standard 
 for downloadable content. There's something out there for everyone, and with packs around $5-6, 
 you pay for this game with sheer replayability. We have logged at least a hundred hours or more 
 and completed the 58 song-in-a-row Endless Setlist twice. It still keeps up coming back.
  
  The only downside is, in turn, the price. $180 to shell out is a lot, specially for us broke college 
 students. But if you got some extra cash and some friends, it's worth it without a doubt.
  
  Another downside is the equipment. Our personal experiences, our guitar broke numerous times, 
 the yellow/red drum pads stopped working, and also our foot pedal broke. We established an express 
 repair for the drum pads (They put a 150$ charge on your credit card and ship you the equipment 
 first, and then you put your stuff in the box and ship it to them. When they get it, they remove 
 the $150 charge) . And a regular replacement for the guitar. The pad replacement went smoothly and 
 the new pads are still rocking, even with me playing on expert most of the time. However we did 
 not get a guitar and they ended up 'cancelling' it. We also fixed the foot pedal with some athletic 
 tape and tongue depressors (that crap works like gangbusters) . Luckily we have 3 GH2 controllers 
 and those work just fine, although you can't change the sound effect stuff on the guitar.
  
  The graphics are amazing, HIGHLY customizable characters with tons of stuff to buy including 
 clothes and instruments, and custom-designable tattoos and designs able to be put on your skin, 
 shirts, instruments. This game was very well though out. Online is fun and easy to get into.
  
  I just can't wait for online world band tour. That's what will make this game a 10.0 for sure. 
 But enough rambling, go rock out with your cocks out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarilynMan2
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  On this review of rockband, i have to say that it is one of the greatest all around music games 
 ever made. Rockband can be played on drums, vocals, bass and guitar i mean come on it is every rockers 
 dream to be in a band but this is your chance to seem like your in band.
  I have been playing rockband for sometime now and it is a very highly addictive game, some of the 
 key features of this game include customizable characters, online play, and band world tour. This 
 is where this game meets its downfall, the one main reason for this games downfall is that you 
 cannot have band world tour online with your friends and have it keep track of everything that 
 you and your friends do of course you can do that locally but seriously if you have no one around 
 you to play with you then what is the point, that is why they need it for online as well to, that 
 cancels out a lot of the achievements as well that you can earn in the game.
  In band world tour mode you can up to with 4 people which is pretty fun if you have the people 
 to do it, your progress your way through cities playing gigs and earning fans and money, this is 
 one of the great modes that rockband has to offer. Rockband also has a online versus mode, it can 
 be fun if you get to play the songs you want the only way that you get to pick your songs is when 
 you play against someone in an unranked match but when you go into a ranked match the game picks 
 it automatically.
  This game offers a very good song list, i love a lot of the songs that are in the game, and the 
 fact that there is down loadable content every week makes it even better, so overall i would have 
 to give this game a rating of 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 9.5/10
  +Songs are remastered beautifully.
  +Plenty of great crowd effects such as cheering, booing, 
 and even singing along.
  
  Music: 10/10
  +58 songs spanning 40 years and a dozen genres.
  +The vast majority of the songs are amazing.
 
  -Fall Out Boy.
  
  Visual: 8.5/10
  +Great overall. There's a nice glow effect on everything too.
  -Fans in the crowd are the same 
 5 or 6 character models repeated over and over.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  +Possibly the best in the genre ever.
  +TONS of songs, both on the disc and available for download.
 
  +Never gets old, even if you play solo.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  +Hugely addictive.
  +Works perfectly online.
  -No online Band World Tour.
  
  Story: N/A
  
  OVERALL: 10/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MMAKing623
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This could've been the greatest game ever. There's great concept, great graphics, great songs, 
 great career mode, and great character creation. It's a really, really fun game. It's addicting 
 and fun for people of all ages. This game has simplistic gameplay which makes it great. My problem 
 with this game is, there's not enough songs... sure you can buy some but who wants to spend all 
 that money? There's tons of songs available for download but unlike guitar hero, they don't have 
 free songs available. Other than that tiny little flaw it's a great game. It's worth the money 
 because it's like 5 games in one. It's a guitar/bass game (Guitar Hero) , a singing game (Singstar) , 
 a drumming game (first kind available for video game consoles) , and a band game (first of its kind) . 
 So the next time somebody says it's a lot of money think about all that your'e getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:13 am PT
Review:  I have never played a game like rock band before, and most likely will never play one similair 
 until rock band 2! This game offers so much, that the extra $100 on the price tag makes it well 
 worth the buy! In addition to your traditional guitar fun (a la guitar hero) , you also get your 
 chance at tackling drums and vocals (i don't mean to brag - but I rock hard!) ! The game's design 
 is beautiful, although if you are used to playing guitar hero, it might take a few minutes to get 
 used to rock band timing, as there is less room for error. The game's difficulty ranges from mind 
 numbing easiness to extreme difficultly, but every challange offers spectacular rewards. The best 
 way to enjoy this game - get 3 friends and rock out world tour! This arena is where the game SHINES! 
 Possible improvements include the expansion of single player mode, further expansion of world tour, 
 and advanced character customizations. That being said - BUY ROCK BAND! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is an indisputably great game but there's been so much praise, I thought it might be 
 worth mentioning some areas of concern and need for improvement.
  
  1. Too many of the songs are covers and not sung by the original bands! Sorry but this sucks in 
 every way. Some of the covers sound truly terrible too. Harmonix, If you cant get the original 
 band track, dont put that song in the game! A crappy cover of Black Sabbath is NOT acceptable.
 
  
  2. Guitar Hero and Rock Band seem to be fighting it out for songs that will be included in their 
 games and that clearly isnt great for gamers who want to play rock band and not guitar hero, or 
 vice versa. it is disappointing to see a classic band's tracks on the other game.
  
  3. I'd like to see some major "rock" bands from the 60's like the Beatles and Jimi Hendrix, but 
 that's a personal preference issue. 
  
  4. The drum kit is awesome but my friends and I MUCH prefer the guitars. I wish there was a version 
 of Rock Band that sold 2 guitars and no drums. It has to be said you can HEAR the drum kit going 
 clack clack clack when someone is playing it and it can wreck the over all experience. You can 
 blast the mucic to cover up the sound of the drum kit, but the neighbors wont love you doing that. 
 The drum kit is a great part of the game, but I wish it were a lot quieter.
  
  5. One concern is Rock Band 2. I suspect we are all gonna get burned here. Will our song download 
 purchases for Rock Band 1 carry over to Rock Band 2? Very likely not. Hence, I foresee some really 
 annoyed gamers when Rock Band 2 comes out. Given the success of this game, dont be surprised if 
 Rock Band 2 comes out before XMAS 2008. When that happens, Harmonix will want you buying stuff 
 for their new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xt3kn1x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I've never been much of a "music game" fan. I never played DDR, Parapa the Rapper, or even Guitar 
 Hero 1 & 2. My girlfriend bought me GH3 for the Wii which I picked up and mastered fairly quickly 
 and thought it a decent game. I decided to check out Rockband since I was having a party that night, 
 and upon first impression all I could say is WOW. This game has it all.
  
  You really feel like you're in the band, or rather you ARE the band. Not just some guy with a fake 
 guitar playing along to colorful blips on the screen, there's something to hearing the beat of 
 the drum around you, the music coming from the television and your tone-deaf friend screaming into 
 the mic. You really get into it and feel like your rocking out.
  
  The gameplay is excellent, there's a myriad of timeless songs from the 70's, 80's, 90's, and more 
 of the recent music too. Graphics are fantastic, and the character customization blows Guitar Hero 
 out of the water. And also unlike Guitar Hero you have the option to change how your music sounds 
 in parts of the song. The Rockband Guitar controller allows you to change the sound of your guitar 
 while you're playing in "energy" mode, and you can throw in some killer drum fills provided you 
 have enough energy to do so. Additionally you get an echo to your voice when you're in "energy" 
 mode as the singer (that could be good or bad depending who's rocking the mic) . Overall I only 
 had one complaint. After playing Guitar Hero I was accustomed to the 'click' of the GH guitar controller 
 and felt like the strumming on the Rockband fender controller was a bit sloppy. You do get used 
 to it after a time but it does seem like the controller could have been slightly better. 
  
  That being the only negative thing I have to say about this game, I would suggest it to just 
 about anyone! My girlfriend HATES video games and hates when I play them, but she will actually 
 watch me play this and sometimes jump in on a song or two just for fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VentiMochaLatte
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  wow! i can't beieve that i gave a rating over 8. it takes a lot for a game to pass my standards 
 but rockband did it. this game can spit in the eye of every other rythem / music game. Rock band 
 is in it's prime right now and they should take advantage of that. put out more songs on Xbox live, 
 put it on the Wii, make a sequal. this is probably the only game i will shell out $175 for and 
 still feel happy (i'm regreting buying endless oceans) . it's addicting, it has awsome gameplay, 
 and the drums are a great way to make my sister tired so i can play halo. i think rock band will 
 be a game that in the future our kids will play it and still love it. i can only pray that harmonex 
 doesn't uh.. never mind i don't want to ruin the moment. now if you'll excuse me i need to get 
 back to playing...
  
  ventimochalatte
  
  ps make sure you buy this!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguino726
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  -Rock Band- 
  
  To start with you must know that this game has millions of gamers everywhere belting out the lyrics 
 to 'when you were young' when they think they're alone, doing a wicked dance with their fingers 
 on the neck of that guitar, and wailing on that sweet, sweet drum set until their drum sticks break, 
 and lovin' every minute of it. 
  
  THE BEGINNING
  This is a must-have for any gamer with half a brain, and a secret rockstar hidden within. Once 
 you get past the daunting price of the complete box set, and finally buy it you will never be the 
 same. The box screams of rock-star-dom and begs you to open it. When you get over your gawking 
 and open it you will probably have two thoughts.
  1. Oh my god, I can't put this together.
  2. This is freakin' awesome!
  You need not fear, as it is easily put together in less than twenty 
 minutes normally. The initial interface is clean and easy to navigate with any of the instruments. 
 It has several 'modes' to choose from including tug-o-war and score dual for online, and band world 
 tour (the name of which wreaks of rock) and of course solo tour. Once you have actual chosen a 
 song from the satisfying, but slightly lacking library, your ready to roll. you choose from four 
 difficulties, just like guitar hero. easy, medium, hard, and expert. Choose one and launch into 
 the song. The on screen stuff is simple and not distracting, similar to guitar hero. The background 
 scene of you and your band-mates rockin' is excellent and transports you out of your living room 
 and pajamas and onto a unique stage and into some real rocker's clothes. 
  All around Rock Band has no failures in these categories. 
  1. packaging- * * * * * 
  2. interface- 
 * * * * *
  3. On-screen stuff- * * * * * 
  
  THE GUITAR 
  
  The Rock Band guitar will have you dancing around the room adding sound effects and rocking until 
 you're on your knees. WARNING: please be mindful that the guitar in wired, as I once had an incident 
 where my 360 nearly fell to it's death while I was being my alter ego 'Chartruse' . Note that Chartruse 
 was able to save said 360. I often find that due to the wireless sensation these days we forget 
 when we actual do have wires. Other than that little down-side the guitar is awesome and will make 
 you feel like a rockstar the instant you pick it up. 
  With 'construction' out of the way, lets get to 'playability'. The Rock Band guitar is pretty much 
 the same as the Guitar Hero guitar with a few minor exceptions, which although a bit confusing 
 at first, they are there for a reason. you also go into overdrive (same as star-power) the same 
 way you do in Guitar Hero 
  When playing on the guitar you have a choice of either bass or guitar, I would like to be able 
 to say that it's a matter of taste which you prefer, but I don't want to lie to you. in reality 
 EVERYBODY likes guitar better, because although bass gives you a six times multiplier and 'bass 
 groove' it can't make up for those countless moments when you forget you're playing a game and 
 get caught up in an ausome guitar solo. The bass is also much easier so I would suggest that you 
 start bass on hard-expert if you have previous experience from Guitar Hero, and start guitar on 
 medium-hard with experience. 
  The Rock Band guitar solo and band world tour modes are great, offering a wide variety of songs 
 with varying difficulties and rock-star-ness. All in all I think the Rock Band Guitar is a well 
 balanced and downright unfairly fun. 
  
  construction- * * * * 1/2 (occasional my overdrive acts up, no biggie)
  playability- * * * * 
 * (what can I say, me and 'shaniqua' my guitar just rock) 
  rock-star factor- * * * * * (the feeling you get during a solo is awesome)
  
  THE DRUMS
  
 
  Well I have to admit to having a favorite. It's hard to describe playing the Rock Band drums to 
 someone who hasn't. Put simply it's just darn well satisfying smashing through all those guilty 
 little colorful notes that think they can trip you; only the most awesome drummer in the world, 
 up.
  The Drums have a reasonably solid construction. The frame is simple and easy to assemble, but can 
 take quite a bit. The clamps that hold it together can sometimes be a bit stubborn to open and 
 close, but I've never had one break. The pads are made of rubber and although quite abused, don't 
 show anything (in good lighting) . 
  Onto playability! The drums are just too much fun. It feels so good to smash those pads with your 
 sticks and you get a rewarding bounce back, not to mention each individual one actually has a different 
 sound in real life, which I think is a nice touch. The best part about the drums I would have to 
 say is the 'drum fills' which are the drummer's way of going into overdrive, by playing an awesome 
 freestyle sequence that releases you from the relentless colorful notes and your friends might 
 have to inform you that 'your rockstar is showing'.
  Rock Band's library is properly tailored to the drums when on solo tour, but it might be some people's 
 (not true rock stars like me) complaint that the drums have a very steady and often monotonous 
 beat that never changes during a song, unlike the freedom of the guitar, but I have to disagree 
 as I think this is not a problem as much as it is a little treat. Most people when coming to the 
 drums have trouble adjusting to the kick pedal. I have to admit that I am also a victim of the 
 kick pedal konundrum. It is surprisingly difficult to separate your thinking into when you must 
 step and when you must hit. Much like trying to rub your belly and tap your head ( I know you just 
 tried to) . This is easily overcome though with the usual satisfaction of using the drums.
  All in all the drums are a unique and fresh take on music games done superbly.
  
  construction- 
 * * * * * 
  playability- * * * * *
  rock-star factor- * * * * ( sadly it sometimes feels you just support) 
  
  HAIRBRUSH- i mean 
 MICROPHONE
  
  What can I say? The Rock Band microphone blends all the best elements of karaoke; embarrassment, 
 forgotten lyrics, harsh judgement, and terrible singing, beautifully with all the elements of a 
 great game (need I go into those?) . The microphone, although the most publicly least favored, is 
 privately everybody favorite. What's this? no one's around? feeling bold are we? oh, hello microphone.
 
  Hmm, not much I can say for construction, it's a mic, plain and simply, but as efficient a tool 
 as any for our musical delusion. It does have a 'tambourine' feature that requires you to beat 
 it against your palm, but it's more fun to just say random words, like a mini-rap contest with 
 yourself. 
  Playability is the best of any of the three. ANYONE can sing, not well mind you, but what does 
 that matter anyway? As far as whether or not you can rock out on the mic. is really up to you. 
 you can act completely uninterested and still do well, or you can really get wild and wake the 
 neighbors, your choice.
  The library of songs in diverse enough, but female songs are lacking a bit. Sorry all you girl 
 vocalists. 
  I would recommend that you start on the medium-hard level for songs you don't know too well (we 
 don't want you to actually find out you can't sing, do we?) also note that over-drive is achieved 
 by saying random stuff during designated sections. normally 'oh' or 'yeah!' will suffice. you can 
 also hold down the left trigger on the controller to let your band-mates hear you. I don't suggest 
 this online as it lags a bit producing your words two second after they are supposed to be sang, 
 in addition to your less than 'idol-like' voice this can make for disaster for the other instruments. 
 
  All in all the microphone is a fun addition and a must try for all rockers but might not give the 
 sort of satisfaction of the other instruments to some un-animated people.
  
  construction- * * * * *
  playability- * * * * *
  rock-star factor- * * * * 1/2 (you need to 
 put in some effort to be rockin') 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  All around this is one of the best multiplayer party games around. Rock band is a beautiful symphony 
 of the rock we saw in Guitar Hero and a fresh take on the music game business that Harmonix is 
 only the best at.
  
  interface- * * * * * (I LOVE the globe with ginormous cities to visit)
  learning curve- * * * 
 * (it can be difficult to move from your comfort zone)
  game play- * * * * * ( gives you an unbeatable invincible feeling)
  content- * * * * * ( The 
 songs and instruments are awesome)
  single player- * * * * * (lets you be a more rockin' you)
  multiplayer- * * * * * + (it gets 
 the coveted sixth star, immaculate)
  all around- * * * * * (a must-have, one of my favorites)
  
  *RECOMMENDED* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InuHanyou1701
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  Drums, Guitar, Vocals. What more can be said. I don't exactly remember how I first discovered this 
 game. More than likely here on Gamespot. The day I went to pick it up (I pre ordered) I was so 
 excited. Now let me just get some of the negative out of the way really quick so I can end on a 
 positive note. I think my greatest disappointment in this game, peripheral... (If I can spell that 
 word... -.-;;; ) wise was the guitar. I was expecting it to feel a lot more sturdy than it does. 
 And, little picky here, but the neck of the guitar is a much lighter yellowish color than I was 
 expecting. I have yet to come across a problem with the guitar, functionality wise though. The 
 drums are awesome but the drumsticks I got with them are just pieces of unfinished wood which was 
 disappointing. My biggest issue with the drum set is that it's LOUD. Vocals are vocals and the 
 mic is... just a mic. I've been told I'm a good singer but I can't sing any of the songs on Rock 
 Band to save my life. Mostly because I don't sing rock very well. Anyway! All of that out of the 
 way. My last disappointment was the lack of online for Band World Tour. I don't really have any 
 friends that live in my state so I'm either going to have to learn to play guitar and sing at the 
 same time or just give it up. 
  
  Positives! The gameplay is as fun and as addicting as the first Guitar Hero game and I have to 
 say I am a huge Harmonix fanboy. The visuals are stunning. I could have done without the music 
 video effects in the animations for the band itself and the stage but I digress. The character 
 customization is very intricate and very thorough but it is not the best I've seen in a game. The 
 characters, in terms of realism and their animations, look FANTASTIC. The singer does not look 
 like he's about to eat the mic (*Cough cough Guitar Hero 3 cough*) and the lip syncing is great. 
 The drummer does not look like he's a puppet and it really looks as though he's whacking the crap 
 out of those drums. The guitarist has just as much detail paid to him, right down to the string 
 vibrating after being strummed (But you only really notice this when the camera zooms in) . The 
 gameplay is so much fun. Whether you're a guitarist (Like me. In that I prefer guitar over the 
 other periphs. I can't play the real guitar sadly) , drummer, or singer you will like every instrument 
 in this game. There have been complaints that the game is easier compared to the previous Guitar 
 Hero games (And certainly to GH3) . I tend to agree with that as I have beaten the Hard difficulty 
 on the guitar. But that, by no means, lessens the gameplay value! 
  
  The guitar part of the game is played just like Guitar Hero. The obvious difference being that 
 instead of dots scrolling down the screen, it's rectangular bars. True to Harmonix form, the hammer-on 
 and pull-off notes are difficult to spot at times and you must actually press the corresponding 
 fret button as it reaches the bar at the bottom for it to register. Yay realism. Overdrive acts 
 just like Star Power did in the Guitar Hero games. The difference is that you can gain overdrive 
 even after it has been activated. Where in Guitar Hero, you had to plan where you used Star Power. 
 This gives you a little more freedom. The big difference in the guitar gameplay is the addition 
 of solo sections. These sections are denoted by the scrolling fret on the screen changing to a 
 blue color (Much like when star power was activated in Guitar Hero) . Whenever you are in a solo 
 section of a song, the game tallies up the percentage of the notes you hit correctly and, depending 
 on how well you performed, you are given a bonus amount of points at the end of the solo. The solo 
 section is also where you use the 5 way switch on the Rock Band Fender guitars. While it really 
 doesn't add points to your score, it's kind of fun to mess around with. I should also mention that 
 the solo section is also where you can use the second set of fret buttons on the guitar. During 
 the solo section you can use hammer technique, using the second set of fret buttons so that, a 
 skilled player can literally play the entire solo section without having to strum. While highly 
 unrealistic, this is an interesting challenge you can make of yourself. The other difference in 
 the guitar gameplay is the "Big Rock Endings". As with solos, only certain songs have a big rock 
 ending (Does anyone else get the urge to say big rock candy mountain when you say big rock ending 
 or is it just me? I know I'm weird...) Basically what you are doing during the big rock ending 
 is mashing down on the second set of fret buttons on the Fender guitar for all you're worth and 
 racking up a huge amount of bonus points to tack on at the end. Unfortunately you must play a few 
 final notes after this little section to actually get the bonus added to your score. If you miss 
 the notes, you don't get the points. The guitar itself is bigger than previous models which provides 
 for a new level of realism, and just feels better in your hands. That said, let's move onto the 
 drums.
  
  By now everyone should know what the drums look like. If you don't, I'm afraid I'm not that good 
 at describing them. The drum gameplay is, obviously, much different from the guitar. Duh. Now a 
 question that comes to mind for most people who want to play the drums on Rock Band is, "Is the 
 kick pedal used in the easy difficulty". One word answer. Yes. Unless you can actually play the 
 drums in real life, I suggest you go through and master the easy difficulty before moving onto 
 the harder ones. The kick pedal takes A LOT of getting used to (If you can't play the drums that 
 is or unless you a natural at playing them) and you'll want all the practice you can get. The drum 
 UI is basically the same as the guitar. You have rectangular notes scrolling down at you and you 
 have to smack the corresponding color coded pad on your drum set when it reaches a certain part. 
 The kick pedal notes are the only real difference. You'll see these as long orange lines that stretch 
 across the scrolling fret board. Another question I hear often is "How do you use Overdrive on 
 the drums". This is where it gets kind of lame but, as you can't tilt a drum set, it was as good 
 as they could do and I applaud Harmonix for it. To activate Overdrive, you must gather energy just 
 as you do with a guitar. Once you get enough to activate Overdrive you will notice small drum fills 
 pop up from time to time while you play. While you don't need to wail on your drums during these 
 fills, it's always fun to. To activate overdrive you play during the drum fill and then hit the 
 cymbals (The green pad) at the end. The drums also have a big rock ending that works exactly like 
 the guitar one so see above for that. On to the vocals!
  
  Vocals are simple and, as I read somewhere before, the UI is so similar to SingStar that one might 
 wonder if there is a little copyright infringement going on here. The words will scroll across 
 the screen, accompanied by the appropriate pitch on a staff. Not to worry, if you have a really 
 deep voice but the singer is high pitched, you can still sing the song in an octave you are comfortable 
 with. I haven't really played around with the vocal section too much because I know all of 3 songs 
 on the game's original set list. The only question that I can answer is "How do you activate Overdrive?". 
 As with the drums, once you gain enough overdrive energy to activate it, you must sing, speak, 
 whatever the heck you feel like doing, during a special filler part in the song that seems to pop 
 up randomly. Now we all know that most singers can get annoyed with the guitarists and their awesome 
 solos. We don't really have anything to do during them. WRONG! Harmonix has added a little something 
 for us. During a lot of the guitar solos and sections where there is no singing going on, you can 
 tap the mic against your hand and use it as percussion. You will see when this is able to be done 
 by black dots scrolling across the staff. 
  
  As far as multiplayer goes, I can't really comment on it because I haven't really played multiplayer 
 yet. Surprise surprise. My music is a personal thing to me and I am not the greatest Rock Band 
 player in the world so I don't really like playing with people I don't know just because I don't 
 want to hear "You still just play on hard? What a noob!".
  
  All in all. Rock Band is an amazing experience. Don't let the price of the bundle scare you away. 
 You won't regret buying this game. Hope this review helped you to understand it a little better. 
 I know I didn't touch on everything but oh well. Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camkillz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Everything. All aspects of this game are award winning and worthy of praise. From the guitar 
 lessons that teach you the ropes. To the high level of difficulty that you can aspire to. 
  The whammy bar! Do you know how many years I have looked at a guitar or heard the sweet wabble 
 of the whammy bar and wanted to be able to do that. Or be able to jam on the drums at lightning 
 fast speeds and have it actually sound good! Its all good. Every morsel of the game is great!
 
  
  
  Cons (term used loosely) : One con is the lack of ability to easily change instruments and keep your 
 profile (Xbox360) with the next instrument in local or online multiplayer. I know I am digging. 
 It is just one of the hang ups that I have come across. 
  The other small.... small chink in the otherwise impenetrable armor is the vocals. Very easy to 
 cheat. A. K. A: humming along and not actually singing the words. This is a small minor thing that 
 really should be on the player not the game. Just dont do it and the problem goes away. If multiplayer 
 battles online becomes available. It would be a bone of contention that someone won the match by 
 humming and hitting the right starting and stooping points in replacement of the words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is the newest game from Harmonix, who previously made the Guitar Hero games. This time, 
 though, you can also sing and play drums. 
  
  You play guitar and bass mostly the same as in Guitar Hero. You have a mini-guitar with five colored 
 buttons. One green, one red, one yellow, one blue, and one orange. On Easy, you only use the green, 
 red, and yellow buttons. On Medium, you use the green, red, yellow, and blue buttons. On Hard and 
 Expert, you use all of them. As the colored note scrolls down the screen, you press that color 
 and press the strum bar. Sometimes you will have to press more than one at the same time or you 
 will have to hold the button down. For the latter, you can use the Whammy-Bar to change how it 
 sounds. You use Overdrive, (This games version of Star Power,) by tilting the guitar. There are 
 a few differences though. You can get higher multipliers with Bass Groove while playing bass. Also, 
 the guitar has lower frets that you can use to play solos without strumming. Hammer-ons and pull-offs 
 show up as smaller notes now. As a side note, the guitars aren't that well made and sometimes don't 
 work like they should. Also the guitar parts seem much easier compared to Guitar Hero. 
  
  The drums have four pads and a kick pedal. The notes also come scrolling down at you like the guitar. 
 But instead of showing up as a square note, the kick pedal note shows up as an orange line across 
 the screen. You use everything on every difficulty. Drums are easily the hardest part of the game. 
 You activate Overdrive by playing the cymbol, (The green pad,) at the end of Drum Fills. These 
 show up at pre-determined parts of the song. Which means that you can't activate it whenever you 
 want, which is stupid in my opinion. 
  
  When you sing, the lyrics move across the screen, with a pitch meter above it. The closer you get 
 to the pitch, the more points you get. As the difficulty goes up, the more sensitive the microphone 
 gets. You activate Overdrive by singing whatever you want during glowing parts of the song. Like 
 the drums' drum fills, these only happen during pre-determined parts of the song so you can't activate 
 it whenever you want. I think this is stupid too. 
  
  Each instrument, (Except the bass,) has its own "Solo Tour" mode. The best mode, however, is the 
 multi-player "Band World Tour" mode. In this mode, you and whoever your playing with star off as 
 a small band, playing in small clubs and bars. You continue to play and get money, fans, and ways 
 of transportation and eventually become a world famous band playing in huge stadiums, theaters, 
 etc. This, however, can't be played online. There are also competitive multi-player modes, Score 
 Duel and Tug of War. As well as both Solo and Multi-player quick play. These multiplayer modes 
 can be played online. 
  
  As with any Music game, it would fail if it didn't have a good song list. And Rock Band has a great 
 one. Some of the songs include "Creep," "In Bloom," "Enter Sandman," "Foreplay/Longtime," "Learn 
 to Fly," and "Go With the Flow." There are also dozens of songs available for download on Xbox 
 Live, with more added every Tuesday. Some of these songs include "El Scorcho," "I Fought the Law," 
 "Gimme Three Steps," and "Still Alive," from Portal. 
  
  You can create your own characters. You can choose everything from their clothes, to their style, 
 to their eye color, etc. The game also has good graphics. 
  
  The value depends of Rock Band depends on how much you like rock music. If you love rock music 
 and are a gamer like me, then I recommend it. If you are a casual gamer or don't really like rock 
 music, then you might be better off with Guitar Hero. 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 10
  True Score:9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyBones3487
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a superb addition to the rhythm game types. It not only encompasses everything that 
 we've come to know and love from Guitar Hero, but throws in the new elements of a drumming section 
 and karaoke to the mix. Although, EA & Harmonix does have some work to do on their quality of product 
 they're putting on the market, overall the game is very addicting and gives even the novice person 
 the ability to grow in their rhythmic skills. As far as the quality of product goes, any gamer 
 that purchases this expensive bundle will inevitably run into issues with the guitar controller 
 malfunctioning and equipment, such as the bass pedal, breaking completely into different pieces. 
 EA has set a standard in customer service however, replacing any broken piece with a brand new 
 replacement free of charge. However, with a price tag that exceeds the $150 dollar mark, you would 
 expect the quality in which you buy initially to be much higher than what you get. All in all, 
 I would recommend this game to any buyer with the loot to fork out on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nesygxela
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game for rocker wannabe's and music lovers alike! The guitar play is very addictive 
 and fun, but less challenging than guitar hero games. The drums are revolutionary and probably 
 the best instrument if you want to have fun! The singing is a lot like Karaoke games, but has a 
 unique flavor. The song list is questionable, but the online songs make it just right. Band world 
 tour is amazingly addictive and character customization is just too much fun! Playing solo is great, 
 but playing with friends makes this the best party game ever! If you got a few buddies on a Friday 
 night with nothing to do, this is it! Playing with people is the purpose of this game and it makes 
 it that much more perfect! Online is great, except that you cannot world tour. Overall i like this 
 game more than any guitar hero game, but the $170 will hold back, but i tell you, it's sooo worth 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOWfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Rock Band in early February 2008, I never expected it to overtake the other games 
 in my collection. But when I popped the disc into my Xbox 360 a couple hours later, everything 
 changed. 
  
  
  Now two months later, it has surpassed every other game in my collection to become the one I play 
 the most, games such as Gears of War, Halo 3, Rainbow Six Vegas, and the Guitar Hero games. While 
 it bolsters a great single player campaign with many classic songs to choose from, songs that range 
 from classics by Blue Oyster Cult and the Rolling Stones, to newer songs by OK Go and Queens of 
 the Stone Age. The multiplayer is just as good, if not, better than the single player campaign, 
 as it offers hours and hours of enjoyment.
  
  Suffice to say, I was a bit apprehensive when I found out this would be $200 CDN. But now I see 
 it's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  great game you know what i mean tons of fun you know what i mean worth every penny that you pay 
 you know what i mean love the game you know what i mean better then guitar hero you know what i 
 mean worth of guitar hero 1 of the best games ive played in a while you know what i mean great 
 soundtrack you know what i mean very fun you know what i mean i can play this game for hours and 
 hours you know what i mean very good for the family you know what i mean this game almost perfect 
 but i can't agree with the price its so good this game play with all my buddys and friends it totaly 
 beats guitar hero anyday you will like this game if you like guitar hero 1 of the best games of 
 2007 i would say i do i do love the bands in thare like blink 182 in downloadable guns n' roses 
 mettalica and much more download able content is good too in this game also 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hikaru_Isamu
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I finally decided to splurge my money I had been saving on Rock Band. I had played it before with 
 a friend, thought it was decent enough. So, I head to GameStop to pick this big baby up.
  
  I ended up paying around $180 for this, after tax was added. Now, I realized that was steep, but 
 I bought it anyways. Hell, I should have fun with some friends anyways, and we get bored easy. 
 I'll consider it an investment.
  
  So I get home, spend around an hour assembling everything, and I finally get to play. I plug in 
 the guitar, ready to rock.
  
  The only problem being the guitar didn't work. Brand new, out of the box, the guitar doesn't work. 
 Awesome, I love that.
  
  So I try the drums. Surprisingly, they work. So did the microphone (albeit the microphone is a 
 little hard to use) .
  
  And that's what irks me about Rock Band. It's an excellent game, fun songs, great multiplayer, 
 in-depth customization, everything you could want out of a game. The only problem is that you can't 
 play it because of the hardware you get. Everything except the microphone feels cheap and plastic 
 (like a child's toy) . There's no way this equipment costs as much as the sticker price demands.
 
  
  In summation, if you're willing to put up with faulty hardware (which Harmonix is repairing for 
 free now, after realizing how badly they screwed up) , and pay the mind blowing price, you'll have 
 fun with this one.
  
  Otherwise, just play a real instrument. At least they're harder to break. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game as the game only as I already have a Guitar from Guitar Hero and really only 
 cared to play this game for the different songs that are not on Guitar Hero.
  
  The game is extremely fun and has different innovations from Guitar Hero. One of the greatest features 
 is that you can create your own rocker, guy or girl, and dress them like you want and adjust their 
 face and body features to try and match yourself. Not too many options tho.. I believe that is 
 what lacks, if they are going to make a create your own character option at least put a few more 
 options into it to create someone that can actually look like you, otherwise its pointless!
  
  The Guitar has a pretty good setup here and I do like how you can monitor your "star rating" 
 in the right corner so you can tell when you are about to hit a 5 star on the song... unlike Guitar 
 Hero 3 where you get a damn good score and then you get a freakin 4 star performance when you've 
 hit like 97% of the notes! This game allows you to monitor how close you are to getting the full 
 5 star rating.
  
  What I dislike on this game as compared to Guitar Hero 3 is that it doesn't monitor your streak 
 of notes as GH3 does (gh2 did not monitor the streat either) . I believe that would be a great feature.
 
  
  Honestly tho I believe this can very well be one of the greatest party games of all time. As you 
 can play guitar, bass, drums, and mic and get a whole band going and play and download online... 
 the possibilities are endless! This is by far one of the greatest creations in gaming history as 
 there are so many things you can do to keep the game going on and on for months. Problem comes 
 in the $170 price tag plus tax!
  
  BUT, if you only care about playing this gaem for the guitar songs and you already have a GUitar 
 Hero controller, then you can simply get the game by itself and play this just for the guitar riffs, 
 and the GH3 guitar is much better quality than the one that comes with Rock Band.
  
  Snag this game if you get a chance, it will go down in history as one of the greatest if not the 
 GREATEST party game of all time, don't miss out on it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is by far one the funnest games I have ever played with a local multiplayer or by myself. 
 Even if I don't have it, I have played before. Not at Best Buy, at a friends house at a party. 
 MTV Games makes its first good game for the first time since they bought HARMONIX! It features 
 great songs like "I Think Im Paranoid","Dead on Arrival","Blitzrig Bop", and "I'm So Sick" by Flyleaf.
 
  
  Singing is by far 2nd funnest feature! Singing new songs that you do now is your 15 like or something.
 
  
  Drums is #1 on the fun scale, Nothing like banging on a pad for 4 hours straight and feeling like 
 its a real drum.
  
  Gutair is #3 since it is old but they have new things, Insted of normal frets, You will sometimes 
 go into a solo and count the % on the solo you did.
  
  Multiplayer is best because you can, insted of one partner fails, the whole band fails like GH, 
 There soon muted and you have a chance by saving them in Overdrive (like Star Power) . Singers must 
 scream when a yellow plate comes by on there sreen, Gutair players but act like star power activate 
 it. Drummers must go crazy and hit the green note at the end where your free to play whatever note 
 you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  To be blunt, Rock Band tries to be what Guitar Hero is not. If you're expecting a game with relentless 
 difficulty for the guitar portions of every song then you'll be disappointed. While Guitar Hero 
 3 focused on nearly impossibly difficult guitar solos, Rock Band focuses on the co-op experience 
 and the feeling you get when playing in a band. 
  
  It's a rhythm game that has four parts to it. For every song in the game there's a guitar, bass, 
 drums and vocal section to it. Ideally you'd play Rock band with three others at the same time. Your 
 goal is to work together to perform your best and you get stars associated with how well you do. 
 The guitar and bass sections involve these colored notes that come at you and you need to hold 
 down the appropriate note on your guitar and then use your strum bar to hit notes. The drum parts 
 involve hitting the correct colored drum in time with the song. There's also a bass pedal and you 
 simply press down on it when you see a bass drum note coming at you. This works just like how you 
 would press the gas pedal down in a car. 
  
  The vocal sections play mostly the same as any other karaoke game in recent years. There are lyrics 
 that come at you that have little bars attached to them. The bars represent what pitch you're supposed 
 to be singing at. For example, if there's a bar at the top of the screen, you sing a high note 
 and when there's a bar at the bottom you sing a low note. During long breaks or solos, the singer 
 sometimes has little black notes that come at him/her and you have to slap the microphone against 
 your hand at the correct time in order to play cowbell or tambourine. This solves a worry that 
 you might have about the singer getting bored during some parts.
  
  Rock Band comes with 3 instruments out of the box -- a microphone, a drum set with drums sticks 
 and a guitar which you can also use as a bass guitar if you want. If you have Guitar Hero 2 or 
 3 on the Xbox 360 then you can use those guitars if you wish. Supposedly you can also use any USB 
 microphone with the game which includes the Xbox 360 headset. 
  
  The drums look like a small version of an electronic drum set that you can find at a music store. 
 The guitar that comes with Rock Band is pretty lousy compared to the Guitar Hero 3 controller. 
 The Rock Band guitar looks a lot less like a toy but the buttons have a cheap and plastic-like 
 feel to them. Sometimes the tilt functionality decides to stop working which is a nightmare in 
 the middle of a song. If you have the Guitar Hero 3 controller then that's by far your best option. 
 The microphone looks exactly like you would expect although it says "Rock Band" on it. I didn't 
 run into any problems with the mic but it's better than using the headset that I mentioned earlier. 
 
  
  The bread and butter of Rock Band is the World Tour mode which can be played with two, three or 
 four players. You start out as a band that plays in these dirty looking clubs and eventually you 
 can play in very large and elaborate looking venues. Based on how well your band plays you'll be 
 awarded with money, fans and stars. As you progress you'll be able to buy a good selection of outfits 
 for your character as well as play new gigs. A big problem is that there are parts where you have 
 to play six or seven songs in a row. If you're forced to play a song that you don't know the vocals 
 for, it's pretty scary.
  
  There are also solo careers that you can try for each instrument. This is exactly the same as Guitar 
 Hero's structure -- you just play increasingly difficult songs until you beat them all. On drums 
 it's fun but on guitar and vocals it's merely decent. Playing drums to a song that you know is 
 a very immersive experience. 
  
  Rock Band also has an online component to the game which is good but it's really just a distraction 
 from the single player. You can play Score duel and Tug of War, but they're almost the same anyway. 
 In Score duel, you both play the same instrument and difficulty level and you have to outscore 
 your opponent in points. In Tug of War, you alternate playing sections of the song but you still 
 have to outscore your opponent. The cool thing is that you can play drums or vocals online -- you're 
 not limited to guitar playing. The game does not lag at all but there's no penalty for your opponent 
 quitting in the middle of a song. I ran into several quitters and your experience may be the same. 
 Just remember to leave them bad feedback if they do this and you'll hopefully be fine in the future. 
 
  
  Rock Band's song list is weak compared to Guitar Hero 3. There are some fantastic songs like "Ballroom 
 Blitz" by Sweet, "Dani California" by Red Hot Chili Peppers and "Enter Sandman" by Metallica. The 
 song list also includes some of the worst songs I've heard in my life such as "Black Hole Sun" 
 by Soundgarden, "Orange Crush" by REM and "Creep" by Radiohead. When you mix the awful with the 
 awesome, you're left with a song list that's pretty good. The game also has some excellent downloadable 
 content with songs from all kinds of eras. There's something for everyone in terms of downloadable 
 content. Some examples would be The Grateful Dead if you like old stuff or Queens of The Stone 
 Age if you like new stuff. Funnily enough, the best songs in the entire game are ones that you 
 have to buy separately. 
  
  To compliment the sound is the game's outstanding graphics. All of the band members on stage move 
 very well and all of the lighting effects during performances are superb. There's one case when 
 you're playing "Don't Fear the Reaper" where the screen turns all green and it looks as if you've 
 taken a big hit of LSD. There are also some gorgeous looking stage effects like these things that 
 shoot out fire. 
  
  If you have nobody to play Rock Band with you then I can't recommend that you buy it. The game 
 is simply too expensive to justify a single-player-only experience. If you have at least one other 
 person who is willing to regularly play the game with you, Rock Band is a very fun game that can 
 potentially keep you busy for months. (if you plan to buy downloadable stuff) Thanks for reading. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gifteddie
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is by Harmonix, the original creators of Guitar Hero and decided to move on and manwere 
 they right. Rock Band is like Guitar Hero but with drums and a microphone. Rock Band is a great 
 concept and Harmonix nailed it... with a few problems. 
  Right now let's talk about the good, Rock Band the best multiplayer game of the year (local multiplayer 
 at least) . Playing Rock Band with my friends felt like we were a real band almost too real at times. 
 The game includes two new instruments, a microphone and a drum set. A microphone feels like exactly 
 something out of a karoke game while the drums is something completely new which will have to keep 
 coming back to play again just like the original Guitar Hero 2 years ago. We'll talk about the 
 other instruments later. The games setlist is great with a wide range of genres and tons of songs 
 for DLC if you get bored of playing Reptilia too much. The games multiplayer other then local has 
 quickplay where you play with other people to fill a band which is fun if you are bored and have 
 nobody to play with. It also has Score Duel where you battle against someone to get the higher 
 score and Tug of War where whoever hits more notes win. Both are fun but nothing special.
  Now onto the bad. If there's one huge problem people who have DLP, plasmas, and other HD tvs is 
 that even with the game calibrated the game will read your notes late which will be a huge pain 
 and sometimes prevent you from passing a song. Also the games instruments are really cheap. The 
 guitar is terrible, the frets are too close, and the strum sucks. The microphone won't read your 
 singing sometimes and if you singing on expert you won't stand a chance. The drums won't read your 
 notes sometimes when you hit it and the kick pedal can break very easily and most people have had 
 to return instruments because of these problems and I know I didn't pay $170 for some bootleg instruments. 
 It also doesn't have a bass career which is a bummer. 
  Other then those problems Rock Band is really fun and is the perfect game for you and your friends 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Rock and roll is a genre of music full of loud spirit, harmonious chords, creative chronicles of 
 hard, intense sounds. It's safe to say that rock is pure, unleashed power. What does this have 
 to do with video games? Rock Band would like to remind the gaming community of how powerful rock 
 can be, bringing a unique concert style rhythm game to the Xbox 360. Is Harmonix's latest beast 
 just what gamers needed to rock out?
  
  Rock Band is a combination of gameplay styles from three selectable instruments: the guitar, drum 
 set, and microphone (a second guitar controller can be used for bass guitar) . The guitar peripheral 
 for use in Rock Band is fun, and although the 360 version isn't gifted with a wireless axe, it 
 still is a rockin' time. The controller has the traditional neck buttons and whammy bar expected 
 from Guitar Hero, but also includes an effects switch which lets you change the effects of the 
 guitar controller into five different types of sounds. It isn't a huge change, but it does give 
 you some customization as to how you want your music to sound. If you've played Guitar Hero, Rock 
 Band's guitar sequences will seem familiar. Hold the neck buttons and strum at the right time to 
 match up the scrolling bars on screen. It's essentially the same thing, but Rock Band throws in 
 a few curveballs to keep the player interested. Closer to the strum switch is a set of small buttons, 
 which come in extra handy when the solos appear. Rapidly pressing the buttons during certain songs' 
 end lets you rack up point with detailed and fun solos. The guitar peripheral adds some clever 
 new buttons, and although it doesn't stray too far from the Guitar Hero formula, it's great fun.
 
  
  The drum set peripheral is made up of four drums and one pedal. As with the guitar, certain icons 
 scroll across the screen and you need to hit the corresponding drums at the right time. Simple. 
 The drums are relatively well built, but you still need to be pretty careful when using them. Fortunately, 
 they work incredibly well, making them one of the best parts of Rock Band. At points in some songs, 
 you get solos and drum fill moments to experiment with the rhythm. These, combined with the bass 
 pedal, are great exercises in drumming. The drumming sequences are ambitious and well-implemented, 
 making Rock Band's near-universal appeal even better.
  
  Last but not least is the microphone peripheral, which can be replaced with any USB microphone 
 or Xbox Live headset. Like in the Karaoke Revolution series, you sing into the mike and depending 
 on pitch and rhythm, the game judges your singing. The game can be pretty challenging if you don't 
 know the song, but many of the songs' catchy themes are well implemented. You'll see scrolling 
 lyrics, but the game still relies on simply rhythm and pitch, so it's not too complicated or demanding. 
 It may sound a bit embarrassing to sing at a party, but Rock Band implements the ideas so well, 
 that almost anyone can jump in and start singing.
  
  A rhythm game can't succeed without a good song-list, and Rock Band chronicles some of the greatest 
 rock anthems, ballads, and beats in rock history. It covers every rock subgenre seen in the past 
 few decades. There's a bunch of rock legends like R. E. M., The Rolling Stones, and Nirvana, along 
 with 90's hits from Metallica and Weezer. You also get some great modern songs from The Killers, 
 Coheed and Cambria, and Queens of the Stone Age. While the song list is incredible, it still feels 
 just a little bit sparse. 45 tracks clocks out the setlist, with 13 unlockable tracks from more 
 independent artists. It's great to see such comprehensiveness in the songs, but you will want more 
 at the end of the day.
  
  So it's a good thing for downloadable content, something that Harmonix delivers on all fronts. 
 At a small asking price, around 160 Microsoft Points (around $2.00) per song depending on the song 
 itself, there are dozens of cool new tracks to check out. The downloadable content catalog is just 
 as comprehensive as the main setlist, showing off artists like Faith No More, The Clash, and Nine 
 Inch Nails, and even modern artists like 30 Seconds to Mars and Serj Tankian. Harmonix is updating 
 the catalog consistently, so new bands are on the way. Yes, this is a great deal, but it makes 
 the main setlist feel rather starved. To get the most out of Rock Band, you'll need Xbox Live and 
 some funds to put towards a bigger overall setlist.
  
  Sure, the instruments and music are the stars of this rock show, but you can't do much with them 
 if you don't get lots of modes. This is where Rock Band stumbles a little. The main event is the 
 Band World Tour. In this mode, you and up to three friends locally create rock star avatars and 
 play through different songs as a group. You travel to different cities and perform together just 
 like a real band would. This is great and easily one of the most creative multiplayer modes seen 
 in a long, long time. The problem? It's not online. Unless you have some friends that you can talk 
 to often, getting the most out of the Band World Tour mode is more difficult than it should be. 
 Although you can't play the Band World Tour online, you can select Quickplay for a quick jam session 
 with another player locally or online. You can also learn how to play each instrument in Tutorial 
 mode, along with a lighter-paced Practice Mode. Solo players get a Solo Tour mode for either of 
 the instruments, where you play songs that you can unlock in Quickplay. This does feel simpler 
 than the Band World Tour; Rock Band proves that it's for multiplayer first, single-player second. 
 It's fun, but if the modes were a bit more accessible, Rock Band would be a true winner.
  
  The most glaring flaw in Rock Band is its price. At $170, Rock Band doesn't come cheap. It's one 
 of the most expensive games in recent years. However, it's definitely worth the price, whether 
 you're a rock-and-roll lover or a casual listener. Rock Band has a ton of songs and gameplay to 
 check out, and although the price is high and the single-player isn't as fleshed out as it should 
 be, Rock Band delivers a rock experience unlike anything on the market today.
  
  Pros
  + Instrument peripherals are tons of fun to play
  + Song list has plenty of classics, modern 
 hits, and rock anthems
  + Extensive downloadable content catalog
  + Excellent multiplayer
  
  Cons
  - Expensive
  - Solo mode doesn't compare to the fun multiplayer 
 Band World Tour mode
  - Default song list could've been a bit longer
  
  Rock Band is a very, very cool game. The three different peripherals' respective gameplay aspects 
 work great alone, but it's when you can get your best gaming friends playing the instruments that 
 Rock Band manages to be a party game beyond anything seen on the Xbox 360. However, it's also very, 
 very pricey compared to many other music games released, and with so much downloadable content, 
 you'd think that Harmonix could've added a few more songs to the default song list before asking 
 for more money with the Marketplace. If you have the funds required, Rock Band is refreshingly 
 unique with plenty of staying power and fun moments. Sure, some of the game's concepts are painfully 
 similar to other music games, but the inclusion of such absolutely stellar multiplayer, both cooperatively 
 and competitively, makes the entire package better than a simple copycat game. Rock Band is definitely 
 one of 2007's most ambitious titles. Harmonix has successfully created a near-precise simulation 
 of being in a Rock Band, making Rock Band for the 360 one of the most interesting and accessible 
 of any rhythm games released in the past decade. Rock on, friends. Rock on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hello_Kitty_Man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  In 2007 you either bought Rock Band or Guitar Hero 3.
  
  Guitar Hero obviously focusing on guitar riffs and insane finger breaking songs was more of a single 
 player experience. Yeah, okay you can play with a friend or go online to play 1 on 1 but that's 
 beside the point.
  
  Rock Band on the other hand isn't really about the guitar (even though when at my friend's house 
 that's all I play anyway) it's more about a band feeling. It's a party game that combines the coolness 
 of guitar hero with the embarassment of playing Singstar and the craziness of playing the drums. 
 
  
  Now the game launched with I believe 54 songs while Guitar Hero 3 launched with 72. However a pack 
 of song titles is now being released about every week for Rock Band and I don't think there is 
 a schedule for Guitar Hero expansions. By now Rock Band has plenty more songs than Guitar Hero 
 (although you have to pay for them but same for Guitar Hero)
  
  Although Rock Band has proven to me to be a better party game and music game it is still hard to 
 have real fun on it unless you're house is a cross roads for everyone in your town. The online 
 play isn't too fun because you can't chat while you're playing (plus you can't hear the singer 
 make a complete arse of themself over the mic) Online would have picked itself up a considerable 
 sum if it had included a kind of online world tour which is the new fresh game mode that it pulled 
 out with over Guitar Hero. 
  
  Again even with the two new instruments added (singing with me and my friends isn't a good choice 
 because the first thing you say will be a sign of weakness and you'll get hit in the back with 
 a guitar or drumstick) the one I play anyway is the guitar. I shred with guitar I can play every 
 song in that game on expert with the guitar behind my back (yeah it does ache) I love Rock Band 
 because now I can gloat for every glorious victory I have right in my friend's face.
  
  Rock Band is a great game and if you have the extra cash you should buy it over guitar hero. Also 
 if you're a gloating jerk like me you can't go wrong with this. If only they made a Polka Band 
 then i could really show off my Accordion skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamEs4eVr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I thought the guitar was well designed because when the solos come i enjoy not strumming the hard 
 notes. The vocalism was fairly hard but after a while i got used to it and it got easier. The drums 
 were easily the hardest instrument to master. Overall the game was good. The graphics were good. 
 The overdrive was probably my favorite thing about the game because you could keep it as long as 
 you could. The online multiplayer is fantastic but sometimes it takes pretty long to find a match. 
 The band world tour was fun until you reach so many fans and everybody has to be on at least expert 
 or hard to earn more fans. Its fun beacause you can all your friends together and laugh, have a 
 good time, or just get mess around on xbox live. Other than that i thought the multiplayer was 
 better than Gh3. They could have made the gameplay a little faster though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Ever hought of this while playing Guitar hero?: "Man, it would be awesome to actually sing this 
 song, or even play drums." If you thought of that at one point or another, Harmonix heard you and 
 answered you with probably the most funnest game you'll ever play.
  
  Basically, the game is almost exactly the same as Guitar Hero, except you get a mic, 2 guitars 
 (a lead and bass, and their both Fender Stratocasters) and a drum set. Honestly its fun being all 
 4, but I find it more fun than anything more fun to play drums than anything else (try playing 
 "Flirtin' With Disaster" on expert) . Its also really fun to play lead guitar and do vocals simultaneously 
 (which, I can do) . Anyways, the tracklist: where do I start with that? Its pretty awesome, though 
 not as awesome as GH3's tracklist (though you gotta love playing "Enter Sandman", "Black Hole Sun" 
 and "Run To the Hills") . Also included in this game that's awesome is the world tour mode. Yeah, 
 its fun..... honestly, only if you have 2 or 3 other people. You can still play by yourself (which 
 I've done before) , but its not as fun. Howvevr, it still is awesome to have 4 people; having one 
 guy sing, one play lead, one play bass, and one play drums. Trust me, if me, my brother, my cousin 
 and my friend have as much fun as we do on this game, I gurantee you'll have alot of fun as well.
 
  
  All in all, besides the tracklist and the expensiveness (WTF?! 170?!) Rock Band is a ton of fun, 
 and is as close as you can get to being in a real rock band. So grab your friends, give them a 
 mic, guitar or drumsticks, pick a song, and jam out, ladies and gentlemen! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuadraxisIV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard through an Xbox Magazine that Harmonix had split from Red Octane and was developing 
 a guitar game for Xbox 360, I thought it would be a toned down version of Guitar Hero. I was a 
 little happy that, unlike Red Octane, Harmonix was no longer the slave of the sell-outs at Sony, 
 however. But I had no idea that Rock Band was to be the next best music video game on any console. 
 Rock Band completely blows Guitar Hero away in both co-op play and solo performance. I know, you 
 probably have that idiot at your school who down-talks Rock Band because they couldn't afford it. 
 And I also know that you probably think it's way over priced, but on a playability-to-cost ratio, 
 it completely beats Guitar Hero. Most of your time will be spent on Xbox Live, playing as a band 
 or going head-tohead in 1 on 1 playoffs. But don't think that means you have to have Xbox Live 
 to have fun. Even if you can't get your friends or family to play with you, there's still alot 
 more solo gameplay to experience. So whether you're a Band member or a solo artist, this game will 
 provide hours, nay days of quality rockin' fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllHal0sADdiCt
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 28, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games in the world. if you are sick of playing the guitar on guitar 
 hero 3, and wish the drummer and singer didn't look like they are on drugs, GET THIS GAME. rock 
 band is a game that you and your geeky friends (just kidding!) can stay home and play all day long 
 without wishing you went with one of the other games in the store. the graphics are great and the 
 set list of songs is awesome. the cool thing about it is that if two people want to play guitar 
 you can use the guitar on guitar hero 2&3 to play on rock band! its a little hard to get used to 
 at first, but when you do, it is great. i recommend playing the first 3 or 4 songs on easy then 
 bump it up to medium, then 10 or so songs later, bump it up to hard. so to make a long review short, 
 this is a FREAKIN AWESOME  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JED_Saje
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:44 pm PT
Review:  u cant have more fun in a game than having all you closest friends over and playing deep into the 
 night. THe music is great the new dlc everyweek keeps the game fun and new and no need to go out 
 and buy a new game in the next 3 years
  
  good job harmonix you hit the nail on the head
  
  the only problems that i have and the same as everyone elts the hardware my drums broke my 
 guitar and well now my peddle. hardware sucks but if u get the new upgrades than its much better
 
  
  you have to really hit the notes for guitar on the head or it wont register guitar hero 3 has a 
 little more leadway with that
  
  i give its an over all 10 because the game is so much fun, and im not rating the hardware :-D
 
  
  ive found that the guitar hero 3 controler (360) is better to use because it has the click that 
 just my prefrence but i need the click to know what im doing but the RB strat has the great but 
 anoying feature of the effects switch becuase if you hit it on accedent its not wat you like but 
 i love the extra 5 fret buttons those are a lot of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drakonar
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Hello folks. Right now, I am reviewing the game "Rock Band" for the X-Box 360. I am going to categorize 
 this amazing game into different sections for your reading pleasure.
  
  We'll start with the instruments. In Rock Band, you get 3 instruments. A guitar, A microphone, 
 and a drum set. However, the guitar can also be used for bass, meaning, technically, 4 instruments. 
 The instruments are very nice, the microphone is genuine, the drumset works very well, but I felt 
 the guitar was a little rushed. I think the Guitar Hero guitar worked much better.
  
  Next, we have Gameplay. You use the above instruments to, who woulda guessed, play songs! Every 
 drum beat, every guitar note, and every word in the song are played by you and your band. You are 
 given an ample amount of songs, and multiple difficulties to play them on. On the Guitar, you hold 
 fret buttons whilst strumming. On the Drums, you obviously drum. And to sing, you sing along with 
 lyrics shown to you on the screen whilst adjusting your pitch to the song.
  
  Now, on to Rock Bands difficulties. The game offers players 4 difficulties. Easy, Normal, Hard, 
 And Expert. Most beginners choose easy, but soon move on to medium. In this game, easy mode is 
 EXTREMELY easy. Medium is just about right for beginners, and hard takes it up a notch. Expert, 
 however, is usually not even playable until you have sunk many hours into the game practicing your 
 instrument of choice.
  
  The Multiplayer is where this game really shines. You can play with a home-made band and take a 
 tour around the world, gathering fans and fame whilst playing songs, or go to the internet with 
 direct competition game modes such as tug of war and score duel. In these modes, you play against 
 an online opponent and see who is better at their instrument. This game is just perfect at parties, 
 and even on singleplayer, you can start a solo tour as a musician and practice your songs.
  
  Lastly, Harmonix releases a steady flow of downloadable songs to Rock Band, adding even further 
 replayability as you test your skills against all new songs. This game is well worth the money 
 spent to buy it, and gets a ten out of ten in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homersghost
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  this game has length, multi player, lots of songs, graphics (ok) , ect. but it has some problems. 
 NO ONLINE BAND WORLD TOUR! (this is crazy the best part of the game has no online) and the microphone 
 is so hard to play with its nearly imposable to sing. also it could use better character customization. 
 it also very expensive only buy it if you got the cash! but over all its a cool game. so if you 
 have the money and your willing to spend it i would recommend buying it. but thats just my opinion 
 if you do not have the money and you love rhythm games just go buy guitar hero 3. (rock band is 
 better but you are going to want to buy all of the stuff so if you dot got the money go by guitar 
 hero 3)  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the Guitar Hero series and you are getting bord of playing the same songs on 
 the same instrument over and over again, then this is the game for you. This game is absolutely 
 amazing, it has anything you will ever need to rock out with and not pick up an actual instrument. 
 Whether you like to play guitar, bass, drums or even sing, you can do it in this game. If you like 
 rock n' roll, this is the perfect game for you to satisfy your rock hunger and unleash the beast 
 inside of you that has been dying to escape since the day you were born! This is a must buy for 
 EVERYBODY, you will definitely love this game regardless of the type of music you like. Heck, you 
 could even get your grandma to play if you wanted to, thats how absolutely exhilerating it is. 
 So im telling you right now, jump into your car, race down to your local EB Games or Wal Mart, 
 and buy this game NOW. You most definitely wont be disappointed, and neither will your grandma! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoX40
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  This game Rock band is a cool game. This game is really cool in its own right u really feell like 
 your a rock star the games graphics are amazing nothing short of awesome. The only problem i have 
 with this game is that the multiplayer could have had a bit more variety. But other than that everything 
 else is great. I'll talk a bit about the sound, the sound is amazing even if u have 5.1 dolby the 
 game will sound amazing, u'll be glad u have surround sound for a game like this. The music in 
 this game is superB great variety here. Also the feature of having the choice to have a full on 
 band is amazing and thats why my pick is Rock Band over the Guitar Hero series go out and buy this 
 game now if u have the cash but if u don't save up because u will not regret it. The game has a 
 heavy price tag but its worth every penny trust me when I tell u this GAME IS SO MUCH BETTER THEN 
 GUITAR HERO GO OUT AND BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleTauren
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  Don't you love Music? Don't you? Well, if you do just get this game, right now.
  
  
  
  
  
  Now, for all you people who don't love music so much as to blindly grab a game without 
 knowing anything read onwards. Rock Band is a rhythm game where you in short: just have to hit 
 the right notes at the right time. The game comes with 3 different instruments to do this with. 
 The drums, the microphone and guitar are all very fun to play in their own rights. The game also 
 allows anyone with a Guitar controller to play the Bass instead, which despite being incredibly 
 dull is a great way to rack up points, however the game does not come with 2 guitars to have one 
 Guitarist and one bassist so either buy another guitar controller or just use one from another 
 Guitar Hero game. All the instruments are very different and if you listen to the song you can 
 hear that you are drumming/shredding very close to the song. The Guitar is pretty much Guitar Hero, 
 it has 5 fret buttons (which you have to press at the right time in coordination with strumming 
 in order to play a note) , a strummer, a whammy bar (which you push up and down on long notes to 
 give them different sounds.) and solo buttons. The Solo buttons can be used normally with strumming 
 but in Solos you can move down to them to play on them and you don't have to strum. Unrealistic, 
 but it can help you a lot. In order to activate your 'overdrive' (which is just a power up to get 
 the crowd going wild) you just have to move up the guitar or just smash the back button. The drums 
 have four different pads and a kick pad. You have to kick the kick-pedal whenever an orange bar 
 appears across the screen. When you have enough energy a 'drum fill' will show up which is where 
 you just smash on the drums and try to end with a symbol crash. If you do, then you activate your 
 overdrive. These controllers also both feature some normal buttons as well to navigate through 
 menus and such. The Microphone is just a mic that you have to sing the words into at the right 
 length and pitch. (Thankfully?) The mic doesn't record what words you're saying so you don't have 
 to sing the right words and can just hum or meow along if you don't know the song. You also have 
 to whack it to use it as a tambourine sometimes however if you don't hit these the crowd won't 
 really care, you just won't get any points. While you're playing through a song and you miss some 
 notes the crowd will not like it and 'boo' if you miss enough notes you'll get boo'd off the stage. 
 If you're playing with a band though and they activate their overdrive you come back. However, 
 when you're knocked out the rest of your band loses crowd love and you can only be saved twice. 
 The more notes you get in a row the larger point multiplier you get so the more points you get. 
 Depending on how many points you get, you get different 1-5 ratings.
  The game has four different difficulty settings.
  Easy: Which only uses the first 3 fret buttons 
 on the guitar and less notes. Most drum patterns are very simple. Singing is not judged harshly 
 so you can mess up a few notes and still get "Awesome" across the screen.
  Medium: Which only uses the first 4 fret buttons on the guitar and not too many notes. Drum patterns 
 are usually simple although it might take a while to get onto the pattern. Singing is judged normally.
 
  Hard: Uses all 5 notes on the guitar, however doesn't use the last note too much. Drum patterns 
 are close to the real deal, singing is judged critically.
  Expert: Complicated note patterns show up on the guitar, sometimes using the last and first fret 
 button together or 3 notes at a time (instead of 2 or 1 as in easier modes) , Drumming is near identical 
 to their real counterparts and singing is judged harshly.
  
  The game features several different tour modes. Each tour on different instruments and then a Band 
 world tour. In order to play on these you must make your character which you can deck out with 
 items at the Rock store, which can be very fun sometimes. The in the solo tours you just play through 
 all the songs, however, in Band World tour mode you make up your own band and go around the world 
 getting everything a band essentially needs. The band World tour mode can be played with 2-4 different 
 people, however you can also do it by yourself i you can sing while playing another instrument. 
 
  
  The songs in this game number 58, however 13 of those are from lesser known bands and some of them 
 were made inside Harmonix. (The makers of the game) . It spreads across many different genres and 
 several songs are covers, but I can't tell the difference at all. The game also features over 70 
 different Downloadable songs which usually sell at $2 each.
  
  The game looks great graphically and the art style is very realistic. All of the outfits are well-designed 
 and are very 'Rock and Roll-esque'. Some animations in Solos are great.
  
  Now, time to go to the inevitable problems with this game. The price of this game is around $170 
 and with all the instruments you get, its definitely reasonable. (The guitar hero 3 bundle with 
 the guitar is $100. The Microphone and the Drums are definitely worth $70) however the kick-pedal 
 isn't all too great. Mine broke 2 weeks into playing and I ordered a better custom made version 
 off of Amazon for $20. If you plan on getting this game, I strongly suggest ordering one before 
 you get the game so that its there just in case. I was able to duct tape up the Bass pedal but 
 it doesn't register some notes and well... yeah.
  
  The game features Online Play, but its only quick play, leader boards and such, normal stuff that 
 the game has normally in Local Multiplayer and single player mode. However, it doesn't have the 
 Band World tour mode online so if you don't have at least one person around to ROCK OUT with, the 
 $170 might be better spent on Guitar Hero.
  
  Despite these flaws, I'm giving this game a 9.0 out of 10 because it really is fun and you just 
 get this magical feeling when you're playing in a band with your friends or even just playing the 
 Guitar while singing. I've clocked in about 40 hours on this game and plan to clock in quite a 
 few more as I still haven't beaten the Band World Tour mode.
  So, end result:
  If you can get a couple people together to play or just cough up enough money, Rock Band definitely 
 warrants a purchase and shall be known as the best party game in history. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is developed by Harmonix the guys behind Guitar Hero. This year the guys took it one 
 step forward and introduced not only the guitar, but also drums and singing into the mix. This 
 leads to one of the best family and friends experiences I have ever had playing a video game. 
 
  
  Rock Band's set up is very nice. It is set-up well and plays out well. First lets talk about the 
 instruments themselves. The guitar control, which can also be a bass, is very much the same as 
 the Guitar Hero controller. It has five buttons that are all color coordinated with the button 
 you are supposed to press. The drums work the very much the same way, but you have to hit the drum 
 set according to color as well, and use the foot-petal too. Singing is very much like a karaoke 
 game. The words scroll across and you have to match the pitch. Playing all these together you can 
 become a great band.
  
  Rock Band features two playing modes: a solo tour and Band World Tour. Solo tour is essentially 
 Guitar Hero. You can play this mode with any of the instruments. Solo tour is nice, but you really 
 want to play Rock Band with someone else. Band World Tour is what Rock Band is all about. You and 
 up three other friends can create a band and start touring the world. You each can create a custom 
 character and even name your band. You start out as a little band playing in your home city, which 
 you select. As you play more and more you unlock new cities. Eventually you will be prompted to 
 play in a concert to unlock new traveling means such as a van or bus. This allows to play in even 
 more cities and more places. World Tour does have it's problems. You can not play World Tour online 
 with anyone. A major setback. You also have to move up in difficulty as you progress through World 
 Tour. (Note: As I went through Band World Tour this was still a problem, but I believe a new patch 
 fixed this.) 
  
  Rock Band does feature a "battle mode" called Tug-of-War, where you can face off against someone 
 playing the same instrument. When doing this you each play a part of song and push each meter down. 
 Once the song is over and the person who has the other person pushed all the way down is the winner. 
 It is an interesting battle thing, but more would be nice.
  
  You can't help but to talk about the track list in Rock Band. Rock Band features a lot of great 
 songs already included with the game. The does feature a in game music store that allows you to 
 buy more songs to play in Rock Band. Many great songs are available for download at reasonable 
 prices. 
  
  Fans of Guitar Hero will find themselves at home with this one. But Rock Band does have limitations. 
 As I mentioned no online World Tour is possible at the moment of this review. Rock Band's imitation 
 instruments do have their limitations. The drums do not always respond and the foot petal is frail, 
 so people with lead feet be warned. 
  
  These are only minor problems, all of which can be fixed. I recommend this to all. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie456
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:08 am PT
Review:  I remember hearing about this game and expeciting it to be a over hyped, over priced, rip off of 
 one of my favorite games to date Guitar Hero. But, I could not have been more wrong. To be put, 
 simply you can buy all the shooters and all the rpgs but, none of those games will give you what 
 the fun, energetic and party feel this game gives you. 
  Rock Band is the kinda game that every kindergardener wants to go play, every college student wants 
 to go play and every senior wants to go play. Its just a simple concept that is fun. Its difficult 
 ranges from every where so anyone can jump in and more serious gamers can begin to excel at the 
 game ( but, take in mind that hardcore guitar player will find guitar much more simple) . But, all 
 of this has been said and done with guitar hero and if your human you've probly played guitar hero 
 and are aware of its Multiplayer friendly gameplay. Rock Band is just like that.
  Rock Band simply just gives Guitar Hero that much more with Drums and Microphones added. The features 
 in the game are such a step up in guitar hero and add so much to the game. If you want to invite 
 your friends over on a saturday you cna start a world tour, design your guy and your own band. 
 The Bandmembers that you created are even in the loading screen and the game pretty much gives 
 you the atmosphere that you are in the actual biggest band on earth.
  Although it is a great game there are some minor flaws. As I said before the game is pretty simple 
 for Guitar Hero Experts and also if you are a gamer that actully plays drums you will find them 
 alot easier to catch on and will probly be getting through hard the first week (although I didn't 
 expect harmonix get concerned over those who actully play drums) But, these are by far no reason 
 to turn you off of this game.
  This game really has to be enjoyed at a party or with friends to be appericiated. I can say all 
 I want this game but, you won't know how good this game actully is until you play with a bunch 
 or your friends. Great game and I would suggest it from to any one who can afford it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthonynohtna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  This gam ROCKS!!!! I mean, what's not to like; you make your own rocker, pimp him/her out, play 
 songs co-op-ly (if thats a word) and it's fun online. The bad; you kinda cover songs, the drums 
 are loud as hell, I was hoping it would give me some freedom into making my own lyrics and heart-stopping 
 riffs, not to mention your guitar sticks on every powerchord you hit, so that flat out sucks. Guitar 
 Hero is much more harder and exciting, but the drums will take months to master if your human. 
 The gameplay is new with big rock endings, custom drum fills, and guitar solos. Playing the game 
 with family and friends is very amazing and will have you up for hours at night, just don't wake 
 the neighbors, because like i said, loud drums. So don't just play by yourself, you will want to 
 start a band in order to fully live the experience. Rock on!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_blaze5609
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 11:31 pm PT
Review:  rock band is a very fun game. some people say its "to expensive" or "a rip off of guitar hero" are 
 completely wrong. this game is sweet, there is basically 4 instruments to choose from, bass, lead 
 guitar, vocals, and drums (drums being the new addition and loads of fun!) . well most people will 
 start out in carrer where you are a new band trying to get big, through this time you will get 
 roadies, a tour bus and other cool things like that. one big new thing i liked was the custimizing 
 of characters. theres loads of diferent clothing to choose from, not to mention you can fully customize 
 and make your own shirts two. the gameplay is really fun, for some people who are two lazy to learn 
 to play a real instrument and are tired of lonley strumming out to guitar hero now can get all 
 there friends together and rock out. all the instruments are super fun to use. singing is actually 
 very fun which is a suprize to me because ive never been much of a singer. and drums are very, very 
 fun to play, one of the things i like about drums is how you use your star power (or whatever the 
 rockband term is) anyway throught the songs there are cool little 4 second parts in which the player 
 can do there own little free solo which is really fun to play around with. also with the new rockband 
 guitar you now have these close up buttons on the guitar for solos, theese are really cool and give 
 the feeling that you really are shreding like a pro. theres also a little switch that lets you 
 change the sound of your guitar. and one last really cool thing is the freestyle solos at the end 
 of some songs that lets every member of the band just go out with a BANG! and is a last thing to 
 rack up a ton of points at the end of the song. finaly rockband does what its supposed to and more 
 and truely does ROCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  to write this song as simple as possible, I'll just name off the reasons you should get this game.
 
  
  1. You get a slick guitar
  2. You get a drum set
  3. You get a microphone
  4. its got four player coop
  5. its got alot of great songs
  6. its got the gameplay of guitar 
 hero
  7. you can make your own rock star
  8. you can play online multiplayer
  9. there are alot of downloadable songs
  10. there are a few good songs fron GHIII in this game 
 too
  
  if that doesnt make you wanna buy it I don't know what will, fire up the amps, this world is ready 
 to rock!
  
  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I
  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Linik0007 review I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I
  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elite00
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Ok to get this out of the way yes I also own Guitar Hero and yes I believe Rock Band is better. 
 
  Pros- Takes the mechanics from Guitar Hero and builds on them
  Awesome soundtrack to play
  Drums are way better than anything... EVER
  
  Cons- parts can 
 be fragile (got mine at Christmas and the guitar broke about at New Years took 1 whole month to 
 get back) : (
  if you don't know the words you can't sing it PERIOD
  takes about 5 hours to finish on easy or medium 
  
  
  So you see Rock Band for about $170 
 give or take. Now your thinking WTF but dont it is only $90 bucks more than Guitar Hero 3 for triple 
 the package. You get a Guitar (duh) a drum set and a mic. That means 3 friends to rock with. Plus 
 theres a second guitar (sold separately) or you can go online with 3 people. But there is a catch 
 some parts are fragile like the kick pedal and guitar so be careful. Finally if you'll looking 
 for a long solo career Which is depressing and stupid. The name is multiplayer hear it roar. 
 
  
  One last note on the 360 ONLY you CAN use the Guitar Hero controller! so if you do own a 360 Guitar 
 Hero guitar you can just buy a drum set which is now sold separately so rejoice Xbox 360 owners 
 rejoice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boostinsane
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  let me start off by saying that THE GUITAR THAT COMES FOR THIS GAME IS TERRIBLE. if you have a 
 little extra cash in your pocket, don't hesitate to pick up a guitar hero guitar because the one 
 that comes with the game is pretty bad. mines broke after about an hours use and i had to send 
 it back to EA to get it replaced. besides the guitar, everything else is awesome. the weekly content 
 adds tons of songs to the library. feels awesome when you play with friends. feels awesome when 
 you play alone. solid create-a-character (although i'm crossing my fingers and hoping they'll make 
 cool, gimmicky drums for the drummer available soon through the DLC) . graphics are good. song variety 
 gets better as more becomes available on the DLC. not as overwhelmingly difficult as guitar hero 
 but way more fun. a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero5link
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I'm not just saying that because its not just guitar (like guitar hero) , but 
 because its just an amazing experience. 
  
  Drums- My favorite part is the drums. its just so different and its so fun, it's just the best 
 part for me.
  
  Guitar- I like the guitar, but i can barely do like one or two songs on hard. This guitar is way 
 better than Guitar Hero Guitar.
  
  Mic- I don't really sing alot but this game makes it fun and funny when singing. I still Like the 
 singing though
  
  This game has great songs to choose from also, weezer, to nirvana, NIN, Bon Jovi, Killers, Etc. 
 This game is really great especially at parties, and i enjoy this game alot when me and my brothers 
 are playing. this is a really great buy, but the price is a little bit of a downfall. It's still 
 worth the price though.
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics-8/10 (very colorful)
  Gameplay-10/10
  Control-10/10
  Playability-10/10
  Overall-9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrQuest77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I played guitar hero before this game and I was a little bit disappointed by the difficulty of 
 most of the songs, as in my first time though the game I 5 or gold starred all but 3 songs on expert 
 guitar. However, the downloadable songs (like the metallica pack) are much more difficult, which 
 was very nice.
  
  In terms of setlist this is fantastic, as there are songs for everyone. The game retains a lot 
 of value just because of the fact that when you beat the game once, you still can beat it in two 
 other ways (in terms of instruments) . 
  
  My one beef with Rock Band is that the peripherals break pretty easily, as I broke my drum pedal 
 within 2 weeks of using it; there are replacements easily found via ebay, but it is a little disappointing 
 that it is so flimsy. 
  I also know people who have broken their guitars; on that note, the peripherals themselves look 
 great, especially the guitar, but I must say that the strummer for the guitar is frustrating to 
 use after playing guitar hero because it's harder to tell whether you strummed or not and this 
 is a video game after all.
  Another slight problem with the peripherals is that the bass pedal can sometimes be impossible 
 to play (during double taps) since it is not very sensitive.
  
  In terms of multiplayer, this is one of the best games I have ever played, and you can easily get 
 sucked in for hours. The only missing piece is being able to play an online world tour.
  
  Overall this game is fantastic, I highly recommend it if you have the money, and if you don't I'm 
 sure you can find 3 other friends who would be willing to pitch in to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bladealpha92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  It takes about 10 min to open the box, set everything up, and get playing. The game is based on 
 rock bands, of course, and the object is to use your instrument-controllers and play notes that 
 come toward you like DDR. All of the songs you get to play are REAL songs like Welcome to the Jungle, 
 Creep, and Gimme Shelter. There are four instruments you can play: guitar, drums, bass guitar, 
 and singing. In this review I'll explain all four instruments, the different game types, and give 
 my overall score. The guitar and bass guitar play with the same controller and in the same way; 
 it is the same as Guitar Hero: there are 5 tracks in front of you, with notes coming down towards 
 you. When the colored notes hit the slots at the bottom of the tracks, press the corresponding 
 fret button on the neck of the guitar and pluck the strum bar simultaneously like you would pick 
 the string on a guitar. The drums are similar: when the notes come to the bottom of the tracks, 
 hit the corresponding drum. The only difference is that there are orange bars that are 4 notes 
 long (all the drum tracks) which you have to push the foot pedal to hit. The singing is like karaoke: 
 sing the words as they go by. If you buy the full $129 bundle, you get one guitar, one drum set, 
 and one microphone. BEFORE YOU BUY, READ THIS: any Xbox 360 guitar will work, and you can use the 
 headset for the 360 for singing, the only thing that isn't otherwise compatible is the drum set, 
 which you can also buy separately for about $80. Also, unlike Guitar Hero, you cannot play guitar 
 or bass or drums with the regular Xbox controller, you must use the instruments. You can also use 
 any USB microphone or the headset for singing. Now for the game types. Rock Band features a single 
 player game type where you can play through the songs in World Tour, Quickplay, or Xbox Live mode. 
 In World Tour, you play in many different venues around the world, such as Tokyo, LA, and Berlin. 
 You create your own character, and with money you earn by playing songs, you can customize his 
 clothes, tattoos, instruments, and hair. World Tour is how you unlock songs. In Quickplay, you 
 can quickly play any song you have unlocked, but it picks a random character, outfit, and venue 
 for you to play in. Xbox Live features online matchmaking, where you can duel a random other person 
 from Live on the same instrument, or you can set up your own match with one of your Live friend 
 and duel or play together in a band. Now for multiplayer. You can only play with one person on 
 the same Xbox over Live, but you can play with up to 4 people on the same Xbox through local multiplayer. 
 You basically have the same options as single player local: Tour and Quick. You can also practice 
 songs in single player: you pick your song, difficulty and speed, which is Full Speed, 90%, 80%, 
 and so on down to 50%. In practice mode you cannot fail a song but you gain no points for practicing 
 it. There are 4 difficulty modes: Easy, Normal, Hard, and Expert. If you have never played before, 
 go with Easy and work your way up. My favorite thing about Rock Band is the short, 30-minute learning 
 curve. Once you get the hang of it, Rock Band is a fun, addictive game that will keep you going 
 for weeks. It's also a GREAT party game! My scores are as follows:
  
  Gameplay: 9.5 / 10
  
  Graphics: 8 / 10
  
  Music: 10 / 10
  
  Time to Fully Beat: 144 hours
  
  Overall: 
 9.5 / 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud551
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  So, a game that takes the great gameplay of Guitar Hero, adds Singing and Drums, weekly new DLC, 
 AND 4-player co-op? Sounds great on paper, but the experience is shallow and short-lived.
  
  Well, I'll start with the guitar. It's bad. Really bad. Hammer-ons and pull-offs are inaccurate, 
 inconsistent, and sometimes hard to distinguish from normal notes. Anyone who has played Rock Band 
 can tell you how the game just hates you. You will hit a note, you will KNOW you hit the note, 
 but it just decides that you didn't. Also, pitch inconsistency. You will hear the notes in the 
 song stay the same, yet the notes you have to play will change. And that makes no sense. Now, the 
 guitar controller itself. Yeah, it looks more realistic than other guitar controllers, but you 
 can't judge a book by it's cover. The strum bar doesn't click like the Guitar Hero ones do, and 
 while that may save you from a headache or two, it's hard to determine how far you have to push 
 it in order for it to register. Bottom frets? No thanks. Convenient, maybe, but they're smaller 
 than the top ones, and you'll have to learn the correct fingering positions all over again. You 
 would normally only use them in solos. And by the time you got your fingers down in the right position, 
 you've failed the song. A useless feature. Bottom line, the guitar wouldn't seem as bad if Guitar 
 Hero weren't the competition.
  
  Drums. Now, HERE'S a part of the game I can agree with. They're fun, but they suffer from the same 
 accuracy issues that the guitar does, only slightly worse. The drums are basically the selling 
 point of Rock Band, and for good reason. They're unique, and THERE ISN'T ALREADY ANOTHER GAME BASED 
 ON THEM.
  
  Bass Guitar? Nope. See the guitar section. Plus, I swear sometimes on guitar I'm playing bass parts, 
 and sometimes on Bass I'm playing guitar parts.
  
  Singing. Decent, but it feels like it was just thrown in at the last second. Once again, a feature 
 that was outdone by it's competitors, this time by Karaoke Revolution. Plus sometimes it won't 
 let you activate your Overdrive, no matter how loud you scream into the microphone.
  
  Now, the song list. At one point, you'll be playing Country, then Rock, then Punk, then Oldies, 
 then back to Rock, then Metal, and some songs that can't be accurately described. Plus the song 
 difficulties are inconsistent. Nearly all songs are incredibly easy, and the ones that aren't are 
 incredibly hard. There's no median.
  
  Complaints aside, if you can get over the regular amounts of bull**** that this game sends at you 
 every few seconds, you'll find a game that... well, just a decent game. The drums saved this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evan175
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  This was one of the best games i have played here are some of the things i like and didnt like 
 about the game. Deffinitly beats the competition, love how you get a bunch of friends together 
 and rock out to your favourite songs, mostly all of the songs were originals not covers, tons of 
 downloadable songs on Xbox Live, the guitar you get with the game is almost full size unlike guitar 
 hero, like the sound effects on the guitar, and for two hundred dollars you get a guitar, microphone, 
 and drums not a bad price. What i didn't like was the guitar felt a little cheap, the single player 
 career isnt as good as the multiplayer, wasnt a whole lot of songs on the disc alone. This game 
 is a deffinite pick up, an instant classic , and very innovative if you don't already own Rock 
 Band pick it up you don't know what your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeTheRage
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Well I was a big fan of the Guitar Hero series. I own 2 and 3 and was impressed and didn't think 
 any game could top guitar hero. Well when this came out i was pleasantly surprised. I beat the 
 guitar on expert and then decided i would try the drums. Now these things were pretty difficult 
 to learn at first. But after getting used to them they are, I think, the funnest part of the game. 
 The band world tour is a blast. Me and my friends just the other day beat the endless setlist which 
 is about 58 songs straight no breaks. I say this becuase it shows that this game is addicting and 
 you just can't set it down. Currently I have logged 1263 hours playing Rock Band. Again this is 
 because this game is so addictive and you just can't stop. Also after playing drums on Rock Band 
 I actually joined a band in real life playing drums using what I had learned from Rock Band. Now 
 don't get me wrong this game won't totally teach you drums. But it starts you on your way! it is 
 highly addictive! If you have 170 dollars to purchase this then you must. It is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitar-Dunnie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix breaking away from the Guitar Hero series may seem like a bad thing. But if you know Harmonix, 
 you knew they'd invent something new. And they did... Rock Band.
  
  Rock Band is the most expensive video game you can buy now. Priced at $170 for the Xbox 360 and 
 Playstation 3 versions, and $160 for the Playstation 2 version, this is a great risk you must take, 
 whether or not you should buy it.
  
  Well if you think about it, Rock Band is 3 games in one. You can play Solo Mode with the guitar, 
 the drums, and the microphone. Each instrument has it's own achievements as well, such as "Expert 
 on guitar, expert on drums, expert on singing." 
  
  With the bundle, you actually save money by buying everything together. The price for the game 
 is $60, the guitar is $60, the drums are $70, and the microphone is $50. When added all up, the 
 price is a whopping $240! You should thank Harmonix for the deal!
  
  The game is so innovative too. The drums feel like the real deal. When you play a song on the drums 
 on hard or expert, it feels like you're coming pretty close to playing a real drum set. You'll 
 definitely learn a few beats as well. 
  
  Singing is pretty good as well. And difficult. When you are singing on higher difficulties, it 
 start getting harder to match pitches and sing correctly. 
  
  Guitar is good as well, but not as good as the Guitar Hero games. Hammer-ons are harder to do in 
 the game and the songs will be a lot easier than the Guitar Hero songs.
  
  One of the features of the game is Band World Tour, where you play with up to four people in Career 
 mode. Unfortunately, this is not online. But if you have many friends nearby, this can be quite 
 enjoyable. One person for every instrument.
  
  Another cool thing is that if you have Xbox Live, you can play Band Quickplay and play with up 
 to 3 other players online in a song. 
  
  Overall, this game will amaze you in many ways. Yes it cost a lot, but if you have a lot of friends 
 nearby, or perhaps a sibling who could pay for the game too, you have loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix made us some great rhythm games such as, guitar hero and guitar hero 2, and now they surprised 
 us with rock band, so they focused more on multiplayer to bring two guitars, drums and mic, so 
 how does it work ?, you will find out.
  
  
  Guitar:
  
  
  they changed a few things in this guitar, it's a little taller than GH2 guitar and you can see 
 the image that they placed the color buttons infront of you, so that it will help you see the buttons 
 clearly, and they also aded a guitar effect, so you can only change the effect when a solo comes 
 up, and to tell you the truth, it's one of the coolest features on this guitar, but the only con 
 i got from this guitar is the strum bar, it dosen't make a click sound when you strum it up or 
 down, im not saying it dosen't work when you strum, but when you play the song, it dosen't feel 
 like your playing right, maybe i should get used to it, but in other hands, it's a cool guitar.
 
  
  
  Drums: 
  
  
  this is the eye candy of RB, it's fun to play but it's one hard hardware to play, even if you are 
 playing it on easy it is still hard, it's like playing GH guitar for the first time, but more harder, 
 but it's totally worth it, plus what it make it more cool, is they give you a real wooden sticks, 
 but when you progress more on this game your going to get used to it, but i warn you to be carefull 
 on the base pedal, don't push it too hard or it will break in half, that is the only con i found 
 on the drums, and the cause of this problem, it is made by a cheap plastic, so be carefull, so 
 what make me love this drum is like playing a real drum, infact it is a real drum, so enjoy playing 
 it.
  
  
  Mic: 
  
  
  it's a cool mic with a nice touch, and it's actually work like a karaoke, but the singer will still 
 sing with, and sometimes it's hard to follow the words, but it's a cool mic, so if you are one 
 of the shy type, believe me you will hold the mic and sing.
  
  
  Closing comment:
  
  
  take four people with you and start playing this game, because you will never get bored at 
 it, still your going enjoy it alone, but believe me you will go crazy if you play with your friends, 
 and mark my words on it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigonthewing
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Its simple to play, easy to pick up. Friends come over and you have an absolute blast. Its hard 
 not to say to get this game. Its easily the most enjoyable multiplayer game to date. I honestly 
 can not think of anything better. Sure playing Halo 3 or Cod4 online is fun but when you have 3 
 of your friends in the same room and your all playing off of each other in this game there is nothing 
 else like it. I know its been said a hundred times but yes this is the best party game ever made. 
 Also i can sit by myself and just practice the drums for hours and it never gets boring. 
  
  The best part though is when you put on Dont Fear the Reaper and the person on vocals hits 
 the mic for the cowbell. Yes there is cowbell in the game.
  
  Im giving this game a 10 i think thats the first time I have given a game a 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicknicknick333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I was a little bit wary of the 180 dollar charge, so when I decided to purchase it I was pretty 
 nervous. When I got it home, frustration ensued when I was unable to connect the microphone, lost 
 the instruction manual, I consulted a youtube video and everything was alright. Already a little 
 frustrated with the hardware, I was in a pretty bad mood to start, but once I started it up I couldn't 
 stop. I started playing the drums, and it was such a new, revolutionary concept that I was completely 
 blown away by it. After finishing the tour on easy and beginning it on medium, I decided to give 
 guitar a try, personally a fan of guitar hero. It was good, the solo, low fret buttons are difficult 
 to get a hang of but are a good addition and the big rock finishes are always fun regardless of 
 instrument. I got a little tired of playing alone so I started band world tour with my brother, 
 and it is just as amazing as every other aspect of the game. All in all the game is one of the 
 best multiplayer experiences of all time, if you can't afford it find a rich friend and play with 
 him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfbm
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  My family is huge fans of the guitar hero games in fact we own all of them so I decided to get 
 it for my wife on her ps2. The game was cool and everything but we noticed something that was off 
 on this version. Even though every review mentions a create your own band it was no where to be 
 found. Instead the ps2 is a very stripped down version of the game where they give you the songs 
 you play them and thats it. No real career mode and your band who is playing the songs in the back 
 ground is random people. There is no stores to buy anything, you are just left there thinking.... this 
 is it?!?!
  
  About a month ago we broke down and bought Rock Band for the 360. I have to tell you what a vast 
 difference. It is like playing a totally different game. The game has an awesome create a band 
 mode, a career mode that actually gives you a purpose to play it, and a store that rivals that 
 of guitar hero. The only down side I can see is the drums seem a little less responsive of the 
 360 than the ps2 but other than that it was well worth the second chance. My advice is to keep 
 your money until you can get a next gen system game and don't be swayed but the $10 difference 
 and settle for the ps2 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: primetime0326
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  For some reason i just like guitar hero more. i just dont like the atmosphere that rock band brings. 
 There is to much to set up and its way overpriced. i was bored of playing this aftr a couple of 
 hours and i never playd again it just didnt tickle my 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 hero is alot better in my eyes. I know people wont agree cuz everyone loves rock band but for the 
 price you have to pay for all the goods, the game is not worth it . The thing i hated most was 
 the atmosphere the game didn't have an inviting atmosphere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff2005
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game just did not live up to the hype at all. 
  
  First off the guitar that comes with the game is absolutely horrible. The strum bar is way to loose 
 and half the time never registers the button you are trying to hit. To top it off the difficulty 
 is way to easy on the guitar when you use the guitar hero guitar. All the songs except for the 
 outlaws song are very easy to beat on expert. The expert difficulty is about as difficult as hard 
 on Guitar Hero 3. While you are playing some of the later song like Iron Maiden's Run to the Hills 
 in the Solo you can be strumming perfectly threw it and it won't even play half the notes, plus 
 the hammer ons are terrible. You take the same song into Guitar Hero and hit every note in the 
 solo playing it excatly the same.
  
  The Mic works great and it fun.
  
  Couldn't get into the game very far with the drums they broke after about 5 hours of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The game is flawless, especially when drinking. Anyone can pick up and play this game. You can 
 atleast sing? The graphics aren't great, but it is a puzzle game so it doesn't really matter. When 
 doing world tour, having to play the same game multiple times gets annoying. Also, people want 
 to be able to create their own person, and you have to do that under different profiles and I don't 
 like that. That's an xbox problem. Could have used better options on creating your person instead 
 of focusing on clothes and hair, since you know what's what makes music nowadays. Gameplay wise 
 is what you expect. Problems with the drum pads not recognizing hits and the guitar strum going 
 out are directly related in game, but EA shouldn't have cheaped out. If you have major corporations 
 like EA and MTV backing your game, there shouldn't be crap parts. The song list is good, until 
 you play the ten songs that are worth a damn 20 times. All the indy bands suck that you can unlock. 
 Alot of the music that came with the game is just not good. It's good that there's DLC every week, 
 except 80% of the time that sucks too. But still this is the best drinking game ever, and for what 
 this game does, it does everything right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sectshun8
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:38 pm PT
Review:  It's been awhile since the game came out, and having bought it the night it showed up at Best Buy 
 (spur of luck) , I still haven't found any reason to put it down. Every weekend at my place, my 
 band comes over and we rock out for a few hours. The songs are great and not overly challenging, 
 unless of course you're the drummer. The drums are hard as bejesus to get good at on any difficulty 
 higher than Easy. Oddly enough, our female drummer can pull off song on Hard and is in the 90% 
 on Medium consistently. The game is very addicting and before you know it, it's 5am, haha.
  
  Graphics are exactly what they should be for this type of game. It's unfortunate that the guitar 
 that is packaged with the game doesn't hold up long, after a week mine starting double strumming 
 every note. So I use the wireless GHIII axe.
  
  Great game, BUY IT! It's the best $170 you can spend for endless hours of fun with family and friends! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heeljeff
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 12:57 pm PT
Review:  I never really expected to enjoy a game like RB, or GH for that matter, but RB is indeed a whole 
 lot of fun. It takes some getting used to, whether your're a typical video gamer or not. However 
 after a short intro period you find it hard to pull away. Not only can you try your hand at GH 
 style play, but you get the physical workout of banging away on your drums all day. Of course it's 
 best if you have others to play with... you need at least two for a band, and although you can play 
 online, part of the fun and excitement is playing with people in the same room, enjoying the successes 
 and laughing at the stupendous failures. Give it a try and you just might find yourself with drums 
 and a guitar in your living room. $170 isn't cheap by any means, but the replay value and multiplayer 
 aspect makes up for the extra cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryuusake
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band. You could say it's a rip-off of the Guitar Hero series, and you'd be right. That's pretty 
 much what this is. But Rock Band takes the GH gameplay to a whole new level.
  
  
  Gameplay- The controls are simple. For guitar you hold down the colored button shown on screen 
 and then strum the bar. That's all you gotta do. A little more basic level of difficultly than 
 the GH series. For drums all you gotta go is smack the right colored pad. (or step on the bass 
 pedal for the orange line on screen) Singing is well, singing. Just sing the pitch right and you 
 win.
  
  Graphics- Pretty good. (always better with a HD TV) While your playing your band's movements are 
 pretty believable and they sometimes add some pretty sweet special effects (black and white, etc.) 
 You can also customize your characters whole look from hair to tattoos to shoes. Pretty much everything 
 looks good. Once in awhile you'll find something that just doesn't really fit.
  
  Sound- amazing. The track list is pretty awesome and you can download even more songs from Xbox 
 live. You're gonna find something you'll like in the set list. Even the covers sounds pretty good. 
 xbox comes out with new songs about every week.
  
  Overall- if you don't mind paying $170 for this game, you should get this. Even with a couple flaws, 
 it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingTuell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was great and a little better than Guitar Hero. I dont own it but ive played 
 it at my friends house and i would recommend it 2 anyone that enjoys the Guitar Hero series. The 
 guitar is cooler looking than the GH guitar but the strum is a little delayed. The drums are hard 
 to play but still are very enjoyable. The only reason i think it shouldnt get a 10 is because of 
 the price. I think $170 is way to much moola to pay for this. It should probally only be about 
 $130 - $150. I wouldnt pay that much for it but by the time my birthday comes there will be something 
 better i can get even though its hard to believe anything could be better than Rock Band. 0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necross131
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  This has got to be the best party game out there, especially the best music/ rhythm game. If you've 
 played guitar hero, you can play this. It takes a little to get used to the way the notes are after 
 playing guitar hero, but it gets much easier. Very good ,customization and great idea (although 
 obvious) to allow on line bands. Drums can get a little hard near the end of the set lists, but 
 strangely, makes them all the more fun to play. After you finish the solo tours, you can go on 
 line and play with a band, or one on one and that never gets old. The reason I marked it down half 
 a point, is because I would suggest you use a Guitar Hero guitar, the Rock Band guitar is awkward 
 to strum on, since it is not a click strum bar, it is a sort of flick strum bar. Get this game, 
 you won't be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is great, the guitar game is very similar to guitar hero but the only thing bad thing 
 is that the "star power" is a little harder to trigger during gameplay, the drumming is hard at 
 first but you can get better and yet it is very fun, singing is pretty fun but is a little to easy 
 on some diffliculties, the song selection could be better, there are only 58 songs but you can 
 download songs from xbox live, this game is awesome to play with friends, the band world tour mode 
 is cool, you get to make band with your friends, customize your rocker, nd get fans, the pricetag 
 is steep, but with all the hardware its worth it, plus some people said there were hardware concerns, 
 they're probably just pounding the drums and really messin up the guitar because ive had no problems 
 and ive had it for a week or 2 now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreeBallz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is the greatest game ever for someone that likes music. The Art Design is fantasic and 
 entertaining, the songs are (mostly) classics. Personally, the game is not complete without the 
 downloadable content. I could see Rock Band 2 not coming out for years due to the impressiveness 
 of this game. Once you've been with Rock Band and strummed, drummed, and sang through this game, 
 you will be left saying "Guitar What"? Definitely worth the price. But remember Downloadable  
 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s d d f s d s d s ds s d s d s d d s d s d sd d r r r r r 
 r r o o o c c c c c c c c cc c ck k k k b b b a a a a a aa n n d d d dd d dd dd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unwashable
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 8:11 am PT
Review:  My biggest fear when first learning about Rock Band was that the songs would stray from the guitar 
 focus, and would become repetitive and boring. Well after buying Rock Band I can confirm that is 
 not true in the least. While the beginning songs are pretty easy and the hardest songs aren't terribly 
 difficult, none of them are boring in the least. I would potentially argue that the set list in 
 this game rivals that of the original guitar hero, which in my opinion was the best set list to 
 date. Every guitar hero has those songs that are just a chore to play, yet I find Rock Band lacks 
 these fillers. 
  Just as fun as the guitar are the other instruments. While I am no singer, I have found the drums 
 to be engaging as well as providing a nice change from the guitar. That doesn't even cover the 
 Band World Tour and the multiplayer, which goes above and beyond anything guitar hero offers for 
 multiplayer. Combined with the devotion of Harmonix to consistently provide DLC every week, this 
 game is well worth the price tag and recommended to all guitar hero fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iconic_D
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Whats unique about Rock band is that there are 4 types to play. Being Guitar, bass, Drums, and 
 Mic. This adds to the overall playability. The Gameplay is Guitar Hero esque. As in notes coming 
 across a note board and strumming, hitting, and singing the notes. There is also there very own 
 star power which is called "Overdrive" Since it is a game where you work together, overdrive can 
 also be used to save your bandmates from sucking.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in rock band seem cell shaded, but realistic. The arenas you play your gigs on look 
 nice and shiny, and the effects they add make it even better. The note board doesn't look as great 
 and detailed as Guitar Hero's, but I can live with it. I am not feeling the square notes though.
 
  
  Sound
  The music in the game is great. They have a nice selection of songs form all generations, and styles. 
 (There is also some songs from Guitar Hero) The sound is great too. When you're playing your gigs 
 you have the feeling that you are actually performing on a stage, and who doesnt like going crazy 
 with the drums?
  
  Overall, Rock band is a great game which is aweosme for parties and just yourself. I recommend 
 it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBRM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  To anyone who has played any of Harmonix Music's games, Rock Band trumps into a new category of 
 brilliance, marvelous, and excellence for party games this decade. The large price tag of the game 
 isn't for someone to buy for a few weeks of play, but more for a few months of play. This title 
 is the first thing I pull out when friends are over at my house. Experienced from the Guitar Hero's 
 I and II, Harmonix has cleaned up both the guitar and base instruments, but the drums and microphone 
 is what puts this game into another ranking of awesome party games. I always hear from gamers and 
 musicians that playing the game and the instrument (the guitar specifically) is totally different 
 from each other. "I can't beat a nine year old at the game, but I can really shread the real thing." 
 However, the drums and microphone seem to be more detailed with the actual instrument. With the 
 exception of the high hat, a few tom-toms, and of course more symbols, the drum set is really close 
 to an actual drum set. The microphone is another beast. From most gamers I have either played with 
 or talked to about the mic have different opinions of the instrument. "It's awesome to play on 
 easy because you can have fun, but on the harder difficulties it is incredibly difficult." And 
 from other I hear "It is right on." There is no doubt that the pitch is a hard thing to monitor; 
 the fact is we all haven't been blessed vocally like we all want to, so matching the song's voice 
 and yours is hard.
  Let this not take away from the actual game itself. Rock Band features some great songs ranging 
 anywhere from the 60s Rolling Stones (Gimme Shelter) to today's Red Hot Chili Peppers (Dani California) . 
 The game also has downloaded content that offers different tracks to continue the rock experience. 
 The part that this game shines at is the multiplayer band mode. I have spent hours rocking with 
 friends through the early hours of the morning playing through all the best tracks. You can't appreciate 
 it until you are actually playing with three other people next to you. The game does lack a couple 
 of features that would have really perpelled this to one of the greatest of all time. Rock Band 
 doesn't really deliver a Free Mode. When I say free mode I mean a gameplay feature that would allow 
 players to just interact with the insturment however they please. To make up their own songs and 
 possible record their own tracks. Call me stupid, but if Rock Band puts this in their game it could 
 platform to a new generation of musicians in the United States and worldwide. If you don't plan 
 on having anybody over then Rock Band probably is not a worthwile purchase. But if your like me 
 and rocking is in your blood, then this game is what you have been waiting for. The price tag is 
 well worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkIsMyGod
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  For me, Guitar Hero 2 for the Xbox 360 was incredible. I couldn't get enough of it until I caught 
 wind of Guitar Hero 3, which I then began to eagerly anticipate. I got it the day it came out and 
 at first I really liked it. I played all day on Hard just so I could get to One (the main reason 
 I bought it) . But after a while, the game (I lost) started to lose it's appeal and I slowly stopped 
 playing it. It was around this time I came across Rock Band. At first, I was skeptical. I had heard 
 the guitar was way too easy and the songs aren't that great. I also heard people rave over the 
 drum aspect of the game, so I decided to give that a try. I beat the tour on medium my first day 
 getting it (which was AMAZING) and decided to try out the guitar. I played on expert and breezed 
 through the first few tiers. It was then I realized it wasn't going to be as easy as I thought. 
 Well one day when my school was canceled, I played through the rest of the tour. I finally got 
 to Green Grass and High Tides ,which I knew would be hard because I heard it during the drums tour. 
 To make a long story short, I failed miserably my first time. It actually took me around my 6th 
 or 7th try before I actually beat it. So anyone who says the guitar is too easy, they are sadly 
 mistaken. Also, many people complain of faulty instruments, and yes I did experience this tragedy 
 in the form of my foot pedal breaking in half. So I went to their support website and requested 
 a knew one. It arrived 4 days later, which is pretty impressive on just standard shipping. So overall, 
 Rock Band has some minor set backs (i. e. the $170+ price tag) but this game is incredible. If you 
 are home alone playing the drums tour or if you're rocking out with a friend, Rock Band is sure 
 to offer you hours of endless entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjo513
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game I thought that it would be god awful because of the drumset and 
 the singing, but when I played it... well it pretty much rocked my socks off. Here is my review.
 
  
  The GREAT! : to me the greatness is the multi player season. I don't say this for the sheer enjoyment 
 of sharing music with each other but for the fact that you have to act like a band, play your role 
 and occasionally save each other from a horrible boo-ing fate. The combo system is great which 
 allows you to gain extra points for perfecting a series of notes together and another terrific 
 add in is the end of a lot of the songs which will give you filler time to add major bonus points 
 to your score. Playing solo is also really fun but it's nothing like having a band behind you to 
 really bring out the rocker in you.
  
  The BAD: There is almost nothing wrong with this game, however the guitar parts are not as challenging 
 as guitar hero 3 and for all you GH fans the bass line is repetitive and can get annoying and boring. 
 Also, if you don't play the drums or have a bad feet and hand connection you probably won't get 
 much past medium in the drumming. And while we're on the drumming, there are a few songs (can't 
 say off top of my head) that require the bass drum to do double beats in a fast cut time which 
 to most people is physically impossible and the drums can't pick up 16th notes very well which 
 makes perfection very hard to achieve, but other than that this game is golden.
  
  So overall, if your looking for a game to Rock with friends or rock solo, either way this game 
 is your ticket to glory. There are plenty of songs to download on Xbox live as well so you'l never 
 get bored off of the same old list of songs. Get the game!!!! 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skidudeone27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a revolutionary rhythm game that will change the way future games of this genre are 
 made. The money you spend on Rock Band is worth every penny as you will play this game hours on 
 ends alone or with a group of buddies hanging out. 
  
  The difficulty in this game is just right. Advanced players will sweat it out playing on expert 
 but beginners will have just as much fun on easy.
  
  The song list is very well put together as they feature classic rock but also modern with a mix 
 hidden talent. 
  
  The equipment on the mic and drums is very well designed but the only problem i have with this 
 game is its guitar as it doesnt function properly sometimes and that could get annoying. I have 
 concluded that this problem is with the fret bar.
  
  All in all this game is a great buy and i look forward to future rock band games and see what other 
 additions they can make to an already great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Rock band is cool but thiers some minnor issues like when you press green red yellow blue on the 
 drums It might not work thats one of the issues it stinks sometimes when your are on a roll then 
 you miss the note.
  
  I dont like playing alone cause then its like playing a guitar hero by yourself so the whole point 
 of the game is so you can play with three friends so if you play it alone then its kinda boring 
 I should know I have three brothers and when they dont want to play I play alone I play the drums 
 guitar I sing after a couple of songs but it has to be a awesome song. 
  
  Well also its singing if you ever sing you should know you have to hit the microphone for the cowbell 
 or even just tamborine it stinks cause its metal it dosent hurt but it leaves a lot of red marks 
 my brother thaught I was bleeding out blood hehehe well thats wy report on mic if ur still reading 
 then ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H2Painguin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  There isn't much else on the market that is anywhere similar to Rockband. The only gripes about 
 the game center around the reliability of the controls. Otherwise, however, if you're having a 
 party any time soon this game is a must have.
  
  After playing the game for some time my biggest complaint centers on the guitar. While the addition 
 of different distortion effects is welcomed, it is not enough to get over the fact that using the 
 controller feels significantly different from Guitar Hero 3. Personally, the fact that the guitar 
 doesn't "click" changed the game play to the point where going back and forth between the games 
 is difficult. Similarly, the "strummer" has been known to break. Even so, playing is still extremely 
 enjoyable.
  
  The drums are, without a question, the most welcome addition to the game. There is simply nothing 
 like wailing to the drums to the tune of "Dani California" or trying to keep pace with "Timmy and 
 the Lords of the Underworld." While relatively easy to pick up, you gain a significant amount of 
 respect for someone who actually plays because, by the time you are playing on expert, the drums 
 are insanely involved. Like the guitar, however, there are some reliability issues, especially 
 when you really start laying into the drum set. I've seen several people mod the controller, however, 
 my hope is that Activision come out with a sturdier set in the future.
  
  Finally singing. Singing is definitely a love/hate activity. While some arrogant, and likely horrible 
 sounding, people are willing to put their heart on the line belting out "Maps," ugh, most have 
 a little more modesty about their voices. For this reason, I am thankful that the game allows you 
 to control the output volume of your own voice while keeping the real rocker's voice at large. 
 The best part is that easy is pretty much simple enough for a gorilla to grunt out, but, like drums, 
 when you get to expert the game can be near impossible.
  
  All in all, Rockband is an incredible experience. If you are planning on having a get together 
 with friends anytime soon this is definitely the best game to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yourbeliefs
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  First off, let me start off by saying that this is right now the greatest music game out there. 
 I love Guitar Hero, but this offers quite a bit more bang for your buck in that it is more accessible 
 to more people. If you don't feel like using the guitar you can pick up the drums, and if you just 
 like to sing you can do that as well (although I have not tried that part of the game yet.)
  
  All that said, the game suffers in a few areas. Now this is rather subjective, but I feel that 
 the Guitar Hero 3 tracklist is far superior. There are more songs out of the box and they're just 
 more fun with ones like Cult of Personality, Welcome to the Jungle, Even Flow, Story of My Life, 
 etc. As I was playing through the game a constant thought running through my head was "Man I wish 
 some of the GH3 songs could be played in this."
  
  Now Rock Band has a decent counter to this because it has a LOT of downloadable content, which 
 adds more life to the game and is cheaper to use than it is in GH2 and GH3. It would have been 
 nicer if more of these songs could have been included out of the box, but I'm sure if they waiting 
 on this that the game would not have been released in time for Xmas and wouldn't have come out 
 until the PS2 version did. 
  
  As far as the instruments go, there are a few issues I had. For one, the guitar that comes with 
 Rock Band is very awkward, especially when you're trained and used to the Guitar Hero guitars (especially 
 the GH3 versions.) You can't take it apart, except for the very top of the guitar where the strings 
 would go on a regular guitar, and it doesn't make sense because you can play with or without it. 
 The solo buttons near the bottom of the neck don't have much use unless you're Eddie Van Halen 
 and are used to playing in areas down there. Odds are if you play this with someone else who plays 
 GH you will be fighting over who has to use this guitar.
  
  The drums are nice but take quite a bit of time to get used to. I would suggest getting comfortable 
 with the drums and your positioning before you even hook it up to your 360. I did not do this and 
 ran into issues just getting my timing down because I wasn't comfortable. I also had issues with 
 the drum pedal because I could never get it in QUITE the right position and was constantly moving 
 it around, and it doesn't help that the cord is relatively short so you can't put it to your side 
 or anything. It basically has to go right underneath the drums, and my ankle started to hurt since 
 it had to go at strange ankles.
  
  I know this sounds like I really don't like this game but really it is a great game. I just wanted 
 to fill you in on some issues that I noticed. If you're interested in this game then you should 
 not use what I've said as a reason to NOT get it, but I put this in just so you don't go in thinking 
 that this is going to be the perfect band experience. It is a very good game, especially for a 
 project as ambitious as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfredo_Sauce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  The first thing I'm a say about this game is it's the sh*t. It is a lot of fun. The multi-player 
 scores a 10 out of 10 in my book. Playing with all of your friends and just having a good time 
 is priceless. And having to hear your friends bad singing voice is also priceless. Every instrument 
 is really fun. You figure the singing is probably the least fun of all. But it's my favorite. The 
 singing is to much fun. The drums is really hard but when you get it down it's a tun of fun. The 
 guitar is fun. It's just like Guitar Hero. It as some difference. Instead of the notes being circles, 
 in Rock Band its squares. Another thing is people say this game, the guitar is a lot easier compared 
 to Guitar Hero. I think it's true but some people I know think its harder. Their probably newbs 
 *cough* Johnny *cough*. The World Band Tour is sick. Going around the world with your friends and 
 playing gigs like real bands. Getting a manager, a van than a bus then a private jet. There's tuns 
 of stuff you get while going on this tour. The only thing they missed is the groupies. If your 
 lonely and you want to play with a group of people they have online. You can go online and play 
 songs with other people around the world. It's pretty sweet. Or if you think your the best at either 
 guitar, drums, or singing you can prove your skills and go against someone in a tug of war. It's 
 similar to the face offs in Guitar Hero. Do better in a song than the opponent the meter will go 
 to your side but do bad obviously the meter will go to their side. There is also a solo tour. Here 
 it really isn't like the world band tour. You just play through a list of songs. At the end you 
 unlock a certain something. I'm not going to tell you, you have to find out yourself. There is 
 a lot of downloads you can get from either the Playstation Store or the Xbox live marketplace. 
 These downloads consist of just basic new songs you can download. This game all and all is great. 
 Theres a solo, multi-player, and online and everything is fun. Great game. Just plain and simple 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawl-vs-galaxy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  well i just recently got this jewl and I feel obligated to review this. Well rock band is kinda 
 like gh1,2, or,3 (including rock the 80's) in the guitar department, but the controllers deffrent. thers 
 the vocals wich are second to none in a sence compared to say american idol encore and other karaoke 
 games but that is just my opionion. The cool thing about rock band is the drums. The drumset right 
 out of the box is unique (requires assembally) and when you play em you can just feel that rockster 
 vibe. the only north american drum game that i'am awyear of. the gameplay is fun and addecting like 
 gh1,2,3 and it has a chacter creator wich is one of the reasons i choose this version over the 
 ps2 ver. the graphics look kinda like a mix with mature anamations with a touch of cartoonish style 
 wick is usaully what the other harmonix game's visuals looked like. the sound, well knowing its a 
 rock game you'd expect great sonuds, and rock band delivers wholeheartly. including a bunch of master 
 tracks some cover tracks might ruin it for you, but thats when you do vocals and make it to wear 
 you only hear your voice. overall rock band is a great game for rythem game fand and just about 
 anyone above ages 5 and up all the way to 99 (depending on your skilz) 9.5 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxorigxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  WoW............... This game is amazing, great music game with all my fav songs, and that even make 
 the game better : ) .
  
  I just beaten the game and the only thing I wanted to do is to login to gamespot and write a review 
 and tell all the users about this amazing game.
  The whole ID of the game is amazing, the music pick the gameplay........... and this kind of games 
 dont really need an amazing graphics, but still the graphics were pretty 
 
  
  I dont think I should write more about the game (but I will) cuz this game is not really something 
 I can write about, this game is that kind of games that you need to play them to know what I'm talking 
 about.................. This game is simply a  the people that 
 created the game: P.
  Anyway I hopw this review was  this game you will enjoy every 
 second of it : ) 
  P. S I'm going to beat the game  : )
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklepik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is that kind of game that really needs to be played in order to be enjoyed. Just by simply 
 watching someone else playing on Youtube or other Gamespot videos are just a waste of time if you 
 want to see what it's all about. The game comes with a drum kit, a microphone, a guitar and a couple 
 other things (4:1 USB Port, and Xbox 360 headset-to-mic adapters) .
  
  The gameplay is also similar to that of the Guitar Hero games having been developed by the same 
 people that made GH1, 2, and Encore: Rock the 80s. But the actual gameplay you do is different 
 on a few terms, including the drums. The drum kit is just plain awesome. The gameplay is awesome. 
 The accuracy it has to real drums is awesome. The microphone does all the vocals in the game (unless 
 you wish to use a headset) and is much better than other karaoke games. Just sing in a high pitch 
 and sing in a low pitch. Just keep reading the words and singin' 'em and you should be good. But 
 try not to mumble when a few games have a lot of lyrics (Epic, Dani California) , cause it made 
 me sound stupid so pick up the beat along the way. The guitar works the same way with Guitar Hero 
 but in Rock Band the difficulty is turned down a smidge. Another new feature is the inclusion of 
 knowing how good you're doing in a solo in-game. You can also change the sound of your guitar when 
 you enter a solo or enter Overdrive (basically: Rock Band's type of Starpower) . I personally think 
 that the echo effect has got to be the best. You are also able to use Guitar Hero guitar controllers 
 for Rock Band except it doesn't work the other way, so sorry to Guitar Hero.
  
  Enough with gameplay, let's talk bands. Band World Tour in basic is the career mode for Rock Band 
 when you take your band from a small act in your hometown to the level Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame 
 worth. But your band just needs to have at least two players (eg. Vocalist and Drummer; Lead Guitar 
 and Bass; etc.) all the way up to a full band. And as you play in this 4-man band, a real bond 
 comes between the players. When you work together you have fun and are led to greatness while id 
 your vocalist might not be on good terms with everyone else it can possibly screw everyone else 
 up so find some good friends (or family members) to play with. In Rock Band, you can name your 
 band, create your characters, and work to greatness. It's a whole mess of fun you can't imagine 
 until you play it.
  
  The setlist is also very well-done with some memorable songs that even I didn't even know that 
 I knew. "Blitzkrieg Bop", "Highway Star", and "Wanted Dead or Alive" are just some of the ones 
 you may have already heard just never knew what they were called. Going on, Harmonix plans on releasing 
 downloadable-content (DLC) every week to build your library up o what songs you feel like playing. 
 Some good DLC includes: "Move Along", "Joker and the Thief", and "El Scorcho" but everyone has 
 their own tastes so it's already your choice of what songs to purchase.
  
  So let's wrap up. Rock Band is one of those games that is multi-player based but only really good 
 when you can have real people playing with you. The game is awesome but the only real letdown is 
 the price. If you can yank $169.99 out of your wallet, then I think it's worth it. Now go start 
 saving your pennies or your never gonna get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is gaurenteed to make ou love music and gaming. For those who play guitar hero, you know 
 how addicting rythm games are. This game will take a lot longer to beat than guitar hero on any 
 instrument. So many people say that if you don't have friends to play multiplayer with, than the 
 game isn't nearly as fun. That is a lie! I'm not saying that I have no friends, ihave lots od them. 
 But you will still try to ace every song in the game no matter what. Something amazing about the 
 game is that the drums are perfect, even though the company had nothing to base this new instrument 
 on. I would give this game a perfect ten, but as you as you reach the last few song on expert difficulty 
 the fun just drops. This is because the last few songs are IMPOSSIBLE! After trying "green grass 
 and high tides" for the 400th time I finally beat it on guitar. But after that I couldn't stop 
 playing it over and over again. Even though there was a long list of songs in the game I still 
 felt that I had to buy songs on the X box live market. Despite those last two comments I am totally 
 sure people all over America will enjoy Rock Band for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  The first time i heard about rock band was shortly after the game's announcement and i couldn't 
 wait to get my hand's on it. Well 6 day's ago my dream came true I GOT ROCK BAND!!!!. When i got 
 home i hooked all the stuff up and me and my brother's just started jamming. Then i said WOW THIS 
 GAME IS SWEET. but what make's it so awsome? well for starter's the gameplay, rock band truly stands 
 in gamplay because never before had any developer attempted to make a game that has an entire band 
 but harmonix did it and it's superb simply because it is an entire band not just guitar or singing 
 but the drums, mic, bass, and guitar. The gameplay is seamless but the gamplay isn't the only great 
 part the graphic's are also top of the line. The thing is the graphic's are sharp and very next 
 gen but the game never has any frame rate issue's nine at all. one thing that may put people out 
 about the game is the price and yes it's not a cheap game but it's worth every penny since not 
 only will the band tour mode take around 40 hour's to finish it also has weekly new DLC which promises 
 to keep this game rocking on for a long time to come. so if your in the market for a really awsome 
 game or just wanna scratch that rocking itch rockband will scratch to your heart's content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draconis77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  There have been few games that have held my attention and interest for as long of a period as Rock 
 Band. Just as Harmonix has claimed, Rock Band is not as much of just a game as it is a new platform. 
 Many have claimed that it is really 3 games in one (Guitar Hero, Drum Hero (?) , and Karaoke) and 
 they are correct. It may seem expensive, but it is really a good deal and well worth the pricetag.
 
  
  VISUALS: The graphics are great, especially due to the artistic style of the game. The singer mouth 
 movements are some of the most realistic of any game I've seen. 
  
  SOUND: The setlist is superb, especially considering the ever expanding downloadable content. Harmonix 
 has done a great job with the sounds associated with performing in concert. I especially like it 
 when the crowd begins singing along with you.
  
  GAMEPLAY: It is hard to think of anything that is as much fun as playing Rock Band with a group 
 of people. Forget karaoke bars.. Rock Band bars will be the new standard. The guitar and drums 
 are loads of fun. The bass is as expected a bit easier, but it is still a lot of fun and a vital 
 part to a successful band experience. The only complaint I have is that singing on expert is somewhat 
 robotic (thus I sing primarily on hard so I can sing the song as it is intended to sound) .
  
  CONCLUSION: I can't imagine any musically inclined person playing this game and not loving 
 it. As I said, one of the best games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is very good but it has its flaws. First of all the graphics aren't very good. I don't 
 know if its just me but sometimes when I'm playing guitar, I obviously hit a note but it says I 
 missed it. I don't know if its just me. Also, I don't really like alot of the songs in the game. 
 I think the Guitar Hero III songs are better but thats just me. However, if you have friends over, 
 Rock Band is the game to play. Rock Band is very fun playing with your friends, but not really 
 fun by yourself. I don't really understand the story mode. It seems like the story mode goes on 
 forever and doesn't end. It's cool how you can create your own rocker and customize him/her. However, 
 the choices are limited. The best part of Rock Band is the big rock finish. At this part, you can 
 go crazy and play whatever you want. Theres a catch obviously. You have to hit ALL of the notes 
 after the big rock finish otherwise all of the points you accumulated during the big rock finish 
 won't count towards your score. You would have wasted all that effort so make sure you hit all 
 the notes. Overall, Rock Band is good and rivals Guitar Hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit uneasy about this game when I first heard of it. I thought it was a great idea, but 
 that it wouldnt perform as good as guitar hero and would just be an over-priced game. Turns out 
 I was wrong, and this is the best local multiplayer game ever invented.
  
  The World Band Tour mode is extremely addictive and customizing your own band member is extremely 
 fun. Also, creating a band name, quote, and symbol adds to the customizabillity of the game. But, 
 if your just sitting down to play quickplay, your in for hours of fun too. It is a very universal 
 game. It also has some great songs to choose from.
  
  The online I haven't tried but seems like a great addition to the game and has promise to keep 
 the multiplayer experience going.
  
  Their are problems though, but they are few and not applicable to everyone. The drums and vocals 
 are the hardest part of the game and even on easy can only be done by some people. They seem to 
 be harder to learn than the guitar but, thats nothing really horrible.
  
  I give few games 10's, because most games can't deliver a fun experience for a long period of time. 
 But Rockband can, even more so then Guitar Hero. So if your a fan of music games and you loved 
 guitar hero, have a bunch of friends who like music games too, the money is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkner_ram77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  If you've ever wanted to play in a band of your own, but you realized that you have no idea to 
 play an instument other than the trumpet which you learned in 6th grade, then Rock Band is the 
 PERFECT game for you. 
  Rock Band allows you to play the Guitar, Drums, or even the Vocals. The Guitar is very similar 
 to Guitar Hero, actually it's the same thing, so if you've played that game before than the guitar 
 parts should be no problem for you. As far as the drums go, they are rather difficult to get a 
 handle on. In fact, I'm still trying out most songs on easy and still having a tough time on them. 
 I really love the idea though, and anyone with just a little bit of school could easily become 
 a beast with a little practice. Same goes with the vocals. On easy mode it's a breeze, but with 
 increased difficulty settings, you need to learn how to change your pitch to match with the song. 
 
  All in all, Rock Band blows Guitar Hero out of the water thanks to the addition of 2 new band roles 
 you can play as. There is even a large amount of customizable clothing options you can choose from, 
 and you can make a character instead of having to choose from a pre set list. Also, with all of 
 the Downloadable Content and extensive song list already included in the game itself, there is 
 something out there for everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthcanucks
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is very expensive but is worth its money. The drums are probably the funnest but have 
 a really annoying foot pedal that may get a lot of people mixed up which can ruin the game a bit. 
 Singing is pretty fun, kinda just like another sing star game. Guitar is pretty cool but has its 
 down sides. It isn't compatible with Guitar Hero. It also has a strum bar that is huge and is also 
 very annoying. The look of it is way more realistic compared to guitar hero guitars. And the new 
 5 pedals up top and five down low is pretty sweet. Now the game Rock Band. It is really fun for 
 like a month and then gets a bit boring. It is way easier than Guitar Hero and has way way way 
 less songs than GH3. This game is fun at parties and stuff like that but you get kind of bored after 
 a while. I would recommend getting this game, but only if you are either rich, or you wanna have 
 a good time for like a month. But just to let you know, that first month is so amazingly fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:51 am PT
Review:  Harmonix ditched the Guitar Hero series in order to create Rock Band. At first, I wished that they 
 had kept to the original Guitar Hero IP, but all I can say now is that I'm glad they came up with 
 this gem. Rock Band is simply the most fully featured rhythm game to date.
  
  STORY - No, I'm not going to try to tell you that Rock Band has a plot, but it does have a certain 
 illusion the game is trying to give you, that being making you feel like a rock star. And the game 
 does quite a good job at that, especially through the game's Band World Tour mode where you'll 
 be playing charity events, multiple-song "concerts", battle of the bands, etc. On top of that, 
 the fact that you can customize your band's appearance is cool too, since you can give your band 
 a theme (goth, metal, classic rock, etc.)
  GAMEPLAY - Of course, the main draw of Rock Band is the fact that you can rock out on a "bass", 
 "guitar", "drums", and mic.
  The guitar and bass play just like they do in Guitar Hero. The key difference here is that a good 
 portion of the songs are fairly easy, though I'd say half are just as difficult as regular Guitar 
 Hero songs. Everything is the exact same, including Star Power, now dubbed Overdrive. One new little 
 addition is the ability to earn extra points if you do well while soloing.
  The singing is done very well. It plays out just like you'd expect a normal karaoke game to, except 
 the songs in Rock Band are actually good, and that you'd actually want to sing, so thats a plus. 
 You can activate your Overdrive by singing (or yelling) into the mic. While it's potentially the 
 most embarrassing of the 4 instruments, there's definitely a good amount of fun in singing some 
 of the classics featured in this game.
  The drumming in this game is also a whole lot of fun, and is easily the toughest instrument to 
 master (unless you have a horrible voice) . Everything is as fast and frantic as it is when you 
 actually drum, and the drums are the more realistic of the two instrument peripherals.
  You can do a solo tour using the guitar, mic, and drums, but oddly, there's no bass solo tour. 
 The solo tour works a lot like that of Guitar Hero, in that you advance to new song tiers based 
 on difficulty, and in the process earning money to customize your character.
  You can also to matchmaking modes like Score Duel, in which you compete against another player 
 with the instrument of your choice to accumulate the highest score, Tug Of War, which is very similar 
 to score duel, except it's more about temporarily winning favor by rocking out than your long-term 
 score. You can also do a pick-up band of sorts online, where you can play a few tracks with 3 other 
 "musicians".
  But, the Band World Tour mode is really where this game shines. If you get another buddy or three 
 over at your place, you can make a band (complete with the name, theme, and hometown of your choice) 
 and take on different gigs that will net you fans. These gigs can be anything from single songs, 
 to song setlists, to battle of the bands, charity events, etc. etc. One great thing about Band 
 World Tour is it will take a long time to finish, and somehow, is always entertaining, even if 
 you might play some songs a few too many times.
  Rock Band offers up both the most complete selection of methods of play, and the most complete 
 selection of game modes of any rhythm game to date.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics in Rock Band are surprisingly good (if you ever have time to take your 
 eyes off of the oncoming notes and realize the game's beauty.) The art style for the character 
 models is great, and the customizable animations are also really cool and fitting for your band 
 or musician's theme. The lighting and effects are also pretty amazing, as the camera will show 
 your performance sort of like a music video. The graphics are a bit basic, but are awesome none-the-less.
 
  SOUND - Of course, Rock Band has a killer soundtrack that's probably my favorite of all of the 
 rhythm games I've played. The game features classic songs like "Gimme Shelter" to new songs that 
 are (arguably) just as good, like "Welcome Home". Other than just a couple bad songs, the track 
 selection is great. I don't know what else to say about the sound department beyond that, the music 
 is really all that's worth caring about, and Rock Band definitely delivers on that.
  
  VALUE - Assuming you get all of the instruments (or possibly even if you don't) Rock Band will 
 last you quite a while. The solo tours can take you a couple hours to complete, and you'll probably 
 want to try to play them again with increased difficulty. The online multiplayer is also entertaining 
 for quite a while. But, of course, Band World Tour can hold your attention for a long, long time, 
 and will entertain your friends for the length of time that they're at your place for sure. All 
 that plus the fact that 3 new songs are released every week pretty much guarantees that Rock Band 
 will be spinning in your Xbox 360 for along time to come.
  
  TILT - Rock Band is the best rhythm game you could possibly pick up. The four different play styles 
 plus the many game modes are all great and will entertain you for a long time, and the song selection, 
 and graphics are great on top of that. But, there are a few negatives, including the fact that 
 there's no solo tour for the bass, a couple of the songs aren't too great, and the graphics engine 
 is pretty basic (though they do look good.) But, it's really easy to forgive all of Rock Band's 
 faults because of how much effort was put into this game, and how much time you can put into it, 
 having fun all the while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band was developed by EA and Harmonix (Harmonix worked on Guitar Hero I & II/Rocks the 80s) . 
 As a result of this collaboration, one of the greatest multiplayer games of all time was developed. 
 The "Special Edition" comes with a drum set, a microphone, and a guitar, so you can get started 
 right out of the box. My only gripe with the hardware is that the guitar feels pretty cheap, like 
 it's about to break if you touch it. Moving along, the interface is pretty straight to the point 
 and easy to navigate through. The single player mode is very similar to that of Guitar Hero's, 
 with tiers of more difficult songs for each instrument. These aren't just songs that you've never 
 heard, though. The song list ranges from Weezer to Boston. You can also buy more songs off of the 
 Xbox Live Marketplace, so you'll never get bored, as new songs are added each week to the Marketplace. 
 As an added bonus, you can customize your character, from the name all the way down to what shoes 
 they wear, with some wacky options for hair from the mohawk to even being bald. The single player 
 mode in Rock Band is excellent, but what really stands out in this game are the multiplayer modes. 
 You can choose to have a band of you and up to 3 of your friends (Lead Guitar, Bass Guitar, Drums, 
 and Vocals) , and it takes multiplayer to a whole new level. You can all be collaborating to finish 
 songs, and save your friends if they fail. You can also play in a new mode, Tug of War, which is 
 similar to Guitar Hero's battle, which you can play over Xbox Live. All in all, if you want to 
 play a game with your friends and you've got $170 to spare, Rock Band is definitely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band does it with not just one thing like Guitar Hero but with multiple things like drums 
 and a microphone. Harmonix outdid themselves with this game by simulating an actual rock band, 
 hence its name: Rock Band. It's both fun and exciting and in some ways better than Guitar Hero 
 for several reasons. Drumming, singing and on this console, and tons of song packs and individual 
 songs to download from originals to covers, the Marketplace has them all and come up with new songs 
 every tuesday. This version is the best one to get because of those reasons and character customization 
 as well. This game basically has the same character models as what was seen in the first Guitar 
 Hero so if you were to look at that game and this one, they look practically the same since its 
 publisher is MTV Games and developer being Harmonix. In Tour mode, there's are countries you play 
 in like Stockholm, LA, Tokyo, it goes on. Reasons to get this game and not the PS2. The PS2 Rock 
 Band doesn't have band world tour and no character customization of any kind, so you'll have to 
 play with all the default characters. A problem with Rock Band involves hardware issues since some 
 packs come with either faulty equipment or something on the wrong console. Example: an Xbox 360 
 pack with PS2 drums and a PS3 game. (Mine didn't come with that thank goodness) Mine has a guitar 
 that only works sometimes. Other than that, Rock Band is a great music game that redefines rock 
 music games and hopefully, they have a Rock Band 2 since this game was pretty successful . I liked 
 how it looks like a music video with the special effects and camera work. It made the game cool. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauricio_gun
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  nothing that i was expecting from a game with this name, an horrible set list, and a horrible sensation 
 of playing, as a professional drummer i could not feel the sensation of playing my drums, it was 
 completely different, i had no hi-hat, no cymbals, i could play perfectly a song but i did not 
 know anything that i was doing, the guitar is the same thing of guitar hero, just play the notes 
 at the correct time, and if you start to speak, not to sing, but just speak the song is the same 
 thing that sing, it's completely useless.
  The on line option have a terrible and the lowest connection that i have ever seen, all i saw was 
 mistakes from both parts and that all was incorrect, proving that this game is the stupidest version 
 of guitar hero that will ever exist
  The creators of this game just need more time to make the idea of rock band go through for the 
 next generation of games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItsmeChez
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Fun, little pricey but worth it. The drums take awhile to adjust to, but lots of fun. Really this 
 game is great but it needs more "modern" songs in the game/marketplace. Drums on easy is a little 
 too hard. Really it's only fun w/ friends so go call your friends to get the party started! It's 
 better then, but more expensive then GH3. You can use 2 guitars, drums, and a microphone. So you'll 
 need 2 players w/ GH experience. A good drummer or somebody good w/ drums, and a good singer! I 
 still have to use charaters up so hmm I think harmonix's only downfall, is some of the parts break 
 down easily (but thats just natural) and the drums may not pick up everything depending on where 
 you hit it. I would recommend trying this game out but try not to get frustrated while playing 
 because it will probaley happen to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lost_But_Found
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  At first I was worried about the price when it first came out, but I decided to buy it anyway the 
 first day. I was so happy with my purchase! I love playing Guitar Hero games and so I began playing 
 with the guitar when I got RB. It was somewhat of a challenge (I breezed through it on expert pretty 
 quickly because most of the songs are easier than the GH3 challenge *cough* Devil Went Down to 
 Georgia *cough*) but it still has a lot of kicks. Then I moved onto the drums and when I got tired 
 of that I would switch to the singing. So if you get tired from drumming on Hard/Expert and just 
 want to rest, RB gives you the opportunity to use your vocals or lay back and play the guitar. 
 Also, I am not sure if this is true or not, but in my recent game magazine the rumor is that the 
 Band World Tour mode, the one that lets you rock out with your friends for fans, is going to go 
 online (hopefully this will happen in the spring) ! But anyway if you are looking for a game to 
 rock out on, on all different instruments then Rock Band is the game for you! Personalize your 
 character to your likings and try to make them the best "virtual" of all time!
  
  Oh and then you can have your friends over and jam out with them (online and off-line) and become 
 the best "virtual" band of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 15, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  There are many music games competing for your money. Some rock; some don't. How can you tell them 
 apart? Because a title is called Rock Band doesn't mean that it's the most rocking experience ever, 
 right? But when it's developed by Guitar Hero creator Harmonix, the game has to be a genre defining 
 experience of brilliant quality which is exactly what they did with their "dream title" Rock Band 
 for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, and Wii.
  
  This time Harmonix returns to the arena with both a guitar (both bass and lead) and its microphone. 
 While those have both appeared in previous Harmonix titles (Guitar Hero and Karaoke Revolution 
 respectively) , Harmonix also introduces drums to the arsenal so that everyone can live out their 
 inner rock star using whatever instruments suits them best.
  
  The game is a blast to play using all of the instruments. The drums are challenging and feel good 
 to use. Singing through the microphone (you can use the 360 headset's microphone if you're a cheapskate) 
 is a lot more challenging than you'd guess and can even be more fun to use on some of the songs 
 than the other instruments. Playing the guitar and bass with a new, enhanced Guitar Hero-ish guitar 
 always guarantees a good time but the "hard" difficulties are too easy. The early songs on the 
 expert difficulty are comparable to medium difficulty note patterns that are scrolling across the 
 screen extremely quickly. It's too bad that the difficulty is lowered for the "casual" audience 
 but how long will it be before they start five starring every expert song, too? I believe that 
 expert is for the expert players; not for newbies. While you don't have a great sense of challenge 
 besides the solos, you'll definitely have a great time playing guitar but don't expect expert to 
 be even nearly as hard as ---Guitar Hero on hard.
  
  The game's title emphasizes that this is meant to be played multiplayer as a band. As a result, 
 RB's solo career mode isn't nearly as awesome as the multiplayer co-op mode Band World Tour. In 
 solo mode, you'll likely be bored to death by the note patterns sometimes and you'll be thinking 
 that this is a poor Guitar Hero rip-off. Once you beat the career mode, take the game's advice 
 and start a band in World Tour Mode. Unlike an almost linear progression, you'll be able to pick 
 from dozens of gigs at a time to play at and then travel the continent and eventually the world 
 with the buses and airplanes you can win. Band World Tour is almost endless; the game keeps throwing 
 new locations and songs at you. The mode is also made significantly longer by downloadable content 
 via Xbox Live. What I found intriguing were the mystery set lists and create a setlist features 
 at most locations. When I found out that the next song I was going to play was "Enter Sandman" 
 by Metallica, I was overjoyed but felt a great sense of worry. In Band World Tour Mode, you gain 
 stars and fans after every song you play well. The penalty for losing is that you lose a substantial 
 amount of fans which can make you go from rags to riches and back again. The way you play together 
 as a band, the "OMG!" mystery setlists, and major failure penalty brings a new thing not felt in 
 Harmonix's previous efforts. It just results it a lot of pure awesomeness that you're bound to 
 enjoy.
  
  The music is pretty good. While it's not as great as the Guitar Hero titles, there are some must 
 listen to songs including a few sleeper hits. "Run to the Hills" by Iron Maiden, "Enter Sandman" 
 by Metallica, and "In Bloom" by Nirvana is just a few out of many. The game could use a few more 
 awesome songs but DLC fortunately makes up for that.
  
  Rock Band revolutionizes the music genre. While the guitar and bass difficulty level and the solo 
 career are slightly flawed, Band World Tour Mode is so good that it makes up for all of that. Plus, 
 you get to go to rockband. com for band classifieds and to show off the character that you created 
 using the excellent character creation system. This is one Rock Band that you'd have to be crazy 
 not to join. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewmerritt
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm that guy that was hanging out at Best Buy playing the Rock Band demo drum kit every chance 
 I could get. The problem was, by the time Christmas rolled around, every demo version in my home 
 town had been destroyed in some way. That says two things about the game itself: #1 It's incredibly 
 accessible and addictive. #2 There have been some durability issues with the equipment.
  
  I've had the game since Christmas, and I'm on my second guitar and my second drum foot pedal. The 
 guitar strum bar stopped registering, and the plastic foot pedal eventually just snapped. I've 
 seen several complaints by players who have had to deal with even more returns than I have, but 
 I truly think that the equipment problems are becoming fewer and farther between. And the return 
 policy can't be beat. You make a claim, they put a temporary hold on your credit card (they don't 
 charge you) , they ship you a replacement component, you return the broken component in the same 
 box with pre-paid shipping. It doesn't get any easier.
  
  So, since the equipment issues are overcome easily enough, let's talk about the gameplay. I'm on 
 the XBOX 360 version, and everyone that I invite over to play this game is utterly amazed at the 
 detail of the game and immediately addicted (to the point where I've had trouble getting them to 
 leave my house) . As has been written time and time again, the heart of this game is in the multiplayer 
 modes. The solo tours are fun, and they're incredibly important for unlocking bonus songs and learning 
 your instrument of choice. However, you're not going to sit there and play by yourself indefinitely. 
 Get some friends over and play as a band in the World Tour mode, and you'll find yourself pushing 
 the limits of your musical abilities in no time.
  
  The things I love most about this game - 
  
  I'm learning how to play real drum patterns, even 
 though some of the pads pull double duty (toms and cymbals are often simulated by the same pad) . 
 The original list of 58 songs is pretty incredible. Sure, there are some songs that I had never 
 heard of, but there are also some epic tunes from the past 5 decades. Frequent downloadable content 
 makes for an ever-expanding challenge, and the game is accessible for players with a wide range 
 of musical abilities.
  
  The not so great things about Rock Band - 
  
  Harmonix has been releasing 3 songs per week for download, which sounds great. Unfortunately, out 
 of the 40-plus songs available for download at this point, I've only downloaded 10 of them. Harmonix 
 has released some real crap, especially in late January and early February. The songs cost $2.00 
 a piece, so I'm not downloading everything they put out. I hope it gets better soon.
  
  The biggest beef that I have with the game is the fan cap in the World Tour Mode. I was OK when 
 I realized that our band couldn't progress past 260,000 fans on Medium difficulty. After all, Medium 
 difficulty is the default starting point, so I understand the motivation to move up to Hard and 
 Expert eventually. However, when I realized that the fan cap on Hard difficulty was only 600,000 
 fans, I was a bit distraught. Finding a drummer and a lead guitarist who can play more than a few 
 songs on Expert at the same time is quite a challenge. I think a full band playing on Hard difficulty 
 should be able to attract a few million fans, but the developers never asked me my opinion.
  
  Overall, this game is incredible. They overmarketed and underdistributed to get things started 
 this past holiday season, but I'm really very impressed with how they've handled the huge demand, 
 the equipment returns, and the frequent DLC. Great game, great support - worth every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gandalfthekool
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  If you love Guitar Hero, you will surely love Rock Band. For the first time ever, you will be able 
 to experience not only guitar slashing greatness, but rock out drum beats, a bass line and vocals. 
 The guitar style is very similar to Guitar Hero but adds on with different pickup features. It 
 is generally easier on the expert difficulty but has its challenging moments along the way. The 
 drums are a challenge but do a great job simulating what playing the drums is actually like. The 
 vocals are a great addition for your party needs. Anyone can be the famous lead singer they aspire 
 to be. The track list offers something for everyone and the online play is a fun add-on. Even if 
 you don't have XBOX Live, you should still pick up this game. It also serves as a great break from 
 all the first-person shooter hype and will spice up your gaming experience a little bit. If you're 
 into achievements, this game has very reasonable yet many challenging ones to obtain. Rock Band 
 has something to fulfill everyone's needs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranman1990
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 10/ One of the best looking games of its kind. Smooth 60 second frame rate , lots of 
 customizations in your characters look , personality , and type of music they listen to gives you 
 different styles of clothing to wear. The in-game HUD is very easy to follow the singer has there 
 lyrics on the top of the screen while the guitar / bass is on the left and right sides and the 
 drums in the middle. While playing others get to enjoy watching the characters bond with each other 
 and really get into the music ( if you're playing good anyways) . The lighting is very important 
 in this game and it shows as all the strobes and lazers and all other kinds of lighting effects 
 are extreamly well done for this game. 
  
  Sound:8/ As for my expierence playing this game the music was not really well known music. I don't 
 believe anyone could tell me off the top of their heads what the beat to Orange Crush from R. E. M 
 is. Most of the songs in game are from their original artists. I would believe that maybe if a 
 sequal were to come out they will have better material to work on. Aside from the choice of songs 
 they used , it still serves up for a lot of fun and enjoyment with friends. Being able to pick 
 your song choice and making lists can be fun at the beginning ,but as you advance it becomes repeatative 
 and redoing songs like The Who'sWho are you" really starts to annoy the performers ( because 
 its not like anyone has heard that song 4 million times before *cough cough C. S. I cough cough**) . 
 
  
  Control:7/ For the quality of the guitar and drums + microphone you get some solid things to work 
 with. Your only problem would to be getting used to the new guitar , it has the six main fret buttons 
 in the neck ( the buttons are popped out like guitar heros') and then another set of 6 frets down 
 below for shredding some solos out when indicated in the game. The drums are really the funnest 
 intrument to play in the game . Harder difficulties could aggravate someone who doesn't know how 
 to really play the drums. If you have someone with a heavy foot be aware as the cord contecting 
 the bass pedal to the above pads could come loose and come off. the microphone can be a little 
 sensitive at sometimes. You dont have to sing the lyrics you can even make up your own words or 
 just hum it if you arent the best of singers. 
  
  Gameplay:10/ Probably the most fun a party game could get . I believe that after playing Rock Band 
 people see GH a little less entertaining as RB brings EVERYONE to the stage and makes everyone 
 feel like a team and a real band. Online play lets you play competitively with other bands out 
 there. 
  The pure enjoyment of this game is flawless. Redoctane made a solid game and it delivers its expectations. 
 
  
  Conclusion:9.5/ This game will continue to be played. Everytime i get a chance to play it with 
 people i do and we play for along time. A game that can bring you and your friends together and 
 not get mad at each other is a one in a million kinda game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hschaf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  - Great multiplayer that almost anyone can enjoy
  - Diverse solo game will keep you playing for a long time
  - Solo play online is a lot of fun 
 and can get fairly competitive
  - Good soundtrack with many downloadable options
  
  Cons:
  - Multiplayer online play is very simple, could use some work
  - The guitar is somewhat 
 "flimsy" and feels like it could break easily
  - Price tag is pretty steep 
  
  Overall Rock Band is a must have (so long as you can afford it) . Its a great game to play with 
 friends or by yourself. The basically infinite song list (infinite becase of downloadable content) 
 combined with the fact that there are three different instruments you can play, will keep you interested 
 in this game for a very long time. Another great thing about this game is that you can use GH3's 
 guitar for it (which is great because the one that comes with Rock Band is kind of weak) . The only 
 thing that I found that could use some work is the multiplayer online play. You can only play a 
 song with other people, you compete or play different gigs (such as in the local multiplayer) . 
 This is a great party game and is a lot of fun to play solo too, a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a game that will be remembered. More accurately, Rock Band doesn't appear as if it's 
 going away anytime soon. Developer Harmonix huge rock n' roll simulation has finally come out, 
 and what a game it truly is. Anyone familiar with the Guitar Hero will know what to expect from 
 this game, as they are undeniably alike in design (Harmonix is the former co-developer of the Guitar 
 Hero series) but the game's hefty $170 plus price tag and rather unimpressive number of songs in 
 comparison to that of Guitar Hero 3 may put people off, and that is certainly a shame. This is 
 because Rock Band's value can't be explained with just the features included in the box or the 
 game. Indeed, there is already a lot included. Rock Band gives you the opportunity to play guitar 
 or bass, sing, and play drums and includes a special peripheral to perform each task. Despite some 
 concerns about the guitar, the hardware is well designed and responds well (a warranty is included 
 in the box if any troubles are encountered) . In the game, you have the opportunity to play songs 
 from a myriad of genres and decades, from alternative to southern, from the 60s to the 00s. You 
 can play these songs solo on any of the four instruments or get together with up to three other 
 friends and play as a band. This is where the game truly shines, as the multiplayer "Band World 
 Tour" is the most enjoyable aspect of the game, chronicling you and your band's rise and fall to 
 stardom. It is truly a lengthy and deep mode in which you'll be setting up set lists, travelling 
 the world, and upgrading your rockers with swag and equipment to look the part. Online is also 
 available for band quickplay and competitive play
  
  But the true experience of Rock Band comes with what happens when one is in a room with others 
 playing the game. The way the band rises and falls with the performance of everyone. You feed off 
 one another, sing along with the lead singer, even perform stage moves just in an effort to get 
 more and more into the antics being displayed and get the band rallied into a kick ass performance. 
 None of these words can do the feeling justice, and overall the game just needs to be played to 
 be appreciated.
  
  Rounding out the game would have to be visuals and sound. Sound... is self explanatory. It's the 
 music! It's the roar of the crowd and the bangin' of drums! The songs are all awesomely reproduced 
 by either the master tracks of their respective artists, or well-rendered by cover artists (granted, 
 there are a few sour notes among the cover bands) . As for visuals, the game takes on a very stylized 
 art style that looks very very clean, and the stages and arenas all brim with nice atmosphere. 
 The motion capture and on-stage antics all look wonderful, but tend to repeat themselves, or not 
 flow together well. But overall, the visuals are just really fun to watch.
  
  Rock Band... I'll give a 9.0 for being a great video gaming EXPERIENCE above all else. Stellar 
 sound and control with fun visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILLSYOU123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  While Not as fast paced as guitar hero when i comes to solo Rock Band still gives a detailed experience 
 that you gotta love. like Designing your own Character and playing on real venues and if you get 
 bored have your friends jump in for a four Player Co-op Online and Offline! While some songs are 
 not as hard as GHIII theres a Great Selection of Songs such as "Don't) Fear The Reaper" or newer 
 ones such as "Enter The Sandman" if you want a fun experience at a party or just hangin out definitly 
 worth The 180$ that you'll spend on this Wannabe Rock star experience but some songs I would have 
 liked in the game would have been "Spanish Castle Magic" by JImi Hendrix or the ever classic "Come 
 Sail away" by Styx but songs i would love to take out would be "I Think I'm Paranoid" and replace 
 it with "Eruption" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is really unique in the sense that it has to have one of the best multiplayer on a console. 
 The elements of Guitar Hero are identical to almost everything with the guitar and bass but the 
 drum and singing stand out. The drumming can be a lot harder than you think. Especially on the 
 harder modes. Singing can be a bit tricky but once you find the tone of the singer you can pretty 
 much hum the rest of the song. Online is seamless and great fun. The single player is dumb version 
 of GH but whop cares. Audio is great and songs vary from 60's to now. The amount of songs available 
 on XBL is fast growing so thats a plus. The game looks cartoony and thats ok. This game doesnt 
 have the sharpest visuals but im sure that not what they set out to do. It get the job done and 
 that it. This game is a real sell to those who play games a lot with family or friends. If not, 
 then save yourself of the $170 price tag and go with GH3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uberpwner93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Welcome the the pinnacle of rhythm games, the granddaddy of them all, Rock Band. If you haven't 
 been hiding under a rock for about 5 months, you have an idea of what Rock Band is all about. Packed 
 in with the game are a microphone, a Fender Stratocaster replica guitar, and a drum kit. Everything 
 you need to make you a household rock star.
  
  In the band world tour mode, you can get 2-4 of you friends together and put together a virtual 
 band. You start out in small club and have 0 fans, but as you progress through the sets you unlock 
 new gear, more fans, and of course, more songs. If you don't have friends to rock out with, there 
 is a solo mode, although it is not as fun as playing with you friends, it's still pretty fun.
 
  
  The highlight of the game would have to be the online play. Even though you don't have the people 
 around you like a real band, the band experience is still there. There is Band Quickplay, Tug-O-War, 
 and Score Duel. TOG is kinda like face off from Guitar Hero, and SD is kinda like pro face off 
 from Guitar Hero. 
  
  It also makes perfectly good sense that it plays like Guitar Hero, considering who made it, with 
 the only new things being the mic and the drums. All though it is a little pricey ($170.00) it 
 is still a great rock star experience. 
  
  Rock On!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlberube
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  This game has to be the ultimate alter ego machine. I've played many titles over the last 20+ years 
 but none has transfixed me like Rock Band. I only wished they had come out with it 30 years ago. 
 No matter, I get to relive my teenage music memories but not as a passive listener but an actual 
 participant. What can be greater than that? Another thing I noticed is that I no longer listen 
 to music in the same way. I find myself analysing each song for guitar, drums and vocals and how 
 it would look in Rock Band. Now that's immersion.
  
  I got my son, my wife and anyone I can get my hands on to join in and make Rock Band history :-) 
 
  
  Now, should I sell my other titles and buy Microsoft Points to download every DLC that gets posted? 
 It sure is tempting....
  
  Now, if you needed a reason to go out and buy Rock Band, wait no longer.
  
  Rock on.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag3ntz3rox0x
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  I do not own this game and i am glad i do not, i am a proud owner of the gh series. lets start 
 by saying i thought this game had potential to be great, that theory went out the door the first 
 time i played it. first off the guitar itself is horrible, the fret buttons are like late or something. 
 maybe because im used to gh. but the songs suck. ill give it to rock band, they have better downloadable 
 songs then gh. the only thing i kinda liked was the drums, there fun for a bit. until one of the 
 colors breaks and then you cant play. this game is just a piece of junk selling for 160$. the concept 
 of having all the pieces of a band was a great CONCEPT. but MTV games could not pull it off. i 
 am very dissapointed with this game. oh yah and my friends have it and i played it alot until it 
 broke, but it was just to pass time. this game is garbage, plain and simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  rock band was one of the most anticipated games of 2007 with good reason. with the success of guitar 
 hero, harmonix realized that guitar wasn't enough. rock band was born. complete with drums, a microphone 
 and a guitar, this game will have you satisfied for years to come.
  
  the tracklist is absolutely amazing. they managed to get so many great artists in one game it is 
 absolutely astounding. you thought guitar hero III was good. wait until you see this. songs from 
 ballroom blitz to wont get fooled again to timmy and the lords of the underworld. suffraggette 
 city, tom sawyer, enter sandman, the list just keeps on going. the tracklist does not have many 
 songs on it i think 58, but the downloadable content is massive. they already have a big selection 
 of great songs, with lots more to come. 
  
  the multiplayer is the best part of this game. finally you can play with people instead of playing 
 beside them as the great alex navarro used to say. when you get four people coming together playing 
 these songs, the result is magical. although most of the instruments are obsolete compared to the 
 drums and most of your friends will be fighting to play the drums, it is fun to play every instrument. 
 ign said that rock band was easier on guitar than the guitar hero series. yes and no. some songs 
 will be easy as hell. but then long time comes and green grass and you will be stumped.
  
  this game is the third best game of 2007 and a must buy even with the hefty price tag. BUY THIS 
 GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Well well well... finally a better version of guitar hero. I mean I got guitar hero 2 & 3 but rock 
 band just took guitar hero out of plans. This game isnt for anyone especially for people that dont 
 have room in there house or that dont want to spend $180 on a more advanced guitar hero. Now the 
 drums and the microphone are harder then you think and if you dont want to learn to sing or drum 
 just get guitar hero. Besides guitar hero is harder then the guitar mode in rock band. But! if you 
 have wild friends that like to party all pitch in and buy it for your on entertainment. For a ridiculous 
 price it makes up at the end. And therez a song for everyone in this game whether your a rocker, 
 a hardcore rocker, a hip hop lover ( belive it or not the beastie boys are in the game) , or 80s 
 lover. So please consider getting this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  I never was a big fan of guitar hero mainly because you play by yourself and I thought that to 
 be lame and boring. When I found out how awesome rock band was, I had to check it out. Especially 
 because you could play the drums, (since I'm a drummer) . It was definitely hard at first, I got 
 a little frustrated because I had to keep restarting the song. But once you get good at one of 
 the instruments... Wow. It felt unbelievable, but the ultimate best part about this game is the 
 ability to play with your friends together. I do recommend this game only to people who have friends 
 they can call over. If you don't, you might get a little lonely all by yourself. But in the end, 
 this is a highly addictive game with great customization and great features. The graphics aren't 
 what I would say as 'top notch," with the people looking pretty much the same. The game play is 
 why I gave this game a 90. Go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is one of the funnest games ever to play with 3 of your good friends. It combines the 
 awsomeness of Guitar Hero with Drums, and Vocals to create a truly unique experience. The Gameplay 
 in Rock Band is centered around the 3 music peripherals you recieve when you purchase the game. 
 The drums, the guitar, and the microphone. For seasoned GH players the guitar is going to feel 
 VERY easy, and I mean VERY easy. I 5 starred every expert in one playthrough except the very last 
 one. The drums are the most fun and most addicting as its something new and fun. The drumming is 
 user friendly and it you see and feel an improvement as you continue playing. The vocals are basically 
 just like any karioke game and they are fun if you have a little sister or something but I havent 
 bothered with them yet. The graphics are pleasing to the eye thought not spectacular. The soundtrack 
 for rock band feautures liess hard rock and metal and settles for more alternative and new stuff. 
 Rock Band is way to expensive for anybody who lives bythemselves because it is marketed as a party 
 game. Band world tour mode is fun but the fact that u have to be with a partner makes it frustrating 
 for a good amount of people. Overall Rock band is an awsome rhythym game but the fact that a partner 
 is needed for almost any lasting fun in the game brings rock band down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARSpartan0415
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is basically guitar hero, but with a band. Singing, drums, guitar, and bass are the instruments 
 and the band world tour is just simply fun and addictive. There aren't many flaws to the game except 
 for the fact that a lot of the instruments came broken, but EA did a great job with the replacements. 
 Another flaw is that they made the guitar songs way too easy. I understand that they wanted to 
 make the game accesible, but it made the solo careers just boring. The only song that matched the 
 difficulty of the last few songs in Guitar Hero 3 was Green Grass and High Tides, but if it were 
 in that game it would've been one of the easier songs in the last set. However, this game still 
 does a great job in multiplayer and that is what it was meant to be. When you have all the instruments 
 together, playing at the same time, that is when the game is simplay amazing. Band World Tour is 
 also very good and makes the career very interesting by just adding a few things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRM114
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Busted equipment aside (thankfully covered by a generous return policy) , Rock Band narrowly edges 
 out Call of Duty 4 as my most rewarding video game purchase of the past 3 months. Plain and simple 
 the game is a blast to play with friends, and has been a great tool for socializing with friends 
 and neighbor's on campus. While guitar hero veterans might scoff at the relatively easier guitar 
 parts, the opportunity to play as part of a four person band more than easily makes up for a lack 
 of difficulty. It's simply a lot of fun to get the opportunity to jam with your friends to a pretty 
 solid collection of songs, which, thankfully, are mostly originals and not covers. 
  
  Although the 170 price tag is certainly intimidating, if you can find enough cash, and have 2-3 
 buddies to play with you, the result will be undoubtedly some of the most fun you can have with 
 a game this year. Fantastic . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratgangsta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely fun, and creative. It offers never before seen instruments that make it 
 immesly fun to play. My biggest complain is that the drum parts repeat alot on some songs. It also 
 isn't quite as fun to play when you are alone, but if you have a few friends over it is one of 
 the best games for the 360, easily. Probably my favorite part is the soundtrack. it includes red 
 hot chili peppers, jet, bon jovi, fallout boy, oasis, the ramones, blink 182, and more. i love 
 these songs so i have a rgeat time playing them. this game will never get old (except maybe the 
 single player) , and is by far the best game i have to play when my friends are over. it is a bit 
 expensive, and once you buy a 2nd guitar it is up to $230, but i think it was worth the money. 
 (another side note is that you can't play co-op campaine online, which was very dissapointing) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  At first glance Rock Band looks like an overwhelming experience that we could only have imagined 
 possible. It seems insane for one console game be able to have drums, guitar, karaoke, and bass 
 all in one. Rock band has a soundtrack that can match any Guitar Hero soundtrack and has new songs 
 to download each week. The songs all sound great, even though you can tell if a song has a cover, 
 but it perfectly fine if you sacrifice the original to be able to play that song four different 
 ways. Karaoke also sometimes is an actual substitute for some songs with not so good voices. The 
 background action that occurs is actually worth mentioning, because instead of having points of 
 movement that coincide with "star power." They are rocking out the entire time. It really feels 
 like your playing together and having four players on one T. V. hasn't felt that right since you 
 were lan partying the first Halo. If you can't have a bunch of people over the online works just 
 fine and is still fun to play. The only negative i have about the game is that the hardware is 
 known to break, but considering the GH3 wireless guitar has issues has well it evens out. Rock 
 Band also will replace any faulty hardware. Other than that and the expensive $170 price point, 
 Rock Band is an unforgettable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: engineousgames
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I mostly played multi-player, and I found two things to be annoying:
  1) One of the instruments has to be associated with the leader of the band. After that you can 
 no longer play without that instrument. My friend and I almost picked the microphone but luckily 
 at the last second I set it as the guitar. Which is very very lucky since its quite difficult to 
 find people who are willing to sing.
  2) At some point we played enough that the game told us we had to start playing at a higher difficulty 
 to get more fans. Well right about that time my friend had to go back to law school and I was stuck 
 playing with other random people. Most of them barely play and were unable to play at a difficulty 
 other then easy. So right now my band is no longer gaining fans. A much smarter move would have 
 been to require only 1 instrument to play at the higher difficulty, allowing new comers to jump 
 in without penalty.
  
  The single player I barley played, but so far its a lot of fun. It seems to be missing some of 
 the aspects of multi-player, such as jumping around from venue to venue constantly.
  
  Overall this is my first guitar-type rhythm game and I like it a lot. I highly recommend it because 
 if you get tired of the guitar you can always jump onto the drums.
  
  You can read my more detailed review at vgviews. com:
  http://www. vgviews. com/review. php? review=114 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker924
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 8:50 am PT
Review:  This is a really great game. it's one of the best games I have ever played. My favorite instrument 
 on there is the drums. I think it's awesome how you can play vocals, guitar, bass, and drums. I 
 don't like the guitar controller that comes with the game. I'm used to the Guitar Hero controller 
 and the click that the strum bar makes so the Rock Band controller really messes me up. That's 
 probably the only problem I have with it. I know you can use a Guitar Hero controller for Rock 
 Band but my Guitar Hero is for PS2 so I can't use it right now. But this is a great overall game. 
 If they make a second one then I will surely buy it. One song I suggest if they make a second one 
 is Smells Like Teen Spirit by Nirvana, because it has some great guitar, awesome bass, amazing 
 drums, and rocking vocals, but that's just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreCoolFan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a rhythm game, where you can play as all the major instruments for real rock bands: 
 Drums, Guitar, Bass and Vocals. For this review, I'm reviewing each instrument and the rest of 
 the game. If you've ever played guitar hero, the guitar in rock band works the same way. You have 
 five colored buttons on the neck of the guitar, and strum bar. When a note of the corresponding 
 color reaches a part of the screen, hold the fret button and hit the strum bar. It's pretty much 
 that same as guitar hero. The bass guitar is just like guitar in the game except for two things. 
 First, bass is usually easier than real guitar and, unlike guitar where you can get a 4 times streak 
 multiplier, you can get up to six times. That's it. Now onto vocals, it's pretty much like real 
 singing. The words and pitch of the note shows up on screen and passes a line on the screen and 
 you sing into a microphone and try to match the pitch of the note. Not much to say anymore about 
 that. Now I'll talk about drums. This is probably one of the best parts of the game. You get four 
 pads and pedal. When a note comes on screen, hit the corresponding pad to hit it and when an orange 
 line comes, hit the pedal. I love this part because as a real drummer I love how much this emulates 
 real drums. The technique and style of playing is almost identical as real drums. Now that I've 
 reviewed all of the instruments, now it's time for the character customization. You make a character, 
 give a name, chose hair, skin ETC. But you only get a black shirt and jeans. You make money by 
 playing the game and use the money to buy new clothes from four sections in the store. The sections 
 are Punk, Metal, Goth and Rock. In conclusion, while each instrument themselves aren't exactly 
 that special, bringing them all together brings out something that makes one of the greatest multi-player 
 games of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veylsyde
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game rules meng !!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! UH huh !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!!! Get it it rocks !!! !!!!!!!! 
 !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!! !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!! 
 !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!
  !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!
  !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!
  !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!
  !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!
  !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!
  !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!
  !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!
  !! !!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! 
 !!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arb92
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The good parts of this game is the gameplay, if you loved the Guitar Hero gameplay, then the guitar 
 that comes with this game has the same gameplay, you can still go to Bass guitar and play the songs 
 on that setting and it works out well. The visuals are really nice, if you have time to look on 
 the background where all the band members are playing, they actually look like they are playing 
 the real thing as apposed to other games where it just looks like they are just hitting random 
 things and whatnot. The bundle comes with a Guitar controller, a Mic, and a Drum Kit, they all 
 are really cool and they work out pretty well. The Mic surprisingly transfers your singing as accurate 
 as possible if you are on the right setting. The Guitar again is just like Guitar Hero, you have 
 the same gameplay and everything, The set-list is really solid, it includes some great songs like 
 "Run To The Hills" by Iron Maiden, "In Bloom" by Nirvana, "Enter Sandman" by Metallica, and many 
 more, and over 80% of the set list is all the master tracks and not covers. The difficulty on the 
 Guitar has been "toned down" so that everyone can play and not make it like the hardest thing ever 
 is which Guitar Hero 3 was all about. The drums are really nice, it transfers notes well [if you 
 have a good set] , the pads can take a good beating, and on Hard and Expert, sometimes it feels 
 like you are playing the real thing.
  
  The parts that could be bad for some people is that if your instruments are not that good, especially 
 the drums, if you have a really stompy foot, good chances are eventually you will break that pedal 
 in half, or the pads can loose sensitivity. The game is expensive, for this version, it is around 
 160$ and that is a lot.
  
  Overall this is one of the best Music/Rhythm games to come out on the market, if you have the money 
 and people to play with on some cases, then this is definatly worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmatic_evil
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 2, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  We all loved Guitar Hero. The game that made our egos feel as if we were superstars even if just 
 for the moment that you nailed the 'why?!?' portion of Sabotage. The song that made you learn all 
 the words to Free bird, or at least the ability to mouth the entire guitar solo.
  
  Now you can have that same feeling. While working with your friends to accomplish an overall score, 
 while competing to play, or sing, better than your friends are respectively doing. Its kind of 
 a unique concept overall. Plus the whole 'world tour' career mode for the bands is genius. The 
 game challenges you and even though the guitar is slightly easier than it is in Guitar Hero, it's 
 still plenty challenging. You'll think you're hot stuff until Flirting With Disaster show's up 
 out of nowhere at a Southern Showcase and kicks your butt on hard...
  
  But them's the breaks, kid. Go out there and be a rock star! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiffy-tanker
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  My buddy Conrad got Rock Band and I played it once. Once was enough to figure out that this game 
 was the best rhythm game going! The peripherals are excellent, besides the craptacular strum bar 
 on the guitar and the possiblilty of snapping your kick pedal in half (Thrasher feet, try the guitar 
 of vocals.) . The song list kicks ass, (who can deny Metallica, the Foo Fighters, Nirvana, David 
 Bowie and Rush?) the character customization is totally awesome and the world tour is almost endless 
 fun. And don't even get me started on how totally amazing the co-op game play is. Plus, it has 
 so much downloadable content you could almost fill your hard drive! The only problem is not knowing 
 the lyrics of a song in expert. If you ask me, $170 is a total bargain! A mic, a drum set WITH 
 DRUM STICKS, and an awesome strat replica! Why haven't you bought this yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathbal888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  So me and a couple of friends of mine decided to pick this up last weekend and this was just so 
 fun we played it until 8am. 
  
  We split the price up between the 3 of us- $60 each so if you dont have enough money for the bundle.... get 
 some friends to pitch in, its definitely worth it.
  
  Song-wise... Rock Band's songs are all great. You will not be dissapointed. Plus there are already 
 several downloads available.
  GH3 has like almost no downloads and they are expensive.
  
  When I first tried out the Rock Band guitar I didnt really like it since I was used to the GH guitar 
 but im feeling more conmfortable with it now, you get used to it.
  Drums are fun to play.... I can already do most songs on hard but it takes a while to get the hang 
 of it.
  
  Overall its a great game, its hella fun to play with some friends, definitely recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackWolf0526
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. I have GH3 & decide to get the game more so I'd have new songs 
 than anything else. I ended up forgetting i had GH3 because of how much fun this game is. I had 
 a blast playing through the one player mode and customizing my rocker. It feels much more hands-on 
 than GH3's one player mode. But the best part of this game is the multiplayer, hands-down. When 
 you and your friends play together you'll feel like an actual band. Just make sure you're singer 
 won't be easily embarrassed lol. The sound quality is pretty high and the graphics are awesome. 
 Another great thing about this game is that you can play the 360 version with the GH guitars. So, 
 if you already have them you just need the game, drums and Mic to have the full package. This has 
 to be one of the best party games out there. Me and my friends got a blast from playing together. 
 Overall, it's one of the best games I've played for the 360 to date & I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garrison_Ford
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  *** ROCK BAND ***
  
  THE GOOD
  -Very addicting gameplay
  -Multiplayer mode is outstanding
  -Excellent selection of music
  -Great party game
  -Good 
 graphics
  -Excellent sound
  -Solid controls for each instrument
  -Good downloadable content
  -Plenty of replay value
  
  THE BAD
  -This game costs a fortune
 
  
  OVERVIEW
  Rock Band is like Guitar Hero on steroids. You have the same addicting gameplay but now singing 
 and drums have been added to the mix. In this game you can play as the lead singer, lead guitar, 
 bass, and/or drums and rock out to a variety of great songs. You can play by yourself or with three 
 other people. If you play with multiple people each person can set their own difficulty, which 
 is nice. The objective of the game is for you and your band members to become rock legends.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Rock Band is a game that anybody can pick up and play which makes it great for 
 parties. The controls for each instrument are not only simple to use but makes the game feel very 
 close to being realistic. For this game you can be the lead singer, lead guitar, bass or drums. 
 The game works a lot like the other Guitar Hero games for the guitar, bass and drums in that the 
 notes scroll downward, in tune with the song, and you have to time the correct color button or 
 pad with the note. Singing works very similar to any karaoke type game. During each song, players 
 have to hit their notes and the more successful hits you get the higher you move up on the meter 
 (located on the left of the screen) . If one player messes up too much their part will end and it 
 is the job of everyone else to play better in order to save them. If the rest of the band can't 
 save the downed player, everybody loses and has to start over. This proves to be a great team building 
 game.
  
  The lead guitar and bass works the same as Guitar Hero where you just hold down the button (strings) 
 and strum just like you would a normal guitar. The lead singer sings, into the microphone, the 
 lyrics that scroll across the top and tries to get the right pitch and length of each word. Now 
 one question you might have is "I'm a bass so how am I going to hit the notes of a tenor?" Well, 
 as far as I see it, the game knows if you are singing in octaves so you don't have to have a huge 
 singing range to play this game. Now these three parts are fun to play but the drums are my personal 
 favorite. You have four drum pads and a bass petal and all you have to do is hit the pads with 
 your stick in time with the notes. I will have to say that if you are not a drummer this could 
 take a while to pick up.
  
  Xbox Live offers plenty of downloadable content like songs and other extras which greatly increases 
 the replay value. There are other extra things you can do in the game like unlock songs, create 
 your own character and a few other modes of play. This makes the game challenging and keeps the 
 gameplay fresh. Unfortunately, Rock Band will hurt your wallet. So, you might have to save up for 
 a while or get some friends to pitch in some money.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The visuals for the game are just fine. The graphics aren't to important for a game like this.
 
  
  SOUND
  Amazing. There is a huge library of songs to pick from with all of your favorite bands in there. 
 The sound quality is superb for each instrument and greatly enhances the gameplay. Again, you'll 
 real feel like a Rock Star with the high quality of sound for this game.
  
  CONCLUSION
  Rock Band is one of the best rhythm games to date. With lots of replay value and addicting gameplay 
 you won't be disappointed with your purchase. So, what are you waiting for? Turn your crappy garage 
 band in to the complete Rock Band! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  So, its been a while since the USA had thier version released, and Canada has had thiers for a 
 short period now. I Personally spent $280 CDN (when dollar was higher) and got mine sent up from 
 the US. Regrets??? NONE!!
  
  When we thought Guitar Hero had brought us a new level of fun, Rockband came and reared its beatiful 
 head. Guitars, Drums and Mics! It met the hype! Not only does it allow multiple people to play 
 at the same time (no more switching out) , but it allows people to fall into a position they are 
 comforatble with. Friends are even willing to do the singing, which i thought would be the hardest 
 position to fill. 
  
  The Game brings songs from the last 3 decades. David Bowie, Aerosmith, Nirvana, Oasis (DLC) , and 
 so on as mentioned by GS on thier song list. The amount of released songs for Rockband on XBL is 
 amazing. It keeps players constantly looking for the new songs and the packaged deals are reasonable. 
 
  
  When you have all four players going at once, i find it slightly crowded on a 40" LCD. But only 
 slightly. If you are running a tv anything less, 4 players may be a bit much.
  
  The difficultly level was a shock. If you have played guitar hero, you will find the guitar lacking 
 difficulty. while the Expert on GH is a good challange to me personally, there are very few songs 
 on Rockband that bring that same level of challange. The Singing is easy enough and becomes more 
 sensitive to your tones on higher levels. Seems to have increased my singing ability a little bit..... i 
 still sound like crap tho. The Drums, i find the hardest as it is difficult to teach your limbs 
 to do different things (foot/arms) . after completing the Medium career i found that was a good 
 warmup to prepare me for the Hard level. Although i am still failing some on Hard, i find that 
 it present a challange, that doesnt destroy your morale. You can see then light, and you need to 
 work to get there. (if your not already a drummer) . 
  
  This is the type of game, where its fun without a drink, and even more enjoyable with a few drinks 
 in you. Spend the $170 for a full band. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagemusha219
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  I really don't know how to describe this game to anybody who hasn't played it. It is simply magnificent. 
 My friends and I have been hooked to many multiplayer games (skate being the last) but none have 
 approached the amount of fun we have playing this. The gameplay is innovative, all intruments are 
 fun to play (drums being the best of all, coming from a guitar player) and the songs are fantastic. 
 Believe me, you will never get tired of playing tom sawyer and the downloadable songs make the 
 game even better. The only con really is the steep price point, however cheaper packs will come 
 out soon. Dont hesitate to buy this game...... 
  
  Oh. And if you are a drum player, this is by far the most realistic drum simulation offered on 
 the market. Play tom Sawyer on expert and you will have to deal with crazy highhat, rythem changing, 
 bass pedal action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PalatialRegalia
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Rockband. It's a great game and really fun, especially because you and your friends can "rock-out" 
 together and this game is great for that. I just thought that you should know a few things... Guitar 
 Hero 3's soundtrack is way better has many more/better songs, but you can always download more 
 songs for it online. So pretty much if you want this game for the guitar, get Guitar Hero. Unless, 
 you will have friends playing it with you or you can play online, this game is overpriced. The 
 bundle is $160 and if it's just you playing by yourself then either just buy the disk or get Guitar 
 Hero. Back to the game, it is easily enjoyable and you will have fun no doubt. You can do whatever 
 your heart desires whether it's singing, drumming, guitar/bass, there is something for you here. 
 One thing i don't like about the bundle is that when i opened mine there was a broken microphone 
 in it. Microphones are cheap so you have to be careful, and i have also heard that if your a "Hard-core" 
 drummer then watch the foot-pedal because they have snapped before. The guitar controller is kind 
 of like the Guitar Hero controllers but spiced up a bit, they have another set of (colored) buttons 
 lower down the neck so when your playing solo's you can look like the rock-star you are. One final 
 thing is the solo playing, this is really cool because it starts this meter kind of thing where 
 it tells you how much percent of the solo you did correctly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I though this game looked kinda stupid at first, but I just bought it yesterday, and boy was I 
 wrong. This game is really fun in every aspect. Im not much of a singer, but you can get friends 
 to come over who can and you can do whats called a band world tour. I still love the standard guitar, 
 but the bass and drums are cool too. The live is fun because it has a couple of different modes. 
 It also has a lot more songs than guitar hero, and in my opnion, a better setlist. Also, this game 
 has AWESOME downloadable content. I downloaded the metallica pack-The best DLC pack ever, joker 
 and the thief-great song by wolfmother, the kill-okay song, fun to play and only 80 points, little 
 sister=Queens of the stone age song, lot of chords and is pretty challenging on expert, and gimme 
 three steps-Lynyrd Skynyrd, very good song in my opinion. Fun to play and just an overall good 
 song. So pretty much ALL of the songs I downloaded are awesome and are all well worth the points. 
 If you are a fan of music games, GET THIS NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  After playing a few songs in Rock Band you seem to notice you keep playing the same songs over 
 and over again. the game has only two good things about it the vocals and the drums. the guitar 
 and bassist parts get boring because the game does not have songs that make you wanna get up and 
 scream after you play them meaning they dont get you amped. I mean yea there are a few good songs 
 thats only a few i wanted the whole tracklist to have really good songs. the band world tour mantains 
 a balanced challenge asking you to move up diifficulties during your tour. to me the world tour 
 is not fun at all. the best things to do is either play the drums or sing the songs with the mic. 
 there is nothing really special about rockband its just the same as guitar hero just with added 
 features and the tracklist is worst. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazydude_890
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  This game, although frustratingly difficult at time, challenges you to become better and better 
 and gives you the whole rock band experience. The multiplayer is without a doubt the best game 
 for any system and, though I don't like about half of the songs on the track list, it's very diverse 
 and are still fun to play regardless of musical tastes. The hardware for the guitar makes it easier 
 for hammer-ons but it takes some time to get used to it and the vocals are always fun when someone 
 gets in there for the sake of the band. The drums are by far the hardest and most realistic of 
 the instruments and though I have heard of problems of them breaking when people play too hard 
 I haven't had a problem yet and have been wailing on them without mercy. All in all, I can't stay 
 away from this overly-addictive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carpe_Noctum
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a pretty decent game. It is fun when you have people over to rock out but you better 
 have a decent size TV, other wise it can be hard to see with 2 Strings and a drum going. The songs 
 are fine, everyone has a different taste so it's really a mute point. The DL content is not to 
 expensive but is ultimatly a complete waste of money. You rarely play them and they can only be 
 used within the game. We all know about the instruments, they break. I have not had that problem 
 yet, but I tell anyone who uses them to go easy. The difficulty settings are so far off it's a 
 joke. The jump from Med. to Hard is completely to drastic. When I have friends come over they actually 
 get bored of Med., but then can't finish Hard, or barely can. It's no problem if you sit around 
 playing Rock Band all day but the fact is, the jump is to much. Add that to the fan cap. If I am 
 playing on hard and my friends are on Med. we can't gain fans unless EVERYONE is on Hard. Not going 
 to happen as they have real lives.
  The graphics are fine, not that great but they do the job. What sucks is the clothing choices. 
 70% of the outfits are just junk, not just my thoughts but a feeling of everyone I have talked 
 to that have played the game.
  This franchise has a long way to go and a lot of improvements to make, but all-n-all, it's a great 
 game to play when you get home from a party with some friends. If you have the cash to blow then 
 do it, just don't bother saving money for this game when you could have 3 great games instead. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomPhoot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  After the controversial split with Activision, most were worried about the future of this great 
 developer. Guitar Hero is one of the greatest party/rhytm games ever created, so how could this 
 company survive without it? I'll tell you how: by one-upping it. Sure, Guitar Hero III is a solid 
 game, and features sme excellent guitar work, but its focus is on shredding solos and insane difficulty. 
 Now, granted, I love a challenge just as much as the next guy, but for those of you who want to 
 just have some of the best gaming moments in your life, try out Rock Band.
  
  This game has four different instruments for you to play cooperatively, and it works ot fantastically. 
 The vocals are tuned exactly to the song so you can practice adjusting your pitch ike a true singer 
 (I never knew my voice was so sexy) , the guitar is not too difficult but just right and rarely 
 results in frantic button mashes and bleeding calluses, the bass is easy and makes you really want 
 to take up the instrument, and then there are the drums. Yes, thes drums are a game all in itself. 
 Just think: Drum Hero. Harmonix combined fou of the greatest rhythm games into one unbelievable 
 package nd create a fun and friendly atmosphere (unless your bandmtes suck) .
  
  I find the Solo moe to be as fun, if not more fun then GH's single player campaign. The main reason 
 is this: Your own characters are on the stage. No more are the days of disliking your Guitar Hero's 
 appearences. Now, your very own rock persona is unleashed into the game's amazing visuals. Watch 
 as your rocker performs all of the stunts you wish you could do, and pat yourself on the back, 
 not Johnny Napalm or Judy Nails/ Pandora clone.
  
  Band mode is alot more complicated then you might expect. There are no clear-cut paths to take. 
 You and your group of one, two, or three other people make decisions and play through various gigs, keeping 
 loyal to your true fans or selling out to the man for profits. The choice is up to you. Gambling 
 on your winnings is also key (i. e. double or nothing on cash, fans, etc.) .
  
  Pulling failing bandmates out of oblivion is a nice feature, but poorly executed on the drums, 
 due to the fact that drums can only use star-power on certan drum-fills. So, basically, don't rely 
 on thm to pull you out fro oblivion. Another problem with the game is so random character they 
 use to fill in positions not occupied by created characters (imagine a large, tall, metal-head 
 complete with armor and face paint. Now imagine him singing in a falsetto to Flyleaf or the Yeah 
 Yeah Yeahs...) . It can create some wierd shows, and doesn't always match the mood of the song (headbanging 
 maniacally to Here It Goes Again, lol) .
  
  Other than that, grab some friends or random guys online and hve a bast playing the best music 
 game ever created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandpiper121PP
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  So the new era of gaming is here. For all you wanna be musicians or even musicians who just wanna 
 have fun.... Rock Band is just for you. Unlike it's predicessors... Guitar Hero (1, 2, & 3) ... 
 this game not only comes with a guitar, but a microphone and a drum kit. It also comes with the 
 game Rock Band (which can be purchased separately for $60.00) so if you are wanting the instruments 
 and mic... the $170.00 box set is your best purchase price. Let's break the box open and see what 
 is inside.
  
  Upon opening the box I was first to find the Fender Stratocaster. Black in design... with a maple 
 looking fret board. The first thing I noticed about the guitar was (that unlike GH2 or GH3) it 
 had a couple of additions to it. There was an extra set of buttons up where the 12 fret of a real 
 guitar would be. Smaller in size... these are very nice for people whom have smaller hands, like 
 kids, so they can play easier. I personally found them fun to use when you do the solo. They kinda 
 give you that extra feeling of doing it for real. There is also the toggle switch (5 position) 
 that actually works to give you a choice of 4 different sound effects (wah-wah, echo, flanger & 
 chorus) or off in the 5th position for normal sound. I personally thought the chorus was nice (like 
 to guitars playing together in harmonic pitch) . Now the bad stuff about the guitar. The strum bar 
 is kinda weird if you are used to the Guitar Hero ones. It acts like it is on a rubber bounce back 
 system and is rather funky to use, I cannot strum as fast on this guitar as I can on my GH3 Black 
 Gibson Les Paul... but then again... you really don't have to in this game. More on that later 
 on. The other thing that was bad is the placement of the Whammy Bar. Everytime I went to use it 
 I would hit one of the start or back buttons & or the toggle switch mentioned above. That made 
 using it rather hard to work with.
  
  Next out of the box... the microphone. Nothing flashy here... a simple microphone. Plug it in and 
 sing... NOT! I am not a singer by any means... but I can sing better than most. I wanted to see 
 just what this game wanted in a singer so I loaded up a song and started to sing. It is kinda like 
 a side scrolling (or you can have it be static as well) marquee for the lyrics. There is an arrow 
 that points at the pitch of where you are supposed to be. If you are on the money... it will be 
 green. It will change color if you start to fall off key and go up or down depending upon which 
 way you are currently out of key. SO... for a test I was singing this song and didn't really know 
 the words or the song too well... so I just started to hum the notes to the singer in the background. 
 It worked! I was able to just go HMMMMMM thru an entire song and not even sing... and I got over 
 90% on the score! So next I did a parody of Black Hole Sun by Bob Rivers called A$$hole Son and 
 it accepted those lyrics and gave me over 90% again! So you really don't even need to sing... just 
 hum to the music... but if you are into the singing... it can still be fun to do that. The other 
 thing you do with the microphone is that you get to tap on it with your hand at certain points 
 in the game where it gives you a tambourine line to play when you are not singing. I really did 
 like that because it added fun to the singers part!
  
  Now the drums. Everybody wants the drum part right? They were very easy to set up... but as far 
 as playing goes... that took some work. After getting them all set up you need to find a chair 
 that is just right to sit in because the first thing you are going to notice is that your bass 
 pedal leg will start to hurt after a couple of songs if you are at the wrong height. I have also 
 heard it recommended that you use your calf muscle to work the pedal instead of your upper leg. 
 More of a tapping motion is what I do... and it works well for me. You will not really experience 
 alot of foot work that is really hard until you get into the Hard Mode or Expert Mode (Tom Sawyer 
 by Rush... what a workout!) As far as playing the drums goes... you really don't have to hit them 
 hard. In fact it is better if you just hit them lightly and they will respond back. If you start 
 to hit too hard... they will not respond at all. I really wish that they would have made it where 
 you could swap the sounds on the drums for what ever you wanted... but still they are alot of fun 
 to play.
  
  Gameplay! Ok... so you can play in one of six modes. Create a band locally, play in a band on XBox 
 Live, or play in single player mode (Easy, Medium, Hard or Expert) . I made a band at my appartment 
 with my friends. There is alot to making a band in this game. First of all... what to call yourself. 
 After that... who is playing what or singing? Each person gets to not only name their person in 
 the game... but you can customize them COMPLETELY! What an added bonus that is! Youi can be a guy 
 or a girl... and then go and dress them in different outfits from Goth to Punk and everything in 
 between. Tons of color selections as well for each outfit. You also get to choose their hairstyle 
 and makeup as well. Yes you also can get tatoos that you custom make and can put anywhere in anyway 
 on your character. From Glasses to Hair, Shirts to Shoes it is all there just waiting for you to 
 accesorize! You also get alot of different Guitars/Basses to choose from too. You can also customize 
 them with different paint jobs or natual ones too. Gretsch, Fender & Jackson seem to be the three 
 big contributors to the Guitar/Basses in this game. I really wish Gibson would have allowed it 
 but oh well. Now that you are all named, dressed, and accesorized up... let's play.
  
  If you are in solo mode... it is just like Guitar Hero 2 or 3. The track of notes you need to hit 
 comes at you down the middle. The higher the mode (Easy, Medium, Hard, or Expert) the faster and 
 more notes are added to play. If you are doing the singing... then the track goes across the bottom 
 of the screen for you to read. Just like in the Guitar Hero series... if you hit the notes correctly... 
 your points go up as well as does your mutliplier. That was one thing I noticed very quickly is 
 that the multiplier goes up very fast. No complaints there. As notes come at you... some are glowing 
 white. Those are now called overdrive notes. (formerly Star Power in GH games) Play all of them 
 and your meter just under where the notes go off the screen goes moves up. This was one thing I 
 really did like about this game. Unlike in Guitar Hero... if you lean back and are using star power... 
 and star notes go by as you are in that mode... in Guitar Hero... you lose those notes. In Rock 
 Band... if you hit them as you are in Overdrive Mode... THEY ARE ADDED DIRECTLY TO YOUR METER! 
 Very Cool! In the upper right corner is your score and it is a little different being that stars 
 are slowly added as you do well. Circles get drawn and then filled in with a star upon coompletion. 
 From 1 star to 5 stars. The better you do... the more stars you get and the higher your score goes. 
 They put the (how good am I doing meter) on the left side. I like that as well being it now is 
 not all cluttered at the bottom. If it is red... you better deploy Overdrive Mode (if you have 
 it to save you) or fail the song! I also noticed in Band Mode... each person is on the same meter 
 and they each have a symbol for what they are doing. so you can see who is failing and who isn't. 
 This is also very nice because if your drummer is failing... and you as the guitarist or singer 
 have Overdrive Power stored up... you in fact can save them and bring up them back into the green! 
 Very cool as well. If one of your band mates fails... the other 1, 2 or 3 need to play well to 
 try to reinstate the failed musician back in the game or risk blowing the entier song! It really 
 becomes a team effort!
  
  With over 50 songs included in the game, you will not get bored very fast. Everything from Boston's 
 "Long Time" to Faith No More's "Epic" and a ton more. Personally I found the songs very easy to 
 play on Hard Mode on the Guitar. Hard Mode on Rock Band is alot like Medium on Guitar Hero 2. There 
 is also a lot of (Microsoft Points Required) songs on XBox Live for download too. They have single 
 songs and then packs that are of just one artist. Supposively alot more are comming out soon. There 
 is also additional unlockable content in the actual game for songs too. Even some side gigs are 
 included as you go around the world!
  
  Also one final note is that supposively you will be able to purchase the instruments separately 
 soon as well... should you want to just get the game and go from there. My Guitar Hero 2 wireless 
 Black Gibson Les Paul works just fine with the game and is my personal guitar of choice anyhow. 
 I have read several topics about the bass pedal for the drum kit breaking easily... I sure hope 
 they offer that separately if that is the case! Currently they do not sell the instruments or replacement 
 parts on the manufacture website.
  
  In conclusion... if you are at all into the gaming genre of music games... you would probably like 
 this game. It would be a great game for those who like to have parties and get everybody involved. 
 As a stand alone game I personally like it because I can play the guitar one day... then sing (Hum) 
 the next day. Or play drums too! There are alot of Achievement Unlocks for this game on XBox Live. 
 Some for each instrument and some for bands as well. The package is a well put together game with 
 alot of different things to do to keep the average gamer happy for a long time to come. Get your 
 friends together... and ROCK ON! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bret_Hart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Rock Band, in a way, is Harmonix's answer to the recent purchase of their guitar hero franchise 
 from Neversoft. Although some gamers may have let out some curses, this could be the best thing 
 that has happened to the original Guitar Hero developer.
  
  If you are familiar with the Guitar Hero franchise (which, unless you're living under a rock, you 
 probably are) , Rock Band works in the same fashion, with scrolling notes mimicking their real-life 
 counterparts. However, Rock Band offers so much more. Here, besides being given the ability to 
 play the guitar, you are also able to play the drums and sing with Rock Band's own microphone. 
 This adds tremendous depth to the game, and will make you want to come back for more. 
  
  Now with the introduction out of the way, I'll start with the game's fundamentals. Rock Band is 
 a multiplayer experience. The game's "story" mode, entitled "Band World Tour", is about you and 
 up to three of your buddies rocking out around the world and earning fans and cash in the process. 
 The way that the mode progresses is much the same as in the Guitar Hero franchise; you start out 
 in small gigs earning very little pay, and then work your way up into arenas and stadiums. 
  
  The difference in Rock Band's story mode is that it is much more refined from the Guitar Hero 
 experience. In Rock Band, you are able to create your own character, give him/her a name, and customize 
 what they wear. The character will be saved to the Gamertag in which you created it, and you can 
 edit their name and clothing at any time. Although this may not seem like such a big deal, it really 
 is. Instead of using a pre-set character like in Guitar Hero, you can create your own likeness, 
 making the game so much more personal. You'll really feel like it is you rocking out on-stage, 
 instead of some crappy guy named Axel Steel. 
  
  Rock Band's interface is also arguably more polished than the Guitar Hero franchise. When the guitarist 
 goes in for solos, the fret board turns blue and a small message appears which tells you the percentage 
 of notes that you hit for that solo in particular. Also, because the fret board was clear in the 
 game, I found less cases of my eyes getting tricked into thinking that everything around me was 
 constantly moving. When all four instruments are in use, the game has great placement, and a small 
 message even comes up over each fretboard to let the player's know who's who. Finally, another 
 really cool addition for bass players is the "Bass groove" mode. When you continually hit notes 
 with perfect accuracy while strumming up, you automatically go into a x6 multiplier. These little 
 features make the Rock Band experience feel even more refined, and the latter keeps bass players 
 from getting bored. 
  
  Rock Band's track list is very good. It features an even number of songs from the 60's up until 
 now, and each one encompasses all the features of a band. This means that you'll get songs in which 
 every artist is pushing their limit, which makes it that much more satisfying when playing with 
 friends. Deep Purple's "Highway Star" is a perfect example of this; the drum, guitar, microphone 
 and bass skills are all pushed to their limits. This just totally refines the experience. However, 
 there are some duds in the song department (like Fallout Boy) , but this is only my opinion. This 
 game really covers a broad audience musically, so whether you're a fan of today's music or of the 
 classic music from the 60's and 70's, you'll be pleasantly surprised with the game's track list. 
 
  
  In addition, Rock Band offers tons and tons of downloadable content. In fact, this may be the biggest 
 reason to warrant a purchase for Rock Band outside of the mutliplayer experience. In addition to 
 offering full album downloads, the game gives players three new songs for download each week on 
 the Xbox Live Marketplace. And with 200 new songs scheduled for 2008, this game is never going 
 to get old. 
  
  Rock Band's online mode is also great fun. You can invite friends to play with you or go head to 
 head against someone else. There is hardly any lag and is is loads of fun. 
  
  In conclusion, Rock Band is an amazing experience. Whether you want to bang on the drums, shred 
 on the guitar or whale on the microphone alone or share the spotlight with three others is your 
 choice. This is easily one of the best musical games ever made, and it may be the best party game 
 ever made as well. Rock On.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhezekim
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  This Game Really Does Let The Old Man Rock On! In case you haven't looked at my profile, I'm a 
 50 yr old male, Disabled American Veteran. I live for the internet, email, and my XBOX 360. They 
 are what keep my mind sharp and active, well active anyway. Rock Band is a fun game. I also own 
 Guitar Hero III which I love but Rock Band has new songs available to download every Tuesday, GH 
 III doesn't. Rock Band has 3 different instruments for you to play, four if you count bass, GH 
 III doesn't. I am a GH III addict so imagine how much more addicted I became to Rock Band. I wish 
 when they made this game that they would take into consideration that there is a large number of 
 disabled people who game. Playing guitar isn't easy but it is the easiest of all the instruments 
 in my opinion. The drums are hard for me because of the kick drum. If you didn't have to use the 
 kick drum it wouldn't be near as hard for me. Easy isn't easy on the drums and when you go to medium 
 they add a bunch more of the kick drum notes so that half way through the song I am beat. Singing 
 is fun because you don't have to know the words, just try and get the pitch right. While I haven't 
 had any problems yet with the drums or the mic I will say that my wired guitar went out on me within 
 a week of getting the game for Christmas. The great thing about Rock Band is that if you have a 
 credit card, Rock Band will ship you a replacement guitar free of charge and pay for shipping both 
 ways. If you don't use a credit card then you have to wait for Rock Band to mail you an empty box 
 that you return your guitar in, this could take weeks. I got my replacement guitar within five 
 days of reporting the issue. The notes are a lot harder to hit on this game than on GH III which 
 makes it all the more challenging. I love the guitar solos and the bass grooves and the free for 
 all finishes at the end of some songs really lets you rock out. I say job well done Rock Band. 
 My only suggestion would be able to allow the World Band Tour to be played online because if you 
 don't have people at home to play the game you miss out on the real fun of Rock Band. Keep the 
 great song lists coming and Rock On everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhawk256
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  How can a game cost $170, yet still be worth every penny? It only takes a few minutes of playing 
 Rock Band with others to realize the answer. The term "experience" gets tossed around a bit too 
 freely to describe video games these days, but one could accurately describe Rock Band as the closest 
 us mere mortals will ever come to living the dream of a true legendary music act. Guitar Hero is 
 a video game; Rock Band is an experience.
  
  Dismissing Guitar Hero, however, would be a back-handed complement to RB's creators, Harmonix, 
 who also happen to be the forefathers of GH. The similarities on the guitar side of things are 
 immediately apparent, if not entirely expected. After all, the Xbox 360's X-Plorer guitar controller 
 is fully compatible with RB (though the same cannot be said of the PS3's Les Paul) . The core gameplay 
 of RB's guitar game replicates GH's verbatim, right down to tilting the guitar vertically to activate 
 Star Power (or as RB dubs it, "Overdrive") .
  
  However, the new Fender Stratocaster guitar controller itself sports some unique design choices. 
 On the whole, it feels more solid and looks more authentic; the green, red, yellow, blue, and orange 
 colors that dominated the buttons on GH's controllers are now only visible from the sides, making 
 the Strat look like something more believable than a Fisher Price toy. It also includes an effects 
 switch that changes the sounds (wah-wah, flanger, chorus, and my personal favorite: echo) of the 
 guitar notes that play through the television speakers, as well as five additional buttons on the 
 lower end of the neck that don't require players to touch the strum bar at all while playing solos 
 (not through the entire song) . Other perks include a detachable strap holder that can be placed 
 on the other side of the guitar to accommodate lefties, and a whammy bar that's easier to well, 
 whammy. None of these additional features of the guitar, however, truly separate the Strat from 
 Guitar Hero's other controllers when it comes down to getting high scores.
  
  What definitely will divide some people on the usefulness of the Strat is its strum bar. Those 
 used to the hard clicks of the GH controller's strum bars will find the high resistance and low 
 noise of the Strat's bar quite jarring at first. Not only is it quieter, but it requires much lighter 
 taps of the thumb for the game to recognize an input. The lack of "clickiness" to the bar definitely 
 makes keeping a streak during fast up-and-down strumming more challenging. Luckilly, the majority 
 of songs included in Rock Band will be anything but challenging for GH veterans (a subject I'll 
 touch on later) .
  
  Much like RB copies its guitar mechanics from one of Harmonix's own series, so does it base the 
 fundamentals of its vocals game on Karaoke Revolution. Match the pitch of the song (regardless 
 of octave or lyrics) , and a small on-screen arrow will travel down green lines that represent that 
 word's tone. Keeping a score multiplier entails keeping the arrow in these green zones of each 
 phrase enough to fill up a small circular meter; phrases receive ratings that scale from "Awesome" 
 to "Weak" based on how full the meter is by the end of the phrase, and only "Awesome" ratings will 
 build and maintain a multiplier. To prevent singers from getting bored during long guitar solos, 
 the mic also represents a tambourine, clapping hands, or cowbell (anyone got a fever?) ; tapping 
 the mic with the hand in time with on-screen symbols boosts the singer's score even further.
  
  Any USB microphone will interpret your voice just as well as the one included in the bundle, 
 so singing ends up being the simplest aspect of the band dynamic once you memorize the song. Some 
 tunes like The Clash's "Should I Stay Or Should I Go" and Soundgarden's "Black Hole Sun" have instantly 
 recognizable tones and lyrics, but some of the trickier, lesser-known songs include The Strokes' 
 "Reptilia," The Rolling Stones' "Gimme Shelter," and Aerosmith's "Train Kept a' Rollin."
  
  Then there are sections like most of Faith No More's "Epic" and the entirety of Beastie Boys' "Sabotage" 
 that aren't so much singing as they are talking. Here, lyrics do matter, and tone doesn't. The 
 game does an admirable job of interpreting things like which sounds and how many syllables are 
 being spoken as long as the mic sensitivity settings (adjustable on the fly using the regular 
 controller) aren't too high. Some phrases are just too stubborn for the game to recognize, even 
 when players are saying the correct lyrics.
  
  A big problem with the vocals aspect, and one that prevents singers from going nuts and feeling 
 like an actual rock star, is the strict flat-level nature of the green lines that represent players' 
 tone. Annunciating the "L" sound in "look," for example, will prevent the arrow from traveling 
 down the green line right from the beginning, which can make all the difference between an "Awesome" 
 rating and a "Strong" rating on a phrase, breaking the score multiplier. Success in the vocals 
 game typically comes from either leading each word on the screen by about a third of a second, 
 or simply making noise that matches the tone while completely ignoring the lyrics themselves, both 
 of which just make things awkward for the rest of the band. In a sense, the bands who actually 
 recorded these songs wouldn't be able to get high scores on their own vocals. Those looking to 
 just have fun with the singing while preventing the entire band from failing the song are advised 
 to play on the Easy and Medium difficulty levels, which are less strict about how much of the green 
 lines need to be "hit" before getting "Awesome" ratings.
  
  Drums aren't a new concept to video games, but nothing has accurately replicated the setup of an 
 actual drum kit quite like Rock Band's. Four solid circular pads with colored rims (representing 
 the snare, high-hat, tom-tom, and crash cymbal) sit atop an adjustable set of metal poles, and 
 the game includes real wooden drumsticks for players to whack the pads with to their hearts' contents. 
 What may throw many new players for a loop, however, is the foot pedal that rests on the floor 
 (representing the kick drum) . Pedal notes come down the chart as long, thin orange lines, and they 
 require players to separate their hands from their feet.
  
  While it does indicate how real drummers play, the foot pedal will be what separates the men from 
 the boys in RB. It takes a lot of practice to get used to, and the mandatory use of the pedal on 
 every song (even on Easy difficulty) is an unfortunate design choice that could turn off the rhythmically-challenged. 
 It's also the most fragile piece of equipment in the set (this reviewer personally snapped one 
 in two) , next to the guitar's strum bar. On the bright side, once players can handle the drum beats 
 of songs like Iron Maiden's "Run to the Hills" and The Who's "Won't Get Fooled Again," they might 
 actually have a shot at playing real drums!
  
  As the title implies, Rock Band is designed as a co-operative experience. While players can take 
 on solo tours for each instrument that play out exactly like GH's career modes (progressing through 
 tiers of progressively more difficult songs) when others aren't around, the game's Band World Tour 
 mode is completely different in structure. Once the band has been solidified, it starts a small 
 hometown venue. Each venue offers two or three pre-determined songs for the band to complete, as 
 well as some sets of several songs that must be beaten right after the other in order to pass. 
 Completing songs and sets reward bands with money (for buying new items to customize the different 
 members' appearances) , stars (for unlocking new venues in the city to play new songs) , fans (for 
 amplifying the cash rewards and unlocking new events) , and other specialized perks like a manager 
 to inform players of which cities have the biggest rewards, and vehicles that allow to the band 
 to tour in farther out places.
  
  A neat dynamic to Band World Tour is the "bets" that players can either accept or decline. Some 
 bets simply offer tradeoffs between money and fans, while others require the band to achieve a 
 certain star rating in double-or-nothing stakes. Conversations between band mates over the importance 
 of fans over money are bound to ensue  just like a real band!
  
  While Band World Tour technically does have certain climaxes, like winning 1,000,000 fans, or becoming 
 platinum artists by completing a grueling 18-song set, the mode is, for all intents and purposes, 
 infinite. Players won't be able to buy that $20,000 guitar after just a few songs. The mode also 
 requires each member of the band to be present locally, making the exclusion of online play for 
 this mode all the more disappointing. Players can get together online to play songs, but these 
 are "one night only" scenarios; the game doesn't record the different players as a full-fledged 
 band, nor does it track their statistics accordingly.
  
  Surprisingly, the process of creating a band can be a lot of fun. Gone are the pre-fab caricatures 
 of Guitar Hero like Axel Steel and Judy Nails; Harmonix has included a deep customization system 
 for creating unique on-screen performers. Everything from the rocker's hometown, to the color of 
 the instrument, to the tattoos on his/her body can be manipulated to the player's liking. Character 
 customization in a rhythm game may not sound like a big deal, but it actually goes a long way in 
 making players feel like they are in the game, playing on-stage.
  
  Speaking of on-stage, the presentation of the actual performances is a huge step up from Guitar 
 Hero. The camera cuts to appropriate areas of the stage (it will focus on the drummer during a 
 drum solo) , the singer lip-syncs correctly, the crowds look massive, the guitarist and bassist 
 move their fingers in the correct places, and it just looks like a rock performance should, right 
 down to every member jumping and hitting the floor just as the last note plays. Creative use of 
 stage lighting and video filters also give each song a distinct personality, and players can even 
 hear the crowd singing along with them if they're performing well. Much like a real band, the game 
 looks good enough that your performance may draw in a crowd of on-lookers.
  
  The game manages "band" entities in peculiar ways. The crux of each band is its "leader," who is 
 usually determined by the guy who pushed the button first. Custom characters can only play one 
 instrument, and if the character that the leader created isn't being used, the band can't play 
 at all. Getting everything set up correctly typically involves a lot of signing in and out of profiles 
 and backing in and out of menus. Adding and removing members from existing bands is also needlessly 
 complex, meaning that the game's owner is likely to have many different bands with different combinations 
 of players saved to his/her profile, meaning many different Band World Tour campaigns to keep track 
 of.
  
  Worse yet, the songs that can be played during Quickplay non-Band World Tour sessions are only 
 those unlocked by the 360 or PS3 profile that the leader is using; if one of the "guests" is the 
 leader, well, that band better get used to playing Weezer's "Say It Aint So" a lot. An "unlock 
 all songs" code is floating around the net, but people who open this up for the first time at parties 
 are likely to be disappointed by how few songs are initially available.
  
  The list of playable tracks on the disc eventually pans out to 45 licensed tracks and 13 "Bonus" 
 tracks from local/fictional bands (including the hilariously awesome "Timmy and the Lords of the 
 Underworld" of South Park fame) . The list spans many genres of rock, like metal (Metallica, Iron 
 Maiden) , country rock (Molly Hatchet, The Outlaws) , punk (The Ramones, Fall Out Boy) , progressive 
 (Coheed and Cambria, Rush) , garage (The Strokes, The Hives) , pop (Hole, Garbage) , and general rock 
 (The Who, Smashing Pumpkins, Blue Oyster Cult, Jet, The Killers, etc.) .
  
  The track lists of the Guitar Hero series are often criticized for satisfying no one by trying 
 to satisfy everyone, and the on-disc songs for "Rock Band" are just as guilty of this. Realizing 
 this, Harmonix has an extensive schedule of downloadable songs in place. Need more metal? Download 
 the three-song Metallica pack. Not enough punk? Download some more Ramones, Clash, and All-American 
 Rejects. Better yet, unlike the structure of downloadable songs for Guitar Hero 3, users are allowed 
 to download these songs individually rather instead of being forced to purchase packs of three, 
 all of which the user may or may not want. The downloaded songs become applied to every mode in 
 the game, including Band World Tour. 
  With three new songs being released online every week, and the promise of full albums for download, 
 every unique owner of Rock Band has the opportunity to mold the game into whatever they want, based 
 on their favorite artists and genres. Think of Rock Band as more of a platform for downloadable 
 music a-la iTunes (though all of the downloading can currently only be done through Xbox Live Marketplace 
 or the PlayStation Store, not through the game's native interface) .
  
  Some key differences separate RB from GH during actual gameplay. Obtaining Overdrive works exactly 
 like acquiring Star Power in GH, but each member can activate their Overdrive simultaneously to 
 create monstrously big score multiplier. Overdrive also acts as life support; if one member fails 
 out, another can bring him/her back into the song up to 2 times by activating Overdrive.
  
  Once drummers have enough Overdrive to release, when a logical end to the beat approaches, all 
 of the notes are replaced by a "fill section" that allow the drummer to hit whichever pads they 
 want. Hitting the green cymbal note at the end of the fill section activates the Overdrive. Singers 
 activate it by saying whatever they want into the microphone (like "Whoo," "Yeah," or... "Bacon!") 
 during the gaps where the song has no lyrics.
  
  Some songs end with "big rock endings" that allow each member to go completely nuts on whichever 
 instrument is in hand. Nail the final notes, and the band earns a last-second score bonus; miss 
 any of them, and all of the points built up in the big rock ending disappear. The game will even 
 highlight which members of the band missed, giving players ample time to heckle them and kick them 
 out of the band.
  
  Rock Band is a simply massive game, both in physical size and in quantity of game content. Anyone 
 with an affinity for rock music (read: everyone on the planet) owes it to themselves to try this 
 game out with a group of friends. The purchase at the store may set back your bank account for 
 a while, but the good times that Rock Band offers with the right people is priceless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtressbro
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  This game rocks so hard, it's a boulder. Like as hard as a --- So Play this game cuz it rocks so 
 bad hard omg ROCK CROCK ROCK BOCK ARE U WITH US U BOCK ROC KROCK ROCK Theres so many instruments 
 and they all rock so much drums guitar bass vocals RUN TO THE HIIILLLLLLSSSSSS! OH JEAAHTYYAHHHHH!!!!!!! 
 RUN FOR YOUR LIVE! QAAASDSS!!!!!! Thats the stuff right there! PLAY THIS GAME! WEEKLY DLC! GREAT 
 TRACKS! BEER! FREEBIRD AINT GOT NOTHIN ON GREEN GRASS AND HIGH TIDES!!!!!!! SEE THAT CAPS LOCK 
 KEY? YEAH RIGHT NEXT TO THE A KEY. PRESS IT AND EXCLAIM THE AWESOMENESS OF THIS GAME. THIS GAME 
 DOESNT EVEN NEED A LEGIT REVIEW. IT JUST NEEDS IDIOTS SCREAMING ITS AWESOMENESS IN ALL CAPS. NUF 
 SAID! AS I SAID: OOOOOOO OOOHHHHHHHHH HHHHHH YYYYYYYY YYYEEEEEEEEEEEAAAAA AAAAAAAAAHHH HHHHH HHHHH! 
 THIS GAME ROOOO OOOOOOOOOCC CCCCCC CCCKKKK KKKKKKKKS SSSSSSS SSSS SSSSSSS OOOOO OOOOOOO HAAARR 
 RRRDD DDD! IT ROCKS 800 characters hard!!! !!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!! YESSSSS SSS SSSSS! PS buy the game 
 it's actually really good and worth the price tag. Forgive my little outburst of YOU WANT WEEKLY 
 DLC?!!?!?! YOU WANT IT NOW!?!?!? DO YA? DO YA!?!?! YOU GOT IT RIGHT NOWWWWWWW!!!! OH YEAH! (smashes 
 a chair over the head of a passer-by) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezzat30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is every wannabe musician's dream. A game that takes the four key instruments one needs 
 to make a band a rock band (guitar, bass, drums, vocals) , and builds a highly playable and intensely 
 addictive game around them. To a degree, developer Harmonix got a head start on the process of 
 creating Rock Band when it developed the first two Guitar Hero games, but whereas those games were 
 all about the decidedly solo act of severe simulated shredding, Rock Band goes in an entirely different 
 direction. The solo play has taken a backseat to cooperative multiplayer. This game is all about 
 the act of performance as a band, getting a group of four people together and working together 
 to get the highest score bonuses possible as a group, all while fake guitaring and realistically 
 singing and drumming your way through more than 40 different licensed rock hits. The steep $170 
 price tag for the game and bundled hardware might prove to be a barrier for entry for some, and 
 in addition, the hardware itself comes with a few flaws. But if you're willing to make the investment, 
 Rock Band is a guaranteed good time for any music lover, and one of the best party games you'll 
 ever play. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crownhim
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  ROCK BAND rocks! This game took the best part of Guitar Hero and added drums and Karaoke. 
  
  The music on ROCK BAND is great and you can download more cool songs. Most of the songs are 
 just like the originals. 
  
  The difficultly settings are pretty standard except the jump between medium and hard is sometimes 
 too much. They could have made the gap smaller and made the gap between hard and expert larger.
 
  
  ROCK BAND reaches a new audience of gamers. Women who never played first person shooter might love 
 this game. You don't have to be musically inclined, although it helps. Children and adults enjoy 
 it as well.
  
  This game has taken multiplayer to a new level. If you get tired of playing drums switch to singing 
 or bass guitar. You can play through songs over and over. The difficulty settings and variety creates 
 endless hours of fun cooperative game play. You can even try singing and playing at the same time. 
 
  
  The audience responds to your game play. They will boo you as you starting messing up or cheer 
 your successes.
  
  The guitar playing is easier than Guitar Hero but the concept is the same.
  
  The only issues 
 the game has are the delay with certain TVs. This can frustrate you if you are hitting the notes 
 on time with the music and the game says you are missing them. Just adjust the settings or find 
 another TV.
  
  The other draw back is the cost, but consider what you are getting. A mic, drum set, and two guitars 
 as well as hours and hours of game play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LudaToke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is by far one of the most fun games on the 360 to date. The feeling you get when you 
 kick out a jam with someone on the mic, guitar and drums is amazing. No other game on the 360 allows 
 such a wide age range to jump in and play together. This is a game where parents can play with 
 their kids or husbands and wives can play together and everyone is having a great time. This is 
 a great game to invite friends over and play. The social aspect of Rock Band really allows it to 
 shine. There is a beefy track list with some great artists and songs. The DLC will keep Rock Band 
 fresh for a long time to come. The only negative that I found with the game is that not all the 
 songs are available if you play through on easy. The complete list of tracks is only available 
 on medium or higher. For someone like me where Rock Band is their first taste of the music/rhythm 
 genre, it can be too difficult to jump right into medium. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMan2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  First, let me get it out of the way: this game was released too early. It's clear the peripherals 
 were not fully tested and virtually all of them are prone to breaking. With drums (especially the 
 bass pedal) and guitars it's really just a matter of when, not if, they will break. EA has stepped 
 up and will ship replacements with virtually no questions asked... but it's still pretty frustrating 
 when you feel that bass pedal start to crack as you and your bandmates are ripping through Paranoid. 
 My guess is virtually all peripherals will be completely updated within six months. 
  
  Other than that, however.... this game is simply awesome. It's much more than Guitar Hero (which, 
 despite its massive popularity, faces a dicey future when compared directly to RB) . I believe RB 
 will not be considered a game in the future, but a music delivery system, a platform for artists 
 and record labels to distribute music and introduce new musicians. There will be a time in the 
 not-too-distant future when kids will wonder what it was like to only LISTEN to music and not be 
 able to play along with it. Shelf space at my local Best Buy was about a 40-60 split between GH/RB 
 and CDs this Christmas. By next year I expect those ratios to flip and within 5 years CDs will 
 be virtually gone with an entire section devoted to music / rhythm games, their peripherals and 
 various additions (such as custom guitar faceplates) . This will be a cash-cow for developers, hardward 
 companies and savvy artists (imagine, a new revenue source for the music biz!) ..
  
  Why? Because it's just so much damn fun. Guitar Hero is a fave of mine, but there is simply no 
 comparing playing GH by yourself to you and four friends striving to five star Highway Star on 
 Hard. It FEELS like you really are playing with a band, despite the fact you're still just playing 
 a game. The clear manner in which the game encourages and enables you to save (and be saved by) 
 your bandmates is the height of co-op play. The frantic big endings are pure adrenaline rush. The 
 squabbles over which song to play or who gets to play which instrument sure feel like being in 
 a band. The avatars you get to customize allow you to create your own rocking alter ego. It really 
 is true... the game allows you to live out your rock n' roll fantasies. 
  
  The guitar playing is pretty much like GH although much more forgiving than the punishing GHIII 
 or even the difficult GHII.... think GH I difficulty. Singing is pretty much like any karaoke game. 
 And drumming is like... well, drumming. The gameplay elements are all pretty standard, but combining 
 them yields a whole that is more than the sum of the parts. FInally, the best part are the "free 
 play" sections. The "star power" for singing allows you to do whatever you want... which is way 
 more fun than it sounds. I've grown to really enjoy those. For drumming, it's fills where you can 
 create any triplet or combo your heart desires. Finally, there are the big endings when all four 
 players have complete freedom and provide big bonuses.... provided all of you nail the ending. This 
 combination of fun and challenge just makes the entire thing completely addictive. 
  
  Add the huge online capabilities and you have a homerun of a game. The publisher has delivered 
 on its promise of weekly DLC updates. Best of all the songs have been top-notch with Black Sabbath, 
 Metallica, Iron Maiden, Rush, David Bowie, Queens of the Stone Age and The Police all well represented. 
 (I abhor emo so some of the offerings haven't pleased me as much... but that's kinda the point.... they 
 seem to be covering a lot of tastes with their offers) . The game starts with 73 songs... but I'm 
 already up over 90... which has kept it fresher than the GH games (GHIII's online offerings are 
 lame by comparison) . 
  
  I see a complete industry here folks. In the future we'll refer to things as BRB and ARB.... Before 
 Rock Band and After Rock Band; this game is that revolutionary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rozar505
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna be honest, I didn't expect this game to be all that great. However after 30+ minutes 
 setting Rock Band's instruments up I hoped this game would be worth setting up. It paid off in 
 the long run because the next few days this was all I played because I was addicted to it which 
 is rare for me. I would give this game a 8.5 however if you have enough buddies to take on 3 other 
 instruments it becomes the most fun party game you can ever play to date. I will say the guitar 
 controller in crap because after a while when you strum down it will register as a double strum. 
 The guitar problem can be fixed by using a Guitar Hero controller or send it in to EA who will 
 replace the guitar controller free of charge. With downloadable songs on Live and it's great multipplayer 
 co-op this game is going to be around for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreakLink
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a game by Harmonix and MTV Games which allows you to start a band and play any instrument 
 you like with up to 4 people!
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  The Graphics in Rock Band are not the most important part in the game, but they are great anyways. 
 The game uses some great camera effects like a static effect and black and white picture to make 
 it feel like you are on stage. Another positive is the variety of the clothes and venues. There 
 are so many clothing options that are all unique and look equally detailed. The venues this time 
 around are easy to tell apart as they all have specific details that make them memorable. Those 
 are the positives of the graphics in the game.
  
  Sound (Soundtrack & Technical) 10/10
  The Sound in Rock Band is probably the most important part of the game, and it definately doesn't 
 fail, The soundtrack in Rock Band is the best soundtrack for a rythm game ever. It's even better 
 because the soundtrack features the best songs for guitar, bass, drums, and vocals which helps 
 make the multiplayer more enjoyable, but I'll get into that later. Now onto the Technical part 
 of the sound in the game. The technical sound is great in this game because it features the average 
 sounds when going through menus but the biggest positive is it doesn't make an annoying sound when 
 you miss a note. That is the sound aspect of the game.
  
  Replay Value 9.5/10
  The Replay Value in Rock Band is great for many reasons. The best part of the Replay Value is the 
 Multiplayer. The Multiplayer is great because it allows four friends to come together and form 
 a band. This is improved on with the soundtrack which is perfect for each instrument. The only 
 minor drawback on Replay Value is after you complete Single Player Band Tour with each instrument 
 on every difficulty you pretty much have nothing to do but play with friends, but that never gets 
 old so it's not to major. Those are the positives and negatives to the Replay Value of Rock Band.
 
  
  Conclusion 9.5/10
  In the end Rock Band earns 9.5/10 for it's great graphics, sound, and multiplayer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Well i got the game on Christmas and i love it so much. There is so much to do, and i have only 
 done about half of it. It has Guitar Tour on Easy, Medium, Hard, and Expert. Also Drum Tour on 
 Easy, Medium, Hard, Expert, along with Vocals on easy, medium, hard and expert. There is also another 
 added feature called band world tour. This is probably the most exciting part of the game because 
 you can get up to 4 players to play on all of the instruments and play songs over and over again. 
 It is so cool. I have beaten the band world tour after days and days of playing and still doing 
 it. There is also score duels, and tug of wars. It is also very good. I have completed easy, medium, 
 hard guitar tours. I am also halfway through guitar tour on expert. In drums i have beaten the 
 tour on easy and almost done on medium. Vocals i have finished it on easy. Band World Tour i have 
 finished which had taken too long to try and do. Days of hours of playing. It was awesome. No game 
 could ever top how awesome this one is, and nothing could be better. If you are looking for a new 
 game that will keep you hooked for a really really long time, then this is the game that you would 
 want to buy. If you are caught between how much it is for the special edition bundle for $160, 
 or the game just for $60. Believe me, it is worth it for the special edition because seperately 
 it would come to $240 and you save a whole $80. And everything that comes in the special bundle 
 is terrific. The stratocaster guitar, the drum set, drum sticks, the microphone, and the game of 
 course. It is a good buy, and terrific game. Dont ever give up the offer to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordanbijl
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Rock band is one of those amazing releases that comes once in a while, its fairly unique, to have 
 one part guitar hero, one part kereoka, and one part, mmm, drum hero?
  
  Essentially what rock band is a mixture of one of 3 games in one, you can either play guitar, do 
 vocals or play drums to one of 58? songs, start a band and play do songs for points and see who 
 really is the best "computerized musician"
  
  Rock band trys to simulate the concert experience more than the actually musical instrument playing, 
 except for the drums which is almost authentic but still could use a little work.
  
  It comes with a price though, 170 bucks canadian, for all 3 controllers, and let me tell you, these 
 are some of the cheapest things ever produced for a game, the parts are cheap and easily break, 
 but I guess if you use them like your supposed to they should last (IE: REAL drumming is play very 
 softly, not beating the crap out of it) 
  
  Now coming from a muscians point of view (I play have been playing drums for 5 years, guitar for 
 6 and doing vocals for more than 11 years) 
  the game doesn't actually represent most of the instruements (sans the vocals) but if it did, then 
 most people wouldn't be able to play the game unless they knew the songs. Being a drummer, I will 
 now bash the drumkit. starting with the difficulty, it is a fairly easy instrument to play on rock 
 band, you just have to get used to it, real drumming requires you to count in your head to keep 
 timing and if your off a little it doesn't matter as long as your in time with the rest of your 
 band mates it doesn't matter, but rock band has to become so precise that its near impossible to 
 pick it up, I even had to go through the tutorial on rock band and I play drums!
  Once you pick up on the preciseness of the drums, it gets alot easier and playing on hard difficulties 
 gets more authentic but still doesn't seem quite like playing drums, 
  also the lack of double kick pedal makes me laugh, I play double kick and it would be awesome if 
 they put that option in the future.
  
  The drums are the funniest part of the game, but it comes with a price, the drums are very cheap, 
 parts on it are plastic, so even if you tap the kit, it still will eventually break.
  
  The guitar is the 2nd easiest thing to use, the guitar has been redesigned from the guitar hero 
 guitars, instead of holding the strum bar down, you actually have to hit it on every note, which 
 makes it feel a little better...
  the only issue with the guitar is in the first week it will break, there is no question about it, 
 and ea games wants a credit card number from canadians to get it fixed, the sending a box thing 
 is only from america, which kind of sucks and I know they will get alot of complaints about that.
 
  
  The vocals are pretty fun, and the easiest thing, its pretty simple to match your vocals up with 
 it, and you don't even have to say the right lyrics, so making fun of a song is highly necessary, 
 and luckily online you can't hear any one sing, so people won't be too ebaressed.
  
  The song list is pretty decent alot of oldies in the roster, some black sabbath, iron maiden, rolling 
 stones, deep purple, and some good modern bands like soundgarden, nirvana, queens of the stone 
 age, and then some songs that I don' t really like but will play to anyway, I dont like some of 
 the emoish songs they chose, but its very little that they did choose.... 
  
  Lets face it, rock band has the potential to be a huge game, it has mutiplayer and allows guests 
 (which has been quite lacking in games latly) over xbox live, but no band tour mode with xbox live, 
 which kind of sucks, but thats ok. The game is very customizable, you can create a character that 
 usually always looks the same based on what you like your character to look like, and once you 
 beat the game, on all difficulties it will get boring (sans the marketplace) 
  
  all in all rock band is one of the funniest gaming experiences I have ever had, never has such 
 a game try and capture the concert experience so well, and make you really believe that you are 
 some kind of rock star, though dont get your head up your arse, 
  even if you can play this game on expert, your still not even close to become a muscian... 
  
 I still rather play a real instrument than rock band, but when Im bored and have nothing better 
 to do, rock band is where I go.
  
  
  Pros: Awesome song selection, fun mutiplayer, guest feature!, customization, it has rush in it!, 
 all the instruments are fun to play,
  you cant hear other people sing over xbox live...
  
  Cons: The instruments are very cheaply made, some of the songs don't fit (erm the emo songs, 
 forget the names of them) , no xbox live band tour mode, the drums take a while to get used to, 
 even if your a good drummer! 
  no option to turn the vocals on or off on xbox live (some people can be good singers, and I want 
 to hear them) , everyone who plays the game assumes they are muscians (unless they actually are 
 then its different) ... 
  
  price : $178.00 canadian (includes drum kit guitar and vocal mic, usb hub)
  worth it : sure!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamehead8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the makers of this game and there are so many song to go along with the ability 
 to create your own band in World Tour mode, where you can play with friends on your 360. But to 
 the amazingness there are some drawbacks. I got this game on christmas and i started to play the 
 guitar with the Fender version, but i realized that i couldnt release Overdrive (starpower for 
 you GH people) so i had to w8 til Best Buy got in some new ones 2 weeks later. And the only other 
 bad thing is that you CAN and CAN ONLY play on your 360 NOT across Xbox live, which was what i 
 was looking forward to but i will never get that chance since all my friends are achievement whores 
 and just want to play on their 360. What great friends i have. P. S. I think this problem is happening 
 on the PS3, so dont think that they are two different games, because they aren't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: See_Brandon_358
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is everything I imagined as I played guitar hero 1 in like 2004. I thought oh they should 
 have the dums and vocals. and make a bass option. then I played Guitar hero 2 and the bass really 
 was a great thought but I would have just preffered them to work harder on the rythm guitar for 
 that one. 
  I finally found out about rock band and I knew GH3 was coming out also I thought what will be better, 
 and I knew in my head that Rock band was going to put guitar hero in it's place.... in my mind. 
 
  
  I hear people complain about the guitar being delayed but I don't really have that problem, I think 
 if I was playing on expert I might. the drums are really hard maybe a little unbalanced with the 
 other instruments. I love to sing on vocals, and I don't think I'm good but when I sing with friends 
 and I decide that I want to switch instruments, they all grip theirs tighter and say "no" your 
 doing just fine. 
  
  
  SO the entire performance with 1-4 people is finally possible with Rock band and a lot of people 
 are putting down Guitar Hero. 
  
  Some reasons people hold onto GH and dislike rock band are that....
  A) too easy guitar-Understandable
 
  B) they think it's too embarassing with singers- I guess so
  C) they tell me that it sucks and it looks stupid
  
  and I guess with reason C it tells us 
 that we are playing plastic instruments, why do we have to go this far to play plastice buttons- 
 totally understandable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefan2000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Rock Band really surprised me when it was announced by former Guitar Hero developers Harmonix and 
 MTV Games. Then it turned out to be one of the best games of 2007. I'm not saying that Guitar Hero 
 III was bad, it just didn't really shock me as Rock Band did. Rock Band contains a microphone (for 
 singing) , a drum set (for drumming) and a guitar based on the Fender Stratocaster (for guitaring, 
 if that's a word) . All the instruments came in great shape for me (well, yeah if they don't then 
 EA will replace them) . I found all parts of the game fun, but the drumming is really hard at first. 
 If you're wanting to be the drummer in Rock Band, take a deep breath and say your prayers, because 
 the drumming is HARD. I failed a song miserably on Easy... : ( Anyway on the Xbox 360 version you 
 can do Band Quickplay online which is a blast. No Band World Tour online though. Sad face. Anyway 
 the songs in Rock Band are great, ranging from The Police, to Metallica, to David Bowie, to even 
 Bon Jovi. My personal favorite is "I'm So Sick" by the rock band Flyleaf. Just don't ask me to 
 sing it. Because I'll make your ears bleed if you hear me singing it. Anyway Rock Band is a great 
 game and you must buy it. Or play it.
  
  Xbox Live Gamertag: Linkdude678 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evan585619
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  I Have only had Rock Band for about a week now and im already loving it! I play it every day and 
 with more than one person usually. Its multipplayer is much better than the other games (hint hint 
 nudge nudge begins with a g and ends with a 3) . this game also has very strongmultiplayer like 
 band world tour for example. its highly addictive and lets u travel the world. very fun. Also Rock 
 Band has a fairly strong solo carreer for drums, giutar and singing. But it is more fun to play 
 multiplayer.
  
  the guitar is like gh when its high. it has an extra set of frets for solos, so u dont have to 
 strum. it also has and effects switcher which lets you do effects like wawah, flanger, echo and chorus. the 
 drums are absolutely insane. they are really fun and hvae 4 pads and a kik pedal (bass drum) . the 
 singing is like singstar.
  
  you should also note that the guitar is much easier than gh so u may want to get gh if your just 
 into guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason4774
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  Got this game for X-Mas, with the sole intention of getting everyone in my family to play together. 
 And even my cynical little sister, who hates games, sang a song or two!
  
  Loads of fun! Played both Rock Band and Guitar Hero 3, and while I like the controller in GH3 better, 
 the songs are more fun to play in Rock Band. The better you play, and the crowd starts singing 
 along! It's seriously hard to explain, but that alone, makes me want to nail every song! It's very 
 elating.
  
  Played real guitar for many years, so comparing real guitar to fake guitar is silly, and needless.
 
  
  However, the drums are insane. Outside of being a small kit, the drumlines on these songs on the 
 hardest difficulty are note for note perfect. One might as well consider getting a real kit if 
 they can play songs like "Cherub Rock" or "Tom Sawyer" on highest. Makes you even appreciate the 
 driving rhythm on songs that never seemed that difficult to play on drums (Orange Crush comes to 
 mind.) Even on easy, people not used to the drums, can have a hard time with it. It was the instrument 
 most of my family and friends stay away from, which is fine, cause I actually enjoy it the most.
 
  
  Solo modes are fun, but the game really become a new experience with band mode. And, even people 
 who hate games will play, if they watch everyone else having fun with it long enough.
  
  Serious fun. Just want to get one more controller for the bass, so I can have a full band playing 
 at any time.
  
  Once Harmonix fleshes this songlist out (which apparently, 5 record labels have agreed to help 
 them do) , it wouldn't surprise me at all if this game became the new karaoke for drunk adults on 
 weekends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeYankee555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a game I have anticipated for a long time. I wasn't lucky enough to get it before 
 Christmas but have played it for hours or days in playtime. Starting out with the music; The music 
 in the game is one of the best I'v heard above all of the guitar hero songs lists. Adding on to 
 the songs on the game you can buy songs from Xbox Live.
  The usual guitar is included with the game which is good if you like just playing guitar in which 
 case you don't just need to buy the game (you can use the GH3 or GH2 guitar) . 
  The new aspect of the game are great too such as sing and playing drums. If your a good singer 
 and can easily recingnize tones then you will do great. 
  Drums are the most difficult aspect of the game. Expecilly if you have no history with drums in 
 real life. After a little practice the four drum heads can be second nature but what becomes problmatic 
 on hard, and Expert is the bass pedel. the fast quick simonsanious hits can really cause problems 
 when try to pass a song. 
  All aspects of the game are a great experince, but all great things have a chach. The hardware 
 is a little fulty. The guitars have problems with the strum bar. The bass pedel on drums is easy 
 to break if you hit it to hard or hit in the center which causes it to bend and eventualy snap. 
 
  No matter what the game is great and one of the best in gameing history and I can't wait for another 
 one and more songs . This is the best of the Best 9.5. Should be a 10 but Ea step up the Quality.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_ObSeSsIoN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Holy S**T!! this game is amazing, every instrument is extremely fun. Lets start with guitar, now obviously 
 the notes for guitar come more slowly ,but that doesnt mean the guitar sucks, the finger-tapping (which 
 is a set of smaller numbers at the beginning of the neck used for solos, you dont even have to strum 
 on the finger tap.) If you think the notes go too slowly, just be smart and play on hard or expert. Next 
 is singing, all you have to do for singing is say the words, which it tells you, after that all tou 
 have to do is match the tone. Finally the drums, personally, my favorite instrument in Rock Band, it 
 is also the most realistic instrument in Rock Band, the drums contain a foot pedal (just like real 
 drums) and four plates to hit with the drumsticks, the foot pedal is an orange line that appears 
 on the note pad, the Rock Bamd drums actually make yoou better at real drums (I know because I play 
 real drums, and since I got Rock Band, Ive gotten way better at drums.) The price might be a little 
 high, but trust me, it is worth it your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeTheSnake312
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix took music games to a new level a few years back with their Guitar Hero series. It actually 
 made rhythm a genre because at the time the only thing close to a music game was Dance Dance Revolution. 
 It was kind of like that, but for rockers.
  
  Rock Band takes their old Guitar Hero franchise one step further with four instruments to play. 
 Guitar Hero II hinted at this with co-op bass guitar or rhythm guitar, but it really wasn't that 
 fun since whoever was playing lead guitar was the only one having fun. Rock Band keeps the bass 
 guitar and also adds the drums and singing. The Rock Band bundle comes with a Fender Stratocaster 
 Guitar, a drum set, and a microphone if you get the bundle, which I would highly recommend that 
 you do.
  
  When you play lead or bass guitar, its basically the same as Guitar Hero. Notes scroll down and 
 you press the proper fret button along with strumming and you hit the notes. When you hit more 
 notes consecutively, your score multiplier doubles and you score more points. Theres also Overdrive 
 notes that when they fill up, you tilt your guitar upwards and activate it making the crowd love 
 you and your score multiplier doubles. (Think Guitar Hero's star power.) The new Stratocaster guitar 
 is much different than the Guitar Hero models. The first thing you'll notice is 5 more fret buttons 
 at the bottom of the guitar which can be used to tap your solos while playing lead guitar. It is 
 nice, but when you try to move your hand from the top fret buttons to the bottom, you'll end up 
 missing a lot of notes, especially on higher difficulties. Another thing that GH vets will notice 
 is the strum bar feels weird. It no longer clicks and sticks down a little bit making it hard to 
 repeatedly strum down. The fret buttons are also raised up off the guitar so pushing them down 
 is easier and faster. There's also an effects switcher which just changes the sound of the guitar 
 when you use your overdrive.
  
  Bass guitar is largely unchanged from Guitar Heroes II and III. You play sort of a dumbed down 
 version of lead guitar and theres hardly any crazy parts or chords or anything. Every once in a 
 while you might find a crazy bass song, but its really nothing. There isn't even a single player 
 mode for it.
  
  The Drums are probably the most exciting part of Rock Band. It comes with 4 pads and a bass pedal. 
 Just like guitar, the notes scroll down and you'll have to hit the correct pads or bass when they 
 come. The drums actually make real noise so you'll probably be able to keep everyone else on tempo, 
 unless of course you suck. On Hard an expert you're playing real drum patterns for the most part 
 and you'll find some crazy drum patterns on the harder songs.
  
  Singing is for the person that sucks at everything. You'll see the words on the screen and some 
 lines. You have to sing the words along with changing your pitch to match the height of the lines. 
 It's pretty simple for the most part although it might be hard for some to reach those high notes 
 on expert.
  
  There are a few modes of play in Rock Band. You've got your single player for drums, guitar, and 
 singing. Just like Guitar Hero, you'll play a bunch of songs in tiers from easy to hard until you 
 beat it, nothing special there. You've also got your quick play and band quick play which are pretty 
 self explanatory. Then theres Band World Tour, and thats what makes Rock Band so special.
  
  Band World Tour is a mode which requires two or more people, so you better get some friends 
 if you don't have any. Basically you get 2-4 people and you make your own rockers, and play through 
 songs. You'll start out in small clubs and advance to rock shows. You'll earn stars that will get 
 you more fans and venues. You'll also earn money which will allow you to buy many accessories for 
 your rocker including clothes and instruments. You keep playing BWT until you get into the hall 
 of fame, and you can keep playing after; it's endless. Unfortunately you can't play this online 
 at this point but let's hope they will change that at some point.
  
  The greatest part of Rock Band is playing with more people. It's the co-op that Guitar Hero failed 
 to perfect. It feels like you're actually working together. You can bring back failed members with 
 overdrives and help each other through difficult parts and it's just so awesome.
  
  The sound track in Rock Band is probably one of the greatest licensed tracks ever. It's got everything 
 from classic rock to heavy metal. What little covers there are in the game are superb. Whoever 
 did the vocals to Run to the Hills did a great job at mimicking Bruce Dickinson. There's even a 
 lot of new downloadable songs so you can get more Metallica and more Black Sababth.
  
  If you haven't figured it out yet, Rock Band is the best multiplayer experience in a long time, 
 and great for people who love music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: y0urkn1ght14
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun! The main focus is most likely the drums. Even tho it does sound like 
 just plain banging, sometimes it really sounds like a real beat. The drums are so fun! The mic, 
 i never tried yet cause my voice isn't too killer, but my friends use it all the time and they 
 love it. The guitar is my favorite, prolly cause i play guitar too, but it's so fun. If your a 
 beginner then u start with the first 3 buttons, then move up. The only thing that i don't really 
 admire is that the guitar for guitar hero is alot better. Other than that, this game is just simply 
 amazing! I recomend it for anyone who likes rythm games, and fans of guitar hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ensabehnur
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This has been one of THE most exciting games i have played to date, i think the music games like 
 Rock Band and GH have changed the whole ideal of video games and what you can do with them. It 
 is reminiscent of what you would get when you first picked up mario brothers and you realized that 
 you actions with your hands actually moved this little plumber dude. The additional content is 
 reflective of the world of today, being able to download songs on a regular basis, plus the fact 
 that the songs are new to the game it just adds that replay value as you wait for the day you get 
 to add some of your favorite songs. im still playing and as long as more songs come out, ill keep 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Made by the same makers who created Guitar Hero and GH2, Harmonix gives you Rock Band, which is 
 like Guitar Hero but with drums and a mic. Mix them with both with a guitar and bass player and 
 you've a fun party game that anyone can enjoy.
  
  I found solo tour to actually be fun. It's just like Guitar Hero where you just play a number of 
 set lists full of songs. You can do this with the guitar, drums, and the mic but not with the bass. 
 Although the guitar frets are easier and probably not as good as the ones in Guitar Hero, it's 
 still a lot of fun (and there are a few songs that get difficult, unless you're REALLY good at 
 the game) . The drums are the hardest of them all. If you're new to the game, you're probably better 
 off starting on easy, even medium can get tricky. Vocals are kind of in between, if you know the 
 song by heart you shouldn't have a problem. If you don't know the song, you'll probably have a 
 harder time. Words don't really matter, seeing as how it just counts the pitch of your voice but 
 still, helps to know the song.
  
  Solo Tour can be fun but multiplayer, or "band tour", is where the game really shifts into high 
 gear. You play using a whole band (guitarist, bassist, drummer, and singer) , choose your band name, 
 and you get to play at different cities all around the world and play like a real band. By that 
 I mean you can gain or loose fans, challenge other bands to a "rock off", win vans or tour busses 
 for your band, etc. Easily one of the best multiplayer games.
  
  Unlike Guitar Hero, you can actually create your own rocker and it's actually really cool. You 
 choose his/her face, attitude (rock, punk, goth, or metal) , name, hair, and more. You can play 
 as your rocker in both solo tour and put him/her in a band. When you complete a song, you win money 
 (in both single and multiplayer) and you can use that money to further customize your character 
 by buying him/her clothes, tattoos, face paint, or other accessories. There are just so many options 
 to choose from, the create a character is very well done.
  
  The soundtrack isn't so bad, I'm one of the few who likes the soundtrack better than Guitar Hero 
 3's. The only problem is there aren't that many songs, only 58. However, there are more songs available 
 in the Xbox Live marketplace and it's got plenty of great tracks there too.
  
  The only problem with this game is the guitar. My guitar worker for a little bit but broke by the 
 end of the day, it couldn't strum up. Luckily, Harmonix has prepared for this by letting you mail 
 it back in for a replacement. That goes for other pieces of hardware that may break. Also, if you 
 have Guitar Hero 2 or 3 already, you're in luck. Both guitars work in Rock Band.
  
  Rock Band is one of the best party games of all time and is great for anyone of any age. It's especially 
 fun for friends who want to see what it's like to play in a band. Single player can be fun but 
 it's nothing without friends playing with you. This game is a must buy and anyone who likes party 
 games or previous Guitar Hero games. You ready to rock? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheesytaco69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game was excellent! The mixture of four people playing simultaniously is awesome! The 58 pre-loaded 
 songs are awesome and the extra downloads are worth it. I've spent so much time playing this game 
 and it's only fun with other people. If you buy this game to play by yourself, you are a loser 
 that should have bought Guitar Hero. This is strictly for people with friends who aren't afraid 
 to get up and sing out their souls to songs by Bon Jovi, Metallica, Foo Fighters, Aerosmith, and 
 many others! I know that the $170 price tag is a bit steep, but it's worth it. The only downside 
 to this game was the time I got it out of the box and spent THIRTY MINUTES setting it up! But that's 
 it! I've already spent a lot of time playing and I'll be playing well into 08.
  
  Rock Band is for people with friends. 
  Guitar Hero is for losers with no friends. And no life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  For years, games like "Frequency," "Taiko Drum Master," "Guitar Hero" and "Karaoke Revolution" 
 were stalwarts in the rhythm/music genre that turned the average Joe into everything from a fret-burning 
 madman or a future American Idol. However, despite the brevity and deep gameplay options those 
 games had, gamers were always left with one question: when will everything be put together in one 
 package? Finally, that question has an answer: "Rock Band." However, despite the fact that the 
 game is arguably the epitome of what a music and party game should be, there are noticeable little 
 problems that take away from the overall fun.
  
  For instance, while the game's single player mode has various levels of difficulty, the multiplayer 
 mode, or Band World Tour doesn't and forces novice gamers to turn up the difficulty to advance 
 in the game. While a series like "Guitar Hero" is known for its extreme and sometimes punishing 
 difficulty, the purpose of "Rock Band" is obviously to get a bunch of gamers in one room for some 
 casual gaming. By forcing gamers to raise the difficulty level in order to advance, the game almost 
 alienates the casual gamer that just wants to enjoy the game with friends. Despite this however, 
 anyone comfortable with playing games like "Guitar Hero" or "Karaoke Revolution" on the hardest 
 difficulty shouldn't have a problem advancing in the game.
  
  Despite that, the biggest problem with the World Tour Mode is its rigidness. Once a band is formed, 
 the band leader has to play the instrument they started the band with, while the other members 
 of the band are free to create other characters on the same gamertag and play other instruments. 
 What this does is force one gamer to play through the extremely long mode using the same instrument. 
 Why EA would do something like that is shocking and has taken away from an otherwise strong gameplay 
 mode.
  
  However, aside from that, the biggest problem the game has is its uneven difficulty. For instance, 
 the guitar portion of the game is extremely easy up until the highest difficulty setting and the 
 bass portion of the game is an entire breeze. However, the singing portion of the game could be 
 a disaster for anyone that's never sang before and the drumming portion is insane. Having a few 
 people in your camp that actually know how to sing or play the drums is a definite must for anyone 
 serious about beating this game. Sure, novices can still play through the multiplayer part of the 
 game on easy, but don't think for one second about finishing the game.
  
  With that being said, "Rock Band" really caters specifically to the "Guitar Hero" fan who wanted 
 something different. The gameplay while using every instrument has an extremely similar feel to 
 GH and has a luster and polish only a small amount of multiplayer titles can claim as their own. 
 Scoring unison bonuses with a bunch of friends in multiplayer is an absolute blast and the feel 
 of the instruments is spot on. Despite the feeling from many players that the guitar prepackaged 
 with the game isn't as solid as the wireless one prepackaged in "Guitar Hero III" [which is absolutely 
 true] , it is still a more than functional peripheral that gets the job done. The drum set and microphone 
 are also extremely solid and do a great job of making the gamer feel like their actually performing.
 
  
  With all the positives in this game, it's easy to forget about the uneven difficulty and the small 
 problems with the multiplayer modes. Despite those problems, "Rock Band" is still a must-own title 
 for any wannabe musician that has dreamed of being under the spotlight. It's just not perfect.
 
  
  -By Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miles13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:11 am PT
Review:  Ever wondered what its like to play in front of 10,000 screaming people... well this is kind of 
 close. Rock band has a very addicting gameplay, especially the multi player aspect of it. With 
 gameplay very similar to guitar hero, it isn't that hard to catch on. The drums is one of the most 
 fun, even though with a little alcohol singing can be quite a treat.
  
  There are some bad parts of the game though, the price is the $170 range. Also the guitar isn't 
 as sturdy as you would think, like in the guitar hero games.
  
  Overall this is one of the most fun you'll have playing a video game with a group of people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fer212007
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:32 am PT
Review:  whoa this game really make me sing and thats is a problem my dad was looking for a knive i dont 
 noo why but here is my review
  
  graphics=beautifull art style and tecnically great making it the best looking music game of all 
 time
  
  sound=gourgeus soundtrack really makes me like more the game 
  is much better than guitar hero2 sountrack
  
  gameplay=amazing the same beautifull gameplay 
 from guitar hero th singing is amazing the drums are hilarious and the guitar its much more easy 
 than guitar hero but its still feels great
  
  solo band tour=addictive in every part of the word but reppeting the songs in the band tour really 
 make you scream
  
  entertaining=entertaining like hell this is fu%^&* awsome
  
  value= until youl died
  
  THE PROS=AMAZING ART AND TECNICALLI GRAPHICS, THE BEST SOUNDTRACK 
 EVER, PERFECT BALANCED GAMEPLAY, IMPOSIBLE TO PUT IT DOWN'
  
  THE CONS=REPEAT THE SONGS IS A REAL BLAME, WHE I BUY THE GAME MY GUITAR WAS BROKEN
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heixn-IxI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I myself don't have to actual game (Costs an arm and al let) , luckily my friend has an extra arm 
 and leg to dispose of so I got to play it a few days ago.
  
  All I can say, GET THIS GAME NOW WHEN YOU GROW AN EXTRA ARM/LEG. It goes beyond what Guitar Hero 
 3 did, customizable band, characters, intruments, and great formula of teamplay and solo play make 
 it a MUST for any party. Pool some money together with your friends, saw off someones arm or something. 
 GET THIS GAME.
  
  Pros: Awesome gameplay, Great to play at parties
  
  Cons: A bit boring by yourself, Price of the instruments, drums are surprisingly hard for anyone 
 who hasn't touched a drum in their life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calui
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a game developed by the makers of guitar hero, and it is naturally pretty similar 
 to Guitar Hero. But it differs in some important ways, and offers a full band instead of just the 
 guitar. The whole package includes a drum set, a microphone, and a guitar. The guitar part is basically 
 exactly the same as guitar hero, except way easier. I didn't fail a single song on expert, probablly 
 because I can get 82% on Through the Fire and Flames on Expert, and I have already beaten guitar 
 hero 3 on expert. The guitar part is somewhat dissapointing, but the drums and singing make up 
 for it. The drums is really fun and addictive to play. It is also quite challenging requring you 
 to hit all four pads and use the kick a lot even on easy. I also really like on the drums how you 
 have to slam on all four colors then finish hitting green to activate star power. I played the 
 drums for hours straight and they still didn't get old. It will also take you awhile to get good 
 on the drums. Overall the drum part is very satisfying. The singing part is really good as well. 
 It is pretty deep how you not only have to sing, but also constantly change pitch to sing the notes. 
 The solo tours are good solid fun, but the game really shines when you have 2-4 people playing. 
 It's just so much fun when you and your friends are rocking out to the songs, while your playing 
 the guitar, someone's singing and then someone's playing the drums. The band world tour is much 
 deeper and much more intriguing than the guitar her mulitplayer. Each person can select their own 
 difficulty, and by doing well you gain lots of fans, but if you do poorly just once you will loose 
 lots of fans. There are a lot of cities you have to tour, and a lot of things to play. The Band 
 World Tour is quite lengthy and so much fun throughout. Rock Band also has solid online play, but 
 nothing special. It basically copies guitar hero's face off and pro face off, and the only thing 
 that is different is that you get to choose your instrument. You can play Band quickplay online, 
 but no Band World Tour which is a bit dissapointing. Even though Rock Band is the best rhythm game 
 ever, and probably the best party game ever, it still has a few little annoying problems. The guitar 
 solo tour is not much fun, even on expert, the song selection could be better with some not so 
 popular and boring songs, the online play could be imrproved, and the game costs 170 bucks which 
 is a lot of money. But if you're willing to pay the money, you will find Rock Band to be a highly 
 addictive and fun game for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Rock Band does something different combining the fun orginality of Guitar Hero with a new formula, 
 drums, vocals, and bass all toghther at the same time. If your reading this you probley already 
 know all about Rock Band and I'm not going to go into detail describing how everything works, but 
 I am going to tell you how they pull it all off. The instruments feel really good and the drums 
 can take a beating, the microphone feels even better than a Singstar or American Idol mic, but 
 the guitar is one of or the only flaw in Rock Band. First of all the developers must have thought 
 looks are better than quality, because now the fret buttons are integrated in the neck so that 
 makes things harder, second of all the strum bar breaks very easily and trust me I was being careful 
 from the start. 
  Yes, some of the hardware isn't great but the gameplay itself feels soild altough the game is very 
 easy and almost pointless in solo mode do to the setlist. About everuthing else feels good and 
 in place. Rock Band is great, but I've been playing Guitar Hero 2 right when it came out and I 
 prefer the song's that challenge your skills like Jordan or TTFAF. Rock Band focuses on great songs 
 that are great on drums, vocals, and guitar. Still great but it needs a little work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0dazubeN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  It started with Guitar Hero. Harmonix started their series a while back and it is now a sensation 
 among gamers and has left it's name in pop culture history. Now they have started something new 
 with ROCK BAND, the new experience that makes you feel like you want to rock off your rocker. 
 
  
  Not much is new with the peripherals guitar wise. There is a new set of buttons at the bottom but 
 those are really not too necessary and I never end up using them. But thats okay because the Guitar 
 has enough new stuff to make you see that it isn't a guitar hero rip off or something silly.
  
  The Drums are really cool with their own style and a fulfillment of your primal need to hit 
 the crap out of something. It's fun and hard to get into when you haven't drummed before. That 
 makes it even better because it's a challenge. My only problem is that there is no double bass 
 pedal or the ability to get another one. Which makes metallica songs a real pain.
  
  Along with that you have the Microphone which in of itself doesn't sound fun but it really becomes 
 the life of the party, partly because everyone plays guitar hero, nothing special there, the drums 
 are usually too hard for most, so the mic is a fun and easy way to be part of the action, and the 
 center of attention usually. 
  
  The graphics are nothing to write home about but are cartoony and real enough to satisfy along 
 there with guitar hero's, you can customize your "rocker" as you see fit. Make him a punk, goth, 
 emo, metal man, psychedelic rocker, what ever you want. 
  
  There a ton of songs to choose from, mainly classic rock, alternative, and punk, so all you metal 
 heads will just have to deal, the song list is nice, maybe not as good as Guitar Hero but along 
 with that you have new songs coming out every week. Another thing thats cool is that you can take 
 your band of friends and start a tour around the world, which leads to my biggest dislike of the 
 game, the stupidity of not being able to make a band online and play with your friends via there, 
 whereas you can only do quickplay.
  
  Overall, ROCK BAND, Rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogieboy38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band, well... ROCKS. I got this game Christmas Morning and have been playing since. I guess 
 the best way to review the game is to discuss each instrument. First, lead guitar, it has the same 
 premise as all guitar hero games except the gameplay is a little easier and the guitar looks different. 
 This new Rock Band exclusive Fender Stratacaster has another set of frets near the body of the 
 guitar and there's a effect changer switch. Moving on to bass, bass is probably the simplest of 
 all the instruments. Not much to say about it except make sure the person playing it is mellow 
 not hyper. Drumming is basically drumming, you have four drum pads and a kick pedal. Some people 
 will be amazed at how the hard and expert levels of drumming are so much like actually playing 
 the drums. Vocals are like any kareoke game. You have to sing the right words at the right pitch 
 to play. This game rocks and I urge anyone owning an Xbox 360 to buy it ( despite the high price 
 ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is awsome. I'm very good at the drums and decent at the guitar. I suck totaly at the 
 mike. Couple of common problems people need to be aware of. First is GH guitars sometimes dont 
 work with it, even though it says they do. Next thing is when you buy it, theres like a good chance 
 something wont work with it. For example my friend got it first, the strum on his guitar wouldnt 
 work down, and hes not left handed so he had to send it back to get fixed. I got mine, the mike 
 didn't work at all so I had to send that back, my cuz got it and his drums were smashed in the 
 box so.. yep he had to send back. But two of my other friends got it and theres work fine so its 
 not all of them just some of them. The game is really addictive and great for partys and such. 
 Good for people who like rock music and play video games. Recomend buying but just be prepaired 
 to send it back =p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Its singstar, Its Guitar Hero, Its MORE! This game is revolutionary when it comes to music games. 
 It combines the old, guitar, microphone. With new, Bass, DRUMS!!!
  
  You cant beat the classics, but this game comes pretty darn close.
  This game is something good, 
 something old, and something new. I honestly think drums is the best part of the game.
  
  The multiplayer is great. I have three brothers and a gh3 guitar so we all play 4 player. The game 
 is great!
  
  However, it is not perfect.
  -the notes are too hard to hit, you have to precise
  -footpedal too hard
  -my guitar broke 
 the day i got it :- (
  -behind what you are playing, the cutscene behind you lags insanely, but that is the style, but 
 not a good style.
  
  If you like rythm games, you have to get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redredkroovy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is by far the best rhythm game out right now. It has an outstanding soundtrack (Rush, 
 Coheed and Cambria, Blue Oyster Cult etc...) , we've gotten new DLC like Wolfmother, The Black Crowes, 
 and more Rush, frequently (much more frequently than GH3) and since you've got more than just the 
 guitar it makes for better party game. The only real gripes I have are that the guitar peripheral 
 has a reputation for malfunctioning after about 4 hours of play (mine stopped registering downstrums 
 and the tilt sensor wouldn't register) , and of course there's no online Band World Tour mode. Other 
 than that this game is absolutely spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagamedudeguy13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band has some of the greatest songs, with the ability to play drums, sing, or do guitar. It 
 also has an amazing story mode for more than one person. It also has solo tour, which is fun if 
 your are alone. The unlockables and items for sale are also really cool, because they give you 
 the ability to customize your character in almost every way possible. Rock Band can get even non-gamers 
 to play, and my family is proof. I have a family of four, and we all play together. I play games 
 a lot and so does my brother, my dad plays games every now and then, but my mom never plays video 
 games. Rock Band got her to play a Video game, and she absolutley loves it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhbk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is off the chain! The best... Absolutely the best music game ever made! It just gives 
 you that feeling that you are actually playing in a Rock Band, and that every single stop you make, 
 is just another step into greatness! This game caught me off guards. At first I didnt really want 
 it.. untill i actually had it. The guitar is way better than guitar hero's guitar; at least thats 
 what i think. It is just way more realistic! Its bigger.. the fret buttons dont look like regular 
 fake buttons. The drums are awesome! it just makes you feel like you're actually drumming that 
 song you're playing. Its just so real! and the karaoke its sooo awesome. People in my family love 
 it. I love it. everyone does. If you ever wanted to rock around the world... just buy Rock Band, 
 and go wild! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGravy02
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Rock band, in my opinion, is better than the Guitar Hero series. While guitar hero has one-game's 
 worth of content, Rock band has 4 times that amount. That makes the Rock Band price tag seem not 
 as bad if you look at it as buying 4 games, normally being $240 instead of $180 for Rock Band, 
 not to mention the Controllers it comes with. One of the game's main criticisms is that the lay 
 out of the fretboard is different in comparison to the original circles used in guitar hero. While 
 that takes some getting used to, I grew to like the Rock Band's solid line style more because it 
 is more accurate. not only is the gameplay well done, so is the set-list. I couldn't have put together 
 a more complete amount of songs as great as Rock Band's even if I wanted to. There are very few 
 songs that weren't completely licensed in the game, making more original songs available than re-made 
 ones. The guitar not clicking when a player strums is hated by guitar hero fans, but they need 
 to understand that if every instrument in rock band made that noise, that would make it the most 
 annoying game to play because you wouldn't even hear the music, only clicking. But overall, Rock 
 Band is very well put together aside from the fact that the guitars have been known to break on 
 occasion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyman222111
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  h h h h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h hh h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h hh i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i. h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
 h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slain25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I got this game yesterday and was suprised out of the box how well put together most of the equipment 
 felt. The drums are very sturdy and the mic feels very solid and has a authenticrockin on the 
 stage" feel to it. The guitar on the other hand as a slightly plasticky feel to it. It needs to 
 be joined together also by some other means other than the screws. overall feels pretty good. song 
 selection is awesome and i'm not biased based on the other gh games and i like the selection. I've 
 already spent money on microsoft points to dl more songs but I'm happy with the included selection 
 too. I've only played with one other person so far, but I can't wait to get a full 4 man band going! 
 I've got a big party comin up and most of the people i know have played guitar hero so i bet it 
 will be a blast!!! Have fun with this one!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firesoccer849
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is the next great thing in music gaming.. I think that its great that they added singing 
 and drums because if you were already awesome at the guitar hero series you now have new things 
 to master which is a lot of fun doing. This game is awesome with your friends or at parties because 
 everyone can play something. Also a great feature is the dlc.. With new songs coming out every 
 week you will never get bored of playing the same songs over and over. Rock Band is a bit pricy 
 but its worth it.. There could also be some technical difficulties (guitar strum bar messed up, 
 bass pedal cracking) but you can send it back and get a fresh good one in about a week... 
  Great Buy and Worth The Money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostAdvenger
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  If you play guitar hero (or just own a GH guitar) and have no friends, do not bother buying the 
 $170 version of this game with all of the hardware. The $50 version will suffice. However, I've 
 heard of trouble regarding the GH3 guitar working with Rock Band. 
  However, if you have a minimum of 3 friends, one of each who is decent at each instrument, finding 
 somebody to sing is usually the hardest, then start counting your pennies (17000 + 1000-ish tax 
 pennies depending on your place of residence) . Welcome to the world of rock bands minus the groupies, 
 human fans, and musical talent (unless your the singer. Good job, singer) . 
  But before you start your on the journey to glory, fame, and heroin addictions, there are a couple 
 things you need to take into consideration:
  1) Do you have enough room to set up/play the game? Things can get tight.
  2) Is your TV big 
 enough? Most TVs are, but the smaller the TV, the closer you will all have to cram together to 
 play the game. Just imagine the drummers drum stick stabbing the guitarist in the eye. Then the 
 guitarist knocks out the singers teeth when he flails his guitar into overdrive. And the singer 
 accidentally strangles the drummer with the microphone cord.
  3) Do you have neighbors or elderly residence to care about the noise? The louder the better. At 
 least until your ears are bleeding, then the louder the worse at that point.
  4) Are any of the band members sissies? If you're not much of a singer, your throat will start 
 hurting after a few songs. Just keep drinking water. Although drumming looks the coolest, the angle 
 of the foot pedal is amazingly uncomfortable. Put something under it to angle it if you can. If 
 you play one of the guitars, there are songs where your thumb or arm will actually hurt from the 
 strumming. Suck it up. Hopefully this can eliminate some of the ergonomic hazards of the game. 
 Otherwise, you might need to start looking for new band members.
  Other things to consider:
  1) There are a lot of wires with all of the instruments. If your in 
 a tight area, be careful around the instruments. The mic especially manages to float around and 
 get wrapped around people's necks. Perhaps buy a mic stand?
  2) The drummer needs a chair. Just something to consider once again if your in a tight spot.
 
  3) Is one of the band members affiliated with a legitimate business? See if he/she owns one of 
 those $1000 projectors so you can play Rock Band on the wall. Another thing to consider when choosing 
 band members. 
  4) Seriously, don't get the cops called on you for playing too loud at 4am. It's embarrassing. 
 
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - Highly Addictive
  Sound 10/10 - Sound's great, especially with 5.1
  Visual 9.5/10 - not too much cutting edge graphics 
 necessary, but band members will occasionally move through each other on stage.
  Hardware 9.0/10 There has been faulty equipment issues. You'll have to get it exchanged via mail.
 
  
  
  Overall, given the context of the situation, this game is usually Two Scoops of Awesome. Don't 
 forget to check out the track list on wikipedia before you buy, just to make sure you enjoy what 
 you'll be playing. This especially pertains to those who listen solely to those New Age-Techno-Christian-Reggie. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solideagle13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  First off, no it is not a total rip-off of the Guitar Hero franchise. Sure it has a guitar career 
 but Harmonix branched off in so many new ways. You can sing AND play at the same time. You can 
 also do this with the bass and drums. Of course I haven't worked up the guts to try this but it 
 is a really cool addition. Another new area that was never acknowledged in the GH series was customization 
 of your rocker. You can change their hair, clothes, and even what attitude they show on stage.
 
  
  The 
 
  
  -Great variety of songs such as, Tom Sawyer, Detroit Rock City, and Run To the Hills
  -Customization of your character is definitely a plus
  -Creating a band logo and putting them 
 on instruments is really cool
  -Probably the best multiplayer game of the year
  -Great career mode
  
  The (Semi) 
 
  
  -You are left replaying lots of songs to get more stars
  -While customization is great, could have had more hairstyles and clothes or the option to choose 
 a hat and a hairstyle rather than pre-chosen
  -The guitar that is pre-packaged is a little less than reliable
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodtwon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I only recently began trying out games in the music/party genre and boy had I been missing out! 
 My friends and I love this "game" if you can even call it that. It is actually more like a concert 
 experience. You actually have to perform the songs. The success of the song depends on how well 
 each individual member of your "band" performs their parts. It is so much fun, especially for a 
 group of people. The last time I played 8 of us took turns playing the different instruments and 
 singing. Even my little 8 year old nephew got involved. He is a whiz on the guitar and drums! I 
 highly recommend Rock Band to anyone who enjoys music/party games and music in general. Now obviously 
 the folks who made this game were not able to include every song that any one person would like, 
 which would be impossible, but the selection and variety of songs available in the game are both 
 very large and diverse. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is the result Guitar Hero's idea mixed with some new ideas. it's simply gaming evolution. 
 one good game comes out with a great new idea and after that different games are made improving 
 on that one idea. Rock Band improved the guitar simulator idea to whole new level adding drums, 
 a microphone and a full band experience. And it did so in a dramatic way.
  
  The Guitar/Bass:
  The lower 5 buttons with the original top 5 add a more realistic feel to the 
 gameplay. I think the gameplay on Rock Band is much easier than Guitar Hero. If you can play beat 
 GH2 on expert you should have no problem knocking down Rock Band's setlist (which is wayyyy better 
 in my opinion) on guitar or bass. It just might take a little bit to get used to the thinner note 
 icons on the screen and the lower 5 buttons.
  
  The Microphone:
  On easy, it is almost impossible to fail... on expert it takes some pipes. The only real thing 
 you need to know is that pitch and the overall melody of your voice will have to be improved over 
 each difficulty. I'd advise playing on a lower difficulty for songs you don't know as well and 
 higher ones for songs you're very familiar with.
  
  The Drums:
  The drums were very hard to get used to for me, but not too difficult to master. The color pattern 
 for the drums is different (red, yellow, blue, green) , there's the bass drum you have to stomp 
 quite quite often, and star power is engaged by hitting green at the end of a drum solo. But the 
 amazing thing about the drums are that while simulating guitar, you don't get near the actual experience 
 of a real guitar and it's not near the same thing, but for drums and vocals, it is.
  
  If you are going to buy Rock Band i wouldn't buy GH3, and if you're going to buy GH3 I wouldn't 
 "recommend" buying Rock Band. because they are just a different experience all together and i do 
 believe one of the goals was to make it harder to play GH3 after playing Rock Band for so long 
 to capture more Rock Band junkies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  This game kicks guitar hero's A$$ I cant believe people still wanna play guitar hero with this 
 game on the market now. this is the most fun you can have with your pants off... and actually its 
 fun without pants to.
  
  GOod soundtrack GRRRRRRRRREAT downloadable content with the Metallica pack and Sabbath pack and 
 others to come... 
  
  great mutiplayer tour mode. solo tour is fun as well
  
  this game is awesome.... 
  
  A must have to any rock fan or music fan or video game fan or 
 human...
  i give this game a 10/10 
  
  sounds great looks great plays great easy to learn the drums signing is dead on. MY fiance doesnt 
 know a lot of the songs but has an easy time singing in the game anyway because its set up easy 
 to read and is AWESOME!!!! this game is AWESOME... great party game... played it on NEW YEARS with 
 everyone for a few hours and it was a blast and after a few beers the game only gets funner................... 
 not a word! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Rockband is similar to Guitar Hero. But with a twist. Rockband supports 4 player multiplayer allowing 
 you to have 2 guitarists, a drummer, and a singer. It works the same way as Guitar Hero with the 
 scrolling notes, except for the vocalist whos lyrics scroll by along with some horizontal lines 
 on it. The lines indicate the pitch and an arrow shows you whether you are low or high. It also 
 has a singleplayer tour mode. When you play a gig successfully you are awarded money based on the 
 number of stars your band recieved as a whole. You can then spend the money on new instruments, 
 or you can buy new clothes to make your character more of the rocker you want him to be. Then you 
 put him up on stage at your next gig and you get to appreciate the money you spent on him. Although 
 rockband costs more than Guitar Hero, when you compare the prices they arent that bad. Guitar Hero 
 gives you one guitar and the game for 80$. For 200$ you can get a mic, drums, and a guitar. Thats 
 $80 per instrument for Guitar Hero's cheap looking guitar, or $66 per instrument for a sweet looking 
 guitar, awesome drumset (complete with bass pedal) and a pitch sensing mic. Which is the better 
 deal? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jOnGuSm0e
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Being a rhythm game addict, I had to give Rock Band a try. Now, I figured this might be a little 
 like Guitar Hero, with the same old songs over and over again.. but boy was I wrong.
  
  Pros:
  -Hours and hours of gameplay.
  -Play different instruments with your friends, very fun.
 
  -Awesome online play.
  -One of the best songlists I've ever seen in a rhythm game, there's something for everybody.
 
  -Plenty of DLC.
  
  Cons:
  -Hardware doesn't always work.
  -No bands online. (Rumor has it that there may be a patch for this though..)
  -Very pricey.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  If you like rhythm games such as Guitar Hero or Dance Dance Revolution, this will definitely keep 
 you entertained, or even if you're looking for a good party game, this is the game for you. If 
 you have the money and want a game that will last, I would definitely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warstomp
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Now I used to love guitar hero as much as most people have. But I have to admit the latest one 
 just sucks. And this game knocks it right out of the water.
  
  
  The Good
  
 
  
  The music choice was just awesome. They choose really good bands and everything.
  
  The ability to custimize your own characters to play.
  
  The drums are just really nice to 
 play. Atleast so far I have not run into the problems others have and it just really is fun to 
 play.
  
  The singing I have to admit even though I thought it would be stupid is quite enjoyable its really 
 fun to sing like nirvana or something else good.
  
  The parts where you can just go crazy is something that I think was really neat. Youll have these 
 parts where these like long things that appear like long notes but arent them. where you can just 
 go insane and click whatever the heck you want and its really fun on drums to have those parts.
 
  
  Amazingly entertaining for boring family gatherings or if you have just a friend. Especially if 
 you have all four instruments being used. Its just this electric fun excitement that happens.
 
  
  The songs sound really nice like the originals also which is something I think guitar hero 3 was 
 a swing and a miss on.
  
  
  The Bad
  
  
  The guitar is not 
 as hard to play as guitar hero which can if playing solo result in alittle bit of boredum. But 
 with 4 people in the room or just 2 its this electric fun that removes that.
  
  Its alittle confusing as to how to get the mic to work. So I finally figured out 2 days ago that 
 you turn on the controller thenhook it up. I was so confused becuase, there was no buttons or anything.
 
  
  The graphics of the characters are not as good as GH3 but I guess you loose that when you get customizable 
 stuff.
  
  Thats all I can think of for the bad stuff.
  
  
  
  All in all rockband does a lot 
 of what guitar should of done. It has pushed this competition between the 2 further with the addition 
 of 2 instruments and it just feels much better and well done then guitar heros crappy song choice 
 and crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narutofan30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  The drums are ok but the real fun is the microphone and the guitar because you should know how 
 to use them right off the bat. The drums are something you have to practice if you dont know how 
 to play the real drums. The one bad thing is when your on world tour to advance you have to get 
 more fans but theres a limited amount of fans you can get when playing on easy. So you have to 
 play a higher difficulty to get more fans to get more gigs to beat world tour mode. Well any way 
 this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_3000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is the new game by Harmonix, the creators of Guitar Hero, and instead of just focusing 
 on the Guitar, you get to play drums, sing, and play bass. It's a really great concept for a music 
 game. This game introduces probably the first "realistic" drumset for a game. It has 4 different 
 colored pads and a working bass pedal. It's really fun to play the drums, but it's hard as well. 
 If you have friends over, you can play this all new mode called "Band World Tour". It's like living 
 the life of a rock star. You travel to different cities, playing various gigs, and the better you 
 play, the more money and fans you earn! Simple right? But here comes the hard part. In Band World 
 Tour, Rock Band will force you to play on harder difficulties if your not already playing on Expert. 
 If your just a beginner, Band World Tour might not be right for you because overtime, you will 
 not earn any fans if you keep playing on Easy or Medium. I don't really like this feature. There's 
 no fun if you can't play on a specific difficulty. So I guess Band World Tour is only for people 
 who are experienced. But there's no need to fear, Solo mode is here! If you don't have friends 
 over (or no friends at all : ( ) Leave the band and start your own Solo career! It's not as deep 
 as Band World Tour, but if your just starting Rock Band, you should probably go for this mode. 
 On Solo Career, you will not be forced to move up on a difficulty. Only play on Easy? Go ahead, 
 practice your Axe-Grinding skills, or your drumming, or even your vocals! Now let's go on to the 
 important part of a music game. The actual songlist. Now this songlist is a love/hate thing. I 
 personally love the songlist, but I don't know about you guys. Some of the best songs on this game 
 are (Don't Fear) The Reaper, In Bloom, Dani California, Tom Sawyer, Reptilia, and many more. Other 
 than the flaw on Band World Tour, Rock Band is still a great music game. Probably the best music 
 game to date. Anybody who is a fan of Guitar Hero should pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrGreenMachine
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  I loved the game, im still playing online to this day. But the whole time i was playing, i had 
 this feeling that i was playing guitar hero 2. Almost as if all those forums titled "What Guitar 
 Hero 3 should be" were read by Rock Band's developers. But that's not exactly a bad thing, it just 
 left the taste of Guitar Hero 2 still in my mouth while i was playing. The Create a Character is 
 a breath of fresh air, i thought bringing your character to life online is a great idea and something 
 guitar hero should have thought of. I also enjoyed the solo groove, and the ending bonus. the one 
 problem i've had with the game so far, has been the frame rate, in some songs, some places, i've 
 noticed it just fails horribly, this isn't much of a problem because i pay more attention to the 
 bar of music rushing towards me then the botchy band behind it. All and all, great game, not worthy 
 of perfection, but still quite good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioCartDSv4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Well first off the reviews I heard from people who owned the game before me said that it is a great 
 game, but the instruments break very easily. Which is what many reviews find the biggest flaw. 
 Another, not necessarily flaw, is the song selection. It has good songs, but compared to the GH 
 games its not good. I have experienced the instruments problems. The guitar will have random days 
 where it will read my strums only have the time. I strum mostly down, and when its having one of 
 those days, I have to strum up and strumming up is a little bit harder for me. Idk it must just 
 me being a nub, idk. Well even though there are many flaws. There are also many good things. Like 
 it being XBL enabled. Not only can you play with your friends and other random people, you can 
 buy new songs when they come out. That will keep people coming back for more. Since it is an expensive 
 game not many of my friends own it so I go to the "Find Players" option. Which I would not have 
 expected them to do that. 
  The Local Play is different than GH. I played with a friend on Local Play for about 6 hours straight 
 and the whole point of us playing for that long was unlocking new songs. At the time I had no completed 
 single player mode. Since then I have. But we played for about 6 hours on the World Tour Mode, 
 and it was very repetitive. We did not unlock any new songs and the game just kept giving us more 
 and more places to have "gigs". Maybe we were playing it wrong, but after looking at it, it looked 
 as if in order to fully complete one city you had to get 5 stars on every song. Now i'm not saying 
 that getting 5 stars is hard because its not, if your on easy. I hate playing on easy because it 
 is not fun and it doesn't feel like your actually playing. and its not a challenge. Getting 5 stars 
 on expert is not the easiest thing to do, but its definetly not impossible. Maybe we were just 
 doing it wrong for the purpose we were playing it for, but either way, World Tour is looong if 
 you do it all.
  In Single Player mode you can play as any instrument and go through the whole game as just that 
 instrument.
  I hope this review has answered any questions about the game, and if it hasn't then just send me 
 a message and I will answer as soon as I can. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursedmonkeY95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a great party game that everyone will enjoy, even if they don't know how to play guitar 
 or drums. (so thats whats fun about it!)
  
  
  For those who don't know what Rock Band is, it's a rock music game where you form your own band 
 customize your own character to play with. You can choose from guitar, bass guitar, drums, or sing. 
 You can also get your family or friends and create your own band together. Also, there are tons 
 of classic and modern rock songs that are fun to play.
  
  
  Also, there are some bad stuff.... For the mic, you must really have to be good at singing to get 
 those right pitches. If it's your first time singing on a video game, you should start on easy. 
 Also, if your used to guitar hero series, you need to train yourself to Rock Band because of the 
 square notes and it is harder to do Hammer-Ons and Pull-Offs. Also, $170 can be a little too much, 
 so that's why most people got it for the holidays
  
  The online play is really great with the band quickplay and tug of war or score duel. Too bad that 
 there isn't an online multiplayer band world tour. You can only play with people in your household 
 to play band world tour. For Band quickplay, it is hard to find a match sometimes because too many 
 people are all ready in the game or there aren't that many people playing, or because to many people 
 are playing the instrument that you are playing.
  
  So have fun playing Rock Band! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacardi0987
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  If you think about it. Why play a game where you only have a guitar and a bass guitar when you 
 can spend a little bit more and have a drum set, a guitar, a microphone, and a bass guitar. If 
 rock band came out first and there was already a rock band 1, 2,3 and then guitar hero 1 comes 
 out it would never sell. So i give rock band credit just for staying in the competition. The only 
 way i see GH 3 selling more is the music selection but if you don't care too much about the music 
 and just care about playing different instruments then rock band is a better game. When first playing 
 rock band the music that they gave i liked. I started the single player and unlocked bonus songs. 
 Well when i went to play the bonus songs on mulitplayer quick play some of them weren't there. 
 It didn't make sense. the songs that you unlocked in GH you could play in mulitplayer. GH was very 
 simple and easy to understand. You play the songs and you have on list of songs you play them and 
 unlock more and you work your way down. Rock band is a little bit different. You have the same 
 5 songs and then bonus songs track. But when you play multiplayer and go on the road with a band 
 it gets confusing on what you have to do. You have different places to play and you end up play 
 the same songs over and over again. So in a sense it cool cause thats how a real band kinda works 
 playing the same songs just in different places but the fact that its a game and you get tired 
 of playing the same songs over and over again i just wish there was an easier way to make sure 
 that you effort is to unlocking all the songs. In GH all i wanted to do was to unlock all of the 
 songs because that way when you have friends over you have more of a selection. I've had Rock Band 
 for a week and it seems like i have the same songs to choose from and the list doesn't get any 
 longer. i don't know if i'm in the right game mode. If you have to play a game where you have to 
 read the instrustions then the game isn't as user friendly as it should be. I have read a game 
 instruction book in years. Also ive been player the game for less then a week and my guitar already 
 broke. It wont strum and the d pad wont even work. also on my drums you can't hit the red really 
 fast anymore it wont register. So i have to send both of them back. The only good thing is it is 
 easy to apply to get new insturments. it took me 5 mins to apply to get my old one send out and 
 my new one sent in. in about 2 days i should get it. well see. 
  
  Bottom line
  Pros
  Rock Band is a new game to compete with GH. its great to play with your friends and feels like 
 your playing a in a real band. The music selection is a mix and some newer songs too. and of course 
 songs that you never heard before
  
  Cons
  If your spending 180 you better be getting things that don't break. The fact that they fix it for 
 free how bad can you really hate them. its not as easy as GH. Unlocking new songs is harder because 
 when you play mulitplayer quick play you can't find the songs that you already unlcoked. You can 
 enentually unlock 57 or something like that songs and in GH you get like 80 something. So you would 
 like to have more songs unless you want to cough up the 6 bucks for like 3 songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Just let me say, I am so glad I did NOT buy this game. I was lucky enough to have friends who invited 
 me over to play it, and it was a lot of fun. The fun was soon to end though, as the problems with 
 the hardware and the game became apparent.
  
  But before I get into those problems, let me review the good components of Rock Band:
  
  There's 
 a huge variety of venues, songs, and customization to be had. Downloadable content is being released 
 on a fairly consistent basis, and it looks like the game will have a lot of play value for years 
 to come. It is also incredibly fun to sing and drum the songs now, and these two new aspects of 
 the music genre are a very welcome addition.
  
  The controls are near perfect, and easy to learn. Start out on easy, get used to the game, and 
 progress from there.
  
  However, I unfortunately found more flaws with this game than I wanted to.
  
  First off, the 
 presentation of the notes scrolling down the screen for the guitar/bass is surprisingly unlike 
 that of the Guitar Hero series. The notes are now represented as small rectangles. And the hammer-ons? 
 EVEN SMALLER rectangles. The difference between the regular strum notes and the hammer-on notes 
 is almost unnoticeable. The hammer-ons aren't lit up or anything, they're just slightly smaller 
 rectangles, and when a fast song comes along, you'll sometimes be wondering what's a hammer on 
 and what's a strum.
  
  Next, the peripherals. They're amazingly fun to play and all, but they aren't durable or quality 
 peripherals in any sense at all. I arrived at my friends house only to see the guitar had already 
 failed after a day of normal, non-abusive use. The drum pedal snaps easily if your foot is not 
 positioned just right on it. The drums suffered from a response delay soon after I left.
  The low-quality peripherals that come with the game are simply unacceptable, considering they are 
 necessary to get a full playing experience from the game.
  
  Finally, the graphics. The graphics while you're playing songs are good, but they always seem blurry 
 and choppy at times, and it really hurts to watch them after playing Guitar Hero 3. 
  
  Overall, I'm disappointed in Rock Band. Poor quality peripherals and notes presentation really 
 hurt this game, and I'm sad to give it such a low rating. I expected much better around the core 
 of Rock Band's gameplay, but it is not there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerxmm55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good: It is the ultimate party game. It's fun to play every instrument (except maybe for bass) . 
 Cool visual style. 
  
  The Bad: $170 price tag. Guitar peripheral a mixed-bag. Unfulfilling single player mode. 
  
 
  For the uninitiated, let's play a quick round of catch-up. Harmonix, the game developer responsible 
 for the massively popular (and rightly so) music rhythm series, Guitar Hero, has taken that idea 
 to the next level. This time around, instead of just rocking a sweet axe, a drum kit and microphone 
 are included in the package. The idea is to offer up the ultimate multiplayer music experience, 
 that of being in a real live Rock Band! Does it succeed? 
  
  In places, yes. Let's start off with the guitar, shall we? Any person familiar with the Guitar 
 Hero series should have no problem jumping into Rock Band on the guitar. It plays identically to 
 it's spiritual predecessor. In the past, however, official guitar peripherals have been designed 
 and manufactured by Red Octane. Now they're developed without the help of of that great name. The 
 result is an aesthetically pleasing design, paired with a concoction of smart moves and missteps. 
 The peripheral (which resembles a Fender Stratocaster) has fret buttons that are flush with the 
 neck of the guitar (both at the end and closer to the body) . This makes it more difficult to keep 
 track of where your fingers are located than it would on a Red Octane guitar, but after a few practice 
 songs it hardly matters. 
  
  The largest problem with the guitar is the strum bar which, even though it is entirely silent when 
 strummed (finally) , feels too spongy for it's own good. In a fast song like The Ramones' "Blitzkrieg 
 Bop" where you're required to strum quickly, it can become difficult to lose track of where you 
 are in the song. The old Red Octane guitars had a definite "stop" to it that you could feel (and 
 hear) . These do not. Overall, it's a somewhat decent peripheral (even if the failure rate is remarkably 
 high) . Still, I won't be throwing out my Red Octane guitars anytime soon. 
  
  The microphone peripheral is, well, a microphone. There's no getting around this one. Even if you 
 can't play guitar, you can still shred the stuff at Guitar Hero (I'm proof of that) . But if you 
 can't sing, you may want to do your friends and family a favor and pass the mic to someone who 
 can. Accordingly, the gameplay is fairly straightforward. Getting a high rating on your vocal performance 
 will require you to sing the song well. Like the other instruments on the game, "notes" will scroll 
 across the screen and it is your job to not only hit the right notes, but to begin and end the 
 notes at the correct time. An arrow to the right of the screen will tell you if you need to shift 
 your voice to match the correct pitch, just in case you couldn't tell on your own. As you increase 
 the difficulty of the game, you'll have to be more accurate in your notes as well as your hits 
 and releases. Things can get pretty unforgiving at higher difficulties. 
  
  But like all songs, there are times when you're not going to be singing, just standing around. 
 Harmonix has smartly added in a nice gimmick to keep you busy. During these times, small dots will 
 appear on the screen and you'll have to tap the microphone in time to simulate shaking a tambourine 
 or clapping your hands. It's not the most enthralling gameplay ever, but it keeps you from getting 
 bored while your buddy is wailing away on the guitar. The worst part about singing is trying to 
 tackle a song that you're unfamiliar with. Fortunately, Harmonix has done it's best to get a wide 
 variety of songs in to make sure that most people know a few songs beforehand. 
  
  Ahh, but most people aren't going to be buying Rock Band for the guitar or the microphone. They 
 already own games like that. No, the big draw for Rock Band is the new drum peripheral. And it's 
 great! I had my doubts the first time I hopped behind a demo kit, but now that I've had substantial 
 time with the drum peripheral, it's safe to say that this is what people will be fighting over 
 at the inevitable Rock Band parties. The build quality of this peripheral is phenomenal. It feels 
 solid, and unless you're taking out your aggression on the bass pedal with cement shoes, you should 
 have a hard time breaking it. Real wooden sticks are included in the package, and though the pads 
 don't have as much bounce as a real kit would, the experience of sitting behind the kit and rocking 
 out is awesome! 
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the guitars. Notes will scroll vertically from the top of the screen, 
 and you must hit the correct colors in rhythm. When a long orange line appears, you must step on 
 the bass pedal. It's all pretty straightforward and self-explanatory for anyone familiar with Harmonix's 
 other games. In addition to that, there are also "fill sections" where you're free to bang around 
 on the drums at your leisure and hitting the crash cymbal at the end of the section will trigger 
 "overdrive" (Rock Band's "Star Power") . The fill sections can be a curse too, however. While a 
 real-life drummer could knock out a fill without hesitation, someone who absolutely sucks at playing 
 real drums (myself) will find themselves struggling to keep rhythm when they're not spoon-fed scrolling 
 notes. It really breaks-up the gameplay. When you add in the fact that these fill sections will 
 become more prominent until you activate your overdrive, it can get kind of annoying. Also annoying 
 is when you're playing guitar while someone else comes across a fill section and butchers it, screwing 
 you up in the process. It's a cool idea, but poorly implemented. 
  
  And now on to the game, itself. Single player is set up almost exactly like the Guitar Hero series. 
 There is a career mode, where you play through the game's entire soundtrack, and there is quickplay. 
 Career mode is the game's biggest failure. It's an absolute chore to complete this mode by yourself 
 when all you want to do is jam with friends. And you have to complete it if you want to unlock 
 all of the game's songs too (a huge, huge misstep) . Unlike Guitar Hero, there are no encore songs, 
 and therefore no surprises. It's just a straightforward play-through mode with little to no reward 
 for completing it. 
  
  Multiplayer is where it's at. And unlike most Xbox 360 games, local multiplayer severely trumps 
 online play. When you're in a room with 3 other people in your virtual band, it can get pretty 
 fun. You just don't get that same feeling when you're going online against people you don't know 
 and can't interact with. The biggest attraction in multiplayer mode is the Band World Tour mode 
 (no Xbox Live functionality here) , where you and your friends can start a virtual band and tour 
 the world. The better you perform, the more fans you attain. Likewise, if you fail a song, you 
 lose fans. You can also unlock vans, buses, and other rock gear to help you on your tour across 
 the globe. The whole idea of this mode is to realistically mimic the real-life journey of a real-life 
 band. For real. Harmonix has also added in some choices to the gameplay that will keep things interesting 
 (i. e. Will you sell out or not? Will you play this large venue and risk losing more fans or stick 
 to the small one?) . It all makes for a surprisingly fun, and engrossing multiplayer mode. 
  
  The standard multiplayer modes are here as well, including "Tug of War" and "Score Duel" (similar 
 to Guitar Hero's "Face-Off" and "Pro Face-Off," respectively) . Unfortunately, these only work if 
 you have two of the same instrument lying around. Unless you're unfathomably wealthy, that means 
 you'll likely be dueling on guitars only for the time being. 
  
  The game has a pretty cool visual style, with heavy distortion and filters applied to almost all 
 in-game character animations. It gives it a very raw feel, which fits the game's rock-theme perfectly. 
 There is a pretty deep character customization system too, where you can create a digital version 
 of yourself or your idealized self. Tattoos, piercings, and fauxhawks are all available for you 
 to play around with, and you can even unlock more through the game's career mode. Load times can 
 be a bit grueling (at least on my early-model Xbox 360) , and the lack of any wireless peripherals 
 is an absolute joke! Expect plenty of tangles, especially from that 20-foot mic cable. The game 
 also comes with a USB splitter to allow you to connect all peripherals, but unfortunately it requires 
 it's own power supply. 
  
  In the end though, there are very few things to complain about when it comes to Rock Band. Harmonix's 
 dream game has finally made it's way onto store shelves, and if you're lucky and rich enough to 
 snag a copy (the game currently retails for $170) , you will have an absolutely amazing time rocking 
 out with friends. If you don't have any friends though (or at least any that would be interested 
 in playing Rock Band) , you may want to spend your money elsewhere. Rock Band's single player experience 
 is fun for a short time, but you'll find yourself longing to play with real live human beings before 
 too long. And if all you're interested in is the drums, you can always just wait until early 2008 
 to pick up a copy of the game with the drums only (for much cheaper) . Anyways, the point is that 
 Rock Band is one of the finest music rhythm games ever made and quite possibly the greatest party 
 game ever to come into existence. If Guitar Hero was your thing, and you have plenty of friends 
 to play with (and, of course, the money) , buy Rock Band! You will not be disappointed.
  
  8.5Presentation
  A really cool visual style, but slow load times. 
  
  9.0 Graphics
  Nothing 
 too spectacular (as if it matters) , but there are some cool grain effects on all in-game videos 
 that add to the style of the game.
  
  9.5 Sound
  Possibly the best collection of songs ever assembled on a music game. Master tracks are everywhere 
 and appreciated!
  
  9.5 Gameplay
  Single player is a bore, but everything else is great. You can't describe the feeling of sitting 
 behind a drum kit and wailing away. You have to experience it. 
  
  10.0 Lasting Appeal
  Assuming you have friends, you'll be playing this one for months, if not years. And all that downloadable 
 content will go a long way. 
  
  9.5 OVERALL
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanzigThrall
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  there is only one thing wrong with this game and thats the song list but I understand so they could 
 get all genres init. There is no other thing wrong with Rock Band some could say the price or the 
 hardware concerns but thats the case with any game like this its not cheap to make this stuff and 
 they have to make a profit so yeah and the hardware concerns issue well the same thing goes for 
 Guitar Hero and games that have equipment you have to use like that and that may be deffective 
 but you have an warranty for these potential problems. But now for the game itself........... THIS 
 GAME IS SO FUN AND ADDICTING...... its a flawless game its all the other rythym and music games 
 out there put together with a well rounded list of songs on it to touch base on all the sub genres 
 of rock in it so it makes perfect sense. But this game is really fun to play especially with friends. 
 So get this game if you plan on having alot people come over often get this game and you wont regret 
 getting this game its got songs that everyone could like. SO GO OUT AND BUY THIS GAME AND ROCK 
 OUT TILL YOU CANT NO MORE THEN TAKE A BREAK THEN START IT AGAIN CAUSE THE WORLD IS YOURS FOR THE 
 ROCKING IN THE BAND WORLD TOUR MODE
  but seriously this is a fun game give it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  While it still doesn't even come close to actually playing in a real band, it's still 10x better 
 than Guitar Hero.
  
  Most of the songs on here are pretty good, *cough*Train Kept a Rollin'*cough*. The drummer really 
 helps to keep the beat if you screw up on guitar. People would probably never touch the mic, but 
 I think it's very surprisingly addictive!
  
  About the instruments themselves, the guitar has frets that you press instead of buttons, playable 
 frets higher up the neck that allows you to take a break from strumming in solos, a 5-way effect 
 switch that lets you choose wah-wah, flanger, echo, chorus, or normal, and yes, a whammy bar.
  The drum set is basically 4 pads: a red pad (snare) , green (crash) , yellow (cymbal and tom) , blue 
 (ride cymbal and floor tom) , and a foot pedal (bass drum) . The set also includes a pair of drumsticks!
 
  The microphone is an ordinary mic. The cool this is that you can tap it like a tambourine or cowbell 
 to follow the beat in those otherwise boring spots with no lyrics.
  The other really great addition is freedom! The player on drums can crank out a solo of anything 
 he chooses when the multi-color bars appear on the lines. The singer can sing (or scream) anything 
 when the lyric line is boxed in gold swirls. I prefer to just shout, "I'd like a double cheeseburger!" 
 when I get the chance.
  
  It gets pretty rough on "Hard", and "Expert" is nearly impossible. I think it would be a whole 
 lot easier if the songs were only as difficult on the game as they are in real life. My brother 
 and I play "Train Kept-a-Rollin'" fairly easy in real life, but I almost miss every note in Rock 
 Band.
  
  If I could choose 5 songs that I could play on Rock Band, they'd have to be... 
  "Rock and Roll" (live) , "Black Dog", "Heartbreaker" (from "How the west was won") , "Immigrant Song" 
 (live) , and "Since I've Been Loving You" (from "The song remains the same")
  Could you imagine the "Rock and Roll" guitar riff?! Green, green, yellow, red, blue, red, yellow, 
 red, green!!!
  
  If you have parents that actually want to sleep at night, then I suggest buying the drummer a pair 
 of fleece mallets. I also suggest buying a real drum seat. My brother, (My band's drummer) uses 
 a "Gibraltar", and says he couldn't imagine playing with something like a lawn chair. lol
  
  Oh! I would want to play "Achilles Last Stand", too!!!
  
  Oh! AND "Dazed and Confused" 
 (from "The song remains the same") !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imbulletpr00f
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  ROCKBAND is a great game to enjoy alone or with a group.
  
  Drums: the drums are a fun thing to play but will get frustrating once you get off rythme u will 
 miss a few notes untill u get in rythme. they seem loud once u are hitting them as it will be hard 
 to get away with staying up late and playing it. foot pedal is good but your leg will get tired 
 and cramped. they give u a few strategies to follow on how not to get a cramped leg. but then my 
 problem is that if u rest your foot on the pedal my foot goes to the rythmw of the song which results 
 in a fail.
  
  Mic: is pretty simple sing or hum to the beat or pitch of the singer.
  
  guitar: well the guitar to me and my friends seem a little cheeap like u can here plastic wigling 
 sounds. whammy bar didnt last long for me. also hammer ons are harder then gh3.
  
  the game: the game content is like guitar hero but with better little things added to it like charachter 
 custumization. which has hundreds of things to throw on him. band world tour mode were you have 
 to gain fans and stars to make it to the hall of fame and play at bigger venues.
  
  the songs: the song selection is good far better then what gh3 offered us. but the tiers are like 
 guitar hero the long and boring ones are down near the bottom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while, a game comes along that truly changes everything about the industry. This 
 is one of those games, and perhaps the most important of them. I have been hooked on this game 
 for a long time, and because of it, I have neglected writing reviews for several other games, such 
 as Call of Duty 4 and Age of Empires III, which I have just picked up. In any case, Rock Band is 
 better than either of those games. This is the first game I have ever played that made me feel 
 like I was conrtibuting to a group, beyond simply earning points. I wish I had given Halo 3 a 9.9, 
 because this game is better.
  
  Graphically, Rock Band is a mixture of technical averageness and stylistic genius. Nothing in the 
 game really pops out, physics are virtually non-existant, and the quality of the characters themselves 
 is nowhere near what Guitar Hero III has been spoiling players with. That said, the game just simply 
 looks better than GHIII. Everything has a slightly grainy texture to it, which is a welcome change 
 from the utter realism of GHIII, and the animations are literally perfect. The drummer in particular 
 is miles beyond the GHIII animatron.
  
  Sound is perfect, but then again, it was just as good in GHIII.
  
  Where this game really performs 
 is in gameplay. Simply put, everything feels tighter in this game than it would in GHIII. Absolutely 
 nothing feels like luck, and while the Stratocaster might turn off some people, I bought the game 
 without the bundle and the GH controllers work fine. The game takes another step into perfection 
 when you play with a band. The 4 player experience is an almost perfect representation of a band, 
 complete with the typical arguing over who gets to play what. The only weak point I can think of 
 is the lack of an option to play with 3 guitars, a lead, rhythm and bass. For that matter, no song 
 in the game offers rhythm guitar, which is a disappointment. Hopefully this makes it in to Rock 
 Band 2.
  
  Another place where this game shines is the soundtrack. Good lord, this game has it all. Every 
 song is fun to play, from "The Green Grass and High Tides" by the Outlaws to the emo-tastic "Say 
 It Ain't So" by Weezer. The former is actually the best song in the game, offering beautiful vocals, 
 an incredible drum and bass line, and the best guitar solo of any guitar game so far. And these 
 are only the beginning. The downloadable tracks are all spectacular, with the only exception so 
 far being "Joker and the Thief" by Wolfmother, which was not mapped well into the game at all. 
 It seems so far that Rock Band may be able to hold its audience beyond the release of Guitar Hero 
 IV.
  
  Some people have complained that the price tag is too high, but that is simply rediculous. If you 
 have Guitar Hero III, all you need to do is buy the Rock Band game disc and plug in your controller. 
 Online play is a snap and can get you all the band mates you need.
  
  Simply put, Rock Band is an unbelievable experience. Buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgres077
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  I played Rock Band with three friends for the first time, all of us having many many hours of experience 
 with the Guitar Hero series, thus being naturals at this game.
  
  My first impressions were, wow, thats a lot of equipment to haul around (my friend brought the 
 game over to my house) . The peripherals were all solidly built and functioned great. We didn't 
 experience any problems with any of the peripherals, and all worked as advertised.
  
  Playing the Guitar and Bass were exactly the same as the Guitar Hero series. The drums were easily 
 the favorite instrument, and it took a few beverages... if you know what I mean... for anyone to 
 offer to sing vocals.
  
  Now, to the gameplay. If you're looking for a game to bring people together, this is the game. 
 You can play with friends to play along with the songs on screen, customize your own rock star, 
 gain fans, and earn money. The World Tour is great, however at a certain point it becomes nearly 
 impossible to gain more fans. The difficulty of the drums becomes extremely hard, and if you don't 
 have experience with actual drums it becomes very hard to keep up with the song after you move 
 past the Medium setting.
  
  Rock Band would have been a great game, had it came out before the Guitar Hero games. But, if you've 
 already logged many hours on Guitar Hero, even the drums and vocals seem to be a little stale after 
 a few hours of gameplay. Simply put, if you haven't played the Guitar Hero games you will love 
 this game, but if you've put many hours into Guitar Hero, Rock Band just doesn't offer enough new 
 content to give you that warm feeling Guitar Hero gave you when you first rocked out on the PS2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dosu178
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for christmas and I opened it and played all day. The game is great but its the 
 hardware thats bad. You have to seriously bang on the drums and the footpedal is annoying and the 
 guitar doesnt click so you dont if you hit the right notes or not. The biggest thing wrong with 
 the hardware is the microphone unless you are really yelling it won't read the note. The gameplay 
 is pure fun and the pacing is great and the character creation system is well done. The vibe of 
 being in a band is really fun. Their are some little problems in the game starting with the fact 
 that their is no online world tour the only online feature is just quickplay and the only thing 
 you can get from that is a high score. And another thing is the soundtrack isn't as solid as what 
 you would expect a game made by Harmonix. They should take a lesson from Neversoft who put in a 
 great soundtrack for Guitar Hero 3. Hopefully the next time Harmonix makes another Rock Band game 
 they make these problems better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aduana69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  NOW LETS SEE UMMMM, THE GAME IS IN A FEW WORDS GOOD. THE GAME WAS DESIGNED TO BE PLAYED WITH FRIEND. 
 SOME BEERS AND NACHOS AND ABRACADABRA. THE GRAPHICS ARE GOOD, AN AMAZING LIST OF SONGS AND DIFFERENT 
 TYPES OF PLAYING MODS. UPS JUST DELIVER THE GAME AND I HAD TO WAIT FOR A WEEK TO PLAY IT. I TRY 
 IT ALONE BUT I KIND FELT, TO BE HONEST DULL. BUT WITH SOME FRIENDS IS JUST INCREDIBLE. I HAVE SEEN 
 GUITAR HERO, BUT I TOOK MY CHANCES WITH THIS ONE AND I DO NOT REGRET IT. I BELIEVE THAT MTV AN 
 EA DID A GOOD JOB.
  
  NOW LETS SEE UMMMM, THE GAME IS IN A FEW WORDS GOOD. THE GAME WAS DESIGNED TO BE PLAYED WITH FRIEND. 
 SOME BEERS AND NACHOS AND ABRACADABRA. THE GRAPHICS ARE GOOD, AN AMAZING LIST OF SONGS AND DIFFERENT 
 TYPES OF PLAYING MODS. UPS JUST DELIVER THE GAME AND I HAD TO WAIT FOR A WEEK TO PLAY IT. I TRY 
 IT ALONE BUT I KIND FELT, TO BE HONEST DULL. BUT WITH SOME FRIENDS IS JUST INCREDIBLE. I HAVE SEEN 
 GUITAR HERO, BUT I TOOK MY CHANCES WITH THIS ONE AND I DO NOT REGRET IT. I BELIEVE THAT MTV AN 
 EA DID A GOOD JOB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shizzo01220
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  As a musician, I was really looking forward to this game because I thought it would be something 
 cool to play with my non-musician friends. The song list is actually really good for a video game. 
 There are bands like Sound Garden, Nirvana, etc... all of which I enjoy. The guitar and bass parts 
 of the game work like Guitar Hero. You press the colored buttons according to what comes up on 
 the screen, no problems there. Now, my biggest problem with this game, the drums. I have been playing 
 drums since I was barely able to walk, but I can't play the drums in this game. Why? Because they 
 don't work right. The drum pads feel cheap, and they aren't setup at all like a real drum kit. 
 Also, sometimes the pads miss hits and the game tells you to hit pads out of order during the game. 
 For instance, when you are playing a song that has a tom roll in it, you shouldn't be hitting a 
 pad on the left, then one on the right, then one in the middle. If any of you have ever even seen 
 someone play drums, you know this isn't right. I'll stick with guitar hero because it actually 
 works and I'll stick with my real drums for playing drums. This game is not worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FarmerJohn55
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  Ok, let me tell you that I have used all my spare time the past few days to play Rock Band with 
 friends, this is the best game ever made. I am having trouble where to start, but here goes, we 
 had a Christmas party and all me and my friends did was take turns playing this game, I was the 
 drummer most of the time, we had a music major who played all instruments on expert, mostly singing 
 as he was the only we thought wouldn't break the mic, and then everyone else mostly switch between 
 bass a guitar, we did mix it up, but our best band soon formed. After that party was over I started 
 the solo game, I was a little disappointed, it's not that it was bad, it's that they took so much 
 out from the multiplayer game that it made it feel kinda dull, it was essentially the same as guitar 
 hero. The song list had some great songs, but I had some like the Nine Inch Nails songs, and Sabatoge. 
 Other than that I have no complaints, the drums really are great, at first THEY SUCK, but then 
 as you are forced to play them because it is your turn, something strange happens, you get good, 
 and you have a blast! The guitar and bass are the same thing as before, and the mic is just funny, 
 we had a few little kids there and they kept bugging us so we let them sing, mistake, make sure 
 they can sing without cheating (humming into the mic LOUDLY) . When you get to the core the game 
 just brings people together, alone, meh it's fun, sure, but you get a little bit bored after a 
 while, and then you play with other people and you don't want to stop. I thought the way that they 
 made the band world tour mode was ingenious and that the entire game was not rushed in any way. 
 The people who hated the guitar hero guitar were right, this is way better, it makes you look cool, 
 and it's easier to play. I already have a few downloaded songs and I'm happy to say it makes a 
 great game better, I got Heroes and N. I. B, two great songs, I would like to see some more folk 
 and classic rock, as I am into that stuff, I think that some hippy rock like Cream would also be 
 great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conway666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is perhaps the best music based game in video game history. I have had the joy of playing 
 it several times a t a friends house and seeing every single instrument is perfected. Unfortunately 
 their is one major drawback of the game. I recently bought the game and withing 20 minutes of play 
 my drumpad became unresponsive. Many other people have had their kickpeddles snap in half, and 
 some people have had problems with the guitars fret. For a game that cost $170 and peripherals 
 that cost $80 seperately they should not be having problems like this. Guitar hero guitars were 
 half the price and had no problems. If the peripherals are so expensive and easily breakable then 
 they should definetely have more than a 60 day warranty on them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimsonknightz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I played the drums all through middle and highschool, and even though in the last couple years 
 I have let my set collect dust, Rock Band brought me back into the world of music, with a flash. 
 I let my brother play the guitar, even though in all the Guitar Hero games I love the guitar, and 
 I took up the drums. I had to shake off the dust, but it was so worth it. I have so much fun with 
 the kit and I think the game is amazing. The drums is very fair when it comes to the difficulty, 
 but it was a little awkward at first because the cymbals are usually higher and the snare is usually 
 lower. All that aside, the drums is a great improvement. I love this game and think they did a 
 great job with it. I look forward to all the new songs they are going to put out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mabumania
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  To start of, if you are not familiar with how this games work, notes come down from a bridge and 
 when they reach a point you respectively strike (or hit or sing) the right note. You continue doing 
 this for all the songs until the end. There are 4 types of difficulties, from a slow pace beginning 
 mode, to a very fast higher demanding mode.
  
  I've recently got Rockband, and it is amazingly fun, with a lot of songs (50-60 not including the 
 extras) in a wide variety from 60's music to current music. Also, great multiplayer ability seeing 
 how up to 4 people can play either locally or online. It also allows you (and demands) to create 
 a character.
  The game comes with a drum set, a fender style guitar and a mic for doing karaoke. To link all 
 this together it also comes with a USB Hub.
  
  BASICS
  
  The guitar in Rockband does not change from GH except you get solos, aside from that it still is 
 the same. You hit the notes, use your star power (now called overdrive) and whammy to get extra 
 points. What does change and add to the game are the new instruments which are:
  
  -The Drums: Are basically 4 pads and a pedal. The pedal is interesting because instead of being 
 notes coming down its normally a bar in the measure which you have to strike with your feet. It 
 really gets you moving since its nonstop moving of arms and feet. Normally a lot of fun but requires 
 a lot of beat, and it tends to be really repetitive in some songs (but quite challenging none the 
 less) .
  
  -The Mic for singing: Which is basically karaoke. If you are not familiar with singing, or you've 
 never tried it, you will come to realize how much you probably suck! Smile However, it still is 
 a lot of fun. The lyrics come down below a bar, and a bar it self is shown to tell the singer what 
 pitch to sing it at. Also at the receiving end (where you normally strike, in this case sing) there 
 is an arrow which tells you at which pitching you are singing. Something nice about this incorporation 
 is that it allows you to see how far you are from hitting the notes and in case you can not hit 
 the notes because they are too high or too low, you can sing them by octaves.
  
  STORY LINE
  
  The game has an interesting "campaign" or story line. One can choose to solo 
 the game playing one instrument or play in a band (which you must create) . No matter which one 
 you choose, the point is to beat the songs and unlock more songs/stages/items/locations. As you 
 proceed through the game the songs get more challenging as well as more unlockables become available 
 ranging from clothing to instruments to songs.
  
  Soloing: In the solo mode you can create a character and choose an instrument for that character 
 (this character can only play one instrument, except for guitar, since guitar and bass are consider 
 the same in this game) . The point is to unlock more items, go through, acquire money and ultimately 
 beat all the songs.
  
  Multiplayer: This mode has a twist. The point of this mode is also to unlock all items and beat 
 the songs, but also to collect fans and sign record deals with companies. To do this, the whole 
 group must play well and synchronized in order to get higher scores.
  
  MISC
  
  Basically, this game is meant to enjoy with friends. Not really designed for solo play, but either 
 way you choose it is very enjoyable. There is also a mode called tug-o-war where you play head 
 to head against someone to see who is better, but there really isn't much there except for bragging 
 rights.
  There is also small animations just like in GH while playing, but one rarely pays attention because 
 the more challenging it gets the harder it is to look away from the notes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timma1083
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  With Harmonix and RedOctane splitting and RedOctane getting the Guitar Hero franchise, we could 
 only wonder where this left Harmonix. Well Harmonix came back with a bang and created the best 
 rock music rhythm game in history. And that game is Rock Band.
  
  To start off, Rock Band has a lot going for it when it comes to graphics. There not the best in 
 history, and there not really competing with games like Halo or Bioshock, but what they can't make 
 up in technical design they can make up with special effects. The special effects for the stages 
 are amazing, and are almost like something you'd see at a real concert. The color scheme can also 
 change to show mood, for example it can go black and white. The characters all look great, and 
 when it comes to how the lip syncing and fingers for the guitars are, Its almost like your watching 
 a professional sit there and play right in front of you. The drummer does an amazing job convincing 
 you he's actually playing what he's supposed to be, which hasn't really appeared much in the Guitar 
 Hero games.
  
  Harmonix has definitely outdone themselves with the set list. However, there are only 58 songs 
 on the disc. But they have kept there promise of weekly downloadable content. Combine DLC and the 
 on-disc songs and you can get 100's of songs by the time they release Rock Band 2. I already have 
 82 at the time of this review by Downloading all the songs up to December 11. However, the on-disc 
 songs are some of the greatest ever put into a rhythm game. (Don't Fear) The Reaper by Blue Oyster 
 Cult, Enter Sandman by Metallica, Learn to Fly by Foo Fighters, Wanted Dead or Alive by Bon Jovi, 
 Highway Star by Deep Purple, and many more. Overall, Rock Band has the best downloadable content 
 plan ever created, and combining that with the set list and you get a track list that is possibly 
 the best in history.
  
  Rock Band does a fantastic job in making a multiplayer themed game fun for 1 player. Sadly, there 
 is no Bass Career. However, you can do a Guitar, Vocals, or Drums career. In it, you do what you 
 did in Guitar Hero. Move through sets of songs that slowly get harder as you go down the list. 
 When you finish a set, you unlock another set. Simple. They did take a new approach to the Bonus 
 songs, a very welcoming change. You start off with one bonus song, once you beat it, you get another. 
 Once you beat that, you get another song, and so on and so forth. This way, you don't need to waste 
 your money on buying songs. Instead, you can focus your money and creating your character. Creating 
 you character is actually really fun. There are four styles to pick from: Rock, Metal, Goth, and 
 Punk. You can pick clothes from these styles and mix and match to your liking. You can get tattoos, 
 face paint, and different hair styles aswell. You can also add art to your guitar and choose how 
 your paint job will look. You can change the color of almost anything you buy, making possibilities 
 endless as to how you can make your character look like a monstrosity.
  
  Multiplayer is what it should be, Amazing. When your playing with your friends, you can name your 
 band, create your characters, and all that. But the way they approached the Band World Tour mode 
 is revolutionary. Once you pick a hometown, you start playing gigs. Gigs earn you stars, money, 
 and fans. The more fans you get, the better. the more gigs you complete the bigger stadiums you 
 get to play at. You can get a car, a van, and a jet. This allows you to go play all around the 
 world, whether you want to play in Seattle or in Tokyo, or even Moscow. But what makes this so 
 special is that small factor of you playing with your friends. This game really brings you all 
 together in a bond thats really hard to explain.
  
  A few small problems keep Rock Band from being worth a 10 however. There are some hardware concerns. 
 The strum bar on the Fender Strat doesn't seem very comfortable at all if your strumming down. 
 There have been reports of the drum set breaking, and the kick pedal breaking. This hasn't happened 
 to me, but its still a serious risk that could happen. Another problem I have is with the Band 
 World Tour mode. In it, as you get farther into it, you have to keep going up in Difficulty. Now 
 for some really good players, this is no problem. But for more casual or not as experienced players 
 who seek refuge in Medium, they'll soon need to step up. Its especially hard for drummers who are 
 just learning.
  
  Overall, Rock Band is the rhythm game God. Its without a doubt the best game to ever come to the 
 genre, and is easily worth the steep price tag of $170. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingcole225
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  first is the mic. i dont know about u but i wood rather have it be just words
  than just pitch. i just got it today for christmas and the mic cannot take my bros singing. hes 
 not bad at all he just likes singing at a high pitched voice. u no jokingly. but it just fails 
 him immediately. and the mic on expert is literally impossible too. for the mic u need to have 
 the exact voice that they sing at. EXACT. and the drums are a little too hard. i mean i dont play 
 drums at all. today was my intro to them. and it was on a fake drum. but when i was playing on 
 easy on career u no just to get good until i cood play on med and then hard. it said that if i 
 didnt play at a higher difficulty then i wood get no fans. THAT IS BS. bcuz now i have to play 
 at medium and its not fun. its too many notes at the same time. i mean cmon. the only thing i dont 
 like about the guitar is that the strum bar doesnt click when u push it, it just springs back. 
 which sucks bcuz its a lot harder to play the same note a lot. BUT OTHERWISE.... rock band is amazing 
 the drum fills are fun the BIG ROCK ENDINGS r fun (these both are where u get to play anything 
 u want and u get points, IT ALWAYS SOUNDS GOOD TOO, so u feel good bout urself) and the fx on the 
 guitar is fun. just wish they wood change the dificulty prob and the mic pitch prob. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lizzz160
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is an awesome game! My two cousins, my brother, and I played it last weekend. At first 
 it took awhile to get used to the guitar. The only problem with it was that it didn't make the 
 clicking noise like the guitar that I know for guitar hero. We also hooked up the guitar we used 
 for guitar hero as the bass. The singing is awesome. Just like karaoke. The easy setting is really 
 fun, you can sing horribly and it gives you a great score! I thought I would suck at the singing 
 part! But I belted those lyrics out like a mad woman and got myself a 100% on Paranoid by Black 
 Sabbath! The drumming is a whole other story... I didn't realize how hard it would be, it might 
 just be me though. I was horrible... anytime there were the same notes consecutively , I just couldn't 
 do it. I guess I just have to play it over and over before I can get better. Another cool thing 
 you can do in Rock Band is save your band members. If they are doing completely horrible and they 
 fail (which means they can no longer play) , then you use your "energy" (or star power if you want 
 to use guitar hero terms) to save them. The Tour mode on Rock Band is amazing. You can go to a 
 bunch of different cities and gain fans and funds (which you can use to buy clothing and accessories 
 ) . The more fans you have, the more cities you unlock. But once you reach a certain amount of fans 
 while playing on easy... you have to go up a difficulty and when it comes to the drums... it requires 
 a lot of saving. 
  Rock band is a very addicting game, and I think everyone should own it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greendrg654
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is the 'next generation' when it comes to rythm games. with its classic guitar hero based 
 gameplay those who have played the guitar hero series will feel right at home on this game. overall 
 the music list was descent, a few songs on there i would chose to remove, but overall the song 
 list was great, and with the downloadable content on the 360 and ps3 versions the song lists become 
 even better. the three different types of controllers broke through the basic plane of guitar hero 
 by adding: vocals, which overall i felt had a good response time and i found it entertaining when 
 i didn't know the lyrics to a song and just began to hum to the rythm and it said i was hitting 
 everyword. the drum system, which was overall a good system, although after having a friends little 
 brother play the drums they began to become less responsive so i had to use an actual snare srumstick. 
 and finally the classic guitar controller, nothing really new here from guitar hero except the 
 addition set of buttons down the neck to make it seem more realisticly air guitar, also after some 
 wear and tear became less responsive. The character customization was really intrecate, although 
 would like some more styles of music for the musicians, and more clothes would have been nice but 
 overall the musician customization was awesome. With all 4 controllers going at once one would 
 think the graphics would be less than average, but with the 360 and ps3's computing systems, the 
 graphics were amazing even in the thick of a beastly guitar solo. so overall the game is a real 
 good buy if you have the money to shell out, but still if you feel like spreading the cost with 
 a few friends, i would highly suggest this game for the sake of acting like a real rock band. just 
 keep rockin' and rock ya'lls way into the new year.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thirtytwoshoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a game created by the makers of Guitar Hero and I feel it certainly lives up to the 
 Guitar Hero name, and in fact it kind of surpasses it. Basically the guys down at Harmonix said 
 "Why don't we try different instruments?" And that's about all you need to know about this game. 
 If I had to say one bad thing about this game it would be the drums. Although they look like simplest 
 instrument in this game they have the longest learning curve. I cannot tell you the amount of time 
 I spent screaming because of the difficulty I had with the drums. But aside from that every thing 
 plays great, the instruments respond perfectly and they just feel good to play. If you had problems 
 with anything game play wise in Guitar Hero it has been fixed this time around.
  And another great about this game is the massive amount of songs. Usually when I get into arguments 
 about whether any of the Guitar Hero games are over hyped I usually complain about the lack of 
 songs. But this time around there is 58 songs all from original artist which make for endless replay 
 ability. But of course not all of these songs are new, most have been seen in another Harmonix 
 titles. The graphics are also fantastic, if you are skeptical about whether video games are art 
 or not just take a look at some of the screen shots from this game. Every where you look you are 
 bound to be amazed; this game looks amazing even in a menu or loading screen. The backgrounds are 
 fantastic and they've captured the look and feel of being at an actual concert in every frame.
 
  Lets face it; this is the best music game to date. No matter who you are you will enjoy every 
 moment of this game. Whether you're playing alone or with a friend you're going to enjoy every 
 moment of this game. Both online and offline modes are perfect and I feel that it's worth its hefty 
 price tag. I will be playing this game well into 2009 and if you don't like this game you probably 
 have no taste in video games what so ever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Rock Band on release day, and have still been having lots of fun with it. When I first 
 bought it, I couldn't stop playing the drums. Took a little while, but got past easy and worked 
 my way up to medium and now I can do the easier songs on 'hard' difficultly. Playing the guitar 
 is very fun too. I hadn't played GH2 or GH3 so this was a good opportunity to have a game like 
 those. Having tried GH3 at best buy, Rock Band is lot more fun to me.
  
  The production qualities of Rock Band are very polished, which immerses the player into thinking 
 "I'm a Rock Star". When you are doing good and the crowd is pumped you can hear the crowed singing 
 to the lyrics. The instruments provide enough difficulty that will keep you busy for a long time. 
 At least for me, I've still got a lot of improving to do on guitar and drums. The way you can use 
 star power to help 'save' your fellow band members is innovative too. That has helped many of us 
 too, since pushing your abilities and skill level is the only way to progress in the World Band 
 Tour.
  
  When playing with your family or your buds online it's a blast - someone can play vocals, bass, 
 guitar and drums. It's fun switching between the various instruments, and keeps it interesting. 
 My girlfriend really likes this game, too, and has allowed us to play together. It's the one game 
 that she's really grown to like on my 360 so that's a big plus - she won't tell me to turn it off. 
 :-)
  
  There are a couple things I wish could have been different in Rock Band:
  
  1. Online World Band Tour - right now World Band Tour is local to the people who can play in your 
 house. You can't join up with your friends online. I read just recently that the developers had 
 planned to add it in this release, but I guess they ran out of time. I really hope it gets into 
 a future patch.
  
  2. The ability to create one band member tied to a xbox profile and use that band member on the 
 different instruments. The way it's done currently you have to create a unique band member for 
 each instrument (or let the game choose a default member) .
  
  Overall, I have to give this game a 10. When you see the credits after finishing a tour you realize 
 how much work went into this game -- a lot! It's some of the most fun I've had. It's really making 
 me think about beats, and about improving my guitar and drumming skills. When I'm at work I talk 
 about this game and daydream about when I'll be able to play it next. It's really addicting fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Note, I'm reviewing this after playing guitar only. I only got the disc because I'm only interested 
 in playing the guitar part and leave the drums and singing to my friends.
  
  Anyways, living in Boston for college, its hard not to avoid hearing news about Harmonix and their 
 games, and for good reason. Harmonix is the master of music games, and they proved that with Guitar 
 Hero I and II. With Rock Band, they take their proved formula to the next level.
  
  First off we'll get the lesser parts out of the way. The look of Rock Band is a lot less cartoony 
 than Guitar Hero. You start by making your own band in a huge amount of customization. It's comparable 
 to Forza 2's car graphics, you can just do a ton to edit the appearance of your band. The next 
 thing that is a much needed improvement from Guitar Hero is the animation system. While watching 
 the characters and crowd on screen, you'll see everyone moving as if they were in a band. Their 
 movements change depending on the parts and tempo of he song (sometimes though it doesn't really 
 match well) and you'll see the guitarist and vocalist singing together during chorus and stuff 
 like that. It's a LOT better than the likes of Guitar Hero where your guitarist and vocalist loop 
 the same animations, your bassist just sorta bumps up and down, and your drummer is a robot.
  
  Moving on, the songs on Rock Band aren't as good as Guitar Hero, I'll say that. Thats because 
 they're not all geared to guitar playing, like Faith No More's "Epic" there are just big parts 
 where you don't do anything. So if playing through the game on solo tour you'll be a bit underwhelmed 
 by some of the songs.
  
  The difficulty is a lot easier than Guitar Hero. Playing it I was wondering if it was just Harmonix's 
 attempt to tap into the casual market or if Guitar Hero note charts were just bull. I've come to 
 find that its pretty much a mixture of the two. At parts where there should be multi note chords, 
 Rock Band will have single notes but still in Guitar Hero some of the note charts are complete 
 garbage IE "3's and 7's" on hard/expert setting. 
  
  Another difference that doesn't really matter is the timing for the note window is less forgiving 
 than Guitar Hero, this doesn't get in the way usually. The only time I really noticed it was playing 
 Guitar Hero and Rock Band side by side. 
  
  That being said, I just like the feel of Rock Band a bit more than Guitar Hero. I'm a loyal Harmonix 
 fan and will stand by their games with pride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conman12345
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  After Harmonix got out of making the Guitar hero games and started making this I was a little skeptical 
 about it. I mean come on who wants to play the drums and bass. But after playing at my friends 
 house and then buying it my opinion has changed immensely. My favorite instrument in this game 
 has got to be the drums and Harmonix has made it really really fun. It is pretty challenging right 
 now but I know I'll get better (hopefully) . Singing isnt my thing but I try every once and awhile 
 on Rock Band and that is pretty fun too. Even the bass is pretty fun. Since i've pretty much mastered 
 guitar on Guitar Hero all the songs arent that difficult to beat on Rockband on guitar but drums 
 will be a challenge. I know I will be playing this game with friends for years and it will be an 
 instant classic at parties. Overall this is a great game that gives what games are suppose to give. 
 Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacemmhbrah
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  This is the most fun game I have ever played. I used to be a Guitar Hero addict and own 2 & 3 but 
 after playing Rock Band I want to just get rid of them. The Drums are my favorite out of the 4 
 instruments. Everyone says its dumb because you cant do Band World Tour Online but Harmonix has 
 told that they are making an update for the near future which will allow this. The songs on this 
 game are amazing and already have 3x as much content as Guitar Hero 3 and GH3 has been out a month 
 longer than Rock Band. In Guitar Hero 3 you are stuck playing with the same old boring characters 
 over and over...
  In Rock Band you can create your own rocker in which you can change everything to his height, weight, 
 name, hometown, face, hair, eyebrows, eye color, facial hair, hats, shirts, shoes, pants, tattoos, 
 face paint, makeup, bracelets, belts, and you can even give your guitar a custom paint job!!!
 
  I would recommend buying Rock Band to ANYBODY. It is the best game out there right now and even 
 though its 170$ it is SOOOOOO worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8smokes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Rock Bamd is the new Guitar Hero but with tons of new features. Rock comes equiped with a drum 
 set, a karaoke mike, and a guitar (which can be used as a bass (Note: This ONLY comes all together 
 in the Rock Band BUNDLE) ) . The drums are definately the most fun and/or the vocals. It adds a little 
 more seperation from the Guitar Hero franchise. But don't get me wrong, while Guitar Hero throws 
 players in an all-out competition to see who can play the hardest songs, and who has the craziest 
 skills, Rock Band is more of a "have fun with your friends" game. There are 3 different modes that 
 you can choose from in the main menu screen. Solo Career, Band World Tour, and multiplayer (there 
 is also a online multiplayer mode, so technically there are 4 modes, but for argument's sake, there's 
 3 modes) . Solo Career is basically self explanatory. You create a character (yes characters are 
 customizable with HUNDREDS of items and intruments to buy. But prices are REAL-LIfe so a shirt 
 will cost anywhere from 10-250$. And small bar gigs pay little, so to make hundreds of thousands, 
 you really need to play in the BIG stadiums. YOu choose your characters home town and you start 
 there. There are 3 establishments in each city. But you'll need a van before you can travel to 
 any other destination. Next there is Band World Tour. You and your buds can create a band ( 4 members 
 max: bassist, guitarist, drummer, and singer) . You then create your band name (assuming everyone 
 has already made a character, and then you can choose which city you start in. Rock band, in my 
 opinion is not worth the money if you are just going to play solo guitar, or any other instrument 
 solo. If you don't have friends that come over often, then it takes a whole aspect of the game, 
 dunks it in gasoline, sets it on fire, and throws it out the window. You get the most fun out of 
 the game, by playing with your friends. And another note: if your used to playing with the guitar 
 hero controlers, it is a very hard transition to go to the Rock Bamd controller. It will take some 
 time getting used to it. And finally, the online experience! Online is basically a 1 on 1 match 
 between two players. Of course you can choose instrument, difficulty, and how many songs you play, 
 but it just isn't as great without buddies to play it with. So in conclusion, I reccomend this 
 game only if you really have people to play it with. It is a multiplayer game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid_xbox_360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 20, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  Say your prayers little one
  don't forget, my son
  to include everyone
  
  tuck you in, warm within
  keep you free from sin
  till the sandman he comes
  
  sleep with 
 one eye open
  gripping your pillow tight
  
  exit light
  enter night
  take my hand
  off to never never land
  part of Enter sand man lyric By METALLICA
  
  Well folks you don, t 
 know what Rock Band is all about . you can, t understand it unless you pickup your Guitar or headset 
 and start rockin, .My first trial was METALLICA ,s Enter the sand man. Oh my god you can, t imagine 
 that situation . First of all I, m an ultra fan of METALLICA . well my madness for being James Hetfield 
 conduct me to
  Guitar Hero series . but honestly that wasn, t pure . but forget all those times. Now there is Rock 
 Band . first I thought this game does not worth the cost. whole package 170$ is cost of nearly 
 3 games. But after hearing James hetfield ,s voice in RockBand, s Videos I emptied My pockets with 
 pleasure and truthfully that was a good act. 
  I can still remember My best score as a singer in Enter sand man . the game is really awesome . 
 the graphics are stunning and motion capture has done well .
  The game is really good at texture due to free space in both 360 8.5GB DL DVD and PS3 Blue ray 
 . the lighting is as realistic as a real Disco.
  Everything is ready for you to Rock. The game has large number of Full Albums as well as lot, s 
 of downloadable content and albums every week and month . well I confess ,I hadn, t buy the specific 
 guitar or drum and I played the game with Xbox 360 ,s normal game pad and headset. But don, t worry 
 no problem gonna happen. The feeling is still pure and full of enjoyment . also the game difficulty 
 is reasonable not like that goddam guitar hero 3 . But wait, there is still some challenging moment 
 but those moments are not frustrating like the other musical games. My favorite act in Rock Band 
 is singing . but also Drum feels like a drum and the hardest part is the guitar itself . my eyesight 
 is 
  a bit weak and I can, t and wont be good at guitar . you may consider me as a rookie in musical 
 games which is a truth but I promise even if it, s your first time, hit this game. 
  Regardless of the other stuff in Rock Band which has mentioned in the Gamespot, s Full review I 
 just have one friendly advise for you . this game worth your money and your time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  A great game. How can you not love it? If you love Guitar Hero, or Karoke Revoloution then you 
 will love this game. It is great. But not only does it have the guitar and mic. but it has a drum 
 set! Which is a great addition.
  The song selection is amazing. If you are a rock and roll fantatic (which I am) then you should 
 probably recognize the songs on these lists. Ranging from Bon Jovi, to Foo Fighters, to The Who, 
 it has a great selection. One of the strongest points in the game.
  The controls are great. I am going to skip over the guitar and mic. and get right to the new control. 
 The drum set of course! God almighty the drum set is amazing! If you can play Expert on the drums 
 in this game, then I am sure you can in real life. The drums, although fun, are not easy in anyway 
 at all. Even the Easy Mode for the drums presents some sort of difficulty. Although they are fun, 
 they are a challenge. However, I am not saying that is a bad thing. I am saying it is a GREAT thing! 
 
  Now although the game is great, the price tag is not. 170$ to own this. Very pricey. That is over 
 half of what the XBox 360 costs alone. Just think about that for a second. Although you do get 
 all these cool controllers and a great game, that price tag is a big downer. So you have to get 
 the money before you can enjoy this.
  So if you got the money, then enjoy. If you don't, you can either wait for it to drop in price, 
 or I don't know.... Work for the money. Or go home crying to mommy. if you do that last thing, then 
 I pity you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake6phw
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Vocals, guitar, drums, and bass. What more do I need to say? Most of us will never come closer 
 to playing in an actual band than we will while playing Rock Band. Rock Band takes everything that 
 was great about playing Guitar Hero (namely, the guitar controller) adds in two more ways to rise 
 to rock and roll stardom (microphone, drums) and lets you do all of those at one time (with friends 
 and online) to create your own rock and roll band. Rock Band is the first game by Harmonix since 
 the split with Red Octane after making Guitar Hero II and it is clear that the Harmonix team had 
 all of the creative talent. Rock Band features an excellent soundtrack, the best yet to be seen 
 in a game of this type and promises to offer weekly downloadable content to keep the game from 
 getting old. The soundtrack features a good collection of songs from all over the rock spectrum 
 from metal to punk to good old rock'n'roll and there isn't a song in the game that is not a blast 
 to play. The controllers are simple to use, making it easy for anyone to jump in an rock out; and 
 they are made very well and all feel sturdy and well put-together. Rock Band is clearly a game 
 that is MEANT to be played with friends because the solo career mode just isn't as good as the 
 co-op band world tour mode. The solo career is the same sort of linear song progression that is 
 you have played any of the Guitar Hero games, you will be well familiar with. The band world tour 
 mode however is an all new experience, is really fun to play, and adds a sort of band comradery 
 in that you want to encourage you band mates to perform better or move up to higher difficulties 
 to help out the band. In the band world tour mode, you create a band, create your members (from 
 2-4 players, you always need the leader to play) , and choose a home city. Your home city is where 
 you will begin the game, playing at small clubs and building a fan base until you can get an agent, 
 score some record deals, and before you know it you'll be rocking out at huge arenas. The online 
 mode is a tad disappointing in that it doesn't have an online band world tour mode, but you can 
 still play co-op songs online with players from around the world. All together, Rock Band is an 
 experience that all music lovers will enjoy, is easy for anyone to get involved in, a blast to 
 play, and without a doubt the best game to come out this year. Check out my top ten games to come 
 out in 2007 blog to see the other games from 2007 that I recommend you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drewshen
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 5, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  "Sed ut perspiciatis unde omnis iste natus error sit voluptatem accusantium doloremque laudantium, 
 totam rem aperiam, eaque ipsa quae ab illo inventore veritatis et quasi architecto beatae vitae 
 dicta sunt explicabo. Nemo enim ipsam voluptatem quia voluptas sit aspernatur aut odit aut fugit, 
 sed quia consequuntur magni dolores eos qui ratione voluptatem sequi nesciunt. Neque porro quisquam 
 est, qui dolorem ipsum quia dolor sit amet, consectetur, adipisci velit, sed quia non numquam eius 
 modi tempora incidunt ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat voluptatem. Ut enim ad minima 
 veniam, quis nostrum exercitationem ullam corporis suscipit laboriosam, nisi ut aliquid ex ea commodi 
 consequatur? Quis autem vel eum iure reprehenderit qui in ea voluptate velit esse quam nihil molestiae 
 consequatur, vel illum qui dolorem eum fugiat quo voluptas nulla pariatur?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beltbite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band, Guitar Hero Competitor. First of all lets get down to the gameplay. How does it play? 
 just like guitar hero except instead of little butons it is little rectangle gems to symbolize 
 the notes. You hold down the fret button (Red, Gree, Blue, Orang, Yellow) and strum the strum bar and 
 bam your playing rock band. Now what makes it different? Well there is more than two instrument 
 that can be played. There is Guitar, Bass, Drums, And Vocals. The drums are kind of the same as 
 guitar you have your red, green, yellow, and blue pad. But for the orange is the kick pedal and 
 it comes up as a thick orange line on the screen. They said if you can play the drums on expert 
 you can play the drums in real life (Grant it you would need helo on your timing and beeat) . Four 
 players can play at once. each doing there part or have three players and have one of you guys 
 do the vocals and a intrument. 
  
  I started playing the solo tour, and I thought well atleast its another guitar hero. but as soon 
 as I got into the first menu. You can create your own rock character. From the name, where he is 
 from, The hair the face, His Rock style (Punk, Goth, Metal, Rock) . When you start doing the tours 
 you earn money that can be used to buy new intruments, new clothes, change his hair style, give 
 make up, buy tattoos. Now they have there shirts hoodys etc.. But some shirts allow you to put 
 whatever art design you. and you create is like Tony Hawk Underground 2 (I believe) . You have multiple 
 layers and you create each layer putting Letters, Numbers, Pictures, Designs. Not only that you 
 can put the same design on you guitar and change the color. Back to solo tour. After you beat the 
 solo tour. Where do you go from there?. Well you can go up a difficulty higher. You can buy new 
 music on the online content and play them in the world tour mode, Or you could hook up with friends 
 and start a band. 
  
  I remember playing guitar hero III and playing cooperative play with a friend. It was just like 
 playing the solo play but with a extra friend and possibly alittle different of track orders. So 
 I came to expect that In rock band. After you assemble your band. You can choose the name and edit 
 you logo just like with the shirt. You first start out in little venues as you play more and more 
 and get more stars on your rank soon the world starts opening up. There are the usual setlist of 
 of playing the tracks but there then are "mystery setlist" which are songs randomly pick usually 
 2-3. and you have to play through them with out failing now can you change the difficulty. also 
 crowd pleaser, and make your own setlist. you win money, fans. You can check out the leader boarders 
 to were your band ranks in the world. 
  
  Now the little extra Stuff. The downloadable content. On the games launch there more than 15 tracks 
 to download including Queens of the stone age and Metallica. On a average of two weeks since they 
 have been releasing song since then. With every song downloaded you can use them in the single 
 play career or use it in the band world tour. 
  
  Overall This game is a good game to live your fantasy rock star life or a have a party to have 
 fun. Either way it won't let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chloewen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Do you like Guitar Hero? Guess what, I don't really care. How about Madden? Nope, still don't care. 
 Harvest Moon? Ok, you just have bad taste in games. That said, Rock Band, if you have friends/family 
 close by, will be the most fun playing a game that you will have for quite a while.
  
  I own GH2 for the 360, and I found it very addictive for quite a few months. After beginning on 
 medium, moving my way up to hard, then finally expert, I had a video game experience that was unlike 
 any other that I had since River City Ransom on the NES. I was going to say Battletoads, but that 
 was an experience that I'd like to forget. Anyway, I decided to rent GH3 before I bought it, just 
 to be sure that I would continue to get lost in the gameplay that I loved so much. After renting 
 the game for a week and finishing it on expert in 3 days, I found myself putting the game down 
 and returning it early as I was bored (I didn't end up purchasing it either) . I loved the idea, 
 but it just wasn't fun or challenging anymore. I needed a new experience, one that made me excited 
 to put on a game before I even started to play it. Cue Rock Band. Should I comment, in detail, 
 like many have done already on specifics of the game? No, because I would just be echoing on already 
 know facts at nausea. A quick run through will suffice.
  
  Gameplay:
  Solid. Very similar to GH. Guitar part is exactly the same with minor changes. Hammer-on notes 
 are half the size, which I found to be a welcomed change. When you enable Overdrive (Star Power 
 for GH vets) , you can still hit power ups, which was something I felt was very frustrating about 
 the GH franchise. Obviously the guitar sections are not as difficult as GH, but for people like 
 my wife, it is nice to see people actually using four buttons and sometimes five when they could 
 not use it on GH. This is why more people will enjoy playing along.
  
  Singing is very responsive and a lot more demanding than I had expected. I don't want to toot my 
 own horn, but I belong to our city choir, so I know how to hold a tune. I had never tried any of 
 the KR games before, so it was nice to see that their was a high level of difficulty on hard, let 
 alone on expert, a difficulty not many will find they will be able to do.
  
  Drums are the obviously the treat of the bunch. I have been playing guitar for 13 years now, so 
 when I picked up GH2 for the first time, it wasn't as an amazing experience as it was for my wife 
 because I can play all the songs on a real guitar. However, I have never played drums before in 
 my life, so it is really nice to have the same feeling my wife gets on guitar when I play the drums, 
 like I am actually playing the real instrument. We have only had the game for 5 days now, and I 
 am already the hard difficulty. This is the most fun I have had with a music game.
  
  Sound:
  Does anything really need to be said about this actually? The song choice I think it 
 superb, and the ability to download more makes this a must own. Love the selection.
  Multiplayer:
  A++++. No game comes close to the amount of fun you will have playing Rock Band. 
 Last night, I was playing drums, my wife on guitar, and her friend on vocals. The times where we 
 failed felt just as disappointing as it does in real life. The more you communicate with your fellow 
 band-mates the better. Making sure you let people know you will need bailing out soon, or telling 
 someone to save their Overdrive for a tough section ahead makes the game a lot more fun. I frequently 
 tell my wife during playing that she's doing a great job as does she. Having this much communication 
 during a game makes the game worthwhile.
  
  Instruments:
  The kick-pedal has not busted yet, and I've been giving it quite the beating; so I'm fairly positive 
 that mine will hold up.
  
  After two days, my guitar strummer like many others, gave out. However, I decided to try the online 
 fix for it (taking apart the guitar) , and voila, fixed guitar strummer! The feeling of the guitar 
 itself it great, and I feel it is a huge improvement on the GH guitars. The neck is not as thick, 
 so people with smaller hands don't have as much difficulty. The five buttons at the top of the 
 fret board is a beautiful addition that allows for more flare, but also an added challenge. The 
 guitar itself is not as bulky and is therefore lighter than other toy guitars on the market.
  
  Overall:
  This is just a fantastic experience. Yes, the broken guitar is a frustration, but 
 this is a risk everyone takes when you purchase an item at or near the release date. You can either 
 send the guitar back and receive a new one, or simply open it up and do the fix yourself. I would 
 opt for the latter as the entire process (unscrewing, fixing, putting plate back on) takes about 
 20 minutes to complete (the fix itself takes about 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desolator666789
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a truly amzing game, its just so damn fun and the gameplay mroe than justifies the 
 hefty pricepoint. The game just makes you feel like your part of the band.
  Now playing alone is fine, but its way more fun with friends alongside you. The online play is 
 cool to, but its just not the same as being togther in the one room. Playing bass by yourself isn't 
 all that glamorous but with some mates you feel like you're an important part of the band.
  Unlike co-op in Guitar Hero where have to share a rock meter and must start the song over if you 
 miss to many notes, Rock Band gives everyone a individual meter and if yours run out its not over 
 for the band and infact its not over for you either. Your bandmates have the power to bring you 
 back into tthe song if they play well enpugh which is just really fun to do. The only flaws I've 
 found are no band world tour over live and the drumkit. Which amongest my friends has had a tendency 
 to break. Mine seems to be holding up fine though.
  With all the dlc flooding in this is easily one the best available this holiday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Two distinct things are brand new experiences for Rock Band. The first and more obvious is the 
 drumming system. Complicated and engrossing, the rhythmic gymnastics needed to master this percussion 
 system are many and great. Non-drummers will come out the other end of this game listening to music 
 in a different way  hearing that offbeat kickdrum and applauding complicated drum fills. The only 
 major problem seems almost unavoidable; enthusiastic as you'll be, it's easy to drown out the simulated 
 drum parts with your very real banging of the pads.
  
  The second distinct experience here is the group dynamic. While the Guitar Hero series hinted at 
 this, Rock Band fully embraces the idea by gearing all the songs and the brunt of the new gameplay 
 at people who are playing together. A lengthy and varied World Tour mode lets you build a band 
 from nothing into the next big thing. Even the moment-to-moment gameplay is geared towards unison 
 playing and cooperation, and each band member can save the performance from disaster by yanking 
 failed instruments back in. It's only disappointing that, as of launch, online play doesn't include 
 the full World Tour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SinisterRhino93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Rock band is definatly worth your 170$. This game is the best party game ever made. You can play 
 the drums, mic., and gutitar. You can even make your own character . I recommend getting this game 
 at your local gamestop. The guitar is basically the same as guitar hero except you have 5 buttons 
 at the lower part of guitar for solos. The drums are my favoite insturment. But you need to be 
 careful with the pedal it can break. Rock bands songs are awesome to. They are realsing new songs 
 for download via Xbox live. This game has a lot more value than the guitar hero games but i still 
 love gutar hero to death. If you like this game you should also get guitar hero 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  So Rock Band is a new rhythm game from Harmonix. The big issue is the price tag, all $170 of it, 
 as well as the fact you can only buy either the game stand-alone or the bundle as of current. Let 
 me tell you, if you have reliable friends that love to hang out this is worth every buck, it's 
 also a lot more fun than Guitar Hero III in every way. I'll go over the Pros and Cons, then go 
 through my categories of GameSpots standard Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, Value, and Replayability.
 
  
  Pros
  -Drums are a fun new addition
  -Guitar is a bit easier than on Guitar Hero, which is great
  -Amazing when you have 3 friends 
 over
  -New downloadable content almost every week
  -Band World Tour is fun
  
  Cons
  -Chance of some bundles having malfunctional instruments
  -Some minor issues
  -If you don't 
 know how to play drums, it's a bit challenging at first
  -Strum bar on the Rock Band guitar doesn't feel right
  
  Gameplay: Obviously Rock Band is very 
 similar to Guitar Hero, any of the installments. The difference is here you have a microphone, 
 a guitar (as well as bass, but that doesn't have a solo tour) , and drums. The guitar plays the 
 same as Guitar Hero (GH) so you hit the scrolling notes by tapping the fret then strumming, easy 
 enough. Microphone decides on the pitch of your voice, and in case of no pitch, the timing of your 
 voice. And then the drums basically give you 4 drum pads and a pedal which each are associated 
 with a different note. Bass, guitar, and drums all have the notes scrolling down, which you then 
 hit the notes with the correct point on your instrument when it reaches the bottom, and you get 
 points. Streaks lead to multiplies, which leads to a higher score. You also have Overdrive (GH's 
 Star Power) , in which the players can get double the multiplier, or even revive teammates when 
 playing in a band. Now that the basics are done, I can get into the depth. As far as single-player 
 goes, you have solo tours for every instrument except bass, which you basically play through 58 
 songs to complete, exceeding in difficulty as you go.
  
  The solo tour brings you through a variety of locales. In band world tour, it's laid out a bit 
 differently in that you play through venues multiple times, you can get fans, and you have a bit 
 more variety. Throughout these modes you'll get money to buy new shirts, pants, boots, and accessories, 
 and don't forget you can make your own character as soon as you start up the tour. Then as far 
 as multiplayer goes, you can Tug of War (trade off notes, the more you hit the further it goes 
 to your side and whoever ends with the meter on your side wins) , or just a score duel (play same 
 song, higher score wins) . Right now there isn't an online Band World Tour, which is dissapointing, 
 but you can always call over your friends till they add this in (which is rumored to be added in) . 
 There's a bunch of leaderboards to keep you playing, and you'll have a lot on your hands to finish.
 
  
  Graphics: Great. All the venues are astounding with great pyro effects at the end of your concert. 
 The characters look great, as well as the fans listening to your song. As far as animation goes, 
 your characters actually rock out, unlike in Guitar Hero.
  
  Sound: Fabulous sound. Most of the songs are direct from the artist, played as they were meant 
 to be played. Each instrument has a valuable part in every song, which makes it fun to play each 
 and every one.
  
  Value: 58 songs right out of the box, over 20 songs already up for downloadable content on the 
 Xbox Marketplace, 3 solo tours (guitar, mic, drums) , a band world tour, 2 multiplayer modes, ranked 
 and unranked matches, leaderboards, and the great customization feature. Yup, it's all here, and 
 it really makes the bundle. If you can pay for Rock Band, and love rhythm games or want to try 
 them out, get this game.
  
  Replayability: 10 / 10, thanks greatly to Band World Tour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DepressedHippie
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  Well my fellow Rockers, it is time for a math question! If Guitar Hero costs 90 dollars and it 
 only comes with a guitar, then 170 dollars for Rock Band with Guitar, Drums, and Mic is obviously 
 a much better deal. Am I right my planetary brothers! This deal is too good to be true. right?
 
  
  As with most thing in the real word if something seems to be to good to be true... then it is. 
 Rock Band has some real shady craftsmanship behind it. Already I have a broken guitar strum and 
 a kick pedal that isn't doing much kicking. For the 2 days the game worked it was great but come 
 on what ever happened to testing! 
  
  For anyone interested in this game I would recommend coming back in a couple months. Wait for all 
 us foolish early adopters do the testing EA and MTV obviously thought was not needed.
  
  *yeah I know a 1 is a little harsh... but i am really pist off right now* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gargoyle
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Even if you've never played a rhythm game, if you love music and multi-player games you will love 
 Rock Band.
  
  The list of songs is fantastic, and covers all sorts of rock genres. Lots of downloadable content 
 (for the X-Box 360 so far) ensures that you can get even more of the type of music you like.
  
  The game play is similar to Guitar Hero, but the addition of the drums and vocals, and the 
 ability of band members to "save" each other makes Rock Band's multiplayer game play much more 
 compelling. Rather than being dragged down by lesser skilled bandmates, expert players get the 
 feeling of being valuable by saving them. 
  
  Fans of Guitar Hero will find that Rock Band notes have easier arrangements (for instance Cherub 
 Rock is much easier to play than in GH) but must be hit more exactly. This gives gameplay a "tighter" 
 feel, and accuracy feels more important that frantic fretwork. It's not better or worse, just different, 
 and may take some time to get used to.
  
  The interface is good, but the band management could be improved. It's easy enough to start a band 
 or play a solo career, or to just jump into quick play. When you want to switch instruments you'll 
 find that to keep control of your character you'll have to create a new character for each instrument, 
 and if your character is the leader of the band, you'll have to create a new band altogether. It 
 would be nice if players could swap instruments and characters yet stay in the same band, but overall 
 you get used to having multiple bands or just swapping characters.
  
  The new guitar looks and feels more like a guitar than a toy, and the strum bar is quiet. The drums 
 feel enough like a real drum set for someone that has never played the drums, but some people with 
 actual drumming experience have expressed disappointment. 
  
  Reliability of hardware is certainly an issue, but EA is doing a fair job of getting things fixed. 
 My Fender stopped working after a few days of playing, but I received a replacement in 2 days after 
 sending in a request via the web site. The replacement's fret buttons are louder than the original, 
 but otherwise it works fine. I prefer the quiet strum bar, larger whammy bar, and the look and 
 feel of the Rock Band Fender over the GH II Gibson Explorer, or the GHIII Gibson, but the accuracy 
 of the GH guitars strumming seems to be better. 
  
  However, even after a couple of weeks, I still can't get use to the Fender.... even when it works. 
 The notes just don't seem to register as decisively as they should... both the strum bar and fret 
 buttons seem mushy. It may be personal preference, but I can't recommend the Fender. You may end 
 up using a Les Paul or Explorer.
  
  The drums work well, but the sound of wood clacking on plastic is very loud. Like many others I 
 have taken the trouble of modding the drums by cutting circular felt and foam pads and adhering 
 them to each pad. It reduces the noise, and wasn't hard to do, but it makes me wonder why it didn't 
 come like that stock. Some have had problems with their bass pedal breaking. My pedal is fine so 
 far, despite some vigorous drumming from myself and my two kids. The main problem with the drums 
 is that sometimes a note does not register. Again others have modded the drums by duct taping the 
 pads closer to the sensor. I have not done so yet, but plan to use Velcro on the sides to tighten 
 them up.
  
  The microphone is nice and once you figure out that you have to have a controller turned on to 
 make it work, you'll probably have no problems with it. You can also use a standard headset. Singing 
 is surprisingly fun. Staying on pitch and enunciating the lyrics correctly is the key to success, 
 and you may find that some songs come easy while others are very tough depending on your voice 
 and preferences. 
  
  The willingness of people to spend so much money on a game, to put up with so much broken and substandard 
 hardware, and to mod the hardware to make it work correctly speaks volumes about the quality of 
 game play. It's just darn fun to play.
  
  If you're not willing to spend a lot of money only to have to wait for replacement parts, you may 
 want to wait for the Rock Band hardware to improve. However if you love Rock n Roll, and want to 
 get together with some friends to rock out, you may find the hardware woes to be very much worth 
 the trouble. If I could, I would give the software a 9, and the hardware a 6, but in my exprerience 
 EA is doing a great job of replacing broken equipment with no questions asked. 
  
  The fun of jamming out with your friends is back, and I recommend Rock Band if you and your friends 
 love music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Fun music games like DDR and Guitar Hero have captivated players around the world. Now, Rock Band 
 delivers an experience like no other. Just a bit of personal information, I'm a musician and I've 
 played in many rock/heavy metal bands and even an orchestra and a jazz ensemble, so I know the 
 ins and outs of being in a band. What Rock Band does best is it captures the fun and feel of being 
 in a real band with your friends. Now, you won't feel like you're actually playing the drums or 
 guitar, but you feel like a drummer or a guitarist in a band. First, let's talk about the gear. 
 Your axe (or guitar) is a Fender Stratocaster. I actually own one and this feels like a smaller 
 version. The Strat looks real and the buttons are embedded into the neck and they feel better than 
 the Guitar Hero guitars. There are 2 sets of buttons, one lower on the neck and one higher for 
 solos. There's a pickup selector, like a real guitar, which lets you select an effect to use when 
 the solo kicks in. The drums are 4 pads and a kick pedal. The drums are very fun and almost feel 
 real. Plus, you get a pair of real drum sticks! The last piece of gear is the microphone, which 
 is basically, a microphone. They all plug in via a USB hub. Now, the game. It's fun. The song selection 
 is great. You got your Metallica, Black Sabbath, Mountain, Weezer, Nirvana, and all kinds of different 
 bands. There are downloadable songs for even more variety. The songs are not that hard. Even playing 
 on the Hard difficulty, the songs are fairly easy. This is where the game shines on bringing on 
 the "fun" element, rather than the"challenge" element found in Guitar Hero. You can play multiplayer 
 split screen or you form a virtual band online via Xbox Live. This is alot of fun. Need a drummer? 
 Go online and find one. The game is almost flawless but the guitar and drums in alot of cases of 
 malfunctioned and needed to be sent back and replaced free of charge. But overall, the high price 
 ($169.99) is alot but it's well worth it. If you and your friends want a fun party game. Here it 
 is: Rock Band! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  Rock Band doesn't just push aside GH, it shoots it in the head and leaves it for the wolves. This 
 game is the better (more expensive) GH. Now the one thing people may say is that the guitar is 
 easier to play on Rock Band then it is on GH. This is true (at least in my case) but, GH became 
 a game where people were no longer playing for fun, but for competition. People started using glitches 
 and cheats so they can appear better then they really are. With Rock Band, thats not necessary 
 to do. I've played the game as every profession and It's a lot of fun. The drums take a while to 
 get use to but that doesn't take away from the game. The only thing that this game has a problem 
 with is the equipment. Personally, my equipment craped out on me after a couple of weeks (well, 
 everything but the microphone at least) . But there is the chance to have EA send you new equipment 
 as replacement for your old. The best part about this game is the multi-player. Whether your with 
 friends or just on Live playing with other people, it's always fun to play multi-player. 4 players 
 at once is really nice (if you can ever find someone singing that is) . GH should have done 4 player 
 face-offs but I guess fun isn't in there vocab. I your still wonder if you should save a little 
 extra and get Rock Band or shell out what you got on GH, get Rock Band, you'll really be glad you 
 did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fraggle13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Now I got rock band the day it came out, I felt like I was in heaven. I was playing the drums, 
 started out on medium and went a little higher a few days later. all of a sudden im playing on 
 expert, sandman, Mississippi queen, I think I'm paranoid, etc. when all of a sudden, in the middle 
 of a song, THE FOOT PEDAL SNAPS RIGHT IN HALF. It broke off right at the spring. I just stared 
 at it in amazement. Then everyone looked at me with their jaws to the floor. I got hella pissed 
 and had to turn off the game. But it got me thinking. Why the hell are the foot pedals made of 
 plastic?... Is it too much to pay for metal ones? Not to mention that the only way to get a new 
 foot pedal, IS TO REPLACE THE ENTIRE THING, microphone guitar, EVERYTHING. i thought it was stupid 
 they had a 2 year warranty... but lucky for me, I bought it anyways. And it wasn't even my foot 
 pedal either, my uncle had bought the game too and it was his foot pedal that broke, not mine. 
 I guess I should be lucky that my xbox was sent to Texas or else it would have been mine..... damn 
 you xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hessien
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  I wasn't sure how my family would catch on. My friends aren't exactly the musician types but I 
 had to have this game. I was forced to cook dinner for them to get them over. We had a blast. Our 
 frustration factor was getting high but with a few switches like the VanHalens at youth we got 
 farther along. I love the drums but I felt that if I rocked like I wanted to I would find myself 
 looking for a new drum set. I felt like I had to be the drummer for Wheezer in the "buddy Holley" 
 video rather than the drummer for Pantera during "Cementary Gates". The other instruments get style 
 factor considering they feel tougher. The drums beg to get played with nicely. Anyway. Loved it. 
 Get your old lady involved and get your kids to play. Some aftermarket drum sticks with softer, 
 more forgiving, tips would be nice. As far as the price goes. Don't sweat it. Once you play it 
 its a bargain. People spend more per month on froo froo lattes. BTW I loved the video review. Gspot 
 editors continue to get down with the sickness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychovader
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  I friggin love Rock Band. Beside from the problem that I had with my Guitar that came with it, 
 (apparently a rare double strum issue) it's perfect. Rock Band has made me officially part ways 
 with Guitar Hero forever. The drums make me feel none less than awesome when I am playing some 
 of my favorite songs, such as So Sick by Flyleaf. Thankfully, should you have any problems with 
 any of the hardware, EA is quick to respond, and they'll give you two options on how to replace 
 your current faulty hardware, although I don't think that this is an issue for most people. :D 
 Story of my life, I guess. Anyways, don't pass up Rock Band if you ever liked Guitar Hero. I can 
 almost promise you, that if you think Guitar Hero is any good, you will absolutely love Rock Band 
 as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nkj_champ
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games I've played in a VERY long Time!!! Even tho it is pretty expensive 
 its worth it... I LOVE THIS GAME! It was definitely worth the wait. The guitar is great, but the 
 strummer is a little annoying... the drums are probably the most fun part of the game... the singing 
 is different but still fun to do. GREAT FOR PARTIES! You should probably be able to have some one 
 you can play this game with everyday or so if you want to play it to its full potential... but 
 it is still a must have game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Basically 4 games in 1; All 4 games are awesome; Great song list with 90% masters; Feeling 
 of playing in band is just incredible; Strong DLC plans; Strong artistic style of graphics; $170 
 is a good price considering what you get
  
  Cons: $170 is still a lot of money no matter how much you cut it; The awesome Band World Tour mode 
 isn't online; guitar is kind of iffy; Drum kick pedals have been reported to break; Drums don't 
 ease you in as much as other instruments; Repeating songs a lot in Band World Tour; Having to write 
 such a long review for this huge game
  
  Guitar Hero, your days are numbered. Considering that I am a Guitar Hero addict, it says something 
 about the high quality of Rock Band to make me say that. Harmonix took everything that was great 
 about Guitar Hero and outdid it (except maybe guitar) .
  
  Rock Band is really 4 games in one. There's a guitar/bass game that plays just like Guitar Hero 
 with no real exceptions. There's a vocal game that's like Karaoke Revolution, just with Rock Band's 
 awesome song list. And then there are the drums, which are actually new, imitating real drums pretty 
 close (supposedly if you play a drum song on expert, you should be able to play that same song 
 on real drums) .
  
  The guitar part of the game isn't at all surprising to the numerous guitar vets, so it won't be 
 surprising to see expert players on this really fast. It revolves around hitting 5 buttons and 
 strumming a bar to hit scrolling notes moving in time with the song. Then you have a multiplier 
 for hitting multiple notes in a row, and you have overdrive which doubles your multiplier and makes 
 your life move up easier, that you activate by tilting the guitar.
  
  These mechanics work as well as they did on Guitar Hero, although people who mastered the 2nd or 
 3rd one may have issues with the difficulty or lack thereof. Make no mistake, there are some tricky 
 guitar songs (Green Grass & High Tides will own most players on Expert) , but as there is a bigger 
 band focus, the songs on disc are not quite as guitar intense as in Guitar Hero.
  
  The vocal part of the game is reminiscent to another Harmonix developed game, Karaoke Revolution. 
 As a song plays, green bars scroll to the left on the screen. These show you what pitch you need 
 to hit. When you sing an arrow helps show where you are, as you attempt to fill a phrase meter 
 to keep a combo going.
  
  New to this game are a few things though. First are "talky phrases." During these sections, there 
 is no green line, and you need to focus on saying the words right instead. Second, since you have 
 to deal with long instrumental solos, at times circles show up on the meter (not in the middle 
 of singing phrases though) , and you hit the microphone to clap, hit a tambourine, or hit a cowbell. 
 Since some people will sing and play instruments at the same time, these parts are thankfully optional. 
 The other new feature is overdrive which functions like it does on guitar, activating when you 
 sing during orange freestyle phrases.
  
  Then the other instrument is drums. Hide these from your friends as long as you can, because everyone 
 will want to try these. These drums are meant to represent the real kits, with 4 colored pads (red, 
 yellow, blue and green) , and a kick pedal (represented by an orange line) . You actually play real 
 drum parts, meaning that you keep time more often than not, but the drums are still a blast, due 
 to the different ways the notes and kick pedals get combined.
  
  On Expert the songs get real hard too (tip: to use overdrive to save your sorry butt, hit a green 
 note at the end of fill sections) . The notes really start blending together and you'll curse the 
 kick pedal notes a lot. Unfortunately, some people have reported to have cursed the actual kick 
 pedal which has broken for numerous people. EA and Harmonix have been nice about replacing the 
 broken equipment, but it is a shame for people who just want to have a blast drumming.
  
  On the last note of drumming, unlike the other instruments that scale to the difficulty nicely 
 (guitar uses less buttons on lower difficulties, and singing judges you nicer) , drums start a little 
 harder. Although the easy drum songs are pretty accessible, you are thrown in with all 4 pads and 
 kick pedal, which may make learning the drums hard for some people.
  
  3 of the 4 instruments (bass being the exception) have solo careers. These work just like in Guitar 
 Hero, with you moving up tiers based on difficulty. In a nice touch the songs are reorganized according 
 to instrument (and on the band mode, based on overall band difficulty) .
  
  The songs themselves are quite good also (and 51 out of the 58 on the disc are master tracks!) . 
 It mixes well known songs (such as Blitzkrieg Bop and Are You Gonna Be My Girl) with a few unknown 
 songs (such as Electric Version by the New Pornographers) , and has a bonus list full of Harmonix 
 bands (and naturally Freezepop) . The songs are all band focused, rarely shining the spotlight on 
 one instrument too long and making the others bored. And the song list has a nice variety between 
 the various rock genres, unlike a certain other game out there that was "metal   all."
  
  If that wasn't nice enough, Rock Band has really nice downloadable content (DLC) plans. Each week 
 a few more songs get added that you can download to help flesh out the game with songs of your 
 choice. Currently the list already has 20 songs just 2 weeks after release, and is continuing to 
 grow (eventually full albums will be available) . Plus, any song sold in a pack is available on 
 its own, and the songs are reasonably priced ($2.00 for most songs, and $5.50 for most 3-song packs) .
 
  
  Along with the awesome song list and sound quality, Rock Band has a really nice artistic side to 
 it also. You get a create-a-rocker feature that lets you build your own custom rock star (complete 
 with clothing, hair, makeup, and tattoos) , which is really fleshed out. Then that rock star hits 
 the stage, and things get really cool. The whole performance is usually cartoony and energetic. 
 The band members will make faces, strike poses, kick the camera, and all that other stuff. And 
 the camera works nicely to move to the most interesting area during any given part of the song, 
 often using cool effects (such as grainy black and white filters) in the process. Simply put, while 
 Guitar Hero was impressive, Rock Band blows it out of the water.
  
  The venue (stage) design is also top notch. It's toned down a bit from the styles of Guitar Hero. 
 Instead of having giant animated Grim Reapers and Dragons in the background, Rock Band usually 
 just has monitors, posters and the like. They aren't as eye catching as the stuff in Guitar Hero 
 for sure, but that's fine since the band as a whole looks nicer. And there are still cool and creative 
 venues (one of my favorites is one set in a hospital room with x-rays in the background) . And there 
 are 40 or so venues, so you're bound to find at least one that you like.
  
  Of course, you and your friends will play on your own real-life venues (or living rooms) , but even 
 without the fancy lights, the band play is the pure highlight of the game. Get 2 or 3 friends around 
 and play the songs, and soon enough a certain energy starts building up. Maybe shouting "Now!" 
 to your friends to get the best Overdrive usage, or taking a break as the vocalist takes a little 
 solo section. It's just a blast, and sure to be a classic party game for years to come.
  
  And that's in no small part to the huge and awesome career mode built specifically for bands. In 
 this mode, you and at least 1 friend (or none if you sing and play an instrument) form a band that 
 tours the world. You choose a hometown, which has gigs to play, ranging from things such as 1 song 
 sets, to mystery setlists (random songs) , to custom setlists (you choose the songs) . As you play 
 gigs, you gain money (used to buy clothes and instruments) and fans (used to access new venues 
 and gigs) . Soon enough you start earning things like a van to travel to neighboring cities, roadies 
 to play in bigger venues, and an airplane to fly to other countries. Occasionally you also get 
 offers before a song that your band must choose. For instance, you may get "Charity Event" which 
 you play and donate all the money, thus earning $0, but getting twice the fans.
  
  The whole career is fun, bringing the band energy, while forcing bands to make all those decisions 
 as a group (should we take the offer? Should we play in which town or venue? Etc.) , and it's rather 
 large too. The only two downsides are the lack of online play (because not everyone has friends 
 who can complete the entire career with them) , and the repetition of songs (a real band has to 
 do it too, but no one is thrilled to play In Bloom 10 times in a game) . Thankfully DLC gets factored 
 in to mystery and custom setlists if you choose to get it.
  
  All in all, Rock Band has so many areas where it succeeds that it would make little sense NOT to 
 call this the best rhythm game ever made. If you like Guitar Hero you need to get this game. If 
 you like rhythm games in general, this is a no-brainer. If you like rock music, play this game!
 
  
  In fact, the only people who shouldn't play this game are those who hate rock music, and/or video 
 games. And if you were one of those people you probably wouldn't be reading this, would you?
  
  Get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SargeGunnerz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a game unlike any other. Some say it's just Guitar Hero with a few added instruments. 
 Well the few added instruments make Rock Band so exciting. The Mic is basically what you would 
 expect. You sing into it and basically it measures your pitch and timing and scores you based on 
 close you sang to the song. The higher difficulties are just stricter and have a smaller pitch 
 range. The drums are the most exciting part of the game. They are the most original part of the 
 game and they are really fun for all levels of players. The easy and medium songs are great for 
 new players and non-drummers. But the expert songs.... some of them are nearly impossible. It's 
 just a really great and unique experience. The guitar and bass are fun, not nearly as hard as GH 
 overall but still fun to play. The extra set of buttons and the highlighted solos are really fun 
 and the new look of the notes just make it look like a polished game. The best part of Rock Bnad 
 is playing online in a four person band. It's just really fun to see all the parts playing as one 
 band especially if they're all good. I usually play guitar while my brother drums and it's just 
 really fun. The songs are mostly good.. My favorite songs to sing are Say It Ain't So by Weezer, 
 Creep by Radiohead, and Foreplay/Long Time by Boston. I've only sang a couple. My favorite guitar 
 songs are Green Grass and High Tides, Say It Ain't So, Maps, and Don't Fear The Reaper. My favorite 
 drum songs are Won't Get Fooled Again, Foreplay/Long Time, Don't Fear The Reaper, and Wave of Mutilation. 
 These aren't the best songs on the game, I was just naming a few that I really like to play. However, 
 every game has a downside. The downside for Rock Band is the instrument quality. There are a lot 
 of complaints about drum pedals breaking which isn't good. My drum pedal is still in good shape 
 but my guitar actually stopped working after a couple weeks. It will no longer down-strum. But 
 this happened conveniently right when EA came out with the warranty saying they would replace broken 
 guitars or drum pedals for free. I got the new guitar yesterday and it works fine and it feels 
 much better. Overall, Rock Band is just a great, fun, pick-up-and-play game with awesome gameplay! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sluggmunki_tx
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a similar game mostly to Guitar Hero and Dance Dance Revolution where you line up 
 colors and buttons to play and sound will come out properly. This game is every wanna be rocker's 
 dream. Why settle for one guitar or a solo dancer when you can play multiplayer and have your very 
 own rock band? Rock band is truly phenominal. You can play songs as a band from famous artists 
 like Aerosmith, Blue Oyster Cult, The Police, David Bowie, Rush, The Clash, Foo Fighters, Nirvana, 
 Metallica, Weezer, Smashing Pumpkins, Faith No More, Radiohead, Jet, Queens of the Stone Age, Fall 
 Out Boy, The Hives, The Killers, The Strokes, and lots more. A very interesting list of over 50 
 songs for you to play. Truly amazing! I give this a 10 score that rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I've been fortunate enough to have spent the past 3 weekends with my friends playing rock band. 
 I don't even own it yet, but my buddy got his hands on the full kit, so we've been rocking out 
 over at his place every chance we get.
  
  We've managed over 500,000 fans, over 400 stars and still have a ton of game left to go. this game 
 is deep, it has tons of customization option for your character, downoadable content, and is just 
 plain fun to play. It's similar to Guiter Hero in that you have to hit the colored rectangles in 
 time with the beat and all, but this game takes that so much further. I've found the difficulty 
 on rock Band to be a little less than GH, at least for guitar and bass parts, but once you get 
 behind the drums, you see what hard actually is! I'm somewhat musically inclined and was able to 
 improve as I played, but I tip my hat to anyone who can play above medium on the skins!
  
  As far as the solo campaign goes, it has all the songs and clubs as the co op world tour, but this 
 game wasn't built for one player. This game has multiplayer in mind from the start. I've not had 
 as much fun with the guys playing anything else..... not even Halo. You feel like a rock star after 
 playing. It makes you want to pick up the guitar you had as a teenager (assuming you're old, like 
 I am) and dust off your best riffs. The best part about this game is that I can play with my 30+ 
 year old buddies and have just as much fun as when I play with my kids. Young and old alike can 
 join a Rock Band. Buy this game!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soufan123
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok, you have a 360 right? Then get off this retarded computer chair and go to your nearest gamestore 
 and ask for Rock Band to buy, if they dont have it, shoot the manager. This game is just amazing. 
 I know, your probablly thinkingOh this guy really likes it but Im still not sure if I will like 
 it or if I should spend my 170 $ on this (amazing) game. My answer is HELL YES!! Ok first off, 
 the gameplay and set up of the game is really easy to get a song going. There's 58 total tracks 
 on the game which is pretty good thinking that all these songs work for all 4 intruments meaning 
 your really playing over 200 songs! The graphics are also great. You get to customize your own 
 character for over hundreds of clothing, hair styles, jewlery, ya the whole ch-bang. Next comes 
 the xbox live. Live on Rock Band is really sweet considering you can take your character you've 
 sutomized and jump in for a head-to-head for each and every intrument or you can even Rock Out 
 with your friends!! 
  
  Overall, Amazing game, ( I dont know how many times I typed "Amazing in this Review :) ) It is 
 definatley worth the purchase and will not dissapoint!!!!
  
  
  Ok, so once the manager is on the ground dead, run over to Harmonix and kill everyone in the Industry. 
 Grab a newly made Rock Band from the factory run back home, call your friends over and play until 
 the police arrive!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToySolider62
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Virtually everybody has played Guitar Hero. And im sorry if you dont like it... but its one of the 
 most popular games out. Rock Band makes Guitar Hero look like NOTHING. Its the same elements, but 
 with 4 player capability. Guitar / Bass - These are exactly the same as in GH. However, i dont 
 like the square notes, and the hammer on / pull offs in this game. I feel as if they are too hard 
 to notice especially when playing with 4 players, and NOT having a big enough tv. Also, i like 
 the addition of the lower fret buttons... but its kind of stupid. I dont like using them at all. 
 Im sure many love them... however i feel like they are too small. Not to mention i play better the 
 harder way with using the higher fret with the strummer. Drums - Drums are a GREAT new part. Being 
 the main catch whith this game, the drums are a great part. Sometimes it dosnt register it, and 
 the foot pedal will likely break, i like this new part. VERY HARD.... but amazing. Singing - I havnt 
 had much experience with this... but its singing. Good game, i recomend giving it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhampyr246
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  This is one awesome game. The tracks are great for the most part and there is not much that is 
 more fun than having friends come over and rocking out in BWT. I got the game last week (really 
 lucked out finding it) , and had 3 friends over within minutes. Been having a blast creating bands, 
 playing online, and doing the solo tours since.
  
  
  The only things I have found wrong with this game are:
  
  1. Such a limit on BWT if anyone 
 has to play on easy/med
  2. When on vocals, the pitch the game is looking for seems to be off from what the actual pitch 
 is sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhinonvision
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  I have GII and GIII! My wife plays GIII all the time! The songs are great, but the songs in Rock 
 Band are much better! Especially the download content! I am not knocking the G games, because I 
 love all the games. The graphics to Rock Band are not that great, but at least you do not have 
 to deal with a boss. I hated that in GIII! I do not have the instruments to Rock Band so I cannot 
 judge how the controllers play! I do know the GIII controller works excellent, but I would like 
 to buy the drum set when it becomes available! 
  
  I believe RB and the G games are great games if you love music! If you get tired of one, then go 
 to the other! Or should I say when your WIFE has taken over one, then you get to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: just4pool93
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  When I saw Rock Band announced back at E3 07', I just thought it looked like a rip off of Guitar 
 Hero. But once I saw it was being developed by Harmonix, I said, "Oh s*** Guitar Hero is done!" 
 and it looks like I made a good decision by saying that. Although there aren't many songs, all 
 the songs that are on there are great and the downloadable tracks aren't that expensive. It's a 
 little more enjoyable if you have Xbox Live or a lot of people that will play with you all the 
 time, but the 3 World Tour modes will keep you entertained for a good period of time. It is probably 
 the closest you will ever get to having your own band if you don't want to get a REAL band. I would 
 recommend this game to anybody willing to spend $170 or is a fan of Guitar Hero. So, a perfect 
 10/10 in my book! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlywhispers
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  Rockband will be the next popular drug . Thats all I really should say, but I'll go into details, 
 but I'll make it quick so I don't have any withdrawls.
  
  Graphics/presentation: Lets start off with this. There good. Yeah, there no NEXT GEN high powered 
 graphics, but for a game that forces you to not pay attention to the main graphics, there still 
 pretty damn good. The animation is top notch on here. They have every move you'll ever see in a 
 real show, and its dead on to the real movements. What impresses me the most is the drumming animation 
 and how each beat is on the right part of the drum kit.
  GRAPHICS:8.5/10
  PRESENTATION:9.5/10
  
  Sound: Amazing. The soundtrack is great, from the 60's to 2000'S. All 
 great. The soundtrack is a little short on the actual disk, but spanning even more on DLC. The 
 music is great and each instrument is crystal clear. You can't have a great music game without 
 great music... and this is a great music game. 
  10/10
  
  Gameplay: I'll do this in seprate catagories.
  Solo Mode: 
  The guitar: Solo mode is boring 
 on easy and medium. So/so on the 1st half of hard, and great on the 2nd half of hard. Havn't tried 
 expert, but I'd say about the same enjoyment as on hard. Overall, its easier the GH, but still 
 fun.
  The Drums: The drums... the newest edition to a music game (on console) , is a great edition. I never 
 played it one easy. On medium its a challenge and a blast, on hard its even funner. This is really 
 the solo mode thats the funnest to play.
  The Mic: Havn't played solo mode, and have no interest in doing so... but I can tell you, its fun 
 singing when your with friends.
  SOLO MODE: 8.5/10
  
  Band World Tour:
  Easily the greatest thing to hit music games, and games in general. Its so addicting and so amazing 
 to sit there with family and friends, and friends and family that don't even play games. Its great 
 that a game can bring people together, and be so easy to pick up and play, and thats what Band 
 World Tour is all about. The way everything works, from the fans, and the money and creating your 
 rocker, and your dream band works amazingly and is just a blast. I never in my life and played 
 a game with a friend for 9hours straight and didnt get bored. I never once in my life never sat 
 there and played any game ever with my Uncle (who doesnt play games) , but finally sat there 4hours 
 with him singing and turning every song into an 80's rock band vocal! BWT is stunningly amazing. 
 10/10
  
  
  overall...
  
  10/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterassasin13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty good the only problem is you need 2 guitars to really have some fun the singing 
 is good the drums are fun the guitar is ok but you still need 1 more guitar to really have a band. 
 The guitar is ok but it just sometimes doesn't register notes properly it will take some time getting 
 it . its kind of stupid that it's another 80 bucks for another guitar its still woooorth a buy 
 for Christmas so if you dont have the money just wait till christmas by then they will have all 
 of the problems out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskillz101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought Rock Band, I thought I would play it and Guitar Hero 3, in harmony. But Rock Band 
 seems to just blow GH3 out of the water. Theres something about the format, and the songs, that 
 just makes it so fun. Now imagine that new level of fun, times four. There's Rock Band. The World 
 Tour mode is fun, even if you don't have all the songs unlocked from Solo Tour. I like how there 
 are goals, not playing songs. (Like getting a sound guy, getting groupies, ad PR team, etc.) Though 
 it is not nearly as fun without either your pals by your side or an Xbox Live connection, its still 
 fun if your a 37 year old man playing in your aunt's basement because your mother disowned you. 
 So I would give this one the green light, even if you didn't like Guitar Hero series games. Because 
 even if you aren't coordinated, theres always that ever-taunting microphone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuul1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Followers of the Guitar Hero series will easily be able to pick up and play this new installment 
 of the rock rhythm video game. Harmonix, one of the developers who created Guitar Hero 1 and 2 
 have teamed up with other developers to create a more grand version of Guitar Hero. Rock Band places 
 you in a band giving you the choice to play guitar, bass, drums or if you're brave enough, sing. 
 
  
  The learning curve of some instruments is pretty steep if you have no practice in rhythm. The drums 
 are by far one of the most difficult instruments to master. Think playing guitar hero for the first 
 time and adding in the orange button. But the more you play the better you get, it's hard but not 
 impossible. The guitar is what you would expect from Guitar Hero and very similar in many aspects. 
 The singing is much like the popular karaoke video games. You say the words and follow the pitch 
 line as it goes across the top of your screen. Unfortunately, technology isn't that great with 
 the microphone as you can simply hum the pitch rather than sing the song and it still gives you 
 credit for it.
  
  The selection of songs is good, but it really comes down to your own likes and dislikes. The bad 
 part about this game is that if you play by yourself it isn't the most enjoyable thing in the world. 
 The guitar aspect of the game is also much easier than guitar hero as the difficulty is based on 
 the band as a whole rather than crazy guitar solos. To get the full feeling of this game you really 
 need to play with four people. 
  
  The game also comes with plenty of online features to keep you busy from months to come. There 
 are many songs available to download and new songs coming in every week. There is also a few multiplayer 
 modes available to play, but to my own experience I have yet been able to get into a game with 
 all the members of a band from different consoles.
  
  The game is great fun and is a must buy if you enjoy party rhythm games. The only downside is, 
 is that the game is sort of a drag if you only can play buy yourself, so you might be better to 
 buy the game by itself if you already have a guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/microsoft/games/rockband_360. html? var1=sc3
  
  If you surveyed gamers about what they disliked about their hobby and compiled your findings into 
 a top ten list, chances are that money would easily crack the top three. With that in mind, how 
 does $169.99 for a new release sound? Ok, of course that means there's more than just a disc to 
 pop into your system, but that doesn't take away the fact that the price for admission into Rock 
 Band is not casual-friendly. Making matters more interesting, most gamers are aware that the requirement 
 for peripherals is generally not received well in the market. That trend, however, has been disrupted 
 in recent years, especially when the Guitar Hero franchise was introduced. But now, Rock Band has 
 taken the helm and the idea of rhythm games to a completely different level. Get ready to jam, 
 seriously.
  
  MTV Games bought out Harmonix because they obviously saw the huge profit potential in this peripheral 
 market revival, and with Rock Band, they've drawn an ace. That extra $110 scores you a basic microphone, 
 a RB-specific guitar, and what most people who've looked forward to this bundle can enjoy, the 
 four pad drum set that comes with a set of sticks and a foot pedal for bass. Assembly for the latter 
 is very painless, and the accessory seems capable of taking some serious punishment, but of course 
 we're just waiting for some moron to post a YouTube video of them destroying it and diverting the 
 blame. Anyway, Rock Band could really be considered Guitar Hero, Karaoke Hero and Drum Hero all 
 in one. Each instrument can be played solo, or they can all be joined in a three or four member 
 multiplayer group (the controller for GHIII is compatible in the game) .
  
  Rock Band brings all the modes that we've seen in the GH releases, because let's face it, there 
 shouldn't be one RB owner that doesn't have a least one GH bundle. The usual Career (Solo Gigs) 
 allows you to take any of the three instruments into the game's over 50 tracks, touring several 
 cities across America and Europe. Before you do though, you have to either build a custom rocker, 
 or accept a randomly generated one, but it feels like more of your own if you create one, especially 
 since you unlock aesthetic alterations that you can buy and apply to your avatar. It would seem 
 that you can save as many as you want as long as you have the space, so your buddies can go to 
 town when it comes to piecing together their dream band. Nevertheless, let's establish something 
 about that. If single-player titles are your thing, or if you just don't have the opportunity to 
 enjoy local multiplayer modes in games, then Rock Band probably isn't worth the hefty investment. 
 Where's the fun in being the only one that can play one instrument at a time? Answer, there is 
 none. If you can have regular get-togethers though, holy cow is Rock Band a force to be reckoned 
 with.
  
  The feeling you achieve when playing with whomever you choose completely indescribable. If you've 
 always wondered what it might be like to start a band, Rock Band could help to qualm those curiosities. 
 Even the mic, which most gamers would understandably avoid, brings further authenticity to the 
 experience because you're too focused on working together rather than snickering at one another's 
 abilities. Each player has their own area of notes to rock out, in addition to Star Power than 
 can be used for individual score boosts or saving a fellow member struggling during a song. That's 
 right, if you play together well, the cooperative aspect (especially in the main multiplayer mode, 
 Band World Tour) shines as you belt out great-sounding rhythms while backing up those who may not 
 be nearly as capable as you on a particular instrument. This has saved me on a few occasions, as 
 I tend to be more effective on drums than I am on the game's guitar because the strummer is a little 
 loose for my liking. However, my buddy is great with it, so we balance each other out with our 
 respective lack of guitar and drum skills. The USB hub is really annoying though. Wireless is not 
 the name of the game for Rock Band, so it's weird going back to cables since we enjoy GH III's 
 freedom so much. The wires may not interfere, but why in the world does the hub require its own 
 power supply that has a three foot cord?
  
  Moving on, Rock Band is also the liveliest rhythm game I've ever seen. While the character models 
 are decidedly cartoony side in design, they look great, animate realistically, and do well to entertain 
 onlookers. Even the crowd resembles more of a bunch of crazy concert fans with all their jumping 
 up and down, singing along to songs you're performing to expectation, and raising their hands in 
 the air. Crowd surfing is pretty much the only thing that's missing, but who cares, Rock Band brings 
 it. This also extends to how all the customizations look, whether dealing with your characters' 
 hair, upper body wear, leg wear, footwear, whatever. Harmonix went all-out in giving Rock Band 
 players the option to mold their own experience, and we commend them for that. The only thing I've 
 found strange is the Manhunt 2-like graphical filters that take over the screen during certain 
 stages of some songs depending on the quality of your performance. I actually found myself distracted 
 by it, because it just looks off. But again, these are minor qualms for a rhythm game that hammers 
 an excellent presentation.
  
  But of course it all would be absolutely nothing if RB didn't have entertaining songs to reenact 
 on the instruments. Well, have no fear GH fans, or even those that have worried about the lesser 
 number of tracks. Remember something, Guitar Hero has been around for longer, so all those famous 
 rock and metal bands feel greater assurance in selling the licensing of their AAA songs to Activision/RedOctane. 
 Since this is the first outing for Rock Band [which should become a cult-classic franchise] and 
 because the GH-like game is under new management, it's not completely unreasonable to compare it 
 to the first GH in terms of song listing. When Rock Band 2 sees an inevitable release, we will 
 see meatier song content. With this in mind, RB has a stellar selection of rock and metal. While 
 my familiarity with what MTV pulled for in this game is even worse than in GH III, it's the entertainment 
 you feel when playing that matters, and there's only one that I haven't liked. A majority of them 
 are master recordings too, something that GH has just now taken off with, so we can certainly be 
 impressed by the behind-the-scenes efforts. They all sound great, even if the microphone becomes 
 involved, so there's no reason to shrug this off due to ill-conceived notions.
  
  The online components also work fine, even if the experience isn't nearly as captivating as playing 
 with people in the same room with you. If playing single songs and going for a great score sounds 
 appealing, you can do so with your friends over the internet in co-op. There's also Tug of War 
 (GH's Face-Off) and Score Duel (Pro Face-Off) that brings another level of competition to the mix, 
 but again, you're likely to stick to Solo Gigs or Band World Tour because both are insanely addicting. 
 You'll want to continue to improving, and the only way to do that is to practice, practice, practice. 
 Plus it's awesome to consider the possibility of learning how to play drums in real life the more 
 you mess with the instrument in Rock Band. If you can master the Expert difficulty with the four 
 pads and pedal, you could very well interview with some local bands that are looking for someone 
 to bang the sticks for them.
  
  While some would obviously disagree with me, I find that Rock Band represents the absolute pinnacle 
 of multiplayer gaming for 2007, if not perhaps this entire generation. It's not often that a game 
 comes around that four people can play and enjoy at the same time. While the drums and guitar might 
 prove too complex for casuals, I see no reason why those in said market couldn't give either a 
 shot and find entertainment value. At least the microphone is always there if all else fails, because 
 anyone can attempt to wow the crowd with their singing voice, regardless of the quality. It really 
 doesn't matter who's in on it, Rock Band has something to offer to all, and while the $169.99 tag 
 may be a bit unattractive, those who make their way past that wall will find something to love 
 on the other side.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdlee05
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 6:50 am PT
Review:  For the uninitiated, let's play a quick round of catch-up. Harmonix, the game developer responsible 
 for the massively popular (and rightly so) music rhythm series, Guitar Hero, has taken that idea 
 to the next level. This time around, instead of just rocking a sweet axe, a drum kit and microphone 
 are included in the package. The idea is to offer up the ultimate multiplayer music experience, 
 that of being in a real live Rock Band! Does it succeed?
  
  
  In places, yes. Let's start off with the guitar, shall we? Any person familiar with the Guitar 
 Hero series should have no problem jumping into Rock Band on the guitar. It plays identically to 
 it's spiritual predecessor. In the past, however, official guitar peripherals have been designed 
 and manufactured by Red Octane. Now they're developed without the help of of that great name. The 
 result is an aesthetically pleasing design, paired with a concoction of smart moves and missteps. 
 The peripheral (which resembles a Fender Stratocaster) has fret buttons that are flush with the 
 neck of the guitar (both at the end and closer to the body) . This makes it more difficult to keep 
 track of where your fingers are located than it would on a Red Octane guitar, but after a few practice 
 songs it hardly matters.
  
  
  
  The largest problem with the guitar is the strum bar which, even though it is entirely silent when 
 strummed (finally) , feels too spongy for it's own good. In a fast song like The Ramones' "Blitzkrieg 
 Bop" where you're required to strum quickly, it can become difficult to keep track of where you 
 are in the song. The old Red Octane guitars had a definite "stop" to it that you could feel (and 
 hear) . These do not. Overall, it's a somewhat decent peripheral (even if the failure rate is remarkably 
 high) . Still, I won't be throwing out my Red Octane guitars anytime soon.
  
  
  The microphone peripheral is, well, a microphone. There's no getting around this one. Even if you 
 can't play guitar, you can still shred the stuff at Guitar Hero. But if you can't sing, you may 
 want to do your friends and family a favor and pass the mic to someone who can. Accordingly, the 
 gameplay is fairly straightforward. Getting a high rating on your vocal performance will require 
 you to sing the song well. Like the other instruments on the game, "notes" will scroll across the 
 screen and it is your job to not only hit the right notes, but to begin and end the notes at the 
 correct time. An arrow to the right of the screen will tell you if you need to shift your voice 
 to match the correct pitch, just in case you couldn't tell on your own. As you increase the difficulty 
 of the game, you'll have to be more accurate in your notes as well as your hits and releases. Things 
 can get pretty unforgiving at higher difficulties.
  
  
  
  But like all songs, there are times when you're not going to be singing, just standing around. 
 Harmonix has smartly added in a nice gimmick to keep you busy. During these times, small dots will 
 appear on the screen and you'll have to tap the microphone in time to simulate shaking a tambourine 
 or clapping your hands. It's not the most enthralling gameplay ever, but it keeps you from getting 
 bored while your buddy is wailing away on the guitar. The worst part about singing is trying to 
 tackle a song that you're unfamiliar with. Fortunately, Harmonix has done it's best to get a wide 
 variety of songs in to make sure that most people know a few songs beforehand.
  
  Ahh, but most people aren't going to be buying Rock Band for the guitar or the microphone. They 
 already own games like that. No, the big draw for Rock Band is the new drum peripheral. And it's 
 great! I had my doubts the first time I hopped behind a demo kit, but now that I've had substantial 
 time with the drum peripheral, it's safe to say that this is what people will be fighting over 
 at the inevitable Rock Band parties. The build quality of this peripheral is phenomenal. It feels 
 solid, and unless you're taking out your aggression on the bass pedal with cement shoes, you should 
 have a hard time breaking it. Real wooden sticks are included in the package, and though the pads 
 don't have as much bounce as a real kit would, the experience of sitting behind the kit and rocking 
 out is awesome!
  
  
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the guitars. Notes will scroll vertically from the top of the screen, 
 and you must hit the correct colors in rhythm. When a long orange line appears, you must step on 
 the bass pedal. It's all pretty straightforward and self-explanatory for anyone familiar with Harmonix's 
 other games. In addition to that, there are also "fill sections" where you're free to bang around 
 on the drums at your leisure and hitting the crash cymbal at the end of the section will trigger 
 "overdrive" (Rock Band's "Star Power") . The fill sections can be a curse too, however. While a 
 real-life drummer could knock out a fill without hesitation, someone who absolutely sucks at playing 
 real drums (myself) will find themselves struggling to keep rhythm when they're not spoon-fed scrolling 
 notes. It really breaks-up the gameplay. When you add in the fact that these fill sections will 
 become more prominent until you activate your overdrive, it can get kind of annoying. Also annoying 
 is when you're playing guitar while someone else comes across a fill section and butchers it, screwing 
 you up in the process. It's a cool idea, but poorly implemented.
  
  And now on to the game, itself. Single player is set up almost exactly like the Guitar Hero series. 
 There is a career mode, where you play through the game's entire soundtrack, and there is quickplay. 
 Career mode is the game's biggest failure. It's an absolute chore to complete this mode by yourself 
 when all you want to do is jam with friends. And you have to complete it if you want to unlock 
 all of the game's songs too (a huge, huge misstep) . Unlike Guitar Hero, there are no encore songs, 
 and therefore no surprises. It's just a straightforward play-through mode with little to no reward 
 for completing it. 
  
  Multiplayer is where it's at. And unlike most Xbox 360 games, local multiplayer severely trumps 
 online play. When you're in a room with 3 other people in your virtual band, it can get pretty 
 fun. You just don't get that same feeling when you're going online against people you don't know 
 and can't interact with. The biggest attraction in multiplayer mode is the Band World Tour mode 
 (no Xbox Live functionality here) , where you and your friends can start a virtual band and tour 
 the world. The better you perform, the more fans you attain. Likewise, if you fail a song, you 
 lose fans. You can also unlock vans, buses, and other rock gear to help you on your tour across 
 the globe. The whole idea of this mode is to realistically mimic the real-life journey of a real-life 
 band. For real. Harmonix has also added in some choices to the gameplay that will keep things interesting 
 (i. e. Will you sell out or not? Will you play this large venue and risk losing more fans or stick 
 to the small one?) . It all makes for a surprisingly fun, and engrossing multiplayer mode.
  
  The standard multiplayer modes are here as well, including "Tug of War" and "Score Duel" (similar 
 to Guitar Hero's "Face-Off" and "Pro Face-Off," respectively) . Unfortunately, these only work if 
 you have two of the same instrument lying around. Unless you're unfathomably wealthy, that means 
 you'll likely be dueling on guitars only for the time being.
  
  The game has a pretty cool visual style, with heavy distortion and filters applied to almost all 
 in-game character animations. It gives it a very raw feel, which fits the game's rock-theme perfectly. 
 There is a pretty deep character customization system too, where you can create a digital version 
 of yourself or your idealized self. Tattoos, piercings, and fauxhawks are all available for you 
 to play around with, and you can even unlock more through the game's career mode. Load times can 
 be a bit grueling (at least on my early-model Xbox 360) , and the lack of any wireless peripherals 
 is an absolute joke! Expect plenty of tangles, especially from that 20-foot mic cable. The game 
 also comes with a USB splitter to allow you to connect all peripherals, but unfortunately it requires 
 it's own power supply.
  
  In the end though, there are very few things to complain about when it comes to Rock Band. Harmonix's 
 dream game has finally made it's way onto store shelves, and if you're lucky and rich enough to 
 snag a copy (the game currently retails for $170) , you will have an absolutely amazing time rocking 
 out with friends. If you don't have any friends though (or at least any that would be interested 
 in playing Rock Band) , you may want to spend your money elsewhere. Rock Band's single player experience 
 is fun for a short time, but you'll find yourself longing to play with real live human beings before 
 too long. And if all you're interested in is the drums, you can always just wait until early 2008 
 to pick up a copy of the game with the drums only (for much cheaper) . Anyways, the point is that 
 Rock Band is one of the finest music rhythm games ever made and quite possibly the greatest party 
 game ever to come into existence. If Guitar Hero was your thing, and you have plenty of friends 
 to play with (and, of course, the money) , buy Rock Band! You will not be disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This game.... rocks. Let me just say that right off the bat. Now:
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are clean, crisp, and colorful. You see some cool effects during 
 the show. Though, to be honest, graphics in a game like this aren't everything, but they make it 
 more enjoyable to watch.
  
  Sound: The song choice in this game is fantastic. I haven't found a song I hate or am tired of 
 (unlike the Guitar Hero series) . The songs are also done very well in terms of singing. Of course 
 if you have a good voice or a friend who does, that doesn't matter.
  
  Gameplay: Anybody who has played Guitar Hero will be able to play the guitar and bass. If you have 
 played Karaoke revolution you can do the singing. The drums, though a challenge in the beginning, 
 are a blast. The touring play mode is amazing, and if you bring all the instruments together and 
 you have one of the greatest multiplayer experiences you'll find.
  
  Overall I would highly recommend this game. It is fun, both single player but definitely multiplayer. 
 I'm not bashing the Guitar Hero series in any way. I've owned all of them and enjoyed them all. 
 But with the extra aspects this game brings, if you have to pick Guitar Hero or Rock Band... go 
 with Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  So I really hope all the Guitar Hero people and naysayers have played this game because it's AWESOME!!! 
 The drums alone are a killer thing to play and singing is right up there! Here's my break down:
 
  
  Graphics: Looks better than GH3 and I love the way the characters move and act as well as the crowd. 
 Solid outing.
  
  Gameplay: It's just plain fun! I love how the notes you hit break when you hit them and the interface 
 is slick.
  
  Audio: I played it after I hooked up my surround sound system... UNREAL!!! It felt like I was rocking 
 a stadium! It couldn't sound any better.
  
  Overall, this game is the best music game by far! You have different options and making your character 
 is much more fun than having to use pre-made characters. I have already downloaded more songs and 
 have a nice amount now. This game will be around a LONG time for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  +Honestly, reasonably priced for what you're getting (as long as they're not broken out of the 
 box) .
  +Much like the Wii likes to claim, the game
  -USB hub is really annoying and cluttering around the 360.
  -Song list just flat out sucks.
 
  
  Guitar Hero obviously did well. If not, we wouldn't have a new Harmonix game every 6 months now. 
 But it's not really that bad of a thing. Unlike some games such as Medal of Honor or Burnout, we 
 can all sit down and bore ourselves silly with these games. I think the big "I dunno" for me (and 
 many others) was the price of the game. $169.99 for a game? It seems to be way too expensive, and 
 for some it really is. I have real friends and family around me to play the game, so for me, it 
 was money well spent. Of all the games I've spent money on this year, so far, Rock Band has been 
 the most played multiplayer game for me hands-down. Seeing as Call of Duty 4 ($60) and Halo 3 ($60) 
 only lasted me a week, this game seems very well priced for what I'm getting in the box.
  
  For those familiar with Guitar Hero, you should already know how this game plays. It's the same 
 feeling, but this time with a set of drums and a microphone for karaoke modes. The drums are pretty 
 much the big reason people drop the cash on the game. How often did you get to claim after playing 
 Guitar Hero you knew how to play a real instrument? In Rock Band, after playing the drums, you'll 
 be able to move them to the side and play on some starter drums. That's pretty cool, and if you're 
 interested in drums, cheaper than drum lessons. The microphone is really cool. It's basically like 
 having a voice instructor on how to pitch your voice. However, just because you can pitch your 
 voice doesn't mean you can sing well. Ask my dad. The only instrument I don't like is the guitar. 
 Compared to the guitars from the Guitar Hero series, this guitar just feels a little stiff. Some 
 newcomers that have played it have said they like it better. Like any review, it's all a matter 
 of opinion. The only complaint with the game's accessories, which only applies to the 360 version, 
 is the USB dongle kit. It really just ends up getting in the way.
  
  The create a character really adds to the gameplay. Building up the most drag looking glam metal 
 singer can be pretty fun, especially when playing in a band with just some normal looking guys. 
 There's plenty to pick from and well priced out that you won't have everything after a few songs. 
 The tattoos are my favorite as you can really build an authentic tattoo look on your characters 
 arms, chest, and/or face. The graphics are good. Judging from the demos and videos, I thought the 
 game would be laggy and pretty ugly. It really isn't. that was a pleasant surprise. I'm just going 
 to throw this out there but the sounds are perfect. Really well redone soundtracks.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is the songs. For the amount of money you lay down for this game, 
 you'd expect something more than Guitar Hero 3's current 70+ songs. No, in fact, you get around 
 55+ songs in the game. That really sucks, especially since the game becomes quite short through 
 just the single player. The multiplayer is cool but they also forgot about an online co-op mode 
 which makes Guitar Hero 3 a new standard for these games. With new songs coming out, maybe they'll 
 release some free ones during the holidays. Hopefully, some more songs like Rush or the Chili Peppers. 
 Some other problems from the songs is some of them have such slow guitar portions that the game 
 feels more like Drum and Karaoke Hero than a Rock Band.
  
  Overall, a well done game. I just really hope to see some future songs soon that are rockin' and 
 not suckin'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drinkb0x
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  SOUND: While sound usually doesn't make or break most games, it's obviously paramount in Rock Band. 
 Luckily, from the individual sounds of each instrument to the screaming (and chanting) of the crowd, 
 Rock Band sounds amazing. The addition of an effects switch on the guitar adds a much needed creative 
 option and is especially appreciative after your tenth playthrough of "In Bloom".
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: While how the game sounds is important, the peripherals are just as key. The brand new 
 Fender Stratocaster guitar is simply amazing. From the aforementioned effects switch, to the solo 
 buttons this guitar looks and feels much more like a real guitar than any other device created. 
 The Microphone works well and does a fairly good job of making your performance seem "live". The 
 Drums are well designed and while they do take the longest to get used to, they are incredibly 
 fun to play.
  
  GRAPHICS: Character models are well done and the crowd looks genuinely into the show. The camera 
 does a great job of pulling off that rock show look adding in a few different film effects from 
 time to time.
  
  Cons:
  
  VALUE: At over $180 the price can be a bit steep, especially considering that none of the peripherals 
 are wireless. Also, the usb hub has a very small cord. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: It's inevitable that a game packed with a drum kit and newly designed guitar would suffer 
 some hardware issues. Most notably the strum bar on the Fender (making it near impossible to strum 
 down and receive credit for hitting notes) and the lack of responsiveness on the drums. (Some users 
 have reported the drum pads work every 4th hit or so) . And while its difficult to understand why 
 the game was released with these faults, EA and Harmonix have done a fantastic job in customer 
 support, replacing faulty equipment free of charge.
  
  
  Verdict: While Guitar Hero remains the ultimate test of shredders everywhere, Rock Band delivers 
 a highly enjoyable experience. The ability to rock out with up to three of your friends is something 
 that'll entertain everyone for hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muppetguy21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The game is an easy 10. 
  One of my manageres at work brought it in for BBQ day and it was such a huge hit. People lining 
 up to play it. So much fun. 
  
  I play this game for hours on end trying to get just one more star.... and my first perfect drum 
 song...
  
  My Gutiar dosent go into over drive at all and My drum set seems deleayed but I still give this 
 game a 10!
  
  I can't wait for Polka Band from MTV games!
  With a working acordian and Leterhosen accessories! 
  
  
  ***Spelling and grammer are known 
 issues and no patch is sceduealed at this time**** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nayrnoxin
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band offers Solo tours as well as Band World Tour-which is awesome- The world tour is very 
 very long-and most likely you wont be finishing it anytime soon. The more songs you download the 
 more songs are added to set list-expanding on what the game already provides. The set list may 
 not have all the cool bands everyone likes- but they're songs that you can play over and over and 
 still have fun- except for Honest-bob and the factory Dealers-
  
  The create a character is a lot of fun- but the other creative option are outstanding. You can 
 create your own art from a collection of pictures and text and apply the image to FACE PAINT, GUITARS/BASS, 
 and T-SHIRTS. Making your character completely yours.
  
  You can also join as many bands as you want- Rock Band opens up endless game play that you wont 
 be disappointed in.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The peripherals (guitar and drum set) tend to break or have flaws in them. It would be a good idea 
 to wait until after the holidays to invest in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrennenSteffens
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Gameplay and Feel- 9 out of 10
  
  For those of you fans of the Guitar Hero series, three-fourths of Rock Band's gameplay, guitar, 
 bass, and drums, will seem strikingly familiar. And for anyone who has ever played a karaoke-style 
 game, the other one fourth, the vocals, will also seem quite familiar. These four essential components 
 of the classic rock band come together in what I believe to be the most fun party game to date. 
 For the first time ever, you will be able to jam with three of your other buddies to a great list 
 of 58 rock and roll songs, the vast majority of which seem to concentrate not on a strong guitar 
 part, like in the guitar hero series, but instead on an overall balance between the four instruments. 
 
  
  In comparison to the Guitar Hero series, Rock Band's gameplay has some definite improvements. My 
 particular favorite new aspect is that the star power phrases, now referred to as "energy phrases" 
 remain active even when you are using star power (now called "overdrive") . This basically means 
 that you can use Overdrive without having to worry about missing the next energy phrases. If you 
 nail them, then they are added to your energy bar an will begin to immediately fuel the current 
 overdrive you are using.
  
  Rock Band attempts to improve Guitar Hero's system of hammer-on's and pull-off's, but unfortunately, 
 their new system makes it even more difficult to determine which notes must be strummed and which 
 are hammer-on's. As opposed to changing the center of the note to white, as in Guitar Hero, Rock 
 Band's hammer-on notes appear about three-fourths the size of the regular note. During fast, intense 
 gameplay, however, this distinction is extremely difficult to notice, especially on a smaller TV.
 
  
  Drumming has to be Rock Band's best stand-alone aspect, simply because it's new, it's fun, and 
 it's certainly a challenge. Whether you've never touched a pair of drum sticks in your life or 
 whether you've been a percussion master since birth, you will absolutely have the time of your 
 life thrashing on Rock Band's well-designed drum pad. 
  
  Vocals, the other fairly new aspect, is also a good deal of fun. Rock Band's microphone determines 
 how well you are doing by seeing if you are on the correct pitch at the correct times. On the easy 
 and medium difficulties, this is fairly easy to do. Once you begin to experiment with Hard and 
 Expert, however, you will find that the game is much less forgiving, and requires you to sing the 
 song as straight as possible (without bending your pitch, or singing up to notes, no pop-style 
 vibrato, etc.) While this semi-robotic style of singing definitely poses a challenge to you as 
 a vocalist, at the same time, it takes a bit of the fun out of singing really over-dramatically.
 
  
  I believe Rock Band could greatly benefit from two improvements: first of all, I think that the 
 character you create shouldn't be confined to one instrument. That way, when playing the Band World 
 Tour mode, your band members could switch instruments without having to look like your friend's 
 character. This isn't a huge problem, but it just seems like something that should be an option. 
 Second, I think that a character should have the ability to play vocals and guitar, bass, or drums 
 at the same time. This happens all the time in bands, and presents yet another fun challenge to 
 overcome. It would also allow you to play the Band World Tour mode, easily Rock Band's most addictive 
 and fun playing mode, even when your friends have other plans. Obviously, playing guitar, bass 
 or drumming as well as tapping the microphone is far from possible. Therefore, the tambourine tapping 
 should simply be turned off if you've elected to sing and play another instrument.
  
  Graphics and Look: 9 out of 10
  
  Rock Band's graphics and visual effects are absolutely fantastic 
 compared to what we've seen so far in the Guitar Hero series. The background images of the band 
 playing as you do are much sharper, making for an enjoyable experience even if you're not playing 
 the game, and are only watching! The rest of the screen's look is improved as well, with brighter 
 colors, clean-cut rectangular notes, and electric whammy bar animation. Activating overdrive puts 
 golden flames on both sides of your note track, allowing you to know that you're in overdrive without 
 getting in the way of your view of the upcoming notes. Characters are ten times more customizable 
 now, allowing you to present the exact image you desire, whether it's a clean cut, well dressed 
 vocalist, or a hardcore, face-painted, fully tattooed metal guitarist. Overall, Rock Band's look 
 is a great improvement, and leaves very little to be desired.
  
  Sound: 10 out of 10
  
  With 58 songs, the vast majority of which are original recordings, Rock Band also leaves very little 
 to desired from the sound category as well. Although some of the songs aren't exactly the most 
 fantastic or fun to play, Rock Band makes up for this with downloadable packs of songs, and new 
 ones every week.
  
  Value: 9 out of 10
  
  Let's face it: $170 (plus tax!) is downright a lot of money to spend on one single video game. 
 But, the other fact is that you will spend hours upon hours, and more hours still playing this 
 game, and having an absolute blast with it. It will be the highlight of ever get together with 
 your friends, and chances are, you will never tire of this remarkable and unique experience. If 
 you have just short of $200 hanging around somewhere, do yourself a favor and grab Rock Band as 
 soon as possible! If you don't have that money......... find a friend that does!
  
  Achievements: 10 out of 10
  
  Rock Band's achievements focus strongly on the Band World Tour 
 mode, which is a good thing, as it is easily the most fun thing to do with this game. The achievements 
 encourage a progressive increase in skill, from easy on down to expert, eventually asking for 100% 
 accuracy. While this is will be a difficult challenge, especially on vocals and drums, it's also 
 far from impossible. One particular achievement I admired was the 100% accuracy on a song playing 
 Bass on expert, only strumming upwards. 
  
  Overall Fun: 10 out of 10
  
  I said it before, and I said it again: you will have the time of your life playing Rockband. Even 
 playing alone, you will be so entranced by Rock Band's unique gameplay that you will never want 
 to stop. To take full advantage of Rock Band's potential, you really do need to get with 3 other 
 buddies and jam together. Rock Band brings people together, and throws them into an imaginary world 
 of Rock and Roll which everyone can enjoy.
  
  Final Score - 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  The Good: A variety of different gameplay experiences packed into one game; a great multiplayer 
 experience; great soundtrack; lots of customization.
  
  The Bad: $170 price tag is a really tough pill to swallow; drums are too small; grainy graphics 
 aren't ideal.
  
  Rock Band is a great game but at $170 for the bundle (game, guitar, drums, and mic) it's not a 
 great value. The instruments are not the highest quality either - my instruments all work all right, 
 but they are not the calibre I would expect for this price. The mic has no buttons on it, so the 
 singer needs to use a controller plus a mic (a hassle they could have, and should have, avoided) . 
 The guitar has response problems when I'm trying to go into overdrive, plus the strummer feels 
 "flimsy" compared to other guitar controllers. And the drums are just too small - it's too easy 
 to accidentally hit the edge of the drum rendering your note unplayed, because of the small size.
 
  
  On the other hand, at least you can get a lot of gameplay hours out of it. There are a lot of great 
 tracks included, and many more scheduled for Marketplace release. You can play solo on 3 separate 
 careers for guitar, drums, and singing. You can play multiplayer online or off. You can even try 
 to sing AND play an instrument at the same time, if you have a mic stand or use the Xbox Live Headset 
 to sing into. 
  
  I don't like the way the game "looks" compared to Guitar Hero III. There is a "grainy" look to 
 the video that is intentional but I don't think it was a good idea. Sometimes the colors will change 
 and other effects almost making it look like a music video, which is cool. But I prefer the grain-free 
 slick presentation on Guitar Hero III. This is a matter of personal preference, though.
  
  The customization in the game is off the hook! There are tons, and tons, and tons of looks for 
 your character's appearance and clothing, as well as instruments, and you can accumulate a wardrobe 
 and change anytime you want. You earn money for clothes by playing tracks.
  
  Being able to play different instruments is innovative and the game's biggest strength. I especially 
 enjoy belting it out on the mic. (If you're going to get Rock Band at all, don't just buy the game 
 and play on a guitar controller if you can help it , get the bundle instead. You will be missing 
 out on some serious fun and an innovative experience without the mic and drums!) The "pitch detector" 
 for singing works really well. If you don't know the song at all it's hard to get the pitch right 
 because you don't know what it's supposed to be, so on some songs you may find yourself doing a 
 "cold run" to get familiar with the song. When you know a song though it is truly a blast. The 
 guitar is similar to the Guitar Hero experience, and is a little easier than the harder levels 
 of Guitar Hero III. This is a good thing, since hard and expert on Guitar Hero III are maddening. 
 The drums are a little trickier, requiring more coordination since you're actively using both hands 
 plus one foot on the kick pedal. This takes some getting used to, but it is fun. I just wish the 
 drums were bigger though, because while you are frantically going at it it's too easy to accidentally 
 hit the edge of the drum and not get credit for playing the note. These are much smaller than real 
 drums.
  
  Some people might be wondering if it's worth owning both Guitar Hero III and Rock Band and I would 
 say yes. Although a few of the songs are on both games, they have different soundtracks (both great) 
 and look and feel a little different. Each has gameplay modes that the other doesn't. The guitar 
 from either game will work on the other, so you don't need to buy 2 guitars. There aren't many 
 music/rhythm games out there amidst all the third person shooters, sports titles, etc... so what's 
 one more for your library? It's a great genre that is especially fun to play with friends.
  
  Rock Band is great fun if you are able and willing to shell out the big bucks. This is probably 
 a purchase for hardcore gamers for whom price is less of an object. Casual gamers who don't buy 
 many games might rather just pick up Guitar Hero III and two other games instead of this one bundle 
 at the same price. I fall into that "hardcore gamer" category and I don't regret the purchase at 
 all, because I was determined to have this innovative experience. But I also think they are charging 
 too much for what's in the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the release of the original Guitar Hero, Harmonix has become extremely popular. However, 
 when they announced they would be leaving the Guitar Hero franchise to work on the new Rock Band, 
 many people were both upset, and hopeful for Harmonix's new creation.
  
  I'm here to tell you that their new creation is probably the best rhythm and multiplayer game ever. 
 Take Guitar Hero. Now add Kareoke Revolution or Singstar to that. Now throw drums on top of all 
 that and what do you get? The most fun you and three other people will have at one time. That's 
 right, Rock Band is mainly a four-player cooperative game, with one player on drums, guitar, bass, 
 and microphone all playing together like a real band. With a great list of tracks to play and the 
 return of some Harmonix band favorites, you'll find youself feeling like a rockstar in minutes.
 
  
  I'm gonna take a moment here to discuss all of the hardware that comes with this game (should you 
 choose to buy the special edition package) because there's so many new things worth noting. First 
 and formost, the largest, most prominent piece is the drumset. While this mimicks a drumset pretty 
 well, there is no port for a headset to talk to people online. Also included are a pair of drumsticks 
 that aren't really the best quality, but they get the job done. Regular drumsticks do the job just 
 fine too in case the ones included break. The only other problem with the drumset is that the bass 
 pedal is very fragile and breaks easily. I've already had mine snap in half (though I do have a 
 tendency to beat the drum a little too hard) . Regardless, the pedal isn't built very sturdy to 
 begin with. You can easily bend it with your hands, which means it will eventually break. Overall, 
 the drums play nicely, and are probably the most fun to play, but are probably not the sturdiest 
 and best of the bunch. Secondly, the game comes with a Fender Stratocaster look-a-like guitar. 
 This guitar, also does not come with a port for a headset on it. However, the guitar shows many 
 improvements over the Guitar Hero guitars. The most noticable of these improvements are the addition 
 of five new solo buttons on the bottom of the neck, and an FX switch, which allows you to change 
 effects you guitar makes during solos. The guitar works averagely. It takes some getting used to 
 the new buttons, and hammer-ons and pull-offs are much harder with the new guitar. However, double 
 strumming is much easier, and when you master the solo buttons, you feel like a true rockstar. 
 This, like the drumset, has also acted up on me. I can no longer strum up, which means double strumming 
 is essentially impossible. Other than the guitar, Rock Band includes a standard microphone that 
 can be hit to act as a tamborine during select parts of a song. The microphone works nicely, and 
 works through the controller, meaning it's the only way you can use a headset. Nothing else can 
 really be said about the mic except that it does what it's supposed to do and is pretty sturdy. 
 Overall, the equipment you'll recieve is decent. It looks good, realistic and it's fun to play. 
 However, it lacks certain features that would be liked (such as headset ports) , and the probability 
 of damage really doesn't make the $170 price tag look attractive.
  
  Back to the game itself. You can either play solo careers for singing, drumming, and playing guitar 
 (sorry bass) , but the real fun lies with making a band with you and a few friends and playing a 
 world tour. During the world tour, you'll play gigs, unlock more songs, new vehicles, shop for 
 clothes and much more. You'll be able to create characters for each instrument and fully customize 
 him in clothes that fit each rock stereotype with crazy haristyles to boot. The only real issue 
 is that there isn't too much customization here, meaning your options are slightly limited. Other 
 than that, the main basis of Rock Band is playing together as a band with your friends. You'll 
 have tons of fun making your own setlists and playing them with your friends while you earn money 
 and eventually play in the big arenas. You'll play a few songs a little more than you'd like to 
 due to random setlists that pick songs for you, but it's all worthwhile because you'll end up having 
 fun regardless.
  
  Other than local play, you can take a few people online and search for other players to join your 
 band. While this isn't as fun as playing with people locally. It still gives you the idea of playing 
 together as a band, and is still fun nonetheless. The only problem here is that there aren't very 
 many people online searching for games, especially those for certain positions (i. e. singers are 
 hard to come by) . And even when you find people, you really can't talk to them if you're playing 
 drums or guitar. Other than that, online multiplayer is still a nice addition, is fun to play, 
 and completely lag-free.
  
  Visually, Rock Band looks fantastic. While it doesn't beat Guitar Hero in pure graphical power, 
 it certainly beats it in presentation. Animations are phenomenal and fluid (thank God... finally 
 a drummer who doesn't look like a robot!) , and stage effects are absolutely amazing. Camera angles 
 are similar to those found in Guitar Hero, but it just makes everything look better, even if the 
 graphics aren't the best out there.
  
  Overall, Rock Band is just fun. It lets you play classic and fun songs while making you and a group 
 of friends feeling like rockstars at the same time. While the instruments may not be the best and 
 most durable, they do their job fine. The idea of creating your own rocker is a great idea, although 
 not as developed as I would have liked it, it still is great to make a person in your image to 
 play with. Regardless of all the little setbacks it has, Rock Band is a phenomenal game for music 
 lovers to play, and is arguably the best rhythm game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_is_link6
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Rock band has been an anticipated game ever since it was announced, and it definitely brings alot 
 to the table. Rocking out feels great on everything when your playing in a group, even the bass. 
 But unless you really want to unlock songs, i dont recommened playing alone on guitar, and especially 
 not bass. Singing's kinda fun, but unless you already know the song, it's much more fun in a group. 
 Drums completely rock, and the story mode for it is probably the only one you should bother playing 
 through. 
  
  Two complaints I have are if you just go into band world tour without doing the story modes, you 
 won't have unlocked the songs, and will come across many constantly if you don't unlock the others. 
 And that it's not on wii. Other than that, Rock band is a solid game, and I definitely recommened 
 it to anyone with an XBOX 360, PS3, Or PS2 when it comes out for it.
  
  One more thing, when you invite friends over to play, you might want to call the drums or be sitting 
 with them before your freinds come over, or else your gonna be fighting over them for a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Wonderful. More realistic than guitar hero which was more of a cartoony look. 
  
  Sound: well its a music game, what do you want? otherwise those annoying boings and bonks when 
 you miss a note, from guitar hero, are gone.
  
  Replay Value: It'll take a while for you to beat every instrument on expert so don't worry. After 
 that the replay value is greater if not better then Guitar Hero.
  
  Gameplay: The new instruments are pretty cool. The drums add a whole new level to it. The microphone 
 is pretty bland though. The guitar is larger and lighter than guitar hero's controllers, but it 
 isnt compatible with guitar hero. The allowable timeing on the notes is noticeably smaller.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwiewel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Update 3/17/08: OK, after playing for several months and seeing all of the DLC that they have made 
 available, this game ROCKS! Hours and hours of fun, and plenty of replayability. Some of the DLC 
 songs are still a little to hard rock for my personal tastes, but still a fantastic game!
  
  Probably the best party game ever.
  
  --------------------------------------
  Having 
 been a huge fan of both Karaoke Revolution games for the original Xbox, I had really high expectations 
 for Rock Band.
  While the blending of KR with Guitar Hero and the addition of the drums are fantastic, the set 
 list seems to keep this game down. Could be just my personal taste in music, but I'm really disappointed 
 in the song selections.
  I would love to see all of the old KR songs available as DLC! The guitar parts also seems harder 
 to nail than Guitar Hero II. I will say, however, I really like the original versions of the songs, 
 rather than the covers on nearly all of the KR songs. I'm sure that took considerably more work 
 than producing the covers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegame1980
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a VERY ambitious title that pushes the limits of what we have learned and known about 
 musical rhythm games. It's a new breed and surely one that is welcomed with open arms. While it 
 does have some flaws Harmonix's new rhythm game has set the bar for what the future will bring. 
 Rockband takes the four key instruments one needs to make a band (guitar, bass, drums, vocals) , 
 and builds a highly addictive game around them. Harmonix were the originators of Guitar Hero so 
 they kinda have an idea of how this should play, but whereas those games were all about the solo 
 experience with little more then shredding to some tunes, Rock Band goes in an entirely different 
 direction. The solo play has now taken a backseat to cooperative multiplayer. This game is all 
 about getting a group of people together and playing as a band to more than 40 different licensed 
 rock hits. The steep $170 price tag for the game and hardware might be a bit pricey for some so 
 if you're goning to put together a band (Which I HIGHLY suggest you do to experience the full depth 
 of what the game offers) ask your friends or future band mates to split the cost with ya. I mean 
 teamwork is the name of the game here and trust me, Rock Band is guaranteed to be a good time, 
 and one of the best party games you'll ever play. 
  
  
  Let's talk about the game. First ,you have the guitar, which lets you play a variation of the same 
 sort of game as Guitar Hero on guitar or bass, but with a few differences. For starters, the Fender 
 Stratocaster guitar itself is built quite differently from the Guitar Hero guitars. It's bigger, 
 with a longer neck, and its body feels more solid. The fret buttons are larger, and flush against 
 the neck of the guitar, and there is a second set of narrower fret buttons all the way down the 
 neck that you can tap on for solos. The guitar even comes with a built-in effects switcher, which 
 puts effects like echo, flange, and wah-wah over the in-game guitar track. While Harmonix clearly 
 looked to create the most realistic and advanced guitar controller to date I myself found the new 
 guitar a little bit uncomfortable and chunky. The buttons felt mushy and the strum bar while hardly 
 makes a sound compared to the Guitar Hero controllers also felt inaccurate and I found myself second 
 guessing weather I was actually playing it right even though the screen and game told me I was. 
 It just didn't feel right for me and I ended up playing the rest of the game with the Guitar Hero 
 III Les Paul controller, which is in my mind the best guitar controller created. Not to mention 
 the Les Paul Guitar Hero III controller is wireless whereas the RockBand Fender is chained down 
 with a USB wire for the 360 version (?) 
  
  The actual guitar gameplay isn't much different from Guitar Hero, with you strumming along and 
 periodically tilting the guitar to engage "overdrive" (the game's equivalent of star power) . The 
 differences in RockBand are that solos are given their own scoring section in each song, and the 
 game tracks the percentage of notes hit during a solo. The higher the percentage, the higher the 
 score bonus you get at the end of the solo. Also the difficulty of the game is a lot less challenging 
 than what the hardcore Guitar Hero fans are probably accustomed to. While this isn't a bad thing 
 since for me Guitar Hero III was a bit TO hard compared to the previous installments RockBand's 
 difficulty may disappoint the hardcore players, but if all you want to do is have fun then there 
 really shouldn't be any worries and if you want a challenge then I suggest those guitar virtuosos 
 sit down behind the skins for awhile which I'll talk about in a minute. Also the hammer-ons and 
 pull-offs appear as half-sized notes on the fret which might make picking them out a bit tough 
 at first forcing players to strum every single note so you might end up screwing up a few solos 
 until you get used to it.
  
  
  Next up there's the singing, which closely emulates Karaoke Revolution and SingStar, but, again, 
 with a couple of specific differences. You sing along as the lyrics display on the screen, trying 
 to match your vocal pitch to the meter that moves up and down with the original vocal track. On 
 the higher difficulty settings, the game is extremely intent on you hitting the pitches as closely 
 as possible with most of the pitch meters not on screen. Still, the singing aspect is fun and you 
 can adjust the original vocal track volume via the controller as you play, so you can use it for 
 as much or as little of a guide as you prefer. The only real issue I had with the mic is that you 
 MUST use a controller as your guide through the menus. A set of buttons with a lock feature on 
 the mic itself would have been nice to have to make things a bit easier.
  
  
  Finally the drums, easily the most intense and enjoyable instrument in the bundle. The kit consists 
 of color-coded pads and a kick pedal, along with a pair of drumsticks. You hit the pads in time, 
 as you would do when you play the guitar and that's it. The way the drums handles overdrive is 
 to give you sections where you can just bust out any kind of drum fill you want. The pads act as 
 a snare, tom-toms, and a crash cymbal. Just be sure you hit the last note at the end of the fill, 
 at which point you will engage overdrive. 
  By themselves, each instrument is fun, but when you get four people together playing at once, the 
 experience is taken to a whole new level. The game was designed for cooperative play, and the multiplayer 
 portion of it shows. Overdrive can be turned on by anyone at any time so long as they have some 
 stored, but the more people you have in overdrive at once, the higher the score bonuses. Also if 
 one person in your band fails out of a song, another member can simply engage overdrive and bring 
 the player back into the game. You can do this up to three times. A nice way to keep the fun going 
 without having to restart a song every time someone fails. The game does a great job of replicating 
 the feeling that you're actually performing a song as opposed to simulating one, and can quickly 
 become a lot of fun fast. 
  
  
  Though the game includes only 45 licensed songs (along with 13 bonus tracks from lesser-known bands) , 
 they span multiple rock genres. Alternative rock features Weezer's, Smashing Pumpkins' and Nirvana. 
 Modern rock has The Killers, Foo Fighters and Yeah Yeah Yeahs. Classic rock fans will find Black 
 Sabbath, The Rolling Stones and KISS. The vast majority of these songs are the original tracks 
 from the artists, with only a few covers scattered throughout. Only a few of the covers really 
 stick out in true crappy Harmonix cover band form. 
  The only problem I have with the track list is the majority of them are only ok at best. I'm not 
 much of a fan of most of these songs and six of them are already in Guitar Hero III so owning both 
 games may make you feel like you're getting ripped off. In my opinion Guitar Hero III trumps Rockband 
 in the songs department ten fold. There's just not enough rock going on in Rockband for me but 
 perhaps that just depends on your friends' personal taste in music. 
  RockBand's focus clearly set as a multiplayer game. This is evidenced by the game's somewhat less 
 captivating single-player experience. You can play solo in quick play, or in one of the three solo 
 career modes, one for guitar, one for vocals, and one for drums. These all follow the basic formula 
 laid down by Guitar Hero, with tiers that unlock in order of increasing difficulty. One nice thing 
 is that each instrument's career offers a totally different track order, scaled to the difficulty 
 for that specific instrument, but that's it. Even Guitar Hero III knew it was time to spice it 
 up a bit by adding in the boss battles and achievements for note streaks or high scores. RockBand's 
 solo career offers none of this. So if you don't have some friends to gather up to form a band 
 you may not have as much fun as I'm talking about as there is yet to be an option to form a band 
 over the internet as stated on the box. Sure you can duel or in RockBands case play "Tug of War" 
 but it's clearly not the same. The progression of the solo career itself is nothing special and 
 nothing of note really happens. Bummer. 
  
  
  The band world tour is the co-op career mode and the meat and potatoes of RockBand. Two to four 
 players can create their own rockers, which is one of the best features RockBand offers (And from 
 here on out should become a main staple of these games including Guitar Hero) you customize your 
 own rocker for each instrument in solo or multiplayer and start out with some basic edits. As you 
 progress the cash you earn in the career mode lets you buy new clothes, tattoos, haircuts, and 
 accessories. Then you and your newly created band start rocking. Friends, or band members, can 
 jump in or drop out at any time, so long as the profile of the band founder is always signed in 
 and playing. The mode is essentially a much more fleshed-out version of the tiered career mode 
 in solo tour. You start out as a local underground band with no cred, playing crappy clubs in your 
 hometown. As you play gigs and perform well, you'll earn more fans, which helps your band progress 
 toward rock stardom. By playing well you earn stars in each gig which are visible as you play to 
 track your progress, and the more stars you collect the more gigs you will unlock in the surrounding 
 cities. As you grow your fan base, you'll earn the opportunity to get a van, a tour bus, and even 
 a jet so you can travel to other cities and countries. You'll also have the chance to acquire roadies, 
 hire a sound guy, get signed to a label, and eventually work your way into the hall of fame. It's 
 an awesome experience, especially for those who care to live the rock dream. 
  
  The mode itself never actually ends, letting you continue to earn fans and keep playing gigs, though 
 after a while you and your band will forced into the higher difficulty settings as there are max 
 caps on the amount of fans you can gain on each difficulty setting, which in my mind was a dumb 
 decision. If you're making a multiplayer party game to be easy and fun to jump in and play the 
 idea is essentially tossed out the window after awhile as you can no longer gain fans once you 
 reach the cap. While you can change your difficulty setting before each gig the fact is not everyone 
 will master the game or it's instruments in order to continually raise the difficulty level making 
 it almost pointless to continue the tour if you're trying to gain fans in order to progress your 
 career. Not a wise choice on Harmonix's part. A better idea would have been increase the amount 
 of fans you earn on the higher difficulties but keep it where no matter what level you play on 
 you continue to gain fans. For example a 5 star set on easy would net you 250 new fans, but a 5 
 star set on expert will gain you 2,000 new fans. People need a reason to keep playing especially 
 when the game throws you the same songs over and over like it does. Make no mistake you will be 
 playing some of the songs at least a half a dozen times during your tour across the globe which 
 becomes tiresome if there's no incentive to play them.
  
  
  Rock Band's presentation is very high in quality, with good character modeling, top-notch motion 
 captured animation work for each musician, and lots of lighting and visual effects during the course 
 of the performance. The presentation quality goes well beyond the visuals. It's the little details, 
 like how some arenas will put your band's name in big lights behind you on stage, or how when you're 
 performing well the crowd will start singing along with the vocalist. Even the game's loading screens 
 are cool, offering generated band photos featuring your created musicians. Singers will lip each 
 and every line correctly, drummers play the skins exactly as they are and even the bass player 
 shows intricate finger picking. It's really something to see if you're not rocking out that is
 
  
  All in all RockBand is absolutely stellar and a whole lot of fun when played with a full band so 
 if you're into rhythm based music games or love the Guitar Hero games you'll fall in love with 
 RockBand.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJD-sin4profit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  (note: This review is for the full box set on XBox 360 and not the stand alone game)
  
  Over Thanksgiving I've been playing Rock Band with family and i can say we had a blast with it 
 playing late into the light. Overall, it's a lot of fun with friends and/or family and despite 
 the guitar portions of the game feeling a bit dumbed down, even for me, compared to the Guitar 
 Hero games. With the addition of vocals and drums there's a lot to do in singleplayer as well.
 
  
  
  Hardware:
  
  The Mic - Though, it's somewhat inconvenient for the vocalist in multiplayer to fumble with the 
 controller during selections screens overall it's fine'n'dandy. You can also use a headset plugged 
 into a controller for vocals.
  
  The Drum - The drums really shine in this package as the best part for me personally. I don't know 
 what most people would use for a drum throne ( or if regular seating effects kick pedal comfort) 
 but since i have an actually adjustable drum throne this wasn't an issue for me. Overall the drum 
 has been quality.
  
  The Guitar - Though i like the look of it, unfortunately, the guitar's a but awkward at first. 
 Starting out it seemed to randomly pause the game this happened everytime before starting a song 
 and once in the middle of a song. After an XBL update however, this problem was gone completely. 
 When i first played the new guitar the "energy activating tilt" ( Star power - GH) didn't even 
 work. It went from not working at all ( i had this thing flipped over my head at times like i was 
 Jimi Hendrix tryin to activate it; nothing happened ) , To randomly activating itself, to activating 
 after a very noticeable delay, and recently it seems to be working just fine... freaky. Though, 
 it still seems to randomly activate at times.
  Coming off of Guitar Hero the new guitar took a little getting use to physically. The strum bar 
 felt "spongy" and the fret buttons are placed in a manner that may have you accidentally activating 
 them.
  Also the Mini buttons ( the "take it to the bridge buttons", Solo Buttons, whatever) . In theory 
 they're suppose to be good for kids and soloing... i don't use'em.
  
  The Wires - Oh dear god... so many damn wires! EVERYWHERE!!! Not only are you running all the instrument 
 controller wires across the floor another problem with the Xbox 360 version of Rock Band is the 
 need to use an included USB hub. If you're wall outlets are already full then yer kinda screwed 
 as this hub requires external power ( from a "wall wart" power cord included, no less) This game 
 will have you begging for wireless peripherals when all is set-up. But hey, if ya known anyone 
 who has setup a personal recording studio in their apartment... i guess ya can call it "the FULL 
 rock experience". 
  
  The Backwards Compatibility - I've heard it reported that the Rock Band guitar does not work with 
 the Guitar Hero series (untested on my part) however i discovered that the Guitar Hero 3 wireless 
 guitar didn't seem to work with Rock Band. The wired Guitar Hero 2 guitar, however, works just 
 fine.
  
  Game:
  
  The Music: So far, The content in this game has been some of the best overall for me (music tastes 
 may very) and, conceptually, an interesting idea from the developers to use this game as a host 
 for downloadable content in the future ( You will pick the songs you WANT, rather then except set 
 lists of future sequels)
  
  Guitar / Bass - This maybe where some Guitar Hero veterans maybe turned off as the game seemed 
 considerably easier then the Guitar Hero series from the guitar side of things. I'm not a Guitar 
 Hero vet, i'm a beginner who's just only recently exploring more of that orange button, and even 
 i felt the "hard" difficulty on guitar was a bit on the easy side. Also Bass gets the short end 
 of the stick by bein even easier then guitar i could have easily seem them add something for the 
 bass side to let it stand on it's own legs but as it is it's just an easier version of the already 
 easier guitar mechanic.
  There's also the "big finish" at the end of some songs. This is a moment of randomly pressing buttons 
 and strumming as quickly as you can to get a score bonus... not as much fun on guitar as it is on 
 drums... it's just there.
  
  Drums - The drum's however are just a matter of getting use to different drum patterns for the 
 most part. The more random the varying drum patterns, the harder the song (Keith Moon, i'm lookin 
 at you) . The issue of physical endurance can come into play in some cases as well as the pattern 
 may not be too difficult to play but the length at which you play it maybe a bit stressing (The 
 Outlaws, now i'm lookin in yer direction) . Adding your own drum fills to activate your multiplier 
 energy (star power) and "big finishes" are great, giving a personal touch to each song. Overall 
 I'd say the drums are the most fun out of the package.
  
  Vocals - I haven't played much with the vocals, but from watching family ( they mostly played it 
 on "easy") It didn't seem all that challenging. Fun if ya like singing and a good way to add someone 
 into the mix who may not be interested in gaming.
  
  Down sides
  
  The down sides i can think of come from the Integration into the Xbox 360 itself then the content 
 of the game for the most part. Apart from the mentioned additional USB Hub needed, swapping instruments 
 with other players can be a bit wonky as everyone has to sign out of their profile first before 
 you can swap instruments. Also as far as character selection, you can't use one character for all 
 the instruments. You need one character per instruments. I guess it makes sense in that one character 
 can't become filthy rich from swapping places but it is kinda annoying.
  The other downside is more future speculation and still not an issue with the game itself but with 
 the handling of downloadable content. If the developers intend to provide extensive downloadable 
 content for the future, i can only hope that XBL Marketplace does an update to better handle this 
 content... Will i have to scroll through a pant-load of various 3 packs, whole albums, and individual 
 songs from said packs and albums to find the music i want? Sounds crowded. Sub-folders, Microsoft... now 
 could be the time to use them.
  
  Overall, I've been having a great time with it and i think it's a great party game as well as a 
 better value then the Guitar Hero franchise. Will it be a Guitar Hero killer? That's all a matter 
 of how the publishers maintain a public interest in a game that's creating a new sales system bypassing 
 the need for sequels. I've already bought a few downloadable songs ( Had ta have the T-Rex song) 
 and i look forward to seeing how the future of the new sales system plays out.
  
  ... hopefully, i won't feel too screwed over... we are dealing through Microsoft, afterall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_astonian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  I have been hearing a lot of people complain about the song list for Rock Band and all I have to 
 say is, IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT ONE GENRE. I don't care that it is called "Rock" Band. You need to 
 learn to concentrate on the whole and not just the bad.
  Anyway, enough ranting. The games gameplay is as solid as possible including multiplayer, and I 
 have even heard rumors of a patch to put Rock Band world tour online.
  Also the amount of effort that they are putting into DLC blows away the amount that Neversoft will 
 put into GH3, just because they want to pump out as many GH games as possible until GH just plain 
 sucks (hmmm reminds me of any game based on a movie) .
  The song list is great, they decided to cover every Genre and era of rock by it's release which 
 is more than I can say about Guitar Hero 3. I mean I am a classic rock fan but even I have my limits.
 
  This game is fun for the whole family. Kids can (but probably won't) play it with their parents, 
 I bet even my grandma would play it, (I can see her now bashing on that drum set) . And it is easily 
 one of the most entertaining games on the market and probably will be forwell until Rock Band 
 2 comes out. This game even rivals Halo 3. (whoopdee doo halo fan boys I said it.)
  In closing it is a great party game, and I recommend you buy it even for the $170 dollar price 
 tag that it comes with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathiasX
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay lemme start out by saying what a very cool game this is. The guitar is great, the bass is 
 great, and the vocals are very fun to sing along with. Now comes the bad part, i'm a guitarist 
 and a drummer so when i sat down on the drums the only thing that was really familiar feeling was 
 the kick pedal. The drums suffer from realistic aspects BIG TIME, if you are a drummer you will 
 probably end up throwing your sticks through the tv.. people who arn't drummers and think this is 
 real, you are dumb. The tour and band name aspect of the game is really neat, its nice to see your 
 name in the light and on a jet plane/tour bus. Great customizations make this game very fun, but 
 ick on the fact that its mostly all fender stuff (bleh I hate fender) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneshotskye
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  The Rock Band: Special Edition collection comes with the game, one microphone, one guitar, and 
 a drum kit. All you have to do is supply the three friends to get the full band experience.
  
  But even if you decide forgo the party element and play solo, it's hard to deny that Harmonix 
 is doing something right with their most recent rhythm game, the seventh title in a music-based 
 series that grows more popular with each peripheral they add to the mix. Frequency and Amplitude 
 were sleeper hits. Guitar Hero was, and still is, wildly popular. Rock Band, therefore, should 
 be an instant classic. But even if the steep $170 price tag turns some people off, it's hard to 
 deny the title is fun, with a fantastic music roster that should have a "go-to" track for just 
 about everyone. There's the classic rock riffs of Black Sabbath, The Rolling Stones, and Boston. 
 There's the contemporary hits that The Killers and Garbage performed. And finally there are the 
 more obscure bands - Yeah Yeah Yeahs, The Strokes, and New Pornographers - to appeal to the indie 
 crowd. You can span the genres, pump the audience, and rock out in clubs around the world to gain 
 the perks necessary for any musical legend in the making: jet, roadies, fans, and money. Groupies 
 not included.
  
  From the main menu, you can choose whether you wish to pursue a world tour with a band, or go the 
 solo artist route. The latter works similarly to Guitar Hero: You choose your instrument and play 
 five songs in various locations, trying to reach the illustrious five-star mark through playing 
 streaks and gaining multipliers (both obtained by hitting a series of correct notes in succession) , 
 all on a new guitar with inlaid buttons and a strummer that doesn't emit that annoying click when 
 you press down on it. In Rock Band, gigs earn you money and garments, and you can deck your character 
 from head to toe in acid-wash denim. Or black leather. Or metal spikes. The possibilities are endless, 
 and your cartoonish rock god will look good in whatever combination of clothes, hair, and ink you 
 choose.
  
  But the solo mode can feel like an afterthought to the game. Multiplayer mode is what makes the 
 title shine, and unless you really want to play through the solo tour with the drums, the multiplayer 
 is what justifies the price tag. Like in solo mode, the band world tour makes you move from city 
 to city, only this time you're playing whole sets instead of songs, and gaining fans instead of 
 just points. Make your own playlists and work together to get through each city. It's fun and addictive, 
 and being a little easier to get through than Guitar Hero III, chances are you'll be playing at 
 least one late-night pan-European marathon with your friends at some point.
  
  So yes, the multiplayer is fantastic, and the graphics are crisp and entertaining to watch. The 
 controls are responsive and the sound, of course, is top-notch, with most of the songs being performed 
 by the original artists. However, there are a few drawbacks, most notably the short song list. 
 You have around fifty songs to choose from, and though you have the option of purchasing new tracks, 
 you might feel gyped at having to shill out an additional ten or so dollars to expand your library. 
 In all honesty, Rock Band should come equipped with something more than a song list that's roughly 
 the same length as a three-disc CD set.
  
  Still, if you're willing to make that investment, and you're looking for a party game, you can't 
 go wrong with Rock Band. The playlist provides a good variety of old and new, popular and rare 
 songs to rock out to, which you will be doing for hours. Gather three friends and work your way 
 into the Hall of Fame.
  
  
  Pros:
  - Bright cartoon-inspired graphics that offer a lot of character customization and humor in their 
 onstage antics.
  - Song list offers something for everyone; every gamer should find a few songs they really enjoy.
 
  - Peripherals (especially the drum) offers a fresh approach to the rhythm game genre - beat, strum, 
 and sing your way towards a major label signing. Controls are sharp and easy to get accustomed 
 to.
  - Band World Tour is fun - one of the best party games to be released in recent history.
  
 
  Cons:
  - Roster of songs is on the short side, and requires players to go to the Xbox Live Marketplace 
 to flesh out their track list.
  - Solo mode is stripped down and not nearly as dynamic as co-op - play five songs, move to next 
 town; play five songs, move to next town.
  - Ease of the game may turn off hardcore Guitar Hero fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactorstl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Now the game is great, but there is some problems with the guitars hard ware but here is how to 
 fix it!! Dead or weird strum bar
  
  1. Take the screws out of the back and place them where you won't lose them, and there are three 
 different sized screws so keep them separated.
  
  2. Take the back off and look a the strum bar. There are two sides of the strum bar so make sure 
 your fixing the right one. The best way to do this is to hold the guitar like you do when you play 
 it and see which side of the strum bar needs fixing (top or bottom)
  
  3. The strum bar works by creating an electrical current when two metal piece are hit together 
 and although it may not look like it. These two pieces of metal are not making a perfect connection
 
  
  4. Take the piece of metal that is the one being hit, not the one doing the hitting 
  and take a pair of tweezers and slightly bend the metal piece closer to the other. I made my end 
 kind of like a tiny hook to ensure connection but do what makes you comfortable.
  
  5. Put back together and start rocking again. I wrote this quick so if things are not making sense 
 please e mail me at xfactorstl@charter. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Excellent visuals and presentation, various controllers are awesome, solid track listings, 
 Band World Tour is the best thing to ever be seen in a music game, character customization is amazingly 
 deep, one of the best, if not the best party games of all time.
  
  The Bad: Band World Tour isn't online... yet, some of the songs aren't so great, some stability 
 worries with the foot pedal.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The music game genre has come a long way since DDR and Amplitude. Guitar Hero has swept the nation 
 and has given wannna be rock stars a chance to rock out without knowing how to actually play guitar. 
 Enter Rock Band, the latest music game franchise from now MTV owned Harmonix and EA, which is the 
 first big step in the further evolution of this genre. Rock Band is all about multiplayer and getting 
 your friends together to form a band. Sure, it's very similar to Guitar Hero, but several major 
 improvements, including the graphics, character customization, multiplayer and general gameplay 
 make Rock Band the single best music game ever made, and probably the best party game of all time 
 as well.
  
  The consept is pretty simple: you have a band that consists of a lead guitarist, a bassist, a vocalist 
 and a drummer. The bundle for Rock Band comes with everything but a second guitar for the bassist, 
 so you'll need to use an old Guitar Hero controller for that. Each controller is something of a 
 marvel. The new guitar, modeled after a Fender Stratocaster, which is the coolest rock guitar ever, 
 feels and plays so much better than even the improved Gibson Les Paul from GH3. The neck is longer, 
 and there is a second set of fret buttons on the bottom of the neck for kids and for those tough 
 solos that you would prefer to avoid strumming ever note on. The strum bar is now silent as opposed 
 to the rather loud clanking of the GH guitars and there is a switch that adds effects for when 
 you go into Overdrive, which is basically the same thing as Star Power. The microphone is a pretty 
 standard USB mic, but it's a high quality one. The drums are by far the coolest part. They take 
 a bit of set up time (around 10-15 minutes) , but they are awesome. The have adjustable legs, a 
 place to store your drumsticks, a footpedal and are just plain cool to look at. The 360 version 
 comes with a hub, because none of the periphrials are wireless, but that's ok because they all 
 are awesome!
  
  Rock Band has several different modes of play: solo tour, Band World Tour and various online modes. 
 The solo tour is basically where you create a character from the robust character creation features, 
 then rock out by yourself on the drums, mic or lead guitar. Sorry Bassists, no solo tour for you... 
 You unlock new songs by beating the entire set you're on until you finish off all of the songs. 
 There are also bonus songs that you unlock by beating the song before it. Pretty simple. There 
 are just over 60 songs in all, with tons of downloadable songs available and more on the way. I 
 would advise you to beat solo tour at least once before going on to Band World Tour, but I'll get 
 into that in a sec.
  
  The gameplay itself has changed quite a bit from Guitar Hero. The guitar gameplay is a bit different 
 due to the addition of clearly defined guitar solos and big rock endings. The guitar solos are 
 now defined by having the note board change blue, and a percentage counter appear on the screen 
 that tells you what percentage of the solo notes you've hit. The higher your percentage, the more 
 bonus points you will earn by the end of the solo. Big Rock Endings are basically where you go 
 crazy at the end of a song. You have all of the frets lit up and you pretty much randomly hit as 
 many notes as you want, making sure you hit the notes following the big rock ending to get the 
 bonus points. This is especially fun with drums, and is the way of activating Overdrive with those. 
 Speaking of the drums, you basically have four big drums and a foot pedal to use. It takes a bit 
 of practise to get use to especially the foot pedal, but it's awesome once you do. There is a bit 
 of a stability issue, especially with the foot pedal, but mine has been used a ton and still is 
 working fine. The vocalist part plays exactly like Karaoke Revolution. You sing into the mic and 
 basically try to hit the pitch it wants you to. There are some parts where you ad lib to activate 
 star power, and you have to talk without worring about pitch in a few songs, both of which are 
 new for Rock Band. Your mic also doubles as an extra drum, tamberine or cowbell in certain songs.
 
  
  Band World Tour is by far the best thing about the game. You basically make a band, including a 
 name, band logo and quote about your band, and play sets to earn fans, fame and fortune. What songs 
 you play depends a lot upon what city your band is based out of, which is an interesting dynamic. 
 You band can earn various modes of transportation in certain sets as well as money which you can 
 use to buy new outfits, instruments and much more for your character. Fans play a major part in 
 BWT. You earn fans based on how well you and your band preforms. If you preform well at a big ampatheater, 
 your band will earn a bunch of fans. If you bomb at a local club, you may loose some, but not as 
 many as you would if you bombed at a major gig. The more fans you have, the better your band is 
 and the higher you'll rise on the leaderboards. BWT is unending, so it can go on forever, especially 
 with all of the promised DLC coming in the future. In BWT, your band must work together to be successful. 
 If your drummer is struggling on a tough fast section, your guitarist can same him by activating 
 Overdrive. Any player can save another, but the vocalist and drummer can only activate it a select 
 times, so most of the time it's the bassist or guitarist who will be the band's savior. It's just 
 awesome to see you and your friends acting like total fools and rocking out with these plastic 
 instruments, but that is what Rock Band is all about, and that is what makes it the best.
  As I mentioned before, unless you beat solo tour at least once, you'll be playing a lot of the 
 same songs over and over again in BWT. I played Nirvana's "In Bloom" at least 15 times since I 
 started BWT, which it does get old after a while, so make sure you unlock some songs first before 
 checking out this awesome more. The only downside is that BWT isn't online, but Harmonix has already 
 said that it will be and that they are rapidly working on it, so we can expect to see an online 
 version sometime next year.
  
  The online modes are basic band quick play and tug o' war, where you play against another player 
 using the same instrument, play the same song and see who is better. It's an interesting idea that 
 I hope to check out soon.
  
  The graphics and presentation of Rock Band is simply outstanding. Harmonix really outdid themselves 
 in the visuals department. The character models and lip synch is almost perfect, unlike the wide 
 mouth spooky singers from Guitar Hero 3. The interface is extremely well done, allowing all preformers 
 to have plenty of room to see their part in the song. The soundtrack is really solid, but a few 
 of the songs aren't so hot. Luckily, with the promise of weekly DLC, bands will constantly have 
 new songs to play. The Rock Band store sells individual songs, three song packs and eventually 
 entire albums will be available. The cost is less than the crappy Guitar Hero 2 and 3 packs that 
 have come out, which is pretty much another slap in the face of Harmonix's old series.
  
  The fact is, Rock Band is simply one of the best, if not the best music and party game of all time. 
 The amazing multiplayer and depth of the game helps propell it past the once though untouchable 
 Guitar Hero franchise and it will continue to rise up the charts. So grab this game and a few friends 
 and get rocking out!
  
  Gameplay: Amazing multiplayer through the Band World Tour, fantastic controllers, deep character 
 customization and visuals make Rock Band the best of it's kind.
  
  Graphics: Blows all the visuals Guitar Hero 3 has out of the water.
  
  Sound: Excellent track 
 list will continue to improve with time because of DLC.
  
  Value: It's $170 for the bundle, but it's well worth it for the many hours of fun you will have 
 with this game.
  
  Final Thoughts: Guitar Hero had better get their farewell tour ready...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1upMushroomX6
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  alright to start off you open the bundle that cost you $170
  you get the drum set
  one wired fender stratocaster "toy" guitar
  and a wired mic with a respective rock band logo 
 on it
  
  well just some opening words: i play the real guitar and ive gotta say the guitar actually has 
 almost the same feel of the real fender. excepts for the weight etc. i never played the drums but 
 the drums included with this game is pretty correct to what i think the drums would feel like. 
 the mic is just a microphone.
  
  well the game play is pretty good just basicly like your guitar hero series was played. the singing 
 is a little different its based off of karaoke revolution and you actually have to sing the lyrics 
 to get the pitch right. as you may have heard in the other reviews, people complain how the guitar 
 is crappy and the drums are stupid etc. but i find that hard to believe the guitar is actually 
 more life like with the clean finish and the extra set of frets and life like size makes it that 
 much more of a rich experience. you wont need to use the extra frets cause really theyre isnt that 
 hard of solos for the guitar parts. 
  
  
  the drums are pretty fun and feel pretty durable. the thing im afraid of is having a friend over 
 when he plays the drums and he slams down on the bass pedal and snaps it. so im taking extra precausion. 
 yes their is a rush song in there, and yes that means ,on expert, you have to play a neil peart 
 song so good luck with that.
  
  this game is pretty good with its familar levels (easy, medium, hard, expert)
  so this game is 
 easy for novices and guitar hero familars so dont get me wrong this a pretty solid game.
  
  the song list is quite satisfying with some of my favorite bands and their songs such as Boston, 
 Bon jovi, blue oyster cult, metallica, the who, the ramones, foo fighters, soundgarden, rush, red 
 hot chilli peppers, aerosmith, black sabbath, iron maiden, and molly hatchet this should keep any 
 classic rock fanatic entertain for maybe 3 or 4 sittings by them self and maybe 20 with friends 
 over.
  
  this bring me up to my other point, party play
  the party play is amazing just invite who ever is familar over with guitar hero and pick the worst 
 person at guitar hero there to be your singer. make him/her earn their stripes...
  
  well this wraps up my review peace enjoy rock band 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joejohnson16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is the first game I could say that almost every gamer might actually enjoy. It has all 
 the instruments you could ask for and the game play never gets tired because there is always more 
 songs to unlock and you have to perfect every song to get more.
  
  The song list is the best I have every seen. It has rock music from the sixties including The Rolling 
 Stones all the way up to the nineties with Nirvana and The Killers.
  
  It is also a great family game. My family was so addicted to the game that we played it together 
 for at least three hours. 
  
  The Bad: 170 is a bit much, online is a bit soft, multi player could have been better.
  
  The 
 Good: New songs all the time, making your own band, all the other features included
  
  Conclusion: If there is any game you want for the holidays this should be the first one on the 
 list because it never goes away in value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaneCreech
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  A great game with great music, but design issues limit the enjoyment for novice players.
  
  I am a bit disappointed with the guitar controller issues and I am disappointed that you can't 
 perform a full world tour with others unless everyone ramps up the difficulty. I'm no expert (medium 
 and hard) , but the others in my family are easy/medium players and sadly we likely all won't get 
 the enjoyment of completing the game together on the difficulties of our choosing.
  
  Overall the music is the best out there in this game category and the game is a blast for all ages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjmiiirep
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  I have never played the guitar hero games. i purchased Rock Band because everyone seems to love 
 the GH series and a buddy of mine is a drummer so I figured Rock Band was the way to go.
  
  The graphics are solid and the screen has alot of information but it is never confusing. The game 
 requires teamwork and that is alot of fun. if someone in your band misses a note you can tell and 
 you can save them and they can save you. It was the most fun I had playing a game against someone 
 since Halo on-screen coop. It was very addicting.
  
  My only real complaint is that to join a World Tour as a band each player has to sign into a live 
 account. My friend doesn't play video games so I have to borrow another account from my sister. 
 I think that is a big problem with people who have friends they want to play with and these friends 
 don't have a live account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeverEndingXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is an excellent multiplayer game which takes every element of the Guitar Hero series 
 and adding spices to it.
  
  Price = $170 (Is it worth it?)
  
  Graphics = This game may not have the best graphics on the 360 platform, but they do make the game 
 look great and help make the game more enjoyable to play. I noticed several graphical issues while 
 playing but they are extremely easy to get past and you will love the game all the same. One problem 
 I had about the graphics was the frame rate. On the television I was playing on the frame rate 
 was very choppy and didn't flow smoothly with the lyrics and the game. So if you want to rock out 
 with excellent graphics, I suggest a high-def television. 7.5/10
  
  
  Gameplay = One of the most unique and free-form out of any other game ever invented. The Guitar 
 element is probably the least enjoyable because It has been seen and done before by Harmonix's 
 Guitar Hero. Also, if you have played Guitar Hero and do really good on expert, your not necessarily 
 going to kick-ass on Rock Band. I found the neon rectangular notes annoying and uncool. Another 
 nuisance is the hammer-ons and pull-offs. They are a lot harder to pull off because of the annoying 
 smaller rectangular notes to indicate you do not have to strum. Although that seems simple to identify, 
 but when playing you aren't going to notice them at all. You are probably better off playing them 
 by ear. With each component working together, instead of feeling like your playing by someone. 
 You actually feel like your harmonizing and playing like a band. For instance if your drummer fails 
 out, the bassist and the guitarist may do significantly worse due to the fact that the main rhythm 
 has been taken away. 9.5/10
  
  Hardware = The guitar is very sleek and sexy looking but it feels like you can totally bend it 
 in half. Everything about the guitar is excellent but it is very hard to get used too, if you have 
 played hours of Guitar Hero. It is also extremely difficult to use the smaller buttons on the lower 
 half of the guitar neck. The drums are very exciting to play, I haven't yet found one thing to 
 annoy drum users. It is very stable and sturdy. The only weak-point is probably the kick-pedal 
 for the base drum. If you give that a good stomp, it may as well break in half. Be careful with 
 the mic, my friends was broken when he opened the box. The mic is very well built though, but internally 
 the hardware doesn't respond and you may have to take it back to get a new one. 8.5/10
  
  
  Rock Band was very enjoyable for the short hours I have played it. If you liked the guitar 
 hero series and you want to play with some friends. You may want to pick this up.
  
  Now is it really worth $170?
  Yes, I believe so. When all of these pieces of hardware connect 
 and harmonize together it brings about fairies in the air that want to whisper in your ear and 
 hold you until your heart comes to a stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Where do I begin... 
  
  
  The Rock in Rock band: The music selection takes the all-musical-genre song selection they used 
 in Guitar hero 2 and spreads it out even further than before, and also does one great thing Harmonix 
 is known for: revealing great songs you may have never heard of... And if you're looking for great 
 classics from 60's, 70's, and beyond, you're in luck (the ability to choose by decade is also available) . 
 The final song (for guitar, at least) contains 3058 notes, and will give you a very strong respect 
 for country music.
  
  The Band in Rock Band: It would be very easy to point at Guitar Freaks/Drummania Jam Session back 
 in the day, but that's a very bad decision - One other great talent Harmonix has a knack for is 
 a sense of more realism towards the instruments: Instead of trying to make the notes simply ridiculously 
 challenging in the higher up songs, it goes for exactly what it would be like on the real thing. 
 
  
  Wailing Out: The guitar, wireless or not, has recieved some substantial upgrades: Noise distortion 
 during Overdrive, better known as star power. Solo keys have been added on the higher end of the 
 neck near the strum bar for those really nasty parts. Finally, the look of it is based on the true 
 fender stratocaster, an iconic guitar through the generations. Much better than the X-plorer, which 
 looks a little more like something you'd find in toys R' Us at the mall.
  
  No point in doing a chord for something that's just strumming one note... one good example of overdoing 
 challenge vs. realism that I'd like to point out from gh3 is Slayer's raining blood on expert, 
 Mosh 1. What's that about?
  As far as drums go, it can easily be one of the most challenging parts of rock band - Try doing 
 Run to the Hills on expert and watch as your arms slowly melt off.
  
  And finally, the microfone for singing. Not much has changed since Karaoke Revolution, except for 
 the following addition: Percussion instruments can be used at certain times during break periods 
 between singing by whacking the mic on your hand, leg, or other extremities. Cowbell, anyone?
 
  
  Modes of Rock: Naturally, there are solo tours for all 3 instruments, not all of them in exact 
 order: GGAHT is relatively easy on expert compared to the guitar solo tour. The main attraction, 
 however, is BWT, somewhat RPGish for doing all 2-4 instruments at the same time. If you lose during 
 a gig, you'll be losing fans because of it... depending on where you're playing, that can mean 
 a minor loss, or if you're playing in front of thousands, it can mean the end of a lovely career. 
 
  
  Making the Band: The customization for both characters and logos is pretty good in variety - You'll 
 be able to buy not only clothes and instruments, but glasses, tattoos using an art collection in 
 Rock Band's Database. The art maker system allows you to rotate, scale, move, and do quite a few 
 other things to the preselected art choices. Basically, it's photoshop on your bod. The same art 
 is used for the logo as well, though you may not see that as much.
  
  The Bottom Line: This is the best in the series, game of the year, and both the best of music games 
 and party games alike. There's something for everybody, and you'll be busy with this game for hours, 
 and hours, and.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  Understand right up front that I'm approaching this review from a somewhat different angle then 
 the vast majority. For one thing, I have never used any of the actual Rock Band peripherals, and 
 I have not played one single lick of the online aspects of this game either. 
  
  Without delving too heavily into my reasoning let me just sum it up by saying that I am not all 
 that involved in online multiplayer in general, and being in that I already own one each of the 
 two Guitar Hero controllers and a Xbox live headset I chose not to buy the entire Rock Band package. 
 I know some reviewers have been raving about the drum experience in RB, but to be perfectly honest 
 I wouldn't have any interest in a "Drum Hero" game and I'm not all that worried about missing out 
 on it here either
  
  I would normally not review a title without experiencing such fundamental aspects of the game play, 
 but since I have to assume some other gamers will be making this same choice that I have, I feel 
 that this perspective is relevant.
  
  You could look at this as more of a GH vs. RB comparison then a flat out review of the title, so 
 if you're looking for a more comprehensive evaluation of the whole Rock Band package I would suggest 
 you read the professional review of the game instead.
  
  Rock Band is a cool game, there is no doubt about that, but fellow Guitar Hero fans should know 
 going in that it should definitely not be considered a fourth installment in the GH series regardless 
 of the obvious gameplay similarities. RB is clearly intended to be more of an overall band simulation 
 then simply a guitar shredding game, and it definitely shows. I personally prefer the track list 
 in RB by leaps and bounds over the past two installments of GH, but as this game is not centered 
 on the guitar itself the tracks tend to feature less of the carpal tunnel inducing guitar solos 
 then the GH series is known for. Consequently GH aficionados will probably find RB to be much less 
 challenging and not quite as exciting to play if they focus strictly on the guitar aspects of the 
 game.
  
  On the flip side, Rock Band tends to be much less forgiving when it comes to timing your notes, 
 and while the tracks themselves are far easier to play, you will probably find yourself making 
 a lot more mistakes then you likely would playing the same songs in GH. Not only due to the timing 
 being more precise, but because the game itself just seems a bit less responsive then Guitar Hero 
 in my opinion. I don't know if this is partly due to the fact that I'm using a peripheral from 
 a different game, but I don't seem to experience quite as many questionable mistakes playing GH 
 as I do in this title. In particular, the sections that feature rapid successions of the same note 
 or chord seem to be bizarrely difficult to flawlessly pull of. Regardless of whether I attempt 
 these sections by rapidly clicking the pick bar down, or strumming in both directions, I just can 
 not seem to get perfect repetitions when they are coming at any kind of speed.
  
  Another issue I have with the guitar aspects of RB is that the hammer-on/pull-offs look far too 
 similar to the standard notes. RB simply shortens the width of the note icons on these, which can 
 make them tough to recognize during play, particularly when they aren't directly next to a standard 
 sized note.
  
  On the positive side of things, Harmonix has evolved their original concept into a much better 
 overall game experience then it ever was in Guitar Hero. For starters, there are no cookie cutter 
 developer created characters here; you must put together your own personal rock star from the ground 
 up using a nicely flushed out create-a-character mode with dozens of clothing, hair, and accessory 
 options at your disposal. There is even a relatively deep tattoo and face painting system included 
 based largely on the vinyl layering system most console racing games feature these days.
  
  I find it rather annoying that you cannot customize your entire band in this fashion when you play 
 in solo mode; rather you are forced to live with the bizarre ensemble the game chooses for you, 
 which can look extremely odd depending on your choice of style. The band does change as you progress 
 through the solo mode, but rarely did my character not seem completely out of place in the band 
 he was in. Imagine Gene Simmons (in full makeup) joining Hootie and the Blowfish and you can get 
 a pretty good visual of how bizarre this can all end up looking. Seeing as how you can create a 
 full band in the multiplayer modes it seems like this could have been pretty easily implemented 
 into the solo mode if the developers had wanted to allow it.
  
  While on the subject of the visual aspects of Rock Band, the game does look absolutely fantastic, 
 but in a vastly different way then Guitar Hero. From a technical standpoint, GH seems to have better 
 graphics then RB, but it's a tougher call to say which game actually "looks better". GH's graphics 
 seem much crisper then Rock Band's, but RB comes across a lot more realistically then GH does overall. 
 GH seems a bit more "cartoony" in comparison, and the on-stage presentations in Rock Band definitely 
 come across more like you are watching an actual video/concert. The on-stage antics of the band, 
 lip synching and camera angles in RB are much more interesting the GH, and at times the various 
 filters and special effects RB employs will make you feel like you are watching actual band footage. 
 Add to this that the loading screens in RB feature great still shots of your created character 
 (and the rest of the band) on billboards, album covers, and in candid photos that look like they 
 really could have been ripped right out of an actual cd layout. 
  
  On an auditory level RB sounds every bit as good as GH does, and at times even better. The songs 
 sound outstanding in digital surround, and when you are performing exceptionally well the audience 
 will actually sing along with your bands vocalist, making it sound all the more like you are listening 
 to an actual band performing live. Guitar Hero will make you feel like more of a guitar god, but 
 Rock Band does a better job of immersing you in an actual concert experience. The only complaint 
 I have about RB's sound design in general is that it can be a little harder to recognize when you 
 have missed a note during play. You will hear a difference of course, but it is not nearly as obvious 
 or disruptive as the metallic clangs GH spews out at you when you make a mistake. 
  
  All things considered Rock Band is an excellent game, and probably a lot more fun in a group scenario, 
 but overall it is not nearly as thrilling or rewarding an experience as Guitar Hero for a solo 
 player. Several weeks into playing Guitar Hero 3 I am still struggling with many of the tracks 
 on expert, (and I have still yet to beat "Lou" on any difficulty beyond Medium) but I played through 
 all of RB on hard mode in one sitting, and after finishing nearly half of the game in expert mode 
 I have yet to fail a single track.
  
  Like GH, Rock Band also features downloadable tracks to add to the game, but unlike GH's somewhat 
 annoying track pack setup you can actually purchase the songs individually to create your own customizable 
 set list. Add to this the prospect of buying entire albums to add to the game and Rock Band should 
 continue to be a game you can enjoy for a long time to come. I do not see myself spending quite 
 as much time playing alone in RB as I do in GH, but that cannot be considered a fault since it 
 is clearly intended to be more of a group experience in general.
  
  To put it simply, if you want an excellent single player experience Guitar Hero definitely wins 
 the battle here, but if you are looking for a game you can play online or with a group of friends 
 Rock Band is probably the way to go. Rock on. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentx94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game! All the songs are great and there are even some great Guitar Hero 3 songs 
 included. Rock band is a game where you can rock with up to 3 other people. Two playing guitar (Lead 
 and Bass) One on drums, and one on the microphone. The only problem i have found is that i can 
 not find the bundle online. I rented this game from an online game rental place and i am using 
 the Guitar hero guitar but i want to play drums. The drums are in the Bundle and the bundle is 
 never instock. But overall the game is great and is a great party game. If you have a brother or 
 sister it is also recommended to get so you can play with them.
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrS_OnE22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome, my kids and I have had a blast this last week playing. It's like "Guitar 
 Hero" x10. We created a band, and we're trying to unlock all of the songs. You can purchase clothes, 
 tattoos, and instruments. I'd highly recommend getting this game. It will provide hours and hours 
 of enjoyment for everyone. Everyones favorite instrument seems to be the drums, as they are pretty 
 tough to play if you are not used to actually playing them. The guitar looks and feels pretty close 
 to a real "Fender Stratocaster". I have the Xbox 360 version, and use the "Guitar Hero" guitar 
 as the bass. We seem to fight over who gets to play drums but I usually am stuck with singing, 
 lol. Thumbs up for a great game. My family and I finally completed the "Endless Setlist" on HARD. 
 It took around four hours, and was a GRUELING event! After all that we only received 20k fans, 
 man we were disappointed! But after checking it out, we became "GOLD" artists. That was worth it....... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faceman420
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  The bundle comes with a mic, guitar, and drum kit. The mic is pretty decent and has cool tamborine 
 functionality in the game. The guitar is pretty sweet with a second set of frets that some people 
 may want to use, but I do not. Many RB guitars, like mine, has malfunctioned - specifically the 
 strum bar. Although this is an irritating inconvenience, the replacement procedures are fully online 
 and painless. I have yet to see how quick they send it (they claimed 2 days) but this is after 
 all not a review of EA customer service. The drum set is pretty durable although I have heard reports 
 of faulty kick pedals. The sticks make an awful noise on the hard plastic pads, but I guess more 
 impact absorption would have meant more money on the bundle which is already pretty steep.
  
  
  The world tour mode is great and there are some nifty customizable options in terms of 
 your band's appearance. The song lineup is pretty decent, although I liked Guitar Hero 2's song 
 list a lot more. You may have to calibrate your instrument so it's spot on during gameplay. This 
 set is totally worth it if you have a steady supply of people to play with, but as a solo game 
 it's still on par with Guitar Hero. D/L-able songs and song packs will be available in the upcoming 
 months, but I wish I didn't have to pay extra for something that is noticeably lacking in the game. 
 If the song list is short, then we should at least get some free downloads. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Only downside is-there is already quite a few PAY FOR MUSIC on the marketplace, which is really 
 the only thing I don't get. The game is not cheap and they (EA) wants you to start forking out 
 more for new tracks. There are not a lot of songs, but this is still a good game from the developers 
 of Guitar Hero. I have owned this for a couple days now and have to say its really good. Having 
 my neighbor over and playing Co-op is really fun. Sounds are great and the visuals are Guitar Hero 
 all over again. If you have close to $200 dollars to spend for something new and fun... this is 
 the way to go. Only multi-player is good and all the single player can be fun.... but with the drums, 
 be prepared to get aggravated!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowdancer96
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying Rock Band is one of the most fun games I've played in ages. The different 
 ways of playing (Mic, Drums, or Guitar) all just FEEL right. When you've got a group together the 
 feeling can't be beaten.
  
  Rock Band's presentation is darn good, and allows you to create a rocker, and then deck them out 
 in all sorts of different clothes, accessories, and tattoos.
  
  The "instruments" all look and feel of a high quality. The guitar is a great design (despite a 
 weird color choice for the neck) and has a notch in the back allowing it to rest easily against 
 the body. The fret buttons are indent (as apposed to raised, as w/ the Guitar Hero brands) and 
 the strum bar is squishy instead of clicky. It'll come down to a matter of preference, but this 
 is my favorite guitar thus far in this genre.
  
  The drums are, well, a full set of drums. They're a huge size (no bongos here!) and come with a 
 set of wooden drum sticks and a foot pedal, used as the "foot drum". For anyone new to drumming 
 I'd really recommend you start on easy, as this game will chew you up and spit you out if your 
 rhythm is even slightly off. 
  
  The singing portion rates a singer on the pitch and tone of the lyrics they sign. You'll need to 
 be able to hit both high and low notes to get anywhere as a singer, but if you can then you'll 
 have a blast with this portion of the game as well.
  
  Rock Band stumbles, however, in a few places that Harmonix should have known better. We'll start 
 with the song list. 45 songs just isn't that much, and particularly in the game's excellent band 
 career mode you'll end up repeating the same set over and over. It's a little annoying to have 
 to play the same song two or three times not only in the same city, but even the same venue. What's 
 there is of excellent quality and shows a nice variety of genres, but 45 songs is pretty much the 
 equivalent of 3 compilation CDs. You'll hear everything there is to hear in about 3 hours. 
  
  Rock Band is planning on a very aggressive line-up of new songs, planned on a weekly release 
 schedule at least through X-mas. Downloaded songs become available in the career mode, which is 
 great. Still, after dropping 170 dollars for one game, I'd expect a little more out of the box. 
 Let's hope Rock Band 2 ships with a larger library, and doesn't expect to see the customer pick 
 up the tab by buying the missing half of the songs online.
  
  As I've been alluding to, Rock Band is at it's absolute best when playing in a group. Having everyone 
 in the same room wailing on the mic, hammering on drums, and plucking away at fake strings just 
 can't be beat. This is THE best party game of the year, Wii fans be damned.
  
  However, the single-player portion of the game is pretty weak. You can go through on each of the 
 instruments, but each just takes you through a set of songs based on the difficulty for that instrument. 
 It's not dynamic like the multiplayer campaign, and having to do each song in a set is kind of 
 annoying if you REALLY don't like a particular one.
  
  That said, if you're in to rhythm games and you've got at least one friend who can stop by on a 
 regular basis, you'll get a real kick out of Rock Band. Just be aware that the already high cost 
 of entry (170 bucks right now) only gets you in the door. To keep the party going, you'll almost 
 need to start shelling out for extras right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I've played the drums, I've played the guitar, I've woken the neighbors with my horrible singing 
 voice, and I had fun. When you put four people in a room with a copy of Rock Band, they won't come 
 out without a smile on their faces.
  
  The music selection is awesome. If you don't like the song then you probably won't care that much 
 because you're lost in the gameplay. The singer might have problems though, but that ego could 
 take a hit or two.
  
  Enough terrible jokes, time to get down to the nitty-gritty of the game, the instruments. The guitar 
 works well once you get a hang of it. (It feels tighter and more comfortable than the GH guitars, 
 but works the same way.) The drums are a god-send, you'll have fun playing these regardless if 
 you do well or not. The foot pedal you have to use gets annoying on long songs but it's worth it 
 in the long run. The singing is touchy, and the weak point of the game for sure. If you have a 
 band, you'll probably have the same singer for every song, and in Rock Band's Band World Tour mode, 
 you have to sing every song. Girl songs and song sung by high-pitched men are extremely hard and 
 sometimes you just can't hit a pitch.
  
  The career mode for single player works almost exactly like the Guitar Hero games but the selling 
 point for this is the character customization. It's amazing, you have so many costume and instrument 
 choices that you'll be editing and messing around with your avatar's appearance for quite some 
 time. The tattoo system is amazingly involved, and this again can consume a lot of time.
  
  Where the game truly shines is the co-operative Band World Tour mode that I mention earlier. It 
 once again takes you to different cities and venues but the cool part comes in with the extra things 
 it lets you do. It lets you put together sets of songs to play if you don't like the songs it offers 
 you, and if you don't care it gives you a set of two songs to jam to. After you play a gig you 
 get the regular star rating and you get more fans. The better the performance the more fans, more 
 fans equals more money and more venues, more money and venues starts the entire process over again.
 
  
  If you have the choice between GH games and Rock Band, buy Rock Band. The price tag is steep but 
 eventually they will sell the peripherals and game separate so you can pick and choose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potohead120
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I've played GH here and there but never owned the game, I couldn't really get into it and I wasn't 
 very good at it either, in the other hand my wife loved it but we still never got it.
  
  Enter Rock Band when we heard of this game we got excited we always wanted to be in a band but 
 we both lack some on the talent department also we never had enough money to purchase real instruments, 
 so we waited and waited for this game finally the day came and we got it.
  
  We set up in our bedroom, it was really easy to do, we practice a bit to get the feel for everything, 
 we did our respective tutorials and I started on Drums she on the Guitar, we created our band "The 
 AiIling Caboodle" and we embarked on the road we started on medium and kinda struggled but after 
 working on the songs we got it.
  
  This game is addictive to the point that my wife bothers to play it (she is never been into games 
 unless it was on a Gameboy) , we are on the road right now kicking some caboodle and ahveing the 
 time of our lives.
  
  This game drives you to want to get better at the songs and it gives you a sense of acomplisment 
 when you get a song that you thought impossible. The World tour mode is great beacuse it allows 
 you to create your own persona, Name your band and also choose the design of your Logo.
  
  Then you start in small clubs with some easy some hard songs and from there you earn some cash 
 fans and doors start openning for you, vans, busses, roadies, a manager, etc.
  
  The online part of it is fun too when you think you are doing great and then you go out online 
 and you get the pants kicked off of you, you come back to reality. You acn play Tug of war, Score 
 battle and you acan use any instrument you want or your voice.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone that loves music and to interact with others, it is always a party 
 over here, so get up and got get it if you can still find some around.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtrfreak182
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Good:
  Peripherals are well made (at least mine were) , Challenges you, Unbelievable multiplayer, Awesome 
 graphics, huge selection of instruments and customization options for clothing, the ultimate party 
 game
  
  Bad:
  Single Player gets boring rather quickly, creating the look of your character is very limited, 
 vocals are almost impossible even to a good singer
  
  I don't think I need to go too in-depth with the good but will merely touch on the bad. The single 
 player will bore you rather quickly. It is essentially guitar hero x3. The only thing I liked more 
 about rock band single-player is that you don't need to start on easy. You can start on expert 
 if you choose to. The look of your character is very limited in each gender you only have 5 options 
 for height, weight, and face. About 10 options for hair and 4 options for style (rock, metal, punk, 
 goth) . You can't do everything you might like to. I am lead singer in a band and can sing most 
 of the songs rather well and was very comfortable in hard mode (4, 5 stars every time except for 
 boston lol) ; however, the expert campaign was very strict. you had to be exactly on the pitch that 
 it gives you on slides and even talking. I started failing some easy songs and have realized how 
 impossible the 100% on vocals expert achievement will be.
  
  Besides those three flaws, this game was by far the best game i've played for the 360. It is well 
 worth your money if you have the people to do BWT. If you plan on playing this like guitar hero, 
 it's not even worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgking06
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  the game overall is fun, not gonna lie it's a good time as a party game. the drums take a lot of 
 getting use to at first. and vocals are vocals that's not anything too hard. but where this game 
 goes completely wrong is on the guitar portions of songs. what happened? they're overly easy and 
 what happened to hammer ons and pull offs? this is where i became really disappointed with the 
 whole game was when i was just playing guitars, if you dont have a bunch of people to play with 
 and wanna play guitar, go to GH2 or 3 to fill your need. because this game will not fill it. 
 
  
  at $170 it could of come with a lot better guitar, the strum bar feels funny, even though its nice 
 to get rid of the clicking, and the buttons for it seem really stiff compared to past guitars. 
 and if you're thinking well the lower buttons are cool, they're not it's the same as the top ones 
 and dont really have a need to be there. 
  
  the drums are a good time once you get use to them and you can really get into it hardcore. guitar 
 tends to disappoint at most times, vocals are alright, the songs could of been better that they 
 chose personally i find the listing disappointing, downloadable stuff though will make it better 
 with full nirvana and metallica albums being released. 
  
  overall if you want a great party game this is it, if you want a game just for solo save some money 
 and get guitar hero 2 or 3, it will make up for it, you can always experience drums when you get 
 friends and it's actually worth buying the whole package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ucanimurself
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  I give this game a 9 out of 10.
  
  I will start with the bad.
  
  I got this game at 5pm and the guitars strumming broke at 6:30pm. Pretty lame. I got very upset 
 because It was brand new and this type of problem is held directly with the manufacturer. The down 
 strumming doesn't work but the up does. If yours works than your lucky. But I read some reviews 
 on Gamestop and other people are having the same problem. I called the line provided by the EA 
 website to see if they can replace the parts and the phone would ring twice then randomly the person 
 would just cancel the call. Pretty damn low. 
  
  
  The Pros.
  
  A very good party game! Even though we had to strum up it was a lot of fun because all the other 
 plastic instruments worked out fine. The song selection was also pretty cool because they got a 
 variety of music and there downloadable content is going to have one song a week. That is pretty 
 damn good because guitar hero takes longer and that game is just based off guitar. The variety 
 of instruments is fun and for those people who think people don't want to sing they are wrong. 
 All my friends wanted to take turns on the instrument and we managed to get 4 stars (out of 5) 
 on medium and we were still able to play some songs on hard. Except for my brother who was able 
 to play on expert. The sound quality on this game is good and they are all master tracks. When 
 a person chooses to sing they can still hear the original band singer but their voice goes over 
 it. So Really this is a must buy for any system just pray your guitar doesn't break because it 
 makes the game pretty difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A2c3A
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Drums just plain rock... is there more to say?
  ohh and yeah and multiplayer is great!
  How about selling just individual instruments though... that would make it a lot more affordable... 
 I garuntee more people would agree with me here! Overall though, it was fantastically perfecto! 
 Couldn't have done much better with the guitar... I like the "real" feel it has and the extra buttons 
 are a nice touch... If you have 4 people to play with, its worth to split the cost or jsut have 
 to play with them... $170 is really that much to you people who bought the $600 PS3 or $300-$400 
 Xbox 360? Im guessing probably not... Most who say that are jsut trying to have something to not 
 give it a perfect 10... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicNinja911
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  this is awesome game when i got it i knew it would be good but not this good first thought of this 
 game it is overkill from guitar hero but man was i proven wrong the only issue is that i know it 
 not very reliable my guitar is braking (when i stum down it double hits or does nothing or lags 
 so much it like you miss a note but you hit it on time) i think the game pretty cheap for how much 
 stuff you get. If you are reading this i would give it 9.3. If you want to compare to GH3 then 
 visuals go to rock band, gameplay go to rock band, difficulty go to GH 3, and Gh 3 as more songs 
 but rock band as more to do because once I beat the game with guitar i want to do it with drums 
 and then try to play hard on drums then expert i not going to do that with the singing but someone 
 will. I now have more song on rock band then guitar hero 3 because of downloadable songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: railszach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I approached this game as a bit of a skeptic, who would spend $160 on fake instruments? But after 
 the great fun I'd had with Guitar Hero I decided to give it a shot and I'm glad I did. Rock Band 
 is simply a gargantuan game. You can play each of the 58 songs with either a guitar, bass, drums, 
 or vocals. You can do these solo or mix and match to make potentially unlimited combinations. These 
 songs can be sent on 1 of 4 difficulty levels for each of the instruments as well. This fleshes 
 out the solo career extremely well and makes it one of the longest games in existence if you're 
 a completionist like myself. The real story is in creating your own band and going on a tour, this 
 is absolutely the pinnacle of excellence in this game. It will have you going for hours and you'll 
 want to replay it over and over again to tweak stuff. The track list is killer, with songs by great 
 artists such as weezer, nirvana, metallica, and other Gods of Rock, being in similiar class to 
 Guitar Hero 3. This game features head to head, co-op, and online play, rounded out by the promise 
 of downloadable content, as well as well balanced achievments. What exactly do you get in this 
 huge package? Nothing short of the best videogame guitar ever manufactured, a fancy microphone, 
 2 mic headset adapters, a USB hub, drum sticks, a drum set complete with kick drum and last but 
 not least the game itself. All in all Rock Band is worth the price of admission and will be a game 
 that you'll be playing for literally years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1SFGiantsFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I certainly hope that EA has made enough of the Rock Band Special Edition sets so that everyone 
 who wants one this holiday season can join the fun. We've only had the game for 2 days now and 
 I'm I find myself thinking about playing even when I'm not. Guitar Hero is still fun, but Rock 
 Band is much better.
  
  I'm not going to rave on about how awesome this kit is... just check out everyone else's reviews. 
 Here a few things that has kept me from going to a 10 in the ratings:
  
  The Playlist isn't all as impressive as the Guitar Hero games. There will be more content coming 
 (actually I think it's available now) on XBOX Live, but an additional 20 or so songs would have 
 been nice.
  
  In my opinion, The Songs are not as good as in Guitar Hero, so I'm hoping for some stellar downloadable 
 content.
  
  The only other thing that is a bit or an irritation is the drum set. Don't you think the set could 
 have been made so that every time you hit a drum, it wouldn't leave that "plastic" sound. This 
 is a small complaint because all we did was turn up the volume of the game to drown out the sound 
 of the drum kit.
  
  I've finally became part of a band at age 48. The best part is that I have my 20 year old son playing 
 and we're having a blast. 
  
  If you can find it, buy it and play it with your kids. This is something they won't mind doing 
 with you... even if you're older an suck like I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok let me say I have never played any of the Guitar Hero games. They have always been one of those 
 games Ive really wanted to try but just never have. So anyway my sons 12th birthday is in a few 
 days and we talked about this game and I asked him if he wanted it for his birthday to play on 
 my 360. He said yes and I just bought it .
  
  Anyway to make a long story short.... this thing is awesome if you have a couple other people to 
 play with. I have started on guitar, my 12 year old son on drums and my wife we actually drug in 
 to sing (Im still shocked) . After we did one song she was hooked. 
  
  My son keeps to the easy difficulty on drums and is generally in the 75-90% range on the songs 
 so he does good. Some songs are pretty hard for the drums though. Just when he thinks he has easy 
 down and he tries medium he is sent back to medium whimpering.
  
  Pretty much the same for me. On guitar I totally own on easy. 90+ nearly every song. On medium 
 its a mixed bag so far.... but again realize I never played GH games. Some mediums Im great on others 
 I limp into the finish line. 
  
  Everything was easy to setup. So far we have only been playing single songs and have not started 
 on the world tour thing... but just from the impression after playing about 10 solo songs this game 
 is amazing if you have a couple other people to play it with.
  
  Looking forward to trying the tour with the family. This is the first game I have gooten my wife 
 to play since the Genesis days.... so that says alot. She said she felt more comfortable singing 
 on this game because there is so much other noise going on and all that. 
  
  Anyway... not much else to say.... the game rocks. Nuff said.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woogi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The Gamespot review is pretty spot-on for this game so I don't really have too much to add. I do 
 want to give my 2 cents however.
  
  I want to predicate this review by stating that I was a drummer in a band in college that performed 
 a lot at bars and stuff so I feel that I have a good perspective of what its actually like to be 
 in a band and perform in front of a crowd.
  
  The Good: Almost all the songs are originals which is just flat out awesome. Not having to listen 
 to some of your favorite songs being butchered by a cover band is a very good thing. Except for 
 the occasional question mark song the song list is excellent. I kept coming across song after song 
 that I couldn't wait to play even though I knew the song list ahead of time. The addition of crowd 
 input is also cool. Its so subtle sometimes you may not even notice it, but for songs where the 
 audience would likely be joining in you can hear them singing along. A good example of this would 
 be Wanted Dead or Alive where you can hear people in the audience singing along with the band. 
 It adds a feel as if you're actually playing a live show. This is way cool and a smart addition.
 
  
  The visuals are stunning. The audience looks like actual people and the cartoonish elements typical 
 of the Guitar Hero series has been toned down considerably. During certain parts of a performance 
 the background will sometimes do a grainy black & white thing that you can easily mistaken for 
 a generic MTV video for the song. All this together results in a sweet presentation. On top of 
 that performance never slows regardless of what is going on and for a game that has as much going 
 on at one time as this one does, that is certainly impressive.
  
  For the most part all the other good stuff the Gamespot review talked about it accurate, so I'm 
 going to move on the the bad.
  
  The Bad: This game rocks regardless of its few drawbacks, but I do need to point them out. First, 
 the obvious bad stuff. Band tour should have been available on-line. That is a very unfortunate 
 aspect of this game. I have friends but its not like I live with roommates and am in college and 
 see them all the time at my house. It would have been nice to be able to start a band with people 
 on your Xbox Live friends list.
  
  Visually speaking there are 2 small issues. The hammer-ons and pull-offs aren't sufficiently set 
 apart from regular notes. Guitar Hero 3 did a great job making them stand out, even more so than 
 on Guitar Hero 2. In Rock Band they are simply smaller notes which is a pain to try and pick up 
 when you're trying to hit the sections with lots of runs. The other issue is distractions. When 
 you complete a set of star power notes the game board glows briefly which can make it hard to see 
 what is coming up. And at other times the background can get in the way of seeing what is coming 
 next. These are merely inconveniences, however, and do not affect the gameplay that much. It just 
 requires some getting used to.
  
  The last bad part I want to describe is with respect to the drums. As I stated already I was a 
 drummer in a band and have been playing the drums for almost 20 years so I have a couple of issues 
 with this part of the game. For starters, the instrument mapping is wrong. Anyone that plays the 
 drums knows that they use their right hand for the high hat and the left hand for the snare drum 
 (or vice versa if you're lefty) . The right hand crosses over the left hand to hit the high hat. 
 The drum kit maps the snare to the red pad (far left) and the high hat to the yellow pad (second 
 from left) . This results in the awkward position (for drummers) of playing a high hat and snare 
 with your hands parallel to each other, rather than crossed. Although not a big deal it certainly 
 doesn't help convey the feeling that you're actually playing a drum set. They should have allowed 
 you to remap the red and yellow pads for people used to playing a real set.
  
  Another issue with the drums is its ridiculously unforgiving nature. I would consider myself a 
 much better drummer than someone that just picked up the game and has never drummed before, but 
 the game gives me misses for things that in my mind are nowhere close to a miss. I think after 
 drumming for 20 years I've reached the point where I can hit a high hat and snare at the same time 
 or high hat and bass drum at the same time. Yet simply drumming a generic rock beat during the 
 songs results in random misses because, and I am only assuming here, that I didn't hit both pads 
 at the same time exactly, or hit the pad and bass drum exactly at the same time. I don't have an 
 HD tv so I know the issue is not latency or lag. All I can say is that the drums are too unforgiving 
 considering the fact that this is a game for people, many oh whom will be novices to drumming. 
 So I have to say it was somewhat of a let-down when it was saying I was missing basic notes of 
 a basic rock beat which in my eyes were spot on.
  
  Another issue with the drum kit is the loud noise they make. Having relatively legitimate drumsticks 
 is cool, but plastic on plastic is a recipe for loud annoying clicks. The pads should have been 
 made softer and the drum tips should have been given padded or rubber tips. The 'coolness' of using 
 real drumsticks wears off after you realize you have to blast the audio to overcome the annoying 
 clicking sounds.
  
  The last drum kit issue is its durability. Only time will tell on this one but I don't have complete 
 confidence that the pads will function after 100's of hours of being beaten on by a drum stick.
 
  
  All in all this game is truly awesome. Although it has a few shortcomings this is true of all games. 
 I will definitely be getting many many hours of entertainment from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allnyda
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a definate step up over Guitar Hero 3. With better looking characters, create your 
 own character/ band, and a much better song selection, Rock Band gives us more of what should be 
 expected after GH2. It is a bit pricy at $170 US, but for those of you who like to party with friends 
 it is easily worth it. Note: the drum set takes some getting used to, and a bit more coordination. 
 Although that may be due to the massive hours spent on Guitar Hero 2 and already Guitar Hero 3 
 as well. Nevertheless the drums will definately take some practice, and try to go easy on the foot 
 pedal some people have broken part of it from intense sessions.
  
  Here is the hardware breakdown. I definately favor the Les Paul guitar from GH3 over the Fender 
 used in RB. The strum bar is more reliable ( the Fender strumbar is frustrating at times it doesn't 
 seem to keep up with my playing) . Also the Les Paul is WIRELESS, which would have been a great 
 addition to the Fender model. (For $170 I'd rather not be attached to my 360, especially considering 
 I like to show off while playing) The only problem I have with the Les Paul model is the neck seems 
 to have a connection problem to the base of the guitar. You'll notice it can move a bit even after 
 locking it in. So it may not register fret buttons being pushed in when you lift the guitar for 
 a power up, or if you are just sitting on the couch playing. Although I really like how good the 
 Fender looks, the Les Paul is much more dependable.
  
  As far as the software is concerned, Rock Band wins hands down. I had my reservations because MTV 
 was involved and, let's face it, Guitar Hero freakin rocks! But after playing for about 9 hours 
 last night with a few friends Rock Band has won me over. I definately like creating my own Rockstar, 
 and the character design looks more appealing ( I hate the singer you get stuck with in GH3) . The 
 addition of drums and vocals is a very much appreciated step forward in the genre. Although the 
 singing portion isn't as good as Sing Star it won't let you down like Boogie on the Wii. I like 
 the added difficulty of learning a new instrument. I like the boss battles in GH3, but I was left 
 wanting more out of the game. Rock Band has a better song list than GH3 does and with 3 friends 
 RB is just great fun. I'll check out the solo career this weekend and see how it stacks up. So 
 far I am very pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenHounk911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game is AMAZING! It takes the whole "Guitar Hero" concept to a whole new level. Being able 
 to create your rocker persona for the world tour is cool. You can modify everything from the physical, 
 to the mood and type of rocker (goth, metal, etc) . 
  Tour mode is fun, with 4 people total, pick your instrument ot vocals and get on the road. Managing 
 the band is a cool feature. Trying to get new fans and more money with each venue is challenging. 
 Getting new things to travel on, from a van to a tour bus opens up new and bigger venues. Bust 
 a song and lose fans, buy new guitars, new gear, etc. It's really fun.
  2 player modes are fun as well. Tug o war mode is pretty frantic, with both player trying to get 
 the bar in their favor. Good stuff here.
  THe track list could leave hardcore fans wanting more, but Harmonix is really good at listening 
 to their fans. Through the magic of downloaodable content, many fans will get their musical wishes. 
 
  THe complete package is pretty pricey, but buying everything separate is even more expensive. Get 
 3 friends together and suddenly the price is cheaper splitting it 4 ways. Let each chose their 
 instrument so they can get better at what they do and there you go.
  Overall, a very fun party game, a blast to play! Highly recommended for music fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionthescorpio
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Guitar Hero ever since it first came out and have been looking forward to Rock 
 Band since I heard it was being made. I think the most prevalent thing that separates RB (Rock 
 Band) from GH (Guitar Hero) is the different instruments to play. Obviously this is a great selling 
 point for RB since most people who don't play an instrument have either played air guitar or air 
 drums at some point in life. How many people can say that they at least "drummed" the solo in Phil 
 Collin's "In the Air Tonight"? (At least some of the 30 and older people) Even though Phil is far 
 from a rocker of course. That being said I think the drums are what makes RB a great game. It is 
 a new peripheral to play with other than a guitar and playing them is a blast. One other thing 
 that I hope continues is the downloadable content. This can either make or break this game. Having 
 a steady flow of new content will only help this game and is something I hope GH will start doing 
 more of. One area of concern though about the game is the Guitar and Drums. The guitar feels good 
 but I am not a big fan of the strum button. I feel that it not as responsive and the GH guitars 
 and on some of the songs that requires some fast strumming I feel that I can't hit all the notes 
 due to this. The nice quick fix to this is if you already own a GH guitar, you can just use that. 
 I do like the switches and extra high frets, but they are more of a gimmick and have no real affect 
 on the overall gameplay experience. The drums for the money I think are ok. I do feel that I need 
 to be a little gentle with the bass pedal for fear of breaking it. Also the don't give me the full 
 feel of drums because they feel more "plastic" of course and give a "tick-tack" sound when being 
 played. I am hoping to fix this by adding some rubber tips to the tips of the drum-sticks to deaden 
 the "tack" sounds and give a little bounce back just like real drums. Overall, I think this is 
 a good game with lots of good content to come. I hope that they can bring in some good songs. The 
 Tour mode is cool and even the solo is good if you want to just play some songs. I don't consider 
 RB to be a direct competitor to GH but a different variant of the rhythm platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Apples
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  So many fun things to do, so little time. Rock Band crushes that "other" guitar game and provides 
 a truly awesome experience for everyone. 
  
  By yourself, the guitar, vocals, and drums are each challenging endeavors to master. In a group, 
 everyone is treated to a great cooperative experience, possibly the best co-op imaginable. Between 
 all the instruments, the ambition DLC track plans, online capabilities, and more, Rock Band delivers 
 a pretty amazing experience.
  
  Some will balk at it as a "GH ripoff," "overpriced," or "too easy." These are all short-sighted 
 half-truths. The game is well-built, polished, and clean. At worst, it's Guitar Hero plus awesome 
 new instruments. Although that summary is selling it far short.
  
  In closing, anyone with rock in their soul will enjoy Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: containment13
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Rock band is a great game that beats all the competition. You just can not beat great multiplayer, 
 downloadable content, and an amazing variety of instruments!!!! Rock Band is solid, and will continually 
 get better as time goes on. I can not wait to see this game as it progresses. The song library 
 will be huge and the possibilities will be endless! I hope that it will stay as fun as it is now 
 as time goes on . This is a very, very, very, very amazing game that the possibilities are endless 
 in. I love this game and will always have it in my memory for a very, very, very, very, very long time!!!!!!!! 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamBenG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  You will start this game going "well, its not... that hard" But as you go, it gets harder, drastically 
 as you change difficulty levels. Some songs will really mess you up, but it is insanely addicting. 
 World Tour with friends is wonderful, and makes for a great group/part game.
  
  Its graphics look very nice, images that look like the real guitar rifts and crazy (yet somewhat 
 stupid) poses and such during songs.
  
  With a character customization that makes you look and feel like a rock/punk/metal or whatever 
 star!
  
  A decent set list with popular songs and if you know music very well, you will probably have some 
 idea what it is.
  
  A few little fun things, at some times on drums you can just hit whatever you want and get points, 
 and same with guitar. And when doing vocals there are times when u can say whatever you want and 
 you can hear it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAPTURESPLICER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  The game is very addicting. The game was worth the wait. The guitar gameplay is very similar to 
 that of Guitar Hero. However, th drum set addition is really unique and will have you pounding 
 away for hours. The game seems to be intended for a multiplayer experience which allows you to 
 enjoy the action with friends. Gamers can also tour the world in solo mode and play which ever 
 instrument they desire. Gamers can choose to play the drums, the guitar, the bass, or sing along 
 with the microphone. Rock band is a well-rounded game that will only get better in the future with 
 all of the downloadable content that will be available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anubis311
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I didn't like the guitar that came with it. It feels pretty cheap and clunky, but the drum kit 
 and microphone are stellar. I just use the guitars from GH2/3 and I'm not missing out on anything. 
 
  
  Starting out fresh in multiplayer is a bad Idea because you run out of songs quick. Otherwise the 
 game is excellent. Drums rule, singing is fun -- they actually makes the guitar kinda dull :P
  
  more words? more words! more words! more words! more words! more words! more words! more words! 
 more words! more words! more words! more words! more words! more words! more words! more words! 
 more words! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoucTheGoose
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band gives a great balance of realism and fun. though hardcore musicians will laugh at the 
 simplicity of the guitar layout, they will never turn down playing it. The drums on expert gives 
 you the most realism compared to the guitar and bass. the world tour gives you a new fantastic 
 way to have fun with friends and progres on a pretty well paced tour. If you have a guitar from 
 previous guitar hero games i would pick this game up on the ability to play a co-op world tour 
 with another friend. But to be honest the only reason not to buy this is if you already own it. 
 it is the best balanced game of the genre and a step forward in video games. in eight months when 
 i finally move on to another game i'll be waiting for rock band 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tampaactor9
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The Game: Rock Band (360)
  
  The Introduction: I've been playing Rythym Games since DDR. Started on the controller, then worked 
 my way to the pad. Years later I discovered and fell in love with the cult hit "Guitar Hero". That 
 day set in motion the events that would lead to today, the release of "Rock Band". I picked the 
 game up this morning bright and early, plugged it in, and haven't looked back.
  
  The Gear: All of the equipment is very high quality. I've heard complaints about the guitar, but 
 honestly I think it's just that it's "different" and people don't like different. People have their 
 comfort zone and don't like leaving it. Well, in my opinion, Rock Band was designed for the people 
 who aren't afraid of leaving the tedium of the comfort zone, risking it all for a good time. So 
 try out the guitar, let it grow on you a little. You'll get used to it, trust me. And be thankful 
 that it's not as awkward and uncomfortable as the X-plorer. The drums are sturdy and yet also light 
 enough and small enough to be easy to put away or stash in a corner. They've taken quite the beating 
 today and they perform wonderfully. The mic is... well, it's a mic. Although I'm not sure exactly 
 how a microphone's inner workings work, but it IS very interesting how it can pick up everything 
 about your singing. Overall it's a good package... takes about 15-20 minutes to set up and get 
 going. The only complaint I have is that the directional pad on the drums feels a little rough 
 around the edges, sometimes you really have to lean on it to get any response.
  
  The Gameplay: Lets face it, there's no other way of putting this differently: It's Guitar Hero 
 with a fancy new coat of paint and lots and lots of elbow grease. One thing that does shine is 
 the attention to detail... Harmonix has put together a very quality game that "feels" complete. 
 It's also very obvious that the developers have a passion for what they do, because they have captured 
 the very essence of being in a band... the joy that comes from making music... and they have done 
 it in a very professional, polished, and entertaining way. You find yourself just smiling, like 
 a kid in a toystore, giddy with butterflies in your stomach just from playing. The key differences 
 between Guitar Hero and Rockband are as follows: DEEP character customization (this is what will 
 keep you coming back for more, trust me) , a sense of unity with the other bandmembers, of course 
 the other instruments (guitar hero + drum hero + karaoke revolution = win) , and of course the band 
 world tour. No longer is the game a simple setlist that you must "work through". No, Rock Band 
 is an experience. You have your character and your band and you have a personal attachment to them. 
 You care about their progress as they go from garage hero's to rock gods. And you are there with 
 them every step of the way. You make the band decisions... and you play for money, you play for 
 the fans, and you play for the adrenaline rush that can only come from rocking out with your best 
 friends all playing the songs you love. This is, in the words of Wayne Campbell, "Party time! Excellent! 
 Woowoowoowoowoo!"
  
  The Score: 10/10. Awesome. A good time. What gaming is about.
  
  The improvements: This is where I put things that I think could make the game better, but do NOT 
 detract from the overall quality and workmanship of the game. 
  
  1. Hammer-ons. This is the only thing that I think GH3 did better than RB... GH3 did a really good 
 job of making hammer-ons easy to see. Although RB's are easier to pick out than GH1 and GH2's, 
 if you are trying to sight read a song it can be a pain to pick them out. This is something that 
 could hypothetically be fixed in a patch. Do I think it will? Probably not, but wishful thinking 
 eh?
  
  2. Single-player/online Band World Tour (BWT) mode. First of all, Harmonix completely nixxed Single 
 player BWT... I guess because you're not really in a "band" and it would open up too many doors 
 for abuse. Secondly, online BWT was something that was worked on and announced, then un-announced, 
 and then they said it would be patched in... so lets hope that still happens (although recent reports 
 lean towards a "no" and that they are going to use it in the eventual Rock Band 2)
  
  That's all folks. Good luck with your band and ROCK ON!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: senorpablo24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Rock Band has quickly become my favorite game of this past year. Leading up to today I couldn't 
 put assassians creed down. Now i find myself struggling to even considering playing it again. Rock 
 Band sucked me in from the get go. The drums are incredibly, guitar just gives you a better "guitar-player" 
 feel if that makes any sense. and the microphone just gives you a hell of a lot of fun.
  
  The game does have a few issues starting with the graphics, occasionly the character design in 
 movment, and color scheme interfers when I'm trying to focus on hitting the notes for my instrument 
 and I find myself to be distracted by that, but I've gotten use to it. Sometimes I'll be in the 
 midst of a multiplyer and i'll hit the side of the drum so the beat wont register, thought i've 
 learned to not hit the side as many times it can be annoying. The mic takes a lot of adjustment 
 getting use to becuase it hards to adjust your voice for the right note for the song. Besides that 
 you can't really complain much about the game and those are small little things that hardly take 
 away from the game at all.
  
  The game is amazing in every aspect of a party, rhtyhm, music, or whatever you want to classify 
 it as. The Drums are great (although sometimes you can't hear the music cuase of the pounding of 
 the drums but just you know turn your volume up) . The pedal takes a little to get use to and can 
 be tiring if you dont use it properly. But the overall feel of the drums is excellent, and the 
 way they play are great. 
  
  The guitar is great, the only complaint i have is its hard to adjust to the bottom frets, but that 
 just takes some practice to get use to. It has the looks and feel of an actaul guitar, you can 
 hardly hear clicking the fret buttons or strumming, or hitting hte wammy bar its great. So far 
 the actaully playing of hte guitar has been good, it hasn't been impossilby difficult but its been 
 alright.
  
  The Mic is one of the instruments I thought I would never use, but to my surprise its actaully 
 somethign I've used a lot. The way they made the mic work is great, between the pitches of the 
 song and the multiplers. It can be a lot of fun to just start yelling out random crap in the middle 
 of the song and hear youreslf. 
  
  The song list I am impressed with, it has a lot of songs I am familiar with, and I think most peopl 
 are familiar with, and there all good songs to really play on any of the three insturments. Although 
 there are a few songs here and there that i could do without or want in its obvioulsy going ot 
 vary between everyone and we can now purchase songs online so I cant complain much about that. 
 The Song list can only get better if you're willing to spend a little. But as it stands it is a 
 pretty solid list
  
  The game is great on multipler its just a lot of fun to play with friends as if you were an actaully 
 band. And I haven't even tried online yet I can only imagine how much better this game will get. 
 Rock Band is a must have game if you enjoy music at all, and games even in the tinest bit. 
  
  Oh and is it worth $170? I'd said I don't regret a single penny out of that. It may be one 
 of the only games that can keep you satifised for years and years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technopirate
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  That question is debatable. If you are a hardcore guitar hero fan you obviously aren't going to 
 shell out 170 dollars for this, but if you're like me and thought that the franchise went a little 
 too hard core for you then you should enjoy Rock Band.
  Like it's Guitar Hero counterparts this is a musically based rhythm based game, unlike the former 
 however Rock Band introduces drums and vocals to the mix of music that definetly set it apart. 
 Also, the songs available in Rock Band are alot more appealing to a wider audience. From bands 
 like Okay Go to Rush, Rock Band is not pigeon holing itself to a specific genre kindof like Guitar 
 hero is doing by offering more heavy metal and hard rock songs than anything else.
  I've only been playing the game for a couple of hours but I'm already addicted, the game play is 
 very fun. It's also a blast to try your skill at the different instruments. The drums, guitar/bass 
 are very responsive, and though the microphone is fun for tambourine and cowbell, many people will 
 be finding the scoring on the vocal end to be very punishing. EA is using the Karaoke Revolution 
 Engine for the vocal aspect of the game so you must sing exactly on key with no alteration from 
 the master or cover tracks of the songs or you won't score very high.
  The online play aspect of the game is very fun. Who's best at what is going to be the hardest thing 
 about the online play. The clear winner is anybody at bass. The hardest I would say is drums just 
 because it really takes some getting used to. Guitar obviously if you've played any guitar hero 
 game is going to be fine.
  All in all if you're looking for a guitar hero substitute or are looking to do alot of multiplayer 
 or have a good party game, Rock Band will be more than enough. While it's not as unforgiving as 
 Guitar Hero, it still is challenging enough to give you something to shoot for and while the game 
 is definitely worth a buy it is a very steep price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  
  First off, I'd like to say that I'm a huge Guitar Hero fan, and i've played every one in the series. 
 I had my fair share of doubts about Rock Band. To be completely honest, all of my doubts have been 
 disproven.
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  
  Things that annoyed me about Rock Band
  (keep in mind, there are very few)
  
  1. The presentation 
 takes some getting used to, especially for Guitar Hero players. The characters look odd, and it 
 seems like the "camera" is out of focus at times. An odd blur effect, perhaps. However, once you're 
 able to customize your character to your liking, you'll really appreciate the differences.
  
  2. It's not as easy to hit the beats as Guitar Hero. This will start as an annoyance, but quickly 
 become a great value to the game for most players, since it feels like there are actually fewer 
 notes on screen than GH.
  
  3. The mic is confusing to get working at first, but once you figure it out, you won't have problems 
 with it again. Basically, you have to plug in a controller (not an instrument) before you turn 
 on the game. You use the controller to navigate the screen, and then you pick up the mic to play.
 
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------
  
  What I really love about Rock Band-
  
  1. Customization! Your hard earned money can be spent 
 on tons of accessories/ clothes for your character that you create. Money can also be used to buy 
 other things, such as instruments.
  
  2. The songs sound great. REALLY great. There's a sound quality here that Guitar Hero just didn't 
 have. Also, some of the songs on GH that were redone by unknown bands are now on Rock Band by the 
 original artists. Not all of them, but quite a few. 
  
  3. Downloadable content. Despite the fact that the songs that were released this week should've 
 just came with the game, you can't deny that Rock Band has a slew of great songs coming out over 
 the next month to lengthen your rocking experience. These songs are available through career even, 
 where as in GH they were just quickplays.
  
  4. The instruments work perfectly. I am not a guitarist, drummer, or singer in real life, and I 
 had no intention of using the drums or mic in my group of friends. However, after giving them a 
 try, I found that no instrument is less fun than another one. Drums are challenging, and mic is 
 probably the easiest, but both are just plain fun.
  
  5. Easily the greatest tracklist i've seen in a music & rhythm game.
  
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall-
  
  Guitar Hero fans should've waited for this gem. It has the full rock band experience, and is the 
 closest thing you can get to playing a real instrument without actually doing it. Every aspect 
 of the game screams expert craftsmanship. 
  
  If you don't have Rock Band, go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I got home from EB Games, I excitedly opened the packaging to Rock Band. After a brief 
 setup, I hopped on LIVE. I was then flooded with messages reading something like "dude, is it seriously 
 worth $170?" So, this review will attempt to answer that very question- is Rock Band worth your 
 money?
  
  Good- Setup is a breeze. The drums take 5 minutes or less to set up and the USB hub needs to be 
 plugged into a power outlet. Then it's time to start rocking. The Equipment. I am a drummer, so 
 I was concerned about how solid the drums would be. I am happy to report that the drums are absolutely 
 stellar. The pads feel very responsive and the framework is comprised of sturdy plastic and metal. 
 The microphone is also very well done and I have no complaints with it. The guitar is going to 
 polarize lots of people. The strum bar makes no noise and does not click to register a strum. The 
 frets are larger, but much less distinct. After playing Guitar Hero III just yesterday for a few 
 hours, I can tell you that personally it was not that hard to adjust. I really enjoy the new guitar 
 because it feels much less like a toy and much more like a real guitar. The clicking noise on the 
 GH hardware irritated me like nothing else, so I could not be more thankful for the new guitar. 
 I am able to play on expert difficulty and hit most of the notes with the new guitar, so it does 
 not hinder or help my existing skills. My friend on the other hand, something of a guitar god on 
 GH, was extremely frustrated by the new guitar. After about 2 songs, he asked to use my GHIII guitar. 
 I do believe that your mileage will vary with the new guitar, but I encourage you to give it a 
 good college try- you make like it much better than the GHIII controller (or GHII controller for 
 that matter) . Difficulty is fair. This game is meant for social situations and it succeeds admirably 
 in being balanced and fun for people of all skill levels. The Band experience. I have had people 
 in and out of my apartment all day playing Rock Band, and having all 4 parts playing together is 
 truly one of the best experiences in gaming. Do not doubt for 1 minute that this is going to be 
 the party game of the decade. Music. The tracks are all original, so they sound superb. I really 
 find the drum parts to be outstanding in particular. Online. Xbox LIVE band experience is impeccable. 
 You pick your own instrument and then LIVE matches you with 3 other people to form a complete band 
 and you are rocking in no time. The matches I played in were lag-free; whatever voodoo Harmonix 
 worked into their game to make it like this is incredible.
  
  Bad- Not a single complaint so far. I have played over 10 hours already and could not be more pleased.
 
  
  Verdict- YES this game is worth $170. It might be the best money I've ever spent. Not only does 
 it feature 3 complete world tours for vocals, drums, and guitar (i. e 3 different games packed into 
 1) , but stellar multiplayer, both online and off. With ridiculous amounts of already announced 
 DLC, this game is surely going to have enormous replay value. If you remotely like rhythm games, 
 rock music, or getting your (girl) friends to play games with you, look no further than Rock Band.
 
  
  Rock On. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyet00th
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Maybe I hyped myself up too much for the release of this game. I got to the mall as soon as it 
 opened, rushed home to hook it up, played for 3 songs, and decided to take a break. It's a pretty 
 fun game; it's just not what I thought it would be. I have yet to play multiplayer, and then I 
 imagine there will be a lot more fun, but single player just isnt that great. Unless your sound 
 system is really loud, the clacks of the guitar and the whacks on the drum pads can be louder than 
 the music. 
  I thought I'd be glued to this game for days on end, but I'm actually a bit bored with it already. 
 I may edit this review after playing multiplayer with my friends...
  
  Ok... played some multiplayer. It's hard to navigate the onlne menu, and the voice chat hasn't worked 
 at all, but it's a lot more fun than the single player mode. I would love to hear vocals broadcast 
 online, and it's too bad you can only do 'quick play' on Xbox Live. Doesn't give you much reason 
 to stay on for more than a few songs. Local Multiplayer is the most fun, but you need some serious 
 time investment from your friends to unlock the hot songs. This isn't so easy if you have a family 
 and full time job... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
