-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rock Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/rockrevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Compatible with instruments from other games.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Includes just over 30 songs, all of which are covers.
 Career mode is boring.
 Even the most basic aspects of gameplay are lousy.
 Brings nothing new to an already crowded genre.
 Drum kit is awful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 4.2, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 2.5, 223 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Zoe Mode
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Oct 15, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You say you want a revolution? Be careful what you ask for. 

  Thanks to its Bemani series of games, Konami was  the  name in rhythm and music games for many 
 years, especially in Japan. These games include: Dance Dance Revolution, Karaoke Revolution, Guitar 
 Freaks, Drummania, and Beatmania. But times have changed; the genre is now dominated by SingStar, 
 Guitar Hero, and Rock Band. Not content to sit on the sidelines and watch, Konami's response is 
 Rock Revolution. It's too bad that the game, which lets you play guitar, bass, or drums (but not 
 sing) , doesn't rock and certainly isn't a revolution.  

           There's a singer onstage, but the game doesn't let you sing.      

  Rock Revolution 
 can be purchased with a drum kit or as a stand-alone game -- there are no game-specific guitars available. 
 Fortunately, it's compatible with both Guitar Hero and Rock Band hardware. This is good because 
 not only are you able to use peripherals you probably already own, but also because the included 
 drum kit, which has six pads and a foot pedal, is lousy. The pads are small and loud, plus the 
 ones in the back are only slightly angled and raised so they're difficult to hit. And, really, 
 having seven inputs is too much for people without bona fide drumming skills. It seems that Konami 
 realized this because you'll go entire songs using just four pads (and sometimes not even touching 
 the pedal for songs at a time) until you get to the hard difficulty setting.  

  Questionable drums are the least of Rock Revolutions problems, though. The soundtrack includes 
 just over 30 songs -- a paltry number when compared to the 80 or so songs in both Guitar Hero World 
 Tour and Rock Band 2. There are tunes from Metallica, Foo Fighters, Ratt, The Ramones, Fall Out 
 Boy, Twisted Sister, Avril Lavigne, and more. This wouldn't be a bad list if not for the fact that 
 all of the songs are covers. Some of them are decent, but the competition uses nothing but master 
 tracks these days, so this ends up being just another way in which Rock Revolution fails to measure 
 up.  

  Substandard gameplay and an underwhelming Career mode compound Rock Revolution's issues. The Career 
 mode is nothing more than playing a list of songs; there's no way to embark on a career as anything 
 other than a solo act, no character customization, and nobody is playing the paltry online modes. 
 The game can't even get the genre's established gameplay down right. The note highway that displays 
 upcoming notes is vertical and displayed on a 2D plane. As a result, it only shows a few notes 
 at a time, which makes fast sections very difficult because you can't anticipate what's coming 
 next. This problem is further exacerbated by an unusually small window in which to play the correct 
 note, questionable note recognition, note patterns that don't match the music, and stringent requirements 
 for passing songs. Not only is it easy to fail the average song, but frequent additional requirements, 
 such as not playing "poison" notes, achieving a certain score, or passing a song despite the difficulty 
 increasing midtune, also conspire to block your rock.  

           The music studio is kind of fun, but it's not enough to warrant buying the game.      
 

  Rock Revolution's one redeeming mode lets you create your own music by first choosing a style or 
 sound for your instrument and then mapping chords, riffs, or beats to the frets or drum pads. It's 
 highly unlikely you're going to make any sort of masterpiece with the limited tools available; 
 you can't add your created works to the game's set list or share them online, but it is mildly 
 amusing to see what you and a few friends can come up with by mashing fret buttons and banging 
 on the drums.  

  If Rock Revolution came out two or three years ago, it might have been revolutionary, but in 2008, 
 it's not even relevant. Uninspired presentation, a tiny tracklist that includes no master tracks, 
 a complete lack of vocal support, uninteresting gameplay, and a barebones Career mode are just 
 a few of the many ways in with Rock Revolution fails. In fact, it fails to live up to its name, 
 Konami's past, and, most importantly, the competition.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: xbox360555
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I loved playing rock games. Like rockband, and guitar hero. Easter was coming up, I asked for guitar 
 hero metallica and rock revolution. [i got both] This game has some wierd yet a little cool, Highway. 
 You cant see the notes ahead of time, so you might fail quickly. The career mode uses this guitar 
 hero world tour career. So they ripped that off, And its a little boring. This game has a nice 
 setlist........ if only they werent covers. The really good thing is the music studio. You'll probally 
 be in that mode forhours and hours and hours....... and hours! Another one is on a solo you could 
 jam out any notes you want! Go Crazy!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  But thats the really good things. [thats why i bought it.] Although this game has its moments. 
 People might be disappointed. But rent it to be sure you want it. [still fun!] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayer19888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  best game in the genre so far. way better than rock band and guitar hero. the graphics are way 
 better than guitar hero and rock band and your busy hitting notes your not looking at the graphics 
 anyway. and music is great. linkin park, metallica, lacuna coil, jet. its got a bunch of challenging 
 songs to play. i can beat guitar hero and rock band on expert but this game is so challenging i 
 cant beat some on expert or hard. thats another thing i love about this game. and challenges are 
 awsome. poison note, band practice, crank it up, its all awsome to play every now and then. the 
 notes are harder to hit on this game and hammer ons and pull off notes are to small to see sometimes. 
 thats why i gave it a 9.5. i didn't like the way they done the hammer ons and pull offs. for $20 
 its a great deal. better than paying $60 or even $40 for a guitar hero or rock band game. so much 
 a better deal. and better songs. the career is even better. where you do an album and then unlock 
 a venue. i love the solo mode during the concert portion of the game. making up your own solo is 
 a great feature on this game. and then theres a recording studio where you make your own music. 
 very addictive and worth getting. ive only had it about 3 days so i only got but little hours on 
 it. difficulty is just right and more challenging than guitar hero and rock band is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJHeartAttack
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 3, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  Rock revolution is Konami's attempt to break into the rock music game genre and they'd better have 
 a Plan B because Plan A just sunk. 
  
  Pro: Lots of songs by great artists unknown by the mainstream such as Breaking Benjamin, Killswitch 
 Engage, Lacuna Coil, and Finger Eleven.
  
  Con: EVERYTHING ELSE!
  - Crappy drum set.
 
  - Most songs are subpar covers.
  - No singing mode
  - Crappy note highway
  
  To sum it all up, this was probably the 
 1st Guitar Hero's prototype. As a side note, you can download a game almost exactly like this (minus 
 the 3D band) for FREE on your PC. Search Guitar Hero Clone and you should find it for free on quite 
 a few sites. That's all I have to say, see ya later.
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylewpg
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay.
  Ok the game isnt really that fun well it is when you play the songs you like. a very lame soundtrack 
 with only very few songs i like. The game isnt long ... theres not really a point to the main game.. all 
 the songs are unlocked when you start the game.. The drum gameplay is hard to if you play this you 
 will know why.
  
  Sound.
  Crappy soundtrack with some good songs that should be in guitar hero and rockband. All the songs 
 are covers...... yeah covers.
  
  Graphics.
  The game looks ok the animations tho look stiff and the crowds look really bad. The game looks lifeless. 
 and just isnt all that good. The 2D fret board hurts the eyes.
  
  Get this game if you can find it for like 5 or 10 bucks. its not worth paying full price... some 
 songs are good others are crappy. The game is way to easy. Its just a rockband .. copy that isnt good 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otanikun
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 15, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time there was a little known game called Guitar Freaks that was a Japan only arcade 
 release, a game that came before Guitar Hero and Rock Band, that played mostly Japanese pop songs 
 and the like.
  This game was released by Konami, similar in gameplay to DDR but used a then revolutionary application 
 of a Guitar shaped gamepad to play.
  
  A long time later Guitar Hero comes out and is hailed as the single greatest music playing game 
 of all time, and the subsequent releases thereafter, to which Rock Band also achieved this feat 
 with it's multitude of downloadable content.
  
  And then after achieving the game and fortune these games brought with them, Konami actively sought 
 out to recapture it's glory in the music game genre by attempting to release Rock Revolution, a 
 game that's supposed to be similar to their Guitar Freaks, but no where near the same.
  Once released, or rather before it's release, this game was met with mixed results from the get 
 go, it's an abomination upon the music world for a mirth of reasons.
  
  1. The concept was already in Japan before the now recognized Guitar Hero and Rock Band came out, 
 yet they never released Guitar Freaks in the states
  
  2. All of the songs are pure covers of famous songs in the states, and nothing from Japan
  
 
  3. The drum kit provided is just terrible, the way the pads are organized, it's like a lousy electronic 
 drum kit made by a third rate company.
  
  4. The characters, though they may look decent, lack good customization
  
  5. The game doesn't 
 support any vocals at all, not that it would save the game anyway
  
  Quite frankly I'm ashamed that Konami would release such a terrible game and not the original Guitar 
 Freaks that has made Guitar Hero and Rock Band famous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is okay, im going to start off with that.
  The songs are all covers, yes, but some are okay to listen to.
  
  The three main aspects of 
 this game are the Gameplay, the Guitar and Drums.
  
  Gameplay-
  The 2D fret scrolling is a pain at first. Youre all use to the way Rock Band and Guitar Hero gives 
 you that 3D angle play, and then when you play this, you go crazy for a second. But after like 
 3 or 4 songs you should be getting use to it (if your playing guitar) , and you should be doing 
 fine. The HUD is hard to look at because youre playing screen is all the way to the left and the 
 score and atmosphere bar is all the way to the right, and if your looking at that often, that can 
 screw up your combo alot. The career I think is pointless, but the fun thing about it is the challenges, 
 like the Poison Note Challenges where you cant hit the notes with the black inside them which can 
 sometimes get very tricky. The challenges and gigs in the career is somewhat why i gave this game 
 such a good score compared to the 1's and 2's other people give this game. The gig allows you to 
 play multiple songs back to back, and lets you keep your note streak (combo) , score, and atmosphere 
 bar and star power from your last performance and thats really cool. The other modes like Music 
 studio is only okay. Sure you can make your own music, but it dosent let you go that far into it 
 and only few different sounds for your instruments. The only main problem about the gameplay is 
 that the covers can sometimes be trashy and the pull offs and hammer ons are hard to notice and 
 do because of the 2D scrolling, and the 2D scrolling makes it harder on Expert to concentrate because 
 it goes pretty fast. And the setlist has many songs from RB, GH, and RB2.
  
  The Guitar-
  The guitar part of this game i thought was like any other music game out there. The buttons and 
 frets are the same as the other music games, because it dosent have a new guitar. Its good because 
 the RB and GH guitars both work. The Pull Offs and Pull Ons are okay sometimes to use on songs, 
 but i prefer in this game to also strum when it is pulling on or off just to be safe. I was impressed 
 with the guitar for this game.
  
  The Drums-
  This is the downfall of Rock Revolution. Why did they have to complicate the drums so much? Why 
 make the drums first start off with 7 pads when the RB (which mostly everyone uses) only have 5? 
 
  Yes you can fix that problem on the options, but many people dont know that. To make the 7 pad 
 problem worse, why put the drum peddle in the middle instead of a bar like rock band? thats what 
 makes the drums almost inplayable. With the drum peddle like that, its hard to keep track and easy 
 way to fail. The drum cover is stupidly made too, and dosent really make it any good. The drums 
 are deffinatly not a fun thing to use in Rock Revolution.
  
  If you have read any of my previous reviews for other games, you of course know im very concerned 
 about achievements, and this is the part for those achievement hunters. The Note Streak Achievements 
 are easy, espically when you are doing gigs, and you get about 70 for getting to 999 note streak. 
 If you are good at expert guitar you get 150 for beating career, beating career on expert, and 
 then completing all the songs. Then there are alot of 
  ones for the studio and rehersal, which can be easily done by just playing through the studio and 
 messing around. If you do most of the Rock Revolutions challenges, you will got about 400 out of 
 this game. Though the online achievements are frustrating, because you can never find anyone because 
 most people dont play this game because they find it trash, so good luck trying to get those unless 
 you have a friend on your friends list who also has this game and will agree to losing a couple 
 of 50 times to get yourself about 200-300 points.
  
  This game overall is another music game, with some giant flaws, but some good aspects that should 
 be looked upon well in this game. Rock Revolution is the child of RB and GH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Konami was once the king of music games. This was back when Guitar Hero and Rock Band were nonexistent. 
 Now, it's a war between Harmonix and Neversoft. For some odd reason Konami thought they could jump 
 right back in and become a worthy competitor. They basically invented the whole guitar/drum rhythm 
 game anyway so what could go wrong? The answer is a lot. 
  
  Obviously Rock Revolution does not have a good enough reputation in the music world to get Master 
 Tracks, which leads to the games biggest issue. The soundtrack. There are plenty of great songs 
 here, but they're all covers (except two) . While the covers could at least TRY to live up to Guitar 
 Hero 2 standards... they don't. You have a few good ones, like Spoonman, Sk8r Boi, and Am I Evil. 
 Here's how I'll break it down though, 25% are good 25% average and 50% are deafening. A few examples 
 are Walk, Run To The Hills, and the worst of them all... Chop Suey. I really think if Konami went 
 for less mainstream songs, this would be a better game.
  
  The game has a few other flaws. One of the most noticeable ones is how the notes come at you. Instead 
 of moving towards you, they scroll down own a 2D note track. On easier difficulties, it's not terrible, 
 but on harder songs with vicious solos, it gets a little annoying, but honestly it's not as annoying 
 as a lot have been saying and you'll get used to it if you play enough.
  
  On to the charts, the charts aren't terrible, some, especially the later ones are pretty fun to 
 play. Sadly, some feel oddly charted. There are a lot of songs with wayyy too many chords. But, 
 they charts aren't terrible. I've seen worse in music games. Some are actually fun to play. I really 
 enjoyed All The Small Things and Run To The Hills as well.
  
  The graphics on the game are solid. The character models look very nice, if only the animation 
 was as good. Your characters look a bit lifeless up on stage, but that's a small complaint as opposed 
 to the much larger issues.
  
  Overall, the covers are pretty awful, and there are a lot of other flaws holding this bad from 
 music fame. It's not unplayable though, some of the charts are fun and the music creation mode 
 (which I sort of had to leave out of my review) is somewhat entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: n4m3l335
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning, there was DDR. It brought forth from its arcade confines a slew of home console 
 spinoffs. Eventually, a group of developers from a small company saw that music games were ripe 
 for some good music, like rock and metal. Thus Guitar Hero was born. From this game came more sequels 
 and spinoffs, like Rock The 80's, On Tour, and a load of horrible toys. Rock Band came after the 
 original company left for EA. Now that the success formula of guitar, bass, drums, and mics have 
 proven to work, it looks like Konami, DDR creator, is grabbing for the gold ring. And failling 
 epically. The fact that the tracks (only 41) are covers is one bullet to the spleen of the game. 
 The HOPOs are completely nonexistent, the note charts are off, and there are virtually NO matches 
 online. Save your money, get Rock Band 2 or Guitar Hero World Tour. They are much more value and 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeEatBrain
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  While I was driving home with a copy of this game, I was already reviewing it. "Not as bad as I 
 thought."I feel bad for this game, if it were released 2 years ago, it might have been the biggest 
 thing in rythym games now." things like that. The game proved me wrong. There is nothing revolutionary 
 about Rock "Revolution". If you're going to put out a band game at this point in time there are 
 a few things it MUST have. RR has NONE of them. Game opens, you choose a character. from a list 
 of like 8. There's strike one. There's only 40 songs, all of them covers. And not good covers, 
 horrible covers. You know when you were playing GH2 and you're like "most of these covers aren't 
 bad"? Well, you won't be saying that during this game. EVERY song sounds bad. Every one. Steerike 
 2. The chart is squished at the side, the notes are tiny and hard to see even when the screen isn't 
 going whacko and literally changing to the colors of the notes you're supposed to be playing. Strike 
 3. Strike 4 comes from the drums. If there's an option to change settings so you can use the Rock 
 Band drums (like you're supposed to be able to) , I can't find it. And the drums are impossible 
 without being able to do that. You can't even hit the "overdrive" without the use of one of the 
 pads that isn't on the RB set. Plus the little bass pedal indicator in the middle makes it very 
 hard to play. I'm not even going to mention the glitches that I noticed while playing. Well, I 
 mentioned them, but you aren't getting a long explination. Let's just say sometimes the characters 
 on the screen twitch like they're in a tool video. 
  
  So if you're like me and you're friends with a GameStop employee who lets you sign this game out, 
 don't even do it then. Put RB2 back in your 360 and be glad that someone warned you. I usually 
 advocate giving games at least a fighting chance, but this game has done nothing to earn that right. 
 Leave it on the shelf.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cthulad
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Played the game last night with 3 friends for about 2 hours. Now Maybe I'm biased because I have 
 played, and really enjoyed RockBand, and RockBand 2, also Guitar Hero, these are games that have 
 a fun factor. They just feel right with the notes you have to hit coming at you from about a 35 
 degree angle. They also provide a little leeway to hit the notes.
  
  Now after playing practically through the game in 2 hours (at least all the songs I really wanted 
 to play) it left me wanting a whole lot more. Really 40 songs in total? Only 3 players for co-op 
 play. One thing I found that could be good if you never have played a rhythm game before then this 
 would be the one to try (if it was $20) for the beginner, and easy settings it really starts you 
 off easy. I never actually tried beginner, but easy was 3 notes (standard) for the guitar, and 
 it seems that you really only needed to make one forth of the notes that someone on medium would 
 be playing. This made the game way too easy, and yet you still miss notes if you are not in perfect 
 harmony pressing the button with the dot on the screen.
  
  Now visually I don't complain about many games, however with this one I have a huge complaint. 
 Why is the concert you are playing have to be so bleeding bright. Most of the time when you are 
 missing notes it is because you are not able to see what you are supposed to hit. I found the blue 
 button was awash most of the time with the background. The compatibility with all of the instruments 
 is a really nice touch, but they want you to get a 7 drum set (the one that will come as a peripheral) 
 and that would really make this game a drum sim. 
  
  Creating your own songs may be a nice touch I didn't have much time with that, but then it's not 
 my cup of tea. I would rather have someone make a song, and then allow me to download it instead. 
 The one other thing I found is that almost every song for the game has been licensed for the other 
 2 games RockBand or Guitar Hero, and they don't even sound as good. I missed that part also. 5.1 
 surround sound setup for the system, and the music does not sound anywhere as good as it does on 
 all of the other games. Even the sound seemed to be washed out, and dull.
  
  No matter how much I love Chop Suey or a few of the other songs on there, it can not redeem a completely 
 below average game. I would not recommend this to anyone unless they are going to make their own 
 music. However seeing that Guitar Hero World tour has that functionality, and it looks better, 
 and easier to do, this would only be for the collector of all rhythm games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
