-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/tabletennis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Spins standard tennis gameplay into something faster and more visceral.
 Absolutely amazing-looking player models.
 Awesome crowd sounds and sound effects.
 Unlockable achievements well-designed to push you to keep getting better.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No create-a-player feature.
 No career mode.
 No doubles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 24, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 88 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 3,457 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar San Diego
Genre: Tennis
Date: May 22, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
By focusing almost exclusively on extremely intense one-on-one competitions, Table Tennis more than 
 compensates for its lean set of options. 

  As one of the first commercially available video games, Pong seems to have an almost academic importance, 
 but not enough credit is given to the simple elegance of its design -- two bar-shaped "paddles," 
 one square "ball" -- something that was born largely out of technical limitations. There is an obvious 
 correlation between Pong and the newly minted Rockstar's Table Tennis for the Xbox 360, in that 
 Table Tennis is literally a ping-pong simulation. But it also follows the same philosophy of stripping 
 the experience down to its essence, something focused and intense. Rockstar's Table Tennis treats 
 the game like a serious sport, taking incredible care to present some of the most realistic player 
 characters ever put in a game and delivering frenetic and nuanced action.  

          Table Tennis defies you to not be impressed with its incredible-looking player models. 
     

  In the real world, it's easy to write off table tennis as a stunted summer-camp version of real 
 tennis, even though table tennis is an Olympic sport. This isn't to say that there's not skill 
 and technique involved in table tennis, but the barrier to entry and the physical exertion are 
 much lower. As a video game, though, Table Tennis plays like a high-speed distillation of the gameplay 
 offered by the likes of Virtua Tennis and Top Spin, and like the most addictive of games, the action 
 is easy to pick up but still rich with the kind of subtlety that makes it a challenge to truly 
 master. You have four different types of shots -- topspin, backspin, left spin, and right spin -- which 
 correspond to the four face buttons on the controller. Alternately, you can use the right analog 
 stick to trigger the different shot types, though this method is a lot more difficult to come to 
 grips with. The longer you hold one of the shot buttons during the ball's approach, the more power 
 you'll put behind your swing, and you can also lean the left analog stick during this charge-up 
 period to influence the direction of your shot, though your table position and the incoming trajectory 
 of the ball figure heavily into where your shot will end up, as well.  

  This will all seem like really familiar ground for anyone who's played any sort of modern tennis 
 video game, but Table Tennis separates itself in several crafty ways, turning the gameplay into 
 something unique. It all starts with the serve meter, which combines both a rising spin meter and 
 an oscillating power meter, giving you more flexibility with how your serve gets delivered. You 
 can choose to go full-bore with maximum spin and maximum shot power and hope to overpower your 
 opponent, you can fake out your opponent with a weak, spin-heavy shot that will bounce twice before 
 they even know what happened, and so on. Once the ball is in play, the game puts a faint color-coded 
 halo around the ball that clues you in on which type of spin your opponent used, and you can take 
 that momentum and throw it right back at them by countering with the same shot type. Color-blind 
 players should take note that, while this is a really nice piece of visual shorthand for most people, 
 they might find it difficult to differentiate between the colors.  

  As you get into the more-advanced techniques, your four standard spin shots can also be combined 
 to create hybrid spin shots by holding multiple buttons at once, giving you access to shots that 
 blend the speed of a topspin and the curve of a sidespin shot. You also have a focus meter that 
 fills as you successfully return the ball, which you can tap into by holding the right bumper before 
 you start charging up your swing, unleashing an even faster, more potent shot that can easily catch 
 your opponent off guard. There are other small touches at work here, as well, which really help 
 capture the specifics of table tennis, such as the way a ball will bounce off in an unpredictable 
 direction when it hits an edge or how a player can, on rare occasion, recover a shot after it bounces 
 off his or her body. One of the most subtle features, and arguably one of the best little details 
 in Table Tennis, is the use of force feedback. As you charge up your return shot and use the left 
 analog stick to aim it, the controller will start to rumble as your aim gets closer to the edge 
 of the table, giving you a tactile sense for when you need to stop pushing toward the edge. It 
 makes the aiming simultaneously more intuitive and more effective, and it's so simple and so brilliant 
 that it will be disappointing if the next crop of regular tennis video games doesn't implement 
 a similar feature.  

          Much like the real sport, it's easy to start playing Table Tennis, but there turns out 
 to be a lot of skill and finesse involved.     

  Table Tennis is definitely more concerned with getting the core gameplay correct than it is with 
 adding frills, which comes through in the game's relatively modest options. The offline game consists 
 of four different tournaments, each one bigger and more challenging than the previous. You might 
 be able to breeze through the first tournament with just the topspin shot, but the difficulty of 
 the AI ramps up to a nice, tense challenge in the second tournament, and by number three you're 
 going to be sweating each and every swing of the paddle. There seems to be some unique AI at work 
 as well, with each opponent having his or her own strengths and weaknesses, and part of the challenge 
 lies in finding the different techniques that your opponents are susceptible to. There's also one-off 
 exhibition mode that pits you against either a CPU opponent or a second player. Unfortunately, 
 all match types are limited to one-on-one table tennis, so there's no doubles play. The single-screen 
 two-player matches work better here than they do in most tennis games, largely because there isn't 
 as much ground to cover, making the backcourt perspective less of a handicap. The game encourages 
 you to keep coming back to the single-player game with the promise of unlockable characters, costumes, 
 and arenas.  

  For that matter, the game has a really well-balanced set of unlockable achievements to keep you 
 going, which go from simplistic stuff like going through the game's basic tutorial, to genuine 
 challenges like playing through an entire tournament in 14 minutes or less, to stuff like racking 
 up 10-plus hours of gameplay time. Several of the achievements can also be had through different 
 routes, though the game is purposely oblique about what, exactly, those alternate routes are. There's 
 Xbox Live support, as well, with ranked matches, instant tournaments for up to eight players, and 
 the ability to tweak a few match variables such as the number of rounds and the score needed to 
 win. As much as it would have been nice to see a Virtua Tennis-style career mode, complete with 
 a character creation system and crazy minigames, the gameplay in Table Tennis just feels so right 
 that a short list of modes is easy to accept. A lower-than-average retail price helps.  

  The focused design of Table Tennis works to its advantage in other ways, though, specifically with 
 regards to the presentation. There are 11 different prefab players for you to choose from, and 
 you'd have a hard time finding player models in any other game that look and move more convincingly. 
 Eyes gleam with life; shirts shift around as the players move; sweat beads up and glistens on the 
 skin as the match progresses, eventually seeping through the fabric of the player's shirt. The 
 animations themselves have a really natural, fluid look to them, as well, with different players 
 holding their paddles in different ways and occasionally displaying unique little physical tics, 
 though some of the transitions feel a little mechanical. They also manage to bypass the "uncanny 
 valley" -- that uncomfortable level of realism that's both too realistic, and not realistic enough -- most 
 of the time, though occasionally you'll catch an odd angle on a player during a replay that just 
 looksoff.  

          The gameplay is so fast and furious that extended play sessions can leave your nerves completely 
 shot.     

  For all the phenomenal detail that is poured into the players, there's not much else to look at. 
 The different arenas you can play in definitely have their own unique atmosphere, ranging from 
 a run-down rec center to the Chinese National Table Tennis Arena, but when you're actually playing, 
 all you'll see is two players, a table, and a ball. The frame rate is usually rock-solid, though 
 when it does dip it's quite noticeable, and it occurs seemingly for no good reason. Some games 
 might put a premium on lots of background noise, but it seems like this minimalist presentation 
 is beneficial to the pacing and intensity of the gameplay. Besides, the game's surprisingly crisp 
 sound design provides plenty of its own distractions in the form of some distinct crowd noise. 
 You'll hear specific encouragement from fans, nationalist chants, and the rumbling stomp of feet 
 in the grandstands. There are also techno tracks that kick in when you get locked into a really 
 serious rally. But the music can get pretty cheesy, so not everyone will enjoy it, because it doesn't 
 quite fit with the game's otherwise-straight-laced tone.  

  Thanks in no small part to Rockstar's own Grand Theft Auto series, there is a trend in game design 
 right now to constantly expand the scope of your game, a real "bigger is better" mentality. The 
 idea of an open-ended game is fun, but there's also something to be said for focusing on a single 
 task and executing it with incredible detail and precision, which is exactly what Table Tennis 
 does. This is one of the most accessible and exciting pure action games to hit the Xbox 360 so 
 far, and one that can be easily recommended to just about anyone.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (261 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 7:29 am PT
Review:  rockstar making a tennis game is surprising since there speciality is the GTA series.... overall 
 I enjoyed this game the graphics are a huge step up and look great on an HD TV setup or plasma... 
 The models are actually used in GTA 4 and I found myself just looking at the graphics and the facial 
 expressions and clothing for a little while... The game plays great.... It can be challenging starting 
 off and the AI is almost too smart sometimes... but this game is fantastic and I had a blast with 
 it.... u can pick it up in the store for like 7 dollars used or 15 new and it is a great bargain 
 these days... For people who like table tennis or are looking for a new sports game this is for 
 u... The style, gameplay, and width of the game is amazing and it proves that rockstar can do anything 
 with their games such as GTA, midnight club and now this series it is a shame that this game has 
 not sold more.... people still play it online though ( a few) and u can play tournaments with yourself 
 and your friends... fantastic game and really, really fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  Gaming is a great, but expensive hobby. Especially when you own more than one console (like me, 
 I've got a wii and a x360) . But I think it's a waste of your money if you don't finish a game which 
 costs you  59,-. 
  Like GTA IV, this is a fantastic game but so big, that it will take a long time to finish, and 
 I think many gamers won't see the end sequence. I haven't finished GTAIV, and I can understand 
 some players won't because if you have to play the same game for more than 70 hours it can get 
 boring. 
  So what's my point? 
  
  I needed a game to play in between, something totally else, something that excels in one thing, 
 which is cheap, something like a sit-and-go game. I went to the game shop and my eyes dropped on 
 table tennis. for a mere  15,-, I decided to buy this one. And am I glad I did. What a fantastic 
 little game, I think this is the first sportsgame which didn't annoy me because of all the different 
 buttons and controls you have to remember. Just 4 ways to hit a ball, the control stick to aim, 
 and the bumpers for effects. Brilliant. The players are well-detailed, the soundtrack is touchy, 
 the sound effects are realistic, and it just plays sooo good. But the downside is, that I play 
 this game far more often than I play GTA IV. Now what?! ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dexz
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 11, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  Maybe it's not much of an achievement to be the greatest table tennis game ever made. Seriously, 
 how many are there?
  
  I bought the game on a sale offer for about 20 bucks. 
  I didn't really have any expectation at all when I put it in the Xbox. 
  
  At first it seemed 
 really hard and I had problems taking a single point against an easy computer.
  But after just an hour I was a pretty descent player. 
  
  This games is not as easy as for 
 example Virtua Tennis but in my opinion its more depth to it.
  
  After been playing for about 2-3 hours you generally know the most of the commands and use em pretty 
 effectively. 
  But there is still allot you can improve and after been playing for over 10 hours I still feel 
 there is more to learn. 
  
  The Graphics are really good. Because you don't have any option to create a character and play 
 with it the existing ones look really realistic. They all have a specific style and set of expressions. 
 
  I kind of got annoyed with the "taunting" every player does after a close ball. 
  Ive been playing table tennis myself for many years and even though I kinda sucked I still knew 
 better then to do the chicken dance after landing a nice smash. 
  
  The achievements will keep you busy for a long time and when your bored of playing with the computers 
 the Multiplayer mode offers you allot of fun.
  
  Anyways.. To add things up its a really good table tennis game, nothing more, nothing less.
  
 I wouldn't payed full price when it was released, but now days its a perfect budget game, pick 
 it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eunao2
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Rockstar Present's Table Tennis is a very impressive game.
  
  The character models are very good and the surrounding environments are not that great but it makes 
 you fell right in the game whether you score a point or loose one, the crowds reactions are awesome. 
 The sounds are what you would expect it to be the ball hitting the table and then the pain or effort 
 of the player to reach the ball. The only thing about the sounds that I hated is the annoucer he 
 just has a couple a phrases and that's it no big deal his presence is not that important.
  
  Table Tennis as a very interesting gameplay mechanics it's basically you press a button for 
 a long time and the ball goes to the opponent with some strenght, but if you press the button too 
 long the ball goes out or (as you are a lucky man) hits the edges. Then you have smashes and soft 
 shots which are basically the same mechanic as the spin shots. The only thing that ruins the gameplay 
 are the focus shots, which are basically shots that have a very short angle, hyper speed and a 
 lot of strenght, by the way they are almost impossible to catch unless you are on the correct side. 
 The game's controls are very simple and easy to pick up.
  
  All and all Table Tennis is a great game with the exception of focus shots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willsi100
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I got this game free when I got my xbox 360 a few years ago now.
  Obviously, this game was not on the top of the list of games I wanted to play, so it remained unopened 
 for a while.
  I first played the single player part of this game which competed of playing in a number of tournaments 
 against the characters in the game at different levels. 
  This was fun at first, but after a while of playing it got a bit repetitive and I lost interest 
 in this.
  I then played the multi player part of this game, which was actually a lot more addictive. 
  
 The beautiful graphics and good game play made me rather competitive at this game whether it was 
 against my family, friend, or just on xbox live.
  Overall, I wouldn't get this game if you were looking for a single player table tennis game. You 
 will get a bit bored of it after an hour or two. But, if you want a good simple game to play against 
 somebody or on xbox live then by all means get this game. You wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 23, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  2006 may 22.
  table tennis relesed. many was exited. i was to but then i bought it and yhe it was so boring after 
 some hours and so easy.
  
  the achivements are ok but far away from good.
  
  the only good thing was online playing and multiplayer (i count it as the same) couse then it was 
 fun. couse if you played it ofline. when you read the computer it so easy couse when you play it 
 again for you loose the you know what you have to meet. nothing new when you lost or loose same 
 gyes again and again.
  
  i'm giving it 2B (same as+)
  boring and one of the lamest what ive think)
  not good rockstar not good.
  
  this game wasent 
 good i know rockstar can do better.
  
  they have done so many good games like grand theft aouto series and bully: schoolar ship edition.
 
  
  and know to make up some charters i wrote this little sentens right under.
  
  bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _rock_
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  Great in game play.
  
  Good achievements to keep you playing.
  
  Player detail is Amazing.
  
  Great crowd sounds in the ping pong arena.
  
  Online play.
 
  
  Fast paced.
  
  Great rumble feature
  
  
  
  The Bad:
  
  No career mode.
  
  There could be more tournaments.
  
  There is no create a player mode.
  
  No multilayer 
 mini games.
  
  No doubles.
  
  
  Overview:
  
  Rockstar presents table tennis is a surprisingly good game, with its top spin like controls,
 
  Great game play and an easy pick up and play game. Why wouldn't you want to buy it?
  
  Gameplay:
  
  You hit the ball they hit it back, They hit the ball you hit it back how much 
 more simpler could it be?
  Well overall the game is how you choose it you can play on 4 different difficulty levels Easy, 
 medium, hard and expert.
  Easy and medium being not much of a challenge, Hard is when you will have to start putting your 
 skill to the test and you know when
  you have mastered the game if you can beat expert. Overall there isn't a massive increase when 
 you go up a skill level, because it will get harder
  each match of each tournament so the difficulty progresses nicely in this game.
  
  Now when 
 it comes to single player I was hoping for a career mode like on top spin where you build up your 
 skill, make your own player and travel
  the world playing in table tennis tournaments. So when I saw that there was only 4 tournaments 
 to choose from in single player mode I was a little disappointed.
  But never mind the tournaments are still have fun to play. as you progress threw the tournament 
 each tournament you will play more match's in for example...
  Easy you play 3 or 4 match's, medium about 6 or 7 match's and so on. But you will not have access 
 to all the tournaments at once you will have to beat hard the tournaments
  to unlock the expert tournament. Also in the game menu you can change the length on a match and 
 how many games (in the match) you can play so you can make tournaments match's shorter 
  or longer. There is also an exhibition mode where you can just have friendly match against a CPU 
 on any difficulty level.
  
  The multilayer in table tennis is pretty basic you can either have a local match with another person 
 in exhibition mode its a shame that you can't play doubles. You can also play on xbox live
  You can either just play an exhibition match with someone online or you can play a ranked match 
 when will go towards your stats as you win and loss games you will go up and down the rankings. 
 You can 
  also host timed tournaments with a number on people online, I have never used that feature because 
 no one seems to play it. So thats about it for multilayer nothing too exciting just the basics 
 for a sport game.
  I bought they could have done better by maybe adding in some multilayer mini games or something. 
 Or a doubles's tournament where you could either play online or local.
  
  There is also training mode its pretty basic, There just drills on how to master certain moves 
 passing these will help your overall game play so its worth giving them a go. You also get an achievement 
 if you pass them all
  perfectly that might be a little insentive :P.
  
  At the start of the game you have about 4 players to choose from, but as you progress threw (passing 
 tournaments, versing CPU a certain amount of times) you will unlock new players from all different 
 country. The players all
  have a skill metered and it will tell you what there best at eg.. there good at spinning the ball, 
 applying power to the ball, serving. Overall the player's are all nicely balanced with there skills 
 except one player "Jesper" who is 
  clearly the fastest hitter of the ball in the whole game and you havent mastered spin and your 
 opponent is Jesper you don't have a good chance of winning, But other then that its a fair game. 
 There are also unlockable's for each player.
  Each player has 5 T - shirts to unlock and 1 to 2 table tennis table's. In the game it dose tell 
 you have to unlock each of these items there fairly easy sometimes it could be just win a match 
 with a soft shot or anything like that.
  
  Now lets get to the controls. This is one of the things about the game that impressed me. If you 
 have ever played Top spin or any recent tennis game you will be pleased to know that they are similar 
 and easy to use. Its pretty simple. A 
  is for a power shot, X and B and spin shots and Y is a lob. You can also use the second analog 
 stick for certain shots UP is a top spin BACK is a back spin and then the 2 sides are just spin 
 hits. You can also mix things up a little, You can press
  two buttons at once for a combined shot for example if you press X and A you get a more powerful 
 spin shot, Or you press Y and B you get a spinning lob shot. You can Also use LB and RB for certain 
 shots LB is a drop shot but you have to combined 
  it with another button to play the shot Same goes with RB Press RB with a selected shot to give 
 you a more powerful shot (Note that you will need your focus meter up a bit to use a power shot 
 and with each use your focus meter will go down) . And Thats about
  it for the controls.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics in this game are amazing. The players look so natural when hitting 
 the ball, they move well, And another thing the shirts on the players move so naturally The shirt 
 will move up and down when you hit the ball, move around it just looks great. You will also
  notice when you are well into a match you will see sweat patch's on the player's clothes, Sweat 
 dripping down there faces. This game just looks so real.
  
  They they Didn't try and go all out on making this game look colorful with fancy looking ping pong 
 rooms and table's and try and dress up the main menu with all sorts of colors its just a nice natural 
 look which really helps the game in the end.
  
  Thats pretty much it Graphically all you need to know the Graphics in this game are high end for 
 2006 xbox 360 games.
  
  
  Sounds: The sounds in this game add a great feel to it. As you walk into the table tennis stadium 
 you will hear the roar of the crowed cheering you on as you get ready to start playing. There is 
 an Umpire who will just say the score, if the ball is out, who is serving, and who wins
  the match His voice is pretty boring and can get annoying at some times. 
  
  After you win 
 a point you will hear your play scream for joy, whisper something to himself or have a bit of a 
 laugh at your opponent: P. 
  
  The sounds of the ball hitting the bat are spot on you can hear the difference between a Smash 
 shot, Drop shot any type of shot, It just adds to the over all experience .
  
  The noises in the menu as you go up and down are ping noises (ball hitting the bat sounds) or as 
 you enter the game it makes a ping pong ball bouncing noise just little effects that add to the 
 overall experience to the game.
  
  The sounds in Rockstar presents table tennis are pretty much what you would expect Nothing to exciting 
 just what you need to hear.
  
  Conclusion: Rockstar table tennis is a great game for anyone interested in table tennis or tennis, 
 Or Evan if your just a sports fan. Im my opinion its fun for almost anyone and since now thats 
 its cheap if you haven't already played it Id say try it out.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bozo9182
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  So I saw this game at my local game store for about 10 bucks, I thought about it and said why not, 
 Ping Pong should be pretty fun. I start playing this game and WOW, talk about intense gameplay. 
 The depth in the gameplay in this game is incredible, where you can choose where you want the ball 
 to go, how, and how fast, all with the touch of a few buttons. The intensity is crazy as well. 
 The one-on-one gameplay really amazed me on how hard it can get.
  
  The graphics were also suprisingly amazing, seeing how it was only a 2006 year game, I thought 
 it would be along the lines of sloppy and edgy but no! You can see the players shirt move back 
 and forth depending on where hes moving, after a few rounds you can see the sweat stained on his 
 shirt, its simply unbelievable.
  
  The sound quality is also great. The sound of the ball hitting the paddle sounds crazy real. The 
 crowd is also realistic too, seeing how they are quiet during the first few rounds of play and 
 once the match gets intense, they rise to their feet and start yelling.
  
  So overall, I thought this game was great. The only problem with this game is that since its so 
 old, nobody really plays it anymore so nobody is online. This poses a problem because a lot of 
 the achievements are for playing online and if you're like me, I like getting achievements. But 
 overall this game is awesome and you will keep playing for a long time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lnehme
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  If you like intense 1x1 play and likes table tennis, this game is for you. I had lots of fun playing 
 this game, especially against my friends. 
  
  But as Gamespot said, there is no create-a-player mode, a feature that would make the game a bit 
 more interesting. But the focus mode, when you hit the ball in slow motion, compensates a lot the 
 lack of features. The graphics are outstanding, especially the players movements. I thought the 
 game a little hard. 
  
  You know when you spend hous only to win a game? Well, that is the problem with the championship 
 finals. But, despite this little mistakes, Rockstar Table Tennis is a great game, and a good buy, 
 considering the price.
  
  .
  ..
  ...
  ....
  .....
  ......
  .......
  ........
  .........
  ..........
  ...........
  ............
  .............
  .............. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superbus1981
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 2, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I remember the 2600. My brother and I had ET, Combat, Pitfall, Pac-man (there was no Ms. at that 
 time kiddies) and Pole Position. One favorite was Pong, we connected the optional paddle-wheel 
 style controls and played until our still-developing wrist were palsied from improper use (get 
 your minds out of the gutter, folks) . 
  So when I finally got my hands on Rockstar's Table Tennis, it took me back to the times of good 
 old fashioned video gaming. Maybe I'm biased from my early exposure to simple games that focused 
 on a single subject, but I find myself completely hooked on this game. I can play this game for 
 hours on end, and at this point it rivals the amount of time I spent mastering Super Street Fighter 
 for the Sega Genesis way back in 1994. 
  One thing I really like about the game is that it has this quirky, ambient, euro-trash element. 
 Its like you could meet the members of Kraftwerk or the Nihilists from "The Big Lebowski" in the 
 audience. The game really captures the kitschy elements and strange sub-culture of real life ping 
 pong counter-culture. 
  Definitely worth the money, low price-point and you'll more than likely be able to pick it up second-hand. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrRoberto
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  As I walked out of Best Buy, they asked me if I wanted to subscribe to one of their featured magazines. 
 "No, I just want to go home and play ping-pong." I replied. If my life were a movie, the perfect 
 sound effect to accompany that moment would be the requisite needle scratch on the record. That 
 opening pretty much sums up this humble reviewers preconceived notions about the fine sport of 
 table tennis.
  
  Let's just put the obvious question of why this was made aside, and just say that this is a very 
 enjoyable and great-looking update to PONG. There, I said it. The gameplay essentially boils down 
 to a retread of PONG, which works to its credit. The visceral nature of the game play is hypnotizing. 
 The control model is supremely simple to pick up, allowing one to get up and running almost immediately. 
 Conversely, the finesse of ball control comes with a steep learning curve. The training modes provided 
 do little to actually give you practice, they merely serve to show you the complexity hidden in 
 the "simple" controls. All of the training in the world flies right out of the window the first 
 match that you are given. After the initial rush of completing a few volleys, the strategy of ball 
 placement/swing becomes enjoyable in a frustrating way. The competition is FIERCE from the start, 
 and you will earn every slam or fumble from the opposite side of the table. Granted, you will be 
 screwing up at every turn, as the AI will exploit your inexperience to the fullest. It is a daunting 
 task to win matches, but the computer never seems to be cheating, it is merely better than you.
 
  
  The strengths of this game are all in the controls and gameplay mechanics. Technically, it is a 
 very solid and enjoyable game. The weakness is in the options the player has. There is a very limited 
 set of things to do. Sure, you can unlock players and uniforms, but it ends there. There are bracketed 
 tourneys, but it counts toward nothing. That's right, a modern sports game without any kind of 
 career mode. It is a glaring omission from an otherwise great game. As is stands, once the novelty 
 wears off, you will only pop the disc in occasionally to play a match online, or perhaps split 
 screen with a friend. Rockstar could have added some kind of career functionality to extend the 
 game, and as such, it seems like a very good-looking and fun update of PONG, and less a real game. 
 In fact, it sort of feels like something you could download off of the arcade, if they had just 
 scaled back the graphics. 
  
  Overall, this game is a great addition to the game shelf of anyone who is looking for a great little 
 simulation, without any of the modern sports title trappings. It is retailing for $20, and one 
 can do far worse for far more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojowonderdog
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Rockstar Table tennis is a really great game.... for a while. The graphics and gameplay are fantastic, 
 especially for a game thats over a year old already. 
  
  The problem with it is that there's not much variation to the tournaments. Its a great game to 
 pick up and play for a short time, to get a quick fix of it. But when you try and play it for a 
 longer period of time it starts to get a bit tedious. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, for a game that you would have assumed would be rubbish from the start, Table 
 Tennis has done a fantastic job on making an unknown sport accessible to everyone. 
  
  It's one of those games that everyone who has a 360 owns (like Perfect Dark Zero) and you can get 
 it pretty cheap, used from ebay (5/$10) . It may not blow your mind, but it's definitely worth 
 having for the occasional play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  The favorite game of everyone who had to go to the basement to get more soda, ping pong is easy 
 to play and hard to get out of your head. It's presented here in an international competition, 
 as a tribute to its huge popularity overseas, and you will have to learn quickly in order to stay 
 afloat. There are all kinds of trick shots to master. I must say that one disappointing thing was 
 the focus shot, because the ball is pretty tiny and it's hard to tell what color you are supposed 
 to be aiming for. (You have to press the same color button as the glow around it.) Also, you have 
 few choices in the roster of players until you reach many of the unlockable goals. The crowd reaction 
 is rudimentary. The camera setting is claustrophobic. Still, the fun of gameplay wraps you in so 
 quickly, you won't mind most of this stuff. I hope they make a new version which corrects some 
 of these issues. However, for now, it's more addicting than cherry sours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabio_21
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  If you are MINIMALLY interested in videogames, you have heard of Pong.
  You know.. The black screen.. With two bars and a ball ?
  You know it was some sort of tennis/table 
 tennis kinda like game.
  
  Now imagine the simplicity of Pong merged with incredible high-def player models, a realistic physics 
 engine and a bunch load of fun over Live.
  
  It might feel complicated the first time you play it, with all those complicated buttons and obscure 
 functions.. Guess wut, it isn't.
  Indeed, there are some more complicated moves... But they aren't really any much better than good 
 ol' A button.
  So, it can be simple if you want simple, and complicated if you want special moves.
  Also a positive 
 note to the ball way-controlling system. Rumble has never been so useful.
  
  As to the game's AI. It's pretty tough.. But you won't be all frustrated and stuff.
  
  Sound-wise, 
 the ball-hitting TAC and POK are nice. When the ball gets hit many times in a play some light music 
 will be heard on the background.
  
  Live play is fun, but playing in the same room with a buddy/girlfriend/mom is better.
  This is 
 one of those games that your friend don't even know it exists and then play it and have some fun.
 
  
  When I first saw this game I thought: INSTA-BUY 
  I don't regret it. It's a hell LOT OF FUN! More than than GTA3: Crime is Back or something...
 
  
  Are you up to the challenge... of TABLE TENNIS?
  
  Great game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  This is probably the most fun I've ever had playing a video game version of ping pong. That said, 
 it really didn't have much competition.
  
  What this game has going for it is some great characters and good looking visuals. The audio is 
 wonderful as well. Physics are near perfect for your shots. Controls work really well too. Overall 
 what is there all works very well.
  
  The problem is that there isn't much to do. You can play in exhibitions and tournaments and that 
 is it. Online play is available, but if you don't have a friend who is into this game you probably 
 wont be able to find someone to play against. So even if you enjoy this game, like I do, you'll 
 probably have a lot of trouble playing it for any extended amount of time.
  
  Since you can get this game for somewhere around $10 now, if you're curious just go ahead and buy 
 it. It is worth the low price, but thats about all it is worth. The game is more comparable to 
 a very good looking and good sounding XBLA title in terms of depth though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calzoony
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  Well you go through training expecting a storyline there is no such thing. all you do is play in 
 tournaments on different difficultys that your choose. It does get hard after the first couple 
 of tournaments. the online play is very difficult and you need to be good at the game to succeed 
 as every1 has there own tips on winning a match. but all in all i like a game with a storyline and 
 is not for me. but if your a sport fanatic, you should give it a shot as it is a whole new take 
 on the sport industry and on table tennis itself.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  It may sound odd to some but Rockstar Table Tennis was one of the games that sold me the console. 
 Next-Gen Ping Pong! It just seemed to come out of left-feild and was endearing to see Rockstar, 
 famed for controversy, making a goody-two-shoes, Joe ice-cream kind of title.
  
  So when I got round to playing it, the first game for my brand new console I was already predisposed 
 to like it. It just so happend that it turned out to be the best tennis game I've ever played. 
 The controls are intuitive, the pace is frantic the sound and graphics authentic, the online multi-player 
 friendly but competitive. It's a great game.
  
  I've had games come and go in my collecting over the months but I won't get rid of Table Tennis. 
 It's a perfect game for when friends come around and you can play it when your girlfriend or your 
 mum is around and she won't think youre a total misanthrope who just wants to shoot people up all 
 the time. Actually on this point it's great because it provides the perfect respite from shooting 
 dudes so that when you've had a particulary frustrating game of Table Tennis, probably losing to 
 Jesper on omnipotent difficulty settings, you're ready to go back to lining up a few more head 
 shots to let off some steam!
  
  Perhaps the most satisfying thing about Table Tennis is the physics engine coupled with the super 
 responsive controls. It all serves to make you feel like you're playing a real game of Ping Pong. 
 I'd recommend this to anyone, it's great fun and it's very reasonably priced to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezeryder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  For a company known for hyper-violent and downright dirty games, suddenly throwing a game at us 
 - devoted to one of the least coolest sports around - seems like an odd choice. Even odder is it, 
 that they actually manage to make it cool. I believe this is how this strange idea came to be....
 
  
  Idea-man1: You know... I was sitting at home watching Ichi The Killer with my kids and -
  
 
  Idea-man2: What again?
  
  Idea-man1: Listen to me! So there I was watching this dude getting needles shoved up his scrotum 
 and ... I yawned.....
  
  Idea-man2: (sprays coffee all over the desk) You WHAT?? Yawned?? Are you insane???
  
  Idea-man1: 
 (musing) You see... all this violence - it's everywhere. The market is packed and I'm also damn 
 sick of how the morale-patrole always makes a big deal whenever we make games about what all the 
 kids can watch on TV and on the street - day in and day out.
  
  Idea-man2: Dude... I told you that mega-spliff was a sharer - a sha-rer !
  
  Idea-man1: You 
 know what my favorite game actually is?
  
  Idea-man2: Sure, you told me many times.. Postal and Carmageddon - you can never decide.
  
 
  Idea-man1: I lied - I just had to say that or they'd have filed my application under wuss . No.. 
 My favorite game is actually Pong. So I want to make that our next project... a tribute to the 
 beauty of returning balls to eachother...
  
  Idea-man2: My advice is that you better ask whoever to return YOUR balls.
  
  Idea-man1: Just 
 a clean, shaved game of Ping Pong. That's my vision!
  
  Idea-man2: Well.... I like the part about the clean and shaved ... So... how do you kill eachother? 
 What weapons?
  
  Idea-man1: What the-.. It's Ping Pong! Aka tabletennis!
  
  Idea-man2: What about women.. any women in it?
  
  Idea-man1: Sure...
  
  Idea-man2: Can 
 you buy them?
  
  Idea-man1: No.... you can UNLOCK them...
  
  Idea-man2: Unlock?? Now we're talking, baby!
  
  Idea-man1: And there should be this focus-shot.. 
 Matrix-style that slows time down and techno-beats as the rally prolongs...
  
  Idea-man2: Focus-shot, eh? There's a sexual twist on that somewhere.. gimme a minute...
  
  
 Idea-man1: No.. you- oh... Just gimme the green light and I promise that my next game will get 
 banished on at least three continents.
  
  Idea-man2: Deal!
  
  So... it's all about the intensity and focus of tabletennis. And I dare anyone not to like this 
 game. I brought it with me to a friends summerhouse... 6 friends, gallons of alcohol, beaches with 
 girls on 'em - but what did we do? Tabletennis, tabletennis, tabletennis. Highly addictive and 
 the day you meet your match - get ready for eyeball-exploding intensity. Best multiplayer sports-title 
 in a long time.
  
  Idea-man1: So, my friend.. we've been playing Table Tennis for 17 hours straight now - what do 
 you think?
  
  Idea-man2: Hmmm... I really like the way the girls sweat and groan..
  
  Idea-man1: Oh for f- sake.... Let's just play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: treyballard
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Well this is one surprise from Rockstar Games, a video game with no cussing, sex or otherwise controversial 
 material. It is simply table tennis. This game covers that sport great with stunning visuals and 
 a good controller scheme. There are 4 different spin moves (obviously since you can only spin a 
 ball in only four major directions) and they all have different colors. The only problem I have 
 with this area is that the top-spin and the back-spin and green and yellow respectively and they 
 are sometimes hard to differentiate. This game is not very deep either which is ok because it is 
 ping pong not an RPG so it doesn't need a good storyline. Also it does not seem to matter what 
 difficulty setting you have it on because as you advance further into the tournaments your opponents 
 get harder to the point that they are almost unbeatable. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who is a big fan of the sport or is looking for a decent cheap game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kickerscrt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I'm not usually a big fan of this type of game, but the 19.99 price tag couldn't 
 be passed up. This game is by no means perfect, but it's still pretty fun. The visuals are outstanding 
 as well as the sound. Gameplay is really straightforward, as this is not one of those games that 
 will take any length of time to learn to play. The career mode is fun, albeit nearly impossible. 
 The further you advance the more difficult the opponents get until you get to a point where you 
 just cannot seem to win no matter what you do. Play on LIVE is fun with some really exciting moments. 
 This game is sort of old, though, so finding a match can take some time. All in all, I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who is a fan of ping pong, or who has 20 bucks burning a hole in their pocket. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr1pp7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Table Tennis is just about as good as you might think it is when you first learn of its 
 existence  a hokey ping-pong game. I personally got the game for free with the purchase of my 
 360 and I wasnt exactly thinking of it as a selling point. But, eventually I went ahead and 
 popped it in the reader and played it until I was at least decent at it. While the game did start 
 to stick to me after some initial aggravation, the stickiness didnt last long. The graphics are 
 okay and the controls tight  making likely a bit better than I had expected  and with that I 
 initially had given it an 8 thinking for its class it is pretty good, but have came back realizing 
 that in giving it an 8 Im essentially saying buy me before all the other games Ive ranked lower 
  not the case. SO, without further delay, this is me hereby dropping my rating of this game to 
 what it really should be when compared to all of the other great buys out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosa922
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I like this game because its simple and not repetitative, like some tennis games.
  Table tennis is actualy a nice sport, but i would of never thought of putting it into a game, and 
 thats what Rockstar did. And it worked.
  
  You can unlock items and beat tournaments, but also the tournaments also get harder as you progress 
 unlike some Tennis games.
  
  Yes of course there are flaws.
  Sometimes your oponent is so hard to beat, then you have to play another hard charector. Also there 
 isnt a big selection of charecters, and you cant really customize your charecters, like sunglasses, 
 whatches etc.
  
  I recommand buying this game only if you like these kinds of games, and of course you have to like 
 table tennis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DodgeDuty
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Table Tennis surprised me how good it is for only $20. The career mode isn't deep, neither is the 
 customization but it is a fun pick up and play especially with friends. The game is about timing, 
 and every shot timed right will add more spin or speed than an average shot. The slices and curves 
 can be hit by using the face buttons or the right thumbstick, a la Fight Night style. There is 
 a focus mode, but I couldn't get it to work on my own, and the only time it happened was during 
 a volley by trying to make the game drematic with the slow down. Most of the time it ended up screwing 
 me up. During volleys, the players really get into it, like the Chinese players on TV who play 
 so far back from the table. The spin and speed is notched up from both sides of the table. Two 
 bad though there aren't many tables to unlock, and they are only different in color and country.
 
  For a cheep bargain been game, its really fun to play. And having fun in ping pong is what really 
 matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudpig77
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  For Starters
  
  The Good - It is a different type of sports game. Kinda like old school Pong but with better graphics 
 and LOL (People) . Its a really fun game to play also, that is if you have a friend available to 
 play. 1 player is sorta boring but 2 players of the same skill level is awesome. Thats about it 
 for the good.
  
  The Bad - (Not really that bad just some left out features)
  
  NO CREATE A PLAYER OPTION - This was a major dissapointment in this game, almost everyone now a 
 days likes to create their own character. NO CAREER MODE - Yeah there is a tournament mode but 
 its almost the same thing everytime you play.
  
  NOT ENOUGH OPPONENTS - Is 11 Characters really enough? and you have to unlock several of these. 
 (If you want to play as an American then you have to be a girl, Not being sexist here but I would 
 at least want to play as a guy and I cant stand being a frenchmen or another country.) There should 
 have been a male and a female for each country.
  
  NEEDS MORE ARENAS - You will get tired of looking at the same old arenas fairly quick.
  
  Overall 
 its not that bad of a game, it just lacks some of the key elements that we think would have smashed 
 the game to the forfront. You may either want to rent it first or wait til it hits the discounted 
 games section to buy it. Then it will be a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  I was a skeptic when people told me how good this game was. I remember going to bestbuy with a 
 buddy of mine and we saw it on display. We played for a very longtime. It was pretty exciting especially 
 playing against someone. I never new the different types of swings and spins that you can have 
 on table tennis. I also was not aware of the strategies that you have when you play against different 
 types of players. You have a variation of skilled players. You have all around players to power 
 players that may seem difficult to play against. I bought this game for 17 bucks and its a great 
 deal. Its also pretty fun when you play it on xbox live. I personally reccomend this game for any 
 gamer that just wants to have fun and play table tennis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razalord
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  First of all table tennis is a highly addictive game and if you VS someone just as good as you 
 are prepare yourself for one hell of a match! The controls of table tennis are easy, A, B, X and 
 Y all perform counter strikes but holding RB button when pressing either A, B, X and Y will allow 
 you to perform a slow motion shot to help you counter those hard to reach shots! If you counter 
 shots perfectly you will increase your stamina bar, which when full will allow your player to move 
 faster and strike harder and more swiftly. Match settings can be changed to your preferred taste 
 and the settings can also be changed for the single player career.
  
  The single player option of the game is probaly the least impressive feature the game has to offer 
 but if you play through it you will be awarded for your efforts with prizes such as new stadiums, 
 New shirts and characters and most importantly MEDALS! The single player is set up in a tournamnet 
 style and one you beat one opponent you will be shifted to the next and so on, it's really that 
 easy! The graphics of table tennis are most definetely better than those seen in the FIFA series 
 and are without a doubht worthy of NEXT - GEN Visuals
  The character models are fully detailed from the hair to the way the clothes move and crease when 
 you leap from one side of the table to the other to the sweat that collects in the shirts. (The 
 environments look increadible!)
  
  The sound in the game is on Par with the visuals and matches the Fast -Paced gameplay perfectly, 
 with its catchy techno beat!
  
  I can enusre that the VS mode will imerse you more than the single player mode will but at least 
 there is a single player option! Its good simple fun and is very cheap, so if you want a slightly 
 different sports game then give table tennis a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jraudia
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game I was addicted. Great gameplay and amazing graphics create an amazing 
 game right? Not quite. This game is fun the first time, but it's all downhill from there. Gameplay 
 gets boring after awhile because all game modes are very similar. Not enough action. Every game 
 is the same, no changes, no unlockables. This game has the potential to be great, but it's missing 
 something. Great game. Horrible depth. Mediocre sound. Great graphics. Great game to have, but 
 you must have others to go along with it. Not a gears of war type game. You won't find yourself 
 playing it hours at a time. This is a great game that gets old. Fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tagheuer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  who would have thought that the same people that made GTA would make a ping-pong game. Let me say 
 this and what a great job they did. This game is super fun. I like playing ping-pong in real life 
 so maybe thats why I like it so much, but the thing is that Its a great game and I think everyone 
 should enjoy it.
  
  The pros:
  Great graphics, nice sound, the gameplay is super real and fun, many tables to unlock, also a few 
 characters to unlock.
  
  The cons:
  The game is kind of short, And once you start wining the tournaments the get really hard really 
 fast.
  
  I think the game is a must buy, but if you don't like table tennis maybe you should rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  Story: You and your paddle set out on a quest to rule the world!
  
  Graphics: Uses R. A. G. E. (Rockstar's Advanced Graphics Engine) Looks Great, players animate in lifelike 
 ways.
  
  Audio: Not much just some people cheering and a ball bouncing...
  
  Missions: Beat the opponent. Not to hard right?
  
  Controls: Use Left stick to move and aim 
 shot. Hit the ball with right stick of colored buttons. Can be annoying when you want to aim your 
 shot in one direction but instead you move and miss the return.
  
  Features: Wholesome Fun. No guns or prostitutes here.
  
  A. I.: Makes you mad when they whoop 
 your butt.
  
  Loading Times: Frequent but quick.
  
  Multiplayer: Pretty much same as single player. Very hard achievements. Requirements: N/A
  
 
  Weapons: Paddle of Doom!
  
  The Good: A fun game for people who want a break from all the violence in video games...
  
 
  The Bad: ... But it may make you want to inflict violence on the opponent.
  
  The Ugly: Your character's shirt after a 100+ rally, Sweaty!
  
  Replay Ability: Just as much 
 as any sports game.
  
  The Bottom Line: For $20 this game is a steal, just don't come looking for easy achievement points. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0nky
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  This may not be the most flashy game ever created, but it sure is great fun. It brings a new, fast 
 paced perspective to tennis-type games. It will keep you on the edge, with the back and forth action.
 
  
  The controls may seem a tad confusing at first, but after a good 15 minutes, you should have them 
 down fine. The game is not extremely hard, yet just challenging enough. The tournaments aren't 
 much very flashy either, yet still provide a fun and exciting game. The first tournament should 
 be quite easy to beat. The ones after do get quite tougher, but isn't that the point?
  
  The achievements aren't fantastically easy to get either, but if you love the game, you'll get 
 them faster than you think. Besides, with all the fun you'll be having, you won't even worry about 
 them! Live play is quite fun too. Though it can be hard to find opponents (especially in player 
 matches) it's great fun taking on other people when you can. So, in my opinion, Rockstar's Table 
 Tennis is a great game to sit back with, and have loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadrisingguy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  As u can tell by my review deck i love this game! For Starters the gamplay is simple but yet challenging 
 at the same time. A ring flows around the ball as u hit it. The color that flows around the ball 
 matchs the color of the button that u hit. The Graphics r one of the best i have seen on the 360. 
 It is very detailed and shiny. The sound of the paddle hitting to ball is perfect u may say. The 
 online play is awsome i love it! My only problem for the game is that there is no Character creation. 
 I can see that because the Character models r so detailed that it would be hard to do that. I love 
 this game and for $50 its worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantic_Fargo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  If you're one of those achievement addicts then this game isn't for you (unless of course... you 
 have alot of free time and are the ping pong champ :D)
  
  This game is pretty good though for friends because it just is... I can't explain it.... It's just.... really 
 fun... (although no one really plays it online... unless your on at the right time of day... which 
 is normally primetime...)
  
  It takes about 10-20 minutes to actually get used to the controls and start winning matches on 
 easy.
  
  Personally I think this game is amazing... I mean the sound quality and graphics are just so... awesome... and 
 for 'bout 30 bucks (I think...) it's a pretty good deal...
  
  If you need any tips, message me or add me on live (Frantic Fargo) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jejh1971
Rating: 4.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Okay, let me first start by stating that THIS GAME IS ANNOYING CRAP! So maybe the character models 
 are fairly realistic looking ( in that dead-eyed, creepy way ) ... but good graphics do not a fun, 
 or fair, game make! Once you get the hang of the odd controls you can pretty easily whup up on 
 the first group of tournament opponents, and then this is where The Dreaded Level 2 Curse kicks 
 in. You all know what I'm talking about, you've experienced it a million times before if you play 
 videogames frequently.... it's that curse where the computer opponents go from being dumb to being 
 magically talented all within the space of a few levels.
  
  I, for one, am totally tired of easily beating a game all through level one, feeling great about 
 it, and then quickly having to suffer with repetetive restarts and frustrating losses to a suddenly 
 'mystically enlightened' opponent who just a few levels ago was a punching bag for my once-imagined 
 skill, but has now become the Master Of All My Best Moves!
  
  Please in the name of all things that are semi-holy, STOP MAKING GAMES and A. I. LIKE THIS ! And 
 besides, who in the H%LL wants to play Table Tennis as a videogame? Are you kidding me? How mind-numbingly 
 dull.... and because of the Rockstar label on the box, I was suckered in.
  
  One last, and most important point : The Xbox 360 Achievements for this game are what i'd call 
 A Distant Dream GOOD LUCK YE HEARTY FOOLS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 31, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I wasn't all that excited when I heard that this game was coming out. I obviously 
 didn't have a huge urge to play a game of ping pong on my Xbox 360. This game recieved a lot of 
 critical praise, so I thought I would give it a shot. What I ended up playing was a fun game that 
 should've had 'career' and 'create-a-player' modes and ends up leaving me with the feeling that 
 this should've been an Xbox Live Arcade game.
  
  That's not to say the game is all bad. If you like to play table tennis, well the game does that 
 very well. At first, it's very easy to pick up and play. To learn how to really get good at the 
 game will take some time, however. And in that way, the game succeeds. It will teach you how to 
 play it and you will have quite a bit of fun..... for awhile.
  
  Then the lack of any career modes or the ability to create your own player will rear it's ugly 
 head. You see, the only three ways to play this game is in a tournament mode, single match, and 
 online. The tournament starts off quite easy, but the difficulty ramps up very quickly. The other 
 two modes are fun, but neither provide that lasting feeling of what you expect from a retail title. 
 This is just playing ping pong, over and over.
  
  The graphics are very nice in one area...... the player models. They look outstanding and animate 
 even better. This is as good as it gets in regards to that area. Of course, the player models better 
 look good. Because other than those, there isn't really much else to look at. There is no crowd 
 to speak of. You can hear them, but apparently they are invisible. It's just you, your opponent, 
 a table, a ball, and your immidiate surroundings. That's it.
  
  And the sound doesn't fare much better. The music here is quirky and has it's moments, but after 
 awhile it just gets lame. There is a little voice acting by some un-seen announcer, but nothing 
 great. Once again, Rockstar could've really improved this area with some decent tunes and some 
 emotion in the announcer and the characters themselves.
  
  I know this is a budget priced game, but there isn't much game here to play. If you really want 
 to spend the time it takes to unlock all the characters, tables, clothing, etc. then you will be 
 playing this for awhile. But if playing the same game of ping pong against the CPU A. I. a zillion 
 times sounds fun to you, then you are a more patient gamer than myself. Even the achievements aren't 
 worth the time it takes to complete them. And some are almost impossible to get, so if you are 
 trying this to help your gamerscore...... give this a pass.
  
  It's hard to call this game a disappointment, since I wasn't expecting much from a table tennis 
 game. But after reading many reviews, I was thinking this was going to be better than it was. So 
 in the end, I am disappointed with a game that could've been SO much better if they would have 
 just added some sort of mode that helps the longevity of the single-player game. Unfortunately, 
 this just comes off to me as a Xbox Live Arcade game with nice, retail game visuals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  Well its just table tennis... BUT THE BEST GRAPHICS BESIDES anything else... The are some cool 
 slo motions and neat gameplay.. Geat with mates... Not a MUSSSTTTTTT buy game but sure nice to 
 have in your collection... Great game from a violent group of Game producers  
 - black soulz
  
  P. s When you buy this game dont play all out you wear the game out..... Youll get bored of it.. 
 Its a fun social game and again this isnt a must buy but a good game to have in your cool\elction.
 
  SOOOOOO cheap too.. Around 30 AUD right now in certain stores like EB games and JBHiFi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmformm
Rating: 8
Date: May 8, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  gameplay is alright, sound is not good. overall, not worth the money. would not recommend to others. 
 i played for several hours after i got but after that, did not really play anymore. obviously best 
 pingpang game out there anyway. gameplay is alright, sound is not good. overall, not worth the 
 money. would not recommend to others. i played for several hours after i got but after that, did 
 not really play anymore. obviously best pingpang game out there anyway. gameplay is alright, sound 
 is not good. overall, not worth the money. would not recommend to others. i played for several 
 hours after i got but after that, did not really play anymore. obviously best pingpang game out 
 there anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ieatredclay
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  The origin of this game probably began in a bar somewhere, and might have gone a little like this.
 
  Rockstar Developer: Man, at Rockstar we can do anything.
  Barmate: No Way Man, I don't think you can i bet that you'll fail pretty soon.
  Rockstar Developer: 
 You don't know what you're talking about. We could make any game we wanted.
  Barmate: Oh yeh, prove it then. make a game about... Begins to pass out... Ping Pong.
  Rockstar 
 Developer: You got it. We're effing Rockstar we can do anything and do it to its awesomnistic peak... passes 
 out.
  
  When I heard that Rockstar was producing a table tennis game, I was shocked to say the least. I 
 never expected the House That Grand Theft Auto Built to go with a game like table tennis. I figured 
 that there would be some twist, something other than a straight up table tennis game. However, 
 I was wrong  and Rockstar has pulled off the major departure from anything they have ever produced 
 with style while leaving room for improvement in the future.
  
  First things first  the game is not deep at all. There is no career mode. No story mode. No sort 
 of mode that will last for even a few days. Theres exhibition where you can play a single game, 
 tournament mode where you play a series of games and training. All of the single player options 
 are just more games. Sure, you can unlock more players, but it is a very simplistic set of games 
 with nothing much to strive for after youve managed to unlock everything.
  
  If the single player isnt too great, though, what is the purpose of playing? Simple  multiplayer 
 is what this game was made for. Whether you choose to play with a friend locally, over XBOX Live 
 with that friend or against a random opponent in a ranked game, Table Tennis truly shines in the 
 multiplayer arena. I took the game online, XBOX Live performance is nothing short of awesome. I 
 played for about an hour and I had no real connection issues. The game never got jumpy or laggy. 
 At times I wouldnt see the others hit animation  that wasnt a huge issue, though, as the ball 
 kept moving as if it was hit just like normal. The only major issue that I did have with the online 
 game was that it didnt seem there was a way to have a rematch. I played a single game and then 
 I had to invite my opponent back for another. In all, the issues with XBOX Live are far outweighed 
 by the good.
  
  See, Table Tennis is all about reaction time and not being horribly out of place. The ball gets 
 hit, you react and smack it back with the same type of spin that it was sent at you with. Or, alternatively, 
 you can send it back with a different type of spin in an attempt to throw your opponent off guard. 
 Swing too early or late and you may pop the ball up, giving the person across the table the chance 
 to smash the ball back to you.
  
  None of these controls are hard to pick up on either. A button puts topspin on the ball, Y does 
 backspin, B is a right-spin while X is a left. You can actually combine these buttons to make a 
 top-right spin, too. If youd prefer, you can use the right thumbstick to hit the ball and perform 
 the different spin types.
  
  Aiming your shot is also easy  while holding a spin button, simply push the thumbstick in the 
 direction you want to aim. Push too far, though, and the controller will vibrate heavily. You can 
 correct this if you havent hit the ball yet, though. Hitting the Left bumper will also hit the 
 shot softer, dropping it near the net on the opponents side (or, if you arent careful, on your 
 side of the net) . In all, the control scheme is incredibly easy to learn but has enough depth to 
 it to make games interesting.
  
  Table Tennis also has another big plus  the graphics are excellent. Each character model is animated 
 very smoothly as are their clothes. The textures are incredible as are the environments. The effect 
 that you get when both players start doing really well is neat, too  the whole arena goes black 
 and focuses on just the action. Small touches help the graphics, too  the color around the ball, 
 for example, tells you what kind of spin was put on it. The net reacts the right way to the ball 
 hitting it. Overall, Rockstar paid close attention to detail with the graphics.
  
  That attention didnt stop there, though. The sounds are definitely what you would expect and truly 
 sound authentic. Seriously  go get a buddy and play ping-pong for awhile. Then come and play Table 
 Tennis. If you hit the ball soft, it makes a soft sound. Smash it, and it sounds like the ball 
 nearly breaks with the impact. When you hit the net, the ball makes an appropriate sound there, 
 too. There really isnt a word for the sound, though  you need to hear it to get the differences. 
 Lets just say that anyone who has played a real game of ping-pong will appreciate the authenticity 
 in the sound.
  
  Rockstar Presents Table Tennis is a very hard game to come down with a final judgement on. On one 
 hand, you have a game missing the most vital element of any sports game  the career mode. On the 
 other hand, Rockstar has put together a game with great graphics and sound, excellent ball physics 
 and incredible multiplayer options. All of this comes wrapped up in a package that retails for 
 $19.99. Overall, I definitely enjoyed this experiment from Rockstar. As it stands now, Table Tennis 
 is THE game to pick up to play with your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game when it comes to graphics. Not to many things in this game are great but 
 hey, it looks good. I like some of R* other games better but this is just a test game. the controls 
 are good but I kinda feel disappointed about this coming from R*. I was expecting something like 
 Manhunt, The Warriors, or GTA. This is a true next gen game but there is not enough to do in this 
 game. The good thing is its only 40 dollers. The online is great but nothing like Gears because 
 theres no guns. Give this a try. I love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valizotha
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis is a game that really shouldn't be missed, it has incredible 
 graphics and gameplay worth the 40 bucks!
  
  The game has a series of tournaments that get harder every time, the last tournament is near impossible; 
 but with perseverance and about 2 months practice, you can beat it...
  
  The graphics are actually very impressive, the player's expressions are very detailed, you can 
 also see each and every drop of sweat on the character's body.
  
  The one thing that this game is missing is that you can't create your own player and there is no 
 Career mode, but that aside, this game is truly worth a while... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sevenus
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  This is a great game. In part it goes right back to console fundamentals - a simple idea that is 
 addictive, challenging and rewarding. However, added to that are the some of the best real-world 
 physics I've seen in anything, combined with graphics that don't stutter and lush dynamic lighting. 
 For Rock Star to have produced this little gem is a fact rated highly surreal, but as it works 
 (unlike a cock flavoured lollipop) then you can see their thinking. At heart Table Tennis is something 
 torn from the gaming id, yet it holds more interest than a dozen hyped FPS that aim to drag you 
 in and keep you pumping the buttons. Forget the majority of the games you thought would be great 
 but let you down terribley. This is addictive, Challenging and never fails to impress. Get online 
 and challenge the world.
  
  More, please, but maybe Crown Green Bowling next time ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LEGOslayer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas. Though I haven't played it as much as other games, I've played quite 
 a bit, and found it really fun.
  
  You can't do much better as far as gameplay goes, beautiful movement and quick response. Also, 
 an easy learning button system that doesn't disappoint. My only beef is that if you stray too far 
 from the table you have no chance of winning the round.
  
  Visually, its great, the player models look fantastic, but are brought down by drab environments 
 and arenas. I hope this is how the people in Grand Theft Auto 4 look like.
  
  It sounds nice, with a responsive crowd and realistic noises of the ping pong ball getting smacked 
 around by the paddles. Even though its not that hard to find any problems seeing as its the same 
 noise.
  
  A great party game means great replay value, and as long as you have a friend that doesn't have 
 a sore thumb from playing, it is an enjoyable experience. Overall it was a great game, but not 
 immersive enough for the hardcore gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hijij_ep
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  The first time i rented this game was around three weeks ago, i noticed it because me and my family 
 are into table tennis allot and we wanted to see if this game delivers, and yes it DOES. just as 
 Game Spot said by limiting the game play almost exclusively to intense singles battles (not exactly 
 quoted, but close) , this game is just filled with hours of intense table tennis for all to enjoy 
 and get in on. just as a famous philosopher once said, the simplest solution is probably the best 
 one, the same applies here. All you do is play in singles battles and it is outrageously fun!!. 
 character models COMPLETELY caught me off guard because this game was published and developed by 
 Rockstar games, who previously were not known for their stunning graphics within their games, this 
 completely changes my opinion of their graphical capabilities. they are aw inspiring with outrageous 
 detail on the movement of their shirts and the animation of the characters. it would have been 
 interesting to see how they would have thrown doubles into this, but we can't get everything we 
 want, if we could i would never have to work a day in my life, but i'll just have to settle with 
 this fantastically simple game with great graphics and actually a surprisingly good choice of sound 
 for the game. the sound is hard to describe, however if you rent or buy this game, you'll see what 
 i mean ,unless you hate techno : ( . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dattylawnglaygz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2007 3:12 am PT
Review:  For starters, let me begin by saying that this game has no flaws what so ever. Rockstar has outdid 
 themselves yet again with a this surprisingly fresh game. From the time I put it in the xbox 360 
 I've only stopped for a little sleep, sex, some food and bodily functions feel me, get what i'm 
 saying now? A lot of people are sleeping on this game not even knowing what there missing out on. 
 Next time you have the chance buy it or rent it you won't be sorry. One of the FUNNEST games on 
 the xbox 360 system hands down!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pirate-monkey
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  we were both Lu Ping and both really drunk. and i kicked his ass!!! good times! the controls were 
 really easy to grasp for first time users. and seeing as we were drunk, i dunno, i guess that makes 
 them the easiest controls in the world!
  the graphics were decent.
  the audio was good - from memory the commentators were pretty funny.
  value for money - i know 
 a few people who got this as their first game when there wasn't that much of a 360 library out 
 there. i can't see too many people buying now though, unless they have all the other top 10 games. 
 it's not the sort of game i would buy (my friend owns it) , but i'd play it again as it was a good 
 laugh!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  If I was to say 'We all love Grand Theft Auto' that probably would not be true. Whether you dislike 
 the vulgar content, can't stand the game-play, or just don't like games that revolutionize their 
 genre, you can't deny the hard facts that speak louder than words: Grand Theft Auto has sold more 
 copies than any other game in the history of the industry. It's the #1 selling Playstation game 
 and the #2 selling XBOX game behind Halo. Now, on the other side of the spectrum, you might like 
 GTA, so you already know this and probably have heard it time and time again. But what does this 
 have to do with Table Tennis? Everything. The reason GTA San Andreas won game of the year (MTV 
 Game Awards, Stuff Magazine, Electronic Gaming Monthly) is not because some banana eating monkies 
 created it, it's because Rockstar simply knows how to make games that demand attention within their 
 genre. They did not (unlike TrueCrime, Getaway, 25 to Life, 50 Cent) make their game drawing from 
 the competition, that made it from scratch, every single time. So just like the award winning GTA, 
 Table Tennis is made with original Rockstar substance that makes it a kick a$$ game. Since i have 
 special boxes to tell you about each different feature of the game, let's talk about the little 
 details that make this game great. First of all, the frame rate. I don't know if Rockstar developed 
 a new game engine just for the 360 or for this game, but it is superb. Of coarse, this game is 
 no unicorn, so it will have minor glitches at times, but that could be due to excessive heat from 
 the 360 (I recommend the Nyko intercooler if you don't have one. My 360 hasn't froze once since 
 I bought it) . If you've played the game, how do you like the ability to push pause while the automatic 
 replay is going and then come out of the menu with the replay right where you left it?! That really 
 isn't that big, but in any other sports game, when you push pause, it ends the replay right then. 
 This is cool because you can pause the game, call your friend in to see your awesome play, and 
 then start the replay where your paused it. Another excellent feature Rockstar really makes use 
 of is the actual game-play itself. It's difficult to learn, but easy to use once you've got it 
 down. It's extremely user friendly and matches the style of game perfectly. One more thing i want 
 to talk about. The physics. They must have called in some real life Rainmen to do this one because 
 it resembles the actual sports almost to a tee. It might possibly be the best sports game ever 
 when it comes down to the actual comparison of life to the gameplay replica. You can direct the 
 ball close, far, right or left. You can charge your swings for more power and spin. You can use 
 the focus system for must execute swings and you can use the soft hit button to fool your opponent. 
 Even more, you have color coordination to know exactly what your opponent is doing (EX. blue=left 
 spin) and you have an automatic smash feature when your opponent hits it high. The only reason 
 it's not a 10 because it does have some problems with the A. I. (once a match or so) and you can't 
 move your person as fast as you'd like. All games have faults though and this game has fewer than 
 most. These are the games that will help Microsoft prevail against Sony in this upcoming Console 
 War, even if Rockstar is Sony's #1 asset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnathug
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Rockstar Presents Table Tennis was released last may and surprised a lot of people. From a company 
 that brings car explotions and guns, Rockstar tries to bring a little white ball to the next generation 
 and I'l let you know now they made one hell of a good table tennis game.
  
  Gameplay is simple, two players, one table and one little white ball. This is it, You say? Nope, 
 while the design of the game is sappost to be simple and lets you pick up and play ping pong. It's 
 not that hard to learn, but as soon as you do know the controles you learn even more about what 
 you can do. Do to hit the ball you have the 4 buttons or the the analog (A = Foreward Spin, B = 
 Right Spin, Y = Back Spin and X for left spin) . I find myself using the buttons but I could see 
 myself getting used to the analog, it reminds me of the Skill stick from NHL 07 cause you want 
 left spin on the ball all you have to do is move the right analog to the left. While the right 
 analog controls spins the other controls where you want your shot to be. Now you wouldn think that 
 this would be hard but with rumble you can tell when your shot will miss the table or just hit 
 the corner. It comes with a career mode that is something else. It is really hard, you have to 
 have skill to beat pass the last two tournaments and their skill is really hard.
  
  Graphics are really good. In full HD the sweat, the paddles, the faces, the body models are very 
 well drawn. They took their time and you can tell. The replays seriously look like two people playing 
 ping pong and motion blue is also good as well.
  
  Sound was a surprise. You can't believe how real the ping pong sounds as it criss crosses the net. 
 The smashes and all of those sounds are right on the button. The music is also good and the way 
 they put it in is also creative. As you rally as your rally keeps up there the music just comes 
 out of no where and pumps up the situation ever more. Very good
  
  Online needs work but still has tournaments that you can compete in. While the competition online 
 is really hard and I saw myself losing several games in a row, but winning the odd one. Ranked 
 and Unranked matches online are fun but limited to only those two.
  
  In conclusion, while the skill is very high for this game it is still fun to sit down with a friend 
 and play matches and try to get further in career. I would give it a try because at first I was 
 50-50 about it but after playing it, it changed just because how good it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lavantas
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Ever heard of the old adage, don't judge a book by it's cover? Well, the game Table Tennis by Rockstar 
 falls into that category perfectly. Table tennis is probably one of those sports that's you can 
 find once every four years on TV, during the Summer Olympics. Most people think of table tennis (ping 
 pong) as a watered down version of tennis for the physically challenged. However, if you've ever 
 played table tennis with your buddies at college, you'll know that it's anything but that.
  
  Rockstar's Table Tennis is truely a gem, and a steal, at $19.99 from Best Buy. On the surface, 
 the game is simple to learn. You have 4 spins and the left stick controls the movement of the player 
 and the direction of the shot. If you're a complete newbie to table tennis, repeatly mashing the 
 A button while moving your character to the ping pong ball will be enough to win you the easy exibitions. 
 However, like most fun sports, the game is simple to learn, and incredibly difficult to master. 
 You have hybrid spins that combines two spins, soft shots that will instantly change the tempo 
 of the game, and focused shots which carries an enormous amount of speed.
  
  This game is amazingly fun, and incredibly fast paced. Exciting exchanges can happen 2-3 times 
 in one second in the more difficult matches, and your reaction speed will be tested. I haven't 
 been able to play this game for more than 45 minutes at a time due to the intense concentration 
 required to beat the harder matches. If you're looking for an easy pick up game that won't put 
 a dent in your pockets, pick up this gem. Unless you're the type of person that absolutely hates 
 fun and has reflexes of a kaola, this game shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josenbaugh
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  Ok I picked this one up with more than just a little skepticism. I was thinking nobody takes table 
 tennis seriously (except the table tennis olympiads of course and noone takes them seriously) . 
 I did, however, need a game that would entertain my wife and allow me to play side by side with 
 her in order to get her more intrested in video games! I popped it in the drive and was thinking 
 the graphics are pretty decent and the sound of the ball is pretty authentic (how hard is it to 
 recreate that sound though, honestly) The single player is fun with many achievements to unlock 
 that will keep you trying. The game offers more of a challenge as you get further and further into 
 the tournaments and offers enough new items when you unlock to keep you trying harder. The multiplayer, 
 as with any good game, is what it is really all about. When playing with my wife she started to 
 get the hang of it and before I knew it she was pretty skilled. The game was actually starting 
 to get intense with slams etc. We played until nearly 4:30. I was very suprised as to how much 
 I have enjoyed the game!
  If you are looking for a game that you can play multiplayer with someone who is not into the shoot 
 em up's, Madden or other sports games , this could quite possibly be the game to get. I say give 
 this one a shot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 43n1m4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The first time I heard about this game, I thought it was a joke. The idea of Rockstar Games making 
 a Table Tennis simulator seemed like the equivalent of Jim Carrey starring Schindlers List II.
 
  
  But soon after you insert the game disc, it becomes apparent that Rockstar made much more than 
 a half-hearted effort... This is actually close to one of the best sports games I have ever played. 
 There are many reasons to this, but one of the most important is the absolutely superb controls.
 
  After you've mastered the basic shots, and moved on to the more complex tactics (Like which kind 
 of spin should I use?) the game opens up and becomes as engaging and fast as the real thing.
  
  Add to the experience the great sound, realistic physics, fluid and convincing animations and 
 absolutely fantastic player models - and you have on of those games, that you can play with a friend 
 all night.
  
  If there's something to criticize, it must be the lack of single player options - and a real SP 
 career mode wouldn't hurt. But thats something they could fix in a possible sequel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creamyboy1325
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  I just bought this game and have been playing it for about 10 hours now and I am still having fun 
 with it which is a surprise to me. I initially waited on buying this game because I thought it 
 would be one of those games that gets old after a few hours of playing it. But I found that playing 
 with and against different opponents gives you a lot of replay-ability. That said you are going 
 to have to like the basic game play and enjoy playing with more that one character to get any replay-ability 
 out of this game. The graphics are very good looking in this game and there is very limited choppy 
 animations. The one knock that this game does have ist that the sound and menus are fairly generic 
 and the music can become very annoying and dull. There is a good variety of achievements to unlock 
 that will take a fair amount of time to unlock all of them. This is nice to see since many games 
 either have all easy achievements or all hard achievements. If you are looking for a fun fast place 
 tennis game try this before you would buy any other tennis game. It's only 20 bucks and you can't 
 go wrong for that price with a 360 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  I think this is such a good game when i got it i thought oh its table tennis its not gonna be to 
 great untill i played it round my cuzens and got addicted to it it is a great game and i think 
 it is challenging when is good because im always up for a challenge and this is defently a challenge 
 when you get into rookie circuit and higher.
  even the online is good fun so if you like table tennis and u dont think you will like this game 
 much try it on a demo if you have box live its so worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drake2metal
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  first of i am a huge fan on table tennis and play it whenever i can, so if your like me and love 
 ping pong then i think u will love this game. The game itself has great graphics, great competition, 
 good gameplay, and good sound. A couple of the only things i hated about this game was there was 
 no career mode, no create a player, and no doubles matches, but all and all this game is probably 
 one of my favorite sports games on the xbox 360, so if you have read my review then u will not 
 need to read anymore reviews about people saying this game sucks because it doesn't.... the only 
 people who thinks this game sucks are people who hate table tennis, so that means this game was 
 not made for them.... it is made for people who want a affordable sports game with the most intense 
 competition than any other game out on the 360.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: menduco76
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is very simple, but it can provide many hours of fun if you actually try to get the achievements 
 for it since the achievements are designed to make you want to get better. The character models 
 look AWESOME (especially when using the character viewer) , and the graphics in general are actually 
 quite good. The gameplay mechanics are intuitive and fun, and playing on XBOX live can be really 
 great and challenging. The only problem with this game when it comes to xbox live is that apparently 
 not many people have bought this game, and there are times when it can take a while to get a match 
 set up. But all in all, VERY worth the money and very fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360_4_lyf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  rockstar table tennis is a great next gen game . It is awsome for casual gamers and gamers new 
 to the family of xbox 360 table tennis was my 15th game and i only brought it 4 days ago and i 
 think it starts of difficulty wen u get to jesper on the rookie tornoment . well moving on rockstar 
 producers have spent alot of time producing this game and the grathics are out standing i reli 
 think they could have the best graffics on the xbox 360 becuz the details on the players faces 
 just blows my mind away.
  
  With the realse of rockstar table tannis to just round the corner i think they could of done lots 
 more to improve it such as choise of bat and more selection of tables players and a new create 
 your own player mode that would make table tennis make gears of war , call of duty , oblivion ,dead 
 rising , goold , footie and all the games in the world look like a pile of dog **** intill gears 
 of war 2 comes out
  
  thanks for read and bye and play table tennis safe gamertag : c13ran 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamegod
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  To be honest, this wouldnt be a game id usually buy, but it came with my xbox 360 package, so it only 
 made sence to play it, And its a really cool game.
  
  Graphics - they're decent enough, though, the chracter models seem to be over used a bit, and the 
 surfaces seem rather shiney, but all in all, the graphics are nice and easy on the eyes, it also gives 
 you a good feel of the speed and pace of the game.
  
  Sound - Meh, well how much can you expect, when all your doing is hitting a little tiny ball around 
 a table, i guess it would be right up there if you took into account the sound of the ball bouncing 
 lol... other than that, the crowds do make noises, but once you've heard them for an hour, it gets 
 old.
  
  Gameplay - is fast and furious, some of the later opponents you take on, are so damn fast, you'll 
 struggle to keep up with it, but that just makes it even more fun and rewarding while playing it, the 
 controls can be a bit fiddly at times, but nothing you won't get used to.
  
  All in all, this is a pretty decent game, i cant really reccomend buying this game, cos' it doesnt 
 offer much more than different attire and arena's for new characters, but rent it out, have a mate 
 over, and play two player, itll be a laugh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphics, ultra-realistic depiction of Table Tennis, solid online play, easy 
 to pick up and play.
  
  The Bad: It's more complex than you'd think, some of the achievements are tough to earn, lean on 
 features.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  At first sight, one might wonder why in the world Rockstar Games, the developers of Grand Theft 
 Auto and Bully, made a Table Tennis sim game. The thing most people don't realize is how good this 
 game actually is.
  
  The suprising thing is, this is by far the most realistic depiction of an actual sport ever made. 
 I know, that sounds pathetic about a sport like that, but it's the truth. The game has two modes: 
 Single-Player Tournament and Online Match.
  
  The Single Player Tournament is the best place to go for a newcomer to the game. It features a 
 substantial tutorial, that will give you an achievement if you perfect all aspects of it, then 
 it let's you face off against A. I. controled Table Tennis players from all over the world. Pick 
 your character, then play ball! You must learn all of the spin techniques as well as the power 
 moves before heading online, though, and single player is a great place to practice those moves.
 
  
  The online mode is pretty well done as well. It features all the standard matchmaking features 
 of other Xbox Live enabled games, but it also allows you to just watch another person's game, which 
 is a nice, relaxing option.
  
  The graphics are simply outstanding. It is clearly one of the best looking 360 games, especially 
 when it comes to character modeling. The sound effects also are super-realistic and very well done.
 
  
  Rockstar really pulled off the real deal in Table Tennis sims with this game. There isn't any Hot 
 Coffee, but this family friendly game is a blast to play, even though there aren't many modes to 
 choose from. Overall, I'd recomend picking this game up for $30 or less. You'll be glad you did.
 
  
  Gameplay: Ultra-realistic ping pong sim gameplay is really good, but it won't keep your intrest 
 for weeks or even hours on end.
  
  Graphics: Outstanding visuals. Some of the best the 360 has to offer.
  
  Sound: Stellar sound 
 effects add a lot to the gameplay as well.
  
  Value: You can find this game for around $30. It's worth purchasing at that price, but you may 
 want to think twice at anything much higher.
  
  Final Thoughts: Who'd a thunk this would be a great sports game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked this up I was a little sceptical. I had heard great comments about it, but 
 it's table tennis, so I was expecting litlle more than a HD pong with the option of a straight 
 shot, lob or smash.
  
  Rockstar have indeed given us a tilte which I have found easy enough to pick up and play straight 
 off the mark, but is also complex enough to get me to comeback so that I can work on the little 
 things that make it so great.
  
  The dual joystick controls offer me something I found a lot of enjoyment in. Desiganating my shot 
 from the right stick, I find, is a lot easier that using the buttons and allows me to make those 
 quick decisions in a timely manner.
  
  The incorporation of control over shot placement and various spin (and counter-spin) options have 
 added a much appreciated depth to this game that will see it get repeat useage from me.
  
  I picked it up at the bargain price of AU$40 too, so it's nothing but a great game at a great price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad4gamez
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Briefly... What's there to say, it's Ping Pong! Leave it to Rockstar to come up with something 
 like this and I must say it's so worth it, especially now at the reduced price.
  
  Bottom line, Graphics are awesome, very noticably smooth on HD; sound is terrific and incredibly 
 helpful in motivating a win. Love the character movements, such as a the quick snaps, very true 
 to the real game. The only thing it lacks is the non-existent create-a-player. Would've given Value 
 a 9, if included.
  
  For what it's worth, this is without a doubt, worth a permanent spot on the shelf for 360 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 6, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Who would of guessed that Rockstar's first next-gen game would be about table tennis. That's right, 
 no gangsters, drugs or sex to be found here, just some table tennis.
  
  Gameplay: It's good fors the most part. It's simple and good pick up and play. However it becomes 
 repetetive and boring and soon becomes pretty uninteresting.
  
  Graphics: There's no denyiong that the graphics are superb, the player models look fantastic. If 
 GTA IV looks like this, I'll be very, very happy.
  
  Sund: Good music to build up the tempo and some basic sound effects, overall nothing special.
 
  
  Value: Where it falls flat on its face. Exhibition, tournaments, some unlockbes and some crappy 
 online stuff. Nothing else.
  
  Overall not great. Gets old and boring quickly and I'll be trading it in soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savagethumper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This is the first pick up and play game that I've had on the 360. It takes only about 15 minutes 
 to learn the tricks of the game. I guess, since Tetris, or the original Pong , that there hasn't 
 been such a simple to play, and fun game like this. If your into career modes, then you'll be dissapointed, 
 but that's the only part of this game that dissapoints. You can get additional clothes, but your 
 character (as far as I know) doesn't upgrade his or her stats. Maybe that'll be a additional feature 
 on the next version. Another plus to this game, is the price. Most new and used copies are well 
 under $20-30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRIPPL312
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I didnt think this game would be that fun even after all the reviews i read on this game but it 
 still shocked me when i started playing. This game is especially fun when you play with friends, 
 not so much with xbox live. the game i pretty evenly paced and very realistic. The character models 
 were suprisingly well done but the courts all seemed the same to me other than the different colored 
 tables. The gane does get challenging in the later parts of the single player so its not a walk 
 in the park like other sims. You can get creative once you get all the types of spins down and 
 master your aim. That is what i think makes this game stand out a little more, Its a simple game 
 with not very much player interaction but it pulls it off by being just old school fun. and for 
 the price this game is selling for its a real steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Table Tennis is a visually stunning and beautiful game, that lacks in gameplay. TT is fairly fun 
 for about the first volley, if it last for more than one hit, but other than that the game pretty 
 much gives up. The game has somewhat of a fun multiplayer mode, that can be sort of amusing but 
 not really. Without a career mode or a create a character mode this game is completely lacking. 
 TT has a tournament mode that isn't very exciting and is really disappointing. The few good parts 
 of the game are the ability to put various spins on the ball and change speeds/power for each shot. 
 The gameplay for TT is just plain disappointing and really makes the game not worth renting. The 
 graphics for TT are gorgeous and almost unbelievable. Though a game cant survive on just graphics, 
 decent sound effects and mediocre gameplay. So unfortunately I'm going to have to tell all of our 
 viewers to save their money and their time by leaving this game on the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobisgod
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Rockstar Games has made a table tennis game which makes players feel like a pro. It looks real, 
 feels real, and couldn't be any more real! Music as the rally picks up speed is great, training 
 for mastering the game is useful, and a few unlockables are always welcome. For table tennis fans, 
 it is reccomended, and for gamers it is plain fun. A lack of create a player and career mode does 
 drop its value, but if there is a sequel and those are included, the game would be a must buy. 
 Doubles would be nice two, but easy to defend and hard to attack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick917
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Table Tennis is the sort of game that I have always thought should be played in real life and has 
 no potential to be a great computer game. However the Rockstar San Diego team have proved that 
 just about anything can be turned into a great game when time is taken on it. The games positive 
 points include its top notch graphics, intense one-on-one game play and various unlockables. However 
 I think that a few essential features are missing from this game, such as create a character mode 
 and a longer tournament mode (maybe with cutscenes - don't ask me why!) . Other than that though 
 the game is definitely worth a place in every xbox 360 owners collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCaveRat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, I would even say it's great, if you have XBL or someone else to play with. 
 Gameplay is probably as good as it can get for this kind of game. Shots are easy enough to pull 
 off, which is great. However the game can move a little slow at times, not like framerate, but 
 when you start a championship and the opponent is easy, your basically just waiting to get to the 
 next guy.
  
  Soundtrack is very good, which is about as much as I can say about sound. What other sounds can 
 you expect from a table tennis game besides the smacking of the ping pong ball (I'm not going to 
 mark down for that) .
  
  Graphics are fine, the players look very good, but like most games, couldn't they make the audience 
 look halfway decent?
  
  (Also I'm going to put the difficulty in hard because it does get hard, but it really does vary) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Table Tennis is a great game for novice gamers. If you want to get your family together to play 
 it pretty easy for just about any one to get going. I have been able to get through the first ranking 
 without too much trouble. Jesper's power makes it possible to beat anyone without too much effort.
 
  
  The graphics are very smooth, almost flawless in HD. But the game play is pretty basic, the music 
 is cheesy and unless you are playing a live person it gets boring fast.
  
  Rent before you buy. If you buy play it with others to make it exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iTcaL
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo, i realized that this was a game worth getting. A sports game that doesnt 
 need to get updated every year to refresh a roster.
  
  I just started playing this game and it is just fun and highly addicting. The graphics of each 
 character looks really great and the gameplay is smooth. It is really challenging as i found myself 
 owning the first rounds of the tournements and then getting owned in the championship rounds. I 
 think its a little too challenging sometimes as the computert returns a lot and spikes the ball 
 down your throat.
  
  Being a fan of fast paced games and tournements, this is for you. However the single player isnt 
 that great because its too repetitive and its hard to find a multiplayer match since gears of war 
 and Rainbow six are hogging all the accounts. Still a worthy game though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parker626
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game is pretty enjoyable, if you can control yourself. I believe I am shortly going 
 to give up on this game simply because it pisses me off just a little too much. The graphics are 
 amazing, the tables are great, the speed is really good, and the tournaments are pretty fun. What 
 is wrong with this game, in my opinion, you ask? The same thing that is wrong with any type of 
 tennis game they have ever put out. The same thing that will always be wrong in any type of tennis 
 game the industry puts out (except maybe for the Wii?) . There will be too many times that it will 
 piss you off that your reaction time is not matched by the player you are controlling. There are 
 times when you know where the ball is going to be hit, anticipate it, and your character fails 
 to get over there. That will piss you off. It pisses me off. If WILL piss you off. Hey, but let's 
 not take that away from the game. Most of the gameplay is phenomenal. If you can stand the heartache 
 of your character being a complete moron at times with the reaction time of a blind guy, then you 
 will also enjoy this game. All in all it is a good game, worth the low price it sits at now, so 
 if you have free time, want to try something new, and don't mind playing the same concept over 
 and over, then pick this game up and enjoy the festivities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanleyHandyman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar's table Tennis is a nice twist on tennis games. Although it may look like a shallow game 
 that should have been released in the Xbox Live Arcade, Table Tennis delievers a surprisingly rock 
 solid experience.
  
  Gameplay
  Good: Extremly well constructed, perdect simulation of table tennis, often intense action, well 
 balanced difficulty in the game as well as the acheivements
  Bad: Only one playing mode
  
  Graphics
  Good: Best looking charachter models since Fight Night Round 3, solid frame rate, 
 great effects for focus.
  Bad: Enviroments aren't as nice looking as the charecters
  
  Sound
  Good: Each player has their own theme music, when things get intense the crowd does too
 
  Bad: No variety in the music (its all techno) , charechters could have used a little more dialouge
 
  
  Value
  While Table Tennis provides an enjoyable experience it still provides an unexpectedly long experience 
 provided you don't give up when it gets tough. Beating all the circuits will take you a a while 
 ,but the game really shines in multiplayer whether online or off. Extremely fun to set up mini 
 tournaments with friends.
  
  Overall
  Table Tennis may seem like a shallow game but is actually one of the games welcome surprises. Table 
 Tennis is not only fun for one person as it is for a party. Table Tennis is just a game you shouldn't 
 miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icthereed
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Whats there to say about this game... Well its a very good table tennis game... this table tennis 
 game does a lot of cool things.... you can direct the ball ( wich would be retarded if you coulden) 
 and you can but different types of spin on the ball wich keeps the gameplay fast and exciting... 
 there also a focus mode to where youll hit the ball faster and quicker.... throwing your oppenent 
 off.... theres a tournement mode wich is good... But there is no campaighn or create a character 
 mode wich is kind of dissapionting... Xbox live is where this game truly shines.... Its deffinatly 
 more fun playing against a real player even though there is some lag at times... it comes down 
 to this you like table tennis then give this game a shot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  I brought this one when it first came out for my Son, had a brief look at it but instantly took 
 a dislike to it, probably more for it's sport-sim feel than anything else.
  
  Anyway I was watching Jack play the thing and thought perhaps it isn't that bad so had a few hours 
 on it last night and is itsn't that bad a game, a very good one infact. Personally I still hate 
 it (in a 'Love', 'Hate' kinda way) but more because I am crap at it than anything else (getting 
 better though) .
  
  If you have given this one a test drive may be worth a rental but don't be fooled by what appears 
 to be a kiddie game this is a serious sports sim and to get anything from it you need to play is 
 seriously 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miiiguel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  I played the 'real' game for real and quite seriously, a few years ago. Then life takes its turns, 
 and guy do what he got to do.
  So I was anxious to try this game, for the reason described above, and also because it's from those 
 hip-cool dudes from RockStar. I wasn't disappointed!
  The game takes a minimalistic approach of Table-Tennis. It does nothing else then simulate the 
 game. No career mode, no customizations, no unlockable arenas, nothing - it's the game by itself. 
 A bold move from RockStar, as it could backfired, if the simulation wasn't so darn good!
  In the graphics departnment the game absolutly amazes, it breathes next-gen from every single bit. 
 The cloth movement from the t-shirts, the ball movement, the net, the sneekers, everything.
  The sound has two components, the in-game, wich, well, it's very minimalistic, but this is table 
 tennis, only sound you hear is the ball on the table, and the squeeching fro the sneekers on the 
 floor, and to be honest, although not an amazong diffcult task to achieve, it's perfect - can't 
 do better, no one!; and the illustrating music, and in this part RockStar show its style. This 
 guys have good taste. The music is oftenly ambient, or light-techno, and classy electro, very, 
 very, good-taste.
  Multi-player plays almost lagless every-time, and is quite, quite fun. It has a slight problem 
 though, as every one-on-one MP game, is that sometimes people get too annoyed from losing and, 
 well, they send nasty messages and such, well..., that's just the way it is...
  As a final note I say this game is a must buy for every 360 owner, it treats the game with respect, 
 it's classy, it has good-looks, it plays well with friends, and it's quite competitive.
  They could have added a career mode, that would be great, but RockStar were aware of that and put 
 the price tag below normal retail games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 5, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This game's been out for awhile, but I was a little hesitant to play it. I mean, come on! Table 
 tennis? AKA ping pong. How can that be a fun video game. Well, let me tell you, it really is!
 
  
  Single player is great, although there aren't many modes to play. The opponents you face are very 
 very difficult, and are extremely intellegent. Not just mindless zombies who hit random shots, 
 they really do make intellegent moves. It's a nice change, and it adds a lot of difficulty to the 
 game.
  
  As for how the game actually plays, it plays great. Simple yet deep describes this perfectly. Essentially, 
 you use all four main buttons to make top spin shots (A) left spin (X) right spin (B) and backspin 
 shots (Y) . You use the left stick to move around and direct your shots. Also, you use the left 
 bumper to hit a soft shot and use the right bumper to hit focus shots (highly accurate shots that 
 can save you against tough volleys) . It's a great system, innovative, and requires skill to pull 
 off.
  
  Other than unlocking single player achievements, there is online. However, not many people play 
 online, which is unfortunate, so it's unlikely you'll get some of the thougher online achievements.
 
  
  Also, the graphics are awesome. Best character models I've seen. Also, the music is very good, 
 techno sort of music.
  
  Overall, the game is great. It's a good price. The only downside I see is that online is poor due 
 to a lack of players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_rudiger
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 12:41 am PT
Review:  When i first played this i was blown away, fantastic graphics, excellent gamepaly i couldnt believe 
 it. at first i was sceptical as i thought it would be limited, after playing the tutorials i was 
 highly impressed the game has blown me away and ha me hooked now. who would of thought a simple 
 game like table tennis could draw you into its amazing game play. i shake rockstars hand firmly 
 and say keep up the great work and lets hope there will be a sequal some time soon. the other thing 
 that impressed me is the ease to pick it up and play , it take about ten minutes to get the hang 
 of it and your away. top marks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Mazing-D
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  I love this game. I love playing ping pong or table tennis in real life, actually I play it about 
 4 times a week. I love it. This game makes me feel like I am really playing table tennis in my 
 basement. It has very good graphics, good sound, and it is a must get if you like tennis, ping 
 pong or want an amazing game in your Xbox 360 collection. You can do so many things in this game, 
 like make your own character and all. Take him to face the best known ping pong or table tennis 
 players known. You should def. at least rent this game so you can see what you won't be missing 
 out on. So, if you like tennis, ping pong/table tennis, please I really advise you to get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMuffin_man
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Whats there to say it succesfully captures the table tennis gameplay. So if you dont 
 have a table tennis table . then theres lots of action in this game to keep you on your feet graphics- 
 Good graphics. The player models look absoulutley great. But the enviroment and other objects look 
 good . But theres no wow factor to them
  
  sound- I guess it captures good ping pong sound
  
  value- Its has good value. But theres no 
 single player campaighn . And multiplayer is the best part of the game. but not many people are 
 on anymore
  
  tilt- It sucesfully captures the table tennis feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haz_4x4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  I nearly made the bad mistake of buying this game for &pound;29.99 when it first came out and i 
 thought i would take it easy ans rent it and i am glad i did. i personally find this game too hard. 
 the carrer is hard. the online is hard. its just hard! i mean i find it diffuclt to see what my 
 player is doing and the responses i have to admit the graphics are good. but what i noticed is 
 after 15 mins i just got bored and gave up with the game. I would save your money for something 
 which is worth it. i happen to like table tennis in life. but i do think many improvements could 
 of made for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  In Game, www. game. co. uk, you get this game plus PGR3 an Extra Controller and the premium xbox360 
 i. e. 20gb hard rive. all this for &pound;300.
  
  This is great value.
  
  Anyways the game, Rockstar Table Tennis is great fun, multi-player and great online for massing 
 around on the xbox360, if you really can't be arsed with more serious games. its lite, and easy 
 to get into, and the graphics do show well on a good screen.
  
  If you by this game without the package of getting a xbox360, then its hard to think that even 
 i would buy the game. but i like having it anyways. great fun.
  
  KitHooton 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo2paul
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  When table tennis was announced it came to most people as both a shock and a surprise that Rockstar 
 was creating a completely new but original title that was thus far completely astray from what 
 fans have came to expect from the highly acclaimed developer of the Grand Theft Auto series.
  
  Upon your first impressions of Table Tennis, you probably are going to be feeling rather disappointed, 
 as you may at first find that the game has an incredibly punishing learning curve and that the 
 difficulty is far too harsh for beginners to play or even get used to the what appears to be a 
 far to complex system. The thing about Table Tennis is that you need to tutor yourself of how to 
 play the game, there is a fairly in depth tutorial mode that is present which teaches you how to 
 do various shots, but to actually get anywhere with table tennis you need both time and practice. 
 With practice under your belt you will soon get an appreciation of what Table Tennis has to offer 
 and that is one of the most true to life sports games ever created thus far.
  
  The gaming mechanics in Table Tennis are very simple yet very effective, you have four basic shot 
 types, backspin, topspin, and both left and right sidespin, all mapped to the equivalent buttons 
 on the Xbox 360 controller. The amount of strength that you want to apply to a shot is simply done 
 by how long you hold the equivalent button in for, also the longer you hold the button down for 
 also means the more spin and movement the ball will do both in the air and after hitting the table.
 
  
  Also available are the soft shots, simply by holding in the bumpers whilst carefully tapping one 
 of the face buttons on the 360 controller you will carefully place a soft shot just over the net, 
 which can be very effective in long rallies and against players which like to hit the ball with 
 pace as it can either catch your opponent out through them either hitting the ball out of the table 
 or them not expecting the soft shot and simply hitting the ball in the air ready for you to pounce 
 on by slamming it into the corners of there half.
  
  One of the most interesting elements with gaming mechanics in Table Tennis is how you recognise 
 the type of shot either you or your opponent has played. After hitting the ball it is followed 
 by either a yellow, red, green or blue tracer indicated by the type of shot that has been played, 
 this is a highly effective system as not only does it help you see how much spin your opponent 
 has put onto the shot through the rotating arrow around the ball, but it helps you with your shot 
 selection through knowing what shot best suits for couterspin. In the harder difficulties this 
 is vital as playing the wrong kind of shot against a certain spin will leave you either hitting 
 the ball into the net, off the table or simply knocking it into the air for your opponent to smash 
 straight back at you.
  
  Also available in your shot selection arsenal are the focus shots, after scoring a certain amount 
 of points against your opponent, a focus metre will begin to accumulate, once this is filled up 
 you hold down the right or left trigger whilst playing a shot, doing so the camera will cut to 
 a close up of you playing the shot also incorporating slow motion. Doing so you will apply both 
 a greater amount of pace and spin on the ball making the opponents shot that much more harder to 
 return. You can also do combo shots that work simply by holding a combination of two different 
 buttons creating a new kind of shot that are highly effective in long rallies as it makes couterspin 
 that much more harder.
  
  Rumble has been supported in Table Tennis and is quite possibly the best use of the feature in 
 a game to date. The way in which the Rumble system works is simple yet effective just like all 
 of the game mechanics in Table Tennis, basically as you aim your shot with the left analogue stick 
 the closer you are to the edge of the table the more the rumble will grow, the more intense the 
 rumble is the closer you are to the edge of the table. The rumble system both acts as a simple 
 yet revolutionary touch to the gaming mechanics, which would be nice to see in tennis games of 
 the future.
  
  One of the games many standouts is its graphics. The player models are beautifully designed and 
 are some of the best in a game yet. Players move and feel distinctly lifelike and react to awkward 
 bounce pace and spin with distinct realism. The players clothes both move and look very realistic 
 and hang loose on there bodys creasing up and folding as they move around, as the players sweat 
 there shirts will begin to show stains which is a nice graphical effect and just adds to realism 
 that Rockstar were aiming for. The environments and stadiums are very well designed and have some 
 nice looking light effects, though both the crowd and the referee's both look distinctly less detailed 
 than the players but overall Table Tennis is a great looking game.
  
  Table Tennis has a fairly decent sound track that fits in appropriately with the game, which is 
 accompanied by some amazing sound effects. The sound track isnt used much throughout the main 
 game but comes into play when a rally is building up which is a nice touch and overall Table Tennis 
 sounds great.
  
  Multiplayer is available for up to two players both offline and online, and though this is fine, 
 a doubles mode would had been nice to have seen appear though two on two is fine. Online Table 
 Tennis supports leader boards and plays from the standard perspective, where as in the offline 
 multiplayer as split screen would have been rather disjointing and near impossible to have achieved, 
 it supports a new top down perspective specifically for offline multiplayer which works well and 
 is relatively easy to get used to.
  
  The main problem with Table Tennis is its lack of features, there is your standard expedition matches 
 where you and a selected player go through a ladder ranking of players until you beat the number 
 one player in that difficulty and move on to the next difficulty, there is a timed tournament mode 
 and finally online support. All the standard features which you would usually see in a sports game 
 such as an in depth career mode or a create a player function that are sadly missing here and would 
 had been greatly appreciated. Achievements are supported and most of them you will get simply by 
 breezing through the expedition mode but some of them do take some hard earned time to get.
  
  There are 11 players in total in Table Tennis and unlike standard sports games in which they 
 all are just different models of a similar playing character, they all play completely different 
 from each other, whether they favour spin, power or are a mixture of both they all have there pros 
 and cons and its up to you to try and test each individual character yourself to see in which one 
 suits best your playing style.
  
  Upon a first play it is easy to criticise Table Tennis, but upon getting used to the games very 
 in depth game mechanics and its incredibly fast paced addictive playing style you get an immense 
 appreciation of what Rockstar games have achieved, and that is possibly the most true to life sports 
 games on the market to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonX_portugal
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:01 am PT
Review:  Ok i've played this game for a good 15 hours or so, and I can honestly say that I LOVE this game. 
 This game is well worth the cheap 40 bucks. When I bought it, I was expecting a mediocre game with 
 crappy controls. I only bought it cuz i love table tennis, I mean who doesn't? Rockstar has made 
 many great violent video games in the past and a few good racing games too, but how good could 
 a table tennis game from them be? The answer is pretty damn good.
  
  Controls:
  Wow, the controls are pretty damn solid and easy to learn. They were much more in depth that I 
 anticipated. You can put Topspin on the ball using the A button. Rightspin pressing the B button. 
 Leftspin with the X button. And Backspin using the Y button. If you use the left bumper while pressing 
 any one of these other buttons, you make a Soft Shot which buts no power on the ball, making it 
 barely fly over the net. You can also make a shot called a Focus Shot using the right bumper, and 
 it pretty much goes into a slow motion matrix-like camera, which helps you concentrate on the shot 
 and gives it more power. You can even charge your shots by holding whichever button you press to 
 give it more power.
  When you or your opponent hits the ball, it turns a certain color (red, yellow, blue, or green) 
 which tells what button you hit the ball with (B, Y, X, or A) and you can counter the other persons 
 shot by pressing the same color they did. Its pretty neat.
  The serve is pretty good too and you can control how much power and spin each serve has. Every 
 character seems well balanced and they all feel suprisingly different from each other which is 
 a plus.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are pretty good. There really isnt much to look at in a ping pong game, but they are 
 still stellar. The player models are very detailed and the environments look nice too. The ball 
 physics is also amazing, it really acts like a real ball would.
  
  Sound:
  Oh I love the sound of a bouncing table tennis ball. The sound is really good, from the cround 
 in the back cheering you on, to the ball being slapped with a paddle, to the techno music that 
 appears when things get intense, its all pretty good.
  
  Online and Vs:
  Online is pretty stong, very fun and addicting and so is playing with a friend. No lag either when 
 i played.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  This game is very addicting and will make you want to not put your controller down. Playing against 
 the computer is challenging and there are unlockables such as different players, courts, and clothing. 
 The achievements are pretty cool. Everything in this game is very fast paced and will make you 
 crave for more.
  
  
  Conclusion:
  Overall, 
 i would give this game a 9.1/10. It's very fun, addicting, and fast paced, but I really wish that 
 there was some kind of carreer mode. There is a Tournament mode which doesnt take that long to 
 blow through, but you can go through it multiple times with each character to unlock different 
 things. There is also an Exhibition mode where you play one quick game agaisnt the computer or 
 a friend, there is a training mode, which I highly recommend doing before you play. And then there 
 is Live, which is amazing. The graphics are great, sound is great too, and the controls are AMAZING. 
 The game is only 40 bucks which is a HUGE plus and is worth every penny. I highly recommend this 
 game and I'm proud to add it to my collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molko189
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  It may not be a very big game but that doesnt really matter now its been out for a while... you 
 can pick table tennis up for around &pound;15 and for that price its worth every penny. Online 
 is where it at in this game... its one of them games that makes you stress out when playing because 
 its so crazy. Everyone should at least try this game just for the fact that its like nothing youve 
 ever played before. You get lost in the game and it feels like your really there... thats if your 
 playing on a nice HD tv. Graphics and gameplay is what this game is all about... the only let down 
 is the amount of stuff to do on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xploded
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  When you first boot up your copy of Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis (Table Tennis from now 
 on) It shows a bright, clear screen that doesnt have alot of options compare to some other games 
 like C. O. D2, Amped 3, PGR3, and other typical games. The options include: XBOX LIVE, Tourney, Exibition, 
 option, and extras. If you just start a match, its very simple. That is the good thing about the 
 game: Clear, Simple, and easy to control. I do admit the game has a down side. The xbox live is 
 worse then any xblive game i ever played. I love xbox live, i think cod2 makes great use of xbox 
 live, and that it is totally worth the 50$ a year. It is a great game that shouldn't be missed 
 by anyone. It is very realistic, so the sports fans will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  One word can review this game. FUN. It is just simply fun. Not a whole lot of options but it does 
 have quick play and tounament mode. But the game play is where is shines. It plays so well with 
 the controller. Every hit feels like you did it. From the backspins, topspins and the slams. It 
 is great. The graphics are next gen in every way. It is just a great game. Not much else can be 
 said but to pick this title up for your 360 collection. You will go back to it again and again 
 for some fun game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martini78
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Rockstar's Table Tennis game presents a very impressive simulation of an action packed sport. Taking 
 full advantage of the Xbox 360 capabilities, this game is as close to the real thing as any sports 
 game for any system I have seen. Audio and video are very good, and the action is so fast that 
 you can't even glance away from the screen without screwing up.
  
  The gameplay is very unique. It can either be simple or very difficult. You can use the colored 
 buttons to hit shots, or you can use the right analog (more difficult) and the buttons on the top 
 of the controller. If you just want to hit buttons, you can play successfully if your timing is 
 right. If you take the time to master the harder options, your arsenal of shots becomes more deadly. 
 This control system fits a wide variety of players, so if your friend wants to play with no prior 
 knowledge of the game, he/she won't need to spend an hour learning the harder option.
  
  Being a fast paced game, the player needs very fast reflexes and great reaction time. Thus, for 
 best gaming experience, the minimum system requirements for the human are: IQ of at least 75 and 
 maximum alcohol consumption of 6 drinks.
  
  The only drawback to the game is depth. There are enough player characters and venues to mix things 
 up, but game modes are limited. Exhibition and 4 tournaments are all that is offered.
  
  Still, all things considered, the game is excellent. Ping Pong/ Table Tennis players will appreciate 
 it the most, but anyone can enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stukes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Table Tennis is an exuberant game. I wouldnt think that the guys that brought us GTA 
 would give us this. First, the graphics are amazing. All the players look real, the environment 
 looks like you are in the arena, and the clothe movement is precise. As you progress through a 
 match, your characters clothes start to become visibly damp from sweet. You can also see it on 
 their foreheads as well. The sounds are great. If you get into a rally above 5 or so hits, music 
 starts to play and you start to get in to the flow and the rhythm. Players also exert grunts and 
 yells as you lung for the ball. The game play is easy once you gone through the Training mode. 
 In Training mode, youll learn the basics from a topspin shot, to hitting soft shots, to hitting 
 the ball in focus mode. Each button has a specific type of shot spin to it (x is a left spin, b 
 is right, etc.) or you could use the right thumb stick. The ball has a tail of color on it to tell 
 you what kind off shot has been made. For example, if your opponent shots a left spin (x button) , 
 the ball will have a blue tail. This is helpful on hitting counter shots. Rockstar Table Tennis 
 has great replay value due to the fact that if you want to unlock everything, you have to play 
 with everyone three times, and thats just to unlock extra characters. You might have to go back 
 to unlock new jerseys and arenas. Multi-player is a plus on this game because it has Xbox Live. 
 Local multi-player is good as well. Ive had this game for a while, bout six months. I only played 
 this game three out of the six months Ive had it so far. Its that good. Go get it. Its defiantly 
 worth it.
  
  Stukes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paperbagman04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 26, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  If you like tenis table but are just terrible at it .... this is what you want to check out. the 
 game is highly addicting and its just plain fun. The gameplay is very fast paced so you always 
 have to be alert. But the game is very easy to get into and play. But mastering the game is very 
 hard.... But its a very great game. Playing table tennis has never ben this much fun! the online 
 is probablly the best part of the game. But at times the game get laggy. So be sure to check this 
 game out if you like table tennis 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProfesorGlowbug
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  My buddies and I like Ping Pong, we grew up playing ping pong on both digital systems and when 
 we were fortunate enough on real tables. Some of them developed some wicked skills and no matter 
 how good I got I was never good enoughuntil now! This game brings out the geek in me, I may not 
 be good enough to kick their a$$ in RL but in the digital world the fastest fingers mixed with 
 a good understanding of the physics of the game, rule. Doesnt matter if I couldnt really pull 
 a left spin spiked from the far side of the table, cause in Rockstars game once you know how to 
 hit the right sequence  you can do it, every time! I found most of the characters strengths and 
 weakness balanced somewhat, though there are obviously a few characters that seem a head taller 
 than the rest. The mixing up the strengths and weaknesses or spin, power, accuracy and such really 
 creates a fun environment. The concept of no music until you get a good rally going is just AWESOMEno 
 kidding this game gets the hype on! When I put the game in, everyone loves it - even my friends 
 who dont like sports games. The learning curve takes about half an hour to two if you just play, 
 but if you work through the little demo sequences this curve happens much faster. A couple of my 
 buddies were ubber frustrated that they were getting schooled so bad so we gave them &frac12; each 
 to work through the training and it dramatically improved their game.
  
  ONLINE  Once again this game is all about playing in VS mode, so go Gold or get friends, cause 
 all by yourself its good fun for a bit, but not near as cool trash talking your buddies after 
 a long rally where you totally dominated. On the downside like any online game sometimes I find 
 that there is a bit of lag, and this means that although the ball goes back and forth on cue your 
 opponents character might not. This can make things REALLY confusing as you think your about to 
 score and all of a sudden the ball comes right back at ya!
  
  Achievements  if you are looking for easy achievements this isnt the game for you. Rockstar did 
 a great job of mixing up the difficulty and presenting a variety of achievements. Without a doubt 
 some of the achievements in this game will come to be your more prized accomplishments, that is 
 IF you can get them.
  
  The summary: For the price, anyone who has buddies over and loves a little playful competition, 
 should pick this title up because the more you play it with friends the more you HAVE to play it 
 with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwbrdr13
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 9, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty good considering it's table tennis and what not. The campaign mode is pretty 
 good consisting of a number of pro table tennis players to choose from. But online I think is where 
 this game takes it as most games tend to do. The controls are pretty easy to figure out with different 
 buttons have a different type of spin involved and you can also counter spin by picking the same 
 colored button of an oppenents shot. Overall this game is a good one to rent and possibly buy if 
 you are into table tennis. Otherwise may get a little repetive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor19990
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about table tennis i thought to myself what a stupid idea. That was until i 
 played it. The graphics in this game, while not the quality of say FNR3, or GRAW are really good, 
 the characters move smoothly, and they get sweaty etc as the match heats up. The gameplay is simple, 
 button mashers, could easily pick this game up for a quick match, but they will soon learn that 
 mashing is not the key to this game.
  The online portion of this game is great, every match i have played has been enjoyable.
  So to 
 sum it up, all in all the game is superb, and for its cheap price i think everyone should own it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King-Ryan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:56 am PT
Review:  I gave this game a score based on the content of this game and not what it should have!
  
  I have so much fun playing game, especially online. Most of the time i get my ass kicked. But when 
 you turn a loosing game around just by changing tactics and win the match with a smash......... priceless!
 
  
  At first i dissed this game too, like a reviewer who gave a +4. How can a simple game like this 
 be fun? And why didn't it cost as much as the other games? So it must be crap!
  
  Well I have this game a few days now. I have to touch Saints Row yet!
  
  I do wish, no demand 
 a player creator function. Maybe as a downloadable add on or something, at least for Table Tennis 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompouce
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  We didn't saw a lot of table tennis game but this one is very particually good. Because of is simple 
 lurning curve and is simple gaming, table tennis is testing our reflex a lot. It's hard to go trought 
 the game because the caracter A. I. is hard. Because of is simple tipe of game, they have put a 
 lot of on the graphic because its not a big action game but, I think you can be addicted to it 
 any-way. Its not a powerfull game but I like more to play this with my friend then playing Halo 
 or Quake4 Hehe!!. It's not hard for the one who is begening, but it's like every game : if you 
 play a lot you will became better then site their and wait for the power!!... so...
  
  I recomend it for : people who like to play sport and for people who is patient because longer 
 your playing, harder it became.
  
  I dont recommend : for people who dont have a Xbox360 or dont like game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Its quite likely that most were surprised when they heard Rockstar was going to make a table tennis 
 game. Everyone knows what brought them to the dance as a developer, but hey, good on them for trying 
 something so different. Of course, its one thing to try something different, but to actually create 
 a very compelling game experience that is nuanced and interesting in almost all facets of its gameplay 
 (and that doesnt cost the usual sticker price) is definitely to be applauded. Well, Rockstar has 
 certainly done that, as Table Tennis proves to be a very challenging and deep game of table tennis 
 that has just a dash of arcade flair thrown in for good measure.
  
  From the opening cinematic to the main menu, Table Tennis is presented in a minimalist style that 
 really focuses the experience towards gameplay. The only play options presented from the main menu 
 are exhibition, tournament, training, and Xbox Live  thats it. Theres no career mode to speak 
 of in Table Tennis, although the tournaments prove as somewhat of a surrogate for one. The game 
 doesnt allow for much globetrotting, coaches, rivalries or anything like that, but the tournaments 
 do take you through regional, national and world levels. Of course, the only thing to really change 
 during the tournaments is the venues, but at least the arenas do convey a small sense of variety 
 to the tourney experience.
  
  As for who you can chose to take into a match, Table Tennis doesnt allow you to actually create 
 a player, but opts to just provide a several pre-made characters that have fixed strengths and 
 weaknesses. Initially, there are only four players to use, but unlockables will provide another 
 seven pong combatants. All of the players represent different countries, but as said, each of them 
 does have specific skills. Luc, for instance, hails from France and is quite adept at powering 
 shots past his opponents, whereas someone like Haley (from U. S. A.) has more of a balanced, defensive 
 game. The lack of player-creation is a bit annoying, but Rockstar obviously wanted players to pick 
 out of a basic list and not have to worry about some maxed-out created character that would unbalance 
 the game. Regardless, if another Table Tennis game were made, the feature would be added, without 
 a doubt.
  
  Before brining someone like Luc into the tournament circuit, it would be a good idea to venture 
 into the games training mode. This feature is quite comprehensive and gives some very pointed 
 instructions on how to perform Table Tennis various shots and actions. Essentially, the action 
 in Table Tennis is quite similar to tennis games like Top Spin and requires you to use the four 
 face buttons (or the right thumbstick) to execute shots. The A button handles the top spin (read: 
 powerful) , whereas the Y button provides a backspin shot that slightly lobs the ping-pong ball 
 and slows up the pace. X and Y buttons provide left spin and right spin shots, respectively, and 
 these are helpful for angling an opponent to the outside of the table. All of these shots actually 
 place a small blip of color on the ball (like the Hitters Eye in MVP Baseball) , and this is quite 
 useful for countering an opponents shot with the opposite spin or just generally knowing whats 
 coming at you. As said, the right thumbstick can also perform these shots, but using that input 
 certainly takes some getting used to, especially since all of these shots can also be charged 
 up.
  
  Essentially, the longer you hold down a button (or press a direction) , the more velocity and spin 
 that particular shot will have. Besides the obvious benefits, charging up shots will also fill 
 up a focus meter above your player that allows you to press the right bumper in conjunction with 
 a shot in order to add some serious velocity; the focus shots are very useful for putting an 
 opponent out of position or just for straight-up burying a shot. The focus meter can also be built 
 up so that you can go into a full focus mode in which your name flashes and the next several shots 
 from your player are dangerous. The cool thing is that both players can actually get into this 
 mode simultaneously, causing the table to be spotlighted (no crowd visible) and the resulting action 
 to be insanely fast and intense.
  
  The other actions in the game are performed quite easily, as well. Serving the ball requires the 
 use of a basic meter that dictates degree of spin and power, but you can also choose which spin 
 you want to put on the serve before you initiate the shot. Another nuance of the game is body position, 
 and the left thumbstick allows your character to move around the table. In fact, you can even move 
 your character quite far back to create some truly memorable ping-pong duels, and playing far back 
 is actually strategic since you can charge up your shots more, but you will be out of place for 
 heavily angled shots.
  
  What is underscored when playing a game of Rockstar Table Tennis is how finely tuned all of these 
 elements of gameplay are. The ball is served and then you and your opponent proceed to have a crazy 
 rally where both of you are working angles and attempting power shots, but are also wary of what 
 trick the other person might have up their sleeve. Body position is key in all matches of Table 
 Tennis, and youll usually know when youve been exposed for playing one side too much or attempting 
 too many power shots. Rallies will often be broken by one player being forced out of position and 
 then barely returning the shot, but it will be popped up in the air, allowing for an easy smash 
 and point. Other subtleties like placing counterspin the ball or combining two spins (say, left 
 spin and top spin) can really add some drama and excitement to rallies, and they also make the 
 game that much more engaging.
  
  Of course, the long rallies wouldnt be as engrossing if the game moved very slowly  this is certainly 
 not the case. While Rockstar Table Tennis doesnt quite move at the insane clip that some Olympic 
 ping-pong matches might move at, the game certainly comes damn close. Theres much less reaction 
 time in Table Tennis than in a game like Top Spin, and youll really have to have your player in 
 the right position to counter some quick shots from the opposition  much of this will become instinctual 
 during some rallies. That the game manages to pull of this sense of speed and still have the gameplay 
 reach a great level of depth is certainly to its credit, and its obvious that Rockstar San Diego 
 really focused on nailing the gameplay, both in terms of speed and depth.
  
  Playing against the AI proves to be a bit Jekyll and Hyde in nature, as the easy settings are pretty 
 pathetic, but the harder levels are quite challenging. You will certainly see the variance in character 
 ability as you go up against each player, and some of the unlockable characters are downright mean 
 when you play them in some of the harder tournaments. Still, the gameplay forces you to pay attention 
 to what youre doing and mix up your strategy if a certain character is exploiting you in some 
 fashion, and you might have to play several different ways to win a given tournament  once again, 
 a testament to the games surprising depth.
  
  This depth of gameplay is brought to the forefront when going online. Besides the basic slew of 
 one-on-one matches achieved through Quick Match and Create-A-Match features, there are also timed 
 tournaments that allow four or eight players to play in a round robin format where each player 
 gets a chance to play the other in timed matches that are decided when the time expires. A lack 
 of doubles is noteworthy, but whether the mode wouldve worked, practically or technically, is 
 certainly debatable. Lag isnt too much of a problem online, but there will be a slight delay or 
 omission of certain animations when serving and shooting, occasionally. In general, the action 
 online is totally playable and a great deal of fun, especially since human competition is always 
 so much more unpredictable. Also of note is the ability to be a spectator for a match, and this 
 is pretty cool because not only can four people watch a specific contest, but they can also talk 
 to each other, view the match from any angle, and get an achievement for doing so  good on Rockstar 
 for encouraging people to use the feature.
  
  Like many recent Xbox 360 games, Rockstar Table Tennis is aided by the clarity and sharpness of 
 its graphics. On a high-definition television, the games razor-sharp looks come to life, and character 
 animations stand out as particularly good. In fact, when watching a match online (or watching a 
 replay) , the side camera angle could almost be mistaken for real life when not looking with too 
 discriminating of an eye. The players themselves all look extremely detailed, and they only suffer 
 from waxy person syndrome a tiny bit. As said, their animations are meticulously accurate, right 
 down to the way in which they react to a point or the posturing of their hand on the paddle. The 
 way their clothes move is also strikingly real, with shirts and shorts rippling and bouncing with 
 each successive shot. The stadiums arent totally flawless, but the scale and lighting used in 
 each seems quite accurate, and is certainly distinctive. As a side detail, its nice to see the 
 collision detection on the ball and paddle being accurate as well, and this is very evident during 
 the games controllable replay mode.
  
  Audio wise, Table Tennis does its job quite well. The sounds of ping-pong are all captured during 
 a match, and the detail of each bounce and bop of the ball is all realized surprisingly well. You 
 will also hear the voices of each player as they grunt, yell, taunt, and laugh, and touches like 
 these really add to the atmosphere of a match (even if they are sometimes a bit cheesy) . As always, 
 you can throw in your own custom soundtrack if you wish, but the game features some typical Rockstar 
 beats during the menus, and it even swells into the matches, occasionally, when the action heats 
 up. There isnt a great deal of audio in the game, but what is present is done well.
  
  The mileage may vary on a game like Rockstar Table Tennis, but there are a good deal of unlockables 
 and extras to go after. As said earlier, there are seven unlockable characters to acquire (by playing 
 through the various tournaments and difficulty levels) , plus several different outfits for each 
 person. Achievement fiends should be moderately happy with the selection of Gamerscore points to 
 be had, with some achievements being easy to unlock (play a game, spectate a match, complete training) 
 and others being quite challenging (going through the hardest tournament modes, beating tournaments 
 with all characters) .
  
  Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis is a compelling game experience that is quite affordable at 
 $39.99 USD. The game is presented and constructed in a totally simple and unobtrusive way, and 
 it delivers compelling gameplay in both online and offline formats. The omission of some creation 
 or career features might bother some, but this game nails the most important areas of a game experience 
 right on the button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janschreurs
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 22, 2006 4:26 am PT
Review:  Think about it , table tennis, why bother making a game of it. It's basically hitting a ball , 
 isn't that just plain stupid!? if you want to play table tennis ultimate graphics , BUY A TABLETENNIS 
 BOARD, its probarbly easier and cheaper too ! man that game is hard. click klack click clack , 
 damn .. i'm bored .. can i throw this thing a my opponent .. no.. can i change my character to 
 look groovy .. no...
  ok .. err lets play 8 ppl live... oh wait the others just watch u play .. wow .. man this game 
 sure beats GTA lol .... NOT wasn't really expecting this from the makers of Gta , i would expect 
 this to have been made 10 years ago with the name .. super table tennis Doom.. placed in the future 
 when the chinees have conquered the world , and force people to play table tennis.. mmhh maybe 
 a good expansion pack for the game eh? , oh wait its on the XBOX 360.. oh well, and if you like 
 it no hard feeling , just my opinion .. bit bad for 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewmgreendawg
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Quick review
  
  This table tennis game has excellent graphics, solid control, and some intense yet fun action. 
 The only downside to this game is that it gets old pretty fast unless you find yourself becoming 
 easily addicted to sports games. I'd reccomend just renting it unless you buy it used (you can 
 probably find a used copy for 30 USD) because even if you don't get tired of the game fast there 
 isn't a whole lot to do in it and not many people play online. Gameplay: 9. solid gameplay with 
 great control over your actions. excellent moments of intensity and quick reaction playing.
  
  Graphics: 10. very very good. character models are along the lines of fight night round 3. 
 Clothing and skin ripple. characters sweat.
  
  Sound: 8. The sound in this game is actually done extremely well. Music plays as your rally increases, 
 adding to the intense feeling. The ball soundds like it should.. lol. the characters grunt.
  
  Value: 6. The only bad part about the game. Really isn't much beyond some online play and tournament 
 mode. Just table tennis no extra game modes or challenges.
  
  Tilt: 7. The game was a lot better than i was expecting but i'm still not much of a sports fan. 
 It gets a 7 because i can still respect the quality of the game even if i dont personally love 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeV192
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 15, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  THis game is vary fun. But you cant create or do much in it other than play in a tournament. The 
 tournaments are dumb you play one at a timeand it is dumb. The online is fun if your good at this 
 game like me but if you suck get ready for a 10 game losing streak and im not lieing. THis game 
 is tight though but it is not a buyer unless you like ping pong and cherish it you should buy it. 
 But rent this game for shure before you buy it unless you want a game with just really good graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_tron
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:29 am PT
Review:  Where to start on this one. In one word. Fantastic. First things first. According to Rockstar they 
 are going to use this graphics engine for GTA IV. Let me just say for everyone else out there. 
 We can't wait.
  
  But on to the game. This is by far one of the most pure forms of the sport game to ever grace a 
 console. Fabulous gameplay. The sheer speed of play. The individual movements and attitudes of 
 the different characters. The way the sounds transport you into the match. All these things lead 
 to one thing. This is one heck of a game. The ability to play on Xbox Live adds the enjoyment.
 
  
  The controls are very responsive. The more the rally's add up the faster and more fluid the movements 
 become. The way the rumble pad responds when you aim too far to either side is a nice touch. On 
 the down side there is no career mode and no character creation. It would have been nice to customize 
 the look and feel of your player and take him from rookie to champ. As it is you have several prefab 
 characters to choose from which you can compete with in exhibition or tournament mode. On the Live 
 side of things there was some lag at times but not enough to sway the game.
  
  Aside from a few faults Table Tennis is pure addictive gaming pleasure. For me at least it's the 
 new Tetris. I daydream about my spin combos all the time. All you Tetris fans know what I'm talking 
 about.
  
  Give this game a shot. It rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar finally made a game that doesn't have to do with intense violence, and that my dear friends, 
 is Table Tennis. There is no point to the game other then playing matches with different characters 
 until you become the champ.
  
  The gameplay is indeed pretty fun. You can use the right analog stick or the buttons to swing your 
 paddle in a variety of ways (ie: backswings, front swings, etc.) You can move your tennis player 
 with the left stick so in case the game gets serious you can move closer &amp; backwards or sideways 
 or whatever way you need to hit the ball. You can also hold down the button or way you are going 
 to hit for a power attack that sends the ball flying. In addition, right before you serve the ball 
 you can use this little guage that pops up to determine both spin and power upon first hit. Table 
 Tennis can be played witrh you verse a friend or on X-Box Live... since I do not have XLive I can't 
 tell you anything about that, but local play is really really fun.
  
  By doing certain moves or keeping the ball in play for a while you can unlock arenas and different 
 clothing for the character you are playing as and also unlock new Table Tennisers if you beat the 
 game in a certain way. I mean if your in it for the X-Box Achievements thing then you could play 
 the training mode and beat the game with every character on all the different tournament difficulties 
 to achieve all them. Otherwise thats about it for replayability.
  
  The graphics are really good, atleast for a Rockstar game. You can see almost every little detail 
 on the characters from facial expressions, hair &amp; clothing moving, sweat, everything. It truley 
 was eye candy. Ontoppa that the stadiums &amp; crowd look amazing. It was a nice touch when the 
 game starts getting heated and the crowd is going wild and all the lights turn off except the one 
 above you, the table, and your opponent and the crowd is going wild.
  
  The music is pretty good, mostly techno stuff but it still fits the bill. The music actually stops 
 during the game until, like I said, the match starts heating up where the music gets louder and 
 helps amp up the situation. I would have liked to hear some heavy metal guitars in there, but whatever. 
 The voice acting is actually quite superb to be honest; they actually express themselves &amp; 
 show personalities by getting angry and cursing &amp; flipping out to jumping with joy and raising 
 themselves. The sound effects, such as the paddles hitting the ball, the ball hitting the table, 
 and the crowd cheering are all really good as well.
  
  Downfalls? Oh sure. Any difficulty over Amateur is nearly impossible - I mean you may get past 
 the first match, but after that you need to be a pro to be anyone else. Secondly, the characters 
 are completley unbalanced.. by this I mean one character can be completley useless and another 
 (like Lieu Ping) are untouchable. Third on the list is sometimes the opposing character will hit 
 the ball so hard and fast that, realistically, its physically impossible to hit and it reflects 
 in the game... but its also impossible for them to even hit that fast in the first place. There 
 are no doubles and there is no create a character which is just bad in my opinion - I would have 
 loved to see a fake me rise to the top. Oh yes, one more downfall is its a best 2 out of 3 game, 
 so in otherwords you must beat your opponent two times in 11 point games, otherwise they beat you... 
 it could be frustrating if you're playing against an extremley hard opponent and he beats you by 
 you hitting the net.
  
  To sum it up, Table Tennis has its flaws but the game is so intense and the controls are so easy 
 that any casual gamer or pro can pick it up and enjoy, even though it does get repetitive. I suggest 
 you buy if you want some seriously intense matches where your palms will get sweaty ONLY IF you 
 can control your temper, otherwise this game can be labled as a rent only . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazmacfaz99
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  At first glance this is THE best looking 360 game. After the first hlaf hour this is THE best looking 
 360 game. After 10 days of gameplay, this is THE best looking 360 game. Do you get the point? This 
 game should inspire most casual gamers to buy it just by looking at the graphical quality, but 
 the more traditional "hardcore" gamer will be looking for that old rockstar genious in the gameplay 
 sound and generall quality. Some may be dissapointed. Some may be addicted. Others may not really 
 care. Such is the charm of rockstar table tennis. The reason people may have very mixed reactions 
 is because there is NOT much content. That isnt to say there isnt a lot of gameplay, it just means 
 you will be doing matches without any general purpose for the entirety of this game. The gameplay 
 is very similair to that of most tennis games, although slightly more fast paced and with a few 
 neat touches like the spin control. At the 30 price tag its worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Table Tennis has never befor been so awesome
  
  GOOD- Life-like tennis players; very fun to play; tight controls;
  
  BAD- Lack of game modes; 
 no carrea modes; too easy
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This game is suprising good, you would'nt belive it, its basic move left or right and press the 
 trigger bottons to wack the ball, it is basic, but very fun, but does get repetative latter on. 
 what makes the gameplay downer is the gae modes, there is'nt many
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are realy great, the players are so life-like, with real face impressions and sweat 
 drops,.
  
  SOUND:
  It has good music, but there is'nt many, plus its quiet.
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?
  Tho a very good game, you dont get enough for your money, but you 
 can get it very cheep, something around 35. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzzxx
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  Pros: A great idea; amazing looking character models; fast and furious gameplay; pick up and play 
 feel; well designed achievements; plenty of unlockables; great multiplayer; budget price
  
  Cons: No career or create-a-player modes; it gets repetitive; later tournaments are impossibly 
 tough
  
  Table Tennis was developed by Rockstar, the company most well known for it's Grand Theft Auto series. 
 Rockstar normally make games that drive politicians crazy. But Table Tennis is just a good game 
 that focuses on getting the table tennis feel right. And it succeeds. This is certainly a pleasant 
 surprise from Rockstar, and with a few more modes, this one could have been a great game. Table 
 Tennis plays a lot like a normal tennis game. The main difference being it's speed. Table Tennis 
 moves faster than just about every other sports game out there. If theres one thing Table Tennis 
 gets right, its the fact that Rockstar has transfered table tennis into a really fun game. And 
 Rockstar better be glad they did a great job with that because if they hadn't, they wouldn't have 
 anything to fall back on. While playing, you have 4 basic shots. Topspin, backspin, leftspin, and 
 rightspin. Each is assigned to a different face button, or done by holding the right analog stick 
 in a certain direction. You can also combine spins, giving you a total of 8 shots. You can have 
 a topspin shot that also curves right, etc. It's really simple, and allows anyone to pick up and 
 play. As you score points and play well, you also build your focus meter. Your focus lets you take 
 harder, more accurate shots. You can use your focus at anytime by using the left bumper, or just 
 let it build up. If you let your focus fill up, it will automatically turn on. Some shots are for 
 different purposes. For instance: If you use a good backspin shot, and your opponent uses a topspin 
 shot, it their shot will likely go into the net. The same applies for you. Luckily, averytime you 
 or the cpu hits the ball, it will have a colored trail following it. The colors or for backspin, 
 topspin, etc. The color corresponds to whatever button you would press to do that type of shot. 
 Topspin is green because you would press A to do a top spin shot. It's a great system, and it works 
 very well. Your character doesn't move very much considering the fact that the table is so small. 
 You use the analog stick to aim your shot. A great feature is that when you are aiming your shot, 
 the controller will vibrate. If it starts to vibrate really hard, your shot will go out. So you 
 simply let up on the analog stick. This is a great idea, and should be in all tennis games.
  
  There are three modes in Table Tennis. Exhibition, Tournament, and Online. Thats it. No career, 
 no create-a-player, nothing like that. Tournament mode is just basically matches. You play a certain 
 number of opponents until you win. Thats it. There are four different tournaments. One for each 
 difficulty setting. The first two aren't challenging at all. But the third and fourth ones will 
 drive you to frustration. The cpu AI gets cheap, and you can really tell. They will return shots 
 that would be impossibe for any human player. It's a shame the difficulties aren't balanced better. 
 But what is balance well are the characters. Every character has strengths and weaknesses. No character 
 is terrible, and none are perfect. One character named Jesper had a full power stat. But his spin 
 and accuracy stats are really low. The balance is great. There are a few characters, and all their 
 stats are quite different. Exhibition lets you play against the computer or a friend. Mulriplayer 
 is great. It's just really fun when your playing with your best buddy. I haven't signed up for 
 Xbox Live Gold, so I don't know how the online play is. The graphics in Table Tennis are good. 
 The player models look amazing. They animate great as well. Shirts move realistically, and even 
 become soaked in sweat as a long match goes on. But aside from the character models, there really 
 isn't anything else. No crowds. Just the table. And the environments you play in look bland, without 
 much detail. It looks weird to have amazing looking character models in average looking environments. 
 The character models look even better in HD. They really show the power of the 360. There isn't 
 much sound in Table Tennis. None of the characters ever talk. The crowd is pretty good though. 
 Gasps and cheers, event chants. Almost every character in the game comes from a different country. 
 So instead of chanting your players name, the crowd will chant your countries name. Besides that, 
 theres some background music, but not anything worth mentioning. And there really isn't any other 
 sound besides the ball hitting the paddle.
  
  Overall, Table Tennis is a good game that easily could have been great. With a few more modes, 
 this game would be a must have. This one is definately worth the rental, but I would say wait until 
 Table Tennis 2 before you buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomHawk92
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Single player:
  This is probably the most frustrating games I've ever played. Once u get to the all star tournament 
 it starts to get very difficult. It made be want to throw the controller across the room screaming 
 "F#$%". Single player is great but could have been better because there's only four tournaments 
 and no create-a-player option.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The main highlight of this game. This moves way faster than single player and is pretty fun when 
 u get up to 100 hit rally. The tournaments r fun and overall multiplayer makes this game have its 
 replay value.
  
  Table Tennis is a fantastic game that everyone check out. It's defiantly worth a rent but take 
 my word for it, u'll love it, so I would buy it like did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clevelandrox23
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Who would have ever thought that table tennis would make a great videogame or a 360 game for that 
 matter. The gameplay is extraordinary, it almost feels like your playing the real thing. Xbox live 
 is solid but I wish that games started modeling their rank system after halo 2's. This game is 
 missing several features which could make it a great game. There is no create a player, and not 
 to many things to do with the game besides one-on-one with your friends or on xbox live. Overall 
 its worth the $40 where almost all 360 games are $60, and its a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nehe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Ping pong is so much fun this game took it to another limit. The only thing about the game thats 
 terrible is the xbox live mutiplayer play online. Then once you get into the game its fun and then 
 after a while it becomes bland ya know nothing more to do to have much more exciting fun. There 
 isn't a create a player mode... with the polygons in this game I would of thought they would put 
 it in. Great game to have in your collection though. The next one I bet will be even better. If 
 there is a next one coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis takes ping-pong to a whole new level. Most people think of 
 ping-pong as a hobby instead of a sport. This game gives it the respect that it deserves. The wild 
 part is that Rockstar Games, the company that has put out controversial games such as the Grand 
 Theft Auto series and Manhunt, published the game.
  
  The presentation and game play is incredible. First off, most people think that they can easily 
 master a game as simple as ping-pong. Those same people won't have the same attitude when they 
 pick this game up to play it. The game isn't incredibly hard at first but it does take a certain 
 skill to master it. If you aren't familiar with ping-pong then you will definitely learn a thing 
 or two while playing the game. There are four different types of hits (top spin, backspin, and 
 right and left spins) . There are power and weak shots. The controller will rumble when your shot 
 is too powerful which will most likely end up out (the ball going off of the table) . The weak shots 
 are good to use when your opponent is a good distance away from the table and they are anticipating 
 a power shot. There is also a meter at the top of the screen that, once full, lets you focus on 
 hitting the ball with a little more power and it makes it harder for your opponent.
  
  I never knew that ping-pong could look this great. The graphics aren't eye popping but you will 
 be able to notice that this is a next generation game. The detail in the characters are quite impressive. 
 You will notice once the players begin to sweat because of the sweat stains on their shirts. The 
 player's clothes also move realistically. If your player has been using a lot of power at the end 
 of a play they will bend over and take deep breaths. There isn't much to see when it comes to the 
 environment besides the ping-pong table. Rockstar could have spruced it up a little and added some 
 spectators. You can hear them but they are nowhere to be found. 
  
  The sound could have been a bit better. The music is very repetitive and boring. Each character 
 has their own signature groans and at times some of them make smart comments if they win a play. 
 
  
  There is a ton of replay value even though there are only four tournaments (amateur, rookie, pro 
 and all-star) . In the beginning of the game you start off with a small amount of characters but 
 once you start winning tournaments you will eventually unlock all 11 characters. Each character 
 also has a set amount of outfits that can be unlocked. The multi-player is fun. While on Xbox Live 
 you have the choice to play exhibition matches or ranked matches. There are leaderboards and a 
 spectator mode where you can watch other people play. There seems to be a nice balance when it 
 comes to the achievement points. Some achievements are as easy as completing training while others 
 are more difficult like shutting out an opponent (your opponent doesn't score the whole match) 
 in 5 ranked online games.
  
  The biggest problem I had was that there isn't a create-a-player and career mode, so you aren't 
 given a chance to build your own character and start from the bottom of the barrel and work your 
 way up. On Xbox Live it would have been nice if they added a lobby feature so that you could talk 
 to some of the other players and set up games or tournaments that way.
  
  In conclusion, if you are looking for a game that is going to give you a challenge and forces you 
 to improve your skills then this is the game for you. The presentation alone will make you interested 
 in playing. After playing a couple of hours of this game I'm sure you will be trying to find ping-pong 
 tournaments on ESPN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HickoryShinobi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Rockstar went from beating prostitutes with shovels to playing ping pong with good sportsmanship, 
 talk about change.
  
  This game is ALRIGHT, the ping pong is how it should be. But there is nothing else to do, i was 
 really hoping for like a char. custimization or something or other. Multiplayer is fun , solo play 
 is alright.
  
  Beware of the massive stereotypes in this game
  
  The Pingpong Y ---------------- Backspin Left Spin -----X B  
 Spin A ----------------Top Spin Unless you're really good, Backspin is kinda useless Top Spin Used 
 A lot when you really need power
  Left and Right spin are used really when your opponent is open in certain areas, And there are 
 soft shots with left bumper which.... is a soft shot
  And focus (slo-mo) with the right bumper.
  
  The controls feel great but this game is sorta 
 kinda repetitive.
  Put those few things aside this game is a little slice of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideogamer
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  There are two sides to a weird concept. One that will surprise you and possibly frighten you away, 
 and another that can bring a much-needed originality in a market crowded with sequels and endless 
 amounts of sports games that don't do anything to really appeal. Rockstar Games Presents Table 
 Tennis, or just Table Tennis for those who hate long titles the likes of this one, is one of those 
 sort of things. It does seem odd that Rockstar, a company often infamous for it's well-known Grand 
 Theft Auto series (one that focuses on free-form gameplay as well as pushing the limit on mature 
 content) would want to pursue the world of sports games. And it would also seem odd that any company 
 would want to pursue the world of Ping-Pong games. But this isn't a sort of Katamari Damaci type 
 of game which tries to build on it's odd concept, instead it makes itself an extremely well presented 
 (and not to mention quite classy in some regards) , well put together game that can really draw 
 you in from the moment you start playing, even if your interest in sports games is generally low.
 
  
  Starting up you'll find RGPTT does have a pretty meager amount of modes, only giving you a training 
 for learning the game, a basic exhibition mode, a tournament mode which is where you'll probably 
 spend most of your time and an online mode. Fortunately for Table Tennis, this is really all there 
 needs to be. Though the lack of anything really extra does hurt the overall package a bit, there 
 are a couple of challenging achievements that really make you have to work to earn them. So, of 
 course, anyone looking for an easy game is going to be out of luck here as it may start out simple, 
 the game starts to get pretty merciless the moment you step out of the easy difficulties, and especially 
 when you take on some of the more ruthless players, offline and on.
  
  And speaking of the players, the game offers up to about nine of them, many of which have to be 
 unlocked generally by beating tournaments and that kind of thing. Each character is unique in their 
 strengths and weaknesses, not to mention that they all look fantastic as well. While it's nice 
 for each of them to sport their own individual abilities, some players just don't quite feel as 
 strong as others though it shouldn't be too much of an issue as if one of the players has, say, 
 a generally weak hit they'll usually make up for it in something like speed or spin for creating 
 some especially tricky to return shots. Most people who play should be able to find a character 
 that suits their playing style, and while the create-a-player feature isn't present, you'll find 
 that it's mostly because each character here has such an extraordinary amount of realism that it 
 would be hard to imagine how to support this kind of feature with such powerful graphics backing 
 the game up.
  
  The general gameplay is simple, yet quite engaging. You can use either the face buttons or the 
 right stick to put different kinds of spin on the ball. Topspin for general power, rightspin and 
 leftspin for curve and backspin to try and screw the opposing player up. Unlike most kinds of tennis 
 games and the like, you don't have to hit these buttons at the exact time the ball is served to 
 you, instead, you'll be charging up these kinds of hits and the player will pretty much hit it 
 for you, just don't expect to win by doing any kind of button-mashing. This game requires a serious 
 amount of concentration on how your opponent seems to play, and if you don't pay attention you 
 can expect to be on the losing side of the game. You can, of course, direct what way you want to 
 hit the ball while you're charging up the shot and the controller will rumble if you're about to 
 hit it out of the table, netting your opponent a point. So, say, the opponent constantly dishes 
 out hard topspins to try and overwhelm you. Facing this, the thing you would want to do is hit 
 constant backspins and other specialty shots so that the opponents barrage will backfire and eventually 
 hit the ball out. It's simple, but complicated and any seasoned sports game player (unlike myself) 
 will probably be able to pick up on stuff like this in a instant.
  
  To jazz up the basic playing, though, a "focus" feature is put in play which is in the form of 
 a meter in the top corners, one for each player. The meter starts out red and when it fills up 
 it turns yellow and turns green when you fill it up again. Whenever any of the meter levels fill 
 up to full, you go into "focus mode" where everything slows down a tad and you start hitting some 
 really powerful shots. The effect the game uses when both players go into full-focus looks pretty 
 cool, as time seems to slow down and the room darkens almost completely around you, and the match 
 starts to get really intense. You can also use some of the meter for a "focus shot" where the game 
 goes into complete slow-motion for about two seconds to show this extra-powerful shot. The focus 
 meter feature can be a bit confusing at times, but you'll eventually understand it.
  
  Also included is a standard online feature where you can either go paddle-to-paddle with players 
 all over, and go on the "Table Tennis Network" to spectate some matches and see how some of the 
 pros play. The game sacrifices a bit of the normal fluidity present when playing any offline match 
 but doesn't suffer from too many frame-rate problems unless you're playing against anyone trying 
 to run on some kind of dial-up. You can play a standard exhibition mode of varying length or a 
 time tournament where you try to get the highest score before time runs out to move onto the next 
 round. You'll probably want to get plenty of offline practice before moving onto the online leagues 
 though, as finding someone of your skill level can be challenging on it's own.
  
  The audio is a mix of about what you'd expect with some the usual sound of cheering crowds and 
 the quiet-toned ref that you'll probably be hearing a lot of. There is a soundtrack of about three 
 or four tracks that play usually in the background of the menu screens, or just when the game in 
 progress is starting to heat up. Nothing too big here, but the sound in the game does sport some 
 impressive spots. And I've already mentioned how great the game looks, as everything about the 
 players looks fantastic with the smooth animating of each character's outfits, and the sweat coming 
 from each of them as things get really intense and even starts to seep into the player's clothes. 
 Everything here looks great, and there are plenty of different areas to play in, some much different 
 from others. You won't be disappointed with this game on the technical standpoint.
  
  And though the game sports an online mode, it does get a little old after a while. But that doesn't 
 mean that Rockstar Games Present Table Tennis won't make a suitable addition to most player's collection 
 and while the game may be one of the strangest combinations of genre and game company, there isn't 
 any doubt that it may be one of the first sports games in a while to generally think outside of 
 the box for once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergamer1289
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 23, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This is just play addictive fun. The graphics are great. Also the rumble is great. When your shot 
 is going out the rumble is going out of control. Also the colour trail from behind the ball indicates 
 the kind of spin you or the oppent is using. The controls are so easy. The sound is very good. 
 This ping and pong when the ball hits your racket. For a rockstar game the sound track is prity 
 lame. For $40 this game is a must have addictive game. The dificulty of the game does get a little 
 out of hand and i was dissipointed in the fact there is no cariar mode. This game could of been 
 a lot better with a little more effort. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theone2393
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  I was really disappointed with this game, it was a total let down. It was good for the first hour 
 i played it until after then when it lost all its fun, I appreciate that its a one-of-a-kind and 
 its not been done any time recently before but still, there's not much in the game that keeps the 
 player interested. The basic game-play lets it down as its boring and just feels empty, there is 
 not much more improvement in the multi-player either, nor x-box live, its just as bland, Overall 
 I recommend that you do not buy this game unless you have borrowed it or rented it and found that 
 you have really enjoyed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aygol
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 18, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis is the newest title released by Rockstar Games. No Violence, 
 No Guns, No Explosives, Just Table Tennis at the best form. it's the first next-gen title by Rockstar 
 Games. This game use RAGE engine. This engine will use in Grand Theft Auto IV too. This game is 
 awsome. it costs 40 Bucks, not 60. This game is available only on Xbox 360. i give this game 9.5 
 out of 10. because of the amazing gameplay, good sounds, Value, and good graphics made by the RAGE 
 engine. i repeat, it's only available on Xbox 360 and no other. in offline mode, you can play with 
 your friend in versus mode. in online mode at Xbox Live, the game supports up to 8 players. You 
 can try it by downloading the Demo at Xbox Live Marketplace. it's rated E for Everyone. Special 
 Thanks to Rockstar Games for NOT putting minigames like Hot Coffee in this game.
  Just buy it and enjoy. It's only available on Xbox 360 !!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdPizzaKid111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I honestly did not expect this game to be as addictive and fun as it is, yet Rockstar games has 
 lived up to its name and created a highly addictive and fun game.
  
  Table Tennis is a little bit odd... for one thing, you might be wondering how one could have such 
 a great time hitting a little plastic ball back and fourth. Somehow Rockstar has taken a sport 
 that seems so boring, and created an addictive and fun experience for the whole family. 
  
  Sound: The sound isn't fantastic, as there is no real soundtrack. But then again, who needs distracticions 
 when you are sucked into a fun, fast paced and surprisingly intense match of Table Tennis. The 
 sound effects sound AMAZINGLY real, from the unique crisp sound (That you will learn to love) of 
 the ball hitting the table to the cheering crowd and announcer (Thats not annoying, perhaps a first 
 in the videogaming world...?) . 
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Table Tennis blew my mind. They are no where near as detailed as titles 
 such as Gears of War, but the character models look so real and so life like! Another big thing 
 that hit me was that the fans didn't look like cardboard cutouts, they actually had character models! 
 The arenas where you play that matches aren't as great as they could be, but the wide diversity 
 of arenas which you can unlock makes up for this.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game has so much to offer- yet leaves so much empty space for improvements. 
 The game has 3 main modes, one in which is like free play, one training mode (Just to give the 
 player a refreshed on how to play) , and a tournament mode. While the tournament mode is good, there 
 is no story at all. Another thing that really left me begging for a sequel is that there is no 
 way to make your own character and increase their abilities. The cast of characters you can get 
 is great, and they are all fun to unlock, not a chore. 
  
  Xbox Live: Xbox live is one of my least favorite parts of the game. The really weak points are, 
 that I have had trouble finding people to play with. The menus and custom game options are clunky 
 and feel like they were just tacked on there without anyone looking. 
  
  Overall Table Tennis is an amazing game. I still feel as though it is a mystery how Rockstar made 
 the game so enjoyable, but who really cares?
  
  For the current price of $39.99 Table Tennis is totally worth it, and is fun for players of all 
 age. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockokla4life
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant at first to go out and take this game for a test drive, but oh how I am glad that 
 I did. This game focuses primarily on the aspect well okay it focuses ALL the way on one-one grueling 
 table tennis. If any of you have watched table tennis on television these men, and women are ridiculous, 
 and have the reaction time that's just ridiculous. okay okay back to the review! the gameplay is 
 highly addictive from the second you pick up the controller your sucked in! the controls are easy 
 enough, and even a toddler, or your 50 year old dad will want to take you on reminiscing on the 
 glory days of PONG. the training mode is helpful, and is an easy 10 points to add to your growing 
 gamerscore! Xbox Live takes the cake for the best feature, beyond all the different courts, and 
 players you can unlock, the online play is what makes Rockstar's Table Tennis the best simulator 
 out there at the moment. It's easy to find a match, you may find someone with way higher skills, 
 but that's how the boat floats! All in all you'll end up getting better! So to sum it up! The price 
 $40 dollars, and the value of the gameplay make it a must have in your growing collection of games! 
 if your hesitant like me! just go out and rent it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyuzfuny
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Good memories... good memories indeed. I have had some great memories with playing Ping-Pong. It's 
 just one of those games that is always fun to play with some friends.
  
  I can say the exact same about this game.
  
  Alright, I know you've probably read all of the 
 complaints. No career mode, no create-a-player mode, etc. And I agree, it's quite frustrating not 
 to have those things. But, to me, does it really matter? Not one bit.
  
  Gameplay: It's so realistic. The physics are really quite accurate and everything is very fluid. 
 The controls are tight, allowing you to place the ball where you please, which is a huge bonus. 
 But most importantly, it's fun!
  
  Graphics: I have a standard tv set-up. It still looks absolutely fantastic! The sweat just drips 
 of the player, and makes their shirt wet. The models look fantastic and the arenas do their job 
 just fine.
  
  Sound: Again, it does what is necessary. If it had a lot of stuff as far as sound goes, it would 
 be over the top. It's never distracting from the intense gameplay. The sound effects also sound 
 great, which makes a complete package.
  
  Value: As far as the tournaments go, their isn't much in the replayability department, but multiplayer 
 is fantastic. Playing over Live with this game is one of the best things I've ever done in gaming. 
 No noticeable lag and a great set-up.
  
  So, this game is really a must have for all of you that have played Ping-Pong at one time or another... 
 especially if you have Live!
  
  Positives:
  + Ultra-Realistic physics
  + It's fun
  + The graphics look fantastic
  + The multiplayer is great
  + Pleasing sound effects
  + Tough 
 A. I.
  
  Negatives:
  - No career mode
  - No create-a-player
  - There aren't more of these games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon-RE4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Rockstars have really come with a great Table-Tennis game which i think had never been seen that 
 great in the whole era-Table Tennis-A great sports game on graphics and gameplay. Any player would 
 really enjoy playin the game with the great sweaty HD players and challenging modes and greatly 
 designed tables which provide great realism to the game. I"d SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS AAAAAAAAAAAAAA YYYYYYYYYYYYYYY
 
  TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT HHHHHHHHHHH EEEEEEEEEEEEE
  GAME
  
  Now this really prooves to be a great game in the sports 
 edition and looks great on the XBOX 360! The sound goes great too and same does the commentry too. asdsdaasdasdasdasd 
 Ok okokokok. Table Tennis is worth playing too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ImTheBFR
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  When I was first told how fun this game was I kind of had to laugh. But if you have been around 
 long enough you will know that some times the best games on any platform have been the odd balls 
 out of left field.
  
  Graphics wise it is fantastic. The emotions the models show is great, they have a very completed 
 look and I have not observed any collision errors that I have seen in other high profile games. 
 The back grounds are a tad sparce but people waving in the back ground would just be distracting. 
 
  
  Control is pretty good with options of buttons vs right stick when it comes to ball control. I 
 still prefer the buttons as I feel I have a little more control. I like the inclusion of colored 
 cues on the ball to know how it is spinning. It does help with shot selection but at higher levels 
 you really need to plan moves a head vs always being reactive.
  
  The A/I over all is good, though each player seems to have it's weeknesses that come out a little 
 like Mike Tysons boxing on the NES. I guess with any one on one game be it fighting or sports it 
 will just happen. Granted thier short comings become harder to exployit as difficulty goes up.
 
  
  One line the game fucntions well for some nice one on one. Thus far match ups have been pretty 
 close so that has been nice.
  
  Overall I have to gives this two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dna33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Spent about 4+ hours playing it (only got today) and the game is awesome, looks great and when 
 it works I can't put the controller down.... but it working isn't all the time.
  
  The control system is rather poor, trying to do topspin + right spin is an awkward hard position 
 if your not using the stick and so is rarely pushed properly, if it is pushed properly one of three 
 things can happen.
  1. The game will allow to aim and stop moving as it should
  2. Your character will run as you aim and so you tend to miss the ball. This isn't bad timing on 
 my part, I can still aim and shoot as normal, but my character still moves.
  3. Your character will swing instantly causing you to miss, and chances of getting another swing 
 in are minute.
  
  On top of that, the height you hit the ball is varied on the same shot.. I can hold down full up 
 and hit the bottom of the net, or miss the table 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Many laughed at the idea of Rockstar Games, creators of the infamous Grand Theft Auto, tackling 
 something as pure and family friendly as table tennis, but thats just what theyve done, and overall, 
 theyve done it quite well. Playing more or less like Top Spin, Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis 
 introduces some subtle but helpful hints that really increase the fluidity and strategy of the 
 traditional tennis gameplay. It also looks great and features an online component that can be fiercely 
 competitive and fun. Unfortunately, beyond a one-on-one, basic match of table tennis, theres not 
 much else here, and the extreme dearth of features and game modes is the only thing that keeps 
 Table Tennis from getting an all-out recommendation.
  
  Youll notice the moment the main menu pops up that Table Tennis is a little light on content, 
 offering Tournaments (of which there are four of ascending length and difficulty) , Exhibition matches, 
 and a Training program thatll teach you ins and outs of Table Tennis gameplay, and although youre 
 probably ready to jump right in if youve played other tennis games, its worth going through the 
 training anyway, since this game has some new features you havent seen before.
  
  There are four types of shots in the game; topspin, backspin, and left and right spin, and each 
 of these is mapped to a face button. The ball will have a color-coded tracer to tell you which 
 type of shot was used last; for example, using topspin (which is mapped to the A button) will 
 cause a green tracer behind it. This lets you decide which shot you want to utilize to counter 
 your opponents hit. Youll also be able to use soft shots to throw off the pacing off the ball 
 and really catch your opponent off-guard.
  
  Of course, youll also be able to aim your shots with the left stick once you hold down a button 
 and begin winding up. This is an area where Table Tennis really innovates. If your aim starts to 
 go near the edge of the table, your controller will begin to rumble. If youre aiming off the table, 
 youll get a large amount of force feedback. This gives you just enough time to fine-tune your 
 aim. Needless to say, if you really pay attention to the various queues Table Tennis offers you, 
 youll be a pro in no time.
  
  Beyond smart and intuitive controls, Table Tennis also really nails the speed of the sport. Once 
 you get a nice rally going, things really start to get speedy, and if someone is unlucky enough 
 to hit too late and cause the ball to bounce upget ready for that return smash coming your way.
 
  
  The online works pretty good, for the most part. Like any Xbox Live offering, youll have the choice 
 between Quick and Custom matches, but it seems to have trouble getting you connected to a game, 
 and it can often take three or four tries for it to finally put you in a game. There is usually 
 some light lag, but it has surprisingly little effect on playing the game; only in one match was 
 returning the ball a little difficult.
  
  Graphically, the game looks excellent and is one of the few games released in a while that doesnt 
 go nuts with a bunch of crazy effects. From the courts to the audience to the players themselves, 
 Table Tennis presents a consistently sharp, detailed style. The players are the real stars of the 
 show, with their clothing realistically draping and moving off their bodies and their faces properly 
 emoting. Of course, theres the obligatory sweat effects used in all the Xbox 360 sports titles. 
 The audio is quite minimalistic, but whats there works well, with a collection of paddle noises 
 and grunts from the characters, along with some light, generic techno tracks that sound when your 
 rally starts to add up. Some subdued but effective crowd noises are here as well.
  
  Theres a great game of table tennis to be found here, between its visual and physical cues and 
 fast-paced, visceral action. However, the presence of only one game type, with no variants, careers 
 modes, create-a-player options or anything else, really hurts the value of the package. Even at 
 $50, its recommended you rent Table Tennis first and then decide whether a purchase is in order. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgtGizmo92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Surprisingly Table Tennis is an awesome game. The gameplay is easy to pick up and is extremely 
 addictive. There isn't a lot of stuff you would expect to be in a sports game such as create-a-player 
 or even really much of a career mode, but it doesn't even need it. The gameplay is that good. This 
 game is especially great online where you can do exhibition matches and tournaments. The graphics 
 are also amazing, especially the player models which are some of the best on the XBOX 360. The 
 sound is solid, when there are not many sounds in ping pong, but it is surprising to see no licensed 
 songs like Rockstar normally has. I would highly recommend this to any XBOX 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Well when i first heard of this game i laughed because its about ping-pong, so i said to myself 
 that i had to give it a shot and so i did and its actually a pretty good game non the less. When 
 you play this game the first thing you might notice is the great graphics that it has and other 
 is the gameplay is pretty good also the sweat on the players shirt is kinda cool but overall this 
 is not a game that you should buy if your looking for a game with rackets stick with the top spin 
 franchise.
  
  The Good: Graphics, online play, gameplay, cool slow-mo shots, real easy to play.
  
  The Bad: 
 Single play difficulty, gets annoying on some of the higher difficulties, takes a long time to 
 complete 1 set.
  
  Achievements: Medium 
  
  As i said before this game is good even though this isnt what rockstar is know for also this game 
 has no violent at all which shocked me because you would think everything Rockstar has been through 
 they would at least let you throw a racket at some dudes head but you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miller_7766
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  Table Tennis is great game for a few reasons. 
  1 It is highly addictive
  2 It is easy to learn
  3 Online fame
  
  The first thing you should do is go and complete 
 the training it will take no longer than 30mins as the controls are easy to get into. The game 
 is really fast paced with opponents having skills in particular attributes or being well rounded. 
 
  
  The controls are simple but when moving around using the analog sticks are highly sensitive you 
 might want to move slightly and end up at the other side of the room though other then that the 
 controls are great.
  
  The graphics of the game are truly great you can see the sweat and sometimes even the veins of 
 characters. The arenas are shiny and light which adds to the effect of a match the tables have 
 been coloured nicely.
  
  The games sounds are disappointing as all the sounds are just grunts and shouts of the fans with 
 occasional comments from an announcer.
  
  The game is a real value for money as when you finally unlock everything you can take it live for 
 ultamate bragging rights and its the same for multi player. If your alone your can play the computer 
 players to increase your skills.
  
  Overall the game is enjoyable and fun to watch and play. The only disappointment though is that 
 there's no doubles. I hope there will be a sequel with more features with doubles included. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cromonic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I got my copy of this game yesterday. I loaded the disc and started to play... oh my god... this 
 **** is fun! Good old fashioned family entertainment. Well, there's a few problems with it... like 
 it would be even better with a big character creation section. Maybe a more in depth career play... 
 But that is something that can be forgiven, since the gameplay is so frickin awesome! If you have 
 any friends to play with, it's even more fun. The single player mode is short and you'll get tired 
 of it quickly. However the online mode could be a real killer. So my bottom line is, "run to you 
 local dealer and buy this baby!!!!" You're going to have a blast with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubleF
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 10, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is very good. Some of the things I like about this are the visuals, movements, 
 well balanced difficulty, uniqueness, online, and much more. I think the only part that I did not 
 enjoy was the lack of a create a player option although it isn't neccessary becuase there is a 
 well mix of players. The main aspect i enjoyed is the fact that there isnt anything else like this 
 available. The online gameplay is super smooth and the acheivmements are aren't to hard, they are 
 well mixed and just right for the average player. There are many different unlockables including 
 jerseys and different tables to play on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Making this straight to the point.
  
  It's simple to learn, difficult to master. It's very fun and can be enjoyed by both hardcore and 
 casual gamers. Gamers without patience, need not apply... as you will get frusterated blaming the 
 game on the most absurd "flaws" (like the person below me) . 
  
  Visually the game is stunning, one of the better 360 games in the graphics department. Every detail 
 is taken into account and really helps bring the experience to life. 
  
  The XBL portion is great, you can play single games or tournament. There's no slow-down or lag, 
 which is a huge benefit.
  
  only downside is no career mode... otherwise this game is near perfection. And the fact that its 
 so cheap now, makes the deal better.
  
  Is MUCH better than any tennis game ive ever played... one of the better sports games ever created. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halomaster1211
Rating: 4.7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Being as bored as I was, I decided to make a trip down to EB Games today and pick up Table Tennis. 
 I figure hey, it's only $39.99 right? Even if it's pretty "bleh", at least its cheaper than $60. 
 After playing this game for a few painstakingly long hours, which I only did for you guys/gals 
 benefit :) , it's safe to say that Rockstar needs to just come out and say, "We can't make decent 
 A. I. We just can't." Don't get me wrong, the game has its high points. In fact, let's just jump 
 right to my Game Breakdown without further delay.
  
  Graphics: Good. The players will work up a sweat as the match progresses. Arenas look decent enough. 
 Overall, everything is crisp. There's not much to say because this one is pretty straightforward. 
 Clothes flow with characters movements well. That's really all you see when you play graphically. 
 
  
  Control: Oh man is this going to be a mixed bag. Personally, I wanted a pick-up-and-play scheme. 
 Just grab the controller and go at it. But for a game that theoretically targets the "casual gamer" 
 crowd, easy to play this one is NOT. Even playing the game now, I struggle with trying to put spin 
 on the ball while my character moves around like a drunken chimp. There are many, MANY times in 
 this game when I would mean to strike the ball, but instead wind up making my character stumble. 
 Let me explain, because I'm sure there are alot of people out there who are very curious as to 
 how the control setup for a game like this could possibly be confusing. Okay, the left thumbstick 
 moves your character right, left, forward, and back. The RIGHT thumbstick controls spin. Sound 
 easy? Well.. not so fast. To make a "focus shot" (wtf are power shots doing in a table tennis game?? 
 Ever since EA made the very first Gamebreakers, every developer and their mother have been ripping 
 it off. STOP!) , you'll need to move the right stick in conjunction with holding down the right 
 bumper. Sound easy? Try picturing it. Moving the left stick, adjusting spin with the right stick, 
 and holding the bumper at the same time, all while in the midst of lightning fast gameplay. Being 
 honest, after about an hour's worth of play, my right wrist was cramping up. Of course, if you're 
 apparently REALLY good, the different kinds of spin are mapped to the X, A, B, and Y buttons. WHAT?? 
 WHY??? You STILL have to place the shot too.. and that's what really sucks. The left thumbstick 
 directs the ball. It also moves your character. See where this is going? You can only direct where 
 you want the ball to go AFTER you have built up your spin and before the ball actually gets to 
 you. If the A. I. puts top spin on the ball, you're screwed and that's it. That, or you'll pop it 
 up for a ridiculously easy score for the computer. All in all, the control setup reeks BAD.
  
  Sound: "Ping.... Ping.... Ping...".. you get the idea. There's not much going on in this one. 
 My favorite part was how the crowd will chant for your character when its match point in the final 
 set. Pretty cool I have to say. Characters mumble too much to actually hear what they're saying, 
 so I'm not sure about the voiceovers.
  
  Entertainment/Gameplay: I was really into this one.... for about half an hour. Then the repitition 
 killed it. If you have a bunch of friends to play with, and can handle the absolutely horrid controls, 
 you could have a party game here. There is Xbox Live competition as well if that interests you. 
 The most annoying thing about this game is definitly the cheap-as-heck A. I. Most matches, they 
 practically hand you the first set (assuming you have the default settings and are playing best 
 of three. Also, the character Liu Ping is absurdly good 100% of the time.. I guess that's why he's 
 on the cover of the instruction book...) Then, look out. Just like fighting games do when you finally 
 get your opponents life low and they haven't touched you the entire match, the stupid gorilla on 
 the other side of the table turns into Pete Sampras just like that. You're up 9 to nothing one 
 second, and the next, you lose 11-9. I can not stress enough the cheapness of the A. I. in this 
 game. There were times when I was playing that every time I returned the ball to their side of 
 the court, it "popped up", and they spiked it for an easy point. Not to mention some of the returns 
 the A. I. manages are nothing short of laughable. There were times when I was literally laughing 
 out loud at the A. I.'s ability to return spikes. But you will never return theirs. This game is 
 frustration in a box no doubt. Play with friends, but don't play alone. Which, unfortunately, you 
 will have to do if you want to unlock more than the THREE people that are available when you turn 
 the game on. 
  
  I was really up for something different and once again Rockstar proved that they can mess up anything, 
 even something as fundamental as Table Tennis. I just knew, back when I first heard they were going 
 to make the game, it was going to suck. But as time went on, I decided maybe I was being too judgemental 
 too early and I should give them a chance. I say here and now, with full confidence, that I will 
 never again purchase a Rockstar product. Control and ridiculously unbalanced A. I. are the double-faults 
 of this game. If you're really bored, and have played everything else, I could recommend this for 
 a rental if you're looking for multiplayer. For a purchase, well, even at $40 you're getting ripped. 
 I thought Rumble Roses was the biggest stinker so far for 360. But I may have been proven wrong 
 right here with Table Tennis. This game scores decent for graphics and sound. That is it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheKretinousQ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  When I initially saw that GTA giants Rockstar were going to make a game of Table Tennis, I laughed. 
 When I saw the demo on Marketplace I saw it was far from a joke. 
  I only downloaded it the other day and now I own it. 
  
  Anyway the game. It's only a snip 
 at half the price and some may say for good reason. However there is plenty of things to do and 
 unlock with online play it also extends the lifespan. 
  
  Graphics on here are SUPERB and not much is as good as it apart from the obvious titles. Characters 
 are heavily detailed and so are the stages and the sound is as real as possible.
  
  Gameplay and controls are easy to pick up but no where near easy to master however the training 
 does help!
  
  It's a great game and should not be overlooked especially at the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reffgs
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Ill start off by saying that this game is susprisingly better then you would think it is. What 
 makes this such a great game. Is that the gameplay is very fast pased and exciting. You will see 
 that the game is easy to learn. But hard to master. One game type you can play is exhibition wich 
 is your everday match against the ai. Then theres the tournement mode wich can get really hard 
 on hard setting wich mite make you frustrated at times. Then theres the online mode. Wich is probablly 
 the best part about the game. WHen playing against other peole the matches can get very competive 
 and nerve racking. But in a very fun way. Theres a pretty good amount of characters in the game. 
 Theres surely enough for you to find the one that fits you. As the graphics go they are very solid. 
 Great looking character models and table tennis board... But other then that theres not much to 
 look at. The sound is very solid. But there are some cheesy victory cheers from some of the players. 
 This is a great game that will keep pushing you to get better and better. I recomend this to anyone 
 that loking for a good fast paced game at a low prce. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  At first, I, like many laughed at the thought of Table Tennis... particularly by Rockstar. I pictured 
 a cross between outlaw tennis, gtaIII and who knows what.
  
  I got it on my gamefly account (I think I have all the 360 games somewhere on the list) and it 
 arrived in the mail. Again, I put it in sceptically, but once I started playing, I began to see 
 the game for what it was. A Good sim game of a niche sport. 
  
  Gameplay - The basics are pretty easy, just about anyone can lift up the controller and play. Doing 
 well however is a different matter if you want to get off the easy level. Practice and you should 
 be able to get pretty far along.
  
  Graphics - The best part of the game is the graphics. The characters look awesome. The movements 
 seem almost human and the expressions... wow.
  
  Sound - The sounds were pretty good, but overall the game is very quiet. Of course I guess if you 
 are playing pro table tennis, it must be a quiet arena, sorta like golf.
  
  Value - Should be an early bargin title, but I don't know about full price yet. Rent it, give it 
 a try... you mightjust like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slice267
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Rarely does a game come around that evokes that old school nostalgia from my pre-N64/PS1 gaming 
 years. Rockstar Games Table Tennis did exactly that with its simplistic easy to pick up, but hard 
 to master theme. Something about this game lit a fire under my butt and sprung me into to action. 
 Its very competitive and extremely intense, which makes it a great party game.
  
  Character movement in the game is realistic in that actual steps are taken by the players from 
 along the end of the table. As opposed to a character sliding across youre screen in an unrealistic 
 fashion. It makes sense to incorporate this into the game, but it does have its shortcomings. It 
 is easy to accidentally move youre player away from the ball making the slightest move in the 
 opposite direction. Changing direction from left to right isnt instant either. Some of these players 
 look like they are in their late 30s so youd come to expect that changing direction would take 
 a second or two. This does make character control seem sluggish, but its all for the sake of realism. 
 Granted, this may not seem like a big deal now, but when you have an intense 100+ rally building 
 up with the crowd cheering and music blaring, it can be quite frustrating. The game does implement 
 a few new features to Tennis style game play, which I think games like Top Spin should also adopt. 
 For Example, when you strike the ball and aim for a corner youre controller will begin to rumble 
 to alert you that you are aiming very close to the edge. When youre aiming goes off the table 
 the controller will rumble even more to alert you to aim back at the table quickly. During a match 
 it is very useful. Also a new feature called focus shots was implemented. The longer you hold the 
 button to hit the ball the more youre meter will fill up. When it fills up entirely you strike 
 the ball either faster or with more spin depending on youre shot. When you first fill the meter 
 this will only last for 2-3 hits at most, but when you fill it 3 times you get a green meter where 
 youre focus can last a lot longer. When both players have their focus maxed out the level goes 
 dark and a bright light shines on the table which makes for some really intense moments.
  
  This is game can be easily taught to anyone in a minimum of 10 minutes. Its easy to pick up and 
 play with its simple tutorials. Advanced techniques on the other hand the game leaves up to you 
 to find out and create. You can come up with your own style of play. After you finish with youre 
 tutorials youre free to do an exhibition match or play in a tournament. Youre first tournaments 
 are basic easy matches, but as you progress it becomes mercilessly difficult. On the higher difficulty 
 settings it once took me somewhere around 4-5 hours just to defeat this one player. That is until 
 I got really serious and changed my whole play style. Unfortunately for the single player this 
 is all you have to do. There is no career mode, create-a-player, doubles or anything to supplement 
 those two modes I listed. There are unlockables that will occupy youre time for awhile, but other 
 than that there isnt much to do. This is why this game is not for everyone. 
  
  If you do not have Xbox Live or do not plan on renewing it, I suggest renting this game. If you 
 have Xbox Live consider the 40$ purchase for it because Xbox Live is the best part of the game. 
 There are ranked Exhibition Matches and Online Tournaments that range from 4-8 players. The sad 
 thing about the tournaments is that sore losers tend to drop out after the first match, which really 
 makes it a bummer for his/her opponent who has to sit out the next match because of it. Other than 
 that the online is great. There are leaderboards so you can track youre progress and the online 
 achievements are really satisfy.
  
  Table Tennis plays realistically, but how does it look? Everything shown to you onscreen, which 
 isnt much (2 players, table and ball) , Looks and Feels Like it came straight out of the real world. 
 Players will develop sweat stains gradually through the match, Sweat will glisten on their skin, 
 and Their Clothing will sway back and forth in a realistic way. Other than that there isnt much 
 to look at. The levels that do include crowds have them mostly off the screen. In addition to the 
 great graphical detail gone into the player models the sound supplements it very well, except for 
 people that find the occasional techno music that chimes annoying. Crowds will cheer on youre 
 representing country when youre serving for game point. Youll also hear them shout realistically 
 when you screw up on a rally. Rockstar also did a good job replicating that arena sound. People 
 will hush others to be quiet when you are about to serve. When you serve it is dead quiet and you 
 occasionally hear someone drop a bottle or walk around.
  
  Is Table Tennis worth the 40 dollars? Well if you have Xbox Live, yes it is. If not well I suggest 
 renting it first or consider spending the extra cash on the online features. Because how long can 
 you suppress youre feelings to win a 100+ rally and jump up and down screaming with joy? I know 
 I cant.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I think this game was pretty good for the first one of the series. I am sure after the success 
 that the game has had it will continue to come out every year like a baseball or football series. 
 
  
  I do feel there is a lot more work if they plan on making more than just this one. For one there 
 are only about 10 characters to choose from, and there is no created player mode. Although it is 
 fun to play online, I think it would be much better to play as yourself. There are a few different 
 modes to choose from, but I feel there should be a lot more options. The graphics are excellent 
 and the game runs pretty smooth, but I think with the addition of created players and maybe a season 
 mode then it would be awesome. I think this is a good start, and I hope there are more to come.
 
  
  Definetly rent the game first because I can see how it would get boring quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LITEMYFIRE
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much to say about this game. I mean, it is a game about ping pong. The graphics are 
 very good, the gameply and controls are pretty simple. Online mode is fun. Uh.... Theres alot of 
 unlockables.... And thats about all I can say.
  
  You should probally rent the game first. If your one of those people who just kinda buy games (yes, 
 some people are like that) But this game does get old. I mean its just the ball going back and 
 forth. It wont last you long. You should definatly rent it but I'm not sure if buying it is smart. 
 
  
  Also, you may not even like the game (maybe you'll think its boring from the start) So let me wrap 
 it up. Very good gameplay, very good graphics, good difficulty. But it just gets OLD.
  
  -Jon R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnderAll
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  RockStar? What Comes into your Mind when someone says that to you? GTA? Stealing Cars and Shooting 
 the Police?.. Well you wouldn't expect them to make a Table Tennis Game!?!
  
  Rockstar Have made a Beautiful Version of the game of Table Tennis by Presenting this.. For the 
 Xbox 360.. And To Be Honest... It Looks Beau-ti-ful.. The Character Models Look So Detailed You 
 Can Even See them Sweat through their Shirts..!
  
  The Game Is what you expect to pay for... Table Tennis.. But you May think it may get boring . 
 But its not! The Gameplay is Fast and Very Quick.. And Makes you React.
  
  This is a Game you must Rent.. I personally don't think its a Buy game.. But its worth a Rent.. 
 So get a group of your Best chums , an Xbox 360 and this game.. and you will be having a good time 
 :)
  
  Kai / Underall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munkybut
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 30, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  ... it's a f***ing ping-pong game.
  
  Why would anyone want to pay for a game, and then sit through the loading times just to play ping-pong!? 
 GO OUTSIDE! This is only a game about ping-pong, sure its pretty as hell, but its still just a 
 overrated pong game!
  
  Game makers, please dont insult our intelligence by releasing this crap. Next they are going to 
 release some amazing looking game where you just walk, or mabye a game where you control the guy 
 playing counter-strike. 
  
  3/10.
  
  And the 3 is only because, at the very least, they spent some time on the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  Table Tennis is one of those games that doesn't have a lot of features, but the core material is 
 so well done that you don't really care. And at $40, you can't really go wrong. The game features 
 ping pong at its best. 
  
  What's Good: 
  As stated in the Gamespot review, the player models are very well done and the overall graphics 
 are pretty darn impressive -- kind of funny to think of how far we've come from the original "Pong." 
 Things can really get exciting when you get a rally going, as the game has this subtle way of darkening 
 everything around you during intense moments, which is cool. There are also plenty of unlockables, 
 which makes playing through the game worthwhile. The gameplay seems simplistic on its face, but 
 can take hours to master, and then maybe a few more hours after that. 
  
  What Could be Better:
  Better mini-games to master the different techniques, a la Virtual Tennis. 
 Others have said it and I agree, this game would rock with a career mode. It would also be fun 
 to have a two on two mode. The music in the game is excruciating. Also, after a particularly painful 
 defeat, you may want to pull a Grand Theft Auto moment on your opponent, but unfortunately, aren't 
 given the option. Oh well. 
  
  What's Ugly:
  The pain of beating the Pro circuit. After the South Korean guy beats you for the 5th time in a 
 row, you may need to pop in Fight Night to release your unbridled aggression.
  
  So what's the net net? This game is definitely worth playing, at least rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverender
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Im as surprised as you are at my score for this game. Seriously, 
 who would have thought a next-gen ping-pong game would be good, let alone great? Not this guy, 
 thats for sure! And to make this whole situation even more absurd - I went out and bought it the 
 day after it was released and having only played it for about an hour previously.
  
  From the get-go I was fully impressed with Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis. The player models 
 are some of the best Ive ever seen. Its hard to believe theyre not pre-rendered at times. The 
 way clothing hangs off the players looks so realistic and their mannerisms are perfect. Reactions 
 to missed shots or when the ball goes out of play are instantaneous and once again, perfect. They 
 really put a lot of effort into making the players look and act as realistic as possible and man, 
 did they ever do an amazing job! Were in for a treat if GTA 4 looks as good as Table Tennis.
 
  
  To get you going, theres brief training exercises which walk you through the mechanics of the 
 game and give you a quick run-down of the rules. At first, it felt like there was a lot to remember, 
 but after a couple of matches I fully had the hang of it and was kicking ass and taking names. 
 There are four basic shots - left and right spin, and topsin and backspin. You can control how 
 hard you hit the ball using the shoulder bumpers - left is for soft shots while right will hit 
 harder and faster. The balls landing position on the opposite side of the table is determined 
 by you as well using the left thumbstick to aim for your shots. Table Tennis makes use of the rumble 
 feature in a way that Ive not seen before. If your shot is going to land close to the edge of 
 the table or the net, it will start shaking. When it shakes wicked bad, youll end up out of bounds. 
 So you have a split second to correct yourself if youve botched your shot.
  
  Each player is totally unique and it will take you a game or two to really get the hang of using 
 them. Some are more finesse players that are great at spins and more accurate. And others are more 
 on the brute force end of the scale. Which brings me to Jesper. When I was played against Jesper 
 I got absolutely destroyed two games in a row. I think I might have scored two or three points 
 per game. The dude is 64, 240 pounds and beats the hell out of the ball. Hes got 
 a forehand shot like no other and will totally annihilate you if you deliver him a shot to his 
 forehand. It took me a while to figure out how to beat him, but you basically have to return all 
 soft shots and direct them at his backhand. If you try and beat him by rallying at full force, 
 youll get your ass handed to you. Youll see me use this method in the gameplay video and take 
 him down for the win. Most of the time he seems to get frustrated with your soft shots and will 
 slug it back and hit it out.
  
  This game is super fun to play online, but it has its down sides as well. A lot of people seem 
 to be sticking to Jesper since hes such a powerhouse. Its gotten to the point where I back out 
 of a game as soon as I see him now. Its just cheap. But a bigger problem occurs if you have a 
 slower connection or are experiencing a slow down. Some times your opponents player will just stand 
 there and not even move while his/her shots are still being returned. The first couple times this 
 happened it totally threw me off as I thought the ball had bounced off of them or they just missed 
 it all together. Meanwhile, the ball is headed back in my direction and Im busy **** cause I 
 think I just scored a point. Doh! Other than that, its a lot of fun to play with your buddies.
 
  
  I really didnt think I would end up with a sports game in my collection. Not to mention, a ping-pong 
 game! But Table Tennis is just great fun and easy to just pick up and play. Ive even played a 
 few games with my 7 year-old daughter who had no problem learning the controls and how to use the 
 various shots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebel108
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This sports game is very fun, addicting, and serious. Although it is short, it has lots of replay 
 value. The sound is beautiful, and I don't think I've ever heard the crowd say the same thing more 
 than twice. The graphics are breathtaking; as the match goes on, the players start to sweat and 
 the wrinkles in their clothes is visible. There are 11 unique players, each with their own stance 
 and style. All the players are very different than the others. Playing this game on Xbox Live is 
 a blast. There is practically no lag. The only thing I would want more would be a career mode where 
 your character could have a house which has a style depending on the nationality your character 
 is. In addition doubles would be nice. This game is worth the money for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w00t_2006
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  At first, my thoughts were, "What a stupid idea for a game for the 360". But I decided to give 
 this chance just because Gamespot gave it a good score, and it turns out, this game was great! 
 Superb graphics, and great gameplay! Basically in the game, to serve you hold down the one of the 
 A, B, X, Y, or tilt the right analog sitck, then when the ball comes to you, you also press one 
 of the A, B, X, Y buttons. So it's a pretty simple game. Simple, but lots of fun. And the good 
 thing is, this game is very cheap considering that most Xbox 360 games are up in the $60 range. 
 The pesron who was announcer in the game sounded pretty bored. So overall, if you want to play 
 a simple, fun and addictive game. Pick up Table Tennis today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Table Tennis is a highly addictive game and its a game so easy to start off playing. And 
 thats about as easy as it gets. while playing in tournaments you go get passes other players pretty 
 fast. but the champions are tough enough to piss you off. 
  gameplay - simple. take the tutorial and you'll be fine. perfect all of them to get an achievements 
 and be ready to take on other players on or offline. 
  you have four different types of hits. top spin, defense spin, left and right spin. with these 
 and using your analog sticks your can prefect you skills and target any area of the table.
  
  online - online play is great. many players are online so you will always have a challenge. 
 achievements online are nor only hard but will take a long time to achieve.
  
  overall - this is a great game to BUY!. I can see one trading this game in but if your patient 
 and give the game a chance, this game will having you missing work.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beloweryjr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  Tabletennis is a good start for an adult company to make an addictive sports game you can tell 
 they put alot of effort into this game to make it good graphics wise it is excellent bump mapping 
 normal mapping cloth physics and sweat what more can u ask for in a sports game? in the gameplay 
 department its folded nicely on each shelf with topspin left spin right spin and backspin each 
 has its own unique feel with different characters (my favorite is Jesper) . the only complaint i 
 have with the gameplay is that sometimes you hit the ball out a little to often a meter wouldnt 
 hurt , but oh well. The audio is wierd but catchy when u get into those 90 and up rallies you will 
 get some great techno that will pump u up and when both of the players get full focus oh boy you 
 are in for a treat. I am gonna be honest with yall alright this game will not last long unless 
 you have xbox live. Sure the difficulty will kick up in higher levels when you get really good 
 you will want more and the computer cheats a little but all in all its a good game that i think 
 will sell well until grand theft auto IV see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hydrolite
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis is a hallmark game in the history of videogames. It shows 
 that a game doesn't have to have a lot of flash or over the top violence to be successful. Rockstar 
 focused on the pure gameplay and it shows. Along with this Rockstar made simplistic menus and presentation 
 that really compliment the game.
  
  Rockstar was able to capture the intensity of the real sport and makes it simplistic enough for 
 new players to pick up and enough depth for the most experienced among us. The gameplay comes at 
 you fast and furious and is very enjoyable. The ball comes at you so fast you have to be able to 
 think fast or you will lose a lot. The streamlined controls allow for the player to easily control 
 the action and do it easily. This will be the benchmark in controls for future tennis games. 
 
  
  The sounds are always very crisp and extremly well done. The crowd reacts realisticly to the action 
 and feels as though they are truly into the game. The paddle and ball sounds are extremly realistic 
 and sounds perfect. The only demerit in this category is the voice overs. There is just something 
 out of place about them. However when characters speak it is very brief and really isn't a dialogue 
 just sighs and cheers.
  
  The presentation is in my opinion flawless. It is not over the top or anything. It just presents 
 the game for what it is and focuses on the gameplay. The stadium lighting and the general locations 
 look great but are familar. The menus are extremly accessible. 
  
  The player models are absolutely beautiful. Everything is beautifully detailed and just pretty. 
 The player animations are extremly fluent never get "clunky". The ball physics are realistic and 
 extremely believable. Overall this game gets an A+ in the graphics department.
  
  Rockstar Games presents Tabble Tennis is an excellent game and another feather in the hat of Rockstar 
 Games. It shows that Rockstar can have hits other than the GTA series and asserts them to the top 
 of gaming world. Heres hoping that Rockstar will give us another installment of this great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E2ESQUARE
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  When Rockstar announced that they were planning to produce a table tennis game for Xbox 360 running 
 on an all new engine, I was a bit skeptical. A developing company famous for Grand Theft Auto taking 
 on a sport like ping pong? With Table Tennis, Rockstar moved away from free roaming games, which 
 was the forte that they had become so famous in. It was a bit far fetched, but make no mistake, 
 my opinion changed the second I played my first game.
  
  As far as table tennis games go, this is the best. Granted, there aren't very many games that are 
 solely ping pong (if any, I am not sure) , but RPTT is the best one.
  
  Table Tennis is officially categorized as an action game despite the generally slow nature of its 
 game play. The speed of the game is only fast paced on higher difficulty settings when you and 
 your opponent are using focus mode to smash the ball, otherwise the hit/miss game play mechanics 
 are a bit slow, and because of this. Also, the game can feel just slightly undercooked at times 
 because its just table tennis and that alone is limited in scope. Traditional tennis has an epic 
 feel because it has a direct connection/correspondence to the professional athletes and the tangible 
 global attraction to the sport. Since ping pong does not have the popularity or attraction factor 
 that Wimbledon does, the small scale feels even smaller, almost too small for an entire game. With 
 no real life characters in Table Tennis the attraction to RPTT is purely for the love of the sport, 
 which might not be enough for some gamers.
  
  Offline this game shines pretty brightly. It has 4 challenge levels (amateur, rookie, pro, all 
 star) each of which offer balanced difficulty. Problem is that for such a simple game, the learning 
 curve is extreme. You will lose your first few games miserably and it wont feel good. You have 
 4 types of hits (left curve, right curve, top spin, and backspin) and these correspond to the face 
 buttons (of the same color) or the right thumb stick. Your character moves with the left thumb 
 stick. You can charge your hits for extra power after you have completed several volleys, and power 
 hits are the keys to winning. Power hits can be used either automatically by storing up energy, 
 or by using focus by hitting either of the bumpers prior to striking the ball. Spins can also be 
 combined for special serves. Because of the simple 5 button nature of Table Tennis, it is a fairly 
 simple game, and thats both appropriate and a shortcoming for Table Tennis. The simplicity makes 
 the game easy to understand and works well with the sport itself, but it offers no room for depth. 
 The simple hit, smash, block and move strategy the game employs is extremely difficult to master, 
 but RPTT doesnt really give you a good reason to. Once you complete the first amateur circuit, 
 you will have seen every curve and twist that the game has to offer. So in a sense, the game's 
 simplicity is its best and worst aspect. It is fun while it lasts, but that wont be very long 
 at all. I had a hard time living through the first 2 circuits, and after a brief stint online I 
 was ready to bring the game back, which took less than 2 hours.
  
  The campaign is composed of 2 modes: Exhibition and Tournament. Exhibition involves simply making 
 a quick custom made match with user created settings against a computer controlled players. Tournament 
 is a mode where you play in circuits and must win 2 of 3 games against your opponent to proceed. 
 The advantage to playing tournament is that you can unlock characters, clothing, arenas and achievements. 
 Both modes give a good representation of the table tennis technique and offer some challenges, 
 but its all basically the same thing. The game is so severely limited that you might not have 
 the patience and fortitude to complete all of the modes and unlock all of the rewards. Even if 
 you do unlock all the goodies and extras that Table Tennis offers, other than the additional characters, 
 none of the unlockables do anything significant for the game.
  
  The offline game is offset by a solid if not sparse 2 player vs. mode which is played with only 
 one screen (as opposed to split screen) . Its a good addition, but since there are no doubles, 
 the game falls short of great for offline multiplayer, and it ends up being just ok. If this 2 
 player mode were left out of the game, I doubt anyone would have any serious complaints.
  
  There are about 15 characters in Table Tennis, each that is meant to portray a professional Ping 
 Pong champion, and for the most part, its believable. However, as you use each of the characters, 
 you might notice that they have some identical emotions, catchphrases or actions that distract 
 from their individuality.
  However, Table Tennis suffers from a complete lack of balance between its playable characters. 
 Every character comes with their own style of play, their own incredibly good looking swing and 
 swagger from their respective country. They all scream and holler when they hit the ball and they 
 react realistically, but some are just flat out better. The game tries to even out the stats by 
 having most players have a balanced score of a cumulated value for spin, power, accuracy and serve. 
 Thing is that power and spin are important, but you can get away with low serve and accuracy if 
 you know how to play the game, so the characters that excel in those stats (Jasper from Sweden 
 is the big one) will progress to be superior players both on and offline.
  
  Online the game is at its best and worst. For one thing, it is much more enjoyable to play against 
 human opponents than the overly difficult and infallible computer controlled AI. Human players 
 are more difficult initially because bots have some tendencies, but they offer a lot more variety 
 and seem to make more mistakes in general. Online there are tournament and exhibition modes, each 
 that have their own set of achievements that correspond to winning games. Lag is the biggest problem 
 because the game can be run with relatively slow internet connections, and the host often times 
 has an advantage because they experience less of their own lag. This lag often is seen in serves 
 that never appear balls that disappear and characters that wont move, and it can get a bit frustrating. 
 Even if you find that you really enjoy RPTT online, there is a problem with finding games. There 
 just arent very many people playing this game, and I experienced 5-10 minute waits (if not longer) 
 just to play a single match.
  
  Table Tennis has one thing going for it above all else: it looks really good. The game play has 
 excellent ball physics and character models move fluidly and realistically. When you hit the ball 
 hard, you hold your hand back and come down on it with tremendous force that sends it flying over 
 your opponents head and into the crowd. When you reflect a hard hit ball you recoil to give the 
 ball some backspin. All characters growl and frown when they lose, they cheer and celebrate with 
 fist pumping when they play well, and they sweat, tire and weaken. RPTT is a very believable game 
 and it could almost be considered a table tennis simulator. It has a great feel for the sport and 
 how the game really works on a professional level.
  
  The audio in Table Tennis is good but limited. The characters have some good sounds to go with 
 their actions or emotions, and the ball sounds great bouncing off the table and whizzing through 
 the air. However, the crowd is virtually silent the entire game, and because the game requires 
 such close focus there is no background music during play leaving just the sound of the ball flying 
 across the court. You could say the audio is appropriate for a ping pong game, and RPTT does have 
 custom soundtrack options, but the lack of any in game music other than the brief intro video is 
 a bit underwhelming. If you are a stickler for games with great audio, this is not going to blow 
 you away.
  
  Table Tennis has about 30 achievements, most of which are very difficult to attain. They correspond 
 to winning games in tournament mode, unlocking characters, playing the game for 10 hours on and 
 offline, winning online and streaking wins online. Overall, if you are an achievements addict this 
 game will suffice well because there is significant challenge in collecting all 1000 points, and 
 it will require skill and patience for the online awards.
  
  To summarize, RPTT is a great game of Ping Pong that accurately captures the spirit of the real 
 sport, even if it fails to be as entertaining or as intense. Its very simple, but rewards practice 
 with skill. It is difficult and will take hours to complete even at the most basic level. However, 
 because the game play is so sparse, it probably wont hold your attention for very long. The 40 
 dollar price point makes the game much easier to swallow but I recommend a rental to examine the 
 game and see if you really want to put 40 dollars into table tennis.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshot305
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:24 am PT
Review:  Table Tennis. probably a sport that you would never see as a game. Rockstar Games has taken a 
 sport that not many people watch and make it into a fun and addicting experience. The first thing 
 you might notice is the graphics. The character models are all crisp and clean for the new system. 
 Everything on the character looks great, even the characters clothes look awesome. The clothes 
 also seem to have there own physics. Table Tennis does a good job of keeping controls simple and 
 to the point. You use the buttons on the controller, or the joystick, to hit the ball and whatever 
 button you hit it will do a topspin or make the ball move towards the left. The A. I. is also impressive. 
 The A. I. will keep it simple in easy mode; while in hard mode will test your reaction time. There 
 are not a whole lot of people to play as in this game, but each person plays different. One person 
 might have more power, but not be good in serving or accuracy, which can completely change a game, 
 or you can have a person with good spin but no power so it may be harder to score. 
  
  Overall this is a very enjoyable game and thinks that games like this should come around more. 
 I hope to see another game like this maybe in the future.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guidone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  a very good, fast game with realistic spin very good sound, a very addictive game, fast learning 
 and the difficulty is just right.
  
  The only thing that dissapoints me in this game is the graphics: they look like the ps2: just look 
 at fifa germany advanced warfighter and chrome hounds; they look twice better than that ! 
  
  the rest is perfect: the spin looks so real when you serve or hit the ball;
  its just as 
 if your where really playing!!! 
  
  its a very addictive game (a very fast one too...) and the game is not short or long its just perfect
 
  
  COMPLIMENTS TO  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colegallop
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game. I would rent it first because it is defiantly not for everyone. Being 
 a bad table tennis player and when i say bad i mean terrible table tennis player i had a blast 
 with this game. You have a good selection of players at the start and the game play is very smooth. 
 It is a very good party game. This game got boring for me two or three weeks later. This game has 
 a nice slow motion feature in the game that makes it funner. I thought that Rockstar didn't have 
 it in them but i was very wrong and i can't wait for more games to come by them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpacers31
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  I think this game was pretty good for the first one of the series. I am sure after the success 
 that the game has had it will continue to come out every year like a baseball or football series. 
 
  
  I do feel there is a lot more work if they plan on making more than just this one. For one there 
 are only about 10 characters to choose from, and there is no created player mode. Although it is 
 fun to play online, I think it would be much better to play as yourself. There are a few different 
 modes to choose from, but I feel there should be a lot more options. The graphics are excellent 
 and the game runs pretty smooth, but I think with the addition of created players and maybe a season 
 mode then it would be awesome. I think this is a good start, and I hope there are more to come.
 
  
  Definetly rent the game first because I can see how it would get boring quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoolShark
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game simply did not have enough in it to it to be a full game. I found the first five minutes 
 of the game quite entertaining, until I finished the tutorials and was left wanting so much more. 
 The different spins make little to no difference in the gameplay as any of them can be returned 
 without moving from the middle of the table. The majority of the opponents that are controlled 
 by the computer are extremely easy and the online play adds very little to the game. If you do 
 venture online you'll find yourself in endless volleys until your hand falls asleep and your fingers 
 slip off the controller. Unless you're desperate for some points, do yourself a favor and keep 
 the money in your pocket. This game is fun for the XBOX Arcade, but falls very short of even a 
 mediocre full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake11977
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  Table Tennis by Rockstar (I guess it's called Rockstar presents Table Tennis, I'll get to this 
 in a second) proves to me that pounding a ball with some object other than a bat CAN be fun. This 
 game is ROCK SOLID. Whether it's outsmarting your opponent with tricky ball placement or making 
 your man run from side to side until he eventually out guesses you never looked so good. The graphics 
 are fantastic, and the gameplay is nearly perfect. Some of the camera views, while superflous, 
 are there to really make it feel like you could be watching the games on ESPN or something, yet, 
 when trying to play they can be distracting. I mean, if I were really playing some pingpong would 
 the world suddenly break into slow motion? Only if I were really, really high. It would be a good 
 point for this came to make sure readers know that I DID NOT PLAY THIS GAME ON XBOX LIVE YET. It 
 seems to be what everyone is talking about with this game, so remember readers, I'm writing this 
 based in the single and one on one games only. Mind you, it's that good that I didn't deem it necessary 
 to play it that way before writing this. Not only is it purely enjoyable, but really gets fun when 
 the volleys get up there and the techno music kicks in. This game is nearly completely entertwined 
 with the 360 main menu, which I found to be a sweet touch when unlocking achievements for my Gamersore. 
 Now, the point I'm sure you've all been waiting for. They called it Rockstar presents Table Tennis. 
 Why? Rumor has it this game is based on the new RAGE engine (Rockstar Advanced Gaming Engine) which 
 will be used in the making of GTA 4. This game only intensifys my urge for GTA 4. If character 
 models in GTA look this good, I might as well quit my job. But why the 'Rockstar presents'? Were 
 they afraid it wouldn't sell without it? Or were they flaunting it. This just proves one thing. 
 Rockstar has been trying to make us huge states to commit acts of crime in, not realizing that 
 by spending this much detail in a small place they could OVERACHIEVE. Look for the next GTA to 
 be a bit smaller in scale only because they've learned to pay attention to even greater detail. 
 At least those are my hopes. Rockstar did not need to include their name in this title. They should've 
 just called it PONG360 or something. It's yet another title on 360 that I very nearly fall into 
 a trance playing, and is so easy anyone could play, and almost anyone could master decently. Awesome 
 experience. Now I have to play Topspin 2 to decide which ball-and-racket game is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar really caught me buy surprise when they announced they were doing a table tennis game. 
 Rockstar has a reputation for making very violent and controversal games like GTA, and that just 
 struck me as plain odd. After putting some serious playtime into the game, I must say Rockstar 
 didn't fail on this one. Table Tennis is simple and basic and is a great party game. The controls 
 are very aresponsive and accurate, putting your reflexes to the test as the ball moves faster each 
 time you hit it. Even though its pretty straightforward, you need some good skill to handle the 
 soft shots, power shots, and spin. The only place where the gameplay trips and falls and breaks 
 his nose is the player movement, which can be real slow at times. This game looks pretty damn good, 
 but there isn't really anything going on in the background. The charcter models couldn't be more 
 realistic, and sweating is very detailed. The clothes they wear move great with the cloth physics. 
 There aren't any pro table tennis players, but no one would recognize any of them anyway. There 
 isn't a career mode, not very many unlockables, and you can't improve your character's skills like 
 an RPG, or any other ways to make your character evolve. I really don't care about these faults, 
 cause its still all fun. I'll always have my copy of Table Tennis for whenever my friends come 
 over looking for a fast and fun experience. This is a good game, but could've been much better 
 with just a little more effort. Overall, this is a must-buy, and just don't bother renting it cause 
 you will be lonely and cold when you have to return it in a week or whatever. Rockstar should've 
 just called it pong 2 or something like that. (was there a pong 2?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkScorpion26
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  I think everyone had the same thoughts when they themselves found out that controversy king Rockstar 
 Games was making a game A: With no blood, B: sports oriented, and C: the sport was table tennis. 
 
  
  "What were they thinking?!"
  "Why waste money and time on table tennis?!!"
  "Is table tennis a sport???"
  
  I thought the same. Then, about 2 weeks before launch I thought 
 that at least they were trying something new and unpredictable. I got it the day it came out and 
 wasn't surprised at how fun and addicting it was. After hours of killing and bloodshed, it is great 
 to just sit down and play some table tennis and listen to some music. The single player is okay, 
 with the main goal to unlock players and Venus. The multi-player is where the game truly shines. 
 Intense matches, long rallies, running, smashing, win or lose you will have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kev_graw
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  The Gameplay Is Great One Sad Point Is There Is No Doubles Matches And On Xbox Live There Is A 
 Strange Person Complaining You Need To Serve The Ball The Spin Is Also Over Rated No Way Could 
 Anyone Produce Spin Like The Character "Kumi" Its Ruins The Reality Of The Game Which Is A Downer 
 And Moving Too Close The Table Slows Down The Player Making You Miss Hit And The Camera Angles 
 In Multiplayer On One 
  Console Is Ruined Because If Someone Hits A Focused Power Shot The Other Player Can't See His Postion 
 In Realive To The Table Making Me Miss Most Of Those Shots Which Is Very Fustrating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basher96
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is all you can expect from a Table Tennis game. Thrills, chills, adventure around every 
 corner. Well... Maybe not, but its fun to play with others. There are very good controls. Backspin, 
 topspin, and some other spins that Table Tennisers would know. The camera angle is pretty good 
 probably the best you can do for this style of game. Also the learning curve is about 12 seconds. 
 But to be good you might want to spend about 3 minutes and 42 seconds. Basically there is NO learning 
 curve. Hit buttons, move in front of ball, repeat, repeat, repeat, torment friend. The game has 
 great graphics with an almost perfect shadow of the ball. The only problem is the balls shadow 
 doesn't change size no matter how high or low the ball is. Other than that all the little useless, 
 no point at all tweaks are in there. Good game, rent it with friends. Bet all your money in a tournament 
 have fun. Send half the winnings to me.
  
  If you play this by yourself you are a complete, and utter loser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  While this game was not amazing, if you are a fan of the sport, or just a sports-junky, you will 
 find some interesting action for you here.
  
  Now, contrary to what some have stated, this game is not much of a button masher. Sure, you can 
 beat the computer smashing the A button on most of the difficulties, but if you play online, the 
 result will be different.
  
  The control scheme is relatively simple, but can take some time to get accustomed with. Many players 
 will opt to just hit the ball real hard and hope for it to fly by, while good players master the 
 art of the spin. Overall, a very well made engine.
  
  The achievements take some time to get, and that's basically what I aimed for. There are plenty 
 of unlockables to keep you busy, and some of the later tournaments are very challenging. Some may 
 enjoy the challenge, I found it most frustrating. The AI has a way of coming back real hard when 
 down by a lot of points.
  
  The graphics are excellent, the characters look very realistic and move in said way. The music 
 is quiet for the most parts, but appropriate when played. The sound effects are well made also.
 
  
  Overall, it is really the most I could expect out of this sort of title. A standard, no power-up, 
 completely realistic table tennis title. Definately fun for a while, and the online mode is where 
 the enjoyment is truly at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: proudcubeowner7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This is the kind of games we need for the Xbox 360 once in a while. Nice, fun, addicting games 
 to pick up and play. And this is a perfect example of that. This is an addicting game that you 
 should have in your Xbox 360 collection if your looking for a game like that. This is a superb 
 game.
  
  The gameplay is like any other regular tennis game, like Top Spin 2. The A button is a topspin, 
 the B button is a leftspin, the X button is a right spin, and the Y button is a backspin. You use 
 the top two triggers to do full focus shots, which is a very useful thing to do you will find as 
 you play the game. You press the right bumper to do a little focus, which you do if your focus meter 
 isn't full. To get your focus meter full, you do powerful shots that have a lot of spin by holding 
 any spin button. To hit a soft shot, press the left bumper. It's pretty easy controls that you will 
 find easy to just pick up and play.
  
  If I had to say any problem with this game, it would have to be the lack of game modes. For single-player, 
 it has a tournament mode, where there are four tournaments, an easy one, a medium one, a hard one, 
 and an expert one. It also has a regular exhibition match with the computer or a real-life player. 
 That's pretty much it, but Xbox live is where the real meat is. Playing online and talking trash 
 never gets old.
  
  The graphics are superb in this game. The player models are amazing, the player animations are 
 great. The table, the crowd, the ping pong paddles, everything looks great . So all in all, the 
 graphics are amazing
  
  The sound is simple. The ball sounds like a regular ball, the characters' voices are good, but 
 the best part about the sound are the crowd noices. Like if you're using a character from France 
 or something, they would chant the country, not altogether, but people would join in.
  
  All in all, this is a superb, fun, addicting game that you will be playing for a while. This is 
 the kind of game where, if you're kinda bored, and you want some entertainment, you will play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splayatino
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutley fantastic. You would think that ping pong would make a terrible game but 
 this game is fast, fluid, and very challenging. You should not play it online unless you can dominate 
 the A. I. on normal. This game may seem simple but it is extremely deep, there are a ridiculous 
 amount of spin comobos to meld together to dominate your foes. The graphics are spectacular. The 
 sound is just okay, balls being hit back and forth, but it does get cool when the crowd chants 
 your characters name or country. I'm not into the music really its all techno, but it does match 
 the gameplay, I like how the music dramatically changes with the gameplay. Online has hardly any 
 lag as long as you are not playing with people from spain, australia, or france. I can't stop playing 
 it its got me hooked. One down side is that there is no create a character mode, it would have 
 beed great to be able to create a perfect character. Also they should have released the game with 
 doubles enabled. The developers removed the feature at the last minute, that could have been fabulous. 
 But besides that the game is great I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtJamesPerez
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Do not let the good graphics fool you, this game is surely a dissapointment, its the same thing 
 everytime you play it, the ball goes back and fourth back and fourth, also everyone you play online 
 is like a professional !!! Nerds of the world buy this game now !!!!!!! Otherwise if you enjoy 
 repetitive table tennis action, stay away from this game !!!! Do not be a fool like me and spend 
 40 dollars on this crappy game overrated table tennis game, save it for a better upcoming game 
 like dead rising, or madden 2007, or maybe even do something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  I've always considered 'Rockstar' as one of the best game developers around, but I really feel 
 that Table Tennis is a real letdown. The annoying gameplay is one of the many problems with the 
 game.
  
  O. K the graphics are pretty good but could have pushed a lot further. The singleplayer campaign 
 is quite detailed with unlockable characters etc:
  but that can't hide the repetitive matches and tournaments that you'll have to keep on playing.
 
  
  And probably the most irritating thing about the game is the sensitivity when moving around the 
 table, if you've played the game you'll know what I mean.
  
  The game just isn't worth bothering with.
  'The first Table Tennis game on Xbox 360, any good?' 
 well the answer to that question is no! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidder_doa
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar table tennis is a truly great game... The visuals are great, some of the nicest character 
 models around, their shirts sway rythmicly and sweat develops as the match goes on. The game-play 
 has a strong core, with four main shots, with the strength, direction and speed being able to be 
 changed. There is a focus bar which increases as you hot more powerful shots, meaning you can unleash 
 a huge shot with a chance of shooting out your opponent. There is a wealth of characters to select, 
 each with 5 costumes to choose from. The single player tournaments get more difficult as you progress. 
 The first one or two tournaments are ok, but after that the going gets tough... It sometimes gets 
 frustrating when you meet one character that refuses to be beaten and beats you time after time... It 
 is a tactical game, each character having individual strengths and weaknesses, making practice 
 pay off.. The multiplayer is fun and intense, the camera is sometimes a little awkward for one 
 of the players if playing on one t. v though.... A great game, it is also cheaper than other release 
 at 30 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spindler01
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  It's an interesting idea and all, and the graphics aren't bad, but it's really not that varied. 
 You just go from match to match playing similar opponents hitting a ball to and fro on a small 
 scale, in a generic sports hall.
  And you can't even create your own player, so there's no career mode, which is absolutely ridiculous.
 
  It wouldn't be so bad if the learning curve wasn't so messed up. It starts off easy enough, then 
 suddenly ramps up in the third and fourth tournaments. And there's only 4 tournaments!!!!! What 
 the hell!?
  No way is this even worth the 30 it costs, RENT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sunrire
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar has a reputation of being a rebel developer and has made such great and high controversy 
 games such as Grand Theft Auto, The Warriors and Maz Payne
  
  But Rockstar has made a game family-friendly, non-controversal and overall fun game in Rockstar 
 Games Presents Table Tennis
  
  There is no story to the game like most sports titles but there is 4 tournaments which the 11 characters 
 can play in.
  
  Gameplay is a very simple againest other sport titles. The face buttons (A, X, Y, B) or the right 
 thumbstick controls unique spins the game surports, Forehand, Backhand, Left and Right.
  
  Graphics are very detailed. The players themselfs look detail with sweat, flapping clothes and shadows. Though 
 the areas which the players play in aren't that detailed as the characters which is disapointing
 
  
  Sound is almost non-existant. The music is re-used heavy even though the music is only sounded when 
 a high count volley is in play
  
  Value is also not in this game. Online is ok but single play is long and energy wasting. One game 
 againest the average CPU would take 7-15 mins
  
  Though Rockstar have made great games in the past this budget title is well worth a rent
  
 
  Sunrire 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesusChris
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Rockstar did an amazing job on this game. The online is great and the unlockables are pretty cool 
 too. If you are a fan of fast-paced sports games, then you will love this game. The achievements 
 aren't very hard to get either if you're willing to put in the time and effort. The only thing 
 that could have made this game better was a Create-A-Player mode. There also isnt a whole lot to 
 do in single-player after you complete the tournaments. This is still a great game even with these 
 minor drawbacks. So if you're looking for a solid game with great gameplay and some easy gamerscore, 
 then this is a must buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_0f_Enigma
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 1, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  With 40 dollars in my pocket I had only a few selected choices of getting a 360 game. Those being, 
 Table Tennis or Madden, and since I'm not a big football fan, I went with Rockstar's new family 
 member, and after playing a bit, I'm starting to regret my choice.
  
  Don't get me wrong on any aspect, Table Tennis will serve you some of the best gameplay thus far 
 on a 360, but that comes with some flaws.
  
  First off, the control is easy, perhaps a bit too easy. Anyone from the hardest of hardcore to 
 the softest of soft can pick this game up and instantly up themselves in the highest ranks online. 
 Yet, that also causes some feriousity in me as it is now hard to "pwn noobs" as most kids say nowadays. 
 Not only that but I got a bit tired of hitting A, B, X or Y, all the time. Of course, there are 
 more options such as a soft shot or a focus shot, but there is nothing to it really. Maybe it's 
 just me, but I would have liked to see a control scheme for the more hardcore.
  
  The second flaw in my opinion would be the Tourements. I thought I was going to see a full out 
 seasoned career mode, but I am stuck with difficulty settings that only add more games into the 
 mix, making the game somewhat short and repetitive, but I guess with a seasoned career mode, it'd 
 still be repetitive.
  
  Yet, repetivity makes a comeback. When upping the difficulty class your stuck facing off against 
 basically the same people only in a different body, which was kind of irritating. I saw do difference 
 in facing someone such as Jesper, who has a low accuracy and serve stat, to someone like Juergen, 
 who is somewhat well balanced and quick on his feet. It would have been a bit better if the game 
 actually applied the stats to the CPU as you played against them.
  
  With the flaws aside, the game does deliever some good aspects. The number one being the Multiplayer. 
 As I said, anyone could pick the game up and be an instant pro, that meaning in multiplayer your 
 gonna have a challenge.
  
  Not only that, but the graphics and physics of the game are fantastic. Watching sweat drop on someone 
 never looked so good, and just watching the loose clothing move is spectacular, just like watching 
 Aunt May playing DDR.
  
  Overall, the game is good, but I would wait until the price lowers abit, unless you really wanna 
 waste 40 dollars on repetitive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ekustix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 1, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Who would have thought that the masterminds responsible for games like Grand Theft Auto and Manhunt 
 could have produced such a tranquil game like this? Perhaps I should take back the word tranquil, 
 because this game is far from it. Point after point I find myself almost out of breath because 
 of the game's outrageous intensity. 
  
  Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis is hands down the best "sports" game experiance for the Xbox 
 360 available. At a $40.00 price tag, the game is a nice break from the usual $60.00 that I have 
 to drop on a 6-hour peice of garbage for the 360 (King Kong anyone?) The first thing that I would 
 like to say is that the character models are unbelievable. Just the way the shirt shifts and waves 
 around while you dive to make those important last shots truely shows off the gorgeous engine that 
 Rockstar has produced (Rumored to be running GTAIV?) . You can see the sweat dripping down their 
 faces, while their hair flows realistically across their beautifully rendered faces. Furthermore, 
 the enviornments that you play in are beautiful as well, with a realistic crowd jeering and howling 
 from the stands. 
  
  The actaul gameplay itself is also something to be praised. Rockstar perfectly captured the idea 
 of ping pongwith their simple control scheme. Each button puts a different spin on the ball depending 
 on the button's placement. Example: the A button will put topspin on the ball and give it a little 
 bit more speed on some of the shots. The trigger buttons allowin for "focus" shots (Shots that 
 increase the speed and spin on the ball) , which builds up over time. The better the shot you make, 
 the more focus you can collect. Placement of the ball on the table is also a breeze, with a simple 
 movement of the analog stick shifting the ball in that direction. A very nice touch is the vibration 
 feature which buzzes to let you know if your shot is going to veer off the table. Fundamentally 
 the gameplay is very simple, but it takes a long time to master it. 
  
  The online play is also incredibly satisfying, with a W/L system which ranks you accordingly. It 
 is very easy to find an opponent to play, and when you do end up on opposite sides of the table, 
 the skill is usually balanced, providing a fair and exciting match. You can select a number of 
 different rounds, and customize the match as you see fit. I have been able to jump online and play 
 that "one last match" before taking off to work in 10 minutes. It's just that accesable. 
  
  Another great feature the game has is the amount of unlockable content available. By completeing 
 matches under time constraints, beating specific opponents, or winning a tournament, you are able 
 to unlock anything from a new outfit for your favorite character, to a new venue to compete at. 
 Achievements are also a valuble way to progress after successfully completeing the single player 
 game, which unfortunatly, is not very deep at all.
  
  It appears to me that Rockstar spent most of their time developing the gameplay and character models, 
 while significantly overlooking the single player game. (Which is not necissarily a bad thing. 
 I would not like to play a long, bad game. I'm sure you would agree.) There are only three tournaments 
 for you to conquer: an easy, medium, and hard. Although they each are progressively longer and 
 require more matches to win, they simply left me wanting more after I was finished. 
  
  Overall, the game was an excellent experiance, I just wish that there was more for me to sink my 
 teeth into. At least Rockstar had the decency to only charge $40.00. There are many other publishers 
 I can think of who would willfully slap a $60.00 tag on and call it a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaddGIJoe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Rockstar Games, the creator of the daring Grand Theft Auto series, surprised many with their announcement 
 of a new game based on Table Tennis. While it is a risk, many seemed to be interested in a game 
 that isnt about shooting and stealing cars, and I was one of them.
  
  When I finally got my hands on this game, I found that it was very addicting. Rockstar brought 
 with them a good atmosphere to the game, especially in single player mode. When you get in those 
 tight moments with each player doing their best, you get a sort of tunnel-vision, and a very cool 
 feel of the game.
  
  The games learning curve is excellent, meaning you can easily pick up the game and start hitting 
 ping pongs like a pro. Which I think is great cause this game could be fun to play with friends 
 who may not own the game.
  
  Graphics lately, seem to be a main part in these next gen games, and Rockstar picked up on the 
 tread and brought a nice game to the table. The characters of the game are very well done and so 
 are the environments.
  
  One problem of the game, which I noticed very early into playing, is that you can only play this 
 game so long without getting bored. While very fun at first, you will find yourself hoping that 
 the end of the match is coming soon; sometime you just want to quit. That is one thing you dont 
 want to find in a game, even though Table Tenniss price is one of the lowest you can find for 
 the Xbox 360, at a forty-dollar price tag. While some, especially those who like to play for achievements, 
 might be playing this game for a while.
  
  Overall it is a fun game, and an excellent rental. Good job Rockstar for bringing more innovations 
 to the gaming front.
  
  A http://maddgijoe. xmgfree. com Review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thew13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  This is a solid sports title with some originality.
  I have played a just a little (10-20 offline mathces) , but already like the action in the game. 
 Basically a faster paced tennis game. Controls are good. THis is an easy game to learn, but not 
 so easy to master. After thinking my skills were decent I tried some online play and quickly learned 
 I needed much much more practice, which gives me some more time for offl line fun and enjoyment.
 
  I would recommend this game to any one who is a fan of any video tennis games and to anyone who 
 likes fast paced sports titles in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangawee
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  You'll find it good at the beginning trying to get familiar with the moves and spins but after 
 a while repeating the same thing again and again you might get disappointed (which I wish I hadn't 
 bought it) .
  Although its a good game to play for a short while so rent it first.
  About the game the game play is fairly good you will have to learn how to return the ball to the 
 opponent side of the table and which type of spin is better to apply there is so many characters 
 you could choose from each has his own skills some of them good at side spins, strong top spin 
 or have fast feet.
  The graphics is fabulous this is the good part of this game the characters are well designed with 
 every little details, there t-shirts move slightly when they make the slightest move they also 
 sweat too (so amazing) .
  The sound is good you get to hear the crowed cheers for you or react to you strong shots.
  After 
 all its a good game but not a buy title rent it so you dont regret later on. 
  
  Peace
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shibbay41
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on a whim b/c it was only $40 and I was suprisingly happy with the purchase 
 after playing it for about an hour. I am having so much fun working through this game. The game 
 play is wicked fast, and the characters look amazing. This might be the best looking game I own 
 on the 360. I would def. reccommend this game to anyone who likes tennis or ping pong, or any sports 
 game for that matter. It took me a while to get a hang of the controls but once I had it down I 
 fell in love with it. This is also a good game to play with friends. The multiplayer mode is a 
 lot of fun. It is a good way to kill some time w/ a buddy. I haven't had a chance to get online 
 with it yet, but I imagine that being a ton of fun as well. With only a little time spent on the 
 game I have already unlocked some bonus characters and locations and I have a few achievements 
 also. For anyone on a tight budget or someone looking for a great game to play that isn't too time 
 consuming, Table Tennis is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuRePwNaGe666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  it was awsome at first but after u start to play it for a while your like WTF am i doing am i really 
 sitting hear playing table tennis on a video game wow i must be a LOSER. but the online is fun 
 and very easy the achivements were dissapointingly easy to get i think i got almost all of the 
 in the first week i got the game. i would rather of rented the game then accutally have to keep 
 it and when my friends come over they always laugh at it cuz its super lame ping pong. wow i dont 
 know any more to write that will equal 100 words. i feel like im doing a school report rather thatn 
 a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  This game is cool for the first 2 hours. You get to put different spins on your hits of the ping 
 pong ball and you get to smash it when you get a power-up. The graphics are just phenomenal, and 
 it is extremelyrealistic. The downside is, just like alot of sport or sport related games, it gets 
 boring after a while because it is the same type of gameplay over and over and over again. It would 
 have been way cooler if they had fights in this game. Lets say someone got ht in the eye with a 
 ping pong ball, they would go up and smack the other person over the head with their racket... now 
 that would be wicked. The sound on this game isn't very good either. Besides the crowd cheering, 
 the sound stunk. Then again, I was this guy named Liu Ping and at one point, the crowd would chant 
 my name, "Liu Ping, Liu Ping, Liu Ping", that was pretty cool and very realistic. If you're looking 
 for a change of gaming then why not try this game out (rent it) but it is nit worth tye money to 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tekkor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Addictive and unexpected are the best ways to describe Table Tennis from Rockstar.
  
  I have had the game for a few weeeks and while I dont play it as much as I should it is a great 
 game. As most other reviewers have pointed out the graphics are great. The controls are responisve 
 and addictive. The game has that "just one more" quality about it.
  
  When you get into the middle of a like 30 shot volley and the music tempo begins to pick up and 
 you start getting into a rythm the game really starts to shine.
  
  If I had to have one major complaint it would be I wish it had like a deeper career mode of some 
 sort. Showing more things like you picking places to play, perhaps having to choose on endorsments 
 or something. maybe take a bit of a cue from like some of the pool games or something out there.
 
  
  Regardless.... 360 needs more top quality games. This is one. Buy it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: phsknights08
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun for multiplayer but it is borin other than that. the bad part is that it is very 
 time consuming n that there is no career mode or nethin like that, but there is tournament mode 
 but the first couple ppl r really easy to beat until u get to like the last person. personally 
 i would rent it first b4 i bought it. that is about it about this game... im just takin up room 
 now
  
  this copy is just takin up room!!!
  this game is fun for multiplayer but it is borin other than that. the bad part is that it is very 
 time consuming n that there is no career mode or nethin like that, but there is tournament mode 
 but the first couple ppl r really easy to beat until u get to like the last person. personally 
 i would rent it first b4 i bought it. that is about it about this game... im just takin up room 
 now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlcain
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Table Tennis is a game that doesn't have a whole lot of complexity to it outside the gameplay. 
 This is a good thing in some ways, but also hinders the overall experience in others.
  
  In term of gameplay modes, there is exhibition and tournament. That is all you really need to know 
 for both single and multiplayer. Seriously, as far as ways to play the game, this is as shallow 
 as it gets. 
  
  Why? Because this is a multiplayer game, simple as that. If you don't have friends to play it with, 
 or xbox live, then don't buy it. The single player is only there to provide obstactles to achievements 
 and unlockables, and mainly give you the tools to play online.
  
  No matter which way you look at it, the entire game is two guys in a room hitting a little ball 
 back and forth. The rooms don't even contain that variety.
  
  Where they did go deep was in the gameplay, as it is relatively easy to learn but hard to master. 
 Is it fun? Yeah, I'd say it is. But the question will be are you going to continue to play it after 
 the novelty wears off. I think overall most people will, just some more than others. There are 
 people that have hundreds of games online racked up, while I am more the type of person that plays 
 it every now and again. I may even trade it in at some point, but I am still happy I bought it, 
 as it is one of the best online experiences out there.
  
  It's simple, it's fun, and it's at least a rental for anyone with xbox live and an interest in 
 tennis games.
  
  Oh yeah, the graphics are very well done, as is the sound. The sound of that ball smacking against 
 the paddle is addicting in a weird sort of way. The graphics feature heavily detailed models, progressive 
 sweat, and probably the best cloth physics in a game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Rockstar may be more known for their adult orientated GTA franchise but it would seem they are 
 at least trying to appeal to a wider audience. 
  And what could be further from the bloddy and destructive GTA than a harmless game of Table Tennis?
 
  
  While video games have been around for decades now, there was one game credtited for it's growth. 
 PONG. A simple black and white game of "tennis". With a bar at either end of the screen two players 
 would knock a "ball" at each other, trying to make them miss.
  
  Now R* are trying to recreate the simple addictiveness of PONG with "Roackstar Presents table Tennis". 
 A game that, in all intense and purposes, is PONG with a face life.
  
  You choose between a host of characters. Choose a tournament and do battle. Each face button on 
 the controller (A, B, X, Y) represents a certain type of spin (Top, Right, Left, Back, respectively) . 
 The left buffer is used for drop shots and the right is used for "Focus Mode".
  
  Said Focus Mode is used to batter your opponents in one or two shots. A meter is built up by either, 
 hitting shots that were very hard to return or, hitting shots that just land in and are hard for 
 your opponent to return. Once filled you can activate it and perfrom high power shots as well as 
 reaching shots you otherwise wouldn't have been able to.
  
  part from the three tournamants there is the online mode. This is where the game comes alive. You 
 battle random people from across the globe in an attempt to become the best. While the computer 
 AI offers a massive challenge the players online really test your skill. And the online play is 
 worth the price of admission alone.
  
  That said, the game does have some shortcomings. As a direct result of the game being budget priced 
 it is lacking in features. Apart from the achievements and unlockable content there is little left 
 to do after the tournaments if you don't have LIVE.
  
  There is no career mode, no create a player etc. You just play table tennins with a character you 
 choose.
  
  so, if you have XBOX LIVE then this is well worth a look, especially because it is budget priced. 
 However, if you usually play alone then its lack of depth will become all too aparant all too quickly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJP7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis (Rockstar San Diego) limits your player character to a forehand, 
 a backhand, and about ten square feet of movement. No career mode, no Create-a-Ponger, and no soundtrack 
 featuring Young Jeezy, or the rest of the souths rap contingent for that matter. 
  
  Sounds, um, limitingright? 
  
  Not if you ask Rockstar. Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis 
 was devised because it seemed like Ping Pong would make a fun video game that their staff would 
 want to play. FUN. This is the driving force behind entertainment isnt it? Even if its often 
 overlooked in this particular industry. 
  
  Rockstar feels that if you build it (correctly) , and it is fun, that they will come. Hmmm, I know 
 most of you can have fun base jumping O. G.-style, or putting women of the night in their place 
 with properly placed slaps, but knocking a hollow ball around a table with a pipply paddle? Sounds 
 a bit less like fantasy, but no less fun if properly executed. Lets see if Rockstar did their 
 table-top tennis homework 
  
  
  
  Gameplay 
  
  Usually I end my reviews talking about a titles price, especially if price is pertinent to gamers 
 seeking an opinion on the SKU in question. For Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis, Ill begin 
 with the price: $39.99, which places this game firmly in the range of budget-minded titles for 
 the Xbox 360 crowd. 
  
  So what exactly is a budget title? Usually, were talking about a title that is limited on content, 
 which forces publishers to offer it at a much lower price than a fully featured title. For example, 
 most of you wouldnt spend sixty bucks on Geometry Wars - good or bad. But a few ducats for a great 
 game equals a good value (as in GWs case) , which is what most of us seek when buying games, premium-priced 
 or not. 
  
  
  
  With that said, its obvious that Rockstar didnt load Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis up 
 with feature after feature, nor bundle it with a Biba swimsuit calendar. But they do feel that 
 theyve given gamers a lot for their forty bills, which is a hard point to argue after getting 
 intimate with Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis for a few. 
  
  Where youll see the most value for your forty is in Rockstar Games Presents Table Tenniss game 
 engine, which is as solid as it gets regardless of title genre. Rockstar San Diego designed Rockstar 
 Games Presents Table Tenniss engine to be pick-up-and-play in nature, but with enough ramped complexity 
 so as to keep the ambassadors of the game miffed, even after tens of hours of gameplay. This is 
 no easy task, and one that is rarely seen in titles where fast-twitch gaming skills are the main 
 focus. 
  
  To incorporate such a beautiful game engine into Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis meant that 
 some other areas of the typical sports game had to be relinquished. Call it purity, or call it 
 trying to hit a price point; either way, Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis has offline and online 
 exhibition matches and tournaments, and thats about it. 
  
  Theres a bit of functionality in the online area, however, such as voice-over chat, a timed tournament 
 structure for up to eight participants, and both ranked and unranked matches. There are leaderboards 
 (with a TrueSkill tab as well) , a spectator mode which is pretty slick (known as the Table Tennis 
 Network - like Gotham TV) , and modest game host options (points per game, games per match, etc.) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zep311
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  This isn't going to be a really long review, but this is what I have to say. 
  
  Gameplay : The developers did a good job of making this game fun to play (especially against friends) . 
 The problem is, the fun wears off quick (for me at least) . All there was was tournament, exhibition, 
 and online mode. You can't really expect the game to have much though. I don't know what they could 
 make because you can't have a franchise mode (maybe a career mode would work) . But I get tired 
 of playing tournaments to unlock **** all the time.
  
  Graphics: Good graphics... look at the pictures and videos. They tell most of the story about the 
 graphics.
  
  Sound: I don't pay much attention to that, but I guess it was good for my standards
  
  Value: 
 Its cheap... can't go wrong with cheap. You get what you pay for with the amount of gameplay options 
 in the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blind-folded
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:19 am PT
Review:  At first, when it was announced, everyone thought that a Table Tennis game was a bad idea, but 
 soon those negative thoughts turned into hype and the hype was well deserved. This game is great.
 
  
  The Singleplayer: Is good, but nothing outstanding. You can compete in tournaments and become the 
 world champion, with different difficultys. Theres plenty of unlockables and different characters 
 to choose from. Each character has a unique personality and has different strengths and weaknesses. 
 But overall, its a great addition to compete in the campaign tournaments but playing the game againt 
 AI doesn't feel as great as online.
  
  The Multiplayer: Is a godsend. It just works so well. You can invite some friends around to your 
 house and hit some games up or you can hook it up to Xbox Live and engage in some fierce 1v1 battles 
 or huge tournaments. It just feels somewhat different and more compelling when you're up againt 
 someone at the other side of the world, its competetive and addictive, you'll find yourself playing 
 it for hours without getting bored. Sure, its missing afew features that could of made the game 
 much better, like perhaps a co-op 2v2 feature, but still, without it, its amazing and certainly 
 a unique game.
  
  The Controls work well, they're fairly easy to remember, but theres so many different things you 
 can do thats its hard to master them, seriously, they're so complex. The Graphics are unmatched, 
 they are stunning. And by stunning I mean, if your aunty walks in and watches the TV, she'll think 
 that its actual real Table Tennis and not a game. The character models faces look great, the cleanest 
 and most realistic on any game out now, the eyes spark with life, following the ball, everything 
 else is polished to a high standard, sweat drops off your characters head and floods through their 
 shirt, movement of the character is fantastic and even the cloth physics are the best i've seen 
 and move realistically too. The Sound is crisp and works well, the crowd is lively and the commentery 
 has lots of different sayings so it doesn't get repetitive. It has a great techo-beat soundtrack 
 that comes on when you're into a long rally which helps keep the game not sound too lonely and 
 keeps it fresh. Also worth noting are the achievements. They are really great and thought out, 
 it feels rewarding when you unlock one.
  
  Overall, this is a great game and deserves a high score because of the $40 / 30 price and the 
 endless fun it can give you, albiet, the single player could be better, but this game is all about 
 playing with friends anyway. This game is easily worth your money. You're not going to play it 
 to death, but when you're bored you can slap the game in and hit some games up. Its one of those 
 games that you can 'pick up and play'.
  
  I see this game as the brother of Fight Night Round 3, both are full of action, cheap price and 
 have true next-gen graphics, go buy this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prichard745
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  i dont see this game going very far this is one of the games you play if you sit at home and get 
 you ass kicked if you leave for being such a huge nerd not a great buy not a really good game doesnt 
 push the xbox 360 at all im this game is fun if you play it in real life but not for video games 
 i think rockstar games just need a little money for a big game coming up i hope rockstar north 
 creates the best game of the mellenium but it wont be this game or no where near this is going 
 to be one timmer game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  What can i say its Ping pong haha
  Rockstar is such a funny company, people r bashing them about there games being to violent and 
 how they want to fine and close them down so they make this....
  this has to be the most G rated game ever haha...
  it is basically ping pong and could have been 
 a XBLA arcade game, if they hadnt added the awesome lookin characters.
  the gameplay is fun but i find it to be pretty hard on the default settings, but im not that good 
 at sports games other than soccer ones. The gameplay is like topspin but there is no career mode 
 and no create a player which is disappointing but this is a budget title. That being said this 
 game single player sucks.. and is meant to be a multiplayer or online game where it really shines. 
 There are about 12 players in the game who all look amazing but are not real people.
  
  the graphics are amazing and are from a new rockstar engine called rage that is supose to power 
 the next GTA, which would be amazing because those games always looked so ugly.
  
  hope that the next one that they make a career and create a player mode to make the single player 
 better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666_NOTB
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Not the best to date on Xbox 360. This game certainly lacks in some areas. Overall though 
 it can be quite fun at times. The single player, in my opinion, is WAY too short. It really lacks 
 in depth, they could've done a lot more in this area.
  
  Graphics: Very good character models. I would say that they are close to being the best on Xbox 
 360. The environments lack a little, showing mostly flat textures.
  
  Sound: Pretty good. Soundtrack is terrible, though.
  
  Value: For only 39.99, this may be worth 
 for some people out there. My final verdict is rent this game first. It's fun for about the first 
 week. After that I got pretty bored with it. I'm glad I didn't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuttabutta
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  ... because this game is actually FUN to play... almost too fun for a game based around such a simple 
 concept. When I first heard Rockstar was making a ping pong game, I thought it was a joke. No joke, 
 people, they mean business. 
  The gameplay is simple at first, but there's actually a lot of depth to it... esentially, you have 
 to exploit your opponent's weaknesses if you have a chance at beating them. Will you use a soft 
 backspin shot or a hard topspin smash to beat your opponent? The choice is yours. While sometimes 
 the game can be frustrating, something makes you play until you overcome your obstacle. The playability 
 and the difficulty of this game ranges from mainstream to hardcore. Just don't pick up this game 
 for gamerscore points... you'll have to play QUITE a bit to get the majority of them...
  The graphics are top notch. The sweat, the moving cloth, the amazing physics of the ball, and the 
 amazing amount of detail on the character models really make this game's visuals look tremendous.
 
  The sound really is not a highlight of this game... there's just some background techno music at 
 the menu screens and when you're in a big rally... other than that, the great sound of a plastic 
 ball hitting the table and a few grunts from the characters are all you'll really hear. Pretty 
 great audio-wise for such a simple game.
  You'll be playing this game for a WHILE. I know once I get cash I'm going to buy this game... this 
 game, as a rental WILL NOT satisfy you. Though many reviewers have made it clear that there's a 
 severe lack of options, you'll be too transfixed trying to improve your skills through online matches 
 and the difficult tournaments in the game. And with the cheap price, there's enough here to definitely 
 warrant a purchase.
  With great presentation, addictive gameplay, and solid value, Table Tennis is one of the few Xbox 
 360 games out right now that you won't regret purchasing after you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingkrazy
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Apart from the surprise of Rockstar Games making a table tennis game, this game rocks!
  
  The game's single player is basically, crap!
  The game doesn't really have a single player story 
 to it. It includes 4 tournaments which are on 4 levels of difficulty, thats basically it.
  
  The best thing about this game is the xbox live feature, it includes ranked play, free play, 
 tournament (on both) and exibition (on both) .
  This game doesn't have any bad lag issues, occasionally the opposing players character may lag 
 a tiny bit but this is nothing to spoil the gameplay with.
  
  The game feature many moves and the training mode in the extra's bit will help you off at the start 
 but as you play more and more of the game you will start learning new tricks to use against your 
 opponent.
  
  You can hit the ping pong ball if 4 different way
  Frontspin - Y
  Backspin - A
  Leftspin - X
  Rightspin - B
  
  These different hits can be used in many different 
 ways, such as, if you return the ball with the same spin they hit it to you with then it will be 
 harder for them to hit it.
  Also you have 2 other "special" bits in the gameplay
  The first bit is a basic table tennis move and involves you tapping the ball over the net, just 
 incase you need to slow the game down a bit
  
  The other fantastic move is the power button, this button (RB) corresponds to a bar just above 
 your players score. You can charge this bar up by holding the spin button when hitting the ball.
 
  When you use the power button on single player, the screen will go into slow motion at stick on 
 a funky camera angle on you hitting the ball. This spin also speeds up the ball to if your bar 
 if full you should be able to get back a few points fast.
  
  The achievements on this game are great and they make you try and try again to unlock them.
  
 Most of the achievements correspond to some "ingame" unlockables such as new charaters, outfits 
 and stadiums. This also motivates you to play the game more as you can show off to your friends 
 the new funky unlockable you have got!
  
  This game has a few hidden gamer pictures in it. You will unlock 2 rockstar table tennis pictures 
 by completing the training mode, while getting full marks on each module.
  These aren't that hard to get but you feel good when you get them.
  
  Overall this game is 
 VERY addicting and i would recommend it to any gaming fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigroy666
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  I hate tennis...... now that Ive said that, this game rules them all. Simple controls, yet the game 
 play is challenging and sometimes very complex... in a good way! This is a very refreshing change 
 of pace in the video gaming world. The AI is awsome the graphics are absolutley top notch , this 
 game is just plain fun! R* did an excellent job at paying attention to detail and bringing forth 
 a game that is just absolutley addictive, Kudos to you R*. 
  
  I highly recomend anyone with a 360 GET THIS GAME! You may not like tennis, or you may think this 
 game just doesnt have enough flash, but it does and considering most 360 games are 60.00 bucks 
 this bad boy is budget priced at 40.00! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zmaleh
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis, the debut next generation title from critically acclaimed 
 developers Rockstar San Diego, is like nothing you have ever seen before.
  
  Experience the unmatched intensity of the real-life sport with an authentic physics engine and 
 intuitive gameplay that mimics the exhilarating experience found in true international competition.
 
  
  Choose between 11 uniquely detailed characters, each with their own distinct style of play, and 
 guide them to ultimate victory by mastering all the shots and techniques, including power shots, 
 heavy spin and precision accuracy.
  
  Compete in an assortment of gameplay modes across 19 venues, including stadium style arenas and 
 special locations, each with an unmatched level of detail and featuring authentic equipment and 
 apparel from the biggest names in competitive table tennis, including Killerspin, adidas, Joola, 
 Butterfly and more.
  
  The Graphics are Impressive, and the sound of hitting the ball with your racket, is surprisingly 
 enjoyable.
  
  If you are going to get this game, plauy with Jesper He is my favorite .)
  
  The only thing is that You cannot play this game for about an hour before being bored. This 
 game is quite repetitive and I usually take a break from boredom and then play it and repeat the 
 proccess 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  Rockstar games Presents Table Tennis was, at first, a real stupid idea for a game, who would pay 
 50 quid for a game about a game? Then, Rockstar released Table Tennis' RRP, just 30 pounds (20 
 pounds less than a usual Xbox 360 game pricetage) . Suddenly tens of people flocked to the nearest 
 Toys R Us to buy Rockstar games Presents Table Tennis, and when they saw the fantastic visuals, 
 experienced the adrenaline pumping gameplay and paddle-on-ping-pong-ball action sounds, hundreds 
 upon thousands of people flocked to Toys R Us, then eventually GAME and HMV (and to a lesser extent, 
 Gamestation) , and then Rockstar games Presents Table Tennis got the recognition it sort of deserved! 
 Whoever says Rockstar games Presents Table Tennis is pointless, boring and down right "off", should 
 be bent over a table tennis table and be paddled themselves, then maybe, just maybe, they'll know 
 what Rockstar games Presents Table Tennis is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gazzam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  superb gameplay and physics, subtle yet very effective use of sound (and very funny at times) , 
 and the graphics look excellent and run very smoothly. the controls are what can ruin a game like 
 this but they are superb with nice use of the rumble feature to warn you about too much spin on 
 the ball ,Online play works well for the most part with some occasional minor lag but otherwise 
 very good indeed, it may be too hard for some people your reactions need to be very fast and it 
 is samey but hey it does what it set out to do .so these are minor niggles... wow and its cheap 
 24.99 in tesco everyone should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I just rented and I love it! People are still very suspicious about Rockstar's "inocent" 
 turn. And so am I, but now I'm less now. I think. Well if Table Tennis sounds lame to you, then 
 your a turd. The game's simplicity is what makes this game a hit. Serve, hit, don't get it out 
 or let the other person score. Do your best to play right, or you will be humiliated because you 
 just got schooled... bad... in Table Tennis. Do you really want that kind of rejection? Thought 
 so. When you first start the game, you get 4 characters. My favorite is Liu Ping, a bald version 
 of William Hung. Hung it up, fool with an 9.2... Fool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassplayer27800
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 16, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I did not expect this game to be this good, I was pleasently suprised. This is a great game, 
 you need to buy it.
  
  gameplay-It's simple, A, B, Y, and X are your buttons you press for hitting the ball, along with 
 pressing the right analog stick in a direction controlls the ball, the right stick also controlls 
 your character. The gameplay is very addicting, once I started playing I did not want to stop. 
 The online part of it is great also, I love the tournaments. The only part that I would have loved 
 seeing is a create a character mode.
  
  Graphics-Holy mother of god are the graphic great. I couldn't belive my eyes, I played it on my 
 HDTV and I was blown away, it has got to be the best looking 360 game to date, it is insanley good 
 looking. 
  
  sound-The sound is great also, all the cheers the crowd makes to the music, and the noise the ball 
 makes when it hits your paddle or the table.
  
  Disapointments-again, no character creator, that is one crucial thing in my opinion that they left 
 out, I was very disapointed to learn you couldn't create a character. other than that I have no 
 complaints
  
  Overall-This is a great game, for a great price, a deffinate must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to getting the game from gamefly, and once i started playing it, it was really 
 fun. Then I started playing harder matches and it just got irritating. I cant find a way to change 
 difficulty levels, the achievements arnt worth anything, and the controls get very unresponsive 
 at times. While in a regular single player match, i would tell my guy to go to the right and then 
 he would eaither go to the left or stand there. If your opponent does a focus shot, you pretty 
 much get stuck right where you are, and if you spike a ball and they return it good, you wont be 
 able to hit it because your guy just freezes there like its already done. It was fun at first now 
 im just getting bored way too fast, theres not enough in this game to keep its replay value or 
 anything up. I played online, and its not as great as everyone says. Its pretty much like any other 
 tennis game, which doesnt hold my attention for too long, and for some of you who just like getting 
 achievements, this game wouldnt be right for you eaither. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vvhitepony86
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Overall table tennis seems like a great game right? who would not love playing ping-pong on their 
 over-sized HDTV. Really when it comes down to it the game isn't all its cracked up to be.
  
  Alright so graphics, at first glance the game looks great but after a half hour or so of playing 
 it, there's not much going on and you should realize that way more could have been put into the 
 graphics department considering they only thing that is moving is you and the ball.
  
  Game play is next, lets go alright the controls are cool and take a little bit to get used too. 
 The in-game training works okay at best, the controls are still pretty sluggish and unreliable. 
 The game ends up being very repeatable, you're basically doing the same thing every 5 seconds. 
 There is no customization of the characters, there isn't even a character creator. I was very disappointed 
 when i found that out, i would have a completely different outlook if there was. There is only 
 a set tournament and exhibition mode, very repetitive. The difficultly levels are appropriate and 
 probably the best thing to come out of this game.
  
  The in-game sounds are realistic but get kind of annoying. There's a focus mode that goes into 
 effect after 10 or so rallies and this music starts playing to get you more "into" the game but 
 its the same damn song every-time and gets very annoying.
  
  The game i give an overall rating of 6.5. Yea it's that bad. If you want to have fun with you're 
 friends for about an hour rent it. I would never advise or recommend buying it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _raymaster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  Table tennis is really a fun game thats a breath of fresh air, what I mean is this is really showing 
 u what the nxt gen games can be like, I'll start off with the graphics there AMAZING! From the 
 sweat effects to the player which r amazing i; ll add.. The single-player is pretty straight forward 
 it just concists of 3 circuits 1. Easy circuit
  2. Medium circuit
  3. Hard circuit
  it took me about 45 min.-1 hour
  
  The multiplayer is great to its really fun competeing with 
 people u dont know and whupping them. SO all in all this game is a must own for Table Tennis fans! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja-Vox
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  One thing stuck out as i played this game, and i'm sure other gamers will have thought the same. 
 Imagine if the title on the front of the box said "Table Tennis". Imagine if Rockstar hadn't hyped 
 this game up to oblivion with IGN's "Countdown to the announcement of Rockstar's new game!" Imagine 
 if this game was made by, say, EA or Konami? 
  
  Well, i don't think it'd be scoring an 8.5, to say the least. Hype can be a dangerous thing, and 
 in this case i think it's worked to Rockstar's disadvantage.
  
  One immediate positive is the game's price tag. At a good twenty bucks cheaper than most "next 
 gen" titles out there, you're looking at a bargain before you even load up the game. 
  
  Or are you? Maybe that price tag is still a little too high for what's on offer. There's no create-a-player 
 feature. No doubles matches, no advanced features of any kind. How long can a simple one on one 
 game of ping pong go on? Not very, is the answer. Rockstar seem to have stretched out the experience 
 by making the latter matches brutally difficult; but this comes across as frustrating rather than 
 challenging, and only helps to increase the feeling that this just isn't meant to be a full game. 
 Heck, i see no reason why it couldn't have been released on the XBL Arcade as a downloadable title. 
 It would certainly make more sense.
  
  But enough negetives. The actual gameplay itself is there, even if it doesn't last. Games are fast, 
 relentless and require a zen-like concentration to come up tops. The only downside to this is the 
 sheer length of some games. On the later difficulty settings, you can find youself playing for 
 twenty minutes at a time to score a single point. And when it's 11 points, best of three games 
 - you're in for a long haul. 
  
  Graphically it's outstanding. The player models are simply amazing, gradually beginning to sweat 
 as the game goes on. Clothing moves realistically as your player swings for the ball, rather than 
 that carved out of plasticene look you get with other games. 
  
  Overall however, there just isn't a full game in "Table Tennis". It'll last you two weeks tops, 
 if you're patient enough to not burn through the tournament mode in a few hours. Towards the end, 
 things get stupidly hard rather than refreshing or progressive, simply screaming to you "ok, we've 
 had enough. Time to trade this one in."
  
  Rent it by all means; but it simply isn't deep enough or fulfilling enough to warrant a purchase. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is solid throughout, you have 4 shots, a backspin, a left spin, right spin, and top 
 spin shot. You can direct the shots using the left thumbstick and move around using the left thumbstick. 
 Now one problem with the gameplay is that it gets very repetitive, after you play for about a weekend 
 it feels like you've been playing the same game over, and over, and over, but having different 
 atributes for the characters helps a bit, so no charter plays the same
  
  Graphics:
  Smooth and very detailed players that have great animations, the enviroments are nice to look at 
 and the table looks awesome, but the problem is with the enviroment, there isn't really any life 
 to them, alot of the enviroment look pretty simular to other ones
  
  Sound:
  The game sounds very good as well. Great ping pong ball sounds when it hits the table and the paddle, 
 nice crowd noises, the announcing is ok, all they really say is what the score of the game is or 
 whos serve it is
  
  Value:
  Table Tennis doesn't have much too it, all you really have is a exibition mode ( pretty self explanitory 
 ) and a tournament mode, theres four different tournament which get harder as you go along, it 
 can get brutally tough as you get into late in the 3rd tournament. It also has a $50 price tag 
 which helps
  
  Tilt:
  Table Tennis is a fun game for a while, it's got good online play with not much lag and new, fresh 
 gameplay, but it can get boring after about a weekend
  
  Overall:
  Table Tennis has alot going for it, crisp graphics, good online play and good characters, but the 
 lack of a carreer mode or a creat-a-player mode can hold this game back from being all that it 
 could be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassoonrules27
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  Rockstar, the creator of the most controversial games ever, GTA, is back for its first "next-gen" 
 title, Table Tennis. Yes, I said Table Tennis. No gangsters, drugs, or hot coffee in this game. 
 Just pure table tennis. And, surprisingly, it's amazing.
  Table Tennis allows you to pick from 11 characters (most of which are unlocked by various tasks, 
 but more on that later) from 11 different countries, like Germany, China, and the good ole USA. 
 The characters are all different and have different stats, but unfortunately, the men are all better 
 than the women. And the US is represented by a woman. And she's the worst character in the game. 
 Thanks Rockstar.
  Characters are ranked by their ability to spin the ball, serve, their power, and accuracy. Naturally, 
 a strong character has a lower spin ability and usually a low accuracy, where a weak character 
 has to compensate with a lot of spin and accuracy. Serving is fairly random... some strong characters 
 have tremendous serving, but some don't.
  There are a wide variety of levels (over 20... I don't know the exact number) , but they are all 
 essentially the same. There isn't any bonus for playing in one particular stage. If you play in 
 a professional arena, however, there are spectators that cheer, but it doesn't make a big difference. 
 The other unlockable item in the game is outfits (each character has 5) ... woohoo.
  The gameplay is simple, yet tough. A player can perform a topspin, leftspin, backspin, and rightspin 
 shot by pushing A, B, X, and Y. A soft shot can be done by holding LB, and focus shots can be done 
 with RB or LT / RT. Focus is a huge aspect of the game. Focus shots are done when a player earns 
 enough focus (duh) . Focus is earned by doing stronger shots (holding down the button before you 
 hit the ball) . Focus shots increase your stats, so your shots are harder and spin like crazy.
 
  Single player is disappointing in TT, because there are only 4 tournaments and no career mode 
 / create-a-player. These tournaments range from Easy to Expert (and let me tell ya, you have to 
 be one helluva expert to beat it) . The difficulty at easy is easy, but at hard it is near impossible 
 to win the tournament, which is a nice improvement over games where easy is dumb and hard is normal. 
 There are also exhibition matches, which is a one-on-one match with customizable options.
  The multiplayer is where it is at with TT, though. Online is fun and addictive, to say the least. 
 The TT Network is a cool addition and allows players to watch any game that is currently happening. 
 Online games include tournaments with 4 or 8 players and exhibition matches, both of which can 
 be ranked or unranked matches. Local multiplayer is also fun, mostly because the game is so easy 
 to learn... you can literally pick up the controller and win the Rookie (easy) Tournament. However, 
 becoming good takes a little practice.
  TT is a great game that shouldn't be missed by any Xbox 360 owner. And the $40 price tag is hard 
 to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Now when i heard that there was going to be a table tennis game, i said to myself, this is the 
 dumbest thing ever." When i saw that it was going to be a cheap title i knew that it would be a 
 game that would suck. but i got it anyway, and it 'sfun!!!!!!!!!!!!! Rock Star did the dim thing. 
 The only thing is that the game is a little shallow on the single player department. But other 
 than that you will love this game, no lie. If you want to have fun on the 360 for a reasonable 
 price then this is the one. For a minute i thought hey where is Forest Gump. The control is easy 
 to learn and that intuitive enough to let you know that it is next gen. The graphics in this game 
 is great and you can see the wrinkles in the clothes. Now i am going to buy a shrimp boat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docmongo21
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  Im gonna make this review short and sweet. 
  
  The graphics are very good. The textures are done well, the clothe moves nicely and the character 
 models look great. The animations are well done, slow at times though.
  
  The Gameplay is extremely simple to learn and becomes addicting fast. Getting volleys up into the 
 hundreads is exciting and tense. I do wish the were more modes to the single player aspect.. but 
 for $39 this game isnt a bad deal.
  
  Multi-player is where this game lives, online and off. I did notice lag during one of my online 
 matches and it was kinda annoying but didnt ruin the game. Offline the game runs perfect and is 
 a fun experince to play with your friends.
  
  I recommend this game for its simple addicting fun. More modes would of been better, and less lag 
 online is always a plus. But overall this is a very good game, that anyone could enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohanssj7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  I'm playing table tennis for the past 5 yrs & have played it at state level where i represented 
 my school. i cant believe its on XBOX 360. I'm likely to buy it when it releases ( i dont know whether 
 its already in the market or not) but sure im going 2 get it as soon as i get more funds. i've 
 seen the videos & they have blown up my head. I just cant wait to play it. The variety of shorts 
 we can play in it is just amazing. Its detailed gameplay & information & assistance to play different 
 shots is just amazing. I'm not sure whether i'll be able to play such good shots as i saw in the 
 video but still it is a must have for me. The graphics is also to the mark. I think one should 
 buy this game. 
  
  PLAY MORE.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell26
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  Table tennis is not that much of a popular sport so rockstar games would have had to take a risk, 
 but it paid off. The detail is uncanny. You can actually see the sweat dripping off the players, 
 detail of the skin and the clothes sre pretty good aswell. Brilliant graphics from a game that 
 brought us GTA!! You would never have thought that.
  
  A career mode would have been much apreciated though, most games have them now, but it redeams 
 itself with tournament mode and unlockable items. This is really a great game and all for just 
 30!! With a price like that you have to get it. And you dont even have to like table tennis to 
 enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diabloooooooooo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is really cool! I love playing table tennis in real life and I never imagined it would 
 be this fun on a game console as well! There is lots of stuff to unlock like costumes and stadiums 
 and you can play in tournament mode and exhibition mode. The graphics are awsome and it has great 
 gameplay. Its especially fun playing with friends. The crowd reactions ar really cool as well. 
 Every character is unique and everyone should be able to find a character they can play well with. 
 I really wish they had doubles in this game but otherwise buy it, even if you are just thinking 
 about it. Its long lasting fun for a small price :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richie-irwin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  i was in game about to pre order gta lcs when there was an xbox 360 there with no one playing on 
 it so i started playing on it. i thought the graphics and gameplay were very good. And in the short 
 time playing it thought it was very fun and addictive if i had an xbox 360 i would defoniatly buy 
 this game its great.
  It's a mint table tennis game. The control is good; the precision mechanics are impressive. The 
 gameplay is tough, intense, and it's engaging in a subconscious way. It gets under your skin, the 
 way that any good game does. But it's also not a full-feature game. Table Tennis is a damn fine 
 game, but it's bare bones. I guess there is a reason it's $39.99, not $59.99
  
  . Table Tennis starts with the now infamous Rockstar Games typeface, the one that's almost exactly 
 the same as the one used in Grand Theft Auto. A ping pong ball bounces on screen and settles, showing 
 the Rockstar logo. You press start and groovy techno music filters through the speakers, and you're 
 instantly looking at the menu and a top-down view of two athletes slugging it out. Right away, 
 you'll notice the menu is slim with choices. You can pick from Tournament, Exhibition, Training 
 mode, and Xbox Live. Seeing that logo on the screen usually gives me a feeling that something really 
 heavy and hardcore is going to happen next. That I'm going to be given a wild, highly choreographed 
 story set-up and experience. Here, it's just two people smashing a ping pong ball at one another. 
 No story, no car chase, no guns. It's a dichotomy I'm still getting used to. 
  
  i think the controls are fairly easy and so is the difficulty i reccomend this game to sports game 
 lovers
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpookyX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I often think back fondly about how games changed since I started playing them in the late 1970's. 
 My first game was pong and my love of games never ceased or faltered. Games evolved over time bringing 
 us new experiences, stories and simulations we could not even have imagined. I love being able 
 to manage an entire hockey team from coaching to concessions or living life in Cyrodil. However, 
 few games take us back to those early times when you could play a game that focused on just one 
 thing and you tried to get better at that one thing to the exclusion of everything else because 
 in this day and age we probably would find it boring. Table Tennis proves that this does not have 
 to be the case.
  
  Table Tennis may not seem like an exciting title of a game and many of my friends scoffed at it 
 when I said it was the next title on my purchase list. However, after I spent a few days with it 
 and invited them over to give it a try they immediately saw how frustrating it can be when you 
 are an amatuer and how rewarding it is once you hone your skills.
  
  This is not deep in management of characters, careers or teams. Its about building your own skill 
 and taking the competition apart. The graphics are very nice but once you start playing they tend 
 to fade in the background as you focus on the little ball and your position to it. Unfortunately, 
 if you do not have Xbox live it really limits your experience because playing online is the real 
 appeal but the AI competition is strong and you do work in single player to unlock characters, 
 levels and clothes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Table Tennis, being one of the 360's more unique titles, is a fun, intense experience that is unparalleled 
 by any game out right now. A mix of clean, good graphics, intense 1-on-1 gameplay, and suprisinlgy 
 well implemented controls means Table Tennis is a game that most people will be able to enjoy.
 
  
  Table Tennis is not very deep in the sense of single player, and should not be considered a buy 
 if there is not an xbox live account or a persistent buddy to play against. While single player 
 does compliment the game, it certainly does not complete the Table Tennis experience. A short series 
 of offline tournaments will keep you occupied for a few hours, ranging from the Amateur to Pro 
 skill levels. Through these tournaments you can unlock Characters, Clothes, and of course the almighty 
 Achievements. However, many of the Achievements are only unlockable online.
  
  The game's online portion will add life to this unique title. Quickmatch and Custom match options 
 are available in both Ranked and Unranked, as well as Table Tennis Network, which allows you to 
 watch other players duke it out online. The Table Tennis Network is often a bit laggy at times, 
 and the only real reason for it is to unlock one 5-point achievement, or if you really want to 
 watch someone play. Quick and Custom matches let you play online in Tournaments and Exhibitions: 
 Tournaments being longer, multiple game series while Exhibitions are two-win matches, which you 
 will participate in according to your dedication and skill levels, as well as how much time you 
 feel like spending on one game.
  
  One will certainly ask how the controls work on Rockstar's Table Tennis. The controls are very 
 simple, and very accesible. The left thumbstick will move the character side to side as well as 
 towards and away from the table. Spin on the ball may be done using either the face buttons or 
 the right thumbstick. Once your character is in position for the hit, choose a spin to put on the 
 ball. Once you have started the swing, you can dictate which direction to hit the ball in combination 
 with the spin by pushing in the respective direction with the left thumbstick. The longer a face 
 button or direction on the right stick is held, the harder the ball will be hit, resulting in an 
 art of perfection to weathered gamers, and a useful feature when you want to speed the game up. 
 The control scheme is well implemented, meaning that beginners won't have much trouble picking 
 this game, while experienced players will be able to manipulate the ball's direction and spin to 
 perfection and get the ball right where they want it. 
  
  Rockstar's Table Tennis is not just fun to play, but it is also good looking. Character animations 
 look smooth and natural, for the most part, and clothing animations are excellent. Environments 
 are not particularly impressive, as there isn't much to see, but what's visible is fairly detailed 
 and vibrant. As the game wears on, sweat soaks through the player's shirts, adding more realism 
 to the game. One of the game's drawbacks is that during any game mode, especially when a hit is 
 going to be hard, the game seems to slow down. Not in frame rate, but the time itself seems to 
 slow as your character makes a swing at the ball. It makes the game look unlike Table Tennis in 
 that it also makes it look unlike real life. Speed issues aside, Table Tennis is eye candy for 
 a while.
  
  Being one of the cheaper games out on the 360, Table Tennis has a lot to offer, but its lack of 
 depth may leave some with a hollow spot in their heart. But the fact is, Table Tennis does what 
 it wants to, and it does it well. So if you are looking for a unique experience that is enjoyable 
 on and offline, Table Tennis certainly shouldn't be looked past.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flaccid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game may seem like its a horrible idea, but its actually very addicting and a fun game. It's 
 enjoyable to play alone or with friends, it was really a good time. At first I was skeptical, but 
 after playing it I was surprised by the addictive and great gameplay. It really left me yearning 
 to play again. I would advise people who liked virtua tennis to play this game, or anybody who 
 likes ping pong. It is definitely a must play for the 360. It has pretty good replay value, and 
 its fun to play online or against friends. I would advise giving this game a shot.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerver1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar knows how to make something popular again. They made the Warriors popular again because 
 of its success, street racing cool as noticed in the Midnight Club series, and now table tennis 
 simple and fun because of this new game. The gameplay is simple and fun with lots of depth with 
 characters having strengths and weaknesses. As in recent 360 sports games like Fight Round 3 and 
 Top Spin 2, the difficulty increases quickly in the single player to make it a challenge, which 
 is good and make you a better player online. In the end, Table Tennis sets the bar for future ping 
 pong games if other companies want to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nglorious
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY- This is where the heart of the game lies. I have never experienced a game that was so 
 addicting and inspiring since the days of Street Fighter 2 and Mario Kart. You never want to put 
 the controller down. As a lot of critics have already stated, the controls are easy to learn, but 
 complex to master. Everything flows very smoothly, thanks in no small part to a nice steady framerate. 
 Even on the online modes, the game seems to keep a smooth clip. Of course, there is the occasional 
 lag, but it is nowhere near coming close to taking away the enjoyment and integrity of the online 
 component. However, i will note that when 2 great players do meet online, you better prepare yourselft 
 for numerous 100+ hit rallyies. While this kinda of intense exchanging is fun, it takes away a 
 little of the realism from the sport. Im sorry Rockstar, this just doesnt happen in real life. 
 After 100 hits you start getting tired and losing that competitive edge because you as a player 
 know that when you connect with 7 or 8 consecutive slams, one should land after a while, but no, 
 it gets pretty easy to return just about anything if you become an experienced player. i just wish 
 the game engine wasnt so forgiving. This statement isnt so much as a knock to Rockstar, its just 
 a note to hopefully influence later interations into the series. Oops, am I already talking about 
 a sequel. Kudos to Rockstar for surprising the critics, and delivering some of the best gameplay 
 in years.
  
  SOUND: Pretty self explanatory. the sounds of the paddle connecting with the ball are just as they 
 should sound. Crowd ambience is superd at getting the player immersed in the moment. Whether the 
 crowd is cheering your name on game point, or cheering for the opposing player, you always feel 
 you are part of the experience. I cant count the number of times when I pumped my fist playing 
 with Jesper after a thrilling smash right in the oppositions grill. It definately keeps your blood 
 flowing.
  
  GRAPHICS- I'll start off by saying that these are definately next generation graphics. the player 
 models and facial features are definately on par with the likes of Fight Night Round 3. And those 
 cloth physics, insane!!! On the negative side, I felt the backround environments could have used 
 a little more personality, but this is just nitpicking considering how you will never have time 
 to sight see if you want to maintain that 100+ hit rally. All in all, great graphics to carry us 
 into the next generation.
  
  REPLAY VALUE- This game definately has that arcade feel. I agree with everyone else, this game 
 really could have used a creat-a-player mode. this game is just screaming for a Tom Hanks look-a-like. 
 I guess Juergen is as close as its gets. But what this game does have, it does exceptionally well. 
 With challenging offline tournaments, intelligently laid out achievements, and great online play, 
 this game will keep you coming back for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mack10
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  When Rockstar announced a Table Tennis game for the Xbox 360, I'm sure a lot of people were as 
 shocked as I was. I mean sure, Rockstar is known for great games like the Grand Theft Auto series, 
 but sports games? I wasn't in the least bit convinced the people at Rockstar would pull this off, 
 but sure enough they did, and boy does it rock!
  
  Sport simulation has been a tricky road for most companies. EA sports is known for many great games 
 of football, hockey, soccer, and basketball, but never did they really simulate any of the aforementioned 
 sports to perfection, or even close for that matter; I mean, how many of you can go undefeated 
 in an 82 game season in NHL06? I doubt I'm the only one. 
  
  Rockstar changed all that. They took the sport of Table Tennis, and implemented the best possible 
 gameplay system and instantly had a hit title. Picture this: you, glistening forehead, sweaty collar, 
 start the 2nd match with a left spin trying to catch your opponent off guard - he returns it to 
 the right; back and forth you go and things speed up a bit, then a lot, then a lot more, and the 
 rally count is over a 100 before you return the ball to an open left side of the table knowing 
 full well you wrapped this one up, but your opponent makes a desperate dive for the ball and returns 
 it high up in the air giving you a chance to end this one for good, and determined, you put an 
 end to the match with a hard top spin that skims the edge of the table and earns you a point. Every 
 point can be an adventure, and with the right difficulty and right opponent, you will be entertained 
 for hours on end.
  
  Although a superb title, this game lacks on some ends. You have a limited amount of characters 
 you can choose from and no create-a-player feature to customize your own character (s) . Each character 
 has his or her pros and cons, for instance; one might have a higher power statistic while another 
 might have a higher spin statistic, and the game is good at balancing out each character you face. 
 With lack of characters, comes lack of game modes to choose from; the game allows you to play through 
 four different tournaments with each character available, but it does get repetetive - let me make 
 this clear. I said this game is great, so for me to say its repetetive might give you guys the 
 wrong impression. First off, every sports game is repetetive, so this is nothing new to this genre, 
 but this game can still be fun while repetetive; what I'm trying to establish here is that this 
 game thrives more from its online mode than it does its offline - so its lack in offline options 
 is more than greatly made up for online, mainly because of my, and other's, knack of competition; 
 everyone wants to be the best afterall!
  
  Other offline options consist of exhibition, and multiplayer, with many unlockables you can proclaim 
 your own after meeting certain requirements (i. e. winning 30 games against NPCs - unlocks a new 
 character) . Other unlockables consist of new locations for games, new characters and new outfits 
 for said characters - so the game is rewarding at times. The online portion of the game consists 
 of Ranked and Player matches; Player matches are basically "play for fun" esque games, while Ranked 
 matches keep track of your win loss columns and rank you against thousands of other players around 
 the world. There are two online game modes - exhibition and tournament. Exhibition mode allows 
 you to play a single match against another player with one of the following settings: 7 point match, 
 11 point match, or 21 point match - best out of 1, 3, or 5 - using any character and any location 
 that suits your taste. Tournament mode allows you to play against a group of players in what are 
 called "timed matches". Each game goes up to 5, and you have a certain ammount of time to beat 
 the opponent you're facing as many times as you can; or atleast one up him to get the win yourself. 
 The tournament mode ranks you in that specific tournament as you go from player to player, the 
 more wins you stack up the better your chances are of landing in first place and ultimately winning 
 - tournament mode allows you to set it up so that either 4 or 8 players compete against each other.
 
  
  Game modes aside, the game looks sensational. It is apparent Rockstar took special care to make 
 the characters lively. The character models look great, especially when their foreheads sweat as 
 the matches progress. Their shirts move fluidly as the characters move around the screen and the 
 animations are just as fluid. The enviornments, although simple, are quite superb and serve their 
 purpose.
  
  Overall, great gameplay coupled with great graphics results in great presentation making Table 
 Tennis for the 360 a must own title. At a measly $40 (US) , there is no excuse for any Xbox owner 
 out there not to own this game. Good sport simulation games are far and little in between. Great 
 sport simulation games are almost nonexistent; Table Tennis ranks up there among the best, and 
 you don't have to be a fan of the sport to enjoy this game. Eagerly awaiting Rockstar's next serve, 
 but this will quench my thirst for a long time to come.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Crusader
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  This game at first may seem a little difficult, but its just plain out fun. The Tournament gives 
 alot of content and you start to get the feeling of pro table tennis.
  
  I would buy this game for 40$ on used, its a fun 2-player tennis table action game that never gets 
 tiring for the 360 console.
  
  The online play is when it really showes on the ranked matches and player matches. You can really 
 test your skills that you learned on the tutorial and tournament to real players like yourself 
 online. You start getting more and more knowledge of all the moves and the possiblilites of what 
 a great game like this showed!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desertspartan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis is one of the best Xbox 360 titles to date! It is simply a 
 great game! Firstly, the Gameplay is very innovative. Simply press certain buttons to hit certain 
 spins and balls, and use the bumpers to indicate how hard you want to hit the ball. The colour 
 of the ball also indicates the shot your opponent just hit. The gameplay is also very smooth, but 
 often very fast paced. The ball will bounce from side to side and you'll be hardly able to see 
 it! There are some lag issues with the online gameplay e. g. the ball travelling or a player disappearing 
 then reappearing, but apart from that the online play is exciting.
  
  The graphics are also great. The character models look brilliant and are very life-like. Their 
 clothes move very realistically and the table itself looks great. The crowed also looks very good. 
 Overall the whole game is very polished and looks almost as good as Oblivion.
  
  The Sound is pretty good. You can here some sound from the players when they hit the ball and everything 
 sounds realistic. The ball sounds good when it hits the table or the bats, but its nothing astounding.
 
  
  As far as price goes its a bargain. 24.99 is a very good price. You do get quite a lot for the 
 price, I mean theres plenty of achievements and content, but at the end of the day theres only 
 about 10 hours gameplay and only a few modes. If the game was anymore money then it probably wouldnt 
 sell.
  
  Overall this game is very good. The graphics and gameplay (which are the two main things) are very 
 good and so is the price. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  "Rockstar's Table Tennis" a good sports game as long as your a fan of the sport or normal tennis. 
 The graphics are great for a budget title, and it can get a little addictive for a few hours. There 
 is just too little to talk about.
  
  Sure you have players from all around the world but you only get one person from that country. 
 I don't think it would of been to much to ask for them to of had a male and female character for 
 all countries. You want to play for favorite country but your stuck with a gender they already 
 have. The courts are nice but nothing really different about them either.
  
  The character models are nice, and detailed. They also show real expression to what is happening 
 in the game. If you miss a really easy shot, your player will look disappointed. The unlockables 
 are four characters, about six shirts (for each character and they are the same) and a few courts. 
 This game shines best in multiplayer, nothings better than pure competition. The sound is pretty 
 much you expect, the sound a ball being hit with a paddle and it hitting the table. Can't forget 
 the sounds the crowds cheering for you.
  
  Once you get down to it, any game of table tennis (or normal tennis) is just a pretty looking version 
 of pong. The ball goes back a forth, until someone misses. Sure there is a net and if you hit it 
 the other person scores but that the only difference. I like this game but I wish there more of 
 a challenge to it, you can unlock everything in about a day. Unless your a true fan of the sport, rent 
 it or play the real sport. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyominguk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  when i first heard about this game i thought yeah right! but after seeing it in action i got a 
 copy, and wow!! its just so addictive! its so fast paced and frustrating all at the same time. the 
 character models are fantastic! tha balls react just the way you think they would too. the music 
 side of things are great! the more you rally the ball (knock it back and fourth from player to 
 player) the louder the music gets, the crowd react the more the ball stays in play too! on the 
 down side rock star could have put in a career mode, more outfits, balls etc and the option to 
 create your own player. so this is why it only gets an 8.7 and not a 10. but still pick it up and 
 give it a go u will be supprised! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crash112492
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  GREAT 
 
  
  
  great control on the characters. just way to 
 
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! :-) i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 
 i i i i i i i i i i i i i i loved it!!! !@!! !!! !!! it was awesome. it rocked. good graphics too. 
 the character models were great. i just think it was way too easy even on the hardest setting. 
 go buy it right now. best 360 game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles75
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Okay so for all you table tennis buffs out there here is the game for you. For all you gamers out 
 there hoping that since this is a Rockstar game title (Rockstar is the company behind such great 
 sports games as Grand Theft Auto) there must be girls, drinking, and you bludgeoning someone to 
 death with your paddle, I am afraid that you will be sorely dissapointed. The gameplay is surprisingly 
 addicting and actually very deep. You can pick up the controller and almost right away start competing 
 but as you invest more time into the game you'll also learn more ways of playing and make yourself 
 an even more formidable opponent. Various spins and degrees of power can be carried out and there 
 are certain times that a certain spin will work better then other spins. Despite this depth however 
 the game is sadly lacking gameplay. There is no story or career mode to the game and all that leaves 
 are drop in 1v1 games and some tournament modes. This lack of options is noticeable but shouldn't 
 detract to much from a game that gives a chance to have your friends over and wipe their faces 
 all over the table. The graphics are very good and if your the kind of person that's into having 
 the console player's sweating you will be more then happy to find out that this game boasts that 
 incredibly gaming breakthrough (never really got where sweating became an enviable factor in gaming 
 but hey I guess whatever creams your donut) . So all-in-all this game is a pretty solid shot at 
 a sport which hasn't been really seen as much of an avenue for gaming in the past. Every once in 
 a while you will wish that there was more to do on the game but I guess that's just how it goes. 
 As far as why in the world Rockstar decided to go from murder and home raids to ping pong that 
 is something I will never know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpudmonkeyInc
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty amazing, by my standards. At first glance it looks like this game is paper-thin 
 with only Exhibition and Tournament modes, wherein only 3 tourneys actually exist. The truth, however, 
 is revealed once you start getting into the subtle, perfected gameplay. You could spend a month 
 mastering a particular style of play. However, as is the case with most good games - there will 
 still be ways of beating you. Adaptation is key here, and that's what keeps the action fresh and 
 exciting. It is because of this that you will probably never tire of Rockstar's Table Tennis, especially 
 if you're playing through X-live.
  
  I'd like to see Rockstar use X-box Live to its fullest here, and expand on their original game, 
 by possibly adding more arenas, characters, and, if at all possible, modes. If that ever happens, 
 this will absolutely be one of those games that I keep with me for the entire duration of a system 
 generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demon75
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  Pure gaming goodness. This game is perfect for Xbox Live. Just when you think you're good someone 
 comes along and schools you. This game truly is "Easy to learn, hard to master!" It turns out to 
 be much harder than it seems at first glance. Props to Rockstar for great looking charachter models, 
 nice ambient sound and smooth online play. On the downsides, it's very thin when it comes to modes. 
 Exhibition and Tournament only. It would of been nice to see a career mode. To me $40 is not "budget" 
 so a bit more single player value would be cool. If you enjoy fast reflex gaming than and fluid 
 online play that doesnt involve FPS guns than this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKiller
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Rockstar's Table Tennis, I thought that it would be an all style and no 
 substance type of game. Just take a look at Arena Football. But once I picked up the controller, 
 I knew that this was the best sports game of the year. Not just because of the look or sound of 
 it, but because it actually has excellent gameplay.
  
  Before I go on any further, I will describe the sport to you. Table tennis (a. k. a. ping pong) is 
 a lot like a smaller and speedier version of tennis. You have the same rules of tennis with the 
 winning point number at 11. That's about the only difference that you will find.
  
  While the rules are like the classic Pong, Rockstar actually takes the fullest advantage of the 
 Xbox 360's processing power, which is a major leap for Rockstar. When you first get into a match, 
 the game shows close-up views of the players. This is a great thing because the character models 
 are gorgeous. No longer do you have the blocky graphics of GTA or Manhunt. Now you have highly 
 detailed characters, seamless animations, and pixel-perfect lighting that surpass even the mighty 
 NBA 2K6 and Madden NFL 06. When the ball is speeding toward you with great force, you actually 
 see your player trying to recover. If you're in the middle of a heated match, you actually see 
 the players swaying faster than they were in the beginning. Every character looks, reels, and reacts 
 to how the game is going. It's too bad that the environments don't look just as good. Basically, 
 they look good, but you probably won't get the same reaction to the environments as you will the 
 character models. Overall, though, they still look like a next-gen game should.
  
  The sound is pretty good, too, if not mindblowing. You have the sounds of the ball being hit and 
 the arena-style echo in the background from the announcer. The music also has a great vibe going 
 as well. When you first start up the game, you hear the classic Rockstar music that you are used 
 to hearing. The big problem with the sound is that there is no ACTUAL commentary. The only thing 
 that you get is the announcer telling the score and the cheering of the crowds either chanting 
 your name or your opponent's name. Maybe they will add full commentary in the next Table Tennis 
 game, but it is such a HUGE dissapointment after playing the EA and 2K Sports games.
  
  But with that said, looks and sound does nothing if you don't bring your A-game. This is where 
 Table Tennis succeeds over other first-attempt sports games in this generation. The controls are 
 very simple to pick up. Each face button represents a serve, whether it's a forehand, backhand, 
 lefthand, or righthand serve. The score would probably be a 5 or 6 if that was all you could do, 
 but don't count this game out just yet. When you charge up the meter on the upper-lefthand corner, 
 you can hold the right bumper down to use a focus shot which, when used, slows the match down and 
 helps you hit an extremely fast ball. This may sound gimmicky at first, but it actually becomes 
 necessary on harder difficulties. When you hold the left bumper down, you can perform a soft shot. 
 When the ball goes up in the air, you can hold any of the face buttons down and perform a charge 
 shot. There is a lot more to tell you, but I will leave you to find those secrets. When you play 
 against the computer, it's pretty simple, but playing someone on Xbox Live is the real draw.
  
  That's not to say there aren't any problems with this game. When you are on Xbox Live, there 
 are some noticeable frame rate bogs, but these are very minor problems that don't harm the actual 
 game that much. Plus, those dips are few and far between. Really, the only REAL problem that I 
 found was the huge lack of modes. There are no Franchise, Create-a-Character, Doubles, or Superstar 
 modes in the game; just Tournament, Exibition, Training, and Xbox Live modes.
  
  Now, obviously the Xbox 360 isn't the best console to create a ping pong game on, what with the 
 advanced technology of the next-gen console and the simplicity of the sport. But thanks to the 
 effort that Rockstar put into the game instead of just finding a control scheme that mostly works 
 and shoving it out the door, Table Tennis could very well be the next great sports game since Madden. 
 If you have any doubts about the gameplay, cast them aside now. This could be the most fun you 
 ever had with a ping pong ball since Pong and simply the best sports game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroidmaniac88
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 31, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  When Rockstar announced it's new game coming to the Xbox 360, everyone was shocked. Why a table 
 tennis game? Well, after all the speculation, it is here. We can all sit down and play this great 
 game. Table Tennis is a fast and frantic game that can get everybody excited. It is light on the 
 single player department with just four tournaments, but the multiplayer is a blast. You can set 
 your own rules on the Xbox Live multiplayer, and try and beat your opponents. The achivements are 
 very good and most of them are tough too get. Table Tennis is the new great game for the 360 and 
 a game that can last you all the way until some of the bigger 360 games launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Table tennis is great at what it sets out to accomplish which is a fun addictive and a realistic 
 take on the sport of table tennis and I use the term sport loosely in this case but nevertheless 
 I found table tennis to be much more entertaining and satisfying then most of the sports games 
 on the market. Sure it may not have the deepest career mode but then again its what this game does 
 have that sets it above the rest and that something is straight up fun gameplay. Few sports games 
 can match the fast paced think on your feet gameplay that table tennis puts on display . Add in 
 interesting styles that vary form player to player and a great online mode and youve got one of 
 the best sports games to come out this year and fromm rockstar no less never thought id say that.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: slapshot720
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  "its just ping-pong." Thats what many people think about this game. However, what they don't know 
 is that this is a ridiculously addictive game that has you coming back time after time.
  
  The gameplay is this game is near perfect. The XYAB buttons are all diffrent types of shots, topspin, 
 backspin, left spin, right spin. When the ball is coming at you, it will apear the certain color 
 which will make you aware of what type of spin is on the ball. This is a brilliant idea seeing 
 as how you learn to counter shots thrown at you. Having 63 hit rallys is just awsome. Gameplay 
 is easily this games best feature (especially online) .
  
  The player models in this game are also amazing. You can see the details of very part on the person, 
 and how much effort Rockstar put into it. Also, another cool feature is that late into a match, 
 the players start to sweat. Just a nifty feature I'd like to add. Some other cool features are 
 the way the ball spins, and the lighting.
  
  Last, but not least, is the sound. An eerie silence sweeps over the crowd when you start the game, 
 but they get louder and louder as the rally goes on. The sound of the ball hitting the table is 
 awsome, as is the sound when it hits the paddle. 
  
  Don't mistake this as a stupid game, because is most certainly isn't. Solid Gameplay and Graphics 
 make this game likable for just about anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silv3rSt0rm82
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  First of all, I think that like a whole bunch of us gamers in mid-age (I'm 24) this game brought 
 us back some memories.
  
  I bought this game remembering how fun it was to play ping-pong in high school breaks and dinner 
 time back when I was 16 or so!
  
  And this game is just as I expected.
  Of course I can barely figure someone playing this game all day long.
  It gets way too repetitive!
 
  But just when you think you got bored and think it'll be a long time before you pop the game back 
 in.
  Your photographic memory plays back your last 60+ hits you had in your last game and now you want 
 some more , or some revenge of any kind :P
  
  This game is pure fun, sure controls could be better...
  Like most of you, it happenned to me 
 a couple of times that when I just wanted to charge a shot so bad that I started pressing to early 
 and my character just won't swing at all cause I missed the "right spot" to start holding.
  Like most of you too Ive been pissed sometimes at how Jesper can hit so hard and fast that you 
 can barely return it 1 out of 5 times!
  But that's part of the game and I'm begginning to get the hang of it.
  The only thing that I 
 think could've make it a little better would've been a complete freedom of your moves. I mean... first, 
 it kinda annoys me how I just hit a quick left on the left analog and my player go left like...3 
 feets further. The other thing would be, imagine if the could've made this game with fight night 
 controls... meaning that you could actually do AWSOME backspins by pushing right analog far Up, 
 then all the way down. Or if you could do wicked topspins by charging down, then push it up fast!
 
  (I guess it's not that they weren't able to... it just gotta be cause even if it was there, we 
 wouldnt have time to do so in quick hits.)
  
  Graphics and sound are just as we'd expect from a next gen game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sicone111
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I love this game!! Their are so many features like tournament online play and it is really fast 
 paced... The focus meter is a nice touch... I have a feeling I will be playing this online religiously!! 
 It gets really crazy how fast it gets during some intense matches and is honestly suprising how 
 much fun I had playing... I cannot wait to go play more of this great innovative title from rockstar!! 
 The graphics are top notch 360 next gen graphics... amazing replayability!! I really can't explain 
 in words how fun it is... You must pick this up and experience it for your self!! I was very suprised 
 how good this game is!! Especially for 40 bux!! AWESOME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jserwatka
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 29, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  I've played all types of games over the last 20 years, and must admit this one came off as 'I'm 
 gonna play WHAT on the 360?!?'. Saw the ad for it a few weeks ago, and also noticed who made the 
 game, but, heck, it was ping-pong nontheless, so, my interest was close to nil.
  
  Walked in to a local big box electronics store, and saw Table Tennis was on sale at $10 off the 
 msrp, so, based on what I had read here at Gamespot, I bought it.
  
  First and foremost, you HAVE to start with the training if you want to have any chance of really 
 becoming good at this game. I recommend going through all of the training chapters over and over 
 until you get a 'perfect score' in each- it will only help you when its time to put your real game 
 face on. Pay attention to ball control during training- the box does say "An exercise in the ultimate 
 zen focus..."- and you almost have to have just that in order to succeed. This isn't Halo, btw, 
 and anyone who thinks they'll just walk up and destroy every opponent will be left with their wireless 
 controller embedded in the wall next to the TV screen. Practice, Grasshopper. 
  
  Although the game has a very slight bit of repetition, losses inspired me to only work harder, 
 and develop Jedi-like ball control. And when one finally DOES 'get it'.... they will still find 
 the person on the other side of the table manages to still stick it to ya unexpectedly. 
  
  Overall, I think Table Tennis will gain ground and popularity simply because it ISN'T another well-known 
 sport. Rent it, and see what you think after three days. I tried playing it on 360 Live, but, oddly, 
 there wasn't anyone playing, so, no review on playing with a real person. 
  
  .... Definately addicting when you get the control down.... until then, be prepared for quite a bit 
 of practice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbrown3
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 29, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Rockstar really hit it out of the park with this one. I was very, VERY skeptical at first about 
 plopping down $40 on this game, but I'm glad I did. I am so happy I didn't rent it and decided 
 to buy! I would have payed way more than $40 for this at ten bucks a day, which is the price that 
 the only place in my area that rents 360 games charges. This may be the first killer app for the 
 360, they could have added a career mode, and a create a player mode, but I love the game just 
 the way it is. For $40 you just can't go wrong, the gameplay is amazing, the graphics are top notch. 
 I wish Rockstar would get ahold of a major sports gaming franchise like NFL, NBA or NHL, to REALLY 
 show EA Sports and 2k6 games how sports games are supposed to be done!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherbie1989
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 29, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  K K i will admitt at first i was like omg tble tennis lame. I bought it dont ask me y but i did. 
 I said omg they actually have a good gasme here. Graphics are good the gameplay is easy. Just the 
 whole game is a great experience.
  So i am really happy i bought it but if ur not sure if u want it i say rent it and make sure u 
 would like it. The games can be long the tournaments are hard when u go up in difficulty go figure. 
 I like the game and i think some of u not all will like it to. The game can get addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halothug4life
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 4, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  It is really fun to play. I was never into table tennis, but this game is great, from the graphics 
 to the game play. i know this is Rock Star first time on a next-gen game. They did a good job though. i 
 think they're using this game to test out how they're going to make th GTA-4 characters. so fare 
 they look great.
  I got one Question though. WHERE IS THE CREATE A CHARACTER. I think if it would've added that feature 
 it woul've gotten a higher score. It just needed more depth. o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o oo o o oo o oo o o o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 28, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is a prime example of "it's not how the game looks, it's how it plays" THIS GAME IS FUN!!!!! 
 Really it is...... 
  
  Don't beleive me ask Liu Ping, some of the matches can get really intense with sometimes having 
 168 hits in a single match.
  
  There's a few players and table tennis gear you can unlock, and various arenas to lock, but after 
 that...... There's nothing else, THAT' S IT .......
  
  But the game plays extremely well, and thats what the developers were and are hoping for GREAT 
 ADDICTIVE GAMEPLAY, and I must say that they accomplished what they set off to do.
  
  The only thing now is the consumers have to set off these sales in order to see a sequel of this 
 instantly classic table tennis game...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huniper1
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game with mild expectations, boy was I surprised. This game is more addictive 
 than Halo 2 on live but has the fast paced gameplay of Tetris. The first time you pick up the controller 
 go through the training, its a little slow but it really helps you get the basics of the games 
 and lets you into some of the subtle playing tricks. From countering shots, the different spins, 
 and slow shots the game is very deep. It may not seem like it on the surface but once you get into 
 the game and start experimenting with the different curves and shots you won't want to put the 
 controller down. Trying to find a way to trick the other player is the goal of the game or you 
 can just work on your reflexes to knock the ball just pass the opponents paddle, in a Link to the 
 Past Gannondorf style battle. Once you get into a heated rally and you mess up, don't be surprised 
 if you are ready to throw you controller at your TV. The vibration feature plays a huge role in 
 your game, when you are making a shot and charging up the controller will vibrate to let you know 
 that you are getting close to the edge. I cannot pick up virtual tennis without thinking something 
 is missing. All in all this game is worth 60 dollars let alone 40. This is definatly a rent if 
 not a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdixie07
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This is defaintly one of the most realistic sporting games ever, the are alot of different ways 
 to win a point, all of the players have there own ability, the only thing for me is there is not 
 enough players in the game. The graphics are defaintly next gen and so is the gameplay, i didnt 
 think that a table tennis game would be so much fun and i would recommend that every 360 owner 
 should get this game but is also recommend that you have xbox live to get the most out of this 
 game, Rockstar have defainly came up with another winner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spast1c
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  I have never liked Rockstar games, but this game is amazing. A game Rockstar made without violence 
 and gore is remarkable.
  
  Gameplay : The gameplay is amazing, it is very addictive and fun. The physics are perfect. It is 
 very quick, and you can really feel the speed of the ball. The controls are perfect, they are easy 
 to learn and react very nicely.
  
  Graphics : The graphics are brilliant. The sweat effects are genius, the player models look outstanding. 
 The shirts look amazing, they bounce around just like real shirts when your playing table tennis.
 
  
  Sound : The sound in this game isnt anything special, its just sounds of the rackets hitting the 
 ball. The sounds are very realistic, but thats it. There is some random music that plays in long 
 rallies and it gets a bit annoying.
  
  Value : This game has very good value because of the online play. The online play is probably one 
 of the best if not the best for a 360 game so far. There is very little lag. There is quite a bit 
 to unlock as well.
  
  Overall Table Tennis is a very addictive and fun game, that will entertain you for quite a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BWSTSW2K
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 28, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  Rockstar Games presents Table Tennis is one of the most fun and addictive sports titles in years. 
 In fact, you might play this game for a mere hour and realize that you long for Virtua Tennis no 
 more. This game successfully manages to capture an arcade-like adrenaline rush with simulated bliss 
 the likes of which will make you giddy inside. Since when has playing Ping Pong been so much fun? 
 
  
  Rockstar truly are amazing developers, but everybody was surprised when they announced the making 
 of this title. How can they produce a family-friendly game that involves knocking a hollow ball 
 across a small table with rubber paddles? Have they lost their marbles? 
  
  I felt this way at first, but the moment the game disc disappeared inside my Xbox 360 I knew why 
 Rockstar had set out to make a game like this. Rockstar are innovators, creators of genuinely creative 
 products. Like Grand Theft Auto (you knew it had to come up somewhere) Table Tennis screams quality 
 from the off. 
  
  First of all, there is no game like it on the market today. Sure we have Virtua Tennis and Top 
 Spin, but they are games of regular Tennis, not Table Tennis. Believe me, both games are different; 
 they are not as similar as you might think. For starters, Table Tennis is a much faster, more intense 
 game. The distance you are hitting the ball only travels over a nine foot long table, as opposed 
 to a huge Tennis court. 
  
  Rockstar have really nailed this concept of tense gameplay, too. Everything about Table Tennis 
 is just about as perfect as it gets. Graphics are stunning, sound effects are bang on, and gameplay 
 is unbelievably tight. 
  
  On the subject of visuals, what you will witness here are truly next generation player models, 
 clothing effects, sweat, courts, you name it. The player models really do have to be seen to be 
 believed. I would say that this game equals if not slightly outdoes Fight Night Round 3. Clothing 
 is superb, too. Unlike so many games that try to simulate realistic clothing and fail (usually 
 due to clipping and other such visual defects) Table Tennis does it right. 
  
  T-Shirts hang off players and bounce around just as you'd expect, and never once does it mesh with 
 the player's skin. Eventually, sweat will begin to pour though the fabric, creating realistic sweat 
 patches under their arms, across their backs... impressive indeed. 
  
  The game also boasts some of the finest sound effects I have ever heard. Firstly, the audience 
 effects are the best ever heard in a sports game. You will feel like you are a part of every match 
 when they call your player name, stomp their feet in a game's climax and occasionally you'll hear 
 somebody yelling in the background. It truly creates an atmosphere that is so far unparalleled 
 in any videogame. 
  
  Just as impressive are the active and ambient sounds. The ball itself is perfectly realistic, and 
 the sounds the players make as they dive for ball and drive their feet hard to the floor is superb. 
 These are some of the best in-game sounds ever heard. 
  
  But what really stands out in this game is the gameplay. To say Rockstar have made the gameplay 
 tight would be something of an understatement. Everything here it highly focused, visceral and 
 thorough. In as many words, this is some of the most refined and brilliant gameplay seen in any 
 sports game made so far. 
  
  Rockstar did strip out some of the usual features a game like this has, such as a fully fledged 
 career mode and excessive customization. But the Exhibition and Tournament modes are great all 
 the same. 
  
  One thing you will often do on this game is play with other players, be that over Xbox Live or 
 just with friends around the TV. Table Tennis might actually be one of the most fun games for this 
 very activity you've played in quite some time. In a nutshell, Rockstar's Table Tennis is a superb 
 game the whole family will enjoy, and one you are likely to be playing years from now at every 
 given moment. 
  
  Overall Score
  
  9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan_FX
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 28, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Table tennis is a new game in the sports genre which adds motive and playability to the genre.
 
  
  As the name says 'Rockstar presents Table Tennis' which is a little offputting at first because 
 when you hear 'Rockstar' you automaticly think of 'Bling & Grand Theft Auto' this is not the case 
 in this game and it looks astonishly beautiful and they have tuned it just right.
  
  When starting off the game you come up with people doing some table tennis in the background, then 
 a menu pops up with modes like Tournament ( Campain ) , Exibition , Training, Xbox Live , Settings.
 
  
  Though there might not be enough modes to serve someones likings this game will totally blow you 
 away with the graphics and gameplay.
  
  Here is some indeph review on some of the modes.
  
  Tournament : Here are all the 'circuits' which unlock characters, Costumes & Venues, this is 
 also the place where it shows tournament style system.
  
  Exabition : 1v1?, Practice with Bot then here is the place to do it, after picking it , you are 
 introduced to a character menu where you pick your character then the bot or your friend picks 
 their's and your off to start playing.
  
  Practice : Practice is a set of mini games to get your skills fine tuned.
  
  Xbox Live : You 
 can play 1 on 1 matches and have spectators, there is Player Matches (non-Ranked) and Ranked Matches 
 (ranked) , Gametypes for each Match is Timed Tournament Matches or Just normal Exabition Matches.
 
  
  Graphics are highly detailed in this game, with the shirt physic's being top notch and the player 
 models look surprisingly detailed to the skin and to the eyeballs, Also to the way they move, they 
 will move realistly aswell.
  
  A. I. is a problem in most games because people need a challenge and this game will give you one 
 if tuned to the right difficutly, if you start off straight on hard the bots can be incredably 
 difficult to defeat since there faster, and response times are more lethal than yours.
  
  Overall : the game is great, And is for everybody this is a true next gen game and a first of its 
 kind, for 25 this is a great game to pick up and give you the joy that you and your 360 deserve. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 27, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about this game, Hmmm well it looks good and plays well online against other people 
 and even the offline AI is pretty good.
  
  It does take some getting used to, but this game is a side step away from the everyday ordinary 
 game you are used to playing. Yes it does feel like Top Spin and it is tennis, But its a lot faster, 
 a whole lot faster!
  
  Read all the reviews written here on gamespot, a lot of people seem to like this game. I personally 
 did too, But I suck at tennis.
  
  The graphics and character models are simply wonderful and the collision of the ball to paddle 
 is great. I wish Top Spin would have been this good.
  
  DO NOT Buy this game first, definitely RENT this one before leaping into another 360 game purchase, 
 even though its only $40 it just doesn't seem like you would spend that much time playing it like 
 Oblivion.
  
  I'm a little upset with 360 sports games not offering that many features their first time around. 
 No create-a-player, what I wanna be the champ!
  
  Please check out my other 360 reviews and thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nc454
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I've enjoyed the Grand Theft Auto series ever since the original with a top down view. So of course 
 i was more than thrilled when I heard Rockstar was going to produce a version of Table Tennis. 
 Guns, money and paddles right? Wrong. Rockstar Presents Table Tennis is just that-a Table tennis 
 game. There are no crazy looking characters, nor are there any out of shape fat ganstas with tatoos. 
 This game is just a purists' ping pong-I mean Table Tennis game. 
  The upside to this Table Tennis sim is that you have the choices to play as either male or female 
 from countries ranging from China to the Americas. All the characters are accurately detailed down 
 to the sweat accumulating on the "athletes'shirts down to incredible facial expressions when 
 he or she misses a shot. You do have the choices to play as either male or female from countries 
 ranging from China to the Americas.
  On the downside, Table Tennis lacks the depth of a good sports sim. Besides exhibition and tournament 
 mode, Rockstar includes online play through Xbox Live but doesn't support four player doubles matches. 
 
  Overall, Rockstar Presents Table Tennis is the best Table Tennis sim out today (it's the only Table 
 Tennis game currently) but it's lack of depth and monotonous gameplay make it a good pick-up and 
 play for twenty-minute game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 27, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Well all you do is hit the ball back and forth , and it isn't that fun. There are 4 
 types of ways to hit the ball , it dosen't really make a difference what you do , you have to beat 
 the computer 35 times to get the good characters , (if you dont have the good characters you dont 
 stand a chance on live) , it's very repetetive and boring , it's not like EXTREME pong or anything 
 that would make it exciting
  
  Graphics - The graphics are average for a next gen game 
  
  Sound - You ever hear the sound of a paddle hitting a ball ? 
  
  Value - In order to compete 
 online you need to win 35 offline matches , then once you get on barley anyone on the game has 
 a headset , there is one gametype and it's boring. 
  
  Bad Tilt - It cost 40 dollars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drachman
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 26, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game has excellent visuals and sound, probably some of the best on the Xbox 360 to date. However, 
 a game with all flash and nothing else is just that, nothing.
  
  There is a tournament mode, a training mode, exhibition, and Xbox Live play. The Tournament mode 
 gets old quickly. The training gives you the basics but really doesn't go into extensive detail, 
 making it difficult when you actually go into Tournament mode against difficult opponents. Exhibition 
 really doesn't have any benefit unless you're playing multiplayer.
  
  The only place that really shines on this game is the Xbox Live mode. This is really the only place 
 that you're going to spend the majority of your time. Little to no lag, very fun playing against 
 something other than the computer which isn't very forgiving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgall80
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 26, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, when I read that the 1st Rock-star Games exclusive title for 360 was table tennis, 
 I scoffed and wrote it off as lame. The screen shots, as beautiful as they are, do the game no 
 justice. You need to play it. The game is set up very basic and there are not tons of options. 
 What it does deliver is an addicting, fast, fun, smack talking arena for you and your friends to 
 trash talk about messing up a 40+ hit volley. Once the you reach the 10 hit mark and the "keep 
 it going" music kicks in you find yourself playing a vicious game of keep it up rather than playing 
 for the point. Using both analogs to hit is more rewarding than using the face buttons (like Fight 
 Night Round 3) . Only playing with a couple for friends for a while I can see this game sweeping 
 college campus' across the country... it brings me back to the days of Double Dribble, Blades of 
 Steal, RBI Baseball, the sports game at its simplest form, no crazy game customizations, no subbing 
 in and out, just pop it in, grab a brew, invite friends or play it on-line and enjoy till your 
 eyes bleed. A create a player is desperately needed and may be its one micro-transaction I wouldn't 
 be **** about if they make one available. The no doubles feature doesn't bother me as much, I mean 
 who plays doubles ping pong anyways?
  
  Bottom line, for $40 bucks buy this game is a no-brainer. It delivers fast, fun and addicting game 
 play. Don't worry about the somewhat steep difficulty during the single player tourney, because 
 odds are you wont be playing it that much. Gather some friends or play on-line, for 20mins or hours 
 at a time, its definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 26, 2006 2:54 am PT
Review:  The Good: an amazing, truly next-gen graphics, cool gameplay mechanics and alot of fun to play. 
 and when i mean an amazing truly next-gen graphics is everything from the swet to the character 
 models, and animations as well as everything else. there is cool characters to chose from and a 
 game that is alot of fun to play still.
  
  The Bad: no healthy, long carrer mode and lag issues in the online-play. and not a whole alot of 
 characters to chose from.
  
  this game is just a game that is alot of fun with quite alot of characters to chose from and amazing 
 graphics, make it a game that just plain fun, and it sheeper than your average xbox 360 game, that's 
 means that table tennis cost just 40 bucks, and it's worthing it, for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgfanr
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying,"Wow!" what a game! 
  
  You can get rid of the old Ping Pong table that your dad use to play with back in the day, that's 
 taking up space in the garage! Because Rockstar has made us the Ping Pong player that we all wish 
 we could be.
  
  They made a simple game great! Now when we see Ping Pong on ESPN, we now will actually watch it 
 for a bit. You will need to mix-up your style depending on your opponent (CPU or Human) . The gameplay 
 is very true to Ping Pong. I wasn't sure it could be done, but RS prove me wrong, and I'm happy 
 to admit that! Xbox Live was done perfectly (if you have Cable connection) . And if you don't want 
 to play but still want to learn how to play it's got a spectator mode online, and you can watch 
 your friends online get "Served"!
  
  But their are some drawbacks: 
  No career mode, create a player, dressing up your player or even improving your players skills.
 
  
  The bottom line is "Buy this game!" it's only $39.99 and I think they are giving it to us CHEAP! 
 ( I got mine the first day at Fry's and it was a one day sale for $29.99, so you know I'm STOKED! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  If I am to tell the truth, when I first heard back in December that Rockstar was going to make 
 a ping pong game, I had my doubts. Sure, they have mastered the Free Roam/Action/Fighting/Racing 
 game two-fold, but can they make a sports game that also destroys anyone's expectations? The answer 
 is simple: Hell yeah they can. This game has so many many assets beyond the basic "Graphics, Gameplay 
 ect." that it is hard to believe this is Rockstar's first edition in the genre. This game is quite 
 possibly the best-made sports game ever when it comes down to the actual comparison of this replica 
 to the real thing. The movement of the players and the sounds of the environment make it look and 
 seem real. You will see your players sweat come down their face, you will see their arm pitts develop 
 condensation under them after a certain period of time, and you will actually see their clothes 
 move in specific direction when the player moves his body and even more, their clothes actually 
 have a fabric design that makes them look like real clothes. Enough about that though, here's what 
 Gamepsot wants me to tell you:
  Gameplay - Excellent. No (yes I said no) glitches makes it Superb from the beginning and then they 
 wow you some more. You have options of Topspin, Backspin, Leftspin and Rightspin. Also, in addition 
 to that, you simultaneously have direction control with the Left Stick. That means if you press 
 Topspin, you can also aim the position of the ball towards the end of your opponents side of the 
 table. Along with those, you have what is called the charge ability, which means you can hold Topspin 
 in and the longer you hold it in before the ball gets to you, you can put more power on it for 
 your return. You also can tell which type of spin your opponents are putting on the ball by the 
 clever color coordination feature on the ball. There's much, much more, but this isn't a game guide 
 so....
  Graphics - Truly, the screenshots on the internet and even in the game's opening video do not do 
 it justice. The action in-game visuals are amazing. I have an HDTV, so it looks unreal, but even 
 with the HD off, it is probably the best looking game on the 360 bar none. If you were waiting 
 for Next Gen (even though there's GRAW, Oblivion and FN3) , it has officially arrived and is surprisingly 
 39.99 only.
  Sound - Great. You can hear the grunts and groans of the players, the fans in the seats, the either 
 soft sound of a gentle serve or the high pitched crackle of a hard hit. This type of game doesn't 
 give the developers a big chance to add captivating sounds, but that doesn't mean we should dock 
 the score right. Simply put, every sound that you would hear at a real ping pong game, you'll hear 
 in Table Tennis.
  Value - Unmatched. It's an extremely fun experience with next gen quality that only cost a mere 
 39.99 instead of 59.99. If you like sports games or not is not the question. There really isn't 
 any question. If you have a 360, this is a mandatory buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard rockstar was makin a pingpong game i laughed my ass off and thought no way is 
 anyone gonna buy that. Well I caved in to the hype and bought it and it is well worth the 40 bucks. 
 The gameplay is really fast and intense. Its really awesome when tou get 50+ rallies. The controls 
 are fairly easy to pick up but really dificult to master. zthe graphics are really good. The sound 
 is pretty good too but nothin special. This game is just so simple and addictive. Sure there is 
 no career mode but when you finish the tournaments you can always play online. Which is completely 
 lag free. Online is even better then the single player. Overall it is a really simple yet fun game. 
 Id highly reccomend picking this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanwolves999
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 25, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  You know, I am actually quite surprised about the review that Table Tennis has gotten so far from 
 various sites. It seems that everyone agrees that the gameplay is rock solid, but yet people complain 
 that the game is not deep enough. That is a valid complaint, but the truth is that this game is 
 $40. That has to be remembered. It is not a deep game, but the gameplay is so incredibly immersing 
 and fun that it is really hard to put down. It is also a really great party game. Just have everyone 
 come over and set up a tournament. It is really intense and it is just plain old fun when people 
 are volleying 80 times and going into focus to keep the volley going. Do yourself a favor and pick 
 this game up. It's cheap, the gameplay is perfect, and it is pure fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr8_Mighty_Poo
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Table Tennis? Who would have guessed it. Not me and certainly not anyone else, except for Rockstar. 
 Simply put this game is utterly amazing. The visuals, the sound effects, and the physics are dead 
 on. The character models are some of the or possibly even the best to date on a console. Rockstar 
 kept it clean and didnt clutter the menus with half baked modes and pointless minigames. Although 
 I personally would have liked a create-a-character mode this game is, mindblowing. Your player 
 even begins to sweat, how sweet is that! A total buy and at $39.99 who can beat that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 25, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  Rockstar Games Prsents Table Tennis. Oh come on Rockstar couldn't you have just made DUB Edition 
 as your 360 premiere. Or even create a whole new sereis. Like you did. But Rockstar had to go out 
 and make a ping-pong game. Why? Why? Why? Rockstar can go ahead and do great with these graphics 
 maybe Grand Theft Auto will no longer look like an old PlayStation game. Let's look at the best 
 graphics Rockstar has had!
  1. Table Tennis
  2. DUB Midnight Club 3
  Now let's head to my review.
  
  Gameplay: Table Tennis' gameplay lacks a few things like no 
 carrer mode. And no abilty to create a player. If there was a carrer mode you could travel the 
 world playing against people kinda like Forrest Gump did. The unlockable characters are pretty 
 nice. While the online play is okay too. The gameplay overall does lack a few things but is pretty 
 good overall!
  
  Graphics: These graphics are probaly some of the best on the 360! And by Rockstar! WOW! 
  
 
  Sound: Music is nice. You have to listen closely to hear some voices at least on my TV.
  
  Value: Game is good espically for Rockstar! The graphics are the main thing this game is gonna 
 get high scores for! /The gameplay is pretty good too!
  
  Tilt: Nice I was hoping for more! Like the abilty to create a player. And no carrer mode is probaly 
 one thing that kept this game away from a Editor's Choice here on Gamespot. 
  OVerall Verdict: A rent really if you like it go buy it! 
  Overall Score: 8.6
  Box Art: 6.7 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pentium4dude
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 25, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best reasons as to why I bought my XBOX 360. This game is really addicting. 
 You can go and play this game for hours and not get bored. The learning time is fairly short but 
 the time that it will take to master will be much longer. Even though you only start off with three 
 or so players to play with, it really helps make the game a game that you have to play to win. 
 The graphics on this game make this game a high 8.5 rating as well. The players begin to sweat 
 as the match goes on, as well as you have the ability to see your player when the camera zooms 
 in when you are hitting a tough shot. The gameplay is great and when the graphics and gameplay 
 are combined together, this game becomes one of the best, most fun games for the XBOX 360. I do 
 not regret buying this game and I recommend that every XBOX 360 owner purchase this game as soon 
 as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 25, 2006 6:21 am PT
Review:  How could a game that was made fun of by so many people be so good? Probably because the group 
 that made it was Rockstar and they are much better known for games where you shoot people and not 
 where you hit a little white ball. That being said, this is one sick game!
  
  Graphics: The character models look STELLAR! I always catch myself looking at the expressions on 
 the players faces and how their clothes move and ripple with ever motion they make. It's very impressive. 
 The physics are also very well done in this game.
  
  Gameplay: The game plays fast and smooth. It's very easy to get sucked into the game especially 
 when in a long rally. I haven't been able to hook up to Live yet because my internet was wigging 
 out yesterday but from what I hear, the game plays very solid on that as well.
  
  Audio: The game sounds perfect! The crowd gets going when you start a good rally and the regular 
 ping pong noises are spot on! The added grunts of effort are also well done.
  
  Overall I really have enjoyed this game so far. I hope to be able to get onto Live so I can see 
 how much more work I need to take out some of the competition online. Ping pong is back baby! And 
 it's sweet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagapo
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I'lll be rather short for this game. You should rent this game if you are having doubts for bying 
 it. and if you did, you will want to buy it :)
  
  Although the concept is very simpel, the ingame dept is pretty big. The graphics are very good 
 and the gameplay is so addictive...
  The firts hour you play this be will be strange, because ya need to get used to the controlsystem. 
 Once you do, it's all fun and for the price you pay for this game, you shouldn't have any doubts 
 whatso ever.
  
  Buy it, try it and love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpozan
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar presents Table Tennis is unbelievable. Great graphics, intuitive gamplay, and it's worse 
 than drugs. I've been playing this game for hours already. At $39.99 it's a must buy. It takes 
 some time to get a hang of, but after an hour of playing you'll be good enough to take on the medium 
 difficulty. The graphics are a combination of NBA 2K6 sweat and shirt movement with EA facial graphics 
 (aka the graphics are amazing) . Surprisingly, the game shares few similarities to the Top Spin 
 and Virtua Tennis series. You can use either the right analog or the buttons to hit your shots 
 making it feel very realistic. Buy it. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ram4x4Marc
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 24, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I hear reviews that are afraid to say that this game is great because of lack of violence that 
 Rockstar is known for. If you've played Virtua Tennis before, this is exact replica of it, which 
 is a good thing. Game is awesome! So much fun, great graphics, gameplay is perfect. I'm a diehard 
 sports fan, having to make a decision to buy this game was tough, but once ya play and have your 
 first volley of over 50 hits, you'll be beggin' for more... online play is lag-free.... no slowdowns... no 
 career mode? Who cares, ya don't need it.... if ya don't have x-box live, you might get bored, but 
 as long as you have online, you'll never get sick of it... trust me... just get it, don't wait to 
 buy it or you'll be kickin' yourself for doubtin' this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twyst_
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  No career mode, but honestly I would have hated the career mode anyway. This game seems meant to 
 be played online and for that it is amazing.. Im a total addict. Game controls are very polished 
 and it just "feels right"
  
  Couldnt give it a super crazy sound score because theres just not much going on, but streaming 
 music from the pc and turning off all the audio except the sound effects is the way to go IMO
 
  
  graphics are solid, not jaw dropping, but very clean.
  
  Value on this game is great at $40, would have given it a 10 with a career mode even though I wouldnt 
 have played it, still should have one though
  
  gameplay and tilt earn perfect scores! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shankraft
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  Got this game as soon as it hit the store shelves. One of the first things you notice is the top 
 quality graphics - high polygon player models, facial expressions including raised eyebrows, crisp 
 colors, etc.
  
  Very good camera work and so far I haven't noticed any glitches in this area.
  
  A comprehensive 
 training mode is included which makes it great for those not used to racquet games.
  
  Game play is excellent. I was able to execute advanced shots without having to struggle with the 
 buttons.
  
  If you're experienced with this type of game, then you'll find it's easy to beat the 5 initially-unlocked 
 players rather easily. As other players get unlocked (playing tournaments) , you'll find the going 
 gets tougher.
  
  The designers have struck the right balance of difficulty and this game is turning out to be very, 
 very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawanwahi
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  To start with only thing I can say is WOW!
  
  I have been waiting for this game for quite some time now and believe me it was worth the wait.
 
  
  It is just too good of a game, even after being so simple. But then, you really dont neet a career 
 mode in this game. The low price makes it even more attractive to have.
  
  Online play or offline, both are very well taken care of. Yeah, there are some occasional glitches 
 where you dont see the opponent moving their arm and the ball still comes flying back at you. This 
 is why I am not going to give this game a perfect 10. Its cutting close though.
  
  Graphics are amazing, even on my non HD TV. Sound is superb. Crowd starts cheering up as the intensity 
 grows. Awesome!
  
  If someone says they find the controls too hard, they really not makin an effort. For any sports 
 game, it takes time to get used to the controls and this one I have played only for about 2-3 hours 
 and trust me it did not take me that long to get used to the controls.
  
  To sum it up, if you really like Table Tennis, you cant go without having this in your collection. 
 And if you dont know much of Table Tennis, still get this game coz its just too much fun and it 
 actually might make you interested in the sport.
  
  Have a blast ppl! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coderedfilm
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 24, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  Rockstar has never let me down. Even with state of emergence, witch I loved for the xbox. And they 
 dont let me down again. They seem to have a nack for finding the oddest concepts and making them 
 work. Im my opinion, this game has just as much value, and plays just as well as fight night round 
 3, but is 20 bucks cheaper. In fact, im going to go out on a linb here and say, its even a better 
 looking game. I will admit, i didnt expect to get much playing time out of the game, considering 
 it was a "ping-pong" game, but you find yourself highly addicted, and wanting more. even better 
 when your playing with a friend, or online. rockstar again, never fails to surprise me with innovative 
 ideas. I can only hope that GTA IV will look half as good as this. Rockstar, thanks for bucking 
 the $60 system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gds2480
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice about this game are the animations on the cloth and the physics 
 of the ball which are by far some of the best I have seen nothing like returning a curving slam 
 with some wicked top spin. 
  
  They have a nice training course so the learning curve is not as high as I had thought, and this 
 training isn't as long as Top Spin's training course. I know they are two different sports. Oh 
 and yes table tennis is a sport if car racing is one then table tennis would with out a doubt be 
 one.
  
  I was fairly put off by the first few people I faced they were really to easy to beat, but when 
 you get into the upper ranks they become rather hard and make you work for every shot and every 
 point. I would say learn the foucs shot and use it well because some of those guys slam every single 
 shot right back at you.
  
  The environments are good and there are a few times when the lighting changes to make the action 
 feel faster and more intense, but you really have to have some long rallies for that to happen 
 and I think if you are having long rallys then you aren't playing the game right. Thats just my 
 thoughts on that. 
  
  Try the game out rent it or buy it for the cheapest price you will see on a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newfg311
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 24, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since the day I saw the video for it on Gamespot, and let me 
 say this, it did not dissapoint! The gameplay is easy to get a handle on, especially if you do 
 the training mode. The graphics (including the crowd, arenas and characters) are beautiful. You 
 know the graphics are good when you can actually see sweat stains in the person's shirt and at 
 the same time you can almost feel their intensity by just looking at the character's facial expressions. 
 If you get into a long rally the music starts to play faster and the crowd really gets into the 
 match, which adds to the fun and intensity of this game. I am now hooked on Table Tennis, and if 
 you rent/buy it, you will be too. This game is just plain fun and can be enjoyed by anyone, fans 
 of table tennis or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirRocky
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  Everyone was kind of worried when Rockstar announced it would be making a Ping Pong game instead 
 of the next great action/violent game. People even speculated as to what hidden mature modes would 
 be scattered throughout the game.
  
  But Rockstar kept true to its goal and did exactly what it set out to do. They designed an awesome 
 simulation that captures the feel and spirit of Ping Pong.
  
  The short of it is, the game is fun to play. It's intense, it's easy to pick up and at the same 
 time, its difficult.
  
  The controls for the game are simple..... Left stick to move your player, left stick aims the shot. 
 Right stick or the face buttons for spin type, LB for soft shot, RB for focus shot. Overall they 
 take a little getting used to, but they handle pretty well. 
  
  Character movement is mediocre. It's easy to accidentally move when you didn't mean to or to not 
 move when you were trying to. Many shots were missed because of this. It could be partially inexperience.... 
 or more likely it is just an area of the game that needs improvement.
  
  Overall it didn't take long to pick up the game and start playing. After running through the training 
 mode, I was able to hold my own against the amateur opponents and finish the first tournament. 
 
  
  XBL play is well done. In keeping with the theme, it's simple and to the point. In the 5 or 6 games 
 I played online, I only experienced lag once or twice (though it was enough to throw me off and 
 lose a point) . Its nice that they tell you how many (and who) people are spectating your match. 
 It gives a real feel of competition with an audience.
  
  It would be nice to see some more in depth features to the game. A character creator or a career 
 mode of sorts would be nice. Instead you get a series of disconnected games that aside from tournament 
 play, have no connection to one another. The tournament mode is nice and helps give a sense of 
 purpose, but even that isn't much.
  
  The graphics are on par with other 360 titles. Not quite as good as GRAW or Fight Night, but not 
 bad either. They convey the game well and you can see the players sweat and be challenged physically 
 through their animations and changes in their appearance over time.
  
  The sound is well.... ping pong. What really stands out however with the sound, is the voice from 
 the audience and from the players. They are both used to help convey the intensity of the game 
 and really put you in your player's shoes.
  
  For $40, the game is well worth it. It's easy to pickup, it's got good graphics and good sound. 
 It's alot of fun to play (especially with friends) and it gets very intense when you start getting 
 very long rallies going. Running back and forth across the table attempting to save the return 
 and just barely making it, only to have to dart back the other way gets crazy and exciting. 
  
  If you are looking for a good party game, this is definitly a nice way to go. It isn't an immediate 
 pick up and play, but its simple enough that anyone could have fun with it without much effort. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekid23
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  I bought this game yesterday and played for about an hour. I realy enjoyed learning the game in 
 the single player, but I am not a single player fan in many games. I like competition, that is 
 why I wanted this game. I dont care about creating players and seasons and long franchises. Means 
 nothing to me. I think sports games have been pretty bad recently, and I needed somehting to hold 
 me over until a good one finds its way. 
  I met up with a friend on Live and we went at a best of 5 series. He hadnt played for one second 
 and I had been practicing, I explained the game to him and we began. I beat him 11-3 in the first. 
 Than he smoked me in the next 2 sets 11-4. The fourth game began and I could already tell how addicting 
 this game will be. We were both much better tahn when the best of 5 began, long rallies followed. 
 I won the fourth set 11-8 to bring it to a tie. The fifth set was a see-saw bettle of momentum, 
 eventually he won 11-7. The whole time I was having a blast, every point was a war. 
  This is what games are about to me, truly addicting and fun. Competing against another person. 
 Its $40 bucks. If you have Live and you like competition (agaisnt real people) this is your game. 
 I can't wait to get back tonite and redeem myelf.
  Dont look for any extras here. This is just a way to compete and have fun. Aparty game in a way. 
 But dont look for Mario to be throwing frisbees to a dog or anything, this is real fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lauryn2000
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  Table Tennis what was Rockstar thinking?? SLEEPER HIT!!!!
  
  They were thinking revolutionary, fun and Ping Pong 
  all wrapped up into one. If you can play 
 Top Spin you
  can play Table Tennis. You might even find this game
  a little more competitive than your same ole tennis.
  
  Your character's have their strength 
 and weaknesses
  which can play to your advantage depending on which
  player you have to go up against.
  
  You get to go thru the training session which I 
  highly 
 recommend. Buttons and analog stick
  are very simple, quick memory of the buttons you
  will be good to go. Learn the spins, back swings
  and how to charge the table, etc. Makes the learning
 
  curve a little faster to master than trying to go right
  ahead and start playing a match.
  
  Graphics-EXCELLENT-Rockstar did a wondeful job
  with the players expression after they win 
 or lose. Body
  language after they miss a point and frustration at a 
  point they should have had.
  
  Gameplay-Depending on how fast you master the controls.
  If 
 you can go keep up and go back and forth with your opponent,
  the play becomes intense. Think you got what it takes? Well than,
  the "Techno-Music" gets louder 
 and faster, the crowd is pumped
  up and your pumped up just as well.
  
  Excellent Game at a Bargain Price!!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: garron
Rating: 10
Date: May 24, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Table Tennis is one of the best sports games ever made, because it sticks to a phenomenal game 
 mechanic, and explores it completely. Almost no sports games get this right anymore: the swing 
 of a bad cracking a baseball, a golf club swooshing through the air, a basketball pinging on glossy 
 wood. Table Tennis captures the intensity of a manic sport with controls that are continually surprising 
 and comprehensive. The graphics (lighting, animation, textures, everything) and sound serve the 
 minimal settings well, and add greatly to the feeling of seamless participation in the activity 
 onscreen. This is the first 360 game to make me happy that I own the console.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  If I am to tell the truth, when I first heard back in December that Rockstar was going to make 
 a ping pong game, I had my doubts. Sure, they have mastered the Free Roam/Action/Fighting/Racing 
 game two-fold, but can they make a sports game that also destroys anyone's expectations? The answer 
 is simple: Hell yeah they can. This game has so many many assets beyond the basic "Graphics, Gameplay 
 ect." that it is hard to believe this is Rockstar's first edition in the genre. This game is quite 
 possibly the best-made sports game ever when it comes down to the actual comparison of this replica 
 to the real thing. The movement of the players and the sounds of the environment make it look and 
 seem real. You will see your players sweat come down their face, you will see their arm pitts develop 
 condensation under them after a certain period of time, and you will actually see their clothes 
 move in specific direction when the player moves his body and even more, their clothes actually 
 have a fabric design that makes them look like real clothes. Enough about that though, here's what 
 Gamepsot wants me to tell you:
  Gameplay - Excellent. No (yes I said no) glitches makes it Superb from the beginning and then they 
 wow you some more. You have options of Topspin, Backspin, Leftspin and Rightspin. Also, in addition 
 to that, you simultaneously have direction control with the Left Stick. That means if you press 
 Topspin, you can also aim the position of the ball towards the end of your opponents side of the 
 table. Along with those, you have what is called the charge ability, which means you can hold Topspin 
 in and the longer you hold it in before the ball gets to you, you can put more power on it for 
 your return. You also can tell which type of spin your opponents are putting on the ball by the 
 clever color coordination feature on the ball. There's much, much more, but this isn't a game guide 
 so....
  Graphics - Truly, the screenshots on the internet and even in the game's opening video do not do 
 it justice. The action in-game visuals are amazing. I have an HDTV, so it looks unreal, but even 
 with the HD off, it is probably the best looking game on the 360 bar none. If you were waiting 
 for Next Gen (even though there's GRAW, Oblivion and FN3) , it has officially arrived and is surprisingly 
 39.99 only.
  Sound - Great. You can hear the grunts and groans of the players, the fans in the seats, the either 
 soft sound of a gentle serve or the high pitched crackle of a hard hit. This type of game doesn't 
 give the developers a big chance to add captivating sounds, but that doesn't mean we should dock 
 the score right. Simply put, every sound that you would hear at a real ping pong game, you'll hear 
 in Table Tennis.
  Value - Unmatched. It's an extremely fun experience with next gen quality that only cost a mere 
 39.99 instead of 59.99. If you like sports games or not is not the question. There really isn't 
 any question. If you have a 360, this is a mandatory buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: island_monster
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 23, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I played this game against my wife. I played against a friend. I played on Live. This is one visceral 
 experience. The graphics are everything the screen shots depicted them to be. The sound is consistently 
 appropriate. I like the way a drawn-out volley brings a soundtrack of its own into the game. That 
 was a good call. It elevates the present drama and helps keep you in a zone.
  
  I went through the training until I had perfect scores on all of the skill tests. That's a move 
 I would recommend to anybody. Go ahead and play a few games first, but don't go too long without 
 the training. It really shows you what you can do with your paddle. Fortunately the focus defaults 
 to automatic because holding the right bumper and charging a shot and positioning that same shot 
 while applying the appropriate spin can be a wrist-numbing affair.
  
  When you learn to back off the table because your weak-ass return left you open for a smash and 
 you successfully return said smash you feel the elation that would result in the real game. Moving 
 to the side to reach down a lift the ball back into play after you opponent sends a shot practically 
 sideways off the table offers a feeling of accomplishment. 
  
  After playing so much of this game lately, I'm ready to go out for a new table to set up in my 
 garage. Man, I love this game! It's great to be able to play at a level above what I'd be capable 
 of in real life... and I'm not too bad... it's just really enjoyable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I was thinking it would be ok. It has turned me around and I have to say after learning the controls 
 and playing it online... this game is pretty good. The visuals are not bad... Not NEXT-GEN realistic... but 
 clean and clear. The gameplay controls are good. If you have played a tennis game (i. e. TOP SPIN) 
 you will catch on to this game pretty quick. The game is worth $40 in my opinion and a good change 
 from the normal. It is fast paced and very fun online. The achievements are fair and there are 
 plenty of them. The real PLUS to this game is the GAMER PICTURES that you can win and get downloaded 
 to your hard drive instantly. The ROCKSTAR LOGO, PING PONG BALL, and TENNIS PADDLES are available 
 right from the get go. It is a good direction to get GAMER PICTURES and hopefully other companies 
 will go this way and make the game more worth-while. The more you play the more you are available 
 to unlock... and like I said before... there are 29 achievements..... this game is a good multiplatyer 
 game and not a bad investment! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Table Tennis today on the way home from work. I was not expecting the best game ever 
 but after playing it for 3hours i am happy with this "bargin" purchase! 
  The controls are rock solid, and responsive. The Ai is predictable, but can give you a challange 
 the first time through in a match. 
  The graphics are nice, and flow very well. 
  For 40.00 this is a must pick up for any 360 owner who is looking for a fun, fast paced game. 
 
  Glad to see something new from Rockstar, and a new type of game in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 23, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Being as bored as I was, I decided to make a trip down to EB Games today and pick up Table Tennis. 
 I figure hey, it's only $39.99 right? Even if it's pretty "bleh", at least its cheaper than $60. 
 After playing this game for a few painstakingly long hours, which I only did for you guys/gals 
 benefit :) , it's safe to say that Rockstar needs to just come out and say, "We can't make decent 
 A. I. We just can't." Don't get me wrong, the game has its high points. In fact, let's just jump 
 right to my Game Breakdown without further delay.
  
  Graphics: Good. The players will work up a sweat as the match progresses. Arenas look decent enough. 
 Overall, everything is crisp. There's not much to say because this one is pretty straightforward. 
 Clothes flow with characters movements well. That's really all you see when you play graphically. 
 
  
  Control: Oh man is this going to be a mixed bag. Personally, I wanted a pick-up-and-play scheme. 
 Just grab the controller and go at it. But for a game that theoretically targets the "casual gamer" 
 crowd, easy to play this one is NOT. Even playing the game now, I struggle with trying to put spin 
 on the ball while my character moves around like a drunken chimp. There are many, MANY times in 
 this game when I would mean to strike the ball, but instead wind up making my character stumble. 
 Let me explain, because I'm sure there are alot of people out there who are very curious as to 
 how the control setup for a game like this could possibly be confusing. Okay, the left thumbstick 
 moves your character right, left, forward, and back. The RIGHT thumbstick controls spin. Sound 
 easy? Well.. not so fast. To make a "focus shot" (wtf are power shots doing in a table tennis game?? 
 Ever since EA made the very first Gamebreakers, every developer and their mother have been ripping 
 it off. STOP!) , you'll need to move the right stick in conjunction with holding down the right 
 bumper. Sound easy? Try picturing it. Moving the left stick, adjusting spin with the right stick, 
 and holding the bumper at the same time, all while in the midst of lightning fast gameplay. Being 
 honest, after about an hour's worth of play, my right wrist was cramping up. Of course, if you're 
 apparently REALLY good, the different kinds of spin are mapped to the X, A, B, and Y buttons. WHAT?? 
 WHY??? You STILL have to place the shot too.. and that's what really sucks. The left thumbstick 
 directs the ball. It also moves your character. See where this is going? You can only direct where 
 you want the ball to go AFTER you have built up your spin and before the ball actually gets to 
 you. If the A. I. puts top spin on the ball, you're screwed and that's it. That, or you'll pop it 
 up for a ridiculously easy score for the computer. All in all, the control setup reeks BAD.
  
  Sound: "Ping.... Ping.... Ping...".. you get the idea. There's not much going on in this one. 
 My favorite part was how the crowd will chant for your character when its match point in the final 
 set. Pretty cool I have to say. Characters mumble too much to actually hear what they're saying, 
 so I'm not sure about the voiceovers.
  
  Entertainment/Gameplay: I was really into this one.... for about half an hour. Then the repitition 
 killed it. If you have a bunch of friends to play with, and can handle the absolutely horrid controls, 
 you could have a party game here. There is Xbox Live competition as well if that interests you. 
 The most annoying thing about this game is definitly the cheap-as-heck A. I. Most matches, they 
 practically hand you the first set (assuming you have the default settings and are playing best 
 of three. Also, the character Liu Ping is absurdly good 100% of the time.. I guess that's why he's 
 on the cover of the instruction book...) Then, look out. Just like fighting games do when you finally 
 get your opponents life low and they haven't touched you the entire match, the stupid gorilla on 
 the other side of the table turns into Pete Sampras just like that. You're up 9 to nothing one 
 second, and the next, you lose 11-9. I can not stress enough the cheapness of the A. I. in this 
 game. There were times when I was playing that every time I returned the ball to their side of 
 the court, it "popped up", and they spiked it for an easy point. Not to mention some of the returns 
 the A. I. manages are nothing short of laughable. There were times when I was literally laughing 
 out loud at the A. I.'s ability to return spikes. But you will never return theirs. This game is 
 frustration in a box no doubt. Play with friends, but don't play alone. Which, unfortunately, you 
 will have to do if you want to unlock more than the THREE people that are available when you turn 
 the game on. 
  
  I was really up for something different and once again Rockstar proved that they can mess up anything, 
 even something as fundamental as Table Tennis. I just knew, back when I first heard they were going 
 to make the game, it was going to suck. But as time went on, I decided maybe I was being too judgemental 
 too early and I should give them a chance. I say here and now, with full confidence, that I will 
 never again purchase a Rockstar product. Control and ridiculously unbalanced A. I. are the double-faults 
 of this game. If you're really bored, and have played everything else, I could recommend this for 
 a rental if you're looking for multiplayer. For a purchase, well, even at $40 you're getting ripped. 
 I thought Rumble Roses was the biggest stinker so far for 360. But I may have been proven wrong 
 right here with Table Tennis. This game scores decent for graphics and sound. That is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegasr
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 23, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Simple and fun. What else could you ask for when you spend only $39 for a 360 game. The sound is 
 right one the money. The graphics are very, very good, especially on a HDTV. Game play is basic 
 and simple, which makes playing it a blast. This is a great game to have in your XBOX 360 collection. 
 Playing on XBOX Live is a blast as well. Zero lag and getting a game going is very quick. Rockstar 
 made a fun simple game versus all the shoot em up and killing game. Table Tennis ( Ping Pong) is 
 a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I know it just came out today... but I've played enough of it to understand how AWESOME it 
 is. You guys know tennis games like Mario Tennis and Top Spin? It's similar in it's tennis aspect, 
 but now it's up close and personal! More emphasis is put on HOW you do the shots and not where 
 you hit it (because.... it's on a table) . You can do 4 different types of hits (top, right, left, 
 and back spin) , but you can also do a focus shot (a more effective, bullet-time type shot) . Doing 
 so will deplete your focus meter (which you can also use to go into full focus, increasing all 
 of your skills) . There are a good roster of characters from all around the world, each playing 
 VERY differently. The character models and animations are AMAZING!! Every hair, fiber of clothing, 
 bead of sweat, detail, all visible in beautiful HD!! The only reason that it's a 9, is that theres 
 really nothing else to look at, giving a somewhat empty atmosphere. The gameplay is a great blend 
 of fast paced arcadey action, with a good touch of realism. The single-player aspect isn't quite 
 as fleshed-out as I had hoped, so thats where the GENIUS multiplayer mode comes in. Whether it's 
 on the same TV, or on Xbox live... this is the greatest 2-player multiplayer experience so far 
 on the 360. It's intense, up-close, and personal. Every precise hit counts, and the pressure is 
 on! My friend and I played this game for HOURS! The game even sports a solid soundtrack (which 
 is underused) , good sound effects, and even a decent announcer. Overall, this is a great game! 
 Whether you're a sports fan, a ROCKSTAR games fan, or just a fan of great, addictive games, you'll 
 find this to be a very, very worthwhile experience for only $40 brand new!!! So what are you guys 
 waiting for? GO PLAY SOME TABLE TENNIS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realdealphil
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  I tested this game at the NCTTA Finals held at Texas Wesleyan College in Fort Worth, Texas.
  The game's graphics looked finished enough, and so crystal and detailed that you could see sweat 
 dripping off the players as the match progressed. When a game went to deuce, I started to notice 
 damp underarm stains on my player. As gross as it may be, this shows the attention to detail that 
 Rockstar put into this game.
  Enough for graphics.
  I only got to play the game for about an hour in total, but it was enough to know how solid the 
 game will be once it is released on May 23. It plays similar to Top Spin, except more focus is 
 input onto watching your opponent return the ball to dictate what spin you need to put on the ball 
 to counter and return it without popping it off the table, or up for your opponent to slam it back 
 on you.
  Not only do the X, B, Y, and A buttons put spin on the ball, you can use the right joystick for 
 a more precise kind of spin, whereas instead of simply top, bottom or side, you can do bottom-left 
 side spin, top-right side spin, so on and so forth.
  One minute detail that had a major impact on me was the "warning" system. If you try to place a 
 ball on the back corner and the computer senses that it will go out, your controller vibrates a 
 quick warning and, if you're fast enough, you can correct the placement before the ball goes sailing 
 off the table.
  The controls are simple to learn, but difficult to master. You have to know what spin is coming 
 at you or it could mean the loss of a point, i. e. if your opponent serves top spin and you try 
 to return with a back spin, it will pop the ball up, inviting your opponent to blast you with a 
 hard top spin shot.
  Each character has their strengths and weaknesses, as well as style of play (pen hold, shake hand) . 
 Though the characters are modeled after real players, no names were actually used.
  Licensed products do make an appearance in barriers and tables, which is a definite pro for the 
 realism side of the game, which in itself is what this title is all about.
  I not only played the game, but I watched as some of the top table tennis players in the entire 
 nation played the game, and they had nothing but good things to say about it (even though they 
 were speaking a different language, but the joy they experienced was visual, as they had to literally 
 be pulled from the controllers) .
  Do not listen to all those ignorant enough to blast the game before they play it themselves. This 
 title is addicting and well-made, and, in my opinion, is fully capable of sitting in the same collection 
 as your other big-named sports titles. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
