-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rock Band 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/rockband2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 80-plus songs on disc.
 Ability to import songs (for a $5 fee) from Rock Band.
 Online World Tour mode.
 Great gameplay is a blast alone or with friends.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very few significant changes since the first game.
 Some songs aren't much fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.2, 59 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 2,274 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MTV Games
Developer: Harmonix Music
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Sep 14, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though Rock Band 2 plays it safe with only minor improvements and additions, it still rocks. 
 "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Rock Band 2 Review for 
 Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, 
 cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Rock Band returns for another tour in this video review with Aaron Thomas.       Watch It   Watch 
 HD 520p                 The Good            80-plus songs on disc  &nbsp;      Ability to import 
 songs (for a $5 fee) from Rock Band  &nbsp;      Online World Tour mode  &nbsp;      Great gameplay 
 is a blast alone or with friends.                The Bad            Very few significant changes 
 since the first game  &nbsp;      Some songs aren't much fun.                      After The Fact: 
  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Free Songs    Posted: Dec 19, 2008 
 11:07 am PT      Almost two months after Rock Band 2 arrived in stores, Harmonix released the promised 
 20 free songs online. The "emerging artist lineup" can be downloaded by redeeming the code that 
 shipped with all new copies of Rock Band 2. A complete list of songs can be found  here . &nbsp; 
               

  The first Rock Band revolutionized the way music games were played; however, its sequel is more 
 of an evolutionary step forward. A huge song list and the ability to play World Tour mode online 
 are the biggest attractions -- very little else has changed. It's more of the same, but it's still 
 awesome.  

  The gameplay you've come to know and love from the first game is intact in Rock Band 2. You can 
 sing, play drums, guitar, or bass alone, or get three friends together and jam as a band. There 
 are a few drum solos here and there (scored in the same way as guitar solos) and spoken-word parts 
 seem to be more forgiving, but those are the only noticeable differences in the gameplay. RB2 is 
 compatible with the instruments from the first game as well as the Guitar Hero 2 &amp; 3 controllers. 
 If you're in the market for new equipment, Harmonix has released a new guitar and drum kit that 
 are now available as individual purchases. For more information on the new hardware, visit our 
  reviews blog  for hands-on impressions.  

           You can now play World Tour online as well as offline. Niiice.      

  Rock Band was 
 a great party game, but even on the lowest difficulty setting its learning curve could be daunting 
 for some. Nothing would bring a jam session to a screeching halt like failing a song repeatedly 
 because someone couldn't play the bass part on easy. That's no longer a problem thanks to the no-fail 
 setting, which will let you continue rocking even if your band is so awful it makes Paris Hilton 
 seem like a talented musician. Another tool designed to help newcomers (or experienced yet lousy) 
 drummers is the drum trainer. This presents you with a series of progressively more complex beats 
 that you'll need to be able to play to get through the game. It's a neat idea, but once you've 
 gotten the basics down you're probably better off practicing actual songs in Practice mode than 
 spending time with the drum trainer. The fill trainer, however, is more valuable. It teaches you 
 a number of fills to use during gameplay. Not only will this spice up your fills so they'll sound 
 good, but it will also help your bandmates stay with the beat because you're playing something 
 that makes musical sense -- not just banging away like some sort of rhythmically challenged kid playing 
 with pots and pans.  

  The Rock Band 2 disc includes more than 80 songs encompassing a wide variety of bands and styles. 
 The full track list is available  here . Pearl Jam, The Who, AC/DC, Bob Dylan, Nirvana, Red Hot 
 Chili Peppers, Metallica, and Smashing Pumpkins are among the game's better-known artists, but 
 there are plenty of newer acts, such as Avenged Sevenfold, Interpol, Rise Against, and Paramore. 
 The tracklist is generally quite good, but it's not always fun. The focus on niche artists and 
 lesser-known cuts from popular artists will present a challenge for most singers since it's unlikely 
 they'll know many of the tunes right off. How many folks can even name a tune other than "Whip 
 It" from Devo? Yet, we get "Uncontrollable Urge" instead. Some songs, such as "Tangled up in Blue," 
 "Hungry Like the Wolf," and "Bad Reputation" are simply too long to be enjoyable more than a few 
 times. The ability to play shortened versions as you can in the SingStar karaoke games would have 
 been welcome.  

           Like Rock Band? You'll like Rock Band 2.      

  The game comes with a code that will let you download 20 bonus songs, but at the time of this review 
 the specific songs and their release date are unknown. One thoughtful feature is that you can rip 
 55 of the 58 songs from the first Rock Band onto your hard drive and play them in Rock Band 2 after 
 paying a one-time five-dollar fee. The songs will take up a hefty 1.5 GB of space and you have 
 to rip them all at once, but after they're on your hard drive you can remove individual songs. 
 Any tunes you may have downloaded for Rock Band are also compatible with Rock Band 2. Both ripped 
 and downloaded songs are seamlessly integrated into World Tour mode. While this adds some variety 
 to the mix, it also means you're going to unlock new songs at a slower pace because of all the 
 old tunes sprinkled in.  

  Speaking of World Tour mode, a few improvements have been made, but it's not a whole heck of a 
 lot different than it was last year. Solo artists will be interested in knowing that World Tour 
 is the only mode in which you can unlock songs; there's no linear solo mode anymore. You'll start 
 by creating a rocker, a band (the random band-name generator is awesome) , and then go on tour to 
 earn cash, fans, and stars. Your created rocker is no longer tied to a specific instrument, so 
 you can switch at your leisure. Last year you were forced to bump up the difficulty if you wanted 
 to keep earning fans late in the tour; this year you can gain fans (albeit at a slow rate) even 
 if you're playing at low difficulty settings. As you tour you'll play single songs as well as custom, 
 preset, and mystery setlists. You'll earn transportation so that you can play different cities 
 and new songs as well. You can now hire different promoters and personnel, but they don't have 
 much effect on your progression. There are also challenges to tackle along the way. These score-based 
 challenges are set up by Harmonix and pit your rock skills against the rest of the world. This 
 is fun if you're amazing, but when you average 99 percent on expert over three songs and you don't 
 crack the top thousand, you realize the mode isn't for everyone. Battle of the Bands mode, which 
 lets bands go head-to-head to see who's the best, is another new score-based option that's good 
 for skilled players with a competitive streak, but less enticing for casual players.  

  The big addition to World Tour is that you can have people join your band or you can join their 
 groups and play through the mode online. This is great if you're playing with friends and you're 
 working your way through your own tour, but it's significantly less fun when playing with random 
 strangers online -- you're not earning any progress for your own band (only cash) , and you're stuck 
 playing the songs they want to play. That said, its inclusion is the most notable new feature and 
 is a welcome one at that.  

           It costs a lot of money to look this good.      

  It shouldn't be much of a surprise that Rock Band 2 looks just like the first Rock Band. Custom 
 rockers have more outfits to choose from and look truly outrageous. Their onstage moves match their 
 clothing, too. All band members are animated to the music and feature a wide range of moves that, 
 while hard to notice while you're playing, are entertaining for anyone watching you play. The grainy 
 filter that was a tad overdone in the original game is toned down here, and the graphics look better 
 for it. Needless to say, the game sounds fantastic. Not only do the original recordings add a lot 
 to the proceedings, but little touches, like the crowd singing their favorite parts of the song, 
 really make it feel as if you're playing a live set in front of an appreciative audience.  

  Rock Band 2 delivers about what you'd expect from a game released just 10 months after its predecessor. 
 That may be a little underwhelming for people who put their lives on hold for the original, but 
 you're still left with a fantastic experience that's unmatched as far as party games go.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (111 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SMAultramarine
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 5:49 am PT
Review:  Let me get this clear, I'm saying that Rock Band 2 only deserves it's 9.5 rating because of it's 
 DLC. Without the DLC it might only have scored a 9 or even an 8.
  
  The game does not break the boundaries of the music genre like its' predecessor did but it is a 
 worthy addition to the series. The introduction of a 'Battle of the Bands' mode is a good step 
 and the amount of customisation is very impressive. More could have been done with the online however, 
 4v4 like Guitar Hero World Tour would have made the game better but Battle of the Bands is a decent 
 replacement anyway.
  
  One thing I especially love about this game is the random way the songs are chosen online in ranked 
 Score Duel and Tug of War modes. It stops players from constantly picking the same song while incorporating 
 any DLC that both players have. The online band mode is very impressive too and is a welcome addition 
 that was lacking in the first Rock Band.
  
  The difficulty of the songs in this game is not as tough as Hot For Teacher and Satch Boogie in 
 GH: WT but they're secret weapon is the Rock Band Music Store. There are tons of songs for people 
 to download, suiting all tastes and difficulties. I suggest if you are an expert guitar player, 
 try Yngwie Malmsteens' Rising Force Pack. Capri Di Diablo could be one of the hardest songs ever 
 made for a music game (at least if you play guitar it is) .
  
  To sum up, this game could have done with something a bit extra after Rock Band 1, but the game's 
 real strength lies in its' DLC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ridethepiggy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 11:09 am PT
Review:  Overall Score: 7.3
  Rock Band 2 provides solid gameplay and enough replay value to keep a cheap gamer entertained until 
 the release of the next big music game. Whether playing offline or online, the companionship or 
 competiveness will keep you occupied for hours on end. The game itself has few blemishes but the 
 ones that do appear could have been easily fixed. If you're looking for the best music game out 
 on the market, this is definitely the one to grab. Months of downloaded content and absolutely 
 fun gameplay will keep you rockin' all night long. 
  
  Presentation: 8
  Rock Band 2 is all about presentation. The sound is phenomenal and the light show that goes with 
 it is fantastic. While playing a song, you'll run into different scenarios (even in quickplay) 
 such as a trippy 80s electro-rock music video to playing a grungy bar. The quality of music is 
 only measured by how loud your speakers can go and they ought to be turned to 11. Visually, the 
 game has no flaws. The menu interface is simple but attractive and there's always a message of 
 the day to greet you if you're hooked online. Everything is easy to navigate and rarely hits a 
 delay. Loads screens are minimal and when playing a set list they are hidden behind your last songs 
 score and percentages screen. The note highways (the area the notes scroll on) are a very plain 
 black, semi-transparent track that usually stays hidden until you deploy overdrive. Each instrument 
 has a different border pattern that appears and can sometimes be distracting, especially if you 
 play on a SDTV. Sometimes the background visuals can also be distracting when a laser flies past 
 or the music video you're making decides a colorful strobe effect was a good idea. Epileptic much?
 
  
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Guitar, Bass, Vocals and Drums. This is the basis for a basic rock band. Separately, they create 
 an individual career mode (even bass!) that helps you progress from a simple string-plucker to 
 the guitar virtuoso you've always wished you could be. Guitar and Bass work the same. You follow 
 the colored notes on screen, press the according fret button and strum in time with the music. 
 The difficulty levels are set up so the game eases you into all five fret keys and the ever difficult 
 two minute hammer-on solos. Star Power makes its return from the Guitar Hero series but is renamed 
 Overdrive and has the fantastic ability to overlap new portions of Overdrive gathering note sections. 
 This adds a new element in scoring for the professional plastic guitar and bass players. Bass now 
 has the ever so smooth bass groove overlay when you achieve a 5x or higher note streak (it caps 
 at 6x) yet still lacks a bass solo section. Maybe we'll see that when Primus makes a reappearance 
 for Rock Band 3?
  
  Vocals are pretty simple. If you have trouble figuring this part out you might want to revisit 
 your early childhood and remember that screaming into a microphone is the start of a singing career. 
 Once you start your first vox song you should recognize the interface. Whether you've played any 
 of the Karaoke Revolution or the American Idol games you'll see that the game is based off of that 
 engine. You sing in pitch with the corresponding singer on screen and you are graded on how well 
 you can hold your tone. Of course, this leads into the creative part where you technically are 
 allowed to change the lyrics as much as you want as long as you "sing the song" correctly. The 
 "talkies" or portions of song that are spoken (or screamed) are now open to almost any noise and 
 if you keep the correct rhythm you'll keep your multiplier. Overdrive also plays in with vocals 
 by a freeform section highlighted in yellow. Often you'll hear profanities or some sort of sexual 
 innuendo. Fun stuff. Then there are the tambourine or cowbell sections. These are open circle notes 
 that require you to tap, bang or shake the microphone in beat. Best way to get used to that? Import 
 "Don't Fear the Reaper" from RB1 and give me more cowbell.
  
  Drums tend to be the new fan favorite. Seated facing a set of four pads and a bass pedal can be 
 intimidating at first but once you get the hang of it you'll never want to get off the stool. Overdrive 
 makes its appearance as a drum-fill section which always must be "activated" with a cymbal crash. 
 Aside from that, you should know how to keep a beat and bang away!
  
  Together, these instruments make up your virtual rock band. The game menus will lead you and your 
 created band into a virtual world tour until you hit the top at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. 
 The game itself rarely misses although there are a lot of complaints about the instruments themselves. 
 Drums have gone through changes since Rock Band 1 and seem to be a solid, working set out of the 
 box. The guitar has had a complete overhaul to incorporate a light sensor to properly calibrate 
 the lag from the game engine to its output. The menu system works great and I've never run into 
 an issue with anything breaking through there. Now, for the flaws. The leaderboard system has been 
 glitched (as expected) and will more than likely never be patched with a fix. Many people miss 
 the ability to see what songs they have individual scores on without having to go through the individual 
 song leaderboard for each instrument and we lost the quickplay score listed with a complementing 
 star rating. The create-a-rocker option hasn't changed much aside from a few new pieces of clothing 
 and tattoo options. There could have been more added to the game aside from the obvious addition 
 of new songs but we didn't see many changes.
  
  Replayability: 8
  The great thing about a music game is the music. As long as a fresh assortment (and do I mean assortment!) 
 of songs keep releasing via DLC or Track Packs in stores the game has the potential to stay alive 
 for months to come. That is, if you don't get sick of the game itself. Any fan of the series (GH/RB) 
 will enjoy every bit of DLC that shows up on the marketplace. Sure, there are weeks were the song 
 choice isn't the strongest like our recent DLC of Disney songs but Harmonix and EA are doing their 
 best to appease every possible market. Harmonix did keep their promise last year to deliver over 
 a total of 500 songs by the end of December including the on disc songs, Rock Band 1 import list 
 and all DLC.
  
  With all the online and offline game options, there is definitely a mode that every person can 
 enjoy. Myself, I prefer score dueling expert guitar as much as possible and every once in a while 
 checking in on the Battle of the Bands for new content. Yes, new content for Battle of the Bands, 
 you read that right. Going to the official website, http://www. rockband. com, you can see the option 
 to send in ideas for new BotB set lists. They range from fun songs from the 70s era with a quirky 
 title on a four-song set list to an insanely difficult three-song metal battle. This coupled with 
 new DLC creates more reason to get online everyday and see what is new.
  
  Story: 3
  Rock Band 2 features a world tour mode similar to the one featured in Rock Band 1. You start in 
 a home city and try to build your fan base and reputation by winning money and stars as you beat 
 songs and set lists. They did rework the system for this and you shouldn't run into so many of 
 the same songs when doing "random set lists" which was a major complaint in the past. Of course, 
 if you don't have many songs downloaded or the RB1 track list imported into RB2 you'll realize 
 that the game is going to select from the 84 (or less depending on how many you have unlocked) 
 songs that are on disc. 
  
  The story itself is bland and very weak. You work your way from your home city until you win a 
 van, bus, airplane, etc. You hire different "associates", including your mom, to assist you in 
 gathering more fans or more money. As you start out, the fans come slowly and the money doesn't 
 flow. Once you hit a certain point (1 million fans) you'll notice that there's a sudden influx 
 of admirers of your band and they don't stop coming. There are a few fun little tidbits along the 
 way but in the end it's nothing more than filler while you play through set lists. The worst part 
 about tour mode is starting off, you'll play the same few songs over and over (see: Today by Smashing 
 Pumpkins) until you never want to hear them again.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.5
  The greatest aspect of Rock Band is the multiplayer. Whether playing over Xbox Live/PSNetwork or 
 locally on one console Rock Band delivers one of the best multiplayer performances we've seen since 
 Goldeneye. The incorporation of guitar, bass, drums and vocals and the ability to turn on "no-fail" 
 creates a full band experience that allows anyone to pick up the instrument of their choice (or 
 sometimes the band leader's choice!) and rock out like they've always dreamed.
  
  With online play, there are multiple options on how you want to play with or compete against other 
 players. Band Quickplay is possibly the most used option, this gives you the ability to pick up 
 and play as a band for a single song or a created set list. This gives everyone the freedom to 
 choose songs they prefer while taking turns or find new band mates to play in other modes. Online 
 Tour incorporates following the storyline (World Tour) and Battle of the Bands, which is constantly 
 updated as previously mentioned. Then there are the competition modes: Score Duel and Tug of War. 
 Each individual instrument has their own section in both competitive modes and there are choices 
 for a player match and ranked match. Those who play online games with Xbox Live will be very familiar 
 with those terms. Ranked matches require you to select your difficulty and it tries to match you 
 up with people of similar TrueSkill (an online ranking system) ratings. Player match is more of 
 a freeform method that trades off song selection and gives each player the ability to select their 
 difficulty level. Tug Of War returns from Rock Band 1 and again has most people confused on the 
 "complexities" it features. Basically, it is similar to score duel but you "tug" at each other's 
 scores without an actual number.
  
  Offline play is very similar to online play when it comes to the game modes aside from the fact 
 that you're not going to play online. This gives the competitive edge to those who can psyche out 
 their opponents with dance moves and other physical oddities that people tend to perform when playing 
 their instrument. All in all, it always ends up being a great game to share with friends. Of course, 
 if your friends need the influence of alcohol to break the barrier to the microphone that makes 
 everything even better.
  
  
  (Contents of this review are my work also hosted on http://dirtytruth. wordpress. com - Real Reviews 
 by Real Gamers) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitardude1243
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:31 am PT
Review:  Rock Band was an innovation of sorts in the rhythm genre dominated by Harmonix previous creation, 
 Guitar Hero. Instead of playing on only two instruments you are given the ability to play on the 
 drums and sing along as well. 
  
  Rock Band 2 is an expansion of sorts on its predecessor adding slightly slicker visuals, a greatly 
 expanded setlist, better hardware, and even more online options which now include "Battle of the 
 Bands" mode. This illustrious party game is supported by the vast amount of DLC Harmonix puts out 
 almost on a weekly basis making the songlist exceed 200+ easily (considering you buy everything) .
 
  
  If you enjoyed the first installment then you will probably definitely want to check out the second 
 one or at least pick up the much improved hardware for it, it'll just be that much more fun for 
 you and your drunk compadres! Rock on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XylonEvilPrince
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2009 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I had the first Rock Band about 6 months after it's release... and that's when i fell in love with 
 music games. Rock Band 2 is much like the first one, but with a few additions as well as a few 
 subractions. There are around 30 more songs than the first one, on disc anyways, a total of i believe 
 84 songs. Either way, it's a **** ton of songs. Traditionally you get your guitar, which is the 
 same but wireless (BOO!!! now lets waste our $ on batteries.) You get the drums, which are quieter 
 and you can add cymbals and a second kick pedal to it... YES!!! the bass drum is sooo much easier. 
 You have your microphone, which is exactly the same as in the first one. The solo tour option does 
 not exist any more... which is alright, i guess... instead you can do the world tour solo. either 
 way, if you liked the first one, then you will definetly like this one. Oh, and uh, good luck with 
 Visions on expert guitar... i beat it without using energy (star power) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkipower
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Ok, how should I start....... Rock Band 2 is absolutely the best game I have ever played. The game 
 plays almost exactly the same as the first Rock Band, many people don't like this, but I love it! 
 I loved the gameplay in the first one and I really don't mind playing it again with 85 new songs! 
 Now talking about the songs, they are all great, alot better than the first Rock Band and the harder 
 songs in the game are very challenging, Harmonix have made the game harder since the first one 
 because many people complained the first one was too easy. In Rock Band 2 you can finally play 
 World Tour mode by yourself! yay! World Tour mode is very fun and interesting, you can tour the 
 world, get roadies, managers and new vehicles. Multiplayer is similar but it's easy to actually 
 be able to play multiplayer, what I mean is that in the first one you had to sign in every person 
 and stuff, but in Rock Band 2 you can just choose characters, no signing in! Unfortunatley I did 
 not get a hold of the instruments, I just used my old Rock Band drums, mic and my Guitar Hero 3 
 guitar, I might re-review the game when I get the new instruments. As an Aussie gamer, I did not 
 want to wait until probably december this year for Rock Band 2 to come out in Australia, so I orded 
 the PAL (PAL formats of games work on Aussie consoles) version of Rock Band 2 from Europe on the 
 internet. So if you are an Aussie gamer and don't want to wait untill the end of 2009 to get Rock 
 Band 2, search "Rock Band 2 PAL" in ebay and if someones selling it... BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Truthfully, this is a pretty good game. I'm just not crazy about the too hard- too easy gameplay. 
 ( Most of the time it is hard, take note.) I enjoy playing this when there is a party or I'm sleepin' 
 over my friends house. All in all, it is a pretty good game. Bottomline: Buy it if you are a fan 
 of interactive music sort-o type games or yo just like the idea of playing fake insruments. Don't 
 buy it if you do not enjoy these qualities. Well, that's it for 2day addicted gaming fans. I will 
 write again very  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band essentially reinvented the way rhythm games were played in North America by adding in 
 drums and vocals. While Rock Band 2 doesn't nearly innovate to this level in the sequel, it is 
 undeniably a superb sequel. Not only did Harmonix maintain what made Rock Band great but it added 
 in just enough innovation to keep it fresh. The track list, the soul of the game, is also one of 
 the best to date; ever. Couple together all these factors lead only to one conclusion, yes Rock 
 Band 2 is the best rhythm game available right now and yes you indeed should buy it no matter your 
 skill level or musical preference. 
  
  Rock Band 2's single player doesn't follow any story nor does it follow a linear solo progression. 
 Rather it's an open band world tour mode in which you and your friends can jump in and out of at 
 your whim. You start out with nothing, no money and a customized character with the most basic 
 clothing and hair. As time goes on your unlock more cities, more songs, more setlists, and different 
 rewards. These rewards include managers who can give benefits like added money and fans. They aren't 
 game changing but hey they help a bit. You can also earn rewards like clothing to customize your 
 character. The last reward you can earn is the band upgrades which let you access more remote locations 
 as well as the songs you earn as you progress.
  
  The Band World tour is actually a lot of fun. Rather then being like Guitar Hero, Rock Band 2 uses 
 a setlist based system a lot which keeps the game going and minimizes menu shuffling. Basically 
 depending on the length of the setlist you either get a premade setlist, a random setlist, or a 
 make your own setlist. I really like this system and it's a lot more fun and keep the 'concert 
 vibe' in the game. The game also sports excellent customization which has a lot of variety though 
 I wish you could customize your body type and facial structure more. 
  
  My only complaint about the Band World tour is at times you're forced to play songs that really 
 aren't that good. This is especially true at the beginning of the game when you have to play some 
 utterly painful songs before you can get to the cream of the crop. In the end though once you get 
 past this short interval of non-rock lameness, you'll be rewarded with some of the best tracks 
 seen in any rhythm game. 
  
  Rock Band 2 sports a few other modes. For one there is the standard quickplay mode. It's perfectly 
 fine and it has all the necessary components like the ability to make a 6 song setlist. To be honest 
 though you'll be mostly going to the Band World Tour; quickplay is practically obsolete in this 
 game. The practice mode in Rock Band 2 is one of the best I've seen. You have the standard tutorials 
 and practice song options for Guitar and Vocals but for Drums they really took it to a new level. 
 Not only do you get the tutorial but you get a fill and beat trainer which works wonders for your 
 skills. It helped me a lot and it's very well implemented. Harmonix knows the drums are hard and 
 it's good to see they're willing to help.
  
  The online aspect is where Rock Band 2 is stellar as well. If your friends are away at the moment, 
 you can play the band world tour online. While the game is meant to be played with friends in real 
 life, it's pretty damn fun progressing online. This is especially helpful if your friends aren't 
 the most talented bunch. The tug of war and battle modes are also very good and simply involve 
 scoring higher then the other player. It's actually fun and with a thrown in trueskill system it's 
 good competition. The core of Rock Band though is group co-operation, not versus and Harmonix is 
 always ready to remind us of this.
  
  Harmonix keeps the online community very well updated. The weekly DLC is something to be applauded 
 and though a bit expensive at 1.99 a song it's well worth it especially if you have some songs 
 in there you enjoy. All of the songs I've downloaded have been a blast to play and almost all the 
 DLC is the master track. The battles are also a nice addition though I wish they weren't so heavy 
 on the DLC battles. In the end though Harmonix kept their promises concerning their online community 
 and I think developers should take note. That's how you take care of a customer, especially one 
 who's paid 189.99 for your game!
  
  Speaking of the price, yes Rock Band 2 is a very expensive game. The instruments are integral to 
 the game though and I do not recommend getting the game if you just want to play one instrument. 
 I have all the Special Edition instruments so I'll give a quick run down on them all.
  
  Drums: Installation was a bit difficult due to the poor instruction but I got it in about twenty 
 minutes. Once I had it connected I can say I've had no problems with it. The pads are very quiet 
 and they work well. They have a nice bounce and they just feel really nice. They look great too 
 and they seem very sturdy. The drum pedal is also great and it seem unbreakable. The drum set is 
 a lot better then then World Tour drum set in my experience. 
  
  Guitar: The guitar is not as good as the Guitar Hero ones but it's still good. It doesn't have 
 the snapping sound but it still works well and it's very effective. The solo buttons are great 
 and the frets are also pretty quiet though one of mine sounds a bit springy. I've had no problems 
 and the guitar is quite sturdy.
  
  Microphone: Nothing special, sturdy and works perfectly.
  
  All in all you're getting your 
 moneys worth in the instruments. Harmonix took the community complaints to heart and they really 
 went all out on these plastic instruments.
  
  On a graphical level, Rock Band 2 is a nice looking game. The stage effects are really nice and 
 I love the lighting in this game. The flashing lights on the screen make it feel like a real concert 
 and you're immersed into the game. The character animations are just so alive and fluid, I absolutely 
 love watching my character jump around on screen. The game also boasts some nice visual effects 
 that, while cool, are sometimes distracting.
  
  The sound is what matters here and this game sounds amazing. The music is all master tracks and 
 it's a very good soundtrack. Some songs are just not very good but I'd say a good 80% is superb. 
 It's one of the best I've seen in any rhythm game and the game also boasts a ton of well charted 
 songs.
  
  When it comes down to it, there's no reason to not get Rock Band 2. Even if you don't play with 
 a group, you can still switch between instruments for a ton of variety or you can always enjoy 
 the online mode. If you're a group oriented person, you most likely already own this game. In the 
 end you'd be hard pressed to find a rhythm game more worth your time and money.
  
  The Good: As challenging or easy as you want, great instruments, excellent support from Harmonix, 
 Band World Tour more engaging then other rhythm game solo modes, great drum trainer, superb soundtrack 
 except for...
  
  The Bad: ... some terribad songs in the beginning, a few design nitpicks.
  
  The Ugly: This 
 is a rhythm game which has raised the genre's standard. A must buy. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nebjamin1994
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 4:15 am PT
Review:  I can't be bothered to rant on about the hundreds of terrible things i could tell you about this 
 game, so i won't. IT'S PATHETIC!!!!!!!!! (compared to gh: wt)
  I will point out a few things as this review HAS to be at least 100 words long.
  1. Character 
 customisation is very shallow (only face pre-sets no adjustments.) There are a few nice instruments 
 but that's it.
  2. Hammer-ons and pull-offs are a lot harder to do than in the almighty Guitar Hero
  3. When 
 playing a song, in the background you can see yourself (just like guitar hero) but it looks very 
 blurry and the venues are rubbish.
  4. Some good songs but most are far too easy or sound rubbish and the good songs are incredibly 
 difficult on expert and can only be done with no fail on.
  5. In the world tour you play each song at least twice and it gets really boring.
  6. The challenges 
 are pointless because there are no new songs and are all in the world tour.
  
  This brings my review of this awful game to an end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: intoblivion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 9:08 am PT
Review:  Rock Band was one of the stars of last years gaming calender, combining the fun of Guitar Hero 
 with the added abillty to include more friends with more instrauments. Now after the release of 
 the good , if slightly disapointing Guitar Hero World Tour, Rock Band had to raise its game. And 
 it has even if some of the changes may seem only minor they do make this a better game than before. 
 When you first boot up the game you may not notice any dramatic diffrences from the original, but 
 delve deeper into its friendly U. I and you will be greeted with some great features. Firstly there 
 is now a online world tour for all of those budding rockstars who lack friends, or are just too 
 lazy to vist them, as with before the world tour is made up of your visting cities across the world 
 and performing songs from the setlist. There are some minor changes but most are unoticable if 
 you havn't played the original to death. Moving on from the fantastic world tour you come to a 
 brand the feature for the second installemnt the drum trainer, this is a much asked for feature 
 by the Rock Band community and is a great tool for drum experts and newbies alike. It its basically 
 made up of a never-ending note chart that can be alterd with diffrent beats at diffrent speeds, 
 the first couple of beats are good for new players learning the ropes but as your progress onto 
 harder and faster beats your abillty or lack of really starts to show. But one of the most key 
 features of a music game has to be the music, as the title suggests. Rock Band does not disappoint 
 with 80+ songs on the standerd tracklist with the options to download 20 free tracks abeit from 
 non-mainstream bands. But if you have the original Rock Band you can export all of the songs from 
 the tracklist onto Rock Band 2 for a small fee, furthermore any DLC you have purchesed for Rock 
 Band is automatically transferd onto Rock Band 2 for free. So your looking at starting possible 
 with a setlist of 150+ songs. The songs of Rock Band 2's tracklist are a good mix of old classics 
 and popular new material with bands ranging from Rush to Panic at the Disco it has songs for any 
 music lover. But the question on everyone lips is it better than Guitar Hero, well the world tour 
 has more about it but it really only comes down to which tracklist you like the most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amesomeness
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 is an amazing game. First off the songs are amazing. No matter what you are in to there 
 is something there for you. But some of the songs doesn't want us to play most of the other songs 
 instead. When i play when friends are over we keep on playing songs like Eye of the Tiger and Living 
 on a Prayer. This game has great DLC. The world tour mode is relatively the same as Rock Band 1 
 but whats there is good. Just for you to know i am a guitarist when it comes to music games. I 
 like playing guitar. When i play with the Rock band guitar i just dont like it. The strum bar is 
 way too mushy. One thing i do like about it is the weight compared to my Guitar Hero 2 guitar. 
 Once your done with World Tour by yourself there is no reason to comeback. In my opinion i do nt 
 like the rock Band 2 drums. I like the RB 1 drums better even though its louder. The mic does the 
 job. Battle of the Bands is the big new edition for me and it gives the game legs. If ur a guitarist 
 only and you often don't get people to come to your house often that like to play, Get World Tour. 
 But when i have people and i often do. Rock Band 2 is just amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilenceWolf1338
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:06 pm PT
Review:  I've play this game for a few months and I just love it! A lot of the songs on here are awesome.
 
  
  I'm glad they fix some of the problem they had on the first one. Like in this one I only have to 
 make one person and I can play any instrument I want, plus I don't have to play the same instrument 
 though out the tour.
  
  Another good thing, On the last one my girlfriend and I play together a lot on the tour but sometime 
 she would not want to play so I could not finish it. On this one I can play the tour with or without 
 anyone. 
  
  The challenge is pretty cool because you don't have to play the whole set. You can play like three 
 song and then play the rest the next day. Also if you start on expert or hard and you can beat 
 a couple songs but then the next one is too hard and fail you can just quit and go back to a different 
 difficulty to that song without playing the song you already beat.
  
  There are a lot of song and you can upload song from rock band 1 (need internet to do so) . There 
 is some song that just sucks but not as much as GH: World Tour.
  
  The character creations are pretty much the same as the last one. I can't really say much because 
 I'm not really into the cloths and stuff that they got on here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidstercool
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It's one of my favorites that I have. It's challenging at times but it's still 
 alot of fun and for people who are having trouble they can play without getting anything wrong 
 so It's a completely different experience from guitar hero and I enjoy the difference since I had 
 my days of playing guitar hero III god of rock for hours. The differences I enjoy is that you don't 
 have to fight any pesky bosses and the other difference i like is that you can save your partner 
 when they mess up. I invite friends over often and we play rockband through the night (and so this 
 is where the life saving part comes in) . My only problem with rockband is with legendary I almost 
 finished but had to leave I probably would have finished had there been less times i had to play 
 carry on wayward son but otherwise its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SympathySama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 4:05 am PT
Review:  Most of the songs are fun, while some others aren't. Being that this is only a patched version 
 of Rock Band, with a couple more songs- I feel this game needed more free dlc. Never the less, 
 the game is still fun to play! I even got my whole family to play along with me, drums and all! 
 Only things that set me off, is that when your the last band member, or the last two, your pretty 
 much screwed unless you have star power. World Tour mode brings excitement, with customizable characters 
 to instruments that we can edit. All at the same time, I wish this game had Nickelback (Yes, Nickelback, 
 don't freak on me fan boys .. and fan girls) Dlc. Why? I see an interest to singing 'Rockstar' 
 on Vocals or playing Far Away with my entire family. So I hope in the not so distant future, I 
 see a few albums pop into the dlc list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: molitorious
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:41 am PT
Review:  Great game. I have always been a guitar hero kind of guy. I didn't want to switch allegiances. 
 But it turns out.. I just like Harmonix more than any one particular game. I also didn't want a 
 drum set littering up my living room, but here I am rocking a fully plastic band in my house. Oh 
 well, it is worth it.
  
  Rock Band 2 is great. I only played the 1st one a bit. From what I can tell they kept what worked 
 and added more value to the package. Don't fix what's not broken.
  
  I can honestly say it is fun playing any position in the band. They have made it fun all around.
 
  
  Not much bad to say. I guess I wish character creation was a bit deeper, but what is there works 
 well together.
  --------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation: 8.5
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9.5
  Game play: 10
  Replay: 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyyfox1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:12 am PT
Review:  ok i gave this game an 8.5 because it has some minor problems. most of this stuff you will easily 
 overcome. i think there should be someone else picking the songs for this game because there is 
 alot of crappy songs in the retail version. luckily, there is downloadable songs so you can pick 
 the songs you like. there are some songs that i really like and enjoy playing. like eye of the 
 tiger and today is the greatest. those songs were great on the radio and great in this game. you 
 hit those notes right and there is no better feeling in the world. so this game is about the best 
 music game out now. it is better than guitar hero. it is better than anything. i have the wireless 
 fender stratocaster guitar and would like to see more songs from the guitar masters like eddie 
 van halen, jimmy page, jimmy hendrix, eric johnson and guys like that. there is not one single 
 led zeppelin song in this game. which is hard to believe. but anyway, overall it is an excellent 
 game that i recommend if you love music like i do. mtv games and harmonix did a great job of creating 
 an experience that is very enjoyable. you can play your favorite songs and it is pretty easy. once 
 you get the feel of the guitar, and memorize the 5 buttons you can play pretty much anything. and 
 the sound is incredible. great game to play every day. i really like it. well worth the money i 
 spent on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLjimbolian
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:39 am PT
Review:  Before I played Rock Band 2 and Guitar Hero World Tour, I always thought picking between the two 
 was like picking between apples and oranges. Both offer a "full band" set of guitar, bass, drums, 
 and microphone and a good number of songs can be found on both games. So they're particularly the 
 same, right?
  
  Rock Band 2 is clearly the better game than GH: WT because of a more robust song list and better 
 features than GH: WT. While Guitar Hero has exclusive heavy hitters such as Jimi Hendrix, Ozzy, 
 and Tool, Rock Band has a more diverse setlist with bands ranging from metal legends like Megadeth 
 and Testament to classic rockers like The Who and Jethro Tull to 90's favorites like Sonic Youth 
 and Presidents of the United States to the truly offbeat like GlaDOS (yes, that homicidal computer 
 from "Portal") and Jimmy Buffet. Plus, Rock Band has a much bigger amount of full albums to download 
 as opposed to Guitar Hero's measly two full albums (not including Aerosmith's fully dedicated GH 
 game) . 
  
  While you get more bang for your buck with RB2 than GH: WT with song selection, it goes beyond that, 
 especially with the instruments. Harmonix had the head start by implementing their "full band" 
 set in 2007, so they fine-tuned some of the stuff and got an overall better feeling. The drums 
 could still use a little work in detection, but it sure beats the pants off of Guitar Hero's drum 
 kit. Also, I like Rock Band's guitars better than Guitar Hero's guitars because they have more 
 of a natural feel to them.
  
  I'll give credit to the folks at Neversoft for introducing their "Music Studio" feature in Guitar 
 Hero World Tour, but I haven't tested it out yet, so I can't really comment on that. However, I 
 do enjoy the various modes RB2 has to offer especially with the online features. It's quite easy 
 to find an online buddy or two to tag along in either of your world tour run and the head-to-head 
 competitions are a blast. 
  
  One thing GH: WT has over RB2 is the character models and animations. The character animations in 
 RB2 seem a bit clunky because of the less than 60 fps as opposed to GH: WT's brisk 60 fps and the 
 characters in RB2 seem just flat out weird or goofy.
  
  One last thing I want to mention is that the product placement in RB2 isn't as so obscene as Guitar 
 Hero. While they are a few mentions of real life companies like Hot Topic and MTV (considering 
 that Rock Band was published by MTV Games) , at least we're not subjected to advertising junk like 
 KFC in GH: WT.
  
  Overall, you get a much more solid experience with Rock Band 2 than in Guitar Hero World Tour. 
 Probably it should be no surprise since the makers for the first two Guitar Hero games jumped ship 
 and made Rock Band 1 & 2, but RB2 takes the cake because of its diverse and extensive song list 
 plus much better instruments than GH: WT. I think Harmonix made a good move by not planning to release 
 a new Rock Band game in 2009 considering we're already flooded with so many music-rhythm game. 
 Thankfully we can look forward to plenty of new songs to rock out to in RB2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodweiser5
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  When the talk focuses on musicgames these days, everybody seems to instantly think about Guitar 
 Hero. And why not? GH is everywhere; Wii, X360, PS3, PS2 and even the DS and cellphones. GHWT has 
 had quite the media focus, but what about it's biggest competitor, the team at Harmonixx and Rock 
 Band 2?
  
  RB2 at first, looks a lot like RB1, but has a ton of new fixes and features. Some of my personal 
 dislikes about RB1, was that I had to create 1 character for each instrument and could only go 
 on World Tour if i had at least 2 players. Even though my wife enjoys the game like i do, it would 
 have been cooler if i could just go world tour solo.
  
  That's all taken care of now. Anyone can go on a singleplayer world tour, using the same band as 
 in multiplayer. You can even go online and find other players for your band or choose to be a substitute 
 in someone elses. And you can play all the instruments you like, with just 1 character (YES!!)
 
  
  Beside the improved World Tour mode, there are also challenges, which act like sort of a training 
 program for each instrument. Every time you complete a challenge, a new one opens up, and so forth. 
 Speaking of training, RB2 also comes with a new drumtrainer mode. Here your can practice beats 
 and freestyle sections at various difficulties and speed, to improve your drumming skills.
  
  Like RB1, everything is customizable. There are a few new additions, but not much to write 
 about (so I won't) .
  
  Another great feature is the "No fail" option. I had that on when my friends and I played RB2 during 
 New Year's eve, and it allowed us to play through everything, even if we sucked big time. (Which 
 was quite fortunate for the 3 people who had the mike, AT THE SAME TIME!) . Even if you don't use 
 the no fail option, activating overdrive for 1 player helps everyone in the band. So if your vocalist 
 accidentally swallows the microphone, you can keep the track going while he struggles to get it 
 out again.
  
  And of course, what is a good music game without THE MUSIC! All DLC from RB1 is fully compatible 
 with RB2. You can even, for a small fee and some harddrive space, copy most tracks from RB1 onto 
 your harddrive, and play it in RB2. (Totally win and awesome!) . Add to that new DLC every week 
 and gives the largest selection of music in mordern rythm games. The tracks included on the game 
 disc are awesome. I've found myself saying "Wow, I've never heard that number before, but it ROCKS!" 
 many times, unlike in GHWT.
  
  I would like to comment on the new RB2 instruments, but since they haven't been released yet in 
 EU, I am unable to. All of the new GHWT instruments are fully compatible with both RB1 & RB2, and 
 of course RB1 instruments work fine in the game (DUH!) .
  
  Bottom line: RB2 improves on everything RB1 lacked and adds a lot of new features and opportunities. 
 In my book, RB2 is currently the ultimate musicgame out there, and I higly recommend getting it, 
 if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamefreak375
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Rock band was great, but it had several problems. The solo tour was linear which limited the experience 
 if you don't have friends over (I had to find stuff to make a mic stand to complete my tour) . Now, 
 Rock Band 2 changed it to just tour mode. A nice addition was Battle of the Bands putting tournaments 
 on rock band central. The original Rock Band also had band leaders (the leader has to be present 
 during your world tour) so if I made the singer the leader, the rest of the guys couldn't continue 
 without him. Rock Band 2 got rid of that allowing you to take your tour to xbox live. The only 
 downside I saw to Rock Band 2 was that you have to pay 400 Microsoft points to get all your old 
 songs, which I will probably do eventually.
  
  The verdict: If you tried Rock Band and were disappointed, don't hesitate to get Rock Band 2. It 
 won't let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXPLOSIVE
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:06 am PT
Review:  Bought RB2 for the kids for christmas. Who would have ever thought that an entire family of of 
 black people would spend half the day playing rock band on christmas? It was a blast! Very addictive. 
 Would be nice if they threw in more crossover artist like Kanye... etc. Either way, we found some 
 songs we liked and rocked on. Even the wife was able to play!! The drums are the funniest part. 
 I just hate the foot pedal. Very unconfortable. Maybe there's a muscle there that needs to be worked 
 out and will come to form after a while. Other than that, graphics are non existant. Or maybe bc 
 i'm not looking at graphics, just the next note i need to hit! Any way, great game. Best party 
 game i've ever played. No matter your race... etc, this game can be enjoyed by everyone! If you've 
 never played it and you're on the fence, jump! And i suggest get the full bundle with the drums, 
 guitar and mic. Pic up an extra guitar and dont bother with the cymbals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KujaIsBest
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I have both Rock Band games and all the main guitar hero games including World Tour. Rock Band 
 just has that polish to it that World Tour lacks. I blame Neversoft for that. World Tour is just 
 thrown together with no thought.
  
  And Rock Band 2 has amazing DLC every week.
  
  I love playing Rock Band while drunk. The person with the lowest percentage takes a shot!
  
 
   
 have both Rock Band games and all the main guitar hero games including World Tour. Rock Band just 
 has that polish to it that World Tour lacks. I blame Neversoft for that. World Tour is just thrown 
 together with no thought.
  
  And Rock Band 2 has amazing DLC every week.
  
  I love playing Rock Band while drunk. The person with the lowest percentage takes a shot!
  
 
   
 have both Rock Band games and all the main guitar hero games including World Tour. Rock Band just 
 has that polish to it that World Tour lacks. I blame Neversoft for that. World Tour is just thrown 
 together with no thought.
  
  And Rock Band 2 has amazing DLC every week.
  
  I love playing Rock Band while drunk. The person with the lowest percentage takes a shot!
  
 
   
 have both Rock Band games and all the main guitar hero games including World Tour. Rock Band just 
 has that polish to it that World Tour lacks. I blame Neversoft for that. World Tour is just thrown 
 together with no thought.
  
  And Rock Band 2 has amazing DLC every week.
  
  I love playing Rock Band while drunk. The person with the lowest percentage takes a shot!
  
 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix made a bold move upon leaving the Guitar Hero franchise behind them and picking up on 
 a new franchise. Guitar Hero had become the poster-child for rhythm games and picking up anew was 
 daring to say the least. Harmonix had a challenge ahead of them, but the result was a slick, multiplayer-packed 
 property that gamers would later come to know and love as Rock Band. Rock Band was the next great 
 step for rhythm games, just as Dance Dance Revolution, Parappa, and Guitar Hero were at their time. 
 Soon, thousands of gamers found themselves strumming, drumming, and singing in their own homes 
 with quirky plastic instruments. After months and months of downloadable content slowly filling 
 up Xbox 360 owners' hard-drives, Harmonix released the second installment in the Rock Band megalith, 
 the sequentially-named Rock Band 2. Does the second-coming of rock deliver?
  
  The World Tour mode has also earned itself some much needed tweaks. Now you can actually play through 
 the World Tour alone instead of requiring multiplayer bandmates. The mode can be played through 
 with any from one to four players, with the empty spots being filled with fill-in instrumentalists. 
 The Tour is quite expansive; you'll find a great selection of modes in the Tour selection. The 
 World Tour is the main event, where you move up from the depths of obscurity, ultimately reaching 
 stardom across the game world. You can design a band's name and logo; then it's off to the rock 
 circuit. You'll visit different rock locales like San Francisco, Seattle, and Boston, earning cash 
 and fans by performing shows and setlists. Along the way, you earn new agents, transportation, 
 and fame, all the while unlocking new shows and sets. In addition to the World Tour, you also get 
 Challenges, themed setlists that introduce new songs and DLC. You may find yourself playing some 
 songs more often than others, but overall, the main Tour mode has plenty to offer in terms of content.
 
  
  The multiplayer has always been the Rock Band series' strongest aspect and Rock Band 2 delivers 
 the classic party gameplay. Aside from being able to compete in the World Tour with friends, the 
 game still emphasizes the full-band theme over the single-player. While it's not anywhere as limiting 
 as the original Rock Band was, Rock Band 2 is still best played with friends. You'll find competitive 
 multiplayer over Xbox Live, along with the famous cooperative full-band experience. If you do play 
 through the World Tour or even Quick Play alone, you'll find as packed a community as with a whole. 
 Whether it be drums, guitar, vocals, or the entire band, the community aspect is very well implemented. 
 The Rock Band series has always been about the band experience, and Rock Band 2 still delivers.
 
  
  The skilled and competitive players will love the new leaderboards and Battle of the Bands modes, 
 which challenge a band to a usually themed setlist. While you won't find a ton of satisfaction 
 in the Battle of the Bands unless you're extremely dedicated and skilled in playing your respective 
 instrument, it's a fun diversion. The different themes in each Battle of the Bands are cool, although 
 some sort of feel like advertisements for the DLC. At one point, I wanted to play through the Offspring 
 Battle of the Bands, so I convinced myself to spend my precious Microsoft Points on the pack of 
 songs. It was a worthwhile pick since I'm a fan of the Offspring, though the Battle of the Bands 
 mode does demand you to pinch your pennies a bit less.
  
  But if you're a Rock Band veteran, a majority of your interest will depend on the song list, which 
 is ferociously extensive. The song list in Rock Band 2 is as comprehensive as you can get and chronicles 
 rock legends over the decades. Whether you're a fan of classic rock of the 80's or are just used 
 to listening to your favorite new track on the radio, Rock Band 2's song list will deliver in spades. 
 Also, each track on the on-disc setlist is performed by the original artists, so there are no worries 
 about lackluster covers in Rock Band 2. While my personal favorites were Soundgarden's "Spoonman," 
 Alice in Chains' "Man in the Box," and System of a Down's "Chop Suey!" any gamer who loves rock 
 music will find something to like in Rock Band 2's stellar collection of rock anthems. Pack in 
 a healthy and frequently-growing amount of downloadable content along with the ability to import 
 nearly the entire song list of the first Rock Band to your hard-drive and you get a song list that 
 will keep you interested for months and months to come. Some of the songs feel out of place, and 
 not all of them are as fun as others, but overall, the setlist is impressive and delivers enough 
 rock and metal to satisfy even the most jaded of rock stars.
  
  At its absolute core, however, you're still playing plastic instruments, watching the screen full 
 of scrolling bars, and listening to your favorite rock music. There's a degree of familiarity to 
 the system, and while it's definitely one of the most fun party games for the system, Rock Band 
 2 feels a bit too familiar. Rock Band 2 is still a great game, but being released around a year 
 after its predecessor does feel like a bit much. It probably would've been much more impressive 
 if this came out a few months later along with a few more improvements, but the folks at Harmonix 
 did a respectable job overall. The inclusion of more subtle additions like a Drum Trainer and No 
 Fail Mode rounds out a great package of old and new for the Rock Band loyal. It's not entirely 
 different, but it's definitely hard to put down.
  
  Pros
  + Rock Band gameplay is still fun
  + Huge song list, especially when combined with Rock Band 
 and DLC
  + Improved World Tour
  + Challenges, Battle of the Bands modes are fun and cleverly thematic
  
  Cons
  - Not much 
 has changed
  - Not all of the songs are fun
  - Emphasizes multiplayer over single-player
  
  Okay, so Rock Band 2 isn't the rock rebirth that the original was. At this point, we've seen 
 the band gameplay aspect in multiple forms for multiple franchises, and Rock Band 2 doesn't go 
 that extra mile in changing the gameplay significantly. It does feel more like an update than it 
 should be, but all minor gripes aside, Rock Band 2 delivers enough new modes and music to satisfy 
 fans and newcomers alike. You'll have a tough time finding a game with such a huge library of music 
 (both on-disc and DLC) . Rock Band 2, despite being released barely a year after its predecessor, 
 still packs a serious punch when it comes to delivering a strong party experience with an amazing 
 songlist. If you have played the original Rock Band, Rock Band 2 may feel like bit of a re-hash, 
 but the stellar collection of rock music and interesting new modes really make the idea feel refreshed. 
 If you haven't played the original, Rock Band 2 is a great starting point. At the end of the day, 
 Rock Band 2 makes some significant improvements to its formula, all the while delivering more of 
 what fans want, both in modes and music. It's a great follow-up to an incredible game and worth 
 picking up for music and gaming fans alike.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smasher10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing if you enjoy music. From 30 Seconds To Mars to Tokio Hotel to Metallica 
 to Weezer to.... Miranda Casgrove, there is something for everyone. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Very well done. Whether you are singing or playing drums, everything is pulled off smoothly. Vocals 
 especially kill Guitar Hero's. 
  
  From simple easy to expert, it doesn't take long to be able to somewhat play the game.
  
  9/10 
 for Gameplay
  
  Soundtrack:
  This game DESTROYS in the music category. There is something for everyone. Like I mentioned, there 
 is pop-rock, alternative, rock, grunge, metal... and even country now.
  
  10/10 for Soundtrack
  
  Graphics:
  Probably the weak point of the game. Not that they're 
 terrible, but they aren't very good for a 360 game. When you are creating your character, there 
 hair moves like a block (and they move it a lot) . Not the games strongest point.
  
  7/10 for Graphics
  
  Overall:
  A great game. Alone or in a party. The only problem may be 
 the $180 price tag if you need the instruments.
  
  8.6/10 Overall
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackbeard269
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This is exactly what i have been talking about in game makers worry about there pockets. Here you 
 have a great product with RockBand 1 and they come out with the same exact thing in RockBand 2 
 but they add cymbals. And people like me who have spent the bucks on RockBand 1 are now left in 
 the dark because the new added on will not work with RockBand 1. Could the makers keep in mind 
 the people who bought the 1st RockBand? No they rather us go out and buy the new improved RockBand 
 2. Well that's what i been saying by game makers not keeping gamers in mind when makeing games. 
 Its all about how much money they can pull out of are pockets. The game is the same as 1 but for 
 a few very little tweaks. I have been on the blogs and be leave me there is a lot of angry people 
 out there who are not happy about having to buy the RockBand 2 when they all ready own RockBand 
 1. The drums are the same the Guiter is the same everything is the same except for the cymbals 
 that RockBand 1 does not have. 
  
  The review is about the same as the first one. The game play is pretty cool the drums are kinda 
 hard to play but after a few hours of practice you can start to get the hang of it but for me it 
 was pretty easy because i play the drums. As for the Guiter i still can not play a real guiter. 
 But the RockBand guiter is pretty easy to play on easy that is. When you get better you may try 
 your luck at the harder levels and there is nothing easy about that. Its hard !
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pistonsuconn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2! The online world mode is definitely awesome, anyone can join no matter where you are 
 and start a band. The improved instruments also help, the kick pad, and drums on the drum are way 
 better. One improvement they could do is more variety, most of the scenarios and venues and cities 
 are just about the same. Also how bout some nice 80s metal and 90s metal, yaa we got metallica 
 and megadeth, its awesome but where is the slayer, anthrax, skid row, pantera, W. A. S. P, another 
 good one would be thin lizzy. Crap we don't need on that game: Paramore, Panic at the Disco, Joan 
 Jett, Duran Duran, Sonic youth, the donnas, if i ever see those stupid jonas brothers on there 
 i'll never play again!!! The game gets really addictive and you'll find yourself playing for hours 
 and hours. Getting a bunch of ppl together and just jammin is a blast. They still hav a few more 
 things to fix up but it's definitely a great game with great songs, plus you can hav a total of 
 about 500 songs on your playlist, will it ever end?... I hope not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13ALUCARD13
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  well this game is the best belive me awsome songs alot of choices on wardrobe and such
  
  the gameplay in this game is well obvious enough the same as rock band one but seems that the vocals 
 has been more forgiven this timehas awsome songs from the like 70s to the 2000s and has every genre 
 you get online tour mode wich is good but still for some reason it doesnt have the same vibe as 
 having a hell of alot of friends over and playing tour with friends
  
  audio is this game is pure awsome all the songs on the disk...... well most i belive theirs like 
 one or two songs that isnt orriginal recording but still those two songs are lame to begin with 
 but yeah harmonix did do an awsome job at getting every part of every instrument right since in 
 the first rock band i felt like if their were notes missing from the bord not in this one
  
  graphics in this is awsome same as the first rock band enough said
  
  newer features in 
 this game are well the main one is the no fail setting for when you have someone that sucks so 
 much it makes your grandmother look like a talented musicien. this time around no carector is stuck 
 to the same instrument you have change instrument middle of tour mode. another key feauture is that 
 you can well for the 360 anywayz you can install the songs from rock band 1 onto your hard drive 
 and you can play them into rock band 2
  
  the new guitar really seems to take a real beating without **** up, microphone is pretty much where 
 they made it easy to break....... (just drop it on the floor once and youll know what i mean) and 
 the drum set comes with that rubber you bought for the first rock band to make it less noisy
  
  this game also has alot of new songs for downloads and they update it regularily so you will 
 allwayz have songs to play
  
  i give it a 10/10 great stuff go check it out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lancealot325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix struck gold with the 1st Rock Band, which introduced drums and vocal, along with bass 
 and guitar. Wannabe drummers and screamers had their wishes come true. About a year after the 1st 
 Rock Band, Harmonix releases Rock Band 2.
  
  The gameplay and game interface doesn't change at all from the first Rock Band. Everything pretty 
 much stays the same. The new drumset (which is what I use) is more durable than RB1's, but I don't 
 know about the guitar (I use the GH2 Explorer) . The setlist is absolutely amazing, with songs like 
 Eye Of The Tiger, Painkiller, Carry On Wayward Son, Round and Round, Any Way You Want, Let There 
 Be Rock (a first for AC/DC) a bad-ass re-recording of Souls Of Black and many more. However, Harmonix 
 needs to learn to tier their songs a little better. I mean, come on, anyone can say Visions and 
 Panic Attack are much harder than Painkiller on guitar; Chop Suey is seriously not that hard on 
 vocals (you just have to sing it really fast) . Even with the somewhat incorrect tiering, the songs 
 seem to be harder on vocals and drums than ever before. For example, I was hoping Harmonix would 
 choose a good Metallica. They chose Battery. I was all like "Crap, that song is going to be a pain 
 on drums". Sure enough, it is (i've 5* it though) . Panic Attack is very difficult on drums due 
 to how long it is, clocking in at about 8 minutes. And don't even get me started on Visions on 
 drums. For me, I stick with guitar, which was right, because I've 5* 82 out of the 84 song setlist 
 (the 2 being Master Exploder and Visions) . But all in all, with all the DLC released weekly (can't 
 wait for Texas Flood!) there's no end to the rockin'.
  
  From what I can tell, I've had RB2 since day 1, and I've played it about everyday since. It's extremly 
 addictive on every instrument, and is even more fun to play with a full band. Honestly, if you've 
 been looking for a good, fun music game to play, then this is the one for you. With an excellent 
 setlist and tons of ways to play the game, Rock Band 2 is the best music game in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godmachine0603
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Im not much of a guy for long detailed reviews so ill get straight to the point and touch on some 
 key issues.
  
  Yes this years outing isnt alot diffent than the original but what has been improved on makes a 
 enormous difference. To make it easy, ill make a numerical list.
  
  1. ONLINE WORLD TOUR!!! Was this ever done well. Invite some friends or search for new ones. Its 
 a blast getting better and better and finding the right guys you can beat Visions on expert with.
 
  
  2. ONLINE SETUP AND MENUS!! If anyone reading this has played GH World Tour im sure youll agree 
 that the online setup is terrible. However RB2 has done it perfectly. I can go on and on about 
 this explaing why but if you try or have tried both yourself youll notice a huge difference!
  
  3. TRACK LIST!!!!! This is byy faaarrrrr the best setlist out of any rhythm game made. Its 
 by no means perfect, but complaining about the song selection here would be like being dissapointed 
 you won $100,000 and not $1,000,000.
  
  Go buy this game if you enjoy the genre in anyway. You will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DtheRed
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I am trually having a BLAST. I hang with buddies and have a few and crankit up. One thing you must 
 do no matter what is CALIBRATE THE LAG, I didnt think that it was right but played through it on 
 LCD I still rocked 5 Stars and got 98% or better. Plasma was bad especially for drums. Afterwards 
 I went home playing again on LCD and LAG auto with holding the guitar to the speaker and TV (which 
 is a Kick Arse feature) and now I am playing and not having to think about am I hitting soon or 
 late. The one thing I am still oversely curious to is the selection of track and DL content. I 
 mean they don't have alot of heroes from all the instuments. I mean the Fender artists alone are 
 absent not a one. Hello Stevie Ray Vaughn is a blast for guitar Danzig, Holy Wars anyone. Who knows 
 what to do about this, Who do we ask to get there head checked picking the line up and leaving 
 out staples! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bd0g5
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The original game, Rock Band was a big success. Only a year after its release, Rock Band 2 was 
 out. There isn't really a big difference between this game and the original, but still, Rock Band 
 2 is a great game.
  
  Now to the gameplay. Just like the last game, there are 4 different instruments. Guitar, Bass, 
 Drums, and Vocals. Before you play a song, you have to choose which difficulty It's going to be. 
 The four difficulties are easy, medium, hard and expert. If you can't even beat easy, don't worry. 
 They've added in something called "no fail mode".
  If you were more of a Guitar Hero fan, or this is your first time playing a Rock Band game, you 
 might be having some trouble on drums. Don't worry, there's a beat trainer, and a fill trainer.
 
  
  Unfortunately, Rock Band 2 isn't a big change from the original. It looks almost like the same 
 thing. The solo career has been taken out of the game, but they've made huge improvements to the 
 World Tour mode. You're still going around to different cities, playing many different gigs, but 
 you can do more than that, now. 
  You don't have to play World Tour with 2 people or more, because you can now do it on your own! 
 Also, there are two new things to do with your band; they are the battle of the bands, and challenge 
 mode.
  
  The graphics in Rock Band 2 are a slight improvement of the first game. The people in your band 
 look detailed, the instruments look better, and they've made other small improvements to the graphics. 
 The sound in this game, is obviously good. Even though people have their opinions about how good 
 or bad the songs are, It's still nice to have them. 
  
  So, Rock Band 2 is completely worth it. Though it may seem expensive, getting a guitar, microphone, 
 drum set, and
  the disk all in one is a great deal. So, even though the improvements from the first game aren't 
 that much, Rock Band 2
  is still a fun game to play solo, and especially fun to play with friends. Rock Band 2 deserves 
 a perfect 10/10,
  as it is the best rhythm game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VidKid24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I prefer the Rock Band series over the other music-themed series because of its simplicity. I just 
 want to play music, either solo or with a room full of friends and family. No matter the situation, 
 I don't want flashy visuals that will distract me from hitting the correct notes and sound effects 
 that make me question if I missed the last note or not. So naturally, I was pleasantly surprised 
 when I heard Rock Band was getting a sequel. Even though I download songs regularly and have the 
 most songs in my collection out of my group of Rock Band devotees, I was craving for even more 
 new songs. And this time around, the songs are more varied and mesh well with the original grouping 
 from the first game.
  
  Rock Band 2 improves upon the first game by making the menus more intuitive and easier to navigate. 
 Beyond that, there are a few minor updates to modes, but not much has changed from the original 
 game. But then again, why change the formula when the first Rock Band got so many things right? 
 
  
  Of the changes, I love the way you can complete the world tour by yourself or with your band and 
 use any instrument with your character. I felt the first game restricted your freedom by forcing 
 you to create separate characters for each different instrument and making you play through the 
 solo tours for each instrument and difficulty setting. If I didn't have my downloadable songs, 
 I'd probably go insane every time I heard "Tom Sawyer" or any of the higher difficulty songs that 
 are repeated endlessly through the modes. Rock Band 2 takes this into account and includes downloaded 
 songs into playlists for world tour mode to break up the monotony and add variety to those long 
 marathon gaming sessions.
  
  One of the questions I had initially was, "Will I have to change discs constantly depending on 
 which songs I want to play?" The answer is a resounding "No!" if you can shell out $5 to transfer 
 the songs from the first disc to be used with Rock Band 2. I took advantage of it as soon as possible, 
 and I now have my disc one, disc two, and downloaded songs all playable when I insert Rock Band 
 2 into my Xbox 360. 
  
  Overall, Rock Band 2 makes improvements over the gripes players had with the first game to make 
 the experience of jamming with your friends a less frustrating and more enjoyable experience. Fans 
 of the original should definitely pick up this game to expand their song library, and those who 
 are just now deciding to pick up a hands-on music game should look to Rock Band 2 as their first 
 choice.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud551
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  SHORT REVIEW
  
  The Good: Fixes the annoyances that Rock Band 1 offered, amazing tracks
  
  The Bad: The tracks that aren't amazing are absolutely terrible, still some minor annoying 
 issues
  
  The Lazy: Seriously Harmonix, this seems more like an update than a sequel.
  
  (semi-) LONG REVIEW
  
  As anyone who read my last review knows, Rock Band didn't sit very 
 well with me. The guitar and vocals were simply carbon copies of other games, and the drums suffered 
 from bad accuracy recognition and the always-breaking foot pedal.
  But no matter, for the sequel fixes most of Rock Band 1's problems. A quick tune-up was all that 
 this series needed to get back on its feet.
  So that's a 10, minus .5 for the recurring and sometimes fun-ruining annoyances, and -1 for being 
 to little, too late. That's an 8.5 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 10/10
  Just like the first RB2 has a artistic design thats flawless and also the framerate is rock solid. New 
 cloths, hair and faces are also present. Rock Band 2 gives you such a rush when playing thanks in 
 part to the bands energy and the way they all move perfectly with the mood of the song. Well done 
 harmonix
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  RB2 ups the difficulty with alot more metal and crazy drum parts. but at the same time it's progressive 
 and easy to learn, so even newcomers will feel at home. RB2 has a fantastic tracklist as well with 
 bands like foo fighters, disturbed, mettalica and fleetwood mac.
  
  Sound 10/10
  it's a harmonix game so the sound quality is perfect and these are all master tracks.
  
  Value 
 10/10
  80+ new tracks and all the DLC AND rock band 1s songs, in short RB2s setlist is amazing and the 
 DLC is still as strong as ever with 6 full albums by the end of the year.
  
  The good
  Amazing setllist, fine tuned difficulty, graphics still have a sublime effect, sound qulity is unmatched, all 
 master tracks, infinite value.
  
  The bad 
  My 360 broke = ( two weeks after purchasing RB2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alma996
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 is better than rock band 1 if that's even possible. The setlist is excellent and it 
 gives you plenty of songs to play and get attached to. The cutomization is amazing since there 
 is actually less limits to making your character. More hairstyles, different clothes, and it even 
 goes down to hobo instruments. The songs include chop suey, carry on wayward son, livin on a prayer, 
 and so many other great hits. You can now play on your in single player so you don't have to work 
 as hard to try and get someone for the endless setlist and you can play online with tour mode. 
 The game also has much better instruments. Though the mike doesn't matter, the guitar and what 
 I heard about the drums are amazing. The guitar is just flawless. Somehow the company made the 
 strum bar strum without a sound and with no squishy feeling. The design is better but when you 
 press down the frets, it's quiet. And for the drums, there is something like a gel pad in the center 
 so the drums are quiet and they are much more responsive plus the cymbols can be used. The only 
 flaw with the drums is that when you hit the blue pad hard enought, it may register as the yellow 
 one. However, the slightest touch of the stick registers with these babies! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdocz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The look and feel of Rock Band 2is very similar to the previous version of the series. The graphics 
 and game play continue the charm of the original RB but do not add much of anything new. The song 
 list is substantial and very bad or good, depending on preference.
  
  As for the game play itself: the drum play is similar but maybe slighly better than RB1, with the 
 new drum set. The guitar note charts are on the easy side but are fun to play, as long as the player's 
 primary motivation is to play the music and not play the game as merely a video game to conquer. 
 The vocals are the same as RB1 but the speaking parts are easier.
  
  So what makes RB2 a worthy addition to the full band genre? Aside from the quality game play and 
 song list, the ability to import RB1 songs and previously purchased DLC really adds to the value 
 of the game. Also, ability to battle other bands on the internet is cool as well.
  
  In summary, Rock Band 2 is a great, albeit easy music game, and a blast at parties. Unfortunately, 
 Harmonix was not particularly ambitious with the development of this version of the original cult 
 favorite. I would say RB2 the more or less the equal to, but not better than, its competitor Guitar 
 Hero: World Tour, retaining its own unique charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korn62586
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  To me. This game is a lot like the first Rock Band, but I've grown tired of play boring songs that 
 I really don't like. Such as the song by Lit. The Beastie Boys song when playing Bass can be played 
 by a monkey even on Expert. I know this is not a very complete review (the next however will be 
 very extensive, this is my first review and I just wanted to express that though Rock Band 2 isn't 
 bad, it just doesn't seem to improve on the original) . Play both Rock band 2 and GH: WT, and you'll 
 see the game Rock Band 2 wishes it was. Rock Band 2 might be better for people who want more of 
 the music you hear on the radio. GH: WT is still for the people who for the most part love METAL. 
 Not only that though. Rock Band 2 just doesn't offer the new elements of Guitar Hero World Tour. 
 I hope that the people that develop Rock Band 3 see all the right things that were done with GH: 
 WT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dire_Weasel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Treat Rock Band 2 as what it is ... an 82 song song pack for Rock Band that happens to come with 
 a few game play improvements.
  
  In short ... nothing was broken, the songs are great, the new modes are fun. All the changes that 
 were made to the game are minor, and all are improvements.
  
  All of your old content (including Rock Band 1 songs, for $5) can be played on Rock Band 2, which 
 means that there are probably going to be literally hundreds of songs in your collection.
  
  Both the new guitar and the new drum kit are improvements on the old instruments. The new drum 
 kit is especially nice; the pads are bouncier, more quiet, and more accurate. The guitar has a 
 better strum bar, and strangely, looks pretty good. Of course, it's still a plastic toy.
  
  Conclusion: If you're a Rock Band fan (and I certainly am) the decision to purchase this game will 
 be an easy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gill1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  I am a very big Rock Band fan, so you know how excited I was to know every song in the second game. 
 In a word, !!!!!!!!!!!!!. Basicly, other than new songs, its the same game but with some small 
 tune-ups. So, I'll only state the bad. This game has soo much potential, its afraid to leave its 
 roots. In the future, I would have liked to see strings on the guitar instead of plasti buttons. 
 Also, some new vocalistic activities. This includes dancing (Maybe a little motion sensor in the 
 mic) or even leting the crowd sing when star power is activated. Another problem is the lack of 
 a song creator. I know, it takes time. BUT, I'm just saying that I'd like to see this. Bellow is 
 my complete list of the good, the bad, and some of my wild ideas. But, I'm giving this game a 9.5 
 because it manages to keep its roots and mantian being fun, but not too inovative. Maybe next year...
 
  
  Good
   The game play remains fun and simple.
   The staff hiring is fun.
   The song selection is amazing.
   The ability to transfer songs (2Pts)
   A fun party game.
 
   The new instruments are fun, while keeping the old roots.
   Online world tour.
   Weekly downloadable content.
   The cheats are fun. 
  Bad
   No song creation.
   Not 
 many major new features
   World tour needs some new features (Choices, making a cd and having your choices rated by an 
 online audience, etc.)
   A volume dial on the guitar to fade out the ending, or just to change the volume of the guitar 
 mid-game
   Cymbals for the drums.
   Some new vocal activities (Dancing at some points in the song, having the crowd sing {activated 
 by star power} )
   A new instrument or way to play (Dancers {DDR} , Piano, or even a stage manager {pressing the 
 right combination of buttons to add the right effects like smoke, strobe light, etc.)
  Wild Ideas
   Another way to play the guitar {Top frets, bottom frets, etc.)
   Instead of 
 buttons, strings! When pressed, the guitar would sense the pressure. Also, string vibrations for 
 strumming.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 and Rock Band 1 are pretty much the same game. yes Rock Band 2 has more customization 
 options, yes Rock Band 2 has wireless and SLIGHTLY better instruments, but in the end its still 
 Rock Band. To be honest, by the time I put the game in and unlocked all the songs I was tired of 
 it. Now take that with a grain of salt, I was playing on my own.
  
  The deal is that it's still Rock Band. Rock Band is still A LOT of fun with a group of people. 
 It's the songs now (i. e. downloadable content) that will really keep Rock Band 2 fresh.
  
  The Good - tried and true, when playing it with friends its awesome. More customization options.
 
  
  The Bad - It's more of the same... guess that's not a bad thing, but there is no "wow" moments
 
  
  The Ugly - Is it me, or is Metallica's Battery a lot harder than any of the other songs? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blockie123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 vs. Guitar Hero 4. Many this Christmas will be making the choice. Easy option... buy 
 both. But if only one can fit on your list, here is the breakdown...
  
  Guitar:
  
  RB2 has generally less exciting guitar lines, but it does have a guitar solo counter. Usually under 
 charted. Okay guitar peripheral.
  GHWT has generally more challenging guitar lines, but is usually over charted. Good guitar peripheral.
 
  Verdict: If you want a better guitar game, buy Guitar Hero World Tour. 1/0
  
  Drums:
  
  RB2 has 4 pads and a kick peddle. Very hard drum parts on Expert.
  GHWT has 5 pads and a 
 kick peddle. A little easier than RB2 on Expert.
  Verdict: Tie. GHWT has cymbals, but RB2 has better charts. 2/1
  
  Vocals:
  
  RB2 features 
 a USB microphone. GHWT also has a USB microphone
  Verdict: No difference. 3/2 (Buy SingStar if you want to sing...)
  
  Songs:
  
  RB2 has 
 lots of songs and an amazing amount of DLC.
  GHWT also has a lot of songs and DLC seems to be coming along nicely.
  Verdict: RB2 has a slight 
 edge with the DLC and better tracks overall.
  3/3
  
  Band Tour:
  
  RB2 features a great world tour mode and introducing a new online mode.
  GHWT has a world tour 
 and online world tour, but it is not as exciting as RB2.
  Verdict: Rock Band owns in this category. 3/4
  
  Competitive Multiplayer
  
  RB2 features 
 online multiplayer with Face off and Pro-Face off. Also has a battle of the bands.
  GHWT has many different types of competitive multiplayer options.
  Verdict: GHWT is definitely 
 the king of competitive multiplayer. 4/4
  
  Extra Crap
  
  RB2 has a drum trainer and fill trainer... that's about it.
  GHWT has a song creator and an online 
 system called GHTunes. Creating songs is time consuming but fun.
  Verdict: Guitar Hero has a cool song creator, which is slightly more impressive than a fill trainer. 
 5/4
  
  4 Player Co-op
  
  Verdict: Rockband 2 has a better star power system, failing system, and a better everything in 
 this regard. Maybe GHWT 2 will be a bit better on this front...
  5/5
  Looks like its a tie! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:05 am PT
Review:  This game is all you need in a music orrientated game. Superb from start to end.
  
  Playing tours with you mates on Xbox Live, a rewarding yet satisfying carrer mode, and so much 
 more are compiled into one disc.
  
  First of all, i attempted to use my Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock controller on this game, but 
 i was itching to try Harmonix's version of the guitar and drums kit. So i went down to the store 
 and i got both really cheap with another copy of the game ofcourse.
  So i sold the new copy to a friend and got almost $50 in profit. So the money spent of the new 
 controllers were recooped in a matter of minutes.
  
  So i started the game, and i immidiately found that it was really difficult. The learning curve 
 is really not a curve at all. Even at the lowest difficulty setting, this game sometimes makes 
 you want to rip your hair out (a tad bit exxagorated) . But other than that, the only other thing 
 that is irritating, is some of the new songs that were added into the game. Some of them are from 
 rlatively unown artists. So you can't really expect to sing along to the songs properly.
  
  Other than that, nothing is wrong. Some songs are too long though, and can really ruin the game 
 experience. And the only way to unlock new songs is by jamming in the carrer mode. That bugs, but 
 other than that, it's preety awesome. Especially the customization, the freedom of instrument (in 
 carrer mode) and the 80 songs you have on the disc from the get-go.
  
  So, for that and the fact it was release less than a year after its predessecor, a definite must 
 have! ROCK ON DUDES!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NOS_MONSTER_666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok i do not have the drums for this game yet. so i will not talk about them-
  The games best improvement is the fact you can play world tour, by yourself. Yes, and you can play 
 online in another band with friends. And the difficulty has been increased as well. The instruments 
 work on GHWT and vice versa. so if planning and buying both, choose witch drums, guitar you want. 
 Because it doesnt matter. Also there is supposed to be 500 songs by december 31st! and 20 free 
 songs soon! They have also added the "challenge" option where you play a setlist and get a score 
 and you get money and fans and unlock all sorts of stuff for doing so.
  The game also has a drum trainer, and a free play mode. and a no fail mode, hyperspeed, no track 
 (where you cant see the notes so you must learn it by heart!) There are alot of popular songs like 
 Eye of the tiger, painkiller, master exploder, everlong, visions, down with the sickness and many, 
 many , MANYY more to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RushMetallica
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  I am a great Rock band 1 fan and player, beating drums and guitar on expert. So, this game was 
 easy to pick up and play for me. I will review the new features and upgrades for the game.
  
  SET LIST:
  
  Pretty solid in my opinion. All songs are originals which is sooo much better, 
 the covers of rush and iron maiden in the first RB were dismal at best. Harmonix has also added 
 a feature of being able to use ALL downloaded songs from the original and most songs from the first 
 setlist for a small fee. They have also included a free 20-song downloadable setlist, which include 
 small bands trying to get their name out. Overall pretty good, especially with allowing the old 
 songs to transfer.
  
  WORLD TOUR:
  
  Finally! The have created single-player world tour! And it is also online! This mode is simply 
 fantastic. Countless cities, many achievements which keep you going, and online world tour is a 
 great way to play with friends from around the world, which I have used greatly. This mode is the 
 reason you get this game. I think that they could have done this in the first game, and I'll bet 
 they were holding out to be able to make a second one though in my opinion.
  
  CHALLENGES/BATTLE OF THE BANDS:
  
  This is a new feature to music games as far as I know. Challenges 
 are setlists of songs orgabized in various genres, year of realease, or just randomly. Usually 
 there will be a certain amount of score you must get to complete the challenge. Battle of the bands 
 is an online mode to face off in challenges against every band in Rock Band 2. These modes provide 
 a great alternative in case you somehow get bored of world tour.
  
  DRUM TRAINER:
  
  They have added a drum trainer mode, where you can use the drum kit to practise various fills and 
 beats they give you, at various tempos. I am a drummer, so this was pretty easy, but the last few 
 beats were pretty intense, and I have yet to perfect them.
  
  So overall, now you don't need friends to play this game, with single player and online world tour, 
 this game is an updated almost perfect version of Rock Band 1. Get out there and rock! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtujd2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  What can you say about RB2 that has not already been said? Great playlist... check. An improved 
 World Tour mode whether you are playing solo or with friends... yup, that's there too. Improved 
 instruments? No question, but you don't have to have them as your RB1 instruments will work just 
 fine. No, what makes RB2 superior to the first game are the little things, the sublime nuances 
 to the game that aren't earth shattering standing alone, but the sum total amount to a much improved 
 gameplay experience for all involved. Being able to play World Tour on the bass is an example. 
 Nothing monumental there, but something missing from the first game that is a nice touch here. 
 Its things like that that make Rock Band 2 the best music game yet... or at least until GH World 
 Tour comes out. Truth is whether you play RB2, GH World Tour, or both, you will have a long lasting 
 and enjoyable experience.
  
  Now Rock Revolution... that's a different story LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  When I played the original Rock Band I hated it, and all I wanted was Guitar Hero 3. A couple of 
 weeks ago I really wanted to play Guitar Hero: World Tour, and decided to rent Rock Band 2. I picked 
 up my Guitar Hero Guitar started playing, and instantly fell in love with it. 
  
  This game has an amazing set list from AC/DC and Metallica to Modern Artist like Linkin Park and 
 Disturbed, and my personal favorite band, Red Hot Chili Peppers. Between the DLC, AC/DC Expansion, 
 Track Pack 2 Expansion, and being able to import your original Rock Band tracks, you will have 
 infinite amount of songs to play. 
  
  Multiplayer, the best part of the game. From playing a 4 member tour over XBL to right on your 
 couch, the mulitplayer is probably one of the best experiences you can have with your friends.
 
  
  Now this game does have a flaw, but not to much of a problem, its actually not even in the game, 
 its the instruments. The guitar strumming and drums are unresponsive and the drums are still pretty 
 loud, so just go and get a Guitar Hero 3 Controller and when it comes out, the Guitar Hero: World 
 Tour Drums, and you'll be set.
  
  To finish this review I have to say this is the perfect party game, if you don't have friends, 
 don't bother unless you like the genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recon807
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 for the Xbox 360 reviewed by Matt.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Audio: 9.5/10
  +Just as great as the first.
  
  Music: 10/10
  +An arguably better setlist than the original, 
 with more variety and plenty of indie bands.
  
  Visual: 9/10
  +Same style as it's predecessor, but touched up and improved.
  -The setlist (not the songs, the 
 actual list) looks much worse than the first game's; some album covers are of poor quality, and 
 the songs could be sorted by genre better.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  +Same addictive play.
  +84 songs is nearly 30 more than the first, and only a few are not that 
 good.
  +All but 3 of the songs in Rock Band 1 are able to be exported to your hard drive and used in this 
 for only $5. All downloaded songs are also compatible, for free.
  +/-New features focus around the band as a whole, and less around solo play.
  -What's new is 
 not totally revolutionary like the original was.
  -It can be very difficult to calibrate the game to your HDTV.
  -The songs are rated by difficulty 
 rather poorly, meaning some of the songs late in the setlist may not be as hard as earlier ones, 
 and vice versa.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  +Even more addictive than the first.
  +Online Band World Tour is a hugely welcomed addition.
  +"No fail" mode is invaluable when playing 
 with unskilled band members.
  
  Story: N/A
  
  OVERALL: 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I can honestly say that Rock Band 2 is alot better than Rock Band. 
  
  The songs are absloutly awesome some of the songs are new but for the most part there is alot of 
 80's nostalgia floating around in here!
  
  What i mean by that is that you have Eye of the Tiger, We Got the Beat, Livin on a Prayer and thats 
 only a handful of the 80's rock in there.
  
  Now getting away from the songs we have the same as last time you have a Solo Career and Band Career.
 
  
  The problem i had with Rock Band was that the Band Mode was just... wow but the Solo Mode was toned 
 so much it was depressing.
  
  But Rock Band 2 amplifies both modes in a big way!
  
  Solo Mode is not so toned now it actually acts more like Band Mode than anything now.
  
  The 
 Create-a-Star hasnt changed very much except there is a new shop that have thrift items which i 
 find to be the better of all of the them.
  
  Now on to the new modes of Rock Band 2 to change your experience you can turn on the "No Fail Mode" 
 or "Performance Mode" where there is no scale you better know your stuff!
  
  So there you have it i think i touched on all the Rock Band 2 stuff and yes there still is online 
 play for any band people out there dying to play over Xbox Live you can still do that as well.
 
  
  Overall Rock Band 2 is a solid game better than Rock band and now lets all look forward to Guitar 
 Hero 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DorkaDorka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Here is my delayed review of Rock Band 2, with a month to think about it.
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : Gameplay can't be much different than the first, can it? Well, with a better 
 selection of songs (talked about in detail later on) , you have more songs devoted to giving either 
 an instrument, or the band in general, difficulty (or at least a good time playing) without making 
 everyone else around you (other players, on-goers) bored. This helps a lot, and the way the songs 
 are now structured are much better (more on that later) .
  
  Songs (9/10) : The song list is one of the best in recent memory, reminding me of the classic list 
 from Guitar Hero II (arguably the best ever, except maybe this one) , full to the brim with songs 
 (80+ songs) , and it isn't just filled with crap like the first Rock Band game (anyone else sick 
 of playing "Creep" or "Should I Stay or Should I Go"?) and the third Guitar Hero. The big problem 
 is that when we get to the solos, it suddenly becomes like 'hit random buttons in the correlation 
 [oooh! Big word] of the notes de/ascending'. What do I mean by this? There isn't a lot of logic 
 to the fast solos, but just a lump of notes heading down or up the fret. Hit nearly random notes 
 in the area and you're done (it does take practice to get it down, and a ton to actually get it 
 on purpose 100%) . But, the massive amount of songs is more than enough to make up for it. But, 
 one more complaint is being able to unlock them takes forever seeing as now you have to go through 
 Band World Tour.
  
  Multiplayer (10/10) : This is even better than the original with things like no band leader! An 
 owner, yes, but no leader, and interchangeable players/instruments adds flexibility, and the fact 
 that Band World Tour now can, and is necessary, be played solo. Nothin' much else to say. You know 
 how it is, but now it's easier, and fully on Xbox LIVE (but also LAN)
  
  Overall (9.5) : The game is great, but it does take forever to get all the songs, and it is only 
 an update, basically, but it is well worth it. Fun, full of compatibility, who could ask for much 
 more? What should be added: more Metal (my personal taste) , and possibly an easier way to get the 
 songs, really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 graces us on the 360 first for a short period of time, and then on the Wii, PS3, and 
 PS2 later on this year. It isn't so much a totally new concept like the first one, but it fixes 
 many of the issues (the little ones that there were) with the first one and updates the second 
 one. 
  
  First off the great thing about Rock Band 2 is that ALL (accept for 3) of the prior Rock Band songs 
 either down loaded or on the game disc are compatable with Rock Band 2. This makes it great so 
 you don't have to clutter your space with more game discs then you need (like Guitar Hero) . Although 
 2 of the 3 songs are really go, I'm sure that covers or the real ones will be available on line 
 soon, if not in another music game. Menus are easier to navigate then before, and on any other 
 current music game. 
  
  As stated before, not much has changed since the first game. The graphic engine is essentially 
 the same, with minor improvments in detail and animations here and there. The music and sounds 
 of course continue to be great (as they should be) . The play control is exactly the same, the only 
 thing I wishe they would change is the size of the "tear drops" that represent the notes. I wish 
 they were a little bigger, but that's just being nit picky. However the play control is still spot 
 on. Rock Band 2 is compatable with all prior instrument controllers. I also feel that Rock Band 
 2 (along with the first) has a better grip on it raising the difficulty level. Hard isn't impossible, 
 but if you practice you can pass any song. Expert doesn't feel like it's out of reach either. 
 
  
  The biggest change comes from the first player mode. This makes it longer, which I like, it also 
 allows you to use the same character you have created for all 4 of the instruments (although you 
 can't port your prior characters from Rock Band 1 over, all of the items are there to make the 
 same character) . To make it even longer port over your prior Rock Band songs from the first game. 
 They will be included in the roster. The 1 player works the same way the multi player "rock around 
 the world" mode does. You gain money for items and fans from your songs. The nicer the place you 
 play, the more fans you get (but you can lose more too) . If you can't beat the songs on a harder 
 level, you can go back and play it on an easier level and still get cash and fans. There are also 
 little challenges here and there that can change the way you play the songs. 
  
  Rock Band 2 boasts an even larger and longer play list. I think it's better then the 1st, but once 
 you include the 1st play list, it's massive! Songs range from Pop Rock to grunge metal to emo to 
 nu metal. It's a very good range that not only will you Mom and Dad like, but your younger siblings 
 will too. 
  
  Rock Band 2 multi player is still the best music games have to offer (although with GH4 coming 
 we'll see) to date. You can still play locally, online, single songs, form your own band, and play 
 for fans on line like the prior installment. There are a couple of extra modes too that will give 
 you and 3 of your friends a good time to explore. You can even play on line with 3 other people 
 not being in the room. 
  
  Rock Band 2 to date provides the best single and multi player expierence. I have a couple of small 
 gripes here and there and that's why it's not perfect. Oh well, until Rock Band 3 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bored_gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band was great and Rock Band 2 is great too. Once you play the game for the first time, your 
 downloaded songs you had in the first Rock Band will automatically transfer to Rock Band 2. At 
 times, the songs are easy and you will probably FC them on your first try depending on you level 
 of play. The single player career mode is basically the same as the world tour mode in the first 
 Rock Band because you play in venues around the world from LA to Stockholm. As you advance in the 
 game, some of the random setlists will have you playing the same songs you played in a previous 
 time and that kind of gets annoying but you have to have some patience for that. If you quit or 
 restart, you'll lose some fans just like the first Rock Band's world tour. Now I will talk about 
 the songs in Rock Band 2. There are no covers in the game whatsoever. All songs in Rock Band 2 
 are originals. Great songs that are for people of all ages. Songs by bands like Fleetwood Mac, 
 System Of A Down, Disturbed, Foo Fighters (2 of my favorite bands) and artists like Billy Idol 
 and Alanis Morrisette. Not to mention pop rock bands like Panic At The Disco and Paramore and some 
 indie rock. One of the issues with Rock Band 2 is not just that it's hard to play sometimes (well 
 for me) but they have a death metal song by some band called Abnormality and I'm not into that 
 kind of music but it was funny to play it on vocals. But they have songs you probably liked growing 
 up. I know there were songs I listened to when I was a kid. Keep em Seperated by The Offspring, 
 The Middle was a song I heard in high school, My Own Worst Enemy was a song I heard when I was 
 11 years old. so yeah I liked that it had some songs I listened to growing up. I'm just waiting 
 for Guitar Hero World Tour now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blacklight2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  The playlist of this game is just awesome, it has a mix of classic and modern music. 
  
  My favorites are Linkin Park, Avenged Sevenfold, Afi, and of course Metalicca. 
  
  I think 
 this game will beat GH: WT because it has about the same setlist as Rock Band 2 and i'm willing 
 to bet the dlc will be similar.
  
  The drum solos are a great addition to this game and i doubt that GH: WT will have guitar solos 
 or drum solos that give extra points.
  
  I love how the singleplayer tour works now, it's much better than just playing 84 songs than your 
 done. It gives it alot more variety and gives you achievments that you couldn't get otherwise which 
 is great for achievement whores.
  
  The challenges give something to do when your bored and they give cool rewards such as the bass 
 one gives you the bass bomb which would normally cost 64,000.
  
  The Xbox Live is just awesome in this game, it's fun seeing how you are against people around the 
 world.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bwags
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  I was very leary to purchase this game, because I read so many reviews claiming "it's already been 
 done" and "nothing new." I now wish to silence those critics- THIS GAME F***ING ROCKS!!!!! Understandbly, 
 the game has not undergone any major reconstruction, but it's friggin' rockband - you knew what 
 you were getting into when you bought it! 
  
  Technically, the game looks a lot more polished than the previous entry (my favorite touch is the 
 holographic icon that shows your name and what instrument you play when you first start a game) . 
 There are several new arenas, but the game pays homage to its roots by throwing several of the 
 "retro" venues in there as well. 
  
  The gameplay has been minimally tweeked, which is not a bad thing. The game feels more responsive 
 and not as cheap when you're attempting to play at a higher difficulty.
  
  RB2 revamped the single player and co-op campaign. Gone are the days of scrolling down a list looking 
 for songs you haven't played. The new tour feels like a new experience and being able to do it 
 online is like an early Christmas. My favorite part thus far has been hiring different agents and 
 all the perks that come with being a rockstar.
  
  You would expect music in a musical genre game to be exceptional, and rockband2 meets and exceeds 
 this. The tracks are suprisingly very diverse and covers many of the main staples of rock. I love 
 Rockband the most for its ability to expose me to new music in a fun and intuitive way.
  
  Rockband 2 doesn't propel the series into a new genre - and it never claimed it did. It merely 
 does what it does best - Gives you a high quality, fun, rocking' game that you will play for the 
 next year and half! Don't believe the boos - BUY THIS GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvforme4334
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Single player world tour, endless customization, brand new Guitar and Drums, online band world 
 tour, almost endless replay value... biggest set list in a music game every (and one of the best 
 too)
  
  What more could you want? Not much if you ask me.
  
  There isn't all that much new, but there's enough new, especially with the ability to import RB1 
 songs to warrant the $60 price tag. Calibration is slightly off sometimes, but its a very minor 
 gripe.
  
  I would recommend this to anyone who liked RB1, or just likes music in general. Oh, and the Ion 
 drum set is a blast! i can't say the same for the guitar, as its not all that different. But, it 
 all works fine, which is what matters.
  
  In short, its not all that different, but, it never was really meant to be. Some people will call 
 it "Rock Band 1.5", but I think there is just enough here to make it Rock band 2.
  
  Final grade: A- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trentsta107
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Overall this hasn't changed that much from Rock Band 1 but the songs are all ten times better and 
 there are much much more songs to choose from. The idea of letting you import songs from the original 
 was great the Xbox Live Dlc is great for new songs. But one of my favorite things about Rock Band 
 2 is the online "Battle of the Bands". and these are competitions that last like 5 days or so and 
 you get ranked in the world by your score. I just think that is a great step forward from Rock 
 Band 1. Also me and my friend had a freakin' amazing time getting the 'Steel of Bladder' achievement. 
 (Beating the endless setlist without pausing or failing a song) . We would switch off between guitar 
 and bass on expert and we were fine until the song called Visions by Abnormality and we almost 
 failed it at the end but thank god we didn't. That was some the best time i have had in a while. 
 Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I had a blast playing the first RockBand but this one was even BETTER!
  
  I have a modded XBOX so I am banned from online or multiplayer which made it impossible to play 
 Band World Tour on Rock Band, but on Rock Band 2 you can actually play Band World Tour without 
 having to go online!
  
  The graphics are so-so, much like the initial game was but the characterizations and customizations 
 of each character and their attitudes and outfits was definately fun to do on this game. But it 
 would be much better if you could customize all facial features more like in the Tiger Woods games, 
 so you could get someone who looks exactly like you do for a more fun factor.
  
  The songs on this game are awesome! I especially like the additions of Judas Preist, Megadeath 
 and Dream Theater to the mix! It kept me playing for hours and hours and was well worth the purchase.
 
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone who likes the series and the whole music game phenomenon. 
 I am holding out for the Guitar Hero: World Tour to get all the instrements and then will come 
 back to this game to play the mic and drums portions of the game.
  
  Play this game you will enjoy it, great songs and gameplay! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VitaExodus
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  With the coming of Guitar Hero: World Tour, which music game manages to outweigh the other will 
 become more important than ever - no one wants to pay $360 for 2 set of instruments and 2 games. 
 Rock Band 2 is a traditional sequel, tweaking and polishing the original to near perfection. But 
 is it enough to head back again?
  
  BTW, BWT...
  
  The first change that's obvious is the removal of solo mode - BWT was a brilliant system, but the 
 people without a buddy around got stuck with the old GH method of unlocking songs. With BWT now 
 open for everyone, it has a far more enjoyable way of rocking out, getting better gear, and unlocking 
 the whopping 84-song collection (100 if you have internet access) .
  
  Making the Band
  
  New additions to BWT include performing music videos (with gorgeous graphics) , choosing the band 
 promotion staff, to customize how many fans you get, or how much you'll be able to earn for each 
 gig. They're not revolutionary ideas per se, but still add a little more flavor to the rock solid (GET 
 IT?!?..... agh...) Tour mode.
  
  IS THAT A CHALLENGE?!
  
  For those looking for a better test of endurance, or a quicker way to unlock songs, challenge mode 
 has been added, very similar to the Oni mode from the later DDR Arcade games. It proves a nice 
 addition, providing a collection of nonstop setlists that offers rewards every now and then, from 
 expensive bergear, to super instruments. Challenge mode also has an important feature to save 
 your songlist progress for later, especially handy if you're trying drums on expert, wink wink.
 
  
  Tangled Up In 84 Songs
  
  All of this pales in comparison to the highlight of Rock Band 2, the drastically improved soundtrack. 
 As nice as the original soundtrack was, few parents, relatives, and random friends recognizd most 
 of the songlist. This sequel manages to be the polar opposite - It's hard to resist AC/DC, Duran 
 Duran, Metallica, Judas Priest, Modest Mouse, Bob Dylan, System of a Down, and on and on. Core 
 players need not worry either, the difficulty for all instruments has been upped - Take a listen 
 to Painkiller by Judas Priest... and PREPARE.
  
  And the Answer Is...
  
  As far as my reccomendation goes, if you liked the first Rock Band, you'll be dying for the sequel. 
 Although they did miss a few missed opportunities like the music studio, there are too many improvements 
 in all the right places - If you were yearning for the sequel, go ahead and get it.
  
  -Vita
  
  Extra Notes:
  
  Performing the vocals for Master Exploder will probably break 
 your voice, and/or cause your head to explode. YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.
  
  The No fail mode prevents all saving, so make sure you turn it off before going into tour mode 
 - That would be a nightmare after doing the endless setlist... agh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  remarkable what a few adjustments can do. From instruments to user interface to gameplay options, 
 one thing after another makes you nod appreciatively and smile while playing Rock Band 2. Rarely 
 are these profound alterations, but taken together Rock Band 2 is now a much more cohesive experience 
  a fantastic platform all the better for its nearly infinite expansion possibilities.
  
  It's unwise to go into Rock Band 2 expecting some decisively different game from the original. 
 Even a practiced eye might have trouble distinguishing the two. You're really paying for two things. 
 The first is a huge new selection of songs. Over 80 tracks ship on the disc, another 20 will be 
 available for free in the first weeks, and literally hundreds can be purchased online from a library 
 that has been slowly building since the first game's release. Previously downloaded songs seamlessly 
 integrate into Rock Band 2's primary modes, and you can even import all the original Rock Band 
 on-disc songs into the new game. Examining only the songs on the new disc, Harmonix has embraced 
 the philosophy of all-inclusion. There's something here for everyone, and the music genres represented 
 are all there for a reason  they are almost without exception great song choices. 
  
  I can't think of any person to whom I wouldn't recommend Rock Band 2. Playing alone, it offers 
 a suitable challenge for any skill level. Playing with friends and family, it is one of the best 
 social games ever made  a testament to the way games can bring people together to have fun. Sometimes 
 good game design is about dramatic innovation. Sometimes it's about knowing what not to change. 
 Harmonix knows how to do both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrex1212
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  I have now scrapped my original review to write a new one since I finally ended up getting this 
 game.
  
  Rock Band 2 is pretty much Rock Band 1 with some added visuals and a couple modes that generally 
 just make it easier to unlock songs *cough* Tour Challenges *cough*.
  
  Unfortunately the world tour is the exact same before, just a little bit more forgiving I guess. 
 If you are playing with people who suck and play easy mode all the time (my girlfriend ;D ) then 
 you can still at least gain fans, but the difficulty is still cut away from the menu after quite 
 awhile of playing World Tour. Luckily my girlfriend CAN play medium so it isn't entirely bad. However, 
 the campaign is pretty much playing Make a Setlist and Mystery Setlist, in order to get the most 
 fans and most stars in the easiest fashion possible. The fact that you can play online is ok, but 
 I never do it because there is no way to decide what difficulty band you want to be a part of. 
 They rate the bands from E, M, H or X for the different difficulties and by 3 - 5 stars judging by 
 their average amount of stars accumulated per song. My band is X level with my friend who plays 
 drums, and we have a 5 star average since we gold star almost every song up until the songs that 
 are TOO difficult to even play on the drums without a double kick pedal.
  
  The only modes added that are worth playing are... none of them. The drum trainer is a pretty lame 
 mode since I guarantee 96.8% of the people who go to play it are doing it for the achievements 
 and not to learn how to perform "better fills" on a fake drum set. Practise mode is the same as 
 before so nothing to say there other than, practise is much more beneficial if you want to be able 
 to beat a song that troubles you, the drum trainer just teaches you random beats that you won't 
 remember if you encountered because the thought process when playing Rock Band or Guitar Hero doesn't 
 utilize memory, it only utilizes your hand-eye coordination in order to hit the "notes". The Tour 
 Challenge mode is really lame, there are 7 or 8 tiers of challenges where you play from 3 - 80 
 songs in a setlist. Might as well go into world tour and play your heart out in mystery setlists 
 and make a setlist.
  
  The only play is also quite useless, anything competetive about this game might as well be thrown 
 out the window because with the 4 instruments to play and the 4 difficulties that gives a low probability 
 that you are going to get matched with anybody regardless of whether it's a player or ranked match. 
 The only instrument worth playing would generally be guitar because it is the least faulty of all 
 of them anyway.
  
  Now unless us Canadians get jipped out of the good versions of instruments for these games, or 
 something happens in the delivery truck on the way here, but EVERY and I mean EVERY instrument 
 I have got for ANY guitar hero or rock band game has been faulty other than my Guitar Hero 1 black 
 Gibson SG. That guitar is generally just a piece of crap in the first place because of how old 
 it is, but the fact that I have owned one guitar hero 1 guitar, 2 guitar hero 2 xbox 360 guitars, 
 3 guitar hero 3 guitars, 2 for xbox and 1 for PS3, and now the fender stratocaster, the drums and 
 the mic, these have all failed me. So somebody send me an instrument that actually works properly 
 so I can at least see what it's like to have something non-faulty and worthy of using. Especially 
 considering Guitar Hero: World Tour comes out tomorrow and I would love to be able to play that 
 right out of the box. I have yet to even bother buying the instruments because when I played the 
 game at E for All in LA I found that the guitar had the same strum bar as the current rock band 
 guitar, which I hate, and the drums hi hat and crash symbals back and forth when you play them 
 hard enough or long enough.
  
  I can't lie though, I have a guilty pleasure when it comes to rhythm games even though I play all 
 kinds of real instruments, and I still love Rock Band 2 because of all of the awesome and fun songs 
 to play. Definitely still deserves an 8 with the simple fact that this remains one of the best 
 party games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolfLink5777777
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Though this might initially seem like a full priced expansion pack, it is not. This game, like 
 the first, is incredibly addictive, even more so than what preceded it. The Band World Tour mode 
 has been expanded and is now accessible while playing solo (Solo Tour has been removed) . Inside 
 this reworked "base" of the game, there is more to purchase, new setlist challenges that get increasingly 
 difficult, and an online Battle of the Bands mode that lets you try to reach the top of the leaderboard 
 within a set of songs.
  
  But if you're just using the game as part of a social event and want to just play some songs, you 
 can even activate a No Fail mode, prebuilt into the game, in case someone who's never played before 
 wants to give it a try. Also, the menus have been completely redone. No longer are they just song 
 names on a piece of paper, but the album artwork is displayed, as well as the year, album and whether 
 it is from Rock Band, Rock Band 2, or DLC.
  
  And yes, for $5, you can import all but 3 of the original Rock Band songs, and all previously purchased 
 DLC automatically imports into Rock Band 2 for free. The instruments are also improved; the guitar 
 is wireless, strums much better, and does not require a screwdriver to replace the batteries. You 
 can also play a Drum Trainer mode that helps you improve your skill slowly, and just jam on the 
 drums in Freestyle Mode.
  
  The only slight problem is that the look of the game is practically the same, but those who had 
 complaints about the simplicity of the first game's guitar tracks will be tested a few times throughout 
 the game. Overall, if you enjoy rhythm games or liked the first Rock Band, this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  People may think that Rock Band 1 and Rock Band 2 are similar, and yes that is true, but.. the 
 instruments actually made some improvements like the guitar and drums. The drums were now wireless, 
 so now you wouldn't have to worry about tripping over them. The songs in the game were good but 
 could've added some songs that are more enjoyable to listen and to play on. As we all know there 
 will be over 500 songs to play over, so that'll be tons of replay value for it to offer. As long 
 as I have 100 songs, I'm good , but this has exceeded the limit, and pleased me even more. The 
 price is a bit over the range but that's fine as long as I have tons of fun with my friends. There 
 are some new modes that they offered in Rock Band 2, which included Battle of the Bands mode, Drum 
 Trainer, and more. So.. the only bad things in this game would be (no big change) and the setlist 
 could've been slightly better. But overall Rock Band 2 is better than it's predessor, and is recommended 
 for people who loves to play with their friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  In this game you of course play notes at the right time but in this game you do the exact same 
 thing. The game is kinda like Rock Band 1 but some stuff are new like the battle of the bands which 
 you can only do if you are a Xbox live subscriber. There are also these things called challenges 
 when you play some songs to get new ones they get harder and harder the more you play it. The last 
 thing that changed is that there is no single player gameplay but you can by playing a one man 
 band. Like if you want to play the guitar just go to the local band tour and just create your character 
 and then you can just play as the guitarist. There are new instruments like new designs of drum 
 sets but not that much new guitars. There are a ton of new clothes it ain't even funny. There are 
 the old clothes or there are some clothes that are old but just has been updated. The game has 
 a very good tracklist but for some songs it ain't that fun to play. The game is really the same 
 from Rock Band 1.
  
  The good of the game is that the game is just right. The game has alot of new features. Good tracklist.
 
  
  The bad of the game is that the game isn't that different from Rock Band 1. Some of the songs are 
 boring to play.
  
  Overall this game is really good and it is a must buy game I rate this game 9.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-Lee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  As you know, Rock band 2 is the sequel to last years hit. The game includes 84 songs, all master 
 tracks, and you can even import the 55 rock band 1 songs if you own the 1st one. 20 free songs 
 will be available for download soon. It has the same game play, but all these songs make your purchase 
 great. I bought the new drum kit, and its a huge step. Very quiet, 3 symbol ports, and velocity 
 sensitive. New modes include Battle of the bands, which is much more fun than it looks, and playing 
 with 4 people in one room is just and maybe even more fun than it was in the first. The only weak 
 points that i found was that the graphics haven't changed really at all, only some new animations, 
 but I like the graphics still! The band world tour is pretty much the same, and there is no more 
 solo mode, so that's a great thing to lose. This is a must have for rock band 1 owners and newcomers 
 alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoov_B
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  Good stuff
  Huge track list: With 84 songs included with the game there's a lot to like (and dislike) . The 
 music spans a couple generations and many genres. The songs are also well suited for each band 
 member - generally giving each instrument some good variety in musical composition - ranging from 
 repetitive to chaotically complex. Combined with Rock Band 1's setlist and downloadable content 
 that can all be played on 2 and you're left with a pretty respectable library.
  
  Setlists: Whether you're in quickplay or World Tour mode, it's easy to create your own setlist 
 of any length allowing your band to move from song to song without having to leave the venue and 
 go through different loading screens. Your library of songs can also be sorted to your taste and 
 quickly browsed through making it easier to find a particular song or play only songs in a certain 
 genre or by a single artist.
  
  Customizable characters: Like before, RB2 lets you create a band member by making a few simple 
 selections. The character creation itself isn't terribly robust but it does offer some good variety 
 letting you change height, weight, color, hair, face (from a collection) , and their musical style 
 which will dictate how they behave on stage. Once you start making money playing as a band in World 
 Tour mode you'll be able to afford different clothing options, change your hairstyle, buy unique 
 instruments, and add/make tattoos.
  
  World Tour: Creating a band and traveling around to different venues is fun as there are lots of 
 different places to play. Of course, this will only affect the look of the stage you play on. Playing 
 on any difficulty will gradually unlock new venues (depending on how well you play) provided you 
 have the necessary transportation to get there.
  
  Change band members anytime: Your World Tour isn't affected by what instrument you're playing so 
 you can start a Tour playing guitar and at any time change to a different instrument without affecting 
 your progress. As well as add or remove band members.
  
  Online bands: The online portion of Rock Band 2 is far more feature rich than any other rythm game 
 out right now. It's easy to have friends join your band online (and vice versa) and play in both 
 Quickplay and World Tour modes. A small gripe is that music selection is limited to only one person. 
 If others want to influence the setlist, they have to trust that the person in control will cater 
 to their whims.
  
  Battle of the Bands: Just as a nice addition to keep you coming back for more, RB2 includes weekly 
 challenges that stack you up against your friends and the RB2 community at large to see who has 
 the greatest chops.
  
  Visuals: While not exceptional, watching the game is much more interesting than watching Rock Band's 
 rival, Guitar Hero. Characters are interesting to watch on their own and often interact with each 
 other. Occasionally the screen will take on a particular style or emulate a 70's music video. It's 
 also a nice touch when the crowd gets into the music and starts singing along - although I guess 
 that's not really graphics...
  
  
  Bad stuff
  Track list sucks: OK, so that's harsh and taste in music is subjective. It's doubtful that anyone 
 will love every song on here. (If you do, you've struck gold.) The problem isn't really one of 
 taste though as it is one of length and repetition. There's a number of songs and bands that were 
 included that I really enjoy, and was excited about. In practice however, these songs just don't 
 transition well. They're simply too long and often times, the composition is too repetitive to 
 be enjoyable. (Sonic Youth's "Teenage Riot", Bob Dylan's "Tangled Up in Blue", Beastie Boys' "So 
 Whatcha Want".) Personally too, I don't feel that enough of the songs really "rock." Or perhaps 
 more accurately, there's a lot of songs that are snoozers. Regardless of genre, they just don't 
 have that get up on your feet, barroom sing-a-long familiarity. It's hard to get excited about 
 a song that doesn't stir something inside you. Even by lesser known bands, it's not hard to find 
 music that simple gets your blood pumping to the beat or has you waving cigarette lighters in the 
 air, so it has me scratching my head when a party game like Rock Band comes out with very little 
 party music on it. It's good music. It's just not music I care about playing.
  
  Unlocking music: Not a big surprise and not terribly annoying or frustrating but songs have to 
 be unlocked in World Tour mode before they can be played anywhere else. This means that your Quickplay 
 library is very small out of the box and it also means that if someone joins you for an online 
 game, you're both restricted to what songs the host player has unlocked.
  
  World Tour: Too open. This could have really benefited from a simple storyline and a more linear 
 progression. There's just no feeling that your band is really accomplishing anything. Yes, you 
 can unlock bigger and better transportation, hire more effective managers, play bigger venues, 
 and finally grace the cover of Rolling Stone but it's all very haphazard with very little direction: 
 "Play this gig to unlock such and such." The ending is terribly anti-climatic. A balance between 
 it's chaotic open world and the linear progression of Guitar Hero would have been nice.
  
  Meh visuals: The graphics aren't anything special. I do like some of the effects and it's fun to 
 watch your band members dancing around (if you can look away from the notes) . Harmonix also did 
 a pretty good job with the crowds in terms of character and movement variety but there's still 
 a lot of repetition. You'll see several people doing the same gesture in unison. Guitar hammer-ons 
 are also a bit too inconspicuous - denoted only by thicker white lines on either side of the button 
 graphic. I found these easier to recognize in Guitar Hero.
  
  
  Overall, I do really enjoy Rock Band 2. As a music game though I feel it falls short. Maybe it's 
 just my taste in music, maybe it's the fact that Harmonix tried to cater to so many musical tastes, 
 maybe it's the shear size of the library that causes me to overlook lots of songs, but whatever 
 the reason I'm just left wondering where's the music that makes me want to rock?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronfilmltd
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band propelled the music genre in games from simple guitar strumming to a great multiplayer 
 party. And with over 80 songs on the disc, and over 200 downloadable songs, it's apparant just 
 how much content there really is. The question here is, does the sequel make enough improvements 
 on the last one to garner a purchase?
  
  The answer here is yes, and there's no doubt that Harmonix did all they could for their sequel. 
 There are 84 songs on the disc itself. Not only that, but you can actually export 55 out of 58 
 of the songs from the first game to play on Rock Band 2, so there's no need for swapping discs. 
 All of your downloads from the first installment are also forward compatable for Rock Band 2, so 
 once again, there's no need to swap discs.
  
  There are also several new online modes, including Battle of the Bands, where your band can compete 
 with another one online. Other than new clothes and band customization, Rock Band 2 goes with the 
 'if it ain't broke, don't fix it' approach. If you liked the first one, you would definitely enjoy 
 the sequel, since not much of the gameplay has been dramatically changed. And if you already own 
 the first game, all it costs you is 60 bucks to get started with your rocking.
  
  The game adds a Drum Trainer mode as well, which really is what will catch the newer players', 
 and even more experienced drummers' eyes. This mode has a Beat Trainer, Fill Trainer and Freestyle 
 Mode, each of which are excellent additions to the game. Beat Trainer is all about keeping simple 
 beats for a certain period of time, Fill Trainer teaches players how to create simple and complex 
 fills that don't cause their friends' ears to bleed, and Freestyle Mode allows you to jam freely 
 on tons of different kits. It adds a lot more depth than you would think.
  
  Rock Band 2 doesn't make huge steps as far as new content, but in a way, that's a good thing. All 
 the key gameplay elements are still there, and nothing has changed. The massive library of songs 
 and all types of new customization options will keep your band playing to the last venue. And with 
 Guitar Hero on the horizon, only time will tell if Rock Band's enormous song list will win the 
 battle, or if the GHTunes service will. For now, Rock Band 2 earns its place in the hearts of rock 
 aficionados everywhere, and even to those new to the music genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judacrisjojhu
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to keep this short and to the point. They made 5-6 great songs to play and padded it 
 with 75 more songs that are either boring or no fun to play at all. They ruined the ACDC song, 
 but luckily the Grateful Dead song is legit. but its as if the stopped trying after making some 
 songs great, its really a shame. I haven't seen a guitar simulator to date that feels like this 
 game. I can't believe this game just makes me mad to play... once I'm done finding the couple songs 
 that are fun to play, I'll get bored of them, and the game won't have any replay value. Also the 
 setup for unlocking songs, very stupid, Guitar Hero is a much better setup with set lists. The 
 guitar is loud but in the wrong place. It needs to be loud for the strum so you can keep the beat, 
 or quiet all over, whats the point?... enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robflip
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom 
 whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom 
 whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom 
 whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom 
 whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom whatsoever!
  can play over and over again.... no boredom 
 whatsoever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turokkilla
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Ahh yes Harmonix... Good people my dad works with the co-creator but that's a diffrent story, so 
 yes i got rock band 2... and how much harder this game is then the first... ugh
  
  
  PROS:
  
  
  Song selection: tottaly inferior to the first... but seriously really great songs, 
 and really fun to play!
  
  Downloadable content: My jaw fell out of my mouth when I heard they are sueposed to have over 500 
 songs i already have 30 downloaded songs ( (thanks to back of instruction book) ) but really great 
 songs by my favorite band ( (All that remains: chiron, this calling, two weeks) ) also some songs 
 by boston like "More then a feeling"
  
  Great family/friend game: Finally a no fail mode, If ur mom and dad suck and ruin ur night, no 
 fear "no fail" mode is here! just tell them not the sing the song ;) and also for friends who suck, 
 overall this game is fantastic no, Superb in multiplayer just awesome now that you can go online 
 and help people in there Tour, and help you, unless if THEY suck and fail and loose you fans... not 
 my problem.
  
  Awesome:.... Awesome
  
  Cons: 
  
  Microphone: Ew... no i love sining my death metal songs... i tried this now... for songs that arent 
 as... um yelly just humm the tune... i mean really it works if u hum but that sucks all the fun out 
 of the game and yes i know many MANY to many people that do this and here is what the little 12 
 year old kids say after i yell at themi'm scared to sing infront of people" THEN WHAT IN THE 
 HELL ARE YOU DOING SINGING ON EASY FOR?!?!?! GOD I mean i am not going to yell at u if you suck 
 but... Just dont loose me 15,000 fans!
  
  Besides that yes... possibly my favorite game of all time SEE YOU ONLINE!!!
  Gamertag: snowbrdfrk 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gallir
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  First off I rate pretty harshly when it comes to scores. Unlike gamespot I the average score I 
 give is probably not a high 6 to low 7. For me the greatest games in the world deserve about an 
 8/10. I don't rate according to the time the game was made either, basically the more fun the game 
 is the higher the rating it gets and a 10/10 is a game that would last infinite hours in anyone's 
 lifetime (it would be perfect even in the year 2050) .
  
  Let's start with the gameplay. This game plays like the first RB. For ppl who don't know basically 
 there can be up to 4 ppl playing at the same time (singer, bassist, guitarist, drummer) . For everything 
 (except singing) notes come down on a conveyor belt and when the note gets to a strip on the bottom 
 you press (or hit w/ the drumstick) that button (for guitar you hold the button before and strum 
 when the note gets there) . For singing you get the words and you see a line that shows what pitch 
 to sing at and you try o match that (you can also see your own pitch) . With 4 levels of difficulty 
 almost anyone can play and have fun (and there is a No Fail cheat for those who are absolutely 
 useless at the game) . Generally the gameplay is what you'd expect, getting achievements can be 
 some what fun and overall the gameplay is probably about a 8/10 or so.
  
  Music/Tracklist:
  There are 80 songs, about 30 of them that are decent (btw before this game 
 I was not a music person so 30/80 isn't too bad) . The only thing I don't like is that there is 
 no "legendary song" or any songs I really, really like. In GH1 it was all about Bark at the Moon, 
 in GH2 it was all about Freebird (I also liked Six, Message in a Bottle, and Sweet Child O' Mine) . 
 In GH3 it was all about TTFAF (and I liked One and a few other songs (maybe 5 of them) as well) . 
 On RB I loved Run to the Hills at I liked Hammerhead (DLC) . In RB2 there is no single song I really 
 like, just a few decent ones and some good ones. Well I'll give the tracklist a 7.5/10 (mostly 
 for quantity) .
  
  Graphics:
  They look like RB1, characters have a few more looks, background can be interesting for ppl who 
 are watching (or in my friends case the one who's playing (he'll look at the background and comment 
 on the characters as I watch him fail on medium) ) . Maybe 8/10? for graphics.
  
  Replay Value (here it goes) :
  First off I think how good a game is, is mostly based on how good 
 it's replay value is. How much you will play it before you get bored. Here's my criteria:
  0/10: No replay value. Bored as soon as you start.
  1/10: 1 hour. Play 10 minutes here, 10 minutes 
 there you'll eventually play for an hour.
  2/10: 3 hours. Same as 1 hour just play small increments of time if you're ever bored and 3 hours 
 isn't hard for a game to achieve.
  3/10: 5 hours. Either a very short game that is only fun the first time through or just a game 
 that isn't your favorite.
  4/10: 10 hours. The first playable game. Either a short game that is only good first time through 
 or maybe just a pick-up-and-play game that isn't the worst.
  5/10: 20 hours. Typical game that you should've rented before you bought. A 20 hour game isn't 
 bad, but get a new game soon after or you'll be bored.
  6/10: 40 hours. Here it is, the definition of a "game". It lasted about 40 hours in which it's 
 fun at first has a few peaks, a few parts where you slightly frustrated where to go, has some replay 
 value after beating it and a working multiplayer. 
  7/10: 100 hours. A must have. This game will last you. You will play it, beat it, play it some 
 more, beat it some more, show it to your friends, think you're all good and play XBOX Live and 
 you'll try to get lots of achievement points after doing pretty much everything.
  8/10: 300 hours. The sacred number and the highest I've ever rated a game. A game that lasted you 
 this long is probably the best you'll find in your lifetime (a 9/10 if you're lucky) . Unless og 
 course you're really hard core and simply play too much. Anyway this falls into the category "Masterpiece". 
 Of all the hundreds of games I've ever played only a few deserve to be in this category (Zelda 
 LTTP, Zelda OoT, SSBM (maybe) ... remember I was a Nintendo fanboy) .
  9/10: 1000 hours. Well there is no such thing, so I don't have much to say. Basically OoT as an 
 MMORPG... a massive world, many new weapons (same controls though) , co-op quests individual quests, 
 DLC every week or 2, fighting others, etc, take a masterpiece and make it flawless.
  10/10: 10000 hours. No matter if a game is flawless it's really not possible to never get bored. 
 I mean it's the same game whether there is new DLC content or not. Sorry this will never be achieved 
 (according to me) . 1,000,000G to whoever pulls it off.
  
  I'd give this game a 7.5 out of 10 according to my scale. I think since it has DLC you can keep 
 trying new songs. It has Live, it's a fun 4-player game. Also you have basically 3 (though you 
 could say 4) different instruments to play which adds even more to the fun. (You'll notice my Overall 
 rating goes pretty much hand in hand w/ the replay value.
  
  Difficulty Flow:
  First off I said the games difficulty is hard, that's because even though there are many difficulty 
 levels any hardcore player just has to play Expert and to be able to beat all songs on all instruments 
 is pretty darn hard. I can easily beat all of Bass on Expert, 1 song (Ramblin' Man) on Guitar took 
 me 3 tries. Now for Drums if you wanna beat the hardest songs you gotta put in 300+ hours and for 
 singing... well you gotta know the songs and be not embarrsed to sing all the time until you get 
 "good". I'd give the game a 9/10 for difficulty flow since there are songs from very easy (warmup) 
 to very hard (impossible) and there are 4 difficulty levels to choose from.
  
  Overall: The game is a 7.5/10. In my rating system that's a great rating and well the game is great. 
 Btw I didn't have RB1 so that may have made me like this more. If you like rythm games get it. 
 If you don't know if you like rythm games either play one at a friends house or get a used X-plorer 
 guitar and a used copy of GH2 and you may (or in a rare case) may note like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otanikun
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  It seems that Rock Band 2 has attempted to push the envelope a little bit more in terms of packing 
 in alot of songs, enhancing some features such as World Tour mode online and the ability to drum 
 train, rather than banging on it and hoping you hit it right on time.
  
  But other than that I'm not seeing they made much of a stride in game play, it really looks like 
 much of the same old song and dance they did with the first Rock Band, and that's not really saying 
 much.
  
  That's like saying something has been new and improved, only to find out not much has changed other 
 than how a button is either pressed or placed on your game controller or remote control, or how 
 you car now has power windows, wow that's an improvement.
  
  Much of it looks the same, characters are very animated when it comes to rocking the stages they 
 play in, but the physics could still use a little work Ala Guitar Hero, as they have the Havok 
 physics engine built into the game to give them a more, shall I say noodly playing style, rather 
 than watching your characters hand move like a robot when strumming. I know everything can't be 
 perfect, but improved animations are welcome, oh and the strings moving on the guitar is still 
 pretty cool.
  
  At least their competitor, Guitar Hero, has released a multitude of updates and enhanced features 
 on top of playing the game Ala Rock Band; such as the music creator, enhanced create a rocker courtesy 
 of the Tony Hawk series and the ability to switch your songs from Guitar Hero III without a fee 
 of import.
  
  The song list is impressive, to fit over 80+ songs onto a single game disc is no easy feat to accomplish 
 I'm sure, keeping the core engine running and all that stuff, I'm not that huge a technophile so 
 I do apologize about improper use of terminology.
  
  However, there is one thing that irks me with this, I may not have downloaded a plethora of songs 
 for this game before in the past, with that number being below 15 songs I've downloaded as I am 
 not a rich man to spend that much money for songs I don't like; but to charge their customers an 
 albeit small, fee for importing their RB 1 downloads into the current to me is a little greedy; 
 but it could be worse I suppose, say 5 dollars for every 10 songs or something.
  
  Over all I'm not seeing much improvement over the previous title, perhaps more improvements will 
 be available or thought up during talks of Rock Band 3?
  
  One can only hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jediknight52501
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Ea and Harmonix are back. Rock Band for the 360 is amazing as you play in different cities throughout 
 the US and Europe. what is nice is that you can play all your downloaded songs from Rock Band 1 
 and for about 5 dollars you can transfer almost all the songs from Rock Band 1 and play them as 
 well. what is nice about this one is that you can play World Tour by yourself this time giving 
 you more chances to play some great songs once again. what also makes the game more fun is the 
 challenges from various locations around the world as long as your hooked up to Live. some flaws 
 are some of the songs are not as good as you expect and playing the same song over and over can 
 get annoying. what is nice is that all the instruments from Rock Band and Guitar Hero work on this 
 game so you won't have to spent too much money to have fun with your friends. what is also nice 
 is that World Tour is on Live and you can have people play a song with you on Live and it is fun 
 option not found in Rock Band 1.
  trhe game is fun and i suggest if you have Rock Band 1, you should get this game and enjoy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-
  The gameplay of Rock Band 2 is exactly like Rock Band 1. Seriously... There isn't any major improvements 
 or innovations in the way your strum, sing, or drum. It is somewhat good that they stuck to the 
 original formula because it works well. I wish they included a few more things such as a Studio 
 that lets you create your own songs like Guitar Hero World Tour or Rock Revolution. But in the 
 big scheme of things, it isn't that important. One big change for RB2 is that there is no more 
 Tier based levels. In RB1 you would play 5 songs, move on, play another 5.. so on, so forth. In 
 RB2 this Tier based Gameplay has been replaced by Singleplayer world Tour and Challenges. This 
 is a strange change but it won't affect you unless you were counting on having a Tier based songs. 
 New for RB2 is a drum trainer, it lets you practice fills and beats at your own speed. It is fun 
 and will keep your busy for quite a while as you try to beat beats at 200BPM. After a bit though 
 you will get bored with the drum trainer and you will eventually forget it is there. The Songs 
 in RB2 are great! Metal, Prog, Psychadelic, New-Wave. You name it, RB2 has got it. This is the 
 strongest part about rock band 2. 85 solid songs.. If the setlist was shorter and had worse songs 
 on it my score would be much lower.
  Overall: 9/10
  Story/Characters-
  There really is now story in RB2 so we don't need to talk about that. The characters are what you 
 make them. You make your characters name, outfit him in the garb you want (assuming you have the 
 money) and put him on stage. I like the addition that you can have custom characters playing in 
 your band at all times. Instead of having different people in your mighty band you can make them 
 permentent additions. One thing that did disapoint me is how little character customization there 
 is. Compared to last years game I was very surprised.
  6/10
  Graphics/Sound-
  The graphics and sound are both great but there is some annoying graphical glithces that look extrtemely 
 wierd. For example: during a Guitar Solo your character might lift his/her guitar in the air to 
 salute the crowd?? That kind of happens a lot but you leanr to ignore it as you go along..
  7/10
  Replayability/Multiplayer-
  Best part about RB2, Getting together with 4 of your buddies 
 and jamming is really really fun. It will last all night I assure you. the Xbox Live play is also 
 much more fluid and a lot less laggy. Rock band 2 will keep you entertained for a looooooooooooong 
 time. and even longer if you have Xbox Live or a buddy to play with
  10/10
  Overall-
  Great Game, Great Fun. Not as good as I thought but still worth the purchase if you liked the first
 
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMonthlyDaily
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, everybody who played Rock Band 1 could name half a dozen things that needed to be 
 fixed and could be very easily. Luckily, they all were fixed.
  
  No longer is your character resigned to playing one instrument for his/her entire career. Characters 
 are interchangeable between instruments and bands.
  
  Single players will be pleased to discover they can do the World Tour on their own, a pleasant 
 bonus for those of us with more time to devote to Rock Band than our friends do. Also, you can 
 team up with friends over XBL. And if you're not up to finishing up the tour on Expert, that's 
 fine. Your progress doesn't come to a screeching halt when you hit a preordained number of fans, 
 but the fan increase does slow down.
  
  The animations are improved, with character actions being much more amusing for all onlookers not 
 actually playing an instrument (and not hypnotized by the flow of notes past the screen) .
  
  The drums are now wireless, are velocity sensitive and are MUCH quieter, a huge bonus for those 
 of us living in apartments. You also get a whole lot more game play on the drums, with beat and 
 fill trainers, plus an option to play drums over any tracks you may have on your Xbox hard drive. 
 
  
  Overall, this is the greatest party video game to ever come out, made even better by the "No Fail" 
 option. Grab some friends, grab some drinks, and get ready to watch your friends make complete 
 fools of themselves trying to sing along to Blondie and the Beastie Boys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AxeShredder221
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  The sequal to Rock Band is Here! Although I prefer GH4 this game is amaizing ly awesome!
  Because:
  -Better Graphics (Kinda, they looked redone)
  -Awesome Setlist (MASTER EXPLODER! 
 BATTERY! ETC...!!!)
  -Great Song Artists like Metallica, Tenacious D, A7x
  -Great features!
  A. The New Juke Box Feature!
  1. Listen to songs performed by your custom 
 created band
  2. Arrange The Setlist!
  B. A little more Customizable Characters!
  C. AND MORE!!!!
  -Created By one of the best game creators, EA.
  -Best Game of the Genere!
 
  -Great Family game!
  -The new Ion Drum Kit! ($300?!)
  A. Moveable symbols (Blue symbol cost $50! : [ )
  B. Useable in both Rock Bands and possible to 
 ones to come!
  C. Useable as a Real Electric Drum Kit!
  -New Drums (That comes with the Game, Not the ION)
  A. Softer, quieter, and more responsive!
 
  
  This game is simply amaizing. U MUST BUY IT!
  If I could I'd give this game an 11.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mi2k3
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I am going to make this short, simple, and sweet to the point. Rock Band 2 is not a great game. 
 Why would Harmonix even make this game? It's just so bad. The gameplay is simple and mindless. 
 Trust me, playing with fake instruments is not fun. But I did like the tracklist, with bands such 
 as Metallica, Megadeth, Survivor, The Donnas, System of a Down, Tenacious D, and more. But the 
 songs aren't the best of the bands. Seriously, would you want a song like Master Exploder on this? 
 It's not even rock! And is Battery the best song they could come up with? And trust me, Peace Sells 
 is a great Megadeth song, but it's just a little too hard for people who haven't played drums or 
 guitar before. The game was just too easy for me (I've been playing drums for 3 years) . I hope 
 you don't get this game for Christmas. The only good thing I can say about this game is its graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursiveSaturn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  The day has finally come! Rock Band 2! Rock Band 2 is the sequel to the orginal game Rock Band 
 which was produced by Harmonix, the company that created Guitar Hero 1 and 2. Rock Band 2 is an 
 extremely enjoyable game with a brand new set list that has some new and great songs like Shackler's 
 Revenge by Guns N' Roses as well as classics like Spirit in the Sky by Norman Greenbaum. The addition 
 of a new clothing section called "Thrift Threads" include a nice new addition of clothing for you 
 to select. Graphics have improved in a mild way such as making the same faces (as well as new faces) 
 look more natural and smooth. New clothing sections included masks, piercing and bandanas. A variety 
 of new hair styles have been added to the already large selection of styles such as an afro and 
 a military-style cap. Rock Band 2 also features the same clothing, hair styles, etc. from Rock Band. 
 The set list for Rock Band 2 has a total of 84 songs with the option to trasfer 55 of the 57 Rock 
 Band songs (Enter the Sandman and Paranoid were removed because of liceancing issues.) Included 
 in Rock Band 2 is a code that allows you to obtain 20 songs for free for Rock Band 2. The down 
 side is that you cannot choose what 20 songs you want. One last thing, the dreaded Endless Setlist 
 is back! This time it features every one of the 84 songs in Rock Band 2 to equal about 10 hours 
 of rocking!
  Onto the gameplay! Rock Band 2 now features solo and online World Tour. You no longer need 2 players 
 to play World Tour. Battle of the Bands is a new mode added in Rock Band 2 that gives you the option 
 to bring your band into a small compition in which you must bet a certain score to advance up the 
 leaderboards of this challenge. That reminds me! Challenges are a new feature that have you and/or 
 your bandmates play a set list of songs from a variety of catogories that such as Vocal Warm Up. 
 Playing to the very last challenge for a certain instrument will unlock you a special outfit that 
 you can wear. World Tour now allows you to hire one roadie like person that will provide you with 
 bonuses to your band, such as making it more where you will get more special events to participate 
 in. Rock Band 2 still works smoothly online and the cities in World Tour are the same with a few 
 new cities included in the mix.
  I sadly did not purchase the Rock Band 2 Bundle so I really have no idea how any of the new gear 
 works but from what I know, the Stratocaster has a less squishy strum bar. The drums are more silent 
 and the harder you hit the drums, the louder they will sound. The mic is the same except it has 
 a little more weight to it.
  All in all, Rock Band 2 is a solid sequel and the new setlist is very enjoyable and has songs for 
 everybody. This game is a must have for any person that loves music games. I give Rock Band 2 a 
 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will_KutyerKawk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  The same great game you know and love, only this time with what the original left out. First off 
 you get 84 Master tracks on disk. If that's not enough? 20 more songs are going to be made available 
 for download for free. Plus all your downloaded tracks are imported into all parts of the game. 
 With all that and the promise of 500 songs by years end. How can you go wrong? One of the coolest 
 new features is the drum trainer. Learning real beats and how to play proper fills is a great addition. 
 Have not yet tried the new instruments, but that isn't what I'm reviewing. I am hoping that the 
 new guitar's strum bar is more like Guitar Heroes. I thought my fist RB guitar was broke when I 
 got it. It wasn't until I sent back my first one, got my second, and tried it. That I realized 
 it was supposed feel like that. The game it self was everything I thought and expected it would 
 be. If you liked the first Rock Band? I can't see you being disappointed in any way with this second 
 attempt. Great work Harmonix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cargo_Barge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  For the most part I am fascinated by the games 4 player gameplay. There is nothing more fun in 
 my opinion than sitting down with three other people and being a band without any practice.
  As far as each individual component of the game is concerned lets start with vocals. The vocals 
 have a smooth pitch system that you dont really even have to be good at singing to achieve. The 
 game still wont acknowledge it if you try to scream like Mettalica, and that is a really bummer 
 when you have to sing blackened rather that yell it. Other than that you dont have to be as spot 
 on with the spoken words anymore either.
  Next of course is the lead guitar. In the songs I have played so fare there seems to be a much 
 more visible use of hammerons and pulloffs. Really lead guitar has not changed much but if it had 
 I dont think any of us would be as happy with the game.
  Drums have stayed relitivly similar along with the guitar. One awesome feature is the drum solos 
 where the drummer has a chance to shine as much as the guitarist and believe me this makes for 
 some exciting party play.
  Bass as usual stays sort of quiet and has stayed the same without any noticable changes.
  The 
 final feature I would like to talk about is the ability to customize your characters. In Rock Band 
 2 you can make your character look anywhere from Gene Simmons to David Bowie and that is a large 
 range. While you may never watch your character during the show it is still entertaining to create 
 your own customized figure.
  To sum it up, Rock Band 2 is a great game and is well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-Sama
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  (Disclaimer: FYI, I'm a guitarist, so this review is from a guitar players POV.)
  
  See, I compare how fun a game is to Halo 3. If we, in my group of friends, play a game almost as 
 much as Halo 3, it's considered a addictive game.
  
  I got into Guitar Hero III and then Rock Band 1, which turned out to be better than Guitar Hero, 
 which confirmed that I would buy Rock Band 2. So what do I think of the game?
  
  It's good.
  
  Not RB1 good, but good.
  
  See, RB1's on disc songs were a bit more diverse 
 I believe. Actually, it's my imagination. Where RB1 had 58 songs that were about 50% 90s-00s, RB2 
 has 84 songs that are about 50% 80s-00s. Don't get me wrong, that's not always a bad thing. I take 
 almost anything over Bob Dylan (Tangled Up In Blue sucks, don't care what you say. But... where 
 are the Stones? How 'bout Hendrix? Doors? Okay, you have some Who... What about Bee Gees?
  
  See? The biggest problem with ALL of these games (GH included) is a failure to break from the 
 new BS that isn't worth mentioning in comparison. Not just in terms of decade, but where are some 
 of the genres? RB2 has one ska song. Where is the Reel Big Fish and Sublime? Non thrash metal is 
 under-represented. (I'm a metal guy to a certain point, but BRAH!!!!!!!!! BLAHBLAHBLAH ---DEATH!, 
 kinda sucks.) I mean, we got two or three thrash metal packs, two punk packs, even an emo pack 
 of sorts, but no grunge pack? Injustice!
  
  Of course, you know, the massive DLC library kinda pushes you away from this issue. Hehe...
  
 
  Yeah, you DO have to remember that there's a decent chance of what you're looking for to be released 
 as DLC at some point. I'm still waiting for Sublime and Nirvana, but that's just me (*hint hint) .
 
  
  The game stays the same (hah, cookie if you get the reference I just made) , which is a good thing. 
 Vocals talkies are fixed, so you can actually 100% talky songs now (I fc'd Visions, Give It Way, 
 I can't get the last phrase!) There is a drum trainer... The Battle Of The Bands mode, while it 
 might kinda seem like a good idea on paper, just depresses you a little when you realize you'll 
 never be as good as the number one band on the leaderboards. Nice try, but you're number 1,701 
 of 11,390! Try again next time!
  
  And the solo tour of RB1 is now gone in favor of a version of the original Band World Tour. Intresting, 
 as it's less linear, but god, is it just me or does it take forever to unlock the songs this way? 
 I do like the new 'modifiers' such as 'piss off your drummer' or beat this random song without 
 any overdrive, helps keep the game fresh. 
  
  You also have Tour Challenges which force you to do different song sets for fame and money. It 
 also takes DLC and lumps it into this as well. For example, you have all the Avenged Sevenfold 
 songs like I do? Play the 'Impossble' challenge with those songs. The achievements are easier to 
 get this way though, sadly. You don't need to play on Expert for the 'Animal' achievement, which 
 was for EXPERT drums in RB1... (I suck at drums, so I of course don't have it.)
  
  Okay, thinking about it now, maybe it's not easier. Comparing Visions, Bodhisativa and Painkiller 
 to Green Grass And Tides, Highway Star, and Flirting With Disaster? Visions is hard as balls to 
 play. Bodhisativa is beatable, and Painkiller takes accurate Overdrive usage, skill, and hell, 
 plain LUCK to beat. So yeah, the game is harder and easier at the same time. (I'm disappointed, 
 RB2 went the cheap route and just had metal as the hardest songs, as apposed to to really hard 
 southern rock and things in RB1.
  
  I still think RB2 plays better, but for you, the person reading this review, I have to ask you, 
 what do you listen to? Go to Wikipedia, check out RB2's setlist along side GH: WT's setlist and 
 make a decision. But keep in mind that RB2 ALSO has just a few hundred DLC songs (500 by the end 
 of 2008) . I already had a preorder down on RB2, but then they announced Blood Sugar Sex Magik by 
 Red Hot Chili Peppers as future DLC. RHCP=one of my favorite bands. BSSM=one of my favorite albums. 
 Rock Band and about 15 RHCP songs (plus Snow, Dani California, and Tell Me Baby) , two tastes that 
 taste great together. Made me realize how much I liked my purchase.
  
  But GH isn't just borrowing RBs drums and vocals for a joyride, they're making adjustments. A music 
 creator for GH (you can only make three minute songs though) and some big guns like the Doors and 
 Hendrix might make RB sweat a little.
  
  Yeah, get RB2. You'll thank me when your favorite band gets DLC. And if you have RB1 and are thinking 
 about buying this, why not? It's more of the same, just with a few added things stitched in pretty 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commachoice
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the original Rock Band. Even with all of its shipment problems and flimsy prototype instruments, 
 I still played it for hours, wore through two pedals (circuitry/magnet failure both times, I'm 
 not like one of the retards who broke it by flailing their feet around) . Having said that, I account 
 a large amount of it being fun is that it was similar to Guitar Hero, but with all the flair of 
 an MTV Music Video or MTV TV show, and all the instruments I could bear. However, Rock Band 2 almost 
 totally boots the 5-song-setlist system. In return, it replaces it with a fine-tuned multiplayer 
 tour, for both solo and multiplayer. 
  Now, I enjoy this change because it makes the game feel more open -- like an MMO. But it also makes 
 it feel a tad generic. With Rock Band, I knew the songs that I could choose from were given to 
 me in that order because the people at Harmonix knew what song I could do at what level... instead 
 I feel like now I'm just wading through a sea of cities and songs, to some distant unforseeable 
 end, which distinctly reminds me of an MMO. I enjoy the openness, 9 points worth of enjoyment, 
 but that 10th point eludes this game by the genericness brought on by taking away any sort of guided 
 course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sindath
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 Review (Good and Bad)
  
  Good
  
  -Songs and more songs they never stop coming at you -The new instruments are way better
  
  
 -Battle of bands mode great thing to have in game get to face off against other people
  
  -Achievements are way better there more out there to be more fun to get except for the steel bladder 
 achievement geez
  
  -World tour for everybody now not just 2 or more people
  
  -The Drum Trainer -They really toughen the songs up
  
  -You can also find people for your band 
 to play along with 
  
  -Challanges set up is great go from easy songs on the first challenges then you get to impossible 
 challanges and you start playing painkiller, Panic Attack, Ace of Spades, Battery
  
  Bad
  
  -Not alot of new stuff in the game in the case of gameplay
  
  -Still can't choose the song 
 if you battle 1v1
  
  -With finding people for your band you have no idea if there good or not wish there was something 
 like a number out of a number how good the person is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hydrolix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This game can be summed up as follows... More Rock Band. That's a good thing because Rock Band is 
 a really fun party game.
  
  Now RB2 add a couple of things that RB should have had which do amp the fun up a notch. First is 
 the ability to do the world tour alone... the last game was frustrating when it comes to achievements 
 for two reasons. 1. You had to assemble a crew to do them and 2. They had to be good players.
 
  
  With RB2 you can go after your achievements alone if forced to.
  
  The inclusion of online band mode is killer... but just like the GS review says it's way more fun 
 with friends than random people online.
  
  That about sums it up when talking about what was delivered. If you like the old, you will like 
 the new.
  
  I want to talk about what wasn't delivered. 
  
  This game is amazingly close to being the coolest music game ever created... but it's missing being 
 truly epic by the smallest of margins.
  
  I can't tell you how many times I've said to or heard a band mate articulate some small something 
 that would cause the game to go from fun to rock your socks off.
  
  And I'm not talking about some huge departure that would be difficult to do... I'm talking about 
 little things.
  
  Some examples:
  
  The net code could be a bit better. It's good as is, but there have been several times where the 
 band de-synced just enough to throw someone on expert off on a solo which caused a fail or we missed 
 the mark on a 5 star.
  
  What about the ability to play one instrument and also sing with the headset? Of course that would 
 require the voice transmission to be better. Everyone sounds a bit garbled and muted on the headsets 
 for some reason.
  
  If I can play all the songs on hard or expert why in the world would I want to play through it 
 on medium just for an achievement? This is more of a complaint with the original RB, but seriously... the 
 lower difficulty achievements should be achieved by doing the higher difficulty ones.
  
  There's more, but like I said they are tiny things... but as a whole would make RB THE killer karaoke 
 band app. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themrdrof1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  On top of having (almost) your entire Rock Band library imported into this sequel, gamers get new 
 features like Battle of the Bands, setlist creation, and online Band World Tour. What more could 
 a music gamer want? I personally love the game. The addition of chord hammer-ons, the drum solos, 
 and the less strict talking phrases while doing vocals.
  
  While this game is fun to begin with, it is only going to get better. With the weekly downloads 
 scheduled, including one album that has already been released and five more in the future, this 
 game won't get old any time in the near future.
  
  The graphics from the original to the sequel have only minor improvements, but they are still amazing. 
 New film styles during gameplay, including the music video feature that will play every now and 
 then during quickplay, add to the game's fresh new feel from Rock Band 1.
  
  This is the best music game I have played. If you like the first one, you will love this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semiteeny
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  It's still Rock Band, plus sharper graphics, more clothes, more songs, and some very cool new features 
 with the multiplayer. As someone who just moved away from all her friends, it's great to be able 
 to tour with my friends on Live. Nothing too new, but it's still damn fun.
  
  As someone who loves to drum but has no real kit to play on, the drum trainer is awesome not only 
 for improving within the game, but just for gaining some basic coordination. VASTLY helpful.
  
  Leave it to the machine that is Microsoft to make you pay for transferring songs from two games 
 that you already own (making the total they've taken from you.. what, at least 200 dollars already 
 on two games and equipment alone?) , but it's nice to be able to access it all from the snazzy new 
 interface. Don't expect miracles with Rock Band 2, but you'll definitely enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charma
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 improves on the first game by giving players World Tour, Challenges, and Battle of 
 the Bands. World Tour is similar to WBT (world band tour) from RB1, except this time you can play 
 with your friends over Xbox Live.
  
  Being able to form bands online and play with your fellow friends is a big plus this time around. 
 I find that I'm almost playing exclusively with my friends now in our bands instead of just playing 
 by myself, like I did most of the time in RB1.
  
  There are a lot of good songs to play, with even more to come. 20 more songs will be available 
 this fall for free download to compliment the 84 songs included on the disc. You can also export 
 all but three songs from your RB1 disc. Seems like the genre of songs have increased this time 
 around, which is good in my mind. My girl friend still wants to sing that Alanis Morissette song 
 she saw in the play list.
  
  One of the additional play modes are the challenges. Some of the challenges are focused on a particular 
 instrument. There are challenges that require a vocalist, a bassist, or a drummer in your band 
 for example. Also, you get Battle of the Band modes now, which pit your band against your friends 
 bands and other bands.
  
  Some disappointment for me was the discovery that some of the key functionality that I loved in 
 the original Rock Band was removed. No longer is it easy to see your score and the level at which 
 you performed a song. You play a song on the quick play list and all that is stored is a score. 
 There is no indication of whether it was a 3-star, 4-star, or a gold-star rating exists. In Rock 
 Band I loved trying to always improve on my playing ability. I would go through my list of songs 
 in solo tour and see which 4-star songs I could turn into 5 stars. Well, in Rock Band the stars 
 aren't displayed. When you see a score it's hard to tell what rating that score has.
  
  I'm hoping in the near future that Harmonix will release a patch that addresses some of these major 
 issues. Removing some key functionality that almost everyone relies on seems questionable.
  
  Overall, if you love Rock Band you will undoubtedly love the sequel. The additional songs - 
 100+ songs for $60 is a deal. World Tour with its online features is the icing on the cake, and 
 it's done well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 packs a few new features, World Tour Mode, new songs, new stuff. Thats it! Time to 
 pay sixty dollars for the same expierence! It's fun to play a new set of songs, but some songs 
 are very weak and boring to play. If you want to play Rock Band with a fresh new coat of paint, 
 this is the place for you but there is nothing beyond that. If you dont have the first Rock Band 
 and your debating on which one to get, Rock Band 2 is a slightly better option. You may want to 
 wait for Guitar Hero 4 however, which boasts new features such as being able to create your own 
 songs, and go online with your band. Only time can tell which will be the better option, but looking 
 at how *well* this game did. I'm pretty sure Guitar Hero 4 wont have any trouble surpassing this 
 title, so again I suggest you wait for Guitar Hero 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude30501
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  This was the game i was hyped up for when the makers said that they promise it to kick butt. But 
 when i heard that i was really excited but from what it turns out to be, Rock Band 2 does not have 
 everything that a sequel makes up to be for those who already bought the original Rock Band.
  
  I advise you to purchase this game, this is an excellent video game that is amazingly fun, 
 yet extra features do not make this such a great sequel but would be a fun game if you dont have 
 Rock Band 1.
  
  This game does include a great amount of songs to play, and free 20 DLC songs and you can export 
 your Rock Band 1 songs to have almost 200 songs, if you care about that, then get Rock Band 2, 
 if not you should wait to purchase guitar hero World Tour with song creation options, awesome drums 
 with cymbals, etc.
  
  Just admit people that Rock Band lost this year, but we can always wait for next year.
  
  But 
 if you havent played Rock Band 1, purchase this game, this game is still amazingly fun and better 
 than Rock Band 1 but is very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  Familiarity is a double-edged sword. On one hand, you will feel that this has all been done before. 
 Same graphics and same gameplay mechanics. Gameplay is mostly the same as you sing, strum or drum 
 your way through a variety of songs, either by yourself or with friends through local or online 
 play. Each instrumentalist follows rhythmic beats on the screen and hitting notes as they match 
 up with their corresponding colors. On the other, you'll be glad it is the same. No extra learning 
 curves or new rules on how to play. Veterans of the original Rock Band (RB) will be glad to know 
 that getting into a song is quick. Besides, the familiarity ends with new songs. Just because the 
 game is similar to its prequel, however, doesn't mean there's nothing new. The disc contains 84 
 songs, with a code to download 20 additional songs in the future. If you're an oldie rocker, you'll 
 swoon over AC/DC's "Let There Be Rock" and "Rock'n Me." If you prefer something more contemporary, 
 Modest Mouse's "Float On" and Linkin Park's "One Step Closer" should please you. 
  
  Veterans will also welcome the ease of starting a quick local multiplayer session. No more accidental 
 screen transitions because of shifty players who love feeling the tactile buttons on their instruments.
 
  
  Rock Band 2 (RB2) has also become even more party friendly, especially to newcomers. Those who 
 were intimidated or never had the guts to embarrass themselves in the original can now feel at 
 ease. The No-Fail mode now allows people (who know and love their songs) to play with their friends 
 without getting their band kicked off the stage.
  
  One improvement that has been easily overlooked by many reviewers is RB2's song synchronization. 
 In the original, calibrating the instruments to sync up with your TV and sound system was combined 
 under a single adjustment. This is a case where you can hear the song's beats but the video is 
 not synching as well or vice-versa. Now, RB2 separates video and sound into two different calibration 
 systems. One calibration system will have you listen to a beat and strike a note based ONLY on 
 what you hear. On the other system, you are synching your button presses or drum strikes with a 
 video of a metronome moving back and forth without sound. 
  
  This kind of synchronization goes a long way for those who have elaborate home theater setups, 
 especially for those who play their songs at the expert level. Try playing any song on expert between 
 RB1 and RB2. You will see the difference. This sychronization trickles down to the other gameplay 
 levels and makes the experience more enjoyable.
  
  RB2 also offers a quickie version of this by allowing allowing the instruments to auto-calibrate 
 via the instrument's microphone. Cool stuff. 
  
  From a single-player standpoint, RB2 is much more fast-paced in touring cities. RB2 has accomodated 
 veteran players in a better way. Accessing more songs and cities is no longer a tedious experience 
 of beating a number of songs but by how well you mastered each song. Mastering the first few songs 
 gives you fans. The more stars you earn the more fans you get. The number of fans determines which 
 songs and cities get unlocked along with extra goodies like cash and clothing. Beating the first 
 few songs like "Eye Of The Tiger - Expert" with 5 stars will get you noticed and touring around 
 the nation quickly.
  
  Battle of the Bands mode, which lets two bands go head-to-head is a nice new option but it's setup 
 mostly for online play. It's great as long as you know the people you are playing with. It would've 
 been nice to see Battle of the Bands work in parties where two groups of people can go head-to-head 
 on a agreed setlist and try to beat each others score but alas this works well for many of those 
 who play RB often on Xbox Live.
  
  RB2 has several new additions and features that keep the same gamplay fresh and new such as the 
 Breakneck Speed Mode or the Drum Fill Trainer. However, even with all these nice features, it all 
 comes down to the songs and RB2 arguably has a strong list of tracks to start with. If you have 
 RB1 and a good number of downloaded tracks, you and your party can have hours of fun. 
  
  RB2 is a party game at its core and although the gameplay remains largely the same, the downloaded 
 songs, mystery setlists and challenges make it a great game that can last well into year... that 
 is of course until Rock Band 3 comes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_X_ploit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  Rock Band was a great game... I can't think of a game that I can have more fun with on a Friday 
 night with my friends.
  
  Rock Band 2 is pretty much the same game, with different songs, and without any of the problems 
 I had with the first game.
  
  So basically, with simple common sense... Harmonix has made a great game, better. How can anyone 
 complain about that. If Harmonix was to "reinvent the wheel" they would be taking a huge, and uneccesary 
 risk.
  
  I have also seen it mentioned that some of the songs are not fun to play. My response to that would 
 be that someone else would say the same thing, but about the songs that another person loves. Harmonix 
 picked a variety of music, from several Rock Sub Genres to appeal to a broad demographic. This 
 makes total sense. I would say that easily 85-90% of the songs are very enjoyable to me, and the 
 other 10-15% are enjoyable to the other people I typically play with.
  
  So all in all... Great job Harmonix... and BRING BACK JUKEBOX MODE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elby322
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  RB2 is a great game and very user-friendly if you owned the first game. Graphics are a little better. 
 Solo World Tour mode is a lot better than the stupid single play mode in RB1. My major complaint 
 would be the length of songs. Sometimes when playing with friends (especially newbs) a six-minute 
 song is just too long. Why didn't they just include a mode that has shortened songs? When people 
 are waiting for their turn, six minutes is a long time to wait. Otherwise it's a fun game. I like 
 the variety of songs that they included, but some of the songs are a bit questionable because they 
 aren't famous. Nobody wants to sing to a song that they've never heard before. I guess they will 
 keep the most famous songs of bands for downloadable content to make a few more bucks. RB2 is a 
 great game, but it somehow feels that I played $60 just to download 80 new songs into the RB1. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix has graced our existence with the release of Rock Band 2. Rock Band 2continues the saga 
 of allowing you to create a band and rock the world, just as you did with Rock Band. In fact, there 
 are very few minor changes, and even less major changes between the two games.
  It really surprised me how much a couple of changes can make an already great game even better. 
 Some of the more subtle changes include an increase of character customizations. There are more 
 clothes, tattoos, and facial/hair styles to choose from. Minor graphic upgrades are also slightly 
 noticeable. Some of the bigger changes, such as the removal of a band leader and added gameplay 
 modes can easily make a person rock out with even more enjoyment when playing Rock Band 2. Even 
 with these changes, a big fan of the series might have some trouble seeing a big difference between 
 the two games.
  The game comes shipped with 80 tracks, and Harmonix promises that another 20 will be free within 
 the first few weeks of its release. Below is a list of the songs available on the game disc:
  
  "Ace of Spades" -- Motrhead
  "Everlong" -- Foo Fighters
  "Pinball Wizard" -- The Who
 
  "Panic Attack" -- Dream Theater
  "Any Way You Want It" -- Journey
  "Chop Suey" -- System of a Down
  "Kids in America" -- The Muffs
  "Give It Away" -- Red Hot 
 Chili Peppers
  "Hello There" -- Cheap Trick
  "Pump It Up" -- Elvis Costello
  "Almost Easy" -- Avenged Sevenfold
  "Bad Reputation" -- Joan Jett
  "I Was Wrong" -- Social 
 Distortion
  "Livin' on a Prayer" -- Bon Jovi
  "Rock 'N Me" -- Steve Miller Band
  "Testify" -- Rage Against The Machine
  "White Wedding Pt. I" -- Billy Idol
  "Shackler's Revenge" 
 -- Guns N' Roses
  "Let There Be Rock" -- AC/DC
  "Girl's Not Grey" -- AFI
  "You Oughta Know" -- Alanis Morisette
  "Man in the Box" -- Alice in Chains
  "Ramblin' Man" 
 -- Allman Brothers
  "Shooting Star" -- Bad Company
  "So Whatcha Want" -- Beastie Boys
  "E-Pro" -- Beck
  "Rebel Girl" -- Bikini Kill
  "One Way or Another" -- Blondie
  "Tangled Up 
 in Blue" -- Bob Dylan
  "Uncontrollable Urge" -- Devo
  "Feel The Pain" -- Dinosaur Jr.
  "Down With the Sickness" -- Disturbed
  "Hungry Like The Wolf" -- Duran Duran
  "Go Your Own 
 Way" -- Fleetwood Mac
  "PDA" -- Interpol
  "Mountain Song" -- Jane's Addiction
  "Aqualung" -- Jethro Tull
  "The Middle" -- Jimmy Eat World
  "Painkiller" -- Judas Priest
 
  "Carry On Wayward Son" -- Kansas
  "Pretend We're Dead" -- L7
  "Our Truth" -- Lacuna Coil
  "One Step Closer" -- Linkin Park
  "My Own Worst Enemy" -- Lit
 
  "De-Luxe" -- Lush
  "Colony of Birchmen" -- Mastodon
  "Peace Sells" -- Megadeth
  "Battery" -- Metallica
  "Where'd You Go" -- Mighty Mighty Bosstones
  "Float On" -- Modest Mouse
 
  "Drain You" -- Nirvana
  "Spirit in the Sky" -- Norman Greenbaum
  "Nine in the Afternoon" -- Panic! At The Disco
  "That's What You Get" -- Paramore
  "Alive" 
 -- Pearl Jam
  "Lump" -- President's of the USA
  "Round & Round" -- Ratt
  "Give It All" -- Rise Against
  "The Trees" -- Rush
  "Lazy Eye" -- Silversun Pickups
  "Today" 
 -- Smashing Pumpkins
  "Teen Age Riot" -- Sonic Youth
  "Spoonman" -- Soundgarden
  "Cool For Cats" -- Squeeze
  "Bodhisattva" -- Steely Dan
  "Eye of the Tiger" -- Survivor
  
 "Psycho Killer" -- Talking Heads
  "Master Exploder" -- Tenacious D
  "Souls of Black" -- Testament
  "New Kid in School" -- The Donnas
  "We Got The Beat" -- The 
 Go Go's
  "Alabama Getaway" -- The Grateful Dead
  "American Woman" -- The Guess Who
  "Come Out & Play (Keep 'Em Separated) " -- The Offspring
  "Alex Chilton" -- The Replacements
 
  
  Bonus Songs
  "Visions" -- Abnormality
  "Get Clean" -- Anarchy Club
  "Night Lies" -- Bang Camaro
  "Shoulder to the Plow" -- Breaking Wheel
  "Neighborhood" -- The 
 Libyans
  "A Jagged Gorgeous Winter" -- The Main Drag
  "Conventional Lover" -- Speck
  "Supreme Girl" -- The Sterns
  "Rob the Prez-O-Dent" -- That Handsome Devil
  
  Also, right 
 now there are 282 songs that can be purchased online. The list includes almost all the songs that 
 were available for Rock Band, and more are being added almost weekly. Speaking of Rock Band songs, 
 if you still have your Rock Band disc, and 400 MS points ($5) you can import all the on-disc songs 
 from Rock Band to your memory unit to play on Rock Band 2. This option gives you an enormous library 
 of song to rock out to!
  Another big change to the game play is the added "special venues". In these special events, you 
 will randomly be given options to play at charity events, where you don't receive any cash, but 
 instead receive many more fans for doing it. There are also events where you play for private parties 
 and the more "high society" croud, where you receive less fans, but much more money. You also have 
 the option to not do these events, but there really isn't a reason to turn them down. For the younger, 
 or more inexperienced crowd, there is also an option added called the "No Fail" mode. With this 
 mode, the song doesn't end no matter how poorly you play. This makes the game enjoyable to anyone 
 that wants the feeling of rocking out in front of a crowd. There is also the drum trainer that 
 helps you learn how to jam out on the drum set. There is even a freeform drum selection that will 
 let you jam out to songs that you have saved onto your consoles hard drive. But don't think that 
 with a "No Fail" mode that Harmonix has went soft, the overall challenge is even more difficult 
 than the first, so you may find expert to mean it even more than before. 
  The online play is even more seamless than it was before, and its also easier to find a band playing 
 a song that you want to play. There are added contest that make it even more fun than Rock Band, 
 which is hard to believe since it was near-perfect to begin with. The load time seems to be quicker 
 as well, though that could be due to internet connections and server speed.
  As far as the instruments are concerned, I have got the privilege of playing the new and improved 
 guitar and drum kit. If you are happy with the instruments that you already have, then I don't 
 see a need to shell out bucks for the new ones. Of course, if you are unhappy with the jello-like 
 feel of the strum bar, or tired of waking the neighbors with the loudness that comes with pounding 
 on the drum heads, then you will find the new instruments to be just what you are looking for. 
 There is also a feature on the new drum kit for cymbals to add later, though no information has 
 been released at the time of this writing. Oh yeah did I mention they are both wireless too. You 
 can also purchase the instruments separately, with the wireless guitar costing you $69.99, and 
 the wireless drum kit running at $89.99. 
  Of course, the game is not perfect, but it's damn near. There is not a clear way of unlocking new 
 songs, and you will notice the occasional repeat of songs throughout the game, which can become 
 frustrating when you are given a song you dislike to play again and again. The story is almost 
 the same, and the venues have not changed at all. They even appear the same.
  
  Final verdict: I can't think of a reason for anyone not to get this game. It's a fun game that 
 can be enjoyed either solo or with a room full of friends and family. And if you are already a 
 fan of Rock Band, then Rock Band 2 is a must have for your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: barilli71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  So after being there when the gate was lifted at my local Gamestop store Sunday morning to pick 
 up my reserved copy of Rock Band 2, it was only a matter of minutes before I was taking heat from 
 my wife about the fact that I'm almost 40 yrs old and was all excited about a video game. 
  Rock Band 2 had a lot to offer right from the start when I was customizing my character, name & 
 coming up with a band name. That was fun - seemed kinda corny, but fun.
  Next, I jumped right into a tour, no clowning around, lets get into it !!!
  I'd have to say, 
 my first run on the game, which lasted about 6 hours before I realized I had missed the Giants 
 game (they killed St Louis btw) that it is very addicting, especially in tour mode. As excited 
 I was with the batch of new tunes to play thru, I was also excited to see how many fans I earned 
 after each show. I really like how when I would choose to play a mystery set of 2, 3, or 4 songs, 
 that the game would randomly choose songs that I had downloaded for the 1st Rock Band game. 
  The other thing I liked was when randomly a task would pop up for the next show - for example - 
 there was a college student that wanted to shoot a music video for one of her classes in a 60's 
 retro theme, I accepted it and played the next song, which was really psycidellic with the lighting 
 and everything. Other stuff pops once in a while, private parties, DVD shoots, etc. Some of these 
 tasks will earn you triple fans, but no money, or vice versa. Some times it's all or nothing as 
 you have to get 5 stars to succeed, or loose triple fans or money.
  I got on for another 5 hours yesterday, advancing further in to the game, unlocking more venues, 
 cities & songs. 
  One thing I really like about this edition is the ability to switch from guitar to bass without 
 having to start a new tour. Some songs have killer bass parts so I'll opt to play the bass over 
 the guitar at times. 
  I haven't done too much in the singing, except singing along with the song as I play, which drives 
 my wife nuts as I am no where near American Idol material. I've played drums for real for over 
 30 yrs, but am not a fan of playing the drums on the game which surprises most people. 
  Over all - I am very pleased with Rock Band 2, some magazines and called it Rock Band 1.5, which 
 is kinda funny in my opinion. I just have to find out how to transfer the original songs to be 
 able to play them on the new game. I really miss Coheed & Cambria's 'Welcome Home' tune. 
  One thing that will be nice is that with the original Rock Band, I never got the chance to get 
 together with other people to play as a band, other than the occassional trip to hang with my cousin, 
 but now we can hook up via Xbox Live and play together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagnozzi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  With Rock Band being such a success I thought it would be nearly impossible for Rock Band 2 to 
 deliver some thing better then the first. 
  
  Rock Band 2 offers more customization, more great songs, and an improved Tour Mode. The Battle 
 of the Bands mode is incredible - it allows your band to face off against other bands around the 
 world - almost like participating in a real Battle of the Bands event. 
  
  Although the game play is almost identical to the previous Rock Band, it still works. They must 
 have went by the rule - if it's not broke, don't fix it. 
  
  I am impressed with the songs, the download content, and the new Tour Mode. This is the ultimate 
 party game. There are songs for every one, ranging from classic rock to new rock, hair metal to 
 heavy metal, and so forth. 
  
  If you want a game that really makes you feel like a musician, this is the game. Although I wish 
 Rock Band would have used the 'create your own song' feature, it is still a must have game. 
  
  The great thing is - if you already own Rock Band, you don't need to get any new guitars, drums, 
 or a new mic as they are compatible with one another. Plus, you can take your downloaded songs 
 from Rock Band and transfer them to Rock Band 2. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfOldSkool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  "For a more detailed background I suggest reading Gamespot's previews among other information pertaining 
 to this title as my reviews are geared more to gamers who pretty much already know the gist of 
 the game and just want to look into other perspectives on the positives and negatives of the game 
 in question. When it comes to reviews in general I do not believe that any one opinion or rating 
 of any single person or organization is the be all and end all judgment of any given game, instead 
 I feel they should be sifted through in moderation and simply be used as a starting point.. not 
 a concrete outlook that might skew any reader's own unique gaming experience if/when they decide 
 to try the game for themselves. That's why I consider my reviews to be closer to simple recommendations 
 based on my own experience alone (devoid of reading other opinions beforehand, only my ending statement 
 discusses possible outside perspectives) .. and me just enjoying the game for what it is and not 
 overanalyzing just for sake of being critical. Basically, I call it how I see it without an agenda 
 behind it.."
  
  Intro - Let's cut right to the chase.. if your going into Rock Band 2 expecting any major changes 
 to the RB formula your going to be disappointed. BUT that doesn't necessarily mean that Rock Band 
 2 is not an absolute must buy for any fan of music games. 
  
  
  Positives - Consider RB 2 to be the ultimate refinement of the original Rock Band experience.. 
 the menu screens, song store, and player modes are far more streamlined and more enjoyable to use. 
 The solo tour has indeed been scrapped.. but it won't be missed due to finally being able to play 
 tour mode with a single musician. On top of that, the varying degrees of challenges and better 
 implementation of downloaded tracks further enhance the tour mode as a whole. 
  
  The new song store is a far prettier version of the Rock Band section of XBOX Live. Players are 
 now able to filter tracks into new releases, singles and albums.. not to mention are able to view 
 album art and preview the song before downloads making the entire track purchasing process more 
 appealing. 
  
  Lastly, the biggest refinement concerns online play. Between being able to enter top scores in 
 various "Battle of the Bands" online competitions to being able to mix and match others players 
 into an online tour mode.. the most glaring deficiency of the original game has been improved upon.
 
  
  
  Negatives - In terms of new player and instrument customization options.. RB 2 leaves plenty to 
 be desired. Besides a handful of new band animations, lighting effects and stages.. don't expect 
 anything drastically different this time around.
  
  
  Overall - Harmonix took their big risk "last" year with the original.. so in my opinion, a game 
 with the scope of the Rock Band franchise is allowed an iteration to clean up some loose ends. 
 At the end of the day.. I don't really understand what naysayers were really expecting to have 
 changed so suddenly (especially in this genre) .. between it being less than a year after the original 
 and obviously it being only the second iteration of the series.. critics should really wait until 
 RB 3 to have a stroke about the lack of any radically new updates. As it stands right now.. the 
 Guitar Hero franchise with World Tour is the one that needs to prove itself.
  
  As I mentioned, it's "Rock band 2" NOT "Rock band 3".. the heat will be on Harmonix to come up 
 with some new goodies next time around, but they have earned some slack for bringing the genre 
 to were it is today in a span of only a year. Bottomline.. the vastly improved interface, the far 
 superior and immense downloadable RB track library (500-range as of the holiday season, all current 
 & future RB game compatibility to boot) and fun online play is more than suffice for any fan of 
 the genre until next year. Simply put.. Rock Band 2 is the best musical instrument game to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spunkyspikemj
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I am extremely dissapointed with the song list. Rock Band 1 had songs I didn't like but they were 
 still fun to play. Most of these songs I did not find fun. What makes it worse is just like RB1 
 to get to some of the funner songs you have to play the really bad ones quite a few times. The 
 game made me want to throw up! There are some good songs and not too much has changed with the 
 formula of the game. It looks and feels the same as the first game. I like the heavier music so 
 I was glad to see Metallica and Megadeth. I still had trouble getting my overdrive to work. Sometimes 
 it would work first try but other times I would sit there tilting the guitar and trying to get 
 it to work but to no prevail. If your a fan of the first game and don't mind playing some bad tunes 
 then I would say get the game. All I can say is I'm glad for DLC!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud878
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Alright, lets get things started. The morning of Sunday I picked up my copy of Rock Band 2. I love 
 it obviously. While their are no big changes made, the phrase "If it aint broke don't fix it" pretty 
 much comes to mind. Harmonix decided to fix all the big complaints and keep the rest the same.
 
  
  Before I name the big fixes, I'd like to say how wonderful the setlist is. It comes with 84 songs. 
 I personally liked over half of the setlist, may I also remind you that all of your downloaded 
 songs are transferred over, plus for an extra $5, all of the original rock band songs. At the end 
 of the night my Rock Band was packed with 187 songs... sorta.
  
  One flaw is how you unlock the songs. Unlock the previous title, they decided to ditch the main 
 solo tour and combine it with band tour mode. While I found that to be an improvement, it definitely 
 messed up the easy organized way of playing songs like the previous title. You can't simply play 
 them all in order and unlock them, you have to encounter them along the way, which is my only major 
 gripe.
  
  On to the positives. The band leader has been ditched happily. There is no longer a need to start 
 a whole band over if you get in a big fight with a buddy or something. Another welcome change is 
 the addition of an online tour mode. Although this doesn't really affect me because it's sort of 
 boring when you can't see the person, to many this is a great addition.
  
  The graphics on the game are pretty much the same as previous beyond maybe being a little smoother. 
 Characters still look weird and the colors are still flashy. 
  
  Overall I love this game. It's very similar to the first game but with enough great improvements 
 and songs that it is worth the full price tag. Pick up a copy of Rock Band 2. You won't be sorry!
 
  
  Note: I did not by the whole pack so I can not judge the equipment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rally666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  Rock Band 1.5, I mean Rock Band 2 hit the shelves Sunday morning, with no accompanying hardware. 
 So we pulled out the old beat up drums, 2 Guitar Hero Les Pauls and hit off the Tour.
  
  Song porting was easy, but no porting of bands or characters, so remake all our charaters, come 
 up with a new band name.
  
  Songs, played up to the showcase where we got to play "Let There Be Rock". Overall impression of 
 songs, some of them sound so flat it's crazy. Older songs especially sound like crap, "White Wedding", 
 "Spirit In The Sky", "Pinball Wizard" etc. Otherwise loving the song list, no real difficulty, 
 this far, a couple challenging songs, and some real snoozers.
  
  New goofy achievements and bonus things like video shoots, play with not overdrive etc, add a little 
 variety. 
  
  Improvements in the band layout, taking out the band leader issue, not having to create multiple 
 charaters for each different instrument. So nice improvements, nice content, but really no innovation.
 
  
  Can only hope the hardware is an improvement over the craptastic drums and guitars from the first 
 iteration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  The Good: The best setlist of any music game ever, online band world tour, the ability to play 
 world tour solo and to use same character for different instruments, disc import of most Rock Band 
 1 songs and all DLC, more variety of random events in world tour, added options to character creator, 
 more venues, harder songs, Battle of the Bands challenges, drum solos and a drum trainer.
  
  The Bad: No option to import Rock Band 1 characters, not that much different from last year.
 
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Last year, Rock Band reinvented the music game genre with it's band forming multiplayer experience 
 in addition to offering new songs every week to those willing to pay for them. Now, along comes 
 Rock Band 2 which may not be as dramatic of an improvement as you might think, but it does give 
 Rock Band fans another reason for a reunion tour. 
  
  First off, the setlist for Rock Band 2 is by far the best of any music game ever. I would like 
 to bet that you'll find at least 5 songs that you love and a bunch more that you like to play. 
 In addition to the fantastic on disc setlist, all of your original Rock Band downloads are compatable, 
 so you can still rock out to Still Alive or your Metallica pack. To further expand the setlist, 
 if you still have your Rock Band 1 disc, you can export most of the songs from your Rock Band 1 
 disc onto your hard drive for use in Rock band 2 for 400 M$ points. Aside from "Run to the Hills", 
 "Enter Sandman" and "Paranoid". everything is playable in the new game. This feature is revolutionary 
 becuase it is the first time where a music game sequel can use the on disc tracks from the original 
 game. I assume this feature will continue with the next Rock Band, whenever that will be. By the 
 end of 2008, Harmonix promises that over 500 songs will be available for the game, including 20 
 free songs avaliable at a later date. 
  
  The biggest improvement in the gameplay is the Band World Tour. The big feature is now you can 
 start a band online and play with friends from around the globe. Don't like having a band leader 
 who has to be in the band? Well the band leaders are now a thing of the past and any character 
 can be used for any instrument, so your awesome guitarist can pick up drums if he wants to.
  There are several new cities and venues to check out on the World Tour as well as new random events, 
 such as a music video shoot or proving to a snobby reviewer that you don't need no stinking star 
 power. You also have online challenges that change every day, so you will never find the same challenges 
 every time you log in. These challenges add even more depth to an already extremely deep game mode.
 
  
  Speaking of challenges, the Battle of the Bands challenges are a quite enjoyable addition as well. 
 In these challenges, you are given a set and have to beat another band who already played the challenge. 
 These can be quite fun because you have to give it your all in order to top some of these bands. 
 
  
  One of the big complaints from Guitar Hero fans about the original Rock Band was that it wasn't 
 hard enough. Rock Band 2 features some wicked tough songs for the most experienced expert players 
 such as tunes from Steely Dan, Dream Theater and the baddest of the bad, "Painkiller" by Judas 
 Priest. 
  
  To be honest, I had to stretch to find anything wrong with this game. The only things I could think 
 of were that first, you can't import your character from the first game. That would be a welcome 
 addition perhaps for the eventual Rock Band 3 and second, the gameplay remains pretty much unchanged. 
 There are a few changes such as the inclusion of drum solos in the gameplay, and a drum trainer 
 so you can learn how to play real drums in the game, but not much else is any different. 
  
  Overall, Rock Band 2 is a stellar sequel to an already stellar game. If you like any music 
 game at all, you owe it to yourself to pick up this game. The instruments don't release for a little 
 while, but when they do, I'll leave impressions. 
  
  Gameplay: There isn't that much different, but the additions to the world tour and other gameplay 
 modifications make Rock Band 2 the best music game yet.
  
  Graphics: Remain pretty much unchanged, although there are some new effects.
  
  Sound: This 
 has the best on disc setlist ever and with the abiliy to use all DLC and Rock Band songs, this 
 game has the most expansive amount of songs to date of any music game.
  
  Value: Trust me, this is $60 well spent if you are a fan. $170 if you want the bundle in October.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: "Hello there ladies and gentlemen. Are you ready to rock?"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubleofive
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  $60 for 86 more songs for Rock Band is already a good deal. Add the fact that they have fixed every 
 problem and added everything suggested to the game modes means that they have expanded and perfected 
 this game at every turn.
  
  Some may decry the lack of a music making feature, but (A) how often would you use that and (B) 
 how well could you make a song that isn't licensed that people would be interested to play?
  
  Another thing that Guitar Hero World Tour has that is supposed to be an attractant is not only 
 having licensed tracks, but licensed characters. You can't play as Ozzy, Sting, or anyone else 
 but characters you create in Rock Band 2, and you know what, I like it that way. The point of these 
 games (to me) is to be in a band as yourself and your friends.
  
  The "no fail" mode is great for parties when you just have people over who have never picked up 
 a guitar controller and will allow me to try out harder difficulties without having to restart 
 the song every minute or so.
  
  So in the end, Rock Band 2 doesn't change everything about Rock Band and seems more like Rock Band 
 1.5 or something, but that's all Rock Band needed. Just a boost into true greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limafoxtrot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Seeing how there wasn't a lot wrong with Rock Band, I was curious what would happen for Rock Band 
 2. By and large its all good steps forward.
  
  Biggest change is with the World Tour - you can now do it solo and the single player progression 
 of Rock Band past and GH series seems to be gone. Even better you can now form a band online and 
 do the World Tour on LIVE. A great addition!
  
  A huge new 80+ song track list helps, and all the old tunes you may have from RB1 work fine with 
 no effort for DLC and only the transfer to do in RB1.
  
  Game play remains in tact and as solid as ever. There does seem to be a nod toward the party aspect 
 of the game. It is much faster to just playing with 4 friends on a machine and rock - with fewer 
 menus and more flexible characters that can play any instrument. "No fail mode" also does wonders 
 for trying to keep the family playing the whole song (or less experienced party guests) .
  
  The one area that seems to have gotten little attention is the character creation and customization. 
 This largely feels the same with a few more hair styles and outfits - but mostly the same options 
 you had in RB1.
  
  All and all, a great step forward for the series. They added to a already great game and made it 
 better without screwing anything up (talking to you GHIII) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrackerRiley023
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  There were only a few noticeable visual changes, but as long as the gameplay is solid, I'm happy. 
 I'm very happy to be able to play the world tour mode by myself. With the ability to play all your 
 DLC and Rock Band 1 songs for some set lists, it makes for a ton of variety. You aren't playing 
 the same songs over and over again. I played for at least 6 hours the first day I got it and have 
 only unlocked about half of the on-disc RB2 songs though. The ability to let your character play 
 any instrument is a great thing! I played drums in my solo tour for most of the night, then when 
 I got tired of that I just switched over to guitar with no problem. Keeping my number of stars 
 and fans.
  Drum trainer is fantastic. If only they had that in the first one, I would have gotten better at 
 drums much quicker. The challenge to get the achievements for the drum trainer are fun too. Alright, 
 I've said enough, buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoodkid12
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Got the last copy at Best Buy today (ha!) and played with my brother as soon as i got home. Before 
 i had to go to my stupid job, my brother and I had already started our rivalry. Many songs on the 
 setlist are sure to be an instant classic when your friends come over. I am having more fun with 
 this game than i did with Rock Band! Get this and forget Guitar Hero World Tour. I started with 
 the G. H. franchise but i am in no way excited about that setlist. & as soon as i get back online 
 (long story) i will play this game even harder!
  
  Got the last copy at Best Buy today (ha!) and played with my brother as soon as i got home. Before 
 i had to go to my stupid job, my brother and I had already started our rivalry. Many songs on the 
 setlist are sure to be an instant classic when your friends come over. I am having more fun with 
 this game than i did with Rock Band! Get this and forget Guitar Hero World Tour. I started with 
 the G. H. franchise but i am in no way excited about that setlist. & as soon as i get back online 
 (long story) i will play this game even harder!
  
  didnt feel like typing 800 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I want to start my review by saying that the rockband franchise has become one of my all time favorites. 
 I was skeptical at first. I was so programmed for Guitar Hero allegiance that I didn't want to 
 step outside of that to try anything new. Less than a year after rockband debuted, I can honestly 
 say that I haven't touched anything Guitar Hero for more than a brief stint just to get some achievements 
 since.
  
  That said, Rockband 2 launch day has come and gone, and like all of my friends, I went out first 
 thing and got my copy. I spent all day playing. I tried the new challenges. I tried the online 
 battle modes. I tried the online tour with my friends. All I can say is that everything you wish 
 you had in Rockband has finally been given to you, even if the familiarity makes it seem like an 
 update rather than a true sequel. 
  
  They didn't re-invent the game. They didn't need to. RB was almost perfect the way it was, and 
 now that they've added online tour, the ability to participate in tour mode by yourself if you 
 choose, backwards compatibility with RB DLC and originals (for a small fee, of course) they hit 
 the ball out of the park with this one. I played for about 10 hours today, I didn't want to stop, 
 but my hands and my eyes simply couldn't take any more. This game is addictive, it's a great way 
 to bond with your kids if you have them, and it's best when you have some friends to play along 
 with. Great multi-player, great challenges, great setlist, great game. Buy it as soon as you can. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeEatBrain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  The rumors are true, Rock Band 2 is remarkably similar to it's older counterpart. If you were expecting 
 something different... well, there's no reason you should have been expecting something different. 
 When a company makes the greatest rythym game ever, they don't really need to veer too far off 
 the track. Gameplay was never broken, so there was no need to fix it. Create-a-character was fine, 
 so take the same stuff, add to it, I couldn't be happier. Now here's what makes this game head 
 and shoulders above the previous entry, it's almost completely geared toward multi player. I was 
 playing it with my wife all day, and she asked me if I liked playing (the game) with her or if 
 I liked playing (the game) with myself better. Well, we had been playing for several hours, and 
 I answered honestly, I liked playing the first one myself more because it was easier to unlock 
 things and get (most of) the achievements myself, so the multi player was just kind of an extra 
 thing. This one band mates can drop in and out whenever, and the whole thing unfolds the same way. 
 It's exactly what a "party game" should be. And with my RB songs now on my hard drive, I see no 
 reason to ever put the first disc in again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N9ne-xx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  New song-list, and sort of a bit new look.
  
  The intro let's start off is kind of a.. throw off, especially when you got a guy with no shirt 
 with a ball attached to a chain trying to get into 2 cars... So yeah anyway.
  
  Band world-tour is back and im liking the new venues, especially Montreal, because you know; It's 
 Canadian. but there's other interesting places.
  
  The song-list for the sequel is good which makes this game and puts it in a 8.5. Reason being is 
 because it's pretty much the same thing, just with a whole new-set list.
  
  Some features like battle of the bands isn't really big, because honestly; we all saw it coming. 
 But they pulled something in there arsenal and created challanges which I really like seeing right 
 now.
  
  Character creation is the same and so much is most of it. But why fix something that's already 
 broken right?
  So rockband 2, deserves the 8.5 maybe leaning into a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiNut6493
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 expands on Rock Band 1. No its not the same game with New Songs its more than that. 
 The Graphics have been revamped and the Notes are now brighter and easier to hit. The gameplay 
 is the same though which is the only thing other than the way they re-did the FX switch that bugs 
 me. If you liked RB1 You will love RB2! Oh the other thing that is great is the ability to play 
 all of your old DLC and old songs from RB1 on RB2. I think that this holiday season Guitar hero 
 World Tour will have some competion. Rock Revoulution has no chance trying to compete with a juggernaut 
 like RB and GH. So my advice for anyone who is a fan of Rock Band or has always wanted to play 
 it, GET ROCK BAND 2!!! you really cant go wrong with this game unless you only have 2 fingers. 
 Well i realy cant think of much else to say about this game other than its great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCSpartan017
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I don't get why people are b**chin about how RB2 is the same to RB1, Rock Band is all about the 
 music, not graphics. Besides you are getting 84 songs from much less than a dollar a piece, compared 
 to the DLC which is an average so $2 a song so just shut up your whining and play. The game play 
 is amazing. Plus when you buy the game your get 20 free DLC songs, so that makes the price per 
 songs around .50 a song. Get over the graphics. DONT CHANGE A THING HARMONIX, keep coming out with 
 these amazing songs and games.
  
  I give this game a perfect 10/10 because Rock Band has taken the throne from Guitar Hero even though 
 they had a head-start. World Tour is not even going to compare. The cartoony look of Guitar Hero 
 is a major turn-off in my mind.
  
  Keep up the good work. Hope to see more amazing DLC in the weeks to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Pretty Much everything in this game was from Rock Band 1, just different songs (and not as good 
 ones as GHWT will have later on) and why do they always have songs from other games that have come 
 out already and ones that are going to be on Gh4? Its pretty much like an expansion pack for your 
 old one, even though you can put all your RB1 songs and put them in your RB2. What makes it a 8.5 
 though for me is that its still a music game, right? Its still fun to play all the new songs, and 
 finally there is a new drum game out. Ive been getting bored with all the ones on RB for drums 
 (its really easy) But everything is the same. The graphics, the notes that come down, the overdrive 
 or star power, the customization is practically the same too, and even the new instruments are 
 the same! The Guitar is exactly like the other one, just burgundy? The drum kit and the microphone 
 are too, though the drum set is a little quieter. Though this game may feel like an expansion pack, 
 its has hundreds of new songs for you to play 4 instruments on, and who can let that slide by? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  *Note: I only play as Guitar/Bass in this game so you won't hear a whole lot about the drums*
 
  
  I'll start off my review with my one gripe about Rock Band 2. At it's core, nothing much has changed. 
 You can forgive it for that since it's only the second game in the series, but like Guitar Hero 
 III, if Rock Band 3 isn't a big step up, there are going to be a lot of mixed reviews about the 
 game. 
  
  Now for the good stuff, Rock Band 2 is just as awesome as Rock Band 1. You'll get that same great 
 social gameplay that is fun almost anytime. 
  
  Changes that have taken place in this version of the game is the fact that there is no single player 
 mode anymore. I say that meaning that there is no solo tour, its nothing but band world tour which 
 you can now play solo instead of it requiring to be multi. And now, you can even take tour mode 
 online. So now you don't have to be constricted to local play all time time as well.
  
  More additions include Tour Challenges and Battle of the Bands. Tour Challenges have you playing 
 certain setlists with usually themed songs. All your DLC tracks will be able to extend and increase 
 the number of challenges. Battle of the Bands is an online mode similar to that of Mario Kart Wii's 
 tournament system. Like in Mario Kart, you're not battling anyone directly, you'll do a certain 
 challenged and upload your score to the online leaderboards. These battles will be updated constantly 
 giving you endless amount of re playability.
  
  The game's set list is exactly what you'd expect from a Harmonix game. You have a perfect mix of 
 classics from bands such as AC/DC to popular newer bands like Avenged Sevenfold. With the addition 
 of 20 free songs on the way, all DLC being forward compatible, and the ability to export 55 of 
 58 Rock Band 1 songs, Rock Band 2 has the biggest set list of any music game ever. 
  
  The game looks great as well. The animations are still top notch and I'm willing to bet Guitar 
 Hero World Tour will still not get their animations as smooth as Rock Band's. The graphics themselves 
 look more of the same but they've added more effects such as lighting. Over all the presentation 
 is just a little bit better thank Rock Band but nothing to write home about. You have to factor 
 in that you're paying for Harmonix's note charts as well. You won't find any needlessly hard charts 
 here like in... OTHER games.
  
  Over all, like I said, Rock Band 2 is a great game, but it's core has not changed from the last. 
 The only things that have changed are the modes. Right now it's easy to let it slide due to the 
 fact that the game was probably rushed. Anyone remember Harmonix saying that Rock Band wasn't going 
 to be a yearly game? I doubt EA was going to have that go down. While Rock Band 2 is worth anyone's 
 money who enjoyed the first one and the Guitar Hero series, the next one is going to have to have 
 some major improvements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  If you liked the 1st one, you will like the second. The only thing I really don't like about this 
 one is you have to play some areas that require you non-stop play of 5 plus songs in a row. When 
 you choose songs to play, you have to play the same songs over and over if you aren't careful you 
 could hear a song 3 times in a small amount of time. The on-line is much improved from part one.... and 
 I really don't know why they didn't get the world tour multiplayer right on part one.... unless 
 they wanted to do that to make money is that EA's way? The other part I have to say I don't agree 
 with is a lot of the songs are not cool... I mean WE GOT THE BEAT are you serious... when you pay 
 the song it really don't look right having a guy sing that one... should have a swap out.... but 
 there are some songs that really aren't fun to play... or the songs just suck in general. Last thing 
 i don't like is to much flashing mixing in with the note giving me a headache. I don't get headaches 
 often, but I mean they have to much lighting around when you have to stare at the notes coming 
 down. 
  The positives... The options are nice, sounds do hit on the right songs, and a mode to speed up 
 the expert to make it faster was a good feature (breakneckspeed) .
  
  It really don't stand out due to being something you have played before... but it is another quick 
 $60 to spend. It should be taken into consideration that a game that has another part come out 
 and part 1 isn't even a year old and they want a full-price ticket to get in kind of hits the score 
 also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandallMoss
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:58 am PT
Review:  Yes, I got the game early. Two days before street date to be exact. In that time, my friends and 
 I have already logged almost 15 hours of gameplay. This game is that fun.
  
  The first Rock Band was great. I was expecting more of the same -- not that it's a bad thing -- 
 but I was blown away from the actual experience. I've found two things that stand out in this game.
 
  
  The first thing I noticed was how precise you could adjust the timing. This helped immensely as 
 we played the game on a DLP projector and home theater receiver, of which both sources can introduce 
 all sorts of latency. With the ability to adjust both video and audio lag, we found the timing 
 to be spot on.
  
  The second thing I noticed was the improved note charts. I love playing bass on expert, and I found 
 the note charts to be a lot more fun, challenging, and most of all satisfying than what I had experienced 
 with the first Rock Band.
  
  Also, I love RB2's track list. While Rock Band had a solid track list, there were only a handful 
 of songs that we would play. In Rock Band 2, pretty much every track is a winner. There's everything 
 from AFI to Beck to Paramore (yes, I love Paramore) to Social D to the Bosstones.
  
  Speaking of the Mighty Mighty Bosstones (yeah, I know, most people hate ska these days, but I grew 
 up listening to them) , I was so excited to see them pop up, but very disappointed when it wasn't 
 Dicky Barrett singing.
  
  Rock Band 2 is a must-have game, especially if you have friends. It brings out the best in everyone. 
 My friend Greg was absolutely positive that he could not sing so he only played guitar. We peer 
 pressured him into singing, and as it turns out, he's actually pretty good. See? Doesn't that just 
 make you feel all fuzzy and warm inside?
  
  My verdict: buy this game and play it immediately. That term paper can wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mokug
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  When you first start the game you notice some of the new features in the game. The beginning video 
 if funny also.
  
  Game has a better online play. A bunch of new songs that players would know, so when it comes to 
 singing you least know some of the words to all these new songs.
  
  And if you played the previous rock band game, or the guitar hero games, you have no trouble picking 
 this up and rocking. The game looks sharper than the first one, and sounds better too.
  
  But the game is more of a party game, by your self can get a little boring, but they tried to make 
 the single player more interesting.
  
  I have not tried the new instruments because i had the previous rock band gear, which is another 
 good thing. they have the new gear out there but you don't have to buy it as long as you have rock 
 band 1 stuff.
  
  I rate it a 10 because the game is all around awesome, so far i have not been disappointing by 
 it yet.
  
  oh and another feature that was a really good idea was bringing the songs from the first rock band 
 into rock band 2. good thinking Harmonix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Just picked it up from my local store
  its very fun its got a few new features in it that you will notice as soon as your turn it on
 
  
  The Songs are a lot better then the original one
  its a lot better sounding and looking then the original one no matter what way you look at it this 
 is way better.
  
  Pretty Similar to Rock Band 1 but bunch of new songs and features added worth getting.
  
  I 
 am finding it very fun on world tour with my bro it seems to be a great addition to the rocking 
 games.
  
  All the new songs have been good so far made it pretty far for the short time I have owned it and 
 seems to be great.
  
  I rate 
  
  Game Play 10/10
  graphics 9/10
  Fun 10/10
  Sound 10/10
  Final Score I rate it is a 9.5 
  
  Very Great game I am really really loving 
 this one
  Can't wait to make it a little farther in this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
