-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rumble Roses XX
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/rumblerosesxx/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A decent bit of variety and strategy in the wrestling.
 Great graphics.
 Online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game's voyeuristic aspects are kind of creepy at times.
 Not enough variety in the costumes and editing functions to make them worthwhile.
 Gameplay becomes predictable after a short time.
 Single-player experience is just kind of confusing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.2, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 1,289 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Mar 28, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rumble Roses XX introduces a few positives into the first game's formula, but most of the content 
 feels recycled, and the game is still rather unseemly. 

  Konami made its first foray into the world of professional wrestling back in late 2004 with Rumble 
 Roses, an all-female grappler for the PlayStation 2 that was developed in tandem with longtime 
 wrestling developer Yuke's. The game was in no way designed to be a simulation wrestling game. 
 The characters represented patently over-the-top caricatures of various sexual fetishes and character 
 archetypes (the naughty schoolgirl, the feisty cowgirl, the S&amp; M slave, and so on) , and the 
 game included some of the most insane storylines and wrestling action you could possibly sit through 
 without having your head literally explode. Ultimately, the semi-creepy vibe and dearth of content 
 sank Rumble Roses, despite its inclusion of a fairly competent wrestling engine and great graphics. 
 The newest Rumble Roses adventure is Rumble Roses XX for the Xbox 360, and with it, Konami has 
 at least addressed a couple of key issues. Gone are the bananas storylines; in is competitive online 
 play. Sadly, the improvements stop there. The gameplay, while still sound, isn't captivating enough 
 to hold your attention for terribly long, and once again, the constant onslaught of schoolboy-grade 
 sexual fantasizing just makes the whole game feel kind of tacky.  

           The ladies of Rumble Roses return for a slightly less silly, and still altogether unwholesome 
 wrestling game in Rumble Roses XX.     

  If you played Rumble Roses on the PS2, you'll be immediately familiar with the characters presented 
 here, because all the same ones are present and there actually aren't any new ones. Like the last 
 game, there are dual versions of each character available, one good and one evil. In addition to 
 that, each good and evil character has a "superstar" version that can be unlocked as you play. 
 The superstar version wrestles similarly to the good or evil version of the character she represents, 
 but with stronger moves and snazzier costumes. As neat as the superstars are, they're still just 
 variations on characters you've already seen multiple versions of. If you take away all the variables, 
 you've really only got 11 unique characters to choose from, and again, they're all the same ones 
 from the PS2 game. That's just lazy.  

  Speaking of laziness, Konami fixed one problem with the original Rumble Roses by axing the feature 
 altogether, rather than trying to improve upon it. Rumble Roses had this ludicrous story mode that 
 had individual storylines for each character. These storylines could be likened to the worst brand 
 of wrestling fan fiction imaginable, with unfathomably bad voice acting. It went from oddly amusing 
 to completely insufferable in a short amount of time. So now there's no story mode at all. Instead 
 of a proper story or career mode, what you get is a completely hands-off brand of single-player 
 experience. You'll boot up and jump right into the game. You'll pick up a character and travel 
 around this map area that shows different fight arenas, your locker room, and modes like exhibition 
 and online play. Once you've got your character, you travel from fight to fight, building up your 
 wrestler's popularity until you eventually get a title match. Of course, you'll pretty much have 
 to figure this out on your own. The game really doesn't provide any tangible feedback about how 
 many matches you're supposed to fight to get a title shot. Even after you've maxed your popularity 
 to the highest level, you don't just get a title shot right off the bat, so you might be a little 
 confused about where you're supposed to go or what you're supposed to do. After all that, you just 
 pick another character, and repeat the whole process over again.  

           Well, maybe less silly isn't a totally accurate description. That is a female ninja riding 
 a giant bullfrog, afterall. Yikes.     

  At the very least, there is more fight variety to be had in Rumble Roses XX. You've got basic singles, 
 tag team, triple threat, handicap, and fatal four-way matches, as well as a few gimmick matches. 
 The queen's match is a standard match with an ending stipulation: The loser will be humiliated 
 in a fashion determined at the beginning of the match by the opponent. These stipulations include 
 such dastardly humiliations as forcing the loser to play a particularly tough game of limbo, pushing 
 the loser into a swimming pool, making him or her dance, or just having the loser pose sexily. 
 Of course, there's no actual work involved in this. Both players just sit back and watch the end 
 result for as long as they can take it without wondering why they aren't doing something better 
 with their time. The other main gimmick match is a street fight that involves punching and slamming 
 opponents until a health meter runs out. This mode feels pretty tacked on, like a cheap way to 
 cash in on the whole hot chicks fighting element from the Dead or Alive games, or something. Not 
 that the whole game isn't probably trying to do that on some level, but the wrestling system just 
 doesn't feel conducive to a typical fighting game experience, thus making it seem out of place. 

  The actual wrestling of Rumble Roses XX remains a relative bright spot, although, like the last 
 game, the simplicity of it eventually makes winning a total breeze. XX uses what is, in essence, 
 a dumbed-down version of the Yuke's SmackDown! engine. As such, there is some strategy to the fights. 
 Reversals are separated out between grapples and strikes, and it's up to you to predict what your 
 opponent is going to hit you with to successfully pull off a reversal. Submissions are separated 
 out by body regions, including head, body, legs, and arms. The more damage you do to one area, 
 the more likely you are to make the opponent tap out. The whole humiliation factor is still present 
 here as well. You'll build an opponent's humiliation meter until it's full by performing certain 
 moves, at which time you can do a humiliation move, which is a more elaborate and slightly silly 
 finishing maneuver.     

  So while there's a decent amount of variety to the action, it all becomes fairly routine and predictable 
 after a couple of hours. Opponent behaviors aren't hard to predict after a few matches, and once 
 you've figured that stuff out, you can win any match that comes your way without much hassle. Online 
 play does remedy this slightly, since fighting against other people is always less predictable 
 than fighting artificially intelligent characters. But the online play itself is neither deep nor 
 especially compelling. You can just hop on, find opponents, and fight. There is a ranking system, 
 and the online matches we played were exceptionally smooth and lag-free. But unless the online 
 competition proves to be heavy and fierce, there isn't an awful lot there to keep you coming back. 

           Dress girls up in skimpy swimsuits, take photos of them, and send them to friends on the 
 internet! We swear it's not softcore porn!     

  Of course, this wouldn't be a Rumble Roses game if XX didn't find a way to make you at least a 
 little bit uncomfortable with its ridiculous method of hypersexualizing the girls of the game, 
 and nowhere is this more apparent than in the edit modes. Similar to DOA Xtreme Beach Volleyball 
 for the Xbox, you can buy unlockable costumes and play dress-up in this mode with the various wrestling 
 babes, including schoolgirl uniforms, barely there swimsuits, and the like. But it doesn't end 
 there. Rumble Roses XX goes the extra mile and lets you adjust muscle tones and body shape too, 
 including the character's breast size. Adding to the creepy factor is the photo shoot mode, where 
 you can take one character (or a pair) , and dress her up, and then instruct her to pose in specific 
 ways while you adjust camera angles and take snapshots. You can then trade those snapshots with 
 people online. While adolescent boys are undoubtedly going to have a field day with this, there's 
 not really enough variety to the outfits or poses to capture anyone's imagination for too long. 

  That vibe permeates the actual wrestling, too. Like the PS2 game, Rumble Roses XX's various moves 
 and animations go as far out of their way as possible to give you all the chances to observe bouncing 
 breasts and exposures of undergarments you could possibly need. Obviously, Rumble Roses XX doesn't 
 take itself very seriously, so all of it is done with a measure of cheekiness (no pun intended) , 
 but believe it or not, even silly levels of perversity can't carry a game by themselves, and very 
 few, if any, of the game's other elements are strong enough on their own to keep you engaged once 
 you've had your fill of panty shots.  

          Limbo Dance with Swimsuit!!!     

  On the PS2, Rumble Roses had very impressive graphics, and on the Xbox 360, the same holds true. 
 In standard definition, the game looks like a significantly cleaner version of the same graphics 
 and art found in the last game, with improved ancillary visuals, like the arenas, crowds, and lighting. 
 In HD, the character model details become much more tangible. Costumes all show off a level of 
 sheen not found in regular definition, skin textures look much more realistic, and some of the, 
 shall we say, "moving" parts of the various ladies just look... well, better. Many of the animation-clipping 
 problems found on the PS2 are gone as well, though not all of them. You'll still see costume pieces, 
 and sometimes entire body parts, clip through one another in spots, but it's not nearly as bad 
 as what you would find in the last game.  

  Rumble Roses XX is a better game than its PS2 predecessor, but there are still too many annoying 
 things about it to make it a success. Again, there isn't a single thing wrong with wanting to put 
 attractive, well-built women in a wrestling game, but Rumble Roses XX insists on taking it to such 
 levels of objectification that it just becomes hard to put up with after awhile. Not to mention 
 that very little else of what the game offers, both from gameplay and feature standpoints, is strong 
 enough to carry the load apart from the whole titillation aspect. In the end, Rumble Roses XX is 
 another merely decent wrestling game that could have been a lot better had the focus been on the 
 gameplay, and not on its more sordid elements.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  I had purchased this game for the ps2 and I really liked it. It was a change of pace from the usual 
 wwe wrestling games. When I found out that it was going to come out for the xbox 360 I was excited. 
 I figured they would make it even better. Now that I have played the game I realized they have 
 made it worse. Ok lets start with the good aspects of this game. The graphics are very good. Amazingly 
 good especially when it comes to watching the ladies shake around. There are curves all over the 
 place. The music is ok and the gameplay is not bad. Now lets get to the bad. There is really no 
 game here. You just pick a character and you fight. There is no season mode or anything. You just 
 fight and build up your popularity. Once you get to 100% you fight get a title match and its over. 
 As you win matches you gain money and with that money you can buy various things. Different wrestling 
 outfits swimsuits and such. To be honest there is not much here to do. Once you have played the 
 game for a bit you realize there is nothing to do. This game gets boring fast and its not really 
 worth a buy. Skip this game unless you can get it very cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rentachimp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  What a horny game this is. Yum yum yum. It's obvious how they could make this better. I don't think 
 it's worthy of an 8, but I want them to make another one. The sexy level is good but, like DOAX2, 
 it just takes too damn long to unlock the sexy, sexy outfits and alter-egos. Plus the fact that 
 there is no storyline and a lot of the music is crummy, and the lyrics are clearly written by a 
 secoond-language english speaker. I'm just filling space, now, but I suppose it would be cool if 
 you didn't have to change out of the Superstar clothes to adjust your Physique. Also, the pin button 
 is the pick up object button which is frustrating as it's hard enough to pick stuff up as it is. 
 When you throw people around outside the ring, they don't collide with the barriers like it Street 
 Fight. Street Fight is very Buggy, too. The camera angles aren't very good in submission mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havik0666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Rumble Rose XX is a wresling game that show not very many potential, that's sad to said because 
 the game could be better than that, I'm sure.
  
  
  The game just looks like a copy of Virtua Fighter with only girls and with wresling, that's cheap. Also, 
 the only good thing they copy was the graphics. I've not much to say about this game, I'm really 
 disapoint of it....
  
  I was waiting for more (or maybe to much)
  
  So here the checklist :
  
  Gameplay : 7/10
  it's sure look like all wresling gameplay, but 
 it's still good for me :)
  
  
  Storyline : 4/10
  .... cheap.....
  
  Graphics : 9/10
  Really beautifull characters and nice characters design too (havik love sexy 
 girls with big boob) 
  
  Positive of the game : 7/10
  -nice graphics
  -beautifull design
  -it's a fighting game afterall.
  -Nice backgrouds
  
  Negative of the 
 game : 5/10
  -Too many to say.
  
  
  The game wasn't something that we want to remember, I think the game as been made quickly and that's 
 the cause of his cheapnest..... They should work better on it if the do a Rumble Rose XXX (lol, 
 that's a kind of confusing game name) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 6
Date: May 30, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  RRXX offers superbly animated female characters duking it out and offers some side content, similar 
 to DOA: BV. Female gamers could find this game empowering while male gamers could... well, moving 
 along...
  
  The graphics and animation are excellent, though I personally find fault with the stereotypical 
 aspect that every character sports boobs of approximately the same large size and shape, as well 
 as cookie-cutter physiques.
  
  Additional game content includes the availability of additional outfits and bathing suits, though 
 the selection is small and very cookie-cutter. Side-activities like the pool games and the photo 
 ops showed potential but sadly fell short. A game option allows you to select a "punishment" served 
 to the loser of a custom match. Nice concept, but the "punishments tend to be terribly male-chauvinistic 
 and juvenile, or just plain lame.
  
  The gameplay also suffers from poor design. The characters offer a large assortment of special 
 moves, although some of those moves favor cleavage shots over practicality. In addition, the execution 
 of special moves triggers beautifully rendered cinematic sequences which unfortunately interrupt 
 the gameplay. Quirky flaws in the controls regarding blocking and reversing attacks also detracts 
 from overall enjoyment of the game.
  
  Another bad aspect is the fact that you cannot win a set number of matches to earn a title shot 
 or play a special match to unlock characters, it simply happens randomly.
  
  This game could have been great, but falls very short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vandam86
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Rumble Roses is one great classic game, it brings all the elements together, it is very similar 
 to WWW wrestling except all female, and a lot of sensual clothing, challenges, makes it a game 
 you will want to play again and again. The gameplay is very addictive, simple but yet full of challenges 
 for the experts, in unleashing all the combos possible. However the gameplay is a bit slow in the 
 sense it takes the characters real-time to execute their moves. The songs are quite catchy particularly 
 Yankee Rose, i will never get tired of it.
  
  There is something in here for everyone whether it be killer ninja babe, a rocker babe, a teacher 
 babe, the hot cowgirl babe, the customization will allow you to do anything you want for them. 
 The storyline though could have been different for every character to progess through different 
 stages instead of having everyone do the same routine over and over again.
  
  Great Game overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WalkingP
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Rumble Roses XX is hours and hours of mindless fun! Of the fighting type games it is probably the 
 best you'll ever find. There really is no plot, just wrestle match after match to win the titles 
 that include single, tag team, threesomes, and four foursomes matches. The controls are easy to 
 use and the characters have many special moves to pin their opponents.
  
  The graphics are tremendous and focus on the characters; these beautiful women can be played with 
 "as is" or can be dressed in a variety of costumes in many colors (more available on line) and 
 can be "physically enhanced" to suit your on tastes. Who says you have to be a doctor to do a little 
 nip and tuck? You will be playing with a large variety of characters and can create your own from 
 scratch including all physical attributes and skills. 
  
  All in all it's a great game to play, but does get monotonous after a while, and the music, even 
 though catchy, gets old. Besides the matches, there's "loser" games to play, dancing, photo shoots, 
 and much more. Is it replayable? Yes in deed! Just don't expect to be conquering any worlds or 
 killing all the bad guys. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ProvoCado
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:04 am PT
Review:  The concept should be great for any guy that wants to look at fine girls with little cloths on. 
 The fact that they wrestle just spice things up (get to see them in more positions) . On that side, 
 I only miss mud-wrestling and some cloth-ripping actions :-) With fairly good graphics, nice intros 
 to matches and a good varity of games it should be set.
  
  But it aint so.
  
  Why?
  
  This is the kind of games that I want to start up and play for ten minutes while I wait for 
 my friends or something. Instead it gets repetive, tedious and quite annoying to play after a few 
 hours of gameplay. It's the same goals with every figure, and you'll have to spend mopre hours 
 on playing this game than it will take to get through Mass Effect AND Halo 3 on the toughest levels 
 just to get half of the achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The one thing thats disappointing about this game is the controls... they are wierd... half the time 
 i dont know what im doing... at least for the smackdown and raw games there were a variety of moves 
 that required button pressing. The good thing is that its all women, and thats every male fantasy... to 
 see a bunch of women beating the hell out of each other. Another thing that botherd me about this 
 game was the fact that there is no set story mode, its just pick a character and wrestle which 
 can get repetitive and annoying. There are no set title matches you just keep playing until one 
 shows up and thats if they ever show up... and to unlock the alter egos you have to win these champions 
 which makes things difficult because its difficult, and to have to just sit and wait is also annoying, 
 all in all its an ok game but there is much room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destron123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly underrated. I suspect the critics didn't play it long enough to get a grasp 
 of the depth of the movesets as well and the online gaming experience.
  The multiplayer experience can be superb, if you find a player that is willing to fight reasonably 
 clean and not exploit the flaws in the game -- for those that do use the game's shortcomings to 
 their advantage such as the lack of countouts and DQ's and certain inescapable repetitive combos, 
 it will definitely kill the online experience.
  
  The character models are the best I've see in any next-gen game and they move with realistic fluidity 
 -- even facial expressions are superbly done.
  Ring outfits are highly detailed and appropriate for characters' gimmicks.
  The ladies display 
 enough personality with their onscreen dialogue and actions to make you care who wins and who loses 
 in single player mode. It does help to have played the original RR to get the backstory on the 
 characters and their relationships with each other. Some of the characters are given hilarious 
 personas such as Great Khan and I always enjoy the slew of side comments such as "NOT 'Aigle', 
 you slave!" and "Great Khan will rule whole world -- no need friends!".
  
  The game's biggest deficit is the weak AI in single player. The problem is it's easy to beat AI 
 opponents using very basic moves and this can give some the immpression that the moveset is limited 
 and boring. However, it you take the time to master the different button and analog stick cominatiosn, 
 you will discover a great depth in the variety of maneuvers and combos available and you can put 
 on some exciting matches that could rival the best the WWE has to offer.
  
  The achievment system seems a bit too hard. You only get 10 lousy points for taking your character 
 to a world championship and NO achievements for winning the tag belts with any combination of characters. 
 To buy all the items for each wrestler can take many hours because each item costs way too much 
 and you only get 20 points per wrestler for all your effort.
  
  The multiplayer ranking system is good and it's best not to pair with players more than one or 
 two levels above you or you are likely to get squashed.
  With an evenly matched opponent or a slightly higher ranked one, the matches can give a real adrenaline 
 rush with the number of reversals and near-falls you can pull off. If you've practiced, you can 
 surprise your opponents wikth some ultra flashy moves and combos. 
  
  This game can still be found in bargain bins for under $20 and it is well worth the purchase if 
 you haven't already checked it out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  I generally don't play wrestling games but I saw this game in the bargain bin and thought hey what 
 the heck, chicks wrestling can't be that bad .
  
  Anyway you start off the usual, picking a character and working your way up through the arena's 
 fighting different people. The tutorial though is not very good because all it does is show you 
 some moves in a video but doesn't let you actually try the move yourself. There is also no list 
 that I can find that has all the characters moves listed in the game, and the manual just gives 
 very basic information. So you are left blind mostly as to how to string together moves and submission 
 holds to win a match.
  
  There doesn't seem to be any real story which makes your objective unclear, I just kept competing 
 in different events until a boss appeared and I defeated her and became champion, after that you 
 can still keep playing though so there's not really an end. The graphics are good enough in some 
 parts though in other parts looks quite dated. The music in this game is pretty annoying but the 
 voice overs for the characters is good enough to pass. There's also a photoshoot mode which has 
 no real purpose to the game unless you like looking at near naked polygon females.
  
  My biggest complaint with this game is that there is a fair bit of content that has to be unlocked 
 to be played, but it takes ridiculous amounts of hours and matches to get it all. I played for 
 2 days when I first got it and only got about 5% of the content unlocked. You also have to do very 
 obscure things like beat certain opponents a certain amount of times or wear certain costumes in 
 certain rings, which without a guide you are enver going to figure out. Which brings me to the 
 other problem, this game gets repetitive fast, there is also a severe lack of zones to fight in,6 
 in total which is pretty poor. I doubt i'll ever unlock everything because of the ridiculous amount 
 of game time needed compared to how repetitive this game gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukePenfold
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Rumble Roses XX (6/10)
  This Is an okay game to play but with no story and limited moves that your character can perform 
 and only a few matches. It quickly becomes boring. The voice acting is good each character has 
 there own personality from cowgirl Dixie to boxer Reiko the graphics are good high level of detail 
 to each character. Nice environments to fight in. but does get boring very quickly you can also 
 create your own character but even this feature is very boring with not much stuff you can do it 
 quickly becomes one of them games your gonna trade in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryeinkazamoto
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Rumble Roses xx for the xbox 360 is the follow up (sequal) to the ps2's rumble roses. Its quite 
 a game. Sexy chicks with almost no clothing. A camera in which to make them do odd and weird poses. 
 A Body editor that allows you to give them a greater bust or thicker hips... Ah.... oh wait? Its 
 supposed to be a wrestling game? Graphics: The graphics on this game are simply amazing the texturing 
 and backgrounds are top notch. They water shimmers, the girls look great and the clothing looks 
 most realistic. Top notch stuff. Gameplay: Ahh the gameplay. Well this is where the game seems 
 to go down hill. The game itself is a very generic wrestling game and while it has the key points 
 to these type of games down it doesnt bring anything new to the table (Besides the obvious) . While 
 this game fixes and modifies a lot of the things that were wrong with the first game... Rumble roses 
 xx still doesnt feel much diffrent. The button layout is basically the same and most of the moves 
 are still intact. There are 3 ways to take out your opponent. Subbimssions, Pins, and when you 
 deplete their life bar (Although this is only used in one game mode) . Submissions this time around 
 are just as insane as the last game. Every submission basically flaunts the other girls goods, 
 embarrassing her with pain. This time around they even allow you to move the camera when the speical 
 attacks and holds are done allowing for even more perversion. While at first this may be kinda 
 cool, the idea eventually get boring, and soon your left with a lack luster femme wrestling game. 
 Fortunatly they have another mini game. The photo shoot. where you basically take pictures of the 
 girls, dress them up and make them pose for you. For the most part this just feels creepy, its 
 something you wouldnt want your girlfriend to come in and see you doing. It just seems akward to 
 explain. Custimazation: Well they've introduce a new custimize option where you can increase or 
 decrease a girls bust, hips, legs, and arms. Making their weight go up or down. As well as making 
 things bigger and smaller you can also give the character more muscle definition in the arms, legs, 
 and body. Which can make the girl look like a creepy, but petite juggernaut. As well as those things 
 you can custimize the way the girls dressed. Now dont get too excited because custimization is 
 very basic. You can buy a couple over priced suits and then try them on. Suit range from swims 
 suits, to maid out fits, to bunny and cat suits. You can basically change the color on these... and 
 uh... thats about it. Overview: All in all this is a pretty cool game. It gets kinda bland after 
 a while but, the online modes and such help out in that department. Not to mention they have plenty 
 of unlockables in extras. I would partially recommend this to people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jes1709
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  ok i went to gamestop just to try to find sum cheap game to play till some thing on my reserve 
 list came out and i seen this for $14.00 and i just siad ok why not i played the old one on the 
 PS2. well to me this game is a little bit easier than the old one and is just about the same. one 
 thing they should have done to it is tell u what to do when u start playing it just gose a screen 
 with differnt things to pick from but the game is not bad i meen if u like girls and fighting its 
 what ur looking for. but i think if u are just playing to fight dont bother there are way better 
 fighting games out there. and even if u are just playing it for the girls just play DOA 4 u wil 
 have more fun fighting and looking at the hotties at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alpha172
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  Now, what can I say since everything I wanted to say has already been said in other people's review.
 
  
  It's quite hard to learn at the first 2 Hours of the gameplay (it's properbly just me as I dont 
 look at the tutorial or basic controls and hop right into the game and figure it out later) . Theres 
 just too many bloody arena's and options to choose from just to pick a fight, I couldn't even win 
 a match when playing in the same match for like half an hour and ended up dead or still trying 
 to figure out how to 'defeat' the opponent, in other words, half naked chick.
  
  What else, horrible voice commands like I knew you'd do that when triggering something in the game 
 that makes the NPC say that, which the creators could have hired more chicks or something to say 
 better lines then that, you know.
  
  Overall the gameplay just isn't that bad since someone has already mentioned its made to attract 
 horney boys to buy this. Also, hire it first before buying it. Note: not a family game as you dont 
 want your 9 year old kids asking alot of questions... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mas_War_Ex
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 17, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  Title: RUMBLE ROSES XX (aka Rumble Roses Double X/ Rumble Roses 2) .
  
  Developer: Yukes Interactive Media.
  Publisher: Konami/ Year: 2006.
  
  Number Of Players 
 Offline: 2-to-4.
  
  Online GamePlay Support: Yes ( 2-to-4 Players: Xbox Live) .
  
  Downloadable Content: Yes (depending on availabliabilty) .
  
  Controller Rumble Feature: Yes.
 
  =========================================
  
  'RUMBLE ROSES XX' for the Xbox 360 is the sequel to 2004-2005's original Rumble Roses than was 
 released on Sony's PlayStation 2. Both these games were Developed by Yuke's Interactive Media & 
 Published/Released by Konami.
  
  The sequel, Rumble Roses XX debuts in Spring 2006 on MicroSoft's New Next Generation Console, the 
 Xbox 360. Now with Online game play, fans of the All-Female Wrestling Series can play Single Games, 
 or Tag Matches, with other players around the world of Xbox Live.
  
  ANIMATION & GRAPHICS.
  
  The biggest improvements in RRXX are the visuals & sound effects. 
 The graphics look great when compared to the first instalment in the series. There are particularly 
 good lighting effects & shading/shadowing effects when the Female Characters are moving around 
 on-screen.
  
  Some of the Stages, like the Beach Stage & the SkyScraper Stage, tend to stand out more than the 
 other stages, because of their interesting themes & settings. Overall though, there could be more 
 stages to wrestle in, other than the limited selection that's given to you.
  
  And speaking of Female Characters, Konami does not try to hide the fact that they are, once again, 
 marketing a Sexy, All-Girl Wrestling Game title to the Gaming Consumer, who is interested in those 
 types of Mature Themes. A lot of Sexual Innuendo exist in Rumble Roses XX, but it's all safely 
 within the limits of the appropriate M-Ratings. So, don't get your hopes up & expect to see any 
 'Nude Codes,' 'Nude Patches,' 'Nude Unlockables,' or anything to those crazy extremes.
  
  AUDIO & SOUND.
  
  Many of the old Sound Effects from the frist Rumble Roses game on the PS2, 
 have been brought over here into RRXX. They all sound great, and they usually fit into the context, 
 in which they occur. The physical strikes all sound approriate, for example. When characters interact 
 with water on the beach stage, you hear the appropriate water splashing effects.
  
  The Music is good as well, considering that all of the characters have their own personal Theme 
 Song, to match their own personal Walk-In Intro. Many of the music styles differ, based on the 
 personality & the character of the girls that you are currently fighting with. Of course, if for 
 some reason, you still don't like the selection of music, then you can always use soundtracks from 
 your own personal music collection, since this is a standard feature for the Xbox 360 Console itself.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY & CONTROLS.
  
  The GamePlay remains relatively unchanged, but with a few additions into the mix. I recommend sticking 
 with the default Button Configuration, since it's simple & works well enough, together with the 
 Top Shoulder Buttons & Trigger Buttons.
  
  The X Button has you Strike (Punch, Kick, Slap, E. t. c) , while the Y Button has you Grapple (Grab, 
 Throw, Pick-Up, E. t. c) .
  
  Pressing in different directions on the Analog Stick/Direction Pad and pressing the various Attack 
 Buttons at the same time, will produce a variety of different attacks, that change, depending on 
 the situations that your character (and or their opponent) are currently in.
  
  Don't forget to learn how to Counter Strikes by pressing the Right Top Shoulder Button & the X 
 Button at the same time (RB X) .
  
  Countering Grapples requires you to press the Top Right Shoulder Button & the Y Button together 
 (RB Y) . The proper timing to Countering both Physical Attacks & Throws can be tricky to master, 
 but it's very necessary to learn it, so as to avoid getting contantly abused by your opposition.
 
  
  Under normal circumstances, Tagging your Team Mate is simply done by pressing the Right Trigger 
 (RT) . If your Tag Team partner has recieved too much Physical Damage, you will not be able to Tag 
 her in. She has to recover from her injured state first, before you can Tag her in to replace you.
 
  
  Once you see the On-Screen Message Flash, press RB LB together, for the DOUBLE X TAG TEAM Attack, 
 which involves both your current character & their Tag Team Partner, teaming up together, to simultaneously 
 attack one of their opponents in the ring. If it fully connects, these wrestling manuvers can cause 
 a lot of damage to your wrestling foes.
  
  Both your character & her Tag Team Partner, require 1 Special Move Meter EACH, in order to execute 
 a Double X Tag Team Attack.
  
  Double X Tag Team Attacks actually change, depending on the area of the Ring you currently are 
 (in the middle of the ring with your opponent on the floor, standing face-to-face with your dizzy 
 foe, e. t. c) . Some of the Double X Tag Team Attacks could be Physical Strikes, Grappling Moves, 
 or an interesting Combination of both.
  
  Double X Tag Team Attacks, like the very concept of Tag Teams itself, are both new to Rumble Roses 
 XX, since neither of these features existed in the first game.
  
  For each character, KILLER & LETHAL Special Attacks, also return to Rumble Roses Part 2. But curiously, 
 the ability to drag around your opponent by her head (hair?) has been removed from the sequel. 
 This may have been done to avoid players dragging their opponents over to their Tag Team Corner, 
 & repeatedly abusing them for an unfair advantage.
  
  GAME CONTENT.
  
  In the Locker Room, you have a the option to photograph any of the existing main characters, or 
 to photgraph any of your own Created Female Wrestlers. You can pose them in a variety of ways (standing, 
 sitting, lying down, e. tc.) , while they are wearing a variety of outfits & costumes, and then take 
 pictures of them. These images can be saved in you phot gallery, or you can even share them online 
 with other 'Rumble Roses XX' fans who are interested in that sort of thing. The Mature Content 
 of some of the photos that can be taken in this particular mode, is also another one of the reasons 
 why this title gets an M-Rating.
  
  During active gameplay, there are some 'Collision Detection' Problems, as well as issues with 'Clipping 
 Issues' with the Graphics. Sometimes, some of the ladies hands & legs, pass right through certain 
 objetcs or other body parts. Also, running at your foe, & trying to hit or grab them in the process 
 (a legitamate attack, by the way) feels very un-precise, sometimes causing your Wrestler to completely 
 miss her intended mark.
  
  Unfortunately, there really is no Story Mode in RRXX, something that many Fans of the original 
 game enjoyed & wanted to see return (despite how shallow & silly some might have considered the 
 story to have been, the first time around) . This sequel is more about the Wrestling Experience, 
 the Create-A-Wrestler Mode, the different Match Types, and the near endless amount of Unlockable 
 to acquire.
  
  There are FOUR different Versions of each character: BabyFace, SuperStar BabyFace, Hard Heel, & 
 SuperStar Hard Heel. All these Alter Egos not only have different Intro Sequences, but they all 
 fight differently from each other, with the SuperStar Versions, being the more Powerful of the 
 bunch. Specific Match Types, have to be won, & certain Characters have to be defeated by others 
 (usually their Rivals) , just to obtain newer versions of the existing characters (their Alter Egos) , 
 as well as to get new unlockables clothing & props.
  
  By far, the biggest Challenge of Rumble Roses XX, are the unlocakables. You will spend HOURS trying 
 to unlock all of the various character Alter-Egos, Costumes, SwimSuits, e. t. c. This is because 
 you have to unlock all the items, for EACH of the Characters, and their Alternate Forms. In addition, 
 you also have to unlock each of the various items, for all the Created Wrestlers that you make. 
 In other words, this is not a short, over-night game, which you can just beat and complete in a 
 couple of sittings. Expect to play RRXX for a LONG time, before you acheive 100%, in terms of unlocking 
 EVERYTHING.
  
  CREATE-A-WRESTLER MODE.
  
  Create-A-Wrestler Mode allows players to make, edit & customize their very own Female Wrestler. 
 But it's not just the different types of Outfits that you can dress up your Female Wrestler in. 
 You can also edit everything from her Hair, Facial Features, to her Arms, Body & Legs. You can 
 alter her body type by increasing or decreasing her Muscle Mass, the Width of her Hips, and the 
 Size of her Breasts & Thighs. 
  
  Depending on how Light or Heavy you decide to make her Body Weight, this will automatically affect 
 her overall speed & reaction time (Fast, Medium, or Slow) . Her Physical Endurance/Stamina, & how 
 Strongly/Weakly she fights, are all also affected by any major changes, made to her Body/Muscle 
 Mass.
  
  If your Created Wrestler is Muscular, Tall, and Heavy, she will do way more damage than normal, 
 but at the same time she will move & react very slowly. If your Created Wrestler is on the Lighter, 
 Shorter, and Less Muscular side of things, she is typically a lot faster, more agile, but does 
 not pack a powerful punch, so to speak.
  
  You have the choice also of picking from a variety of Fighting Styles like Ninjitsu, Judo, Wrestling 
 & many more. You can also pick the Wrestling Sub-Category (in addition to the above mentioned styles) , 
 like from Strike, Submission, Wrestling, & even Lucha Libre. Combining Wrestling Styles & Sub-Categories, 
 will also change how your Wrestler will fight, along with altering their Special Attacks (like 
 their Finishing Moves) .
  
  You are free to edit/alter the way your character wrestlers. Just bear in mind that any changes 
 make to your main Fighting style, as well as your Wrestling Sub-Category, will also change, which 
 Special Attacks (Finishing Moves) that your Character has. Learn this aspect of the game, because 
 it becomes very useful when you have to fight in specific Match Types, which usually are easier 
 to win, only when you change your character's wrestler style, to suit the current Match type.
 
  
  SUMMARY & CONCLUSION.
  
  Rumble Rose XX is a worthy sequel to the initial outing, because (for better or worse) Konami gave 
 fans of the series a lot of what they wanted to see in the second game. Granted, they could have 
 spent more time on RRXX to add a lot more feature (like more Stages, more actual new characters, 
 & a Storyline Mode) . Konami could have also taken their time to have speed up the loading time, 
 & fixed some of the noticable Graphically Problems (like the occasional poor collision & clipping) .
 
  
  Perhaps Konami would provide this Title, with more improvements, over their Xbox Live Service, 
 in the form of Downloadable Updates/Patches, which should hopefully fix all of the problems currently 
 bothering Rumble Roses XX (that, of course, remains to be seen) .
  
  Still, if you liked the first game (and you Fans know who you are out there) , or if you are into 
 a fun, Mature-Themed Wrestling Game, that focuses more on Fantasy than on Reality (remember: this 
 isn't 'WWE' or 'TNA') , then I recommend getting Rumble Roses XX for the Xbox 360. With it's current 
 price tag dropped down to $20 or below for a brand new, un-opened copy, it's really a fun bargain.
 
  
  A Guilty Pleasure indeed!
  
  An-8-Out-Of-10.
  
  Thanks For Reading!
  Game-Quest-Ex. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremy45
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 30, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game used at gamestop and i could refuse 17.99 so i bought it and i regret it alittle. 
 Graphics are ok game play could use some work. I played the game for 15min and i whas done. Waste 
 of money?, yes indeed but thats just my opinion.
  The only thing i like about the game is real body physics and i think you already know why i like 
 that. This game is nothing but eye candy for your own amusement and pleasure .
  Oh, and one more thing. Please rent this before you buy it might be a mistake your making. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goat012002
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 18, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  This game is one of those I coulda been a contendah games. This game, for all intents and purposes, 
 had the potential to a) be one of the best wrestling games out there and b) fill the void that 
 is created by one WWE game after another, namely, why watch sweaty men in tights play with each 
 other, when I can watch sweaty women in tights do the same. The game brings just enough of a crazy 
 Japanese flare for perversion without going overboard. Nothing in the game is tasteless, albeit 
 the angle of the game is still sex sells . As far as depth, this is where the game suffers. There 
 is no story to speak of, so career mode soon faulters in its replay value. Additionallly, the unlockable 
 achievements require the participating gamer to forsake the sun for what may end up being a year 
 long hiatus from the world of man. On average, you earn about 2500 dollars per match win. Well 
 there are a ton of unlockable costumes (most of which are mediocre at best) that are exuberant 
 in their cost (anywhere from 5000 to 30,000) . So to unlock anything takes absolutely forever. This 
 wouldn't be so much of a problem, if there was replay value! Unfortunately, with the lack of any 
 kind of story, and the inability to truly customize the wrestlers in any tangibkle sense, you quickly 
 lose steam. Thankfully, the graphics are so incredibly well done that they redeem the game immensely. 
 If you like a kitschy, Nippon-inspired, sexually repressed raunchy romp of a wrestling game, then 
 you will love it. If you don't, then you may well think this is game is a rotten egg. It's fans 
 can't get enough of it, but it's critics seem to go out of their way to extoll its flaws as well, 
 more than any other game in recent past, as if it was their personal witch hunt or questing beast 
 . Whatever the case may be, it makes for an interesting conversation piece if not a fun game. All 
 in all, you'd be well served at least trying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 7
Date: May 16, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  Indeed the first thing you notice about Rumble Roses XX is that the women are absolutley beautiful 
 and built like Playmates. But unfortunatly that is pretty much all that this game has to offer. 
 Rumble Roses XX successfully recycles most of the first game for the PS2. The graphics are spectacular. 
 The attention to detail is astounding. Unfortunatly this is the major aspect of the game. The ladies 
 are great looking and they put themselves in some seriously compromising positions. But most of 
 the moves for each individual are simular to every other one, plus each doesn't have their own 
 fighting style. The addition of the photo shoot just adds to the sex appeal of this game. The controls 
 are a bit clumsy. It's difficult to block and turn around on your opponant. It's also difficult 
 at times to get your ladies into the compromising positions that all people who can't afford Maxim 
 want to see. The music is a bunch of Japanese electric guitar rock. The crown noises are pretty 
 standard. They did add more trash talking while the fight is going on. They also added a tag team 
 system which is added from the last game. Rumble Roses really doesn't have much to offer. it's 
 a re-hash of the prior game that's main focus was watching sexy women smack each other around. 
 While I would much rather play a game like that, the WWE titles are much deeper and more complete. 
 This is one to keep on the shelves unless you absolutly need to see some girl on girl action. If 
 that's the case, the internet is much less expensive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyacevedo
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Unfortunetly this game has little replay value. Rumble Roses is probably the most pathetic attempt 
 to get horny wrestling fans excited about these hot young women who seem to beat the crap out of 
 each other.
  The only positive thing about this game is the women who are featured in it, and lets be honest, 
 there are not alot of them. The entrances can entertain you the first few times, but they get old 
 really fast. On the Negative side, there are not a lot of moves here and once you're down your 
 opponent can just keep kicking you till you die. The finishing moves were alright, but there isnt 
 a whole lot of variety, once you see one sexy girl wreslte you've seen them all.
  There is no replay value here, the game is just dull, it has no excitement in here, if you are 
 bored and you dont feel like playing any of your other games then go for this one, but I recomend 
 any other game you have over this one.
  The multiplayer mode is probably more fun than the single player mode, but you and your friends 
 will get sick of it quick.
  The only reason I can think of to buy this game would be if you just got a 360 and you see the 
 possibly low price this game should have, (Dont pay full price for it, buy a used one, trust me 
 it wont be that used) you want to save your money, but if you really want your moneys worth just 
 buy a cheeseburger at Burger King. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgmkyle
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved games that focus mainly on women. From Dead or Alive to Final Fantasy X-2, I 
 love seeing females in games, and lets just face it. There nearly always more entertaining the male 
 characters.
  
  Rumble Roses XX has a very arcade feel to it. Its fun to pick up and play for thirty or forty minutes 
 at a time. But then you should give it a break and come back to it later to prevent from getting 
 tired of it. Don't play this game for achievements. People make the game boring just because they 
 have to actually work to unlock them, this is not King Kong.
  
  The game is fun to pick up. Mainly because there are a ton of cool and enticing moves. The game feels 
 every bit as deep as games like SmackDown VS Raw 2007. Other than there being more modes that your 
 never gonna play anyway and a crappy analog control system. Each girl has a Killer, Lethal and Humiliation 
 move. And there Super Star form has a Super Lethal move, that will give you an easy pin. Some of the 
 lethal moves are kinda lame. But most of them are very fun to watch. They leave a lot for the imagination.
 
  
  Story mode is gone now. It got terrible feedback from reviewers who took it to seriously. As the 
 voice acting was robotic, I like the charming story mode, and I would have loved to see it return. So 
 I have to dock a point for that.
  
  There is a Street Fight and Queens Match added as new modes. Street Fight is lame and is a 3D fighter 
 with health bars included. Queens Match is fun and has a cool exclusive beach themed ring, but the 
 premise is to beat the other girl and to make them do something, well strange... Such jump rope. You 
 can also shoot them with water guns and push them in pools. Kinda cute, but kinda needs to be expanded 
 on. The scenes should be longer and the environments for them look really bad.
  
  Graphics is a main highlight to XX. The graphics are amazing. The characters look really cool. As 
 well as there outfits. Reiko and the gang look almost real, but yet still have this anime feel to 
 them. And the ring and titan tron look grand. There is also a really cool real time audience.
  
  The game has some amazing lyrics, such as Reach to the Sky and Rising Sun .And the game sounds 
 great as well. Some neat music spread through out everything.
  
  Rumble Roses has a lot to do in it. Maybe to much for its own good. There are ton of things to unlock. Some 
 of the stuff is really cool, and some of it is not worth the hard earned money. But all in all you 
 will be kept busy for around 500+ hours if you want every single thing unlocked in this game. Good 
 Luck.
  
  All in all Rumble Roses XX is a great wrestling game and even with some annoying clipping and sometimes 
 repetitive gameplay, it still manages to be really fun, sexy and entertaining most importantly.
 
  
  If your in to wrestling and girls (which is a peanut butter and chocolate situation) you must pick 
 this game and should be prepared to have a fun time with some cool girls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdripper
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 1, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  The original Rumble Roses XX was a lot of things- I call it the most blatant attempt to cash in 
 on horny gamers' insatiable hunger for scantily-clad polygon personages that even makes DOA look 
 tame in comparison- but at least, it was fun and it had promise. Rumble Roses XX looked to improve 
 on the mistakes and shortcomings that the original game had, promising next-gen graphics, tons 
 of hot wrestling moves, addictive gameplay and a wealth of unlockables and a versatile character 
 creation/edit mode.
  
  Unfortunately, after all was said and done, RRXX turned out to be little more than the original 
 game with minimal add-ons, a shiny but shallow coat of next-gen glam, and repetitive, shallow gameplay 
 that made unlocking the game's many unlockables a chore.
  
  Gameplay: 5
  Though it promised much, RRXX pretty much rehashes most of it's animations from the previous game, 
 albeit with some new grapples for the girls here and there. But if you played the first game, you'll 
 see a lot of the same stuff from before. Heavy on counters and favoring the use of the same tactic 
 over and over to confound the limited CPU AI, playing RRXX soon becomes repetitive and ultimately, 
 tiresome and boring. The worst of the few modes in the game is the 'Streetfight' mode, whose gameplay 
 isn't even up to par with first-gen PSOne fighters. I said it once, I'll say it again... Konami 
 stinks with fighting games. With the basic fighting engine so flawed, not even the ability to improve 
 and modify your wrestling babe matters.
  
  Graphics: 7
  If there's a place where RRXX is good at, it's in looking sexy. The girls are detailed though the 
 character models have a creepy look to them, like plastic sex dolls. The lifeless eyes and the 
 blank faces will repel you even as the abundance of nubile skin and long limbs will attract you. 
 The animation is good, looking best for the complex (and scandalous) grapples, but is slightly 
 stilted and awkward in some places. Sound: 5
  A LOT of rehashed music and sounds from the previous game, accompanied by solid smacks and laughable 
 voice acting.
  
  Value: 5
  RRXX is all about looks (hot CG girls) but little talent (awkward, repetitive and shallow gameplay) . 
 The best stuff in the game- unlockable items, characters and T&amp; A animations aplenty- are hidden 
 deep in the game, attainable only by playing hours and hours of tiresome bouts over and over for 
 every single character. If you somehow get into the gameplay, there's a lot of T&amp; A goodies 
 to plunder.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 4
  I really wanted to love RRXX, but I ended up disliking it- hating it even, thanks to the disappointments 
 heaped on me by the game. Rehashed and slow, repetitive, monotonous gameplay, tedious item unlocking 
 and a very limited Character edit mode far outweigh all the abundance of CG flesh on offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackkunoichi
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game to me is really mysterious to play. There are however many things that are a major weakness 
 of this game.
  
  1. No Story Mode. You just win 15 matches, win 3 consecutive matches, and win against each default 
 character once, in the process. Then you have to fight Lady X Substance (the very hard boss on the 
 1st game) to get the belt, which was not really that hard. All I did was keep attacking her when 
 she gets up. After that you have to do the same thing with other default characters, except the 
 heels if you just want their alter-egos because you have to beat them 10 times with certain characters. 
 After that, you have to fight the champion again (the person you last played with) Basically, you 
 do that about more than 5 times.
  
  2. Create a character mode does not bring much to it. Yes, creating someone in this series is very 
 good, but you can't edit the face, you can only choose small choices of hair, you have to unlock 
 clothes, which aren't really large of choices, you have only moves sets to choose from that has 
 very weak lethal and killer moves (which also means you can't edit their moves either) , their only 
 call name is Origin Unknown, Unidentified wrestler, Lambda! and the voice acting for the edit character 
 is not very different (there are 3 different ones but they all say the same thing, but either higher, 
 or lower) . The worst thing about editing a character is that there is only one entrance, and the 
 entrance really sucks big time. The only good thing about editing a character is editing the figure 
 and muscles of the character. 3, One of the worst features in gaming ever. This game is not the 
 only one to do this. The feature to where you have to do certain stuff to unlock things, and then 
 you have to buy it.
  
  4. No new characters, except 30 edit characters, and the superstar mode for each character (default 
 and alter ego)
  
  5. Counter timing really sucks, but easy to do.
  
  6. Street Mode is very unrealistic.
  
  7. No mud match. Instead they have a Queen's Match, 
 which the loser gets to wear certain outfits and humiliate theirselves, which is a pretty cool 
 match.
  
  Would you have fun playing it? Well, yeah you would have fun for a while. The graphics are what 
 really gave this game a good score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwx55
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Rumble rose xx is a nice game to play and lots to unlock to. it is only 5 stages it could be more 
 but you get what ya get. when you first start the game they just throw you in it an it is no practice 
 so you going to get bet allot on your frist try unless your lucky. street fighting dose not play 
 like tekken like they keep saying know where near it. and customizing is alright but it it is a 
 limit to it. I think it is about it, the fighting is easy so you get it faster than me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoVirus
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Finally a wrestling game on a Microsoft console worth having!
  Despite hearing all the typical negative comments about Rumble Roses XX and how its just for desperate 
 computer geeks who cant get laid blah blah blah. There is that side to it but if youre into wrestling 
 then there is a whole other level of enjoyment. A lot of real wrestling moves and that I would 
 be tempted to steal and use if I wrestled anymore.
  
  You can modify the wrestlers so a certain extent but increasing muscle tone which makes them stronger 
 and funky little things like that. Now that I have something different to play I dont have to 
 wear out my Game Cube with Day of Reckoning 2. The problem is most people dont like wrestling 
 games and just bash them. I only hope Raw vs. Smackdown 2007 is better then RRXX cause the last 
 couple of WWE showing on MS consoles have sucked balls! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptSquirrly1091
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is ok, i think they could've made it better.... ALOT better. Graphics are great! however, 
 gameplay lacks excitement / reality.... its kind of like watching dead or alive games with out 
 the bounce... you know??? other then lack of reality this game is pretty good. thats all i've gotto 
 say about this game, except for the levels and other things... there are a few other things... 
 but they are minor mistakes so i wont go there... anyways as I said before, good game! recomened 
 it for anyone who likes women fight in the ring with barely any clothing on their bodies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravenindahouse
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 7, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  Well the gameplay isnt that great. Its very arcade style because theirs no story mode. Theres 
 no new characters and also the game can become very boring because once you have finished the championship 
 with one character you do the same all again with a different character to be honest this game 
 would take vampire years to complete. (honest)
  
  Graphics Well you know graphics move on and the characters are looking more realistic than before. 
 The environments arent that good. But the graphics are okay i was expecting more from next gen 
 though Sound Well what can I say theres not much for the characters to tribute. (Good soundtrack) 
 Overall This is a very avrage game so dont expect to much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Rumble Roses XX alot of people say it sucks well i say it does'nt i played the first on ps2 i totally 
 loved the game this one i like more. I bought this game actually i was happy that i did get it 
 cause its just plain fun with a few more stuff added to this. Graphics alot of people say they 
 suck well there wrong its way cool the girls look real just some people i guess don't respect great 
 graphics in a game. Here is what this game offers it brings you 4 way match, a humiliation match 
 where you have to use humiliation moves, tag team matches which i really like in this game, queen 
 match pretty strange if you lose who ever your playing must do the samba or limbo etc, there's 
 a few more others aswell. i can say all the girls are in this one that were in the first. The wrestling 
 is a bit slow thats one of the down sides it was like that in the first but its still a brilliant 
 game. The entrance's are brilliant thats what i love in this game also good entrances music aswell 
 i wish these were real woman wrestler's cause there real cool. I love this game great graphics 
 better then the first just the mud wrestling thats missing and i haven't seen a story to the game. 
 Overall its game i can play for ages if your waiting for a wwe to come out or bored of it buy this 
 cause its well good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Space_Godzillla
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Two years ago Konami and Yukes teamed up to deliver an all female wrestling title. And for the 
 most part it was a pretty solid wrestling title. Now the two team up again to deliver a sequel 
 for the Xbox 360. Is it better than the first one? 
  
  Actually Konami does deliver the goods with this sequel or should I say remake. First of all Ive 
 noticed how unfair many of the reviewers have been with this game. Sure the game has a sense of 
 sexuality but so did games like Dead or Alive and Grand theft auto but people still reviewed those 
 games high. But anyways the main focus of this game is wrestling action with beautiful women. Now 
 on paper it doesnt sound so much like a bad idea, and it isnt the end result turns out to be 
 a fun, good looking wrestling game. 
  
  Yukes has been known for its wrestling engine since it started working with THQ to create the 
 WWE Smackdown series, which is basically the Madden of wrestling games. So you can expect a great 
 wrestling engine for Rumble Roses XX. It may not be as deep or have as many moves as Smackdown 
 vs. Raw 2006 but it gets the job done. Some people will however wish that the girls have some more 
 moves. There is quite a number of female wreslters in the game that are better known as the roses. 
 You first start out with ten of them, as you progress through the game will end up unlocking their 
 alternate ego. What I mean is that theres basically a good guy and bad guy version to each rose. 
 This sounds sorta gimmicky at first but the end result feels satisfying as they each have a different 
 look compared to their alternate other. They also have a difference in moves, attitude, and entrance 
 during the match so its not like its just an outfit change. Using each superstar in certain ways 
 will also raise their popularity, reaching a certain point you will also unlock the new superstar 
 versions of the roses. Theres a superstart version for both the good and bad form. What the superstar 
 versions do is just add stronger variations of the moves that the rose already has before. And 
 they are much more flashier in looks and entrance. So when you add them up all together there is 
 up to 40 wrestlers. 
  
  Thats without saying that each character have a unique feeling and persona to them. Aisha the dancing 
 pop star focuses on strike and kicks to work on the opponents head while Makoto Aihara will focus 
 more on takedowns like olympic wrestling. Each wrestler has a fair amount of grapples and striking 
 moves. First there is strike attacks which you can press X for either repeatedly to pull of a combo 
 or X and a directional button to pull of a different strike like a kick or clothesline. Press Y 
 with either   to pull of a grapple then press Y again with either directional button to pull of 
 the grapple move. Pressing Y with up or down will take down the superstar to the ground where you 
 can execute a ground upper body or ground lower body grapple. There are aslo a few running attacks, 
 and grapples. Turnbuckle attacks and grapples. And off the top rope high flying moves. As you use 
 more and more moves your momentum meter will rise giving you the chance to execute a finishing 
 move which are broken up in different categories. The Killer move, Lethal Move and Humiliation 
 Move. How the humiliation move works is various moves in from character either submission or strike 
 will also embarass their opponent making their humiliation meter rise, when this meter rises to 
 the top you will be able to execute the Humiliation move which is focused to put the other wrestler 
 in a questionable position, embarassing her making her more likely to tap out to it. Other than 
 that the gameplay feels more or less simliar to Smackdown thanks to the great engine Yukes has 
 put together. 
  
  The A. I. in the game is pretty tough but not cheap. When you first start out playing chances are 
 theyll kick your ass, but once you get used to the counters which need right timing they can be 
 taken down. But still after getting used to the game the A. I. can still beat you. I was once in 
 a match for eleven minutes and I still lost against Aigle... 
  
  There is also now an edit mode where you can edit your favorite character, by adjusting their muscles 
 or even making their bust bigger. You can also change the outfits of the characters aswell. Now 
 there is also a a create a wrestler mode but it isnt anywhere as deep as the WWE wrestling games. 
 You can thirty slots of characters that go by the default name by of Lambda, so even changing the 
 name the announcer will still refer to her as Lambda. You also get the same face for each edit 
 character you can just adjust her muscles, measurements, hairstyles, skin colors, hair colors, 
 eye color, certain moveset, and lip color. You can tell that the developers didnt really put much 
 time into this mode and in the end it sorta feels half-assed. But that not to say people wont 
 want to use it, its a cool mode it just falls short of certain expectations. 
  
  The gameplay is where the one of the main focus of the game is as with any other game... you are 
 taken to a menu to where you can choose either three different career wrestling matches that can 
 vary between a singles match, tag team match, handicap, triple threat, or fatal four way. Too bad 
 the horrid story mode in the original wasnt expanded on to what it couldve been with branching 
 storylines... but rather they got rid of it all together. Theres even a street fight mode which 
 feels more out of place as the developers try to add a tekken/ dead or alive feel to it. These 
 are the matches you would want to stick to if you are aiming to become the Singles Champion or 
 Tag Team Champion. 
  
  Didnt the other reviewers say that there isnt any belts? Well guess what there is and it seems 
 that they didnt put enough time into the game. There is also Exhibition mode where you can choose 
 between the games main match modes. Singles, Tag Team, Three Way Royal, Four Way Royal, Pure Humiliation 
 Match, Street Fight, and Queens Match. 
  
  The Queens match is basically a gimmicky match that has that takes place on a ring cover by shallow 
 beach water where the loser needs to perform some action thatll embarass her whether it be dancing 
 the samba, or having to imitate a cat pose. More embarassing actions can be bought at the shop. 
 
  
  Winning matches will give you money where you can go to the shop to buy many unlockables per character. 
 You can buy quite a number of outfits, some of which youll have to unlock first in order to buy. 
 You can also buy more poses for the all new photoshoot mode. The photoshoot mode is where you can 
 choose a rose or two if youd prefer a pair shot. Put them in a certain outfit if you want and 
 make them pose in certain positions. After you can upload these photos to Xbox Live to share with 
 the world. Many players will get perverted dressing up their character in the skimpiest outfit 
 but some will create great works of art. 
  
  The graphics have to be one of the most impressive part of the game which are preferable on an 
 HDTV. The Roses are just beautifully crafted and look damn near perfect. Skin looks pretty natural 
 if you look close enough youll know what I mean. Hair also looks pretty good for many of the wrestlers. 
 Although there is some clipping issues as with any wrestling game its not as easy to spot this 
 time around. Arenas although there are only really five including the encaged street fight arena, 
 all look well and the crowd are well made. Although there are some brightness issues that seem 
 to blur the arenas its no big deal. The characters look like they are actually living beings rather 
 than plastic anime like dolls. Clothes textures looks great, looking at Rowdy Reikos leather suit 
 shows how much time the developers put into the game. 
  
  The sound of the game can be somewhat of a mixed bag. Most of the charcter voice overs fit nicely. 
 The entance music is well put together and the in game soundtrack is interesting little techno 
 tracks that arent really annoying. Although the game lets you use music from the your playlist 
 to play at certain arenas which is a nice addition. You can also use you playlist music for the 
 CAW or Roses entrances if you want to replace their current themes. Also the Roses say many different 
 phrases during matches and when in action. Which is a nice touch that adds to the experience. 
 
  
  The online play is pretty basic but a worthy addition to a game such as this. Its broken down into 
 either ranked Matches or unranked player matches, each with the choice of quick, custom or create 
 a match. You can play pretty much every match type singles, tag team, humiliation matches. Sadly 
 there isnt any three ways or four ways online. Its also a shame that not many people play this 
 game online, but if you are on at the right time you can probaly find a good match. Lag is mostly 
 found in matches with someone from japan or farther from where you live but it just feel like a 
 delay in responsiveness. Ranking is done similiar to that of Dead or Alive where youll rank up 
 from a F to a C, B, A, then S. So while not mind blowing the online is a really good addition to 
 Rumble Roses XX. 
  
  So although the developers intended the game to have alot of sex appeal the game plays great and 
 theres hardly any flaws to it. Some people will unfortunately get bored with this type of game 
 though. There are some improvements that can be done in the next title that I would like seeing 
 such as more moves, a better Story and CAW mode, and newer characters. But what Rumble Roses XX 
 does is expand the original and succeeds it in many ways. For wrestling fans you need to check 
 this out. Even for people who like a little competition its probably worth a rental. Now if you 
 are getting this game for its the woman then by all means have fun. This has to be one of the 
 most fun games Ive played since the 360s launch. And like Full Auto, probably one of this years 
 most underrated games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raycerxtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  I found the game to be fun to play, both single and in multiplayer modes. Graphics are nice and 
 while it doesn't break much new ground, it does what it does well. It's fun to play and easy to 
 get a hang of. It would probably make an awesome party game. It's definately not a game for kids, 
 as the girls are scattedly clad and some of the costumes are just shy of being nude, but as with 
 many 360 titles, it was never intended for kids.
  
  A real story mode would have been great, but other than that, I found it to be just what I expected; 
 A fun wrestling game with some T&A tossed in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMOKEMNHALO2001
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Before I start nameing all the bad things about RUMBLE ROSES XX ( and trust me, there's plenty.) 
 I'll say something nice. the graphics are awsome, there's plenty to unlock, and there's online 
 play. There, that's it, that's all this games got going for it. KONAMI just halfed the job and 
 settled with what they had, the graphics. Ok, gameplay. It's just your simple wrestling game, there's 
 no room for button smashing, just kick, punch, it's all in the mind. (sorry, I was trying to make 
 this game and review better. old school gamers will know what that means.) Anyway, you can finish 
 a single match in about 2-4 minutes, yeah it's that easy. manly because you can "embarass" your 
 opponent, this causes you to do a special move, a move by the way, noone can escape from! this 
 makes beating the computer way too easy. and you'll be doing that, alot! there's no story just 
 fight the next random person and win. there's also a "STREET FIGHT" mode, but it fells so out of 
 place you'll wonder why you even bothered playing the game. i could tell you more about the game 
 like the online features but I can't. Simply because no matter how many times I went online with 
 it NOBODY was there. I guess they was too ashamed about buying this game, or they were playing 
 doa 4. if you played the 1st one (on the ps2) than you'll notice mud wrestling is missing, that's 
 because it has been replaced with "QUEEN MATCH" MODE. QM mode is an stupid distraction from regular 
 matches. you're basicly doing the same thing in regular matches, but wait! if you win your opponent 
 has to... limbo? or get tickled... i'm sorry but this is dumb. i know this sounds great guys but 
 trust me, it's not. you can earn cash in matches, but that's pointless also, mainly since you have 
 to buy the sound test in the option menu! why? i don't know, but this game's a waste of time and 
 money. there's not much here, wich may explain why it bombed on the ps2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 13, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I really didnt think too much of this game until a friend showed me it. Ever since then I've been 
 hooked. So now I'm trying to unlock all alter-egos. I must say it is a cheep thrill game, but after 
 a day of playing it all you can look at is the wrestling styles of the individual women. My favorite.... 
 thats tuff there are a few I like Aisha, Candy Cane, Clemente and Rieko. They all have some damaging 
 blows. On the graphic side there is allot of room for improvement. For one thing the hair movement 
 with the body is completely horrible. The game instruction booklet is "TERRIBLE", let people know 
 what there suppose to accomplish with the game. I had to spend allot of time on the internet just 
 so I know what to try to do in the game. Plus there is really no storyline like the PS2 version. 
 Overall it is a fun game to play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  I was hoping to find a hidden gem in this game, but all I found was a lot of nothingness. The game 
 itself is shallow, and boring with little to no replay value. During the stint in which I was playing 
 this game, I kept hoping for more depth, more moves, more of anything! I find it hard to believe 
 that this classifies as an Xbox360 game, the graphics arent that great at all, they are actually 
 quite mediocre... the blur effect was good on the original Xbox (to get around high rendering) 
 but now for a xbox360 game to try and use it.. What a waste... It is almost as if the developers 
 didnt even try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvernix
Rating: 5.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok, m If you know me, then you know I'm a big wrestling fan. I love them all.... even the not so 
 good ones. So, after missing the original Rumble Rose, I had to get my hands on XX, since I got 
 a hold on a Xbox 360. So, after manipulating BlockBuster, I got around to renting this game., At 
 First this game is VERY fun. Jump into it, the intros are flashy, animations are good, The sexy..... 
 stuff.... is great..... then it get's boring... pretty damn fast too. The game has pretty much nothing 
 to hold you there.... Games like this at least need somewhat of a storyline.... and I'm pretty sure 
 there is one in manual but you know how blockbuster is when it comes to manuals... and I think the 
 original one had a storyline of some sort. Something about "Highway to hell".... I think Reiko... 
 the dark Reiko said that.
  
  Pretty much EVERYTHING about the game get's old and borning VERY FAST.... sure, all games do that 
 eventually, but this one got old the same time I rented it.... what keeps me playing it??? the 
 XBL achevement points.
  AND EVEN THOSE ARENT REWARDING ENOUGH!! You win the championship.... keep in mind you need to win 
 at least 15 matchs, not to mention defeat the original characters that you start off with. And 
 who you fight is actually controlled by the CPU. It took me almost 5 hours of gameplay in order 
 to win my first championship. After all that, this is what I got
  
  "Dixie Clemets Single Champship - 10 AP"
  
  10!!!! So after about 7 to 8 hours of game play, 
 I recieved 20 AP and a new character.
  
  So now, like I said before, the only reason I'm to continue is for 2 reasons. One, XBL points... 
 and 2: 8.99 to rent a game. I'm GONNA play it. But I advise to skip over this one unless you wanna 
 rent it for XBL, and then you better get reason to endure some crap. Ya know what, I'm gonna try 
 and send this back and see if they have Elder Scrolls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4ever2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Most game magazine reviews have torn this game apart, claiming it would be a boring and pervert 
 game.
  Well, the gameplay itself is definetly much less deep than DoA or Tekken, but HEY, a game is about 
 fun. And when you can play a game for hours nonstop, I would definetly not say that is crap. I 
 played it for one week and usually play more than 3 hours a day because the ambition to unlock 
 characters , items and winning the champion belts is somehow much fun.
  The only downside of this game is, that the special moves are too easy to perform and unlocking 
 all the stuff is pretty tricky if you did not search for hints how to unlock them. 
  In my opinion, it is not fair to compare this game with Martial Arts games like Tekken or DoA, 
 since this is a wrestling game anyway, so the fighting styles and gamecontrols surely are much 
 different. It is fun to smack the opponents to exhaustion for a pinfall or a Humiliation KO. The 
 moves are easily to do and vary in situations when you have figured it out. 
  You think this game is pervert and sexistic?
  Well, what about all the Hip Hop videoclips then?
 
  Isn't that pretty normal nowadays?
  
  But I think you should rent it first because this is a love or hate game IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matadore
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  I'll be the first to say that Rumble Roses XX (RRXX) has its share of problems. But underneath 
 all that, there's a game that becomes addicting to play... and its not just to oogle the excessively 
 stereotypical fantasy women.
  
  As far as the problems go, the most aggrevating one is definitely the lack of storylines for the 
 single player mode... or simply the lack of direction period. As far as I know, there's no way 
 to predict when you're going to get a title match, which can get frustrating after a while. I've 
 played almost 60 matches with Reiko, and I have yet to fight the last character I won the title 
 with. But eventually, somehow, you will get one. The PHM matches (or something like that) are really 
 difficult to finish, but other than that, it shouldn't be too difficult to kick a little bootie. 
 Another thing that's just flat-out annoying are the character intros for the Arena and Red Valley. 
 Some aren't that bad. Some actually fit the character. But what's up with all this weird Japanese, 
 "Pokemon" garbage for characters like Aigle? I mean, she's being followed by a huge M&M up to the 
 ring?! Why?? The only ones that half-way make sense are the ones that are related to "American" 
 characters. These other characters need to re-evaluate their intros. The beauty of it is if you 
 hold down the L Trigger and press A when its on the "vs" screen and you're playing a singles match, 
 your intro will be switched with the one you're playing.
  
  I like the customization options for all the characters, although I wish there was more to it than 
 there actually is. More costumes and more control over their appearance. (Instead of selecting 
 preset hair, be able to change it to the way you want it, etc.) The "Superstar" versions of each 
 character is also a nice little bonus, which also means another outfit you can wear... but only 
 as the "Superstar" version of your character, and you can't make any changes to the outfit.
  
  The game is pretty easy to pick up and get into... so even a beginner can button-mash their 
 way to victory. The sounds are decent, and the graphics... well, you'll have to make your own opinion 
 on that. Overall, I'd say its a strong wrestling title that can stand with any other... with a 
 heavy side of sexual references. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Attitude2000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 24, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  The game plays like a dumbed down Smackdown, as Yuke's helped Konami in the development. There 
 are your head grapples, leg grapples, and side grapples, but the movesets are really small. While 
 there is the occaisonal slam and dropkick, a lot of moves are very acrobatic and high-flying, ala 
 Lucho Libra or Ultimate Muscle, and submission holds usually consist of what would appear to be 
 an intercourse position, complete with the ability to choose your camera angle.
  
  This is the first Xbox 360 game I purchased. I didn't even rent it. I played the first on PS, and 
 I said, "if you could create someone, that would make this complete." Well, it still isn't complete. 
 This "create-a-wrestler" is the simplest thing since what came on WWF Smackdown for the PS, which 
 consisted of switching heads, bodies, and legs, between superstars to make some bizarre creation. 
 I liked to put Chyna's head on Debra's torso and legs and make her really tall. But that's beside 
 the point. The thing is, it's barely more detailed than that, consisting of changing skin, hair, 
 eye and lip colors, and hair style (anime friendly) . You can change costumes (just like with the 
 default characters) , or put on swimsuits. But they only come in sets rather than a top piece, a 
 waist piece and shoes like I expected, which hampers possibility.
  
  Which brings us to how to unlock them. There's no story this time around... simply pick a person 
 and beat all comers for an opportunity for the title. It's easy, but rather tedious with strange 
 conditions it doesn't tell you about, forcing you to unknowingly fight redundant matches. Unless 
 you're the kind of person who likes those Namco fighters where half the roster is locked and you 
 have to play like a million fights to unlock everyone.
  
  As you win, you get RR (currency) to buy the extras; however to me they seem expensive. At least 
 in that aspect I guess the game has tons of replay value. There's also live, but I don't have that 
 so I can't comment.
  
  At least it looks nice. The girls are um... very "realistic," and all your standard wrestling staples 
 (ring, arena, entrance) all look great in their Xbox 360 glory. The textures and lighting are amazing, 
 as I don't think this was possible in the first version. Though the entrances are a little over 
 dramatic and oversexed... more like cutscenes than entrances. The game sounds okay, the wrestlers 
 having J-Pop themes which to me are kind of catchy. If you disagree, this is what custom soundtracks 
 are for.
  
  In summary, it's a simple and fun wrestling game, and if you like to watch women fight, it's worth 
 a purchase. Though it may make some people feel uncomfortable or you may just be too righteous 
 to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YankeeDan345
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot's review for this game is WAY off. They listed the creepy softcore porn side of this game 
 as a negative. DID YOU PLAY THE GAME!!! THAT'S THE FRIGGIN POINT. This game is exactly what it 
 claims to be, hot babes wrestling. If you don't like that, stop reading about this now.
  
  Gameplay wise this game is a solid wrestler, and I normally hate wrestlers. The online co-op is 
 the best part, if you've got a buddy to hook up with and play co-op alot this game can be really 
 fun.
  
  The customazations a little thinner then I expected, but still good enough to allow you to personalize 
 your character. Alot more so then Tekken 5, for example.
  
  Theres no story thank god. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cynicalundead
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  Flashy graphics, weak game play. Poor execution. Reminds me of Ready2Rumble boxing for Dreamcast. 
 A rushed launch game with the same abysmal qualities. This game proves that good graphics do not 
 a good game make. Minus the neat filters on the Roses' clothes and such, the graphics are only 
 a step further that say- Soul Calibur on Xbox. And what's up with the ability to change the camera 
 angles during submission moves? I guess a novelty like that would be ideal for pre-pubescent boys 
 and perverts. I am surprised that Konami would release a game of this sub-par quality. 
  I really wish they would make wrestling game with the same game play mechanics as WCW/ NWO Revenge 
 for Nintendo 64. That game was fun, easy to play and offered countless hours of multi-player fun. 
 I have high hope for the upcoming Raw vs. Smackdown! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Felled
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Shallow, But good looking. 
  I prefer it as a demonstration for XBox360 rather than a game that can let you enjoy for a long 
 time.
  Collectible costumes are not enough and every character share the same choices. Once you finished 
 a character, I wonder anyone would like to try the others because it`s so boring to earn the money 
 and popularity to unlock costumes.
  After few hours of playing, The game experience will become to :
  1. Pick up one from 5 kinds 
 of rings.
  2. Waiting for the game to load.
  3. Use Kill move or Lethal move to Pin fall the opponent in 30 seconds.
  4. Earn 1500 bucks.
 
  Repeat from 1....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:26 pm PT
Review:  well when i first saw Rumble Roses Double x i think "wow it amazing seminaked chicks fighting
 so i borrow it from a friend who has it and i started to play i choose my gril and went to a fight 
 ... 
  ... 
  ... 
  ... 
  ten minutes later i was thinking this is a piece of cheap sex it dont have a good story the control 
 is bad only one button to hit and one to grab it is too simple for me and very boring. so i went 
 to the online mode thinking well is just maybe like DOA$ sucks for one person but is good in multiplayer 
 but surprise surprise i was the only guy in the whole online community playing rumble roses XX 
 i feel very stupid and the achivments are long to get and they gave to you very few points it sucks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 5
Date: May 28, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  Rumble Roses XX is the follow up to rumble roses, a game I didn't play. Officially it's a wrestling 
 game, but really... it's a glorified t&a show.
  
  Gameplay - There was gameplay? Seriously... the game play was very basic, and it seemed to depend 
 a lot on luck. I could fight as the same girl against the same girl in three matches and either 
 I would kick her butt, or the otherway around when suddenly she counters EVERYTHING I do.
  
  Graphics - I really expected better of the graphics... the lighting was poor (to bright) , and 
 the graphics seemed a bit blurrier then I expected for a 360 title. And what was with the girl's 
 and the streams of what looked like gas?
  
  Sound - Actually the sounds were pretty annoying, but at least they were quality annoying.
  
 
  Overall - If you have to get it, rent it... and hopefully with a gamepass or gamefly so you can 
 return it and not lose you money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosyoasp
Rating: 4
Date: May 24, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  this game is really disgusting game is terrible is a game 
  
  the graphics are good (is on xbox 360)
  
  the music regular (one song of akira yamaoka great 
 )
  
  the game in general the controle is horrible the game es bore and so slooooow! the girls are terrific 
 but doesnt work in this title 
  
  if you have it burn it if you want to buy think twice 
  
  take my advice if you want to dead playing a game buy this one 
  
  how microsoft authorized 
 this game is awfull and 
  
  but if you like wrestlin buy it if you dont better try call of duty 2 (awesome) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_boulanger
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 18, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical about this game, especially after reading its review and the review of 
 its predecessor. But I decided to give it a try because I like fighting games.
  
  Let talk about the obvious: the women characters. Frankly, I think they "overdid" it. I would have 
 appreciate a more serious approach to the character's background and story (like you see in other 
 fighting games) , instead of relying only on the physical side. Geez... not everybody is a 15 year 
 old teenage boy.
  
  Anyway, I looked at most of the presentation and decided that it's best to disable all the presentations 
 and go directly to the game itself. (It makes loading times shorter) .
  
  Now for the gameplay. First, it's a wrestling game. It's much slower than a normal fighting game 
 (like DOA or MK) . And it's for the best. It's been a while since I had time to think about my move 
 during the match rather than relying on reflexes and button mashing.
  
  The fight itself is not difficult once you get used to the characters. They all have basic standard 
 moves, plus some specific for each character. They are not difficult to execute after few matches 
 of practice. Once you have discovered a good combination for a character, going for the title is 
 easy. It's just very long, and it soon becomes very boring. I had most of my fun trying to discover 
 the different moves of each character. But when you know them, you simply lose interest.
  
  The most disappointing part of the game is the lack of a structured career mode. You choose your 
 fighter and then fight at different arenas. At a certain point in time, you will be able to fight 
 for the title. That's it. No other reward than cash, costume or unlocking a character, no story 
 ending, no nothing. Very disappointing.
  
  Load time are also annoying. It's a long loading time when you select an arena (if the fight is 
 a 3 or 4 fighters match, it's even longer) . Loading the presentation (if you did not disabled it) 
 is even worst.
  
  Conclusion: it's fun... for a while. The slow paced action is a refreshing change from the button 
 mashing of DOA, but the presentation and the lack of a good career mode does not compensate for 
 that. This is a "rent one night" type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilentDeath777
Rating: 7
Date: May 18, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Rumble Roses XX is a all female wrestling game. If your wanting to know what the story is, I can 
 make one for you. Women from around the just want to wrestle in skimpy customs. Rumble Roses XX 
 is not for your fast paced fighting game fans. The fighting you do here is much more slow, even 
 in the street matches. You want to know the back story or of the characters? To bad, no even the 
 manual gives you hint on who these women are. There is not that much to do other than wrestle. 
 That is all. Which is disappointing because even the PS2 "Rumble Roses" had a story mode. It wasn't 
 the best but it gave you a reason to want to switch your character. 
  
  The modes are also not that great. There is a Queens match where the loser will be humiliated by 
 being dropped in a pool or having to meow like a cat on all fours (there are more) . There are lots 
 of customs for the girls but they are the same for girl so what is the point? You can make your 
 own wrestler, but looks to much like a walk Barbie doll. It nice to have but no matter what all 
 the create a wrestler all still look the same.
  
  The game is pretty, anyone with eyes can see that, just it doesn't really do more than look pretty. 
 If your a fan of wrestling/Anime girls, you might have a few hours of enjoyment. The rest of you 
 better get "Dead or Alive 4" or wait for "Mortal Kombat : Armageddon" for a better fighting game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 7, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Who says there aren't enough positive roles for women in video games? Rumble Roses XX is like a 
 virtual fair of jobs. Why, there is a nurse, a cowgirl, a ninja, a....... uhhhhhhhhhhhh.......... 
 p-o-r-n-s-t-a-r. See ladies, you can be anything you want! But seriously, if you think women are 
 going be offended by this title and start to protest, there is a safe bet you are right. The concept 
 of Rumble Roses XX is as simple and adulterated as ever before. There is a roster of half-naked 
 ladies that you can wrestle, and you earn money along the way. Your hard-earned moolah can be used 
 for more ways to "spoil" these girls, such as skimpier outfits, photo shoots, and enjoyable moves. 
 The cheesy and yet oh so entertaining story mode is cut out this time out, which makes this game 
 both sleazy and quite pointless. (Except maybe for the chronic masturbator.) Unlocking newer versions 
 of a character is done based on how much people like them, but this feature is so poorly designed 
 that you never feel like you are working towards any goal whatsoever. XX's problems also grow over 
 to the combat system. Some moves take the gamer out of control for a while, as the character goes 
 through several revealing stages to apply to a very simple sleeper hold. Clearly, this game was 
 made to be more of a movie than to be played. Online play and character customization is included, 
 but none of the content adds up to counteract the pointlessness of this title. The four-player 
 modes are super-crazy and confusing, and there are only a handful of venues to fight in. Then there 
 is the appaling photo mode-rotating the camera around partially nude digitally pixelated women 
 with dead eyes and vibrating sex doll bodies is wayyyyyyyyyyy more creepy and scary than sexy. 
 While the first Rumble Roses game was rather decent, XX simply feels boring and dull, and a little 
 offensive. Unless you are a pornography fan, you should stay very far away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazedColombian
Rating: 4.3
Date: Apr 27, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  one of the worst games ever.... not only is it the same thing as the ps2 version in terms of presentation..... 
 It seems like soft core porn....
  
  all it does is give random panty shots, i mean im not a 5 yr old kid who thinks thats cool. I didnt 
 think this game had any thing going for it at all.
  
  Gameplay, Graphics, Replay value all suck
  
  I played this gme for about 10 mins and was like 
 wow this sucks and put it down.... just glad i gameflyed it and didnt purchase it.....
  
  people who own the 360 dont have alot of choices but this game is pure crap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukoAsho
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  No one went into this game expecting the greatest wrestling game in the world. Smackdown! vs. Raw 
 2007 is coming out in a few months for that. What people were expecting was a sexy, silly romp 
 with the Roses, and Rumble Roses XX delivers for the most part.
  
  The game adds a little challenge be making reversals much more difficult than in the original PS2 
 Rumble Roses. Instead of having a catch-all reversal button, players have to press block in conjunction 
 with either your strike or grapple button, depending on what you think your opponent is going to 
 come at you with. This creates a guessing situation where players must guess their opponent's moves 
 and learn their patterns to ensure successful reversals, which in turn boost up the humiliation 
 gauge.
  
  With the reversals made more difficult, the game now offers some measure of depth, but can only 
 really be enjoyed by putting the game in hard mode, as the other two modes have AI that doesn't 
 really give much fight in a match. With the game at hard, however, you'll be in much more challenging 
 matches. The only thing that messes up the experience is the fact that Killer Moves and H-Moves 
 aren't context sensitive. If you pull one on a standing opponent, a cutscene will appear for a 
 second, and when the action cuts back, the victim will be laying down. That needs to be addressed.
 
  
  Online play is included in the game, and for the most part, it's lag-free. However, spots of lag 
 will cause the game to freeze for a moment here, a moment there. [update] The delay in controller 
 response can adversely affect reversal or move timing. The game's online code can use some polish..
 
  
  Thankfully, the dearth of modes in Rumble Roses for PS2 is addressed here. While there aren't anywhere 
 near as many modes as in Smackdown! vs. Raw, there's certainly plenty of fun to be had, be it in 
 singles matches, tag matches (up to four players) , three-way and four-way battle royal matches, 
 and the Queen's Match. The first three modes are pretty much what you have come to expect from 
 the modes in Smackdown! vs. Raw, so the real novelty is the Queen's Match. This match takes place 
 in a beach setting, with the ring in the center of a shallow pool of water. While the match itself 
 plays out like a singles match, the interesting part is that the losing character has to endure 
 a humiliation event that is decided upon at the beginning, ranging from sexy poses to acting like 
 a kitten to being tickled by a giant hand attached to a stick. Yes, it's creepy. Unfortunately, 
 these portions aren't interactive, so there really isn't an incentive to win. Hopefully Rumble 
 Roses XXX will feature interactive humiliation games.
  
  What was taken away, however, is saddening. The mud match is gone. While the Queen's Match more 
 than makes up for it in terms of sheer voyueristic delight, I would have loved to see if the mud 
 could have been rendered better with the 360's power. Also, the story mode from the original game 
 is gone. I don't know about anyone else, but I loved how corny and cheesy the stories were for 
 the characters. In place of a story or season mode, players basically fight to build up money reserves 
 so they can buy a hot outfit or pose for the photo shoot (more on this later) . Match wins will 
 eventually lead to a title shot and a host of other reward matches, but there really isn't a clearly 
 defined criteria for earning these rewards, which can make trying to get the achievement points 
 in this game absolute hell. There needed to be more concrete, attainable goals to earn the unlockables/achievement 
 points, and other developers would do well to learn from this.
  
  Lastly, the perverse delight of this game is capped off with the photo shoot mode. In addition 
 to the costumes, money earned in matches can be used to buy poses for the characters to take in 
 a photo shoot, either alone or with a second character. During these shoots, you can manipulate 
 the camera every which way and take snapshots of your characters. In order to keep it nice and 
 communal, you can upload one picture at a time to share with the rest of Xbox Live, and can also 
 download the pictures submitted by other users. It's like being able to generate tons and tons 
 of softcore pornography with the ease of putting together a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. The 
 only regret is that it's impossible to transfer the photos from the 360 to a connected PC. That 
 would have been extremely awesome.
  
  As it stands, Rumble Roses XX is a fun little game for those who go in with the right expectations. 
 It's no Smackdown! vs. Raw, but it doesn't need to be. It's a fun, relaxing, and alluring game 
 for open-minded adults, and shouldn't be missed by those who like looking at the SI swimsuit issue. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukewind
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I just sat down with both hands on my controller mind you and played through Rumble Roses. I could 
 not bring myself to buy such a game so I rented it from Gamefly. 
  
  After kicking gorgeously rendered polygonal T&A for about an hour I realized something. This game 
 is really boring. The whole playing as a huge chested dumb blonde wrestler might sound appealing 
 but trust me, It's not!
  
  The graphics are good but it's obvious this game only uses about 10% of the 360's power. This game 
 was made just so that lonley gamers would have something to play with (bad choice of words sorry)
 
  
  The gameplay is uninspired and lacks any real depth. Unless you count chest physics. You can play 
 the game without much challenge and the multiplayer is littered with the kind of gamers you really 
 do not want to play with.
  
  So unless you are desperate for some T&A until DOAUBV comes out stay away from this game. It does 
 nothing new and does almost nothing right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOHBOY_87
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  at first wasent sure i would like it after i had heard a few people say the game wasent very good 
 and couldent find any rental stores that had the game so i went out and bought it, and i must say 
 the game is actully real good it has solid game play controls are easy to pick up there is how 
 ever one problem i have with it and that is, if you climb out of the ring on the oppiste side from 
 the camera its really hard to see when some one gets knocked down, and sadly you cant move the 
 camera unless you are doing a submission hold but the game is overall a good game i say give it 
 a rent atleast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irvinroach1
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  i like the girls and how they look i do i have the first one for ps2 
  and i like it the game play is a little weird getting use to but when
  you get it down pat your 
 good to go nothing could stop you but 
  what i didnt like they should of add a lot more belts and customs
  and unlockable stuff it was 
 to fast and east to get everything i 
  beat the hole game with every one in 1day in a half that was it
  and im not even a game feen 
 i just wanted to see what would happen
  like maybe they would give me some crazy music video with some 
  good nude stuff or a special 
 player with big boobs or some body from
  dead or alive a secret fighter or something but nope nothing that 
  totally sucks but this one 
 i dont really know i only played a little of it
  i wanna get this game and have it for my self and stop playing other 
  people thing hee hee.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neurothustra
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of wrestling games. In fact, my interest in watching wrestling directly correlates to 
 how good the most recent wrestling game is that I'm playing. n64 got me watching WWE again since 
 I had stopped as a kid (then WWF) . Many bad games and even Smackdown in the beginning sucked. But 
 it got good and rekindled my interest, again, in wrestling.
  Raw.
  Raw 2.
  WM21 - by now I'm no longer even watching wrestling.
  
  RRXX - hmm. DOA mixed with wrestling, 
 using the, now, superior Smackdown game engine?
  
  Okay, sounds promising.
  
  And the game looks good, despite the odd Japanese penchant for bad karaoke and the GODAWFUL female 
 announcer. This game looks really, really good. But I get the feeling that the version of the Smackdown 
 engine they're using mught be a bit dated or something. It seems like older Smackdown game complaints 
 resurface here - wrestlers never seem to stay down long enough even after a severe beating; a few 
 bad animations ehre and there, limited gameplay (gone is the in-depth grappling system seen on 
 the last 4 or so versions of Smackdown) . 
  
  The voyeuristic aspect doesn't bother me, and neither does the realistic (re: susceptible to gravity) 
 boobs; bu for the amount of attention the games gives to exploiting the hotness, I can't help but 
 think that the development time could have been putt o better use - like say, polising the wrestling 
 mecahnics or adding a real CAW, as opposed to the outfit exchange that currently exists. I do like 
 the Humiliation finishers though. I'm a perv.
  
  Everything I've mentioned so far doesn't make this game a disappointment, however. What does make 
 it disappointing is the disjointed and altogether aggrivating "campaign." It's not even a camapign 
 really, and it's difficult to describe. Let's say this: instead of a Photoshoot, Tropical post-game 
 humiliation stages and a Street Fighter arean, the game would have greatly benfitted from an improved 
 interface and cohesive storyline.
  
  Also, in the world of Xbox 360 - Achievements are no joke. The unexplained, uterly confounding 
 task of acquiring achivements in this game is a lesson in frustration and how *not* to implement 
 the Achievement system that ALL developers could learn from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  okay this game was not so good because it just was kinda dumb and stuff because you know a bunch 
 of perv guys are going to buy it but it like dead or alive without the fun fighting just the sex 
 and jiggling boobs wich is good to look at for about a couple minutes but then it is like i spnet 
 this much money on this game what was l thinking that becasue the game play is not so great did 
 not like the ifghting system seem slow and not fast enogh for me and half the gamplay is boobs 
 bouncing up and down and not very fair to women now is it the grphics are not so good the only 
 time they look like they put in time in on the game was the jiggle factor and the girls the sound 
 music wise is a guess okay bu the voice over sound like hookers of the street come in and did them 
 thats how bad rent it first because this dead of laive lcone gone wrong is not worth your money 
 and that was charlie word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIF
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 10, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty, I wanted to like this game because the concept is racy and has guts. Not many developers 
 outright advertise their product with sex the way this game did and are unapologetic about it. 
 It takes guts for a developer to do that in the land of hot coffee after idiotic politicians have 
 used a silly mod as a way to push their own political careers forward while sounding totally oblivious 
 and ignorant about games in the process. The minute I saw this game I wanted to play it and have 
 fun oogling and customizing my digital barbie and I say that knowing it sounds wrong and so many 
 levels. When i finally sat down to play the game and formulate my opinion, I found the game was 
 not quite what i expected or hoped for. 
  
  The graphics are great and impressive but once you start playing, you realize graphics aren't the 
 only important part of a good game. Its a hard game and you do have to know exactly what you're 
 doing so button mashers look elsewhere. The textures are low resolution even though the character 
 models are great. The animation is good as well but sometimes it can seem like your still playing 
 a game due to the jerky transitions between locks and the developer used too many lights in every 
 scene that everything and I mean everything looks washed out and too bright.
  
  Another thing, the story is nonexistant and the career mode menu seems desolate and unfinished. 
 Initially, the character editor is cool but limited and while upgrading and changing your character 
 is tempting, what is the use if there is no point to playing through the matches? There is NO STORY. 
 As far as the career mode menu is concerned, where is it?-I'm serious, its almost like we are seeing 
 a placeholder graphic for where the real menu should have gone. Was the development team aware 
 they didn't finish the menu? After seeing this and playing through a few hard matches, I realized 
 this game seems rushed and lacks polish. The menus are also problematic and not user intuitive 
 because I found myself lost and lost I was. When a fighting game doesn't have a purpose, in this 
 case a story, then what is the point of playing it? Even open ended games like Grand Theft Auto 
 have a story and a finale, why not this game? Why was the developer so lazy especially with such 
 powerful hardware and with a second chance to show people what you can do and what you're made 
 of?
  
  I know it was delayed but it still seems unfinished. I wanted to like this game with part of me 
 that felt Dead or Alive 4 was too tame and not racy enough but in the end I could NOT. The follow-through 
 is weak and makes the overall end product seem rushed and not worthy of my time. If a development 
 team doesn't care about their game enough to make good menus and polish their game, then why should 
 I care about the game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juanito5
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  RR XX is a sequel for the hated Rumble Roses.
  It doesn't change too much from it's anteccessor, in fact is almost the same with a weird street 
 "fighting" that sucks and feels like WWE Smackdown but with a square long arena and the same wrestling 
 moves that the normal mode.
  It also feaures a mode called Queen's Match that is the same wrestling mode but with humilliation 
 at the end.
  It kinda sucks.
  And you can play it online and upload your own photos, It is so "exciting" to upload photos of 
 the same girls and playing the multiplayer is also "exciting" with some slow downs and freezings.
 
  And the snapshotting part is cool if you're going to Playboy.
  And the achievements sucks, they really suck, the're too hard to get.
  So one question....
 
  Do you wanna a graphical game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berigie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  I have played this game more than any other since I puchased my 360 and I love it. It is all its 
 cracked up to be in my opinion and I look forward to playing it more and unlocking everything there 
 is to unlock. I owned the original game and liked it, and this is that just better and more. I 
 would recommend it to any wrestling game fan even if you don't like looking at the girls in skimpy 
 clothes. I forget about the skimpy costumes most of the time and get wrapped up in the gameplay 
 itself. I love it... period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 723-Saturn
Rating: 6.7
Date: Apr 6, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Rumble Roses XX is not the best game out on the Xbox 360 but it is a decent amount of fun gameplay. 
 Did I say fun? I mean for a while. RRXX can get repetitive at times but with the multipul fighting 
 styles. The character rooster is large but most of the wrestlers fight the same. The graphics are 
 impressive... not the best... but impressive. The characters a wonderfully modeled but the lack of 
 costumes can leave some players dissapointed. To unlock achievements can take quite a while. The 
 sound in the game have some good songs and some not so good songs. But with the function of the 
 Xbox Guide button you can listen to your own music. Over all RRXX is a fun game. I would recommend 
 renting or trying the game out before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagejessee
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  I've played the game a little and I don't really get into wrestling games to much but this one 
 kind of looked fun due to the models. The problem is that the gameplay is pretty boreing and the 
 characters are not very expressive in the actual gameplay. I would expect something like this on 
 XBOX or ps2 but for a nex-gen game this is worrible. I'll give it a little more time before I completely 
 give up on it but so far the lack-luster controls are what really steer me away from this one. 
 Mostly I'm writing this so someone will answer my question, Is there actually any nudity in it? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomamagic
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 5, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Not in my review. I rented this game, expecting more from the PS2 version. To my disappointment, 
 it was only enhanced in the visuals area. My first impression when I first started playing was 
 with a question . . ."what happened to the storyline?" Sure it was lame in the first Rumble roses 
 game, but at least I knew that I had officially "finished" with that particular character. Now, 
 it's no longer linear in the old fashion sense, but rather you can choose to wrestle in various 
 arenas and settings. Although visuals are good, I think it could have offered much more in the 
 gameplay area. Motion still feels stiff and not fluid enough. The ring announcer sounds a bit weird 
 and scary. To be quite frank, the game seems like it is trying to compete with Dead or Alive xtreme 
 beach volleyball, in the sense that you can play dress up with your character. The Japanese fetish 
 scenarios in Queen's match is funny in a weird kinda way. The free camera mode allows you to zoom 
 in on your character in various stretching positions and poses. I don't really understand the take 
 a photo of your character and trade it online gimmick. If you're looking to increase your gamer 
 points with this game, it will be tediously long. My first achievement consisted of about 38 single 
 matches before I unlocked Reiko's championship storyline. As you may assume, this game will consume 
 your time if you wish to unlock everything and not necessarily in a good way. Fun? To some extend. 
 Boring? Yeah, it will soon be stale, not enough variety. How's the online play? I haven't tried 
 it, b/c I'm too busy trying to unlock these darn time consuming achievements! My advice, rent it 
 first before buying if possible. This is a game with all eyecandy with very little to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepechidoone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  it is fun the first time you play it, but then you get kind of bored. but what it makes it good 
 are the next-gen graphics, because just look the girls. . . . . . . . . . .i've spent little time 
 playing me and i liked it, but it's your choice
  the gaameplay will make you have nightmares :S but maybe yo will play it just because the girls. 
 you should give this game a chance, but not all players will be happy with this game, this is just 
 what i think, but rent it maybe you can like it, maybe not so you decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 21, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Rumble Roses XX has it's ups and downs compared to the first title:
  
  Pros:
  -no more story mode with terrible, horrific stories and acting.
  -the gameplay feels 
 more solid
  -boob physic just got better!
  -new street fighting matches are great
  
  Cons:
  -the lack of story mode makes character "stories" difficult to follow
  -no real variety 
 of moves or combos
  -confusing layout (aka, hard to learn how to unlock stuff, figure out how to get title matches)
 
  -no more mud wrestling
  
  Graphics:
  Amaing graphics and detail in the character models. The backgorunds are good looking, but could 
 have used some work.
  
  Sound:
  Easily the worst part of the game. The voice acting is still bad (especially that announcer chick) . 
 For the most part the music is good, but nothing remarkable/remerable.
  
  Replay:
  Replay value is fairly high. After all, it is just a wrestling game. If you like to wrestle, then 
 you'll probably come back to play. Plus, the achievements to unlock will make you play the game 
 more, and at least once with all the characters.
  
  Overall:
  Definately better than the first Rumble Roses game, but there is still some things that need to 
 be worked on. Maybe Rumble Roses XXX (if it's called that =P) will make a more well balanced wrestling 
 system, with actual combos and such.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldFireFly
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 
  
  Some wrestling titles can get away with skimpy feature sets when boasting a professional license, 
 like the WWE for example. When using fictional wrestlers, youd better come correct, or be prepared 
 for a 1-2-3 in no time. The one area where Konami has done their homework is in character development 
 and design. The lovely vixens of the Rumble Roses XX roster are interesting from first glance and 
 downright gorgeous to stare at. Still, eye candy can only go so far. 
  Next up on the wrestling game checklist is controls. Rumble Roses XX uses a simple system of strikes 
 and grapples that are pick up and play, but also features a fair amount of depth for the hardcore 
 crowd. The X button executes the standard strike, and when used in conjunction with the analog 
 stick (or D-pad) , performs a kick. Subsequent taps will land combos, as long as the opponent doesnt 
 pull off a reversal. Grapples are mapped to the Y button, and when combined with the stick will 
 unleash upper/lower or standing variations. 
  
  The B button is somewhat of a context sensitive action that can be used to pin an opponent, climb 
 the turnbuckle, enter/exit the ring, or even to pick up weapons. This can get a bit tricky, especially 
 in corners when you want to go off the top rope, but a character will instead go for a pin. It 
 takes some getting used to, but this is certainly nothing new for wrestling gamers. 
  
  The right bumper acts as a block function and along with either a strike or grab move, will perform 
 a reversal. It is a clean-cut system that works well for the most part, although you are never 
 as efficient in reversals as the computer. Successfully executed moves fill a Finishing Gauge at 
 the top of the screen. Once filled, a few high-profile attacks are available, including Killer 
 and Lethal moves. The Killer is the more common of the two and can be used at anytime, any position. 
 The Lethal Move is dependent upon your opponents position, but can be devastating in a close match. 
 Killer Moves can be reversed when timed properly, but Lethal Moves cannot. 
  
  The H-moves, for Humiliation, dont have as much impact as wed like, but obviously are essential 
 in PHM (Pure Humiliation Matches) where the criteria for winning is executing the special move. 
 A second gauge displays the current humiliation status of a wrestler. When full, the camera pans 
 up along the girl, showcasing her shame, for a limited time. After that, its just a matter of 
 pulling the left trigger, and its H-move time! Being that H-moves can be reversed, and re-reversed 
 for that matter, this can be a fun time of back and forth action amongst two human players. 
  
  Finally, Double X moves refer to the games new tag team features  no, it didnt have a sexual 
 contextwe think. When in a tag match, if both characters possess a filled Finishing Gauge, a double-team 
 move can be unleashed. Again, the impact of the Double X move seems to hold more weight when playing 
 alongside a human teammate, but they are a welcome addition to the series nonetheless. 
  
  Graphics 
  
  Theres no doubt that the Konami and Yukes managed to create some of the most 
 seductive ladies to ever grace a videogame. Every character model, while over-the-top, is more 
 realistic than most virtual vixens. Physics obviously play a major role, especially topside, but 
 the animations are some of the best seen in a wrestling game. When a strike hits, you feel it. 
 When a wrestler thrown into a piledriver, you cringe. The transitions between each move still show 
 some flaws, but they are vastly improved over current-gen grapplers. The roster includes just about 
 any type of gal that could tickle your fancy. Costume variations also allows closet Barbie fans 
 to play dress-up with their favorite Rose. 
  
  The environments have obviously taken a backseat and there is little in the ways of choices. With 
 only five venues, one of which being the Street Fight location, a few additional venues could have 
 livened things up. There is extensive use of the depth of field filter to provide a next-gen feel, 
 and the number of onlookers hints at the power of the Xbox 360. 
  
  The Bottom Line 
  
  Dont let the skin and provocative positions fool you; Rumble Roses XX is a competent wrestler. 
 Like most games of this genre, once the initial visual appeal wears off, some of the cracks begin 
 to show. Despite the addition of tag matches, Battle Royales, and Street Fights, there simply isnt 
 enough depth to keep this hopeful at the top of the ranks. The playability is high, especially 
 amongst human combatants, but the single-player offering wears thin. Rumble Roses XX is a definite 
 improvement over its PlayStation 2 predecessor, but still has a ways to go before holding the championship 
 belt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_Ya_Ready
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is way better than the first in my own opinion. The best part is that there is a character 
 creator, and you will spend a lot of time there, it goes very deep... deeper than oblivion. Let's 
 break it down into the following categories:
  
  Gameplay: 8 : The game is a great, solid wrestling title. The reason an 8 was because it can get 
 a little repetitive, and you can also do a photoshoot and take pictures of your fighter. My favorite 
 thing they added was definitely create a character, it goes very deep; anywhere from their body 
 attributes, to their make-up, and to what they ware. But besides that, the wrestling is great, 
 and the more you do, the more points you get to buy things. It'll keep you hooked for hours to 
 come. 
  
  Graphics: 9 : They are solid, sleek and amazing, nothing left to say.
  
  Sound: 8 :The sound is great, but nothing amazing nor horrible... the one thing I didn't like was 
 that they kept the same theme music from the first.
  
  Value: 8 :This title is worth the $60, in my opinion, but it is a little pricey, but worth it.
 
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  Overall= 8.5, great game, not necesarily a "must have" but its a great game... watch out for the 
 "jigglies".
  
  _Justin_
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 1, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, some of the critical reviews of this game are too stingy. For while, yes, it has 
 it's flaws, somehow they don't stop this game from being a great deal of fun and entertainment. 
 Wrestling fans especially will enjoy it, but it's also a game anyone can pick up and get into without 
 any headache, even if they aren't experienced with wrestling games. It's a lot more forgiving and 
 less complex than the fighting game out on the 360: DOA4. Slapping your opponent silly and performing 
 a myriad of different submission holds is great fun, and amusing with such sound effects as cracking 
 bones. There is a fighting mode in addition to the wrestling modes. To add to the reward in winning 
 your matches, you win money that you may spend in the Store. You can buy things like new apparel 
 for the girls, artwork, and props. I like the fact that there are so many different characters 
 (although you never really get to know them very well due to no storyline, it's still fun to have 
 so many choices) and unlockables. The graphics on the game are gorgeous, total eye candy. Sharp, 
 brilliant, and impressive: definitely next-gen.
  
  As I mentioned, though, the game does not live up to it's potential. For one thing, there are no 
 storylines. Konami just doesn't get it. One of the big draws of wrestling, at least in the US, 
 are the wacky and entertaining storylines and the ways the different wrestlers interact. I sorely 
 miss that with this game. There's also no "backstage" wrestling, something that has been a welcome 
 feature in WWE games. And while there are some specialty matches in different locations, and a 
 couple of different types, like submission match and humiliation match, I really would have liked 
 to play more kinds: like a dumpster match with weapons or a cage match.
  
  Another problem with the game is that sometimes it really doesn't seem to have it's priorities 
 straight. There's so much explicit showcasing of t & a (no nudity, but very skimpy bikini bottoms 
 and some outfits that even a hooker wouldn't be caught dead in) . I don't get offended easily, in 
 fact, I wasn't offended at all by DOA4, but this game is borderline. I can tolerate it though because 
 the wrestling part is enjoyable enough that it's worth "looking the other way" when there's a chest 
 or a butt filling up my television screen. Put it this way - it's not done very tastefully, and 
 this game definitely earned every bit of it's "M" rating. Don't let your kids see this.
  
  Overall, if you're a casual gamer who doesn't buy a lot of games then your money would be better 
 spent on a game like Oblivion, GRAW, or Condemned. BUT if you already have the big games, buy many 
 games, and are looking for a fun addition to your collection, this will fit the bill. And if you're 
 a wrestling fan, it will tide you over fairly well until the next WWE game comes out. As long as 
 wrestling fans can live with the lack of cage and weapons matches and storylines they will enjoy 
 the wrestling aspect. But you don't need to be a wrestling fan or experienced with wrestling games 
 to pick up and have fun with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wydowmaker
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I as quite surprised at how addictive this game was when I rented it. Some of the 
 pro reviews have surprised me. After playing it for 3 hrs I returned Topspin 2 unopened to get 
 this game. I really do not understand how RRXX can be better than the first game but get lower 
 scores. This is not even close to the best game in the genre but it is easily the 2nd best to ever 
 come to the Xbox (Def Jam NY is Better) . While it is hard to ignore all the T&A, you will after 
 you get serious about unlocking things and after you start getting your @#$ handed to you be these 
 women. The wrestling and the graphics are easily the strongest parts of the game. More venues and 
 more original characters would have been nice but you will have a long road trying to unlock what 
 is already here. My only real complaint is that you have to wait 30-40 matches to get the title 
 shot. Since you really have no gaurantee it will happen even after all those matches, it kind of 
 feel like you are play for nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbo_prelude
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  this game was okay but i dont thinnk i will be buying this one cause after the first hour or so 
 it gets kinda boring hope they make another one thoe but they need to improve just a little thowe, 
 other than that it wuz an okay game i would recomened it to anyone looking for some quick action 
 and just whats to beat up on some one and its a much different pace from all the wwe games which 
 got old wheni wuz in the 7th grade lol you should rent or download before you buy it until next 
 time game on gamers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingchunstudent
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  What happens when you take a wrestling game like "Smackdown vs. Raw 2006" make the graphics 5x 
 better, but at the expense make the gameplay 5x worse. You have "Rumble Roses XX".
  
  This game could have been so much more. Don't get me wrong, if you like either wrestling or half 
 naked girls, this game's for you. Seeing as RRXX is the only wrestling game out for the 360, you 
 have little choice. 
  
  The game goes out of it's way to be uber-naughty, featuring girls that wear everything from fetish 
 wear to schoolgirl outfits. You can customize each girl or make one of your own. If all you wanted 
 to do was make hot girls in skippy outfits all day long, you'd have it made, but you want to wrestle 
 don't you.
  
  And that brings us to the wrestling. You can't edit moves, you can only edit styles. This makes 
 for a real dumbed down fighting game. Some of the moves are pretty impressive, but for the most 
 part you only have about 2 dozen or so moves per character. So if you are looking for an extensive 
 wrestling sim, this isn't it. 
  
  The game is simple, beat your opponent with strikes, grapples, submissions and 3 different types 
 of finishing moves. You can use weapons if you wish, but they don't seem to pack the punch of your 
 regular moves. You can counter fairly easily in the game, so once you get the hang of it, the games 
 is a piece of cake.
  
  So in short, it is worth a rent, if a wrestling game on the 360 interests you or if you just want 
 to see half naked chicks duke it out.
  
  I give it a meh, out of hmm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastnerd
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  I thought this game would be a (all looks-no skills) perverted wrestling game. But I was suprise 
 to find out how good the gameplay and wrestling moves were. I think most people hate on this game 
 because of some of material in it. I dont really care to much for all the girls in this game, I 
 play this game because no matter what the reviewees say, this is a good, solid, fun wrestling game. 
 Espeacially online. I think any fan of wrestling games should have this as part of their collection. 
 I usually agree with gamespot and ign reviews but I strongly disagree with their ratings for this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mainboard007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  First off I love wrestling games. The PS2 Smackdown series is ok but its a bit twitchy and fast 
 for me. I loved and prefer the Def Jam (Original) and No Mercy style games. On this note, RRXX 
 plays like a simplified Smackdown with a slower pace. You do not have to be a hamster on crack 
 to keep up with the game play.
  
  Secondly, I love games that have T&A in them. Outlaw Golf, DoA: BV, and Kingdom Under Fire just 
 to name a few. I say this because I want you, the reader, to understand where I am coming from. 
 I did not put RRXX in my 360 and expect anything but a T&A softcore show. Well I was very shocked 
 to find a really good wrestling game behind RR. It even plays very well! Remember RAW and RAW 2 
 on the xbox? It was a very poor game but people wanted to enjoy it. Well if RAW would have played 
 this well it would have beaten the Smackdown series without breaking a sweat. I am not saying RRXX 
 is the end all of wrestling games. I AM saying it plays like a dream and online is really fun.
 
  
  The single player is good but no real story line hinders it a bit in my eyes. Multiplayer is wonderful 
 and I would love to see some online leagues startup. Do I think it is for everyone? No. If you 
 love T&A and Wrestling you could do alot worse. I want to see better wrestling games on the 360 
 personally. Supporting RRXX will go a long way to showing the big Microsoft that we want it on 
 our 360.
  
  MY RATINGS:
  
  Fun (How much fun am I having) : Drool...
  
  Graphics (As relates to how well they help or enhance the game) : Beautiful
  
  Sound (How well 
 does the sound help the game) : Very Good.
  
  Longevity (How long is it and will I play it more than once. Including Multiplayer) : 5 Months or 
 So.
  
  BS Curve (How much bad hype, comments, and reviews have I heard of or read and agree with) : A little 
 bit.
  
  Gamer Target (Who this game is best suited for) : Wrestling Fans, T&A lovers, GLOW Fans.
  
  
 Similar games: Rumble Roses, Dead or Alive Beach Volleyball, and Outlaw Golf
  
  Final Grade: A very good game for wrestling fans but it will not make you a fan unless you love 
 T&A a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakandNina
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has gotten a variety of reviews, and scores from various websites. Some giving it 9's 
 and others giving it 6's. I simply don't agree with anyone who scored this game lower than a 7, 
 because it deserves more than that. 
  
  This game has simply breathtaking graphics, and environments. The gameplay could rival CG for most 
 other games on the market currently. The characters are very unique, and cute. The game brings 
 serious wrestling to the table, but with a comical and very "hoochie" twist. 
  
  All the wrestlers are females, which is ... awesome! The voice acting is awesome, btw. Every chara 
 has very elaborate, and extensive intros to the ring, that make the wrestling arena as flashy as 
 can be. 
  
  The actual fighting itself is very smooth, and interesting. There are reverals for nearly everything, 
 so that's interesting for the defensive players. There are 5-6 different kinds of special attacks 
 in single matches. The fighting can be compared to smackdown games, but I feel that its slightly 
 faster and a little more interesting. The online play is LAG FREE, nearly 90% of the time! 
  
  There are plenty of modes to choose from, and the online play makes the game awesome!
  
 
  The weakness of the game really is it's massive amount of secrets.... Many people still don't even 
 know how to unlock characters.... so that could be worked on more. 
  
  Overall, amazing game, and one should really give it a chance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Normally, I'd sit down to the computer like I am now and try to think how to write the most thorough 
 review possible for the game in question. Also, I've never written a review of a game on it's launch 
 day because I really like to see what a game has to offer before I log in my vote. Like Oblivion 
 for example. I spent two days with that one before finally comitting an awesome score to it. However, 
 with this.. uh... well, it's not really a game.. so I guess... I'll just say with this "disk", however, 
 it took about all of thirty seconds to have my vote ready. Here's the breakdown:
  
  Graphics: Nice. They look next-gen... and this is next-gen, so props to that I GUESS. I don't know 
 how having a really lifelike-looking bullfrog for your character to enter on really makes that 
 much of a difference though. But they're alright. I wish I had more to put here, but I really don't.
 
  
  Sound: Sound effects lack the impact needed in a wrestling game. Voice overs are annoying and repetitive. 
 Ring announcer needs to be choked out herself, and I for one volunteer to do it. 
  
  Control: If you're trying to counter a move, you're doing more wrestling with your controller than 
 you'll do in the game. Nothing feels right. It's hard to try and put it into words, but basically, 
 every button feels like it's assigned to the wrong action. Every.... last..... one.
  
  Gameplay: How to do a gameplay review on a game that has NO gameplay..... hmmm... seriously, there's 
 no gameplay here. Just pick a character and get involved in some of the world's worst wrestling 
 nightmares, er.. matches, ever. This whole game SCREAMS juvenile. Don't get me wrong, I mean, I am 
 all for putting beautiful women in video games. BUT, this is barely a game at all. It's more like 
 Konami decided, "Hey, check out how good our characters look. No story, no control, everything 
 else is total junk. BUT, don't they shine though?"...... (awkward silence) ..... so anyway, will someone 
 PLEASE tell me that this is not the fate of next-gen wrestlers? I have been convinced since the 
 disaster that was Wrestlemania on the original Xbox that Microsoft can't get a good (or even half-maybe-sorta-tolerable) 
 wrestling game on their platforms... and this game CEMENTS that fact. Of course, you could always 
 play online... with a bunch of 12 year old kids who will "pwn3d u so bad wit muh mad skillz. Your 
 MOM! OMFG BURNT NOOB!!!!11!#@!# Haxxorz PWN!!" Otherwise, you should throw this game one way as 
 hard as you can and run as fast as you can in the opposite direction. This game gets a 1 because 
 Gamespot says I have to give it that much. If I could, I'd just show a video of me doing the world 
 a favor and burning this game in it's case. If you haven't purchased this game yet, don't. If you 
 have, I'm sorry. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone with a pulse.. unless you can get it for 
 $1. Well.... no, because if you play your cards right, you could get a 20 oz soda for that... and 
 it's a much better deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 2.1
Date: Mar 28, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: The graphics (even though they are just a cleaner verison of the PS2 version) . 
  
  THE BAD: Everything else. The gameplay in this game is just terrible. Everything is recycled 
 from the PS2 version: the graphics, the gameplay, the characters. Instead of adding new features, 
 old ones are just recycled. Instead of fixing problems and making the game better from the previous 
 version, they are just taken out all together.
  
  This game is an insult to anyone who plays it. The developers of this game must really think that 
 gamers are stupid. This game solely relies on the shallow content, gearing the game toward people 
 who don't have much of a brain, instead of actually making a good game with good gameplay. This 
 game is a terrible piece of garbage. Steer Clear.
  
  If you are the kind of person that wants this game just for the eye candy, and nothing else, then 
 this game might be for you. If you want actual good gameplay, then stay away from this piece of 
 utter garbage. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
