-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Saints Row
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/saintsrow/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It successfully copies the oft-imitated-but-untouchable Grand Theft Auto formula.
 fun, responsive driving controls are as good as on-foot shooting action.
 impressive presentation, featuring amazing explosions and great audio.
 mostly well-written, well-acted story will compel you to keep playing.
 various little  features.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 In some ways, it will be familiar to a fault to anyone who's played much GTA.
 some noticeable bugs and glitches.
 not much variety to the mission design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.2, 90 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 12,935 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Volition Inc.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Aug 29, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Saints Row may look like just another Grand Theft Auto rip-off, but the rare quality of its action 
 and presentation make it stand tall on its own merits. 

  If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then Rockstar North, the developer of the Grand 
 Theft Auto series, should be very, very flattered by Saints Row. After all, developer Volition's 
 take on an open-ended criminal action game is almost criminally similar to GTA on first impression. 
 Like GTA, Saints Row offers much the same combination of driving and shooting action; it's set 
 in a fictitious, modern American city; it lets you run or drive pretty much wherever you want to 
 right from the start; it's got a ton of licensed music on the soundtrack; and it's got a sense 
 of humor that ranges from dirty to dark. But this superficial lack of originality only hurts the 
 game at first glance, if at all. As outstanding as the GTA games are, you'll find that Saints Row 
 is similarly enjoyable in many important respects -- and even better in a couple of key ways. That 
 is, like GTA, Saints Row finds its own careful balance between realism and fun. It's an exciting, 
 dynamic experience that's frequently rewarding and rarely frustrating and can keep you coming back 
 hour after shameless hour, as you cause mayhem throughout the rather large, detailed city of Stilwater. 
 What's more, a surprisingly entertaining storyline and a number of smartly designed gameplay features 
 make Saints Row a memorable game in its own right.  

          Saints Row may be comfortably familiar, but this is no two-bit knockoff. The game's got 
 plenty of excellent surprises in store.     

  You begin play by determining your character's appearance, and you have what seems like a limitless 
 number of options to choose from. There are presets for different ethnicities, but you can proceed 
 to make your character look however you want. It seems gimmicky at first, but since your physical 
 appearance -- at least your clothes -- do end up having some impact on gameplay, the sheer variety 
 during character creation is impressive. The game starts with you nearly getting caught in the 
 cross fire of a gang war. You're saved by Julius (voiced perfectly by Keith David) , the charismatic 
 leader of a racially diverse gang called the 3rd Street Saints, one of Stilwater's four biggest 
 criminal groups. And he invites you to join up. The game's introductory cutscene has a couple of 
 lines of painfully bad dialogue in it, suggesting that Saints Row will go on to bombard you with 
 horrible clichs and an appalling fake attitude. But, somehow, somewhere, the story gets really 
 good. Maybe it's the expressive characters and the excellent voice performances by the likes of 
 Michael Clarke Duncan, David Carradine, and others; or maybe it's the choreography of the cutscenes 
 and the quality of the dialogue. It's probably all of these combined. Saints Row isn't always clever 
 or funny, and in the end, the story will leave you hanging. Even so, for its occasional misses, 
 the quality of the game's writing and storytelling turns out to be one of the highlights.  

  The beginning of the game sets up how the gameplay experience itself is structured. There are 
 several different main story arcs for you to follow, involving the Saints' war against its three 
 rivals. Each enemy gang has its own identity, preferred vehicles, and major characters, and you 
 may attempt to take over their turf in whatever order you wish. However, you can't just jump from 
 one story mission to another. The game makes you earn "respect" before you can take on missions, 
 which is mostly a contrived way of forcing you to try out the many different ancillary activities 
 available in Saints Row, rather than just blowing through the story. This structure might seem 
 heavy handed at first, but since there are many fairly easy and entertaining ways to earn respect 
 in the game, it turns out to be more good than bad. The search for more respect will introduce 
 you to some of Saints Row's many amusing minigames. Though most all of them are fun, the best ones 
 are probably "insurance fraud," in which you must deliberately throw yourself into oncoming traffic 
 as violently and in front of as many witnesses as possible, and "mayhem," which simply tasks you 
 with causing as much death and destruction as possible within a certain time limit.  

          Anything goes in the city of Stilwater. The object is to get your gang to take over, by 
 any means necessary.     

  The reason basic activities like rescuing hookers and defending drug dealers going on their equivalent 
 of a paper route are entertaining in Saints Row is because the game has rock-solid driving and 
 shooting controls. The game's action is gleefully and appallingly over-the-top to the point of 
 being silly, though the liberal use of profanity and adult content in the script earns this game 
 its M rating with honors. The dozens of different cars in the game not only look great but also 
 have distinctly different handling characteristics, yet they're all quite easy to steer through 
 tight turns and oncoming traffic and so forth. What's more, the game is filled with truly spectacular 
 explosions and a good selection of guns. Also, you'll frequently get to fight alongside up to three 
 computer-controlled "homies," who'll do a thoroughly competent job of following you around and 
 helping you kill whoever's shooting at you.  

  With the exception of a few fairly tough story missions and higher-level side missions, the game 
 is very forgiving. Your character's health automatically regenerates if you avoid taking damage 
 for a while, and you can suffer a lot of punishment before you die anyway. Also, you can carry 
 health-restoring food items around with you, but even if you do get smoked during a mission, you're 
 then conveniently prompted to start it over from the beginning, instantly. The alternative, when 
 you die, is a quick trip back to a hospital, from which you can easily carry on. The game is awfully 
 nice when your friends die, too. If you have allied gang members following you around and one of 
 them gets knocked out, you've got 30 seconds in which you can instantly "revive" the guy (by pouring 
 a 40 oz. beer on him, which may or may not be dumb) . While this sure beats having to restart a 
 mission because a computer-controlled character got himself killed, the system is really too generous 
 since it effectively makes your allies invincible.  

  Saints Row offers some other conveniences that are on the verge of being innovations, most notably 
 in its map system. Your onscreen minimap doesn't just point you in the general direction of where 
 you need to go (if you have a mission objective) ; it shows you an optimal path to get there. This 
 makes navigating Stilwater's streets, especially during high-speed chases, much simpler than in 
 similar games, where finding your way around a city can be as tough as evading the authorities. 
 Also, the game's main map can be instantly brought up at any time at the touch of the start button, 
 and you can always set a waypoint from wherever you are to wherever you want to go. Saints Row 
 even lets you save your progress whenever you want, and your hideout can be magically used to store 
 dozens of different vehicles and an unlimited supply of basic weapons. All of these little things 
 add up to make Saints Row, in a couple of words, very playable. You get to spend your time in this 
 game getting to places you want to go and undertaking action-packed missions, rather than getting 
 stuck in trial-and-error ruts, getting lost, staring at a lot of loading screens, or feeling like 
 you're not making progress.  

          Though the world of the game may look real and believable, the realism doesn't get in the 
 way of fun, pick-up-and-play action.     

  Much like GTA's world, the world of Saints Row looks a lot more realistic than it really is. You 
 can safely ignore all traffic laws, and even if you do start to commit wanton acts of unprovoked 
 violence, there's little real consequence. This doesn't mean it isn't fun to stir up trouble, though, 
 such as by holding up a liquor store or driving down a busy sidewalk. Getting into serious trouble 
 takes a little work, as the cops won't come after you for speeding or running red lights or anything 
 like that. In fact, they'll ignore you even if you jump on the hood of one of their squad cars 
 with a shotgun in hand. It takes a fairly deliberate and violent act to draw the authorities' attention, 
 and you also need to watch out for rival enemy gang members, who may come after you in increasing 
 numbers should you start killing their own. This can make for some exciting pitched battles, when 
 your gang, an enemy gang, and the cops are all having it out. If you've got some gang members with 
 you, they'll shoot automatically while you drive around, and some sequences (predictably) put you 
 in the gunner position while a computer-controlled character does the driving. You can even shoot 
 and drive at the same time, though it's hard to concentrate on both steering and aiming.    

  The game plays up its gang-warfare angle quite a bit. Sometimes rival gangs will attack your districts, 
 prompting you to head there and take out enemy lieutenants or else lose your grip on the territory. 
 You'll also get to raid enemy strongholds, which take the form of action-packed on-foot shooting 
 missions. Especially since the minimap shows you all enemies in the vicinity, it's not difficult 
 to take on vastly superior odds, but these missions still make for a satisfying diversion from 
 all the driving around. Some nonviolent activities are available, as well. The game tasks you with 
 spraying over rival gangs' graffiti around the city, as well as finding hidden music CDs strewn 
 about all corners of the map. You can shop for new clothes and jewelry, as well as customize your 
 cars with a wide variety of accesories, a couple of which -- nitrous and hydraulics -- are functional, 
 not just cosmetic. You can also use your cell phone to dial up phone numbers you'll see advertised 
 around Stilwater, which leads to a few amusing gags.  

          You can make the game's main character look however you want. You can even visit a plastic 
 surgeon if you later change your mind.     

  Saints Row is most similar to 2001's Grand Theft Auto III, in particular. Vice City and San Andreas 
 each had their own distinct senses of style, their own protagonists, and their own extras that 
 substantially added to GTA III's formula. In turn, the scope of Saints Row's content is similar 
 to that landmark game. There are a ton of different cars you can steal and drive, but there aren't 
 any motorcycles on the road, no boats to be driven out in the bay, and no planes to be flown. GTA-style 
 taxi missions, police vigilante missions, and ambulance rescue missions aren't in here, and for 
 some reason, Stilwater has no fire trucks in it (though it does have meter maids doling out parking 
 tickets) . The setting of Stilwater feels big at first, but you can drive from one end of the city 
 to the other in just a few minutes (if you drive fast, of course) . There are a decent number of 
 cars on the road and people on the streets, but it gets nowhere near as dense as the sort of gridlock 
 you get in real-world cities. Of course, you'll almost never encounter a locked car door, either. 
 The city itself is similar to GTA III's Liberty City, since it seems like any major American metropolis, 
 with all the various types of districts you'd expect and a few bridges and highways tying it all 
 together. You even play as a silent "everyman" protagonist throughout the game, who interacts with 
 the other characters in the story mostly by nodding in acknowledgment. And there's a great classical 
 music station on the radio, among others.  

  The game's lack of originality is probably the worst thing that can be said about it, but Saints 
 Row does have some other shortcomings. For instance, it doesn't have much in the way of mission 
 variety. Since driving and shooting are the two main aspects of play, there are only so many different 
 variations on these themes that the game is able to cook up, and you've probably seen most of it 
 before in other games. Saints Row is a satisfyingly long game that'll probably take you about 20 
 hours to get to the end of the main storyline, but while you'll likely have many activities left 
 to do and only around a 60 percent completion rate by that time, you won't necessarily feel compelled 
 to keep doing the same types of missions over and over again. Thankfully, the game makes good use 
 of unlockable achievements, which may entice you to dig deeper into the minigames and other minor 
 tasks, as well as the multiplayer mode.  

          A lot of stuff blows up real good during the course of Saints Row. Each explosion is its 
 own reward.     

  Saints Row features a complete multiplayer component for up to 12 players, playable online or via 
 system link. There are a variety of modes of play, most of which are familiar in concept. There's 
 "big ass chains," in which players must gun each other down and drop each others' necklaces off 
 at certain points on the map. The more necklaces you're carrying before you drop them off, the 
 bigger you score, forcing you to decide just how many necklaces are worth risking your neck for. 
 There's also a round-based mode in which one team must escort a pimp to safety while the other 
 team tries to mow him down. The pimp is unarmed, but his slap is deadlier than concentrated fire 
 from an assault rifle. There's a pure deathmatch mode and a team-based variant, and there's also 
 a mode in which teams must fight each other to try and upgrade their cars as quickly as possible. 
 Finally, there are a couple of two-player cooperative missions, in which you and a friend must 
 team up to take on lots of computer-controlled gang members. We experienced noticeable lag in larger 
 multiplayer matches, though the co-op missions played smoothly.  

  The game doesn't give particularly good feedback for when you're taking fire, resulting in situations 
 where you'll drop dead for no apparent reason. This also means the gunplay during multiplayer doesn't 
 pack much of an impact. However, probably the biggest issue with the multiplayer part of Saints 
 Row is that it takes the shooting and driving out of the context of an open-ended gameworld, leaving 
 behind unremarkably straightforward action. It's possible to form a "gang" of players -- like a team 
 or a clan -- and compete against other gangs online, and you can also furnish your multiplayer character 
 with different clothing and accessories. The prematch lobby even lets you run around blasting whoever 
 else is in the room, and there's a really great announcer, to boot. But these types of features 
 don't make multiplayer Saints Row comparably as good as the single-player portion. You get the 
 impression that the multiplayer portion was sort of thrown in, especially since the game's pretty-looking 
 but not-very-useful manual barely even mentions it.  

  At least during the single-player portion, Saints Row features an impressive presentation that's 
 deeply tied to what makes the game compelling -- it's like a marginally slicker Grand Theft Auto, 
 especially if you play it in HD. For a scummy-looking city, Stilwater sure is pretty, thanks partly 
 to realistic weather and lighting effects and all the excellent-looking cars on the road. Some 
 of the cars look like old pieces of trash on their last remaining miles, while others are high-performance 
 roadsters, and there's seemingly everything in between. And they all blow up very nicely indeed, 
 spraying metal and tires everywhere as the carcass of the vehicle launches into the sky -- an effect 
 that doesn't cease to be entertaining even after you've seen it hundreds of times. Unfortunately, 
 there are noticeable and ugly graphical glitches that crop up from time to time, especially in 
 certain areas where level geometry or textures will seem to pop in and out wildly. Also, cars can 
 be seen materializing on the horizon, especially on the freeway, or sometimes disappearing for 
 no obvious reason. The frame rate, while mostly stable, sometimes gets significantly slow and choppy 
 when there's a lot going on.  

          Who'd have thought getting swept up into an all-out gang war (or another GTA-style game) 
 could be so much fun?     

  The game's audio may not stand out quite as prominently as the visuals, but it's even better. The 
 sounds of gunfire and car crashes are wincingly loud, and the game makes excellent use of surround-sound 
 audio systems if you have one. One particularly great effect is how you can hear muffled music 
 playing on a particular car's radio while outside. Hop in that car, and then the sound's all clear. 
 The voice performances of the main cast are uniformly excellent, and there are a number of great 
 radio stations featuring a terrific selection of artists, ranging from Iggy Pop to Wagner and from 
 De La Soul to Ratt. You'll almost certainly find a couple of stations you really like, and the 
 game even lets you create your own playlist of songs, which you can listen to anytime during gameplay -- not 
 just while in a car.  

  Games don't have to be different to be great. What makes Saints Row appealing straight off the 
 bat is that, assuming you're familiar with the wildly successful GTA series, you'll know exactly 
 what you're getting into from the moment you jack your first car in this game. And the experience 
 must have been deliberately designed with this in mind. By playing with a few of GTA's storytelling 
 and design conventions, and addressing a few of the gameplay issues we've come to expect as a necessary 
 part of the GTA formula, Saints Row earns its own colors and makes for a welcome addition to just 
 about any R-rated-movie-watching Xbox 360 owner's library.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1079 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: readmatt007
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  I personally loved this game from the start sure the graphics aren't the greatest but dont get 
 me wrong they still good they could just use some work.
  I have to say the gameplay is very fun with lots of activity's to keep you busy while your not 
 doing missions activitys include Racing insurence fraud were you deliberately throw your self in 
 front of traffic. SOUNDS FUN dont it well thats just the start wait for it ... You even get To 
 create your own character and customise your cars how cool is that ay.
  
  Now that combined with a great story line makes a really fun game I hope this review was help full 
 and if you get this game enjoy cause i did i even brought the sequel
  
  My ratings are as follows Graphics 7.5
  
  gameplay 8.0
  
  replayability 7.5
  
  Physics 
 7.0
  
  obviously my overall is 8.0 as stated above 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row it the best sandbox game in my opinion. What I like most about the game is you can customize 
 your guy, your car, and buy your own clothes. I like everything about this game; the shooting, 
 the driving, the customizing, the graphics, the free roam, the storyline, and the side missions. 
 I actually find this better than Grand Theft Auto. Your garage can hold around fifty cars, and 
 there is so many guns to choose from. You can get special weapons and vehicles for completing the 
 activities which I like because in most game you don't get a reward for anything. The ending stinks 
 but you can free roam after you complete the game which keeps me occupied for hours. The cut scenes 
 are hilarious, and the single player is long. I hate the multiplayer but I don't really care much 
 about that. What's really amusing about this game is you can smoke and drink then the screen will 
 get blurry and eventually your guy will puke. It is an amusing game and I recommend it to anyone 
 that has an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassimoMoretti
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2009 7:39 am PT
Review:  The first thing I have to say is that I will not say GTA in every sentence because this game is 
 so much better than any GTA game hands down. The only thing I have to mention regarding GTA in 
 graphics is the fact that Rockstar North has been around for a decade releasing the best selling 
 game of all time, Volition is extremely unknown compared to Rockstar. So it's impossible to compare 
 the games, because to budget for both games are extremely different. It's like comparing the special 
 effects of a movie from the 80's and a modern movie. Well on with the game. Saints Row starts and 
 places you with a created character from a good character creation selection, and then you are 
 walking around your Neighborhood in the Story when you are right in the middle of a massive gang 
 fight that leads to you being saved by "Julius". The leader of the Third Street Saints. You later 
 join the saints and have to take over the city crushing all rival gangs. (That's all I will say) 
 This game does not take itself seriously at all, it's extremely funny and over-the-top. THQ's Destroy 
 All Humans has proven that this can play out well and work. Some jokes can seem immature, but it's 
 virtually impossible to play the game without breaking out laughing at just how insane and random 
 this game is. You will try not to laugh but it's really hard. There are a lot of things in Saints 
 Row that will make watching someone play just as fun as playing. One of the main things that will 
 make people love this game are the activities. The activities are basically different mini games 
 that will add many hours of gameplay and enjoyability to Saints Row. You will partake in "Insurance 
 Fraud" a game where you will throw yourself into traffic to make money for breaking bones. Also 
 "Mayhem" where you will you have a set time to destroy or kill as many things in your way. "Racing" 
 "Escorts" "Hitman" "Hijacking" "Snatch" and "Chop Shop" are all as they sound. All of these activities 
 will grant you Respect which you need on a certain level to complete the Story Missions. The city 
 is completely open for you to Buy or steal cars and customize with a wonderful selection of options 
 at "Rim Jobs" a Car Mechanic. You can buy a large selection of Guns and Throwing-Melee weapons 
 at "Friendly Fire". There are a lot of Stores in Stillwater that let you buy Songs for your Mp3Player, 
 buy new clothes, jewelery, Liquor, Drugs, visit a plastic Surgeon to recreate your character. Also 
 visit a drive through to buy fast food, to regenerate your health. Your health does regenerate 
 but sometimes you will be under two much gun fire and need something to boost your health up quickly. 
 Well that's all there is to say about Saints Row it's a great game and should not be missed by 
 anyone. Overall (8.5/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socal982
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 7:32 pm PT
Review:  In one sentence:
  I bought a 360 for and because of this game.
  
  Pros
  - The Possibilties of Custom Person, Clothes and Rides
  - I liked the Control, loose but on point 
 at the same time.
  - You can roll 4 deep and mob the streets.
  - Nothing sub human about it, realistic weapons, setting and senerios,
  - The mentality for Money 
 Power and Respect grows on you.
  
  Cons
  - Like all good games it ends, and I for one do not like playing online.
  - Even after finding 
 all the CDs in the game I still wanted more something infinite.
  - Hitman was Nuts sometimes looking for your mark.
  - Why was the Gang limited to one color the 
 colors on the other gangs should of shifted with your optional selection.
  - I want a custom gun, I know I'm not the only one.
  
  * Things I would Change.
  - I want 
 the option of a different color for The Saints.
  - Why couldn't the Rep and Territory Concept of the Game flow over to the Online world? Idiots.
 
  - More Cars, More Tagging, More Guns and More Chicks.
  - More Thuggin' and Bangin'.
  - Have to be able to Crip Walk and Throw Gang Signs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tengu-Ninja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  Saints Row for the Xbox 360 is famous for being one of the only GTA "clones" that is actually a 
 worthy one. You start out the story as a player created character (Mine was the ugliest I could 
 make him) who gets in the middle of as gang battle only to be saved by the Saints who need you 
 to help take back the town. So basic gang story with pretty basic mission types at first until 
 you get to see all of the other missions it has in store. You can do some insurance fraud by throwing 
 yourself in front of cars, you can assassinate targets, you can cause as much mayhem in town as 
 possible, and you can even steal hookers from other pimps to deliver them to brothels. There is 
 plenty to do and it is accompanied by some great voice acting and character animation to boot. 
 Sure they are cartoony but whatever the frame rate is near perfect and the characters move around 
 very human like. The main story will take you maybe around 10-12 hours but if you take time to 
 do everything else in town you'll round out tons of extra hours in this great game. Now that it 
 is a platinum hit it is less expensive so go out and play it if you have not already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dell997
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 12:20 pm PT
Review:  saints row is a really fun game that will have you doing fun stuff for hours. From taking on story 
 mission's to roaming a very big city which looks really good but like most GTA like games thare 
 are some issue's. First even theo the city looks good thare are some pop in issue like building's 
 fading in and out and when police shoot out get really crazy the game will slow down a little but 
 it does not happen very often. second is the fact that you can't just run around picking up mission's 
 when ever you feel like because the game has this system that makes you do the side stuff first 
 before you do the story mission's. Beside that and one or two other things like the fact thare are 
 no other vehicle's beside car's thare's no motorbikes or even boats but the car's look really good 
 and handle really good too. Despite everything saints row is still a really fun and is a game you 
 should go pickup and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbhcdmjgyhvg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 1:33 am PT
Review:  cooooooooooool game............!!! NOT BAD
  say who did want live be a gangster can costumize low rider "completely" packaged. you can eat, there 
 is morning, afternoon, etc.
  i say it: why you "not" spent your time "on it" realy! im realy liking that game but still not 
 complete like our life. YOU MAYBE NEED TO:
  
  think about it still much it doesnt has like exactly : dancing, go in a normal building, buy a home, etc 
 like "GTA" dont ya remember those gta like san andreas its complete
  
  one thing i disappointed:
  
  yeah think it your self. one (1) most IMPORTANT thing i dont like 
 in gta: you must do mission to take over hoods with respect that totaly boooooring. i just wanna 
 took over
  my self
  
  so i should "say": THIS GAME TOTALY COOOL TOO NOT BAD!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is mindless childish fun. Just what the doctor ordered sometimes when you dont want 
 to think much and would rather just be blowing stuff up. Though its a GTA clone its definately 
 one of the better ones.
  
  The game mechanics are just your basic GTA type thing, I wont bother explaining. If you have played 
 GTA you know how to play Saints Row. Everything controls well, the weapons are all great fun to 
 use, there is a good selection of cars for you to nab. The game is solid all around.
  
  The story is actually pretty good for this type of game, though its unfortunately lost under the 
 body count and explosions which will grab peoples attention much more, and I can't blame anyone 
 for that. The voice acting is also solid.
  
  You can customize your character a lot but I didn't find the character creation to be very intuitive 
 so I just stayed with the basic caucasian character and was more creative when dressing him up. 
 =P You can buy all kinds of different clothes, I went for a kind of cowboy/biker mix-up which looked 
 interesting. Its fun to try different combinations of clothing and I loved how your character appears 
 in cutscenes dressed the way you choose. You can't get particularly attached to your character 
 because he doesn't even speak (except one line at the end of every storyline... so 4 lines through 
 the whole game. But they're funny lines and its a funny shock when he just speaks when you're not 
 expecting it.) , though I suppose you could design the guy to look like you if you're lucky and 
 are good with the character creation.
  
  The missions are well structured, though some of them are very same-y, and they could use some 
 checkpoints instead of having to start the whole mission again if you die. Probably the biggest 
 con of the game for me is the Respect system. You need to earn respect for every mission you do, 
 and to earn it you need to do sidequests which are just repeats over and over again. Though there 
 is some variety to which sidequest you choose, there are around 9 levels to each and they are all 
 mostly the same just getting slightly harder each time. It gets pretty monotonous and its obviously 
 just artificial lengthening. You need to earn one point of respect to do one of the games missions, 
 which sometimes means doing two levels of a sidequest to earn the one point; and you need to do 
 this for every real mission you do. Its not hard to see how this can get annoying.
  
  The city is alright but there isn't a whole lot to do and a severe lack of locations where you 
 can do insane stunts like in GTA. Once you've finished the game you can't continue roaming the 
 city, but you won't really want to. It serves its purpose enough for setting up missions though.
 
  
  Graphically, Saints Row is obviously not state of the art, not that it needs to be. The people 
 all look a bit plastic-y. But some of the fabric on clothing looks good and the explosions are 
 fantastic. The game world looks okay with nothing else really standing out. I loved how everything 
 is a big display of physics and how the ragdoll's are so over-the-top.
  
  Buy this game because its really fun. Nuff said! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittau
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Well I really liked this game but there really could have been slightly better in some regards. 
 Visually the game is beautiful, and the character creator is fantastic. With enough patience you 
 can make the "hero" of the game look like anyone. The biggest issue I had with the game was a few 
 glitches, first one 10 minutes into the game I'm driving along and, for apparantly no reason, fell 
 through the ground and just kept falling into the grey abyss. Another easily repeatable bug where 
 a portion of the freeway turns invisible for 2 seconds. the AI is pretty good in that they will 
 run from a burning car, and they can't always see you through walls, but they can however tag you 
 in a car going 60 from about 1000 yards out with an "unguided" rocket. There are plenty of things 
 to do aside from the story missions and strongholds. There are normal everyday open world sidegames 
 like races, and new ones like insurance fraud, and hostage. Unfortunatly some of the locations 
 for the side missions make the last couple of levels rather hard to say the least. I could not 
 actually finish the game, because of one nasty mission. I think whatever developer thought it would 
 be a good idea to place you in a car, have an AI driver driving you around in circles around in 
 the airport while multiple enemies with RPGs shoot at you, should realize that a mission like that 
 is a potential game killer. I sold my copy of Saint's Row because after 16 tries I realized I had 
 bought myself an XBOX for fun, not for frustration. Aside from all that Its a game that almost 
 got it right, but for me almost didn't cut it in this case. I haven't tried the sequal yet, but 
 hopefully this time when you restart a mission you don't have to drive the same 5 miles over and 
 over if you die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angry_Hobo4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  When I realised I had been swindled when i bought Fable 2 i instantly rushed to an EB games to 
 trade it in while there was still a good price for it and ended up getting this game.
  I expected it to be a two bit knock off of GTA
  But while it clones the original formula of GTA 
 it has a lot of its own original gameplay and story. The physics were bizarre but in a good way. 
 The story felt as if it was going no where and then it skyrocketed. Here are 4 good things about 
 this game:
  
  #1: Character Customisation
  
  I played GTAIV and all I wanted to do was dress Niko up in some 1930's mob suit. There were only 
 a few suits to buy in that game. I am not saying GTAIV is bad in any ways, only that Niko is not 
 as customisable as CJ in San Andreas. In Saints Row you have an almost limitless amount of customisation: 
 Race, hair, eyes, facial features, a huge amount of clothing; you really can get attached to your 
 character
  
  #2: Combat
  
  There is no cover system. When i first heard this i was cynical about the game. But Saints Row 
 is not about realism. The combat is still exciting when you have to run and gun. And if you desperately 
 need cover you can just duck behind a car or something but i garuntee you wont be after the first 
 few firefights.
  
  #3: Physics
  
  Again, this game does not pride itself on its realism. When you run over someone they will fly 
 into the air, spinning. The best use of this ragdoll physics is a minigame in which you jump in 
 front of cars and get money on how hurt you get.
  
  #4: Story
  
  After the first couple of missions I thought it would just be a mindless gang war. But halfway 
 into the game the missions start getting really interesting. You can really appreciate the story 
 if you play Saints Row 2 and then the first again.
  
  I got a message about how i cant review games when i reviewed fable 2. Maybe you should compare 
 Saints Row and then Fable 2 and see what difference there is
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren_ankney
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great game. Period. I picked this up because I played a little GTA IV and enjoyed 
 it. Always thought the downfall of GTA was you always get to the mission you can't get past. Not 
 so with Saints Row. The last Carnales mission is a little hard, but I got it after a few tries. 
 Do yourself a favor though, enable the unlimited ammo cheat. There are WAY to many enemies to kill 
 without this cheat :)
  
  I enjoyed the storyline, and the voice acting was top notch. The head of the Saints Row gang's 
 voice is the black dude from Men At Work (he was also in John Carpenter's They Live) . His voice 
 is awesome anyway, so was a good choice.
  
  There are some pretty crazy car chases and things, and the city is well done. If there is one complaint, 
 it would be that the lighting was not done well enough. Indoors was pretty cool, but outside day 
 and night effects could have been allot better. I'm looking forward to Saits Row 2, which I think 
 is out at the time I write this, but I haven't picked it up yet. I am also looking forward to finishing 
 GTA IV.
  
  A word of warning to parents. Saints Row is really raunchy and should not be played by children, 
 IMHO. There are many descriptive/vulgar references to sexual acts, as well as strippers with pasties 
 and the like. Also, the violence is way over the top. The game is replete with criminal activity. 
 Definitely a game for adults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: go0db0y
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row
  
  
  Many people wonder, is this game fun as gta? And my answer to that question is, Yes. It lack some 
 issues ( I think ) , but I believe SR franchise will survive right along with GTA series. It was 
 a good idea for volition to release this game before gta 4 came out. Consumers would have bought 
 gta 4 more than SR. 
  
  There are SR haters out there. They think SR doesn't not deserve a spot to be a good game like 
 GTA. But who cares? seriously? It's just a game. Games are suppose to provide entertainment to 
 people! So if you tried out SR and didn't like it just don't pick it up again. It's that simple.
 
  
  SR weaknesses are hard to describe. I felt like something was missing. Or is it not missing anything? 
 This game just wants you to have fun. That's why the AI is not serious, ragdoll effects are ridiculous, 
 and story + gangs are unique and hilarious. I think those were the weaknesses. But hey, it's a 
 game. 
  
  GTA takes everything serious. But on the other hand Saints Row just blows gta away with silliness. 
 They're both good games. But the end of the day I picked SR. I'm SR fan all the way. This review 
 might have confused you more about picking a game between GTA and SR. But come on man just pick!!! 
 I'm getting SR2 tomorrow, IAM SOO EXCITED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RaZorNOR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  my PC, so it is possible that on your PC can do problems! So you warning that that mod usage entirely 
 only on our hazard!
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  Copyright with relate ONLY on model! Brand AMG & HUMMER is brands AMG & HUMMER companies, and 
 isn't utilize for no commercial purposes! (and for other brands...)
  
  ---------------------NO ONE CAN CHANGE, CONVERT OR USE PART OF THIS CAR WITHOUT MY 
 
  -------Before host this mod in your website, convert or modifi, so please ask the permission to 
 jvt@centrum. cz ---------
   to the subject write 
 
  
   2004-2006 JVT
  All Rights Reserved!
  Made by (c) by Jvt-Design, www. jvtdesign. net 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac3456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people say that Saints Row is a GTA rip off. Not how i felt playing the game. I'll admitt 
 yes it recreates alot of the san adreas fire and action, but the story was alot better. The on 
 the side activities were alot better than "going bowling with a friend" or playing pool. that stuff 
 was cool but too much of it made the player lose track of the actual game and eventually kills 
 the actual story line. The Cliff Hanger ending add to the excitment of the game, because now you 
 are like now what. Well Saints Row 2 came out already. But this is SR1 we are talking about. Yes 
 there alot of glitches yes there are alot similiarities to GTA san andreas, yes it doesn't have 
 realistically amazing graphics, but its cartoony graphics make it an awesome game. And as much 
 as people say Saints Row copied GTA well GTA IV copied alot of Saints Rows ideas, the whole cell 
 phone idea, the wayn point on the map was First in saints row. so it was a give and take. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOMBOM889
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  For me this game seemed a lot like the GTA series. Hijacking cars, weird humor, citizens flying 
 in your path. Ring a bell? But boy was I wrong. Saints Row is much more than a cheap rip-off with 
 all the GTA elements dumbed down a bit, it is a new way to look at what GTA has accomplished and 
 adding on to it. The graphics are pretty solid except for the little bits of fade-in every so often. 
 The AI is pretty stupid, in a GTA type of way. You know when the citizens let you mow them down 
 in an instant and jump IN FRONT OF your vehicle. But that makes the game all the more enjoyable. 
 The story isn't very thrilling, but it really doesn't matter because the gameplay picks up for 
 it. The way SP (singleplayer) works is that you must do activities like hitman, drug trafficking, 
 hijacking, etc. to advance into the main story. It is pretty good because it occupies a good chunk 
 of your time playing this game. Then you must also take different neighborhoods to advance your 
 gang in society. Multiplayer is a little different than what you'd expect. It is a lot of wacky 
 game types that serve some stupid purpose, but it is fun overall. With that the game is an 8/10 
 and a good buy for players in search of a game other than GTA but with different qualities. Hope 
 you enjoyed thias review and this was TOMBOM889 (also my gamercard) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatinG187
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay wise Saint's Row is great. The controls are smooth once you learn 'em. There are so many 
 things to do in Saints Row that you can get wrapped up in doing snatch or activities or walking 
 around town trying to find targets that you are hired to kill, that you might forget all about 
 the story mode.
  
  The primary story though is pretty good. It's fun to go through and some cutscenes are actually 
 pretty funny and entertaining to watch. The voice in acting is well done in this game. The missions 
 aren't all that hard. The difficulty is just right for a game like this. 
  
  There's so much stuff to do in this game that you will lose hours of sleep staying up all night 
 playing Saints Row trying to complete all the activities or just raising hell throughout Stillwater! 
 I'd strongly recommend this game, a lot of fun and well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Life_Is_Crule
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  its easily one of the best games i have no doubt about it its fairly easy once u get the hang of 
 it and the graphics are pretty god much better the grand theft auto and some of the scenes in between 
 missions are funny as although some of the missions are not to good u get to do up cars when ever 
 u want and put nos on them and hi hydraulics i jumped a police car with my hydraulics lol soz random 
 an u can loan money and then they come and hunt u down and then u shoot down trains and the cops 
 come after u its f@!*ing awesome and if u kill the cops the SWAT comes and then u kill them and 
 the FBI comes its so much fun and some of the stuff u can do is amazing except u cant fly planes 
 or helicopters = ( that sucks but the fire trucks are fun and so are some of the activity's like 
 the fraud and the drug trafficking and the mayhem are very good so over all i think it is an awsome 
 game andevery one should buy it lol 
  
  Life is cruel live with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperjj3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Saints row takes place in fictional city stillwater which has four rival gangs. Your aim is to 
 take over the city with the help of your gang members. The game is similar to the GTA series but 
 manages to have a few unique features aswell. There are a variety of side missions for your player 
 to do like street  etc. You earn respect with each successful 
 mission you complete.
  
  The game allows you to customize your player by changing facial features, clothes, tattoos and jewelry, you 
 can also customize your car by respraying. I found saints row to be more enjoyable then the new 
 GTA and i will deffinatly be getting saints row 2. The graphics are nice, nothing extremly special 
 just nice but that doesnt matter in this game.
  
  So overall im going to give this game 8.5/10
  I would recommend it to any GTA fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zBloodD3monz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great game but it will find it difficult to compete with Grand Theft Auto. If I 
 had to chose the better game between the two I would deffinately say Saints Row.
  
  Saints Row deals with the problems with getting bored easily with activities. The activities are 
 fun and enjoyable and you can have a lot of fun for a long time playing these activities. It also 
 stops the boredom with a large amoung of gangs on the street, which you can have fun running around 
 and killing. Robbing shops can be fun, although its a simple method.
  
  The storyline is interesting and leaves with a cliffhanger ending. The size of the map on Saints 
 Row is relatively small. Most of the time I travelled around without using the map and used my 
 memory.
  
  Online multiplayer is fun and addictive. The game types are fun and different. My favourites being 
 Protect tha Pimp and Blinged out Ride.
  
  Customisation is great, and is the best customisation on any game so far. You can change your appearance 
 and improve your cars.
  
  In conclusion Saints Row is a spectacular game, but I think it will find it difficult to compete 
 with GTA's reputation. The graphics need to be improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jqh97116
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great game hands down. I picked it up about a week ago and haven't stopped playing. 
 After school, playing, before school, playing. It's very addicting. i have logged in more than 
 20 hours of what first seemed to be a GTA Imposter.
  
  Gameplay-
  Gameplay in Saints Row is like GTA4 and San Andreas mashed together to create a king of run and 
 gun but at the same time you might need to watch your health when it gets hectic. The driving is 
 also very fun and makes you feel good when you're goin down the freeway in a Venom, or driving 
 through the Ghetto in a Beater. It's a very immersive experience. 
  
  Graphics-
  The graphics aren't exactly top notch and the cutscenes aren't exactly great either, but it's good 
 enough, kinda like San Andreas, where the game made up for the graphics.
  
  Online- I personally haven't played online because i don't have the setup or money for Xbox Live. 
 I have heard that online was ok, but not many people are playin now with Saints Row 2 out.
  
  Character Customization- 
  The Character Customization is very in depth when it come to just 
 about anything. In the beginning of the game the first thing you do is make your character's physical 
 appearance the way you want. No getting stuck with a lame guy either, you can go toImage as 
 Designed" to change everything from weight to Race. 
  
  Character Customization on Clothing- 
  The Character Clothing Customization is a very neat and 
 much better than the okay San Andreas one. On Saints Row you can have literally 3 layers of tops, 
 3 layers of chains, pendants and medallions on each chain. Watches, and bracelets, peirceings on 
 ears, eyebrows, and more, hats, eyewear, pants, underwear, and all jewelry has multiple types of 
 Material you can buy, platinum, gold, you name it. The clothes also have that control, you can 
 make you hat backwards, any angle almost, your pants low or high, have you pants rolled up on your 
 left, or right leg, or both. It's pretty much the best Character Customization i've ever seen in 
 a game so far.
  
  Vehicles- A vast majority of vehicles are at your whim to destroy and keep in a magic garage, that 
 can hold as many vehicles you want and never go away unless you tell it to get rid of the car. 
 The Vehicle Customization is just as in depth as the Character Customization is. Make it a whip 
 or a beater, your choice.
  
  Stilwater is open to you form the beginning, every shop, every place, everything. 
  
  That 
 wraps up my review and i know it was longer but Saints Row has so much stuff crammed in it i could 
 barely say this little. I hope you play Saints Row and enjoy it. Thanks and i hope you found my 
 review useful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tippeetom
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I dont no where to start, the game is just so much fun. the story is really good fun, it keeps 
 you wonting to carry on playing all night! you just cant put it down when you get into it. you 
 have quite alot of freedom when playing, you choose when you wont to do a mission or just wont 
 to run around blowing off a few heads. online play is good, a few different game modes to play 
 and even sitting in the pre-game lobby is fun :) there could be more levels to choose from though. 
 i play gta and saints row quite alot and it has to be said that saints row is just a different 
 class to gta, is is just so much more fun. if you are the sort of person who doesn't like a game 
 that is to serious and like to bang a game on when you get home from the pub then this game really 
 is for you. and if you are someone who doesn't buy to many games due to money issues then this 
 game is also for you as there is hours of game play, hundreds of mini missions that make this game 
 last for ever. worth every penny, now that it is easily obtainable second hand it could be brought 
 for under 15! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgdiner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 was heavily anticipated by many, including myself. Unfortunately, after the game was completed, 
 there was almost nothing to do except some stuff in Niko's house and maybe, you know, some risq`ue 
 material. My friends also complained that San Andreas was great for having parachuting, Las Vegas, 
 flying, driving cross-country, and customizing cars. After I was done with the game, I was looking 
 for some more open-world action. Scarface was good for a while, but f@%$ every 2 words turned me 
 off. After all, it becomes redundant after every use until I was numb to it. Also, the physics 
 were awful, and most of the missions were just- Kill the drug dealer, or Protect X. And then I 
 came across Saint's Row.
  
  For most of the year that Saint's Row came out, I was working, and didn't have time to play and 
 buy games like I do in the summer and very early fall. Until now, I thought it was GTA or the highway 
 for me. But after a couple days' play, I was hooked.
  
  Story- Simply amazing, and I thought GTA was good. The game starts out with you, unknown dude, 
 just walking down the street, minding your own beeswax (lol) . Then, a couple gangsters get into 
 a fight, and kill each other. Then a guy comes to kill you, gets shot in the head by another guy, 
 who gets shot in the head (Much like the Departed ---ZING) ANyway, a man named Juluis who runs the 
 3rd Street Saints, recruits you, and you are now in charge of taking down the Rollerz, Carnales, 
 and Kings. Each is a sub-chapter kind of mission, and you get to choose how to do them. There are 
 great characters, with Lin, the undercover with the Rollerz, Gat, the lead on the Vice Kings, and 
 Johnny and some other dude on the Los (ha) Carnales. One will die, and, at a surprise end, someone 
 else will too. Tip- Save your game before the last mission when it promps you too.9/10
  
  Gameplay-The best. I thought that GTAs aiming would be as good as it would ever get, with the "half 
 press to free aim crap" but I finally got a good free aim system. A big plus for me was the 360 
 degree shooting in the car, which I had only seen in the crap-tastic True Crime series. Plus, the 
 content is astounding, without crazy stuff like parachuting and flying when it was obviously unnecessary. 
 For instance, customizing cars is 50% of what I do daily when I play, its so much fun. Also, the 
 cars of varied, instead of GTA where every 3rd car is an esperanto or other. I have never seen 
 two cars in a row, which adds to the reality factor as well. For instance, have you ever seen two 
 identical Bentleys or Ferraris right next to each other at a streetlight? Chances are no. Holding 
 up stores, robbing safes, customizing your characters ethnicity and face, clothes, cars, and even 
 getting four cribs is superb. The powersliding, while unrealistic, is easy to use, and most people 
 won't oversteer, unless they hold down LT too long. 10/10
  
  Music-Outstanding. Bravo, Volition!!! OF course, there are radio stations, as there are in all 
 open world games, but there are actually music stores in the game where you can purchase music 
 with in-game money. And there not crap songs, either. Once Bitten Twice Shy, Turkish March, Round 
 and Round, 1812 Overture, Beethoven, and Canon in D are some of my favs. You can put these on your 
 fictional ipod two, and play them on a custom playlist. But there is not much classic rock, or 
 at all actually, so --- 6/10
  
  Overall- Not a GTA killer in any regard, as no game ever will be, just like how no game will ever 
 toppel WoW. Still, who said they can't live in harmony. Saints Row is great and a game I recommend 
 to any dissappointed GTA 4 player, but it is not perfect, so keep that in mind. Other than that, 
 it is the best open world game I have ever played in my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sivasiva
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  Saints row is a GTA clone game and i thoroughly enjoyed it. It is a must have for gamers over 17 
 years old.
  
  
  Good things about the game:
  1) You can create your own character from a array of customisation options.
  
  2) The best GTA 
 rip off ever had...
  
  3) Wide varieties of weapons and particularly, my favourite is the shot-gun.
  
  4) Interesting 
 side missions and a captivating storyline.
  
  5) I didn't experience any bugs in the game...
  
  6) Sound audio is excellent.
  
  7) You can 
 recruit homies (bodyguards) up to 6.
  
  8) Interesting achievements. The best was probably the achievement in which to conquer stillwater.
 
  
  9) You can get territories and occasionally, enemies will attack your territory and you will have 
 to defend it. You can also play stronghols missions to claim territories if you want to unlock 
 the 'conquering stillwater' achievement.
  
  10) You are free to aim using your weapons.
  
  11) Huge range of music to listen to from classical songs to pop music. You can also purchase 
 music from CDs you collceted and purchase them at music stores.
  
  12) Has a lot of stores like liqour shops to car mechanic shops to strip clubs.
  
  13) Has 
 a lengthy storyline for the 3 enemy gangs.
  
  ... And many more... I won' list them as i still got the bad parts of the game to cover.
  
  Bad 
 parts of the game:
  
  1) Framerate drops sometimes in intense gun battles. There are also some glitches in the game.
 
  
  2) Your created character won't talk at all in the game.
  
  3) There are no  and boats for this game. For these GTA clone 
 games to rival with GTA, this game should have all these vehicles.
  
  4) Homies tend to be blocking ur way when you are doing something like shooting enemies. This is 
 especially irritating when you are trying to revive your fallen homies and your other homies are 
 blocking your way.
  
  5) A lot of vulgarities are used in this game.
  
  6) In order to play the main missions, you have to fill up the respect bar by playing side missions. 
 Its like the game is forcing you to play these side missions and after a while, it gets tiresome 
 and boring.
  
  7) Stillwater is not so big if you compared it to vice city or san andreas or liberty city. Takes 
 only a few minutes if you drive from one end to another end. Not much places to explore too.
  
  Overall, i think this is a must game for all action-adventure fans who are over at least 17 
 years old and for those who are new to the genre. This game successfully copies the GTA games and 
 improved it further. With that, i will look forward to saints row 2 which is going to be a lot better 
 than the first saints row but this game is still good enough for a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IJbarber
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  its an awesome game with hard missions great weapons and cutscenes with alot of the f word. the 
 storyline is good but if you beat the game before you heard that there was going to be a 2nd game 
 then you wouldn't understand how the ending basically had you killed and everyone looked like they 
 were in on it except Johny who is the all time funniest guy in the game and if someone who likes 
 to play games about ruining peoples lives this game is perfect = (SPOILERS) =
  because for vice kings you kill some **** body guard then theirs a hostile take over the kings 
 com then you kill the guy who took it over with the help of king. Then you kill the **** who took 
 it over and if you wanna know what happens to the westside rollerz or los carnales beat the game 
 but i will say you help a mayor who you thought was the good guy for julius but you end up on a 
 boat thats blown apart by a bomb because of julius 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a good game not the best out there but it's good in it's own rights. The graphics 
 look good you can tell they put some good work into the game to. The controls took me a little 
 bit to get used to and more than likely you will feel the same way about them also. The driving 
 don't take no time to get used to the driving also is really unrealistic.
  
  A really good thing about the game and something that I really like is that the game has a huge 
 city so that's a big plus in it. The game also has in it is car designs you can tune up your car 
 and stuff. But some of there are stupid so I hope that's better in the second game as well. Another 
 thing about Saints row that I didn't like much is the story and I am a little bit disappointed 
 with that. It doesn't have a deep story like all the GTA's do.
  
  Yea the game is a GTA clone but it does a good job at it to. I still prefer GTA over it though 
 but at the same time I also recommend the game to anyone who like's GTA. So you may as well go 
 out and pick it up or rent it to give it a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  Saints row
  Graphics: They were Good for its time, using basic lighting effects and using good weathering effects 
 for the shading provided from Various Objects seen around the city , this makes sure that that 
 the shadows arent always pointing in the same direction.
  
  Controls: If you are used to GTA games then the controls take a bit of time getting comfortable 
 with, The driving you get staight away because it is very simple and unrealistic.
  
  Other: If you have trouble with Mission the Game offers a variety of Cheats. Saints row also makes 
 good use of its mobile phone accessible through the pause menu, from the phone you are able to 
 call a special gang member to help you out, or you could just recruit your gang off the street. The 
 city the game is set in seems to be very small being able to drive from one side of the city to 
 the other within a few minutes.
  
  Saints row Offers very fun gameplay, and is very cheap, PICK THIS UP! 8.5 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pollowaz
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  A good Copy of Gta because the city is Huge... and the mission are very nice i like the ragdoll 
 all time i pass playing with ragdolls lol in my opinion i prefer Gta i would like see now sainst 
 row 2 because is innovative and cool.... graphics are nice :D good missions are very innovative 
 cars all is very cooli like the character creation is realy impresionat thatput you in the shoes 
 of the protagonistweapons it could be more weapons because more destruction... the police is very 
 stupid.. because u are in a store and meets there and the protagonist (you) kill very easy...
  the cheats are very well very very well.. and i like the cheat of bear muscles haha ragdolls... 
 and they could put a cover mode because u are in a shooting and the bands o the police kill u that 
 no nice sometimes the camara is bad
  and the gameplay is more o less but nice :D ....
  amizing game with a more o less history 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  Most people might think that this is just another GTA rip-off, but it isn't. The game's setting 
 takes place in a rough city called Stilwater, where gangs are fighting against each other. You 
 get recruited to help out a gang take over territories. The gameplay is very fun. You run around 
 the open world and do whatever you feel like -- jack a car, kill someone, beat someone up, and so 
 on. There's a variety of different weapons to use, and they're all very entertaining. The controls 
 are fluid and work very well. Aiming can be a little difficult while moving, and that's the only 
 flaw I found in the gameplay. It never really gets old to run over people, since it's just so fun! 
 The visuals aren't that great, and the remind me of Bully: Scholarship Edition, but they are better 
 than that. Civilian animations aren't that well done, and there's tons of clipping. The audio is 
 great, ranging from the weapons to the actual voice acting. The multiplayer is a nice addition 
 to the game. There's a variety of different modes to choose from, and you can form gangs (aka clans) 
 to fight against each other. This isn't anywhere near as good as GTA 4, but it still stands tall 
 in its own rights, ultimately making it appealing for anyone who's interested in the genre.
  
  Score: 8.7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: istylee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  I picked myself up Saints Row before the sequel releases. I was always skeptical of this title, 
 i was a Grand Theft Auto fanboy you see, but after playing Saints Row. It is just as great as the 
 GTA series.
  
  The customization is great and very deep, something Grand Theft Auto IV didn't have. From the character 
 creation, clothes and car tuning. The car tuning is always fun, but some designs can be a bit cheesy, 
 i hope the sequel do the tuning right.
  
  A bit of a shame that the protagonist doesn't speak just like in GTAIII. Though other characters 
 do a good job of voice acting. Though I'm a tad disappointed with the story telling as the story 
 was actually pretty good, the game failed to have many cutscenes to go really deep with the story 
 telling. I really hope Saints Row 2 is more story driven with more cutscenes and dialogue like 
 GTAIV had.
  
  The gameplay is very fun and can be very addictive after playing it for few hours. The shooting 
 and driving is pretty solid. The activities can be a bit tiresome after a while but the game pulls 
 through with its over the action story missions.
  
  I really enjoyed my time in Still Water and i can't wait to get back in there once Saints Row 2 
 is out!
  
  Ps. Don't judge this game to be a GTA clone like i once did, give it a chance and you'll love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiGhTbUlLeT_15
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  A great game, like GTA but in the other direction. You are player, a humble member of a gang becoming 
 a threat in the dangerous suburb city of Stilwater. Going around killing other members, finding 
 out more secrets and a surprising and openended finale, is all here. Customization, open world, 
 loads of fun, if you haven't got it, get it. GTA was real, this isn't. Hyper OTT blowing stuff 
 up and kicking the crap out of grannies.
  If you don't find it fun, then sell your 360. A console without this isn't complete. The online 
 isn't full at all, I struugled to find 6 players. But still fun online non the less. The customization 
 is what makes it all worthwhile. Steal a Raycaster, take it to a Garage, put some spiked gold rims 
 on, NOs, spoiler the size of the whole car and an exhaust the people could get stuck in. It's literally 
 the best customisation game ever. Any car you want, and style, you can make it.
  
  All together, 8.5.
  +... Great gameplay and involving story
  +... Customization is fantastic
 
  +... Fun online games
  +... Great open world setting
  -... Old game... small online community 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jnsrshwn187
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I had never heard of this game until my sister picked it up for me. Since I am a gang and violence 
 lover, she thought I would get enjoyment out of this game. As soon as she gave it to me, I started 
 to play it. And that was when my obsession began. There has been a lot of sleepless nights since 
 June, and I am not bored of it! This game is for anyone who enjoys GTA and wants more out of their 
 game. This game offers an amazing story line with fun strongholds and activities you could do in 
 between missions. You can customize EVERYTHING! Your cars, your clothes... even your looks. The 
 dialogue is awesome with some humor and there are characters that you can't help but love! 
  As a GTA fan of the past... I have to say that there is no comparison between Saints Row and GTA. 
 SR is much better! The graphics are much better and the story line is much more of a story line 
 than any GTA game has had.
  So... I will rap this up with this: If you are into gang type games with a lot of violence and a 
 awesome story line, this is the game for you!
  
  Saints Row is the best! Can't wait for Saints Row 2! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bsbfan4life
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  I had never heard of this game until my sister picked it up for me. Since I am a gang and violence 
 lover, she thought I would get enjoyment out of this game. As soon as she gave it to me, I started 
 to play it. And that was when my obsession began. There has been a lot of sleepless nights since 
 June, and I am not bored of it! This game is for anyone who enjoys GTA and wants more out of their 
 game. This game offers an amazing story line with fun strongholds and activities you could do in 
 between missions. You can customize EVERYTHING! Your cars, your clothes... even your looks. The 
 dialogue is awesome with some humor and there are characters that you can't help but love! 
  As a GTA fan of the past... I have to say that there is no comparison between Saints Row and GTA. 
 SR is much better! The graphics are much better and the story line is much more of a story line 
 than any GTA game has had.
  So... I will rap this up with this: If you are into gang type games with a lot of violence and a 
 awesome story line, this is the game for you!
  
  Saints Row is the best! Can't wait for Saints Row 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geo-gnome
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  To start i bought this game when it first came out and i thought it was just going to be another 
 GTA clone but in my opinion its alot more fun (i know some of people may disagree) this game provides 
 so much replay value its unbelievable as im still playing now and as i said i got it when it first 
 came out.
  
  When i first turned this game on i found myself in a very user friendly menu i knew what to click 
 on and i wasnt confused (unlike GTA where you are just dropped straight into the game) so i clicked 
 new game and began to play the first thing you have to do is create you character. You can choose 
 from any race and make your character look however you want him to look. Naturally i tried to make 
 my character awesome but if you want to you can make your character look like you or even just 
 make him look plain ridiculous.
  
  After you have made your character you watch a short cutscene introducing you to the four gangs 
 of stillwater after this the saints recruit you into their gang and then you have to retake stillwater 
 using a combination of guns, cars and money overall the single player campaign is excellent and 
 there are lots of extra side missions you can play aswell.
  
  After playing the campaign mode i ventured into online play where i was very dissapointed as there 
 are many glitches and lots of lag also there are lots of so called standbyers* now ive played lots 
 of other multiplayer games and ive never had problems with standbyers so i dont see why they cant 
 stop this but ignoring all that theres great potential in the online play money for customisation 
 isnt to easy to get so it keeps you playing and you can form a gang with your friends to compete 
 against other gangs for top position in the leaderboards.
  
  overall i really enjoyed this game and would strongly reccomend buying it as you can probably find 
 it for really cheap now as its an old game.
  
  *standbyers are players who make the game lag in favour of them but im not sure how they do it.
 
  
  p. s sorry about the spelling not my strongest subject 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryrjjj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  hi and welcome to my review on saints row for the xbox 360. saints row is a solid game that has 
 loads of fun put in to it. the missions are brilliant and great fun i spend ages playing on this 
 game you get to create a person at the begining of the game and go on to join with the 3rd street 
 saints out side of missions you can earn money buy running in to cars protecting drug dealers shoplifting 
 and many more ways so you can get rich easily. deafnetly a game you should buy so what are you 
 waiting for go and get it  
 im waiting get of that computer or laptop and go and buy it come on gooooooooooooooooooooooo get 
 it now.!!!!! good bye and thanks for reading the best review of saints row hello hello hello hello 
 hello poo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngballa823
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 9, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  n nn k jk d djlks s ls kfsl s fls fkslfj iejflksjdgkejfoijd., j oiv eijf lkjidsjv k dv ej i id dk 
 g d dv vi lk jke djdsjf the re; l d frjoele roe lelijt relijngh t; l idvn vsa fng jkvwherne d thejldodwn 
 dj ght e fe kgjed=df relkjdra nd gkjdojse fjdejglsj dgjdijgsl jlsdjdjg oisjl js gls jgldslgj sldgkdkjgsd 
 s gls d ld kd dls j dk sl s sk dj skjdkjd ls dkj slk skljlf glke k gl ej lk jidshoisjls kdj ojs 
 o jdokjs djgj sdk gls jdkl l gsl ld js d fsj f s jdflks lkjdkdjwiejk e It was strate n nn k jk 
 d djlks s ls kfsl s fls fkslfj iejflksjdgkejfoijd., j oiv eijf lkjidsjv k dv ej i id dk g d dv vi 
 lk jke djdsjf the re; l d frjoele roe lelijt relijngh t; l idvn vsa fng jkvwherne d thejldodwn dj 
 ght e fe kgjed=df relkjdra nd gkjdojse fjdejglsj dgjdijgsl jlsdjdjg oisjl js gls jgldslgj sldgkdkjgsd 
 s gls d ld kd dls j dk sl s sk dj skjdkjd ls dkj slk skljlf glke k gl ej lk jidshoisjls kdj ojs 
 o jdokjs djgj sdk gls jdkl l gsl ld js d fsj f s jdflks lkjdkdjwiejk e It was strate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmaxstop
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Looks like GTA from the past generation consoles. Awful in game controls & usability. But if you 
 are bored and done of playing all the GTAs, this game will feul your GTAddiciton for awhile. And 
 dont even talk about the graphics of this. They *uck; it looks like a xbox game. Nothing near to 
 360; low graphics; low real time fps speed. I beleive this game can easily run on ps2 or xbox. 
 Too late to be put on high stakes in the new generation gaming arena (Gears of War, GTA IV, Halo 
 3 or in other words; Ultimatly Quality Assured) .
  
  I think the Saints row 2 would be much better. The casting and the storyline are good but not that 
 good. Always leaving a trail of pimped out GTA, but not a great game itself. 
  
  GTA IV is such an awesome game, that we are playing this because of it. 
  Rockstar should work 
 much faster as we dont mind a GTA every 3-4 months, and if they dont THQ or someother will comeup 
 with games like Saints Row or something.
  
  Just started playing; after completing GTA IV more than 8 times.
  Played Saints Row for an hour, 
 got bored changed the disc back to GTA IV 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdjVG
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row brings everything cool, Making your own person instead of being stuck with just one 
 choice and it has can have you laughin' from the stuff that the different Saints say either during 
 a cutscene or just walking up and down the streets. I like the Story mode, Vice Kings in particular, 
 it is one of those games where theres alot to do, between completing missions or finishing the 
 story, which is very amusing. Theres a number of glitches but it is still fun, I like the car warp, 
 but it could of been a little more interesting to see if the person gave a jab or shot or kicked 
 them out of the car, but thats why its a glitch. 
  The ideas they provided like hold ups not just by the character but by stilwaters civilians at 
 certain times, people commiting suicide in certain areas, coin money, hostaging people, some new 
 civilians pop up from time to time, fights are seen all around, sometimes theres drive bys, robbing 
 banks and hauling to a pawn shop, even rare cars are able to be purchased. 
  Another interesting thing was the cell phone were you can store cheats, call homies unlocked (too 
 bad there weren't more including Johnny Gat, Dex, Troy, Julius and at least see Lin up in your team 
 on at least on mission) but its cool with everything else including the messages from various stores. 
 But the game was tight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willsi100
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  I am going to say that I didn't buy this game as soon as it came out because of what most people 
 also though... Just another GTA rip off.
  After a while I noticed that it had been put into the Xbox 360 Classics section. So with the reduced 
 price I decided to give this game a go.
  I totally underestimated how good this game was. Beautiful graphics, for when the game came out 
 and a really cool storyline.
  I know people are still going to say that this is a GTA rip off, but there is nothing wrong with 
 a game being a like. 
  The opening video does not explain why your character is suddenly involved with the gang but once 
 you get past that confusing opening you are part of a gang which is competing against three other 
 gangs to be the main gang of the city.
  Your gang is split up and you will be doing mission for the main characters in order to get rid 
 of the gang that each character is trying to get rid of.
  The game has a good selection of weapons and vehicles. Many people would prefer how the weapon 
 layout is on this game. By holding the B button you can move the left stick to select a weapon 
 rather then, as in GTA, you will have to go through every weapon to get to the one you want.
  Overall this game is a well made game and if you haven't played it already I would suggest that 
 you do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360progamer
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Saints Row may just be another rip off of Grand Theft Auto, but they added the Multi-player aspect. 
 Single player is a good motivating story line, with plenty of fun money making activities like 
 insurance fraud or demo derby, to drug dealing. 
  
  in Multi-player you can start your very own gang, jump in new members, so you can take advantage 
 of the shooting from car, drive by style teaming up, as well as the seasoned vet killing everyone 
 themselves. there are achievements to get you playing everything in the game.
  the missions aren't bad, none are terribly hard, and in the beginning it looks like a game just 
 for anyone that enjoys just playing a video with no really hard challenges.
  
  The first down-fall you realize is that it takes more time to get to the mission than to play it. 
 Then, after beating ALL of the territories and unlocking everything you can.... the plot leaves 
 you with a cliffhanger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomdragon200
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Now this is Saints Row,. another (what i like to call) GTA ripoff. When i first started playing 
 this i thought it was gonna be terrible to my surprise.... it was, not absolutely mind you but it 
 was a bit bad. However as i started to progress i really noticed how this game can really grow 
 on you and was actually really cool. Lets start off with the basic's you join the Third street 
 Saint's a gang in the district of Saint's Row they've been pushed back by 3 other games and it's 
 you're turn to take um out and take back the city. So lets start off with the good things, it may 
 be another gta ripoff but Saints have something GTA doesnt real time gang territory and gang fight's 
 also there are many weapons and you can pimp out you're car ( I liked turning all my cars purple/gold 
 :P ) You also can get many diffirent types of crazy clothing like the pimp fuzzy hat which everyone 
 know's and loves. The bad things in the game are that going into enemy territory is no cake walk, 
 you get attacked if seen and the cops will try to stop you if you fight um back. Also it seems 
 when you take a territory it goes into freaking open warfare (or whatever) and you have to reclaim 
 it and if you dont you lose it! The gang questline to take down i found were somewhat hard however 
 in the end you alway's get cool places ( I liked the Mansion ^^) . In all this game takes some getting 
 used to but after a few hour's (about 2) it get's pretty fun and it becomes a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The Gta series has always had some type of ripoff of the series, but this game has to be the best 
 ripoff of all ripoffs.
  I am talking about the game called Saints Row, this game has to be one of the most fun games you 
 will have all year. The game has alot of innovative ways to make the game useful without taking 
 too much gta material.
  This game has a good story about a unnamed person who you play, and you get rescued by the third 
 street saints during an attack by a rival gang, as you get rescued you eventually get ordained 
 into the saints group. Through the awsome story you will be fighting to get the city of stilwater, 
 you will be facing los carnales, westside rollers, vice kings, throughout the game you will have 
 to finish them off to regain reign of stilwater.
  The game is visually looks good, and it also sounds good to, if you want to expieriance cool looking 
 explosions and car crashes. The game is a great achievement do to side missions that will help 
 you keep some game going when you are done with the short story.
  The only thing wrong with this game is that at the end you will be wanting more story like I did, 
 and also at the end your hopes of your charecter will be shattered when you see that last cutscene.
 
  Overall I liked this game do to the fact that this is the best gta ripoff, and you might find 
 it to be the best ripoff yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilcoyne
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Ive had this game for a long time now over a year. I felt this just would not compare to the likes 
 of GTA but you know this isn't bad at all and is great fun!!
  
  In short: This is a decent enough story game throwing you into a fight between gangs. With good 
 graphics for its time dispite a few glithces but poor multiplayer options, it could have been a 
 whole lot better!!
  
  Ok its copying GTA's style. As far as im concerned we needed some competition in this area anyway!! 
 Theres a host of new features in this game. New features such as plastic surgury and insurance 
 fraud are welcome changes as all new activities and character customisation options are very good 
 indeed. I don't know how many hour i used the ragdoll cheat which was used in insurance fraud its 
 simply awesome.
  
  GRAPHICS: The game has nice effects, explotions, ragdoll etc. are nicely detailed. But dispite 
 a few glitches its lives up to the next gen name for graphics. If i wasa to compare this to a game 
 like GTA4 though graphically its much worse taking into account GTA is newer. 7
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is good as it is what you would expect from a gta style game. Its just pure 
 fun!! You will have some great laughs at ragdolls flying all over the place!! 8
  
  SOUND: The game has decent enough music/ sound effects. 8
  
  VALUE: As ive had this for a year 
 now i turn it on the odd time for a look. It doesnt suffer from the "nothing to buy with your money" 
 thing GTA4 suffers. 8
  
  Overall: fun!! game worth a look!!
  
  8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torio795
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Saints row is good modern day gangster game. It came out way after Grand Theft Auto san Andra's 
 which was just in time. I don't know about anyone else but I couldn't wait to play the next Grand 
 Theft Auto game but it was miles away so Saints Row made up for it in the mean time.
  
  When I first saw saints row on the shelves I looked at the back cover of the case and thought it's 
 just going to be another GTA wanna b game. But I was shocked. The graphics in this game are awesome 
 and the gameplay is so oo smooth and just goes with the flow. There were some doubts in my head 
 and I was actually trying to decide which is the better game, GTA or Saints Row and being a long 
 time GTA fan this was truly a shock because I'd always go with Grand Theft Auto but this game changed 
 my mind.
  
  Saint's row was the best modern action adventure game of its time, it was the best next gen console 
 game I played. It's compared to GTA a lot and it does have it's similarities but it's so oo different 
 in it's own way. In a good way though.
  
  Gangs are a big part of Saints Row and the way it's all set out is wicked. The character customisation 
 at the start of the game made a big impression on me, you can customise everything. From top to 
 toe of the character. The cars in this game are on another level, the texture and graphics of the 
 cars are more than stunning and I haven't seen any other game that's beaten the cars graphics. 
 
  
  The story line of Saints Row is a good story and it's a typical rags to extremely loaded riches 
 which is good but I thought that It all happened too quick and before you know it the story's finished 
 , so there could have been more missions but overall this game is so good and I'd advise you to 
 play it. 
  
  I hope Saints Row 2 is longer than and just as good as S. R 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game could actually have been called GTA-Saints Row... is THAT similar to GTA. I think there 
 can be some intellectual property violations here but that's Rockstar's problem... We just play 
 it, Right?
  
  Well... I like GTA games and therefore I enjoyed this game too. The mechanics are pretty similar 
 and the objectives too... and the story is quite good...
  
  The only thing I have to complain about is the driving physics... in my opinion that's been a problem 
 in GTA as well and it would have been nice for THQ to correct that issue in Saints Row. Is very 
 annoying when you try to drive straight and your car bounce like a rubber ball in slow motion...
 
  
  Bottom line, the story behind Saints Row is good enough to keep you playing and the game mechanics 
 are well proven in GTA so there is no learning curve whatsoever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfCrunks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  But is that really a bad thing, I don't think that it is. If Rockstar haven't released a GTA game 
 in a while then its great that other game companies are giving it a shot at making a GTA like sandbox 
 game. THQ are the makers of Saints Row and they have done a very good job with the control layout 
 for the Xbox 360 and have managed to give the feeling that the GTA games gave you when you play 
 them. This game hasn't got any licensed cars but you can blatantly see that they have tried to 
 copy some of the real life versions of the cars, like there's Land Rover like cars and Cadillac 
 looking cars in the game but with names like Compton and Lander.
  
  The game has a very unbelievable story but its good fun if you like the whole, black man with a 
 rocket launcher killing any random person on the streets of NEW York, and loosing the police by 
 going through a drive-thru type thing. You start off caught up in a gang fight and Julius the Gang 
 leader of a gang called the 3rd Street Saints, others you the chance to join the gang all you have 
 to do is go and meet him at the church. You go to the church fight a load of gang members and you 
 become a member of the gang. Julius immediately puts all of his trust in you and has not a shadow 
 of a doubt that you wont betray him. You don't betray him but it doesn't change the fact that in 
 a real life situation you wouldn't have just betrayed him and became the gang leader yourself, 
 but hey that's the game world. 
  
  The player customisation is very unique and has millions of possible faces and bodies for you to 
 create, you can choose gender, ethnicity, weight, build, muscle and anything that you can think 
 of. I personally like to just create players and see how they look. Like making them have extremely 
 large facial features such as a humongous nose and beady eyes or a massive mouth and a tiny head 
 and body. It's also a very good feature to change your body weight as you can choose whether to 
 look big, small, fat, skinny, big muscles, small muscles, thin or anorexic. The choice is completely 
 up to you.
  
  There is also an online mode which isn't the best I have played but it's the first online in a 
 sandbox game and its not too bad but its very hard to find a game and there aren't many people 
 who play the game online. there are a few online modes called, blinged out ride, big ass chains 
 and protect the pimp, you also have a fully functional working wardrobe in the online mode and 
 the more matches you win, the more items you unlock in your wardrobe. The wardrobe has lots of 
 clothes and it's a very good variety of different styles. You can dress up as a pimp, Santa clause 
 and any thing that tickles your fancy. There's also some downloadable content for the game and 
 unlock you new sets of clothes and jewellery.
  
  Overall the game is very enjoyable and great fun but the story lacks depth and the online isn't 
 the best so I'm giving this game a 7.5/10. This game is a very good game to see you through until 
 GTA4 comes out and will keep you entertained. On the plus side the game does feature some very 
 good innovative ideas like Insurance Fraud and for that reason it shouldn't be discarded as just 
 another GTA rip off look-a-like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comairjets8
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  I made the mistake of playing saint"s row after completing Grand Theft Auto 4. Had I played the 
 game beforehand, I think that I would have appreciated it more. I"m sure when it came out that 
 it was a successful Grand Theft Auto rip-off and I can kind of see why. The graphics are better 
 than all of the GTA games pre GTA 4 because it is supported by the XBOX 360, which obviously allows 
 for improved graphics. But playing Saint's row was boring after so much GTA action. I couldn't 
 get into the game even though it had a decent story. I wasn't able to complete the game, because 
 I just wasn't having fun, which is crucial when playing video games. I just find myself wishing 
 that I had acquired an XBOX 360 earlier so I could have enjoyed the game before GTA came out. Maybe 
 I will get Saint's Row 2, but I still can't see how anything can compare to GTA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is, let's face it, a complete rip-off of GTA. Playing the game, I was constantly shocked 
 at just how much the game steals almost identically from GTA. You can spray over gang sprayings 
 and take over gang territories like in San Andreas. Hidden CDs replace the hidden packages. You 
 play a rising star in organized crime. It takes place in a fictional American city. The cars have 
 many radio stations, and the talk portions try and be humourous. There are warrant levels represented 
 by stars, Pay N' Spray's are replaced by the analogous Confessionals. The list could go on for 
 quite some time. This complete lack of originality hurts the game insofar as the whole experience 
 feels stolen.
  
  That said, Saints Row does make a few changes from GTA, and some are definitely improvements. The 
 targeting system, though not perfect, is still much better than that of GTA III, Vice City, and 
 San Andreas. The lines on the maps showing you how to get where you want to get to, is also incredibly 
 helpful. The city is sufficiently large, though it lacks the distinct character of Vice City and 
 San Andreas.
  
  The missions vary in difficulty, but only occasionally are they hard enough to require more than 
 2 or 3 attempts to complete. That said, the missions tend to be longer the GTAs missions, and a 
 lack of any checkpoints (and frequently there are many perfect places they could be put) is frustrating 
 when you're forced to redo something you've already done, easy or not. The controls in the many 
  missions are also clumsy and annoying making 
 those missions probably the worst in the game.
  
  Another nice touch is the ability to collect "homies" and call them up to help you fight. The ability 
 to revive them should they die is handy. Another nice touch is the regenerating health which helps 
 prevent frustrating deaths since before engaging a new group of badguys you can always stand back 
 and wait for you health to go back up.
  
  The game suffers from some annoying loading glitches which, on multiple occasions, locked up my 
 Xbox to the point where the only solution was to turn the system off. Despite the release of a 
 patch, these didn't go away, though for whatever reason they seemed to happen less and less as 
 the game went on. Perhaps just a coincidence. Regardless, it was incredibly annoying when such 
 things happened during a mission, especially when I was already well into it, which occurred on 
 several occasions. Some other glitches forced me to restart missions when the sound disappeared 
 (another loading issue) which prevented mission objectives from showing up on the map, making them 
 impossible to do. Another time, a character got stuck in a wall, but I was required to rescue her 
 which then became impossible. It really feels like the game was rushed out and not polished as 
 well as it should have been.
  
  The story is also not very compelling. It mostly consists of taking over territories of rival gangs 
 until you've taken them all. Each gang has its own subplot, but they're not terribly interesting. 
 The story does start to get a bit more interesting before it ends, but is abruptly cut short by 
 the ending.
  
  The music on the radio is also terrible, so much so that I had to turn the music volume right down. 
 There wasn't enough variation in the types of songs, and what songs were there just grated. I wasn't 
 a fan of San Andreas's soundtrack, either, but it had a few stations and songs that were decent 
 enough that it didn't get annoying. Perhaps its too much to ask that every GTA-style game have 
 a soundtrack as good as Vice City.
  
  Saints Row isn't bad, and being a Platinum Hit, can be picked up for a decent price these days. 
 I'd recommend it if you like GTA, so long as you can deal with the issues I've discussed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  As I said, very underappreciated, people have simply avoided this game due to it being too much 
 like GTA, it is, but it brings so much more to the mix with so many more ways to do them. It has 
 endless customization options, you can make anyone from Sylvester Stallone to Bill Gates, and it 
 doesn't end there, any car stolen from the streets can be pimped out to the max with gold plated 
 rims, tinted black windows and hydraulics. The game isn't just about customizing everything, it 
 has some nice little mini-games and loads of variety mission-wise. Each mission is about both gaining 
 respect and money which doesn't give the game the best storyline, You start off the game with creating 
 your character, he can easily be changed by visiting a plastic surgeon so don't worry about his 
 looks too much if you don't like them, then you are pitted in the middle of a gang war with lots 
 of gangs dishing it out to one another. This is where you basically join a gang called "3rd street 
 saints". So now you know that your further missions are going to be based around gang life. The 
 story lacks oomph, but does offer loads of variety and ways you can commit crimes, you also have 
 these little side missions which you have to complete to get respect (which needs to be gained 
 because you need respect to start missions) , these small side missions are some sort of crime that 
 wrongs both rival gangs and cops, so you will most likely have to deal with these people during 
 the process, side missions range from drug trafficking to insurance fraud. 
  
  The graphics aren't perfect with the characters and environment looking a bit bland at times as 
 well as the weird lighting effects. The sound is great though the bullets and cars lack some sort 
 of power and end up sounding dull, the soundtrack is great with hundreds of songs to be heard while 
 driving and gunning your way to supremacy.
  
  One thing you know for sure about these games is that you will definitely get your moneys worth 
 with the amount of content and options the game features so you won't be walking into one of the 
 many scams that other games are featuring. The game also has multiplayer which is absolutely fantastic, 
 but is only available if you have xbox live. Overall, a great game that shouldn't be passed up 
 by free- roaming fans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A22A221N_47
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  They make it have most of the features that GTA has but it's confusing and boring and i don't even 
 know if there really is even a story or not, this game is just a very crappy version of GTA. They 
 tried to make it fun by adding that insurance fraud mini game or whatever and it doesn't even really 
 explain what you have to do, i kept trying that mini game and never raised enough money so i got 
 sick of it and stopped. Then i tried the story mode i kept getting so annoyed with it because the 
 enemy killed you so fast and you have to start all the way at the beginning of the mission which 
 meant you had to drive all the way bad to where the enemy was and watch the cut-scene over and 
 over again it was so annoying. Another thing that i thought was weird was that the main character 
 never talked, he never talked or made any sound, if people asked him a question or something someone 
 else would answer for him. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiveDj
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great game in many ways its fun and immersive story mode give you lultiple things 
 to do. As in find a car upgrade it. Do some cool activities like, Fraud insurance, Demolitioon 
 Derby, Mayhem, and etc.
  
  The game swonderful multiplayer expirence will leave you wanting for more i personally played this 
 game for about a year and was still in love with it. You can create and custimize your own character 
 online and offline, form a wide variety of clothes and accessories. This game is the whole package.
 
  
  The bad though is that the multiplyer has some flaws like stand by. baseball bat glitching where 
 you cant be seen and you can run around and kill people with a base ball bat. But if you can still 
 kill them there just invisible. also the story mode is a little too short ofr most gamers it can 
 be beaten in a little under 5 hours.
  
  But me personally again i think this game is better than GTA in gerneral mainly beciase of its 
 multii [player this is a buy but you should just wait for the second one.
  
  Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sho565
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  SINGLE PLAYER-Anotherr game that has alot of freendom in it. Run around do what u want. If u are 
 a person who dont like to unlock different parts of the Island well this is a game for u. The Story 
 is about a gang called The Third Street Saints tyrying to reclaim a city/Island called Stilwater. But 
 while they do it thier is 3 other gangs trying to take over the whole city as well Westside Rollerz, Los 
 Carnalez, and the Vice Kingz. Just like in real life they all have gang colors Saints wear Purple, Rollerz 
 wear Blue, Carnalez wear Red, and the Kingz wear Yellow. Coming up wont b easy because having to build 
 up respect to do Missions and Strongholds to complete the story will be fun. If your a person who 
 like side quests then doing activities around Stilwater should help keep u busy. Demolition Derby, Insuarance 
 Fraud, Escort, Drug Trafficking, Pimp, Hitman, Chop Shop, Highjacking, Racing, and Mayhem. All the activities 
 go up to level8 making it harder n harder. The thing is that thiers a total of 29 activities. The 
 thing that I cant figure out is why that thier is only 1 location for Demolution Derby. Thier are 
 mutiple weaopon to choose from. U have Assault Rifles, SMG's, Sniper Rifles, Rocket Launchers, Pistols, Shotguns, and 
 Melee. About almost every thing u do u get respect for it. The Saints do react with u on the street 
 like for example if I wore to hit some1 and another Saint is near they would all gang up on your 
 target.
  
  
  Multiplayer/Online-Ok more additive then Single Player trust me. Online is alot more fun because 
 thiers different game modes u can play like Protect Tha Pimp, Blinged Out Ride, Team Big Ass Chains, Big 
 Team Gangsta Brawl. Those were the team game modes now for Free-For-All u have Gangsta Brawl and 
 Big Ass Chains.
  The object for Protect The Pimp has two different sides which r the Gunmen and the Hitmen. Its the 
 Hitman job to gun down the pimp n make sure the Pimp dont get to the exit. Now for the Gunment its 
 up for the Gunmen to escort the pimp to safety.
  The Object for Blinged Out Ride is just raising money to uprade ur old Hoopty CAR to a Sweet Ride 
 from lvl1 to 4.
  Team Big Ass Chains is about killing the enemy for their chain and dropping it off.
  Team Gangsta 
 Brawl is just a Deathmatch Team witht the most kills wins.
  U do have all weapons from SP when only u play PTP and BOR for the other games u have to find them 
 in tunnels and hidden areas. But u do start out with a little pistol lol. The only thing that I dont 
 like about online is that ur Sprint Runs out fast. And I love to eat a burger when lose of health. Compotition 
 is tough against other players over XBL thats y thiers game lobbys. One last thing when u win or 
 lose thier will always be a Narrator when u win or lose.
  
  Well thats all im Sho565 and u just read my reveiw about SAINTS ROW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamespoo
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 19, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Sadly, i didn't get the game at the time the multiplayer was awesome, it was starting to die when 
 i got it.
  
  Anyway.
  
  Single player - 10/10 - Missions are awesome, activities (insurancce fraud mainly) is amazing.
 
  
  Music - 8/10 - So much variety, rock,. pop, classical, loads.
  
  Online - 7/10 (now) it's difficult to get a game.
  
  Minigames 10000/10 - So many, so much 
 variety, you can't beat pimping, or destruction derby now, can you??
  
  I would buy this, because at xbox360a. org you can boost the online achievements with people, easy.
 
  There are a variety of weapons, vehicles and yeah, i would say rent it first, cos you may not 
 like it.
  
  One last note, the character customization is amazing, you can have loads of clothhes, tatoos, 
 haircuts, and if you don't likle it, you can pay for plastic surgerey even for skin colour.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame-lord
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  This game is all about having a good time, and nothing short of it. Its all about the money, the 
 guns, the explosions, and eveything else in between. Not only is this game really fun, it looks 
 and play good aswell. Most people see it as a GTA clone, but I see it as something new, and something 
 froma different veiw, and a company trying to go for the audience that likes to have fun.
  
  When you first start out, youre nothing. You work you're way up through the 3rd St. Saints 
 mission by mission. You'll end up with better cribs, the abilty to recruit more homies, and more. 
 This game packs some much fun into itself that it could explode. Trust me, this game rocks.
  
  With the recent release of GTA 4, Saints Rows grapichs arent the best, but they're still very 
 well done. Plus you have almost unlimited customization to youre character. Plus, you have the 
 abilty to Mod almost any car on the roads, which is pretty sweet. While there is some screen tearing 
 here and there, its nothing that breaks the game. They actually include V-sync with a recent patch 
 I do believe, which can be turned on/off manually in the options.
  
  The sounds are pretty good, although with my experience, it has cut out here and there, but nothing 
 majorly game breaking. The lip-syncing is alright, not the best, but ok. The voice overs are just 
 plain good. They did a great job getting voice actors. Even though your guy hardly speaks through 
 the game, when he does, its usually something funny or out of the way.
  
  The controls are easy to get used to, and if you cant you can change them pretty easily. The animations 
 are pretty fluid, well very fluid with Ragdoll. The Ragdoll in this game is over the top, and by 
 over the top I mean funny. When you hit someone with a car, grenade, rocket or anyhting really, 
 they react in a funny way that will having you do nothing but spend hours mowing people down with 
 cars, or blowing people up.
  
  All in all, this game is a musy have, and with the second one aound the corner, you best get playing 
 soon because this game is hard to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartinx3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Saints row is the best game of its kind because it has ALOT of stuff that i wanted out of gta. 
 One of the things that it has is the graphics are really good especially the cutscene's they are 
 really detailed and focused and also there are various more people in the city and gang and gang 
 member characters there is alot more stuff to do like YOU CAN ACTUALLY ROB PLACES HELL YEA, race 
 cars do hitman activitys do escort and MUCH MORE. and also wen you start YOU CREATE YOUR CHARACTER 
 NOT HAVE TO BE WHOEVER THEY PICKED FOR YOU. You can also adjust your wieght and look race ect... 
 it goes in deeper of what YOU WANT and thats why saints row is so popular YOU MAY SAY THAT ITS 
 A GTA RIP OFF BUT IF THATS SO ITS A GOOOOOOD!! ONE. Also they added a part where you can play a 
 couple of maps with a friend CO OP and the MOST IMPORTANT MODE A GAME SHOULD HAVE MULLTYPLAYER!!! 
 SAINTS ROW DELIVERS AGAIN so yea thats why i decided to give it a 10 out of 10 because it has EVERYTHING 
 YOU WANT EVEN CREATE AN ONLINE GANG RECRUIT AND CHALLENGE OTHER GANGS ONLINE EXCELLENT OFFLINE 
 AND ONLINE. 
  PS. I RECOMMEND THIS GAME TO ANYONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  saints row is like sed gta inspired game wll its begins in the street that 
  some gangs are fighting then a guy tryes to shoot you but the saints save you then the game begins 
 you have to do some missions for them
  the graphic in the game is awesome i and you have to do activity to earn respect from respect you 
 do missions well when you have done all missions except 1 you normally will have completed 67-66 
 procent of the game and the final missions wants you to have 100 procent so for 100 procent you 
 will have to do all missions except the final one and all activitis and founded all cds. and the 
 story line is awesome that the saints have been down and the carnales vice king and roller have 
 been taking over the streets very good thinking of the story writers. you cannot fly airplane and 
 dont ride motorcykle but it's many racing and luxury cars but the saints row 2 will be realased 
 14 october i hope that the saints row 2 will be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harry4herms
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  This is by far the best gangster game I've played in quite a while. It has so many unique things 
 not found in the GTA games.
  
  If you are looking for a new style gangsta experience get this game!
  
  One of the biggest 
 differences between this and the GTA series is that you are dependant on your "homies". You can 
 attempt a mission without recruiting them, but it would be a futile attempt.
  
  There are 6 (I think that is right) type of mini-games of activities you can do to earn respect 
 and more cash. The weapons are varied (thought sometimes lacking) and the vehicles are fun to drive.
 
  
  The graphics is excellent! The characters look great, explosions are awesome and the heat effects 
 just blows you away!
  
  If you like GTA and you ain't bothered by knock-off (even if it was done with such great style!) 
 this is a MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  the bottom line with this is that is fun, original and despite what you say it does not copy gta. 
 it is similar in the platform but offers completely new innovative story line that is a bit more 
 like really growing up in the hood. if i had to compare it to a game i would say it can stand alone 
 as its own title. the major thing i liked about this is taking over districts of hoods and parts 
 of the city and also having turf wars witch was loads of fun. the story line is awsome and even 
 now it holds up with extremely solid gameplay and graphics. this one is a definitely worth buying. 
 the only thing i didnt like was the ending but im not going to spoil it for you....... to be completely 
 honest i like this better then gta 4 and felt like the story line was much better and if this offered 
 online gameplay the same way as gta offers then it would blow it up out of the water. i bet this 
 one wont glitch online like gta and leave you punching a wall. buy it and then count the days to 
 saints row two.. oh ya baby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 27, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Had the Grand Theft Auto games never existed it's proper to say that Saints Row could have been 
 one of the best games released on the Xbox 360. Sadly Grand Theft Auto does exist and you can't 
 help but see where Saints Row gets most of it's gameplay from. Sadly Saints Row is nothing but 
 a cheap copy of Grand Theft Auto with a cut down story, annoying and repetitive activities and 
 the same old clunky combat Grand Theft Auto 
  suffered from in the past. If one was to not compare this game to Grand Theft Auto it'd score an 
 easy 8.5-9.0 but with games like GTA IV and Vice City out there, this game simply does not stand 
 a chance. 
  
  The graphics in Saints Row are mediocre at best. While the game goes for a more comic book style 
 of graphics it really looks like a last generation game on the 360. The character models aren't 
 very impressive and nothing really stands out. For the most part the graphics in Grand Theft Auto 
 San Andreas were actually on par with this game. There really isn't any more then this to be said 
 about the graphics. The presentation of the game is mediocre, the city has an alright feel but 
 it hardly compares to the environments seen in other free roam games. Nothing really feels alive 
 and everything feels as if it was just thrown in there and has no purpose. I always see the same 
 things too around the city and every part of the city looks the same. The sound in the game is 
 mediocre as well. The dialogue is corny and lazily written and the sound effects sound dated at 
 this point. The radio stations are alright but it's obvious they tried to copy the wit and humor 
 of Grand Theft Auto's radio station, this is a miserable failure. 
  
  The story and game play of Saints Row can be summed up with one word by one word for both, Abysmal 
 and Alright. First off there is no story in the game, don't come here expecting an epic tale of 
 redemption and revenge. Rather come expecting a game that is just a glorified version of the gang 
 wars you get in San Andreas. The story begins with your custom made character caught in a firefight 
 which ignites a city wide gang war. You are taken in by the Third Street Saints and you essentially 
 go through the gang trying to take out the other gangs and control the city. Other then this there 
 is no story in the game. The game play is mediocre, the driving feels good and is easy to control 
 but the combat is clunky. It's alright and does the job but it can be very tedious. Activities 
 are an annoying addition to the game play formula. Personally I hated doing the same repetitive 
 tasks in order to get respect. Sadly this is not a choice activity but rather it's mandatory if 
 you want to advance through the game. Don't expect to find anything new that's worth checking out 
 here.
  
  What did I like about this game? The only things in this game that were excellent were the amount 
 of customization. I really liked making my own character and dressing him however I wanted. Cars 
 are also very customizable which is cool to see. There is also a lot of fun to be had doing some 
 of the activities notably Mayhem and Insurance Fraud, the rest on the other hand were just boring 
 like the escort missions for instance. Another good thing about the game was it had decent mission 
 variety, it's not just kill this and that but sometimes you get to do different things like masquerade 
 yourself as a limo driver to get to your victim to go under cover as the rival gang and cause mayhem. 
 Sadly some of this mission variety is ruined by frustratingly difficult missions which happen randomly. 
 
  
  All in all Saints Row is a poor game and really was intended only to be build up for the eventual 
 release of GTA IV. If you're really tired of GTA IV give this game a rent to see if you like it. 
 If you're a GTA fan expecting to find something new don't bother. Just go back to Vice City or 
 San Andreas, you'll have a lot more fun. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLMartin
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  This is a truely amazing game it offers a range of things from free roam to racing. The Graphics 
 are outstanding they are top notch. In the game there are loads of things to do you can do missions 
 or do other activites, The story missions are pretty spread out you have three choices to choose 
 from, the Rollers , the Los Canarles and The vice kings That is what i think games should be like 
 you have the ability to free roam but when you really want to focus you can do the missions. The 
 customizations would have to be the best part of the game, you can customize just about eveything 
 it is one of the greatest customization games in the world there are only oneor two bad points 
 like they need a wider range of vehicles you dont see any trace of a motorcycle or speed boat and 
 your character doesn't say much but thats about it those are the bad things about i. overall i 
 think this game is fantastic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holy_terr0r
Rating: 8
Date: May 22, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the release of Saints Row, I was just like, holy crap, i really want that game. It looked 
 pretty fantastic, especially after watching all the previews I did. So, after a bit, I bought Saints 
 Row, and I don't regret it. 
  I expected Saints Row to be a lot of things, but, as I played and played, I realized it wasn't 
 as good as I thought it would be, although it was still good. The graphics are pretty nice, gameplay 
 is fun, and the activities like pimping and drug trafficking bring a new level of fun and sometimes 
 frustration, to Saints Row. The main storyline was fun, and was set at the perfect difficulty level. 
 Your objective is to wipe out the 3 rival gangs: Los Carnales, Vice Kings, and Westside Rollerz. 
 Each gang has it's own storyline and missions to follow, all the side videos of whats going on 
 behind the scenes, and watching the gang lords complain as you take their gangs apart bit by bit. 
 Also, you have territorial gang wars between one another, in which you have to kill the gang lieutenants, 
 for the rights to own Stilwater. Then, usually they end up with a pathetic fight to take back their 
 territory, in which you got to go back and defend it, while blasting the bejesus outta your opponents. 
 Overall, there's a lot to do, bringing you new options, Saints Row doesn't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steini_kallinn
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  I have to say that in the start of the game I did not like it, I thought it was too similar to 
 Grand Theft Auto, hard to get the police notoriety and the controls were little bit off. Though 
 after a while I got used to the controls, did some missions and just totally changed my mind about 
 it. There are so many things different in this game, like the GPS is a great idea, you set your 
 destination point on the map and you get generated path to were you are going. You can store unlimited 
 (so I think) cars to your garage so you can collect the ones you like and just use them over and 
 over again. You take the car out of your garage, drive to some place and leave it... it still is 
 in your garage next time you go to it, and even if you destroy it - you just pay $500 to fix it 
 and it is like new again.
  
  Features like taking hostages for cash and calling homeys for backup from your cellphone is just 
 genius. Shooting from a car has never been easier, and when you are getting shot badly in combat, 
 just duck for a while and you will heal back again. "Insurance fraud" activity is original idea, 
 you try to get run over by a car and you get points on how far you travel, how many cars you hit 
 and so on... with out actually loosing any health
  
  The story is little bit thin and predictable but there are so many things in this game that kept 
 me playing for so long. Like the "Hit-man" activity were you hunt down people with specific weapons 
 is real time-killer. The rewards for completing the activities are worth spending time on completing 
 them. Would recommend this game for all who can let their "Grand Theft Auto" ego aside and enjoy 
 this new flavor in "Modern Action Adventure". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SweeneyTodd23
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Fun to play, but needs work.
  
  Price: The price is reasonable. You should purchase it between 14.99 to 19.99.
  
  The Game: 
 No, its not a rip off to GTA games, because the story tells you that you are part of the Saints 
 (the purple gang or 3rd Street Saints) . You get to create a male player (no ladies unfortunately) 
 and just go around and take over all the places as possible, plus the side missions.
  
  The Graphic: Very good, some bits are tacky but hey, its the next generation game for goodness 
 sakes! the graphics are meant to be good.
  
  The Sound: The voiceovers are good, but your created rarely talks but at some points he does, the 
 soundtrack is amazing but if you don't like any of those tracks (why not?) than stick an MP3 or 
 a downloaded music into your 360 and play your own tunes its that easy.
  
  Lifespan: Stories, side missions and plenty of things to do at Stillwater.
  
  Why you buy it?
 
  Its similar to GTA
  Its fun
  plenty of weapons to choose from
  Good Multiplayer game
  Good story line to this game
  
  Why you leave it?
  The online game has too many glitches 
 as well as single player mode
  You don't ride bikes or helicopters in this
  There are no genders or ages (pretty much like The Sims 2 its fun to be a kid or a pensioner!)
 
  You fall over like a crash dummy
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnigManic
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  This innovative sandbox game took the genre in a new direction. Applying a different formula than 
 the GTA games, Saints Row presents an original plot explored by a character you create.
  
  A random joe, new to the big city, witnesses a murder and gets caught in a gang war. Dodging stray 
 gunfire, he is saved by members of the Saints who recruit him into their gang. You'll help the 
 Saints wipe out three other gangs for control of the city, carrying out missions in any order while 
 enjoying several unique side activities which offer unlockable features and achievements.
  
  Decent dialog and voice acting accompany the stylishly detailed graphics and superb gameplay. 
 A broad range of customization also adds flavor to the game. Your character can be fully customized 
 from his face, ethnicity, hairstyle, height and build to clothes, jewelery, tattoos and piercings. 
 Vehicles can even be customized from paint job, window tint and rims to performance and aesthetic 
 upgrades. Furthermore, as you roam the city, vehicles are randomly generated in all variety of 
 color and enhancements.
  
  There are other features which set Saints Row apart from other sandbox games. Good controls, tons 
 of music and a large assortment of weapons spice things up. Unique characters can be called via 
 a cellphone to assist you in missions. You can also mark locations with way points on the map, 
 and navigational routes are provided and updated on the fly. There's some good downloadable content 
 from XBL, from themes and gamer pix to additional clothes and maps. The animations are innovative, 
 even your method of stealing cars varies - Sometimes your character will slam the driver's face 
 into the steering wheel, other times he'll shoot him in the head.
  
  Overall, Saints row is an incredible sandbox that provides an addictive open-ended experience, 
 taking the genre in it's own unique direction, as opposed to being just another GTA clone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaeren
Rating: 7
Date: May 9, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is no gta. it's way too cartoony, and comes off as goofy more often than not. but it's 
 not bad... just simple. the story is like merceanries with the different factions, and i have to 
 suggest i'm a little insulted that the different gangs are friggin color coded for your convenience. 
 "he's not wearing my color. i should shoot him the face!" that said.... the combat is really well 
 done. and mebbe gta 4 did in fact crib from this game.
  
  controls are just plain weird. nothing is intuitive, and a period of acclimation happens whenever 
 you sit down to play. "oh this button does that? really? really?" driving in specific has crazy 
 stupid controls. now opnce you get used to all this goof, the game actually plays pretty well. 
 the game does a job of not taking itself seriously, and keith david voice acting is always awesome.
 
  
  the game length is relatively short... under 20 hrs average. and the side missions are required 
 not optional; if you intend to finish the game anyway.
  respect as a mechanic for leveling is nifty, and immediate access to the game's arsenal based on 
 how much money you got is nice for level grinders too.
  
  all told, do not play this after gta4. it'll be ruined for you. so play this first, and you'll 
 be fine. a gta clone that finally gets a pass, albeit just barely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:17 am PT
Review:  If there ever was a law for copyright infringment in the video game industry, than Volition (The 
 Punisher, Red Faction) would be covered in law suits up to their noses. Serioulsly, there has never 
 been a GTA clone that has copied Rockstar's magnum opus to the ninth degree like the way "Saint's 
 Row" does. This is a game that doesn't just borrows ideas from "Grand Theft", but copies them. 
 The only thing it doesn't do is spoof the criminal life. That's one thing Rockstar does better 
 than any of their competitors do. 
  
  Thankfully, in midst of all the copied ideas, Volition has actually made a pretty fun game. It 
 ranks up with last gen's "Scarface" in terms of pure enjoyability. And just like "Scarface", there 
 a couple of unique missions that Rockstar did not manage to come up with. Oh, and improvements 
 to the GTA formula are also evident such as the targeting and car physics. Did I mention there 
 are also full blown online modes which are ground breaking for the genre? In addition, I neglected 
 to mention the create a character mode which is detailed as any of the "Tiger Woods" or WWE versions. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, there is much screen tearing. Still, fun factor comes up big with "Saint's", but 
 the sequel will be better. Until then, if you want a great alternate to GTA, there's no better 
 clone out on the market yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEANMACHINE15
Rating: 9
Date: May 2, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Saints row is a game that can give any person satisfaction and pleasure whilst you do all the things 
 that you want to do.
  
  .drive fast cars
  .drive by's
  .guns, guns and more guns
  .fat chicks
  .drive thru
  .good online play
  .solid single player
  .hit and runs
  
 
  Saints row is a game where you join a gang known as the third street saints which at the start 
 of the game is the smallest gang of the four, BUT, when you start the game you get to customize 
 the man with no name A. K. A your character. you control what happens in stillwater (city you play 
 in) by doing missions or capturing stronhold or even if you want to free roam around the city this 
 game lets you do all of that. The main aim of the game is to capture and rule the streets of stillwater 
 by defeating the three other gangs in the city.
  -vice kings (easiest of the free)
  -los carnales
  -rollerz (harder of the three)
  who control different parts of the city. Rollerz 
 mostly have control of the suburb and chinatown area, Vice king hang round downtown and museum areas 
 while the carnales are mainly situated around the docks area. Now i won't say much about the online 
 play as it is overshadowed by the single player story but the online play has different modes like 
 protect the pimp and gangsta brawl but it kinda sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rivalmage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great Gta inspired game and if you don't already own a copy. get down to the shop 
 and buy it today! 
  
  Take on the role of a custom created character and as the 3rd street saints, a gang of petty street 
 thugs, get your gang all the way to the top. Take on 3 other gangs, The vice kings, Los Carnales 
 and The Westside rollers. You are free to explore the open world in whatever way you want. you 
 can go for a walk past the Stadium or you can rip up the roads in a car, van or lorry. There are 
 many missions to take part in. There are also plenty of Side missions to quench your thirst for 
 adrenaline. 
  
  Aswell as the single player campaign there is a multiplayer mode. In multiplayer you can customize 
 and invite members into your own gang, and take on other gangs to get your gang ranking up on the 
 leaderboards.
  
  You can also play against random xbox live users. There are many Online game modes. 
  
  I would 
 reccomend this game and i give it a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egg_Maestro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  At first glance, Saint's Row just seems to be another rip-off of the highly successful GTA franchise. 
 But when you delve deeper into the game, you see that it actually has some merits of it's own. 
 
  
  Saint's Row has great graphics and looks brilliant in HD. Lighting effects, in particular, look 
 good and is a big improvement over last-gen GTA games. Gameplay is definitely one of the highlights 
 of the game - it's so much fun! Firing rocket launchers endlessly and running down peds (and watching 
 them fly over your bumper is hilarious) doesn't get old quickly, but you do often feel slightly 
 restricted.
  
  For one thing, you can only drive cars. There are no bikes, boats or helicopters to commandeer 
 so you'll be stuck on the streets. There isn't much interaction with the environment which does 
 make the city seem slightly bland. But generally, the city looks pretty good and the districts 
 all look different from each other. 
  
  The story is alright, but won't keep you gripped or interested for too long. The really fun to 
 be had is in the side missions and just messing around. The side missions consist of things like 
 Racing, Drug Trafficking, Mayhem and Assassination missions. Overall, this will probably be what 
 gets most of your attention.
  
  XBOX Live features in the game, with online multiplayer as an option. It isn't great but for those 
 waiting for GTA IV to come out, it's an alternative worth thinking about.
  
  Saint's Row has its flaws and doesn't come close to matching GTA, but it's definitely a great game 
 and worthwhile buy for GTA fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonbert
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Saints row is the greatest video game ever made
  
  Not only is the story and regular playing great and long lasting but messing around provides hundreds 
 of hours of fun
  
  Best game ever made and that title will not be taken by any game besides saints row 2 and 3 and 
 so on
  
  The fun this game can provide is nearly endless
  
  All Xbox 360 owners should have this game
  
  And people who don't have Xbox 360 should go buy 
 one just for this game
  
  I dont want to go into extreme details about the game but this thing says my review has to be 100 
 words or more
  
  Basically its like GTA but WAAAAAAAAY better
  
  Its basically like GTA but with better and more cars and weapons actual gang storyline
  
  And 
 you can have up to 3 of your game members go everywhere with you anytime you want
  
  Way better and easier to turn on cheats than GTA
  
  You get to have a garage with like 100 
 cars storage in it theres also tons of fun side modes in addition to the 100s of hours of messing 
 around for fun I mentioned
  
  Cars are fully customizable and you can actually swim you get to have your own houses and stuff
 
  
  Sheesh you know I can review this game in 1 sentence "Saints row is just like GTA but way better" 
 but this thing insists on 100 words and 800 characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aweebo
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Horrible, aburrido y torpe juego, copia de GTA, las misiones de "destruccion" son de las ms pendejas 
 misiones que he jugado, solo consisten en tirar postes no pude soportar jugar ms de dos horas 
 por dos dias, hice mi mejor esfuerzo en quedar enganchado y nada, el juego est lleno de cliches, 
 situaciones comunes y la historia es ridiculamente tonta.
  
  Mejor jueguen el GTA, no jueguen este "wanna be" de GTA, en verdad no vale la pena el dinero que 
 puedan gastar, si pueden consiganlo prestado, vean de que se trata y quizs coincidamos en que 
 este juego apesta cao
  
  No puedo darles una opinin ms amplia de Saints Row porque NO pienso desperdiciar mi tiempo jugando 
 este HORRENDO juego.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -r4z0rbl4d3-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2008 1:01 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row was a shocker to me. Not only did it release close to the launch of the 360 (without 
 really having any commercial attention) with amazing graphics and physics (that few games has surpassed 
 since) , it also took free-roam into the next generation of games and single handedly rose the bar 
 of what to expect from the games on the new generation of consoles.
  
  I love the GTA-games to bits and played all of them for insane numbers of hours so for me it was 
 a no brainer that I needed to get this game. I didn't expect much but boy, did it rock! SR has 
 everything that GTA 3 had (Note: the original game, not VC and SA) and a more. Free-roam, car jacking, 
 bullets flying, bombs a' blowing and a living, breathing city to call your own. SR has a more of 
 a story than GTA 3 did and features great voice acting. It also has a butt load of side-missions 
 to do, with hijacking, drug dealing, car stealing, killing, pimping and more.
  
  The graphics are great. Unlike the more cartoony feel of GTA, SR has a more realistic approach. 
 The city feels alive and active with loads of cars and people moving around all the time. Add to 
 that an amazing physics engine (Havoc) where the car models litterally fall apart piece by piece 
 when you race around the city or unleash the wrath with an RPG upon the living. Also, there is 
 the customization. You can customize your character in every way. The way he looks, the clothes 
 he weares, the hair, everything. Whether you want to be a skinny latino, inbred white trash or 
 a sumo asian, you can.
  
  Then there is the atmosphere of Stillwater (the city you play in) . People move around, chatting 
 to them selves or pointing out that you are a lousy driver, music pumping out in passing cars, 
 parking maids writing tickets, mail trucks delivering mail, taxis picking up people, music being 
 played on your MP3-player with all the rock music you could find in the store. It feels alive and 
 radiant.
  
  On the downside, there isn't any motorbikes, airplanes or helicopters you can try out, but then 
 again, SR 2 is on it's way and getting all the features they managed into the first game is a feat 
 in it self. For a first try at free-roam, I'd say Volition did a hell of a job!
  
  The reason I picked it up again is obvious... GTA 4 is on it's way and I just can't wait! So, what 
 better way to warm up than to play the only real contender to GTA on the free-roam-crime-spree-mayhem 
 that is Saint's Row? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Milesj2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  This game for me is one of the best games out there for the xbox 360, simply because there are 
 hours of endless fun the be had. Also i've played this game on xbox live which is also amazing 
 but there are a few problems with it, for one it sometimes can take quite a long time to get into 
 a game which can be a little anoying wating for the other players. The second point is that there 
 are no moto bikes or any for that matter, in it self isnt a great problem but the game manufactues 
 have conpensated for this by making a far superer sequil. But the game as a hole is fantastac and 
 well worth buying the sequil. This review must end somewhere but for now if you intersted in the 
 game firther then i sugest you look at some the videos that have been made, the immages and some 
 of the other reviews to get an over all picture of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshcutgrass1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Plot: Saints Row starts you out as a unamed charcter that you create so your gangter will be just 
 as you want. You join a gang called the 3rd Street Saints and you do jobs for the gang to take 
 over the city.
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent, polished and the framerate is good for the most part. But 
 when the real gang wars start happening and there are many explosions you can expect to see a slight 
 framerate drop. The explosions in Saints Row are ridiculus they are the best available in gaming. 
 The smoke, fire and debris look sick. The cars and building are good but they're missing something. 
 Stopping there the game has excellent graphics but when you're on highways you will see the terrible 
 draw distance, with cars disappearing everywhere even right next to you. Worse than that the highway 
 will sometimes disappear from under you and your car is a aircraft now. Anytime you move at high 
 speed buildings will pop-up right in front of you. If you get past those glitches the game looks 
 amazing.
  Gameplay: The gameplay is simple and to the point, anyone who has played GTA games ( Everyone ) 
 will feel right at home. The only difference being that there is no lock-on aiming like in GTA, 
 it feels like a breath of fresh air. But Saints Row offers something that GTA hasn't and that's 
 multiplayer. With gamemodes like protect the pimp and big ass chains the multiplayer is unique 
 and fun. It just suffers from lag every now and then, but the multiplayer is tons of fun.
  Sound: The voice acting is good and the lines are funny and remind many of GTA while having its 
 own style. The enironmental sounds are good, the music is catchy and memorable.
  Value: Saints Row has good value, it will give you around 30-40 hrs of play offline and online 
 is very fun so most players could be playing Saints Row for +100 Hrs. 
  Achievements: They include you getting %100 in the single player and reaching certain ranks in 
 multiplayer.
  Tilt: Saints Row is the 1st sucessful GTA clone. It has the same core gameplay with many little 
 differences and additions which are all for the better. The multiplayer is awesome and has creative 
 gametypes and objectives. With a few graphical glitches and at times laggy multiplayer while those 
 are problems they don't ruin the game and make Saints Row easily reccomended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnchcnch
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is an amazing free-roaming game with a fun factor that has only been equaled by the 
 laughs of Portal and has kept me coming back for 86 hours (as of this writing) and is my 4th most 
 played 360 games if 360voice is to be trusted. To start ill talk about the small things that are 
 awesome about this entry to the genre.
  The taxi a small but welcome change that allows you to travel across the city so you don't have 
 to send time driving the long distance or finding the subway closest to you and taking some dudes 
 car to get to the location you wanted to go. A major improvement is the garage in the GTA series 
 you are given two slots be house and you can only access. So if you like a car you would need to 
 drive like a grandma in order to avoid hurting the car in anyway. In Saints Row you are given an 
 infinite amount of space to store cars and they can be accessed from every crib (house) plus those 
 pimped out cars will be repairable for a mere $500, which allows you to drive like the road enraged 
 freak in your street racer, you know HOW IT WAS MEANT TO BE! 
  Now the Activities, not much has changed in the Story department your part of a gang and need to 
 get respect and kill the other gangs but near the end was cool you need to terrorize the city because 
 a politician is holding your gang leader ransom. MAJOR lol :P. The side activities outside the 
 story are new and original ( most are anyway) There is everything from the all too true insurance 
 fraud to the good old fashion Hitman missions. There is Hijacking, where you have a limited time 
 to hunt down the car and steal it and return it to the shop before it explodes. There is the Chop 
 Shop activity is a little like being a bounty hunter but for cars not people. Rampage is the normal 
 MAKE EVERYTHING BLOW UP!!! mission. Racing many not be new but it keeps the cars you race with 
 in the same class as the car your racing with for example if you have a van you will race other 
 vans not a sport car. 
  Of all the missions these last two are the funniest. First Is Snatch where you are tasked wit h 
 rescuing "hoes" from the pimps who are smacking them like they are trying to work at Burger King. 
 NOW for the most entertaining activity...... The winner is Escort, tasks you with driving around 
 a hooker as she and her client (male or female lol) say dirty things to each other as you need to 
 dodge News Vans or P. I. s as well as do things like jumping because the client gets off on it or 
 taking them to a motel. 
  
  Overall Saints Row offers entertainment for a hungry GTA fan or for a person who enjoys free-roaming 
 games.
  I give it a 8.9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Catacome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Haha... I enjoy this game a lot. It has so much to do and so many things to see. Ok so I am going 
 to break it down for ya. You go through Stilwater as a created fully customized player (That you 
 create) and You join the 3rd street Saints. Julius (The leader) Helps you out in the beggining 
 when there is a gang war going down on the corner. It's your turn to die when you hear BANG! Your 
 blood isn't on the concrete. Julius tells you that he needs help and to meet him at the church 
 when you are ready. You walk up on his speech about the 3 crazy gangs trying to take over Stilwater 
 while really all they are doing is tearing it apart. These 3 gangs are your enemy as you face them. 
 The Los Carnales, The Vice Kings (My Favorite) , and the WestSide Rollerz. You go through each of 
 these gangs taking on exciting missions but not without doing the many of different activities 
 on the side for respect to do these missions. Each respect bar is worth one mission. Anyways you 
 go through Stilwater helping Julius take it back. "Welcome to Stilwater." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -G3NEl21C-187-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  First off i would like to say im a real pro at this game I beat the single player 100% and I was 
 in the 7th ranked online SR gang in the world. So I'm a real vet when it comes to this game. And 
 i will be rating the areas the game focuses on this way you will be able to learn more of what 
 the game is about. 
  
  Story 6.5/10
  The story of saints row takes place in stillwater a fictional city that has been overcome by street 
 gang violence. Your player is just a nobody who lives in one of the worst districts of still water, 
 Saints row. In the being of the game your character is almost killed in a gang fight but is saved 
 by the purple wearing 3rd street saints. (The gang the runs saints row.) They save you and offer 
 you a place in the gang. Your character accepts and the rest is you n your gangs crazy adventures. 
 Your goal is to take down the other gangs of the city, the entire city is controlled by gangs. 
 The almost cartoonish graphics really and to the feel of the game and the game has a pretty liberal 
 feel to it as you can go anywhere in the city, shop at any store, buy any car and so forth. (Provided 
 you have the cash to pay for those things!)
  But there is no story structure so it really never comes all together unless you pay attention 
 or play it more than once. And the ridiculous cliff hangar ending was completely unexplained but 
 leaves alot of room for the sequel.
  
  Customization 9/10
  Customization is a huge part of saints row and its done pretty well. Shiny jewelry, fancy clothes, 
 ghetto clothes, stupid clothes saints row has it all! There are many types of clothes in many different 
 colors. More expensive clothes and purple clothes give you a bigger respect bonus after you complete 
 a mission, other than that they are pretty much for fun. But because you don't have bills to pay 
 in this game clothes will probably be what you spend your most your money on. Car customization 
 is also quite extensive. Its quite in depth and almost every car can be customized to look like 
 a dream car, when considering your can have a garage of unlimited cars that will not be lost even 
 when their destroyed, this feature is pretty cool. No gun customization and there are some really 
 annoying flaws though. Like not being able to wear bandannas over your face, gang members can wear 
 their bandannas over their face on their pant leg and as a headband. But you can only wear it as 
 a cap. This is dumb as they have already created the feature but did not apply it to your character. 
 Bandannas are a huge part of gang culture so this was a big mistake, other than that it was near 
 flawless. 
  
  Combat 9/10
  I really loved the combat system of saints row. It felt new at first but it let you switch weapons 
 REALLY fast and does it very smoothly. It is a free aiming system too so you can shoot any wear, 
 like a foot poking under neath a car or a head through a car window , pretty much if you can see 
 it, you can shoot it. Running, shooting, aiming, and switching weapons are all inter graded together 
 flawlessly and really allows for yous to get much better which made for some amazing online battles. 
 There is a decent range of weapons but more detail could have been put into them. The shot gun 
 could have felt more powerful as the same with the AK-47. Sadly there was no dismemberment only 
 a mist of blood where you shot someone, this could have made things much funner, besides you hear 
 the F- word every 2 secs, your hear strippers say some really nasty things, and you do tons of 
 more stuff and its all ready rated M so why no blood? Sadly the world may never know.
  
  Freedom /Stuff to do 8/10
  This is a sandbox game so you can do whatever you want to do but what 
 CAN you do? Alot of stuff. These are all the different activities, Hijacking, Hitman, Mayhem, Pimping, 
 Drug dealer protection, Sex escort, Chop shop, and some others i cant remember. You can shop at 
 every store from the begging of the game you may buy any car, buy any gun, , but you need money 
 for those. So you can hijack any car off the street a make the passengers hostages for ransom, do 
 any activity , do missions. Some people will drop 50 bucks or so if you kill them gang members 
 will drop money (Cops wont ) you may also rob stores. In addition to that You will earn a certain 
 amount of money automatically based on how much gang territory you own. Which can be picked up 
 at your house. Secret weapons, clothes, cars, can be unlocked for beating activities. There is 
 3 of each activity get something for beating one of them and a big something for beating all of 
 one kind.
  
  In conclusion you have a great game with great retail value. You may go on a cop killing rampage 
 or do a nice fun activity, or kill gang members, what ever it is saints row has probably got definetly 
 a buy since it went platinum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  Here we're looking at another GTA clone, fortunately, it's one of the better ones. While it sticks 
 to the Grand Theft Auto formula, it leaves out some gamepay elements from the GTA games, some you 
 will miss more than others. However, it also adds on some new inovations to the beloved GTA formula.
 
  
  The story part of the game which is about taking over the city from the other three gangs is pretty 
 enjoyable, sporting well designed and decently varied shooting and driving missions coupled with 
 an interesting story. I do have a complaint about howerver. You see Grand Theft Auto games had 
 you complete the first few missions, then have the option to work for someone else or finish the 
 missions at that location. You never knew in those games wich series of missions lead to a dead 
 end in the story and wich progressed the story towards the ultimate ending. In Saints Row it is 
 like that but divided into three sections for the most part, the missions against the Carnales, 
 the missions against the Vice Kings and the missions against the Rollerz. Your struggles with these 
 gangs are separate and have nothing to do with eachother. Basically, your going to be playing through 
 three separate stories rather than one. This seems disjointed but you could argue that having to 
 play throught three different stories with mainly completely different characters refreshing. In 
 the end it's just a matter of opinion. Note that nearly all the story missions have you working 
 for the Saints, you won't keep making new friends and recieve phone calls from random strangers 
 who need your help. (At least not until the climax of the game) . The map icons that indicate a 
 mission's start show the crest of whichever of the three rival gangs your up against or if if your 
 up againts two gangs or just some cops, it'll just show the Saint crest. Whereas in GTA they showed 
 the employers intials.
  
  The controls are tight and the game will have you aiming at your enemies rather than relying on 
 auto aim all the time, as opposed to GTA. The downside to this is that there is no lock on button. 
 You won; t need one when your using guns but this does cause your punches and kicks to miss alot 
 when you're in a melee battle. Also, most enemies can be beaten up with four or five puches. Did 
 I say beaten up? The game classifies it as killing them. Granted it's a bit daft but with so many 
 guns so cheaply available, melee is not a major part of the game anyway. It's just another way 
 to piss about.
  
  Pissing about is very fun in Saints Row, what with the great variety of weapons and destroying 
 cars never gets old becasue the explosions look so fantastic. The graphics are generally pretty 
 good and an HDTV will do justice to this, weather you run it in 720p,1080i or 1080p. This said, 
 there is unfortunately a lot of clipping, a bug where your car dissapears when your driving and 
 your sitting in an invisble car unable to moves and alot of artifacing, wich I think is the technichal 
 word for when the textures slice up. This mainly happens when your moving quickly and looking at 
 the surface beside you. It brings the presentation downs a bit but don't let it put you off. It 
 might just be my TV
  
  The bonus activities are the most fun part of Saints Row. There are three locations for each type 
 of side mission, each containing eight levels. From Drug Trafficking and and Snatch, (stealing whores 
 from pimps) to Insurance Fraud and Mayhem, all the activites are a blast to play. You need to do 
 some of them to eran the respect do to missions but I was virtually never told that I had to earn 
 more respect to do a mission because i had earned it anyway because I had so enjoyed the activities.
 
  
  Sound-wise, everything is great. The voice acting and the sound effects are perfect and the radio 
 stations are very good too. Just like GTA they are filled with good music and funny commercials 
 and talk shows.
  
  I was saying earlier that the game copies and improvises on the GTA formula. The things it takes 
 away are motorcycles and flyable vehicles. Only cars can be driven in Stilwater. Volition are probably 
 saving those things for the sequel, which has me excited already! It also doesn't have Viilante 
 mission or cab missions or anything like that. All the side missions are about illeagal activities, 
 wich makes sense. You can also fit unlimeted vehicles in your garage. The greatest improvement 
 it throws in is being able to save mid game. Mission progress can't be saved and reloading will 
 take you tho your nearest crib, not exactly where you saved but that would make it to easy. Allthough 
 it's certainky better than having to get to a safehouse just to save your game.
  
  Finally, I'm going to tell you about the multiplayer. The maps are well designed for their game 
 types wich are a whole lot of fun and when playing on ranked matches you can earn money for completing 
 matches, winning, not dying and getting killing streaks. You can use the money to buy clothes for 
 your multiplayer wardrobe. The two two player co-op missions are fun too and you can download an 
 additional mission called heist, my personal favourite. You have broken into a bank and the Swat 
 teams have you surrounded. You have to crack all four safes before you and your buddy run out of 
 lives. The catch is that you have to waith 40 seconds before the locations of the vaults are revealed 
 and suring that time you will have to fend of the numerous Swat members. One player must crack 
 the vault wich is done automaicaly and also takes 40 seconds and the other must defend them. This 
 could have been done as a multiplayer match allowing players to play as Swat officers but Heist 
 a great diversion just as a co-op mission.
  
  If your a sucker for free roaming action games, then Saints Row will fit your bill. There is plenty 
 of fun content to keep you on your toes and some neat new ideas that are rarely found in such games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endwill1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great game I don't care if it is a GTA knock-off it is way different than GTA it 
 is way more unrealistic GTA games are based on realism and Saints row is more cartoony.
  
  The general gameplay in Saints Row is great it is so funny and all the mini-games are fun and funny 
 too like the one where you have to throw yourself in front of traffic then you sue them and get 
 a bunch of money.
  
  The graphics are great the characters look awesome and you can go anywhere even inside with no 
 loading.
  
  The soundtrack is good too it has every genre of music you could think of from rap to reggae and 
 from rock to classical.
  
  I love this game but I do not recommend buying it because Saints Row 2 is coming out soon so you 
 should buy that. Instead of buying it you should rent it. You can complete the main story pretty 
 quick if you try and then you will be all caught up with the story and ready to start Saints Row 
 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amar93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  With the release of the Xbox 360, Grand Theft Auto fans had nothing to really play except the Xbox 
 version of San Andreas on their 360. As well as other GTA games made for Xbox. While there are 
 other games trying to copy the Grand Theft Auto formula, none really get close to the true GTA 
 formula like Saints Row does.
  
  You begin the game by creating a player. You can make him look however you want him to look, and 
 the options seem endless. After you are done creating your character, a scene happens. Saints Row 
 starts of with all of the gangs of Stilwater gunning each other down, and you're caught in the 
 middle of it. Just when a guy in yellow apparel is about to shoot you, Julius comes and saves you. 
 Julius is part of the 3rd Street Saints, a gang that is pretty much at the bottom of the list. 
 You have to help them retake the city of Stilwater and then it continues from there.
  
  Since Saints Row copies the Grand Theft Auto formula and has an open world for you to explore. 
 However, in Saints Row, you literally can go anywhere you want right at the start of the game, 
 but in Grand Theft Auto, you have to complete certain missions before you can unlock a part of 
 the map.
  
  You can't just simply go into a mission, complete it, and keep doing it until you beat the game. 
 The reason why is because Saints Row has this system of respect. You can only do certain missions 
 when you earn enough respect. Respect can be earned by doing the missions that you have enough 
 respect to do, but they are mostly acquired through side missions. The game forces you to do side 
 missions in order to complete the game, but they aren't like Grand Theft Auto's. In GTA, you can 
 rob a car and start a vigilante side mission where you just have to kill the criminals and you 
 do that for firefighter and so on. In Saints Row, you have Insurance Fraud, Mayhem, Racing, Demolition 
 Derby, and more. There are various activities in the game and they are all fun in their own way.
 
  
  The games customization features are great. When you earn enough money, you can purchase clothing 
 and make your character look much better than you did when you started. You can also "Pimp your 
 Ride" in this game. Although that's not what it's called, it's the same thing. You can go into 
 a shop and customize your own car and make it look however you want it to look. 
  
  If you are sick of constantly doing the activities to earn money, you can simply rob a store. When 
 you have a gun, you can hold it over the clerk until they reach the safe. Then they will give you 
 all the money and you can storm out the back door without any police notoriety. However, if you 
 fail to hold the gun in place, they will lower their arms and trigger the alarm, which usually 
 gives you a 2 star wanted level.
  
  Along with police notoriety, you can get gang notoriety. Shooting a gang member or bumping into 
 their cars can make the meter go up, and the higher the meter, the more gang members appear that 
 try to kill you.
  
  Saints Row looks good and plays good too. The game runs at 720p and higher, or so says the back 
 of the box. Either way, the game looks great. And the controls feel smooth. Shooting feels great 
 but can get difficult at times because of the fact that aiming can be frustrating, especially when 
 you have an all out war with another gang or the cops. But driving and shooting at the same time 
 has never felt so smooth.
  
  Saints Row has a 12 player multiplayer with some very fun multiplayer games. There's "Big Ass Chains" 
 in which you have to shoot other players and drop off a bunch necklaces at random points, there 
 is a death match, and a mission in which one team protects a pimp and the other tries to kill him.
 
  
  When you gain enough respect to do missions, the missions get a bit repetitive. Every mission has 
 you just running around shooting other gang members or doing objectives similar to ones you probably 
 have done before. There are glitches in the game which make it less fun to play, but most are only 
 minor ones.
  
  Overall, Saints Row is a great game that definitely deserves a chance. It's a fun pick-up-and-play 
 game that copies the GTA formula better, but doesn't quite get there. So it's like Grand Theft 
 Auto, but with multiplayer and several other features you wouldn't find in a copy of San Andreas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cii-Lence
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  Saints Row offers full character customization where as you can be yourself as you play the game. 
 You can create a character which reflects you in real life. The way you look, your race, the way 
 dress and your gender. There is alot of clothes to buy in many stores. You can change everything 
 you wear the way you like it, and anytime you feel like doing so. This feature makes players be 
 themselves and express themselves.
  
  Saints Row is the lime light of all action games because it has alot flash and blings. There are 
 alot of jewelry stores where you can buy necklaces, earrings, rings, and many more accessories. 
 It is very innovative of Saints Row to have a unique feature where you can change what metal you 
 like for your jewelry. Choosing from silver, gold, and platinum, a player may wish to wear what 
 suits him most. The game had it's surprises when it comes to jewelries. There are jewelries which 
 one may only obtain upon finishing missions.
  
  The shine of the game didn't end at just jewelries. It also offered glossy awesome cars. The cars 
 shine because you can fully customize your ride at Rim Jobs - shops which you can visit you anytime 
 in order to make your car as cool as possible. Don't think the game is costly because you spend 
 alot on customization. It's a really convenient part of the game in which you can just steal a 
 customized car. It just takes an observant eye and you can spot people around you driving really 
 hot cars and steal them. I really like the way this game included really rare cars, one can only 
 spot at certain time and place, and one can buy for a really expensive price. It added more thrill 
 to the game. The time and effort on saving cash to buy the most expensive car and the time consuming 
 search and wait for a rare car is so fulfilling when you get what you want in the end.
  
  You will be playing this game for really long fun-filled and action packed ours. It is because 
 it has alot of missions. The most action packed which had me at the edge of my bed is the snatch 
 activity. To be particular it is the snatch activity in the territory of the Los Carnales. The 
 enemies are so brutal. They come in a crew of 4 in fast low-rider car and blast you with sub michine 
 guns. It was explosions and dead bodies everywhere on levels 5 to 8. It got me craving for more!
 
  
  The test of patience really got me eating while playing or just holding my controller and listening 
 to the games radio stations' music. This test of patience is the Chop Shop activity. Saints Row 
 was really realistic on this part of the game. You will find a car depending on time, weather, 
 place, people and environment. It really got me thinking on where I may find that certain car needed. 
 The creators of this game really put their heart on to this game and they made it as realistic 
 as possible.
  
  This is the one thing you can only find in Saints Row: party system. Playing an action game single 
 player is now better than ever. You can call homies to ride with you. You and your crew will protect 
 each other in order to dominate and eliminate other gangs. There will only be a maximum of 3 crew 
 members you can bring along to ride with you but expect nearby allies to assist you when you are 
 attacked close to them. The funniest moments I had in the game was being able to ride with the 
 special crew. These are the ones you unlock when you finish certain mission. I had lots of laugh 
 with the special crew member you unlock when you finish the Escort Activity which is near you 1st 
 crib. I also think she is the most powerful crew you can ever ride with.
  
  One can play Saints Row with friends and family. I play it with my wife. What we love most is the 
 humor in this game. We have lots of laugh and good time playing this. We also love our modified 
 and customized most expensive sports car we bought at Foreign Power. This is the coolest car on 
 Saints Row. It's customized from the window tints to the NOS.
  
  Saints Row has so many features. Endless possibilities you can do. It has alot of great music you 
 can listen to on the radio or buy as an mp3 for your audio player. I enjoy this game and I am still 
 playing it until now. It's been 5 months since I had this game and playing it is still as fun as 
 when new because the many things one can do. I really love and enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jonny7892
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Obviously people are going to be sceptical about any free-roaming gangster game and it will, without 
 doubt, be given the 'GTA rip-off' tag by most but this game is better than GTA. There I said it 
 please don't burn me at the stake! First of all the graphics are good not great but they work. 
 The character creation is great also. But what really got me was the fun you can have with the 
 side missions. Insurance fraud is funny, drug trafficking is good to play but robbing shops has 
 to be the best. Running in, holding up the shop, taking everything out the safe, shooting the till 
 for those last few dollars and then making a runner never gets old in my mind. Finally the last 
 point I'd like to make is that the dialogue is actually funny. Since your character is mute (well, 
 mostly) that may seem stupid but when one of your 'homies' says 'something like 'I like a guy who 
 doesn't interupt', instead of pretending that your charcters inability to talk unless he has just 
 blown one of the other three gang leaders to smithereens, it is humurous. And when he does talk, 
 all three lines, these are amusing as well. All in all I like Saints Row alot and I people should 
 get over the line of thought that 'Oh, it doesnt matter that GTA: SA/VC had terrible glitchy graphics 
 and boring gameplay because it's GTA'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandyman94
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  Saints row is absolutely brilliant you can rob shops have gang wars steal prostitutes of other 
 pimps there are hundreds of missions and side missions, the online mode is also great you get to 
 creat your own gang and have gang wars representin your gang you can also join other players gandgs. 
 There are six online modes gangsta brawl, team gangsta brawl, big ass chains, team big ass chains, 
 protect the pimp and blinged out ride or maybe its pimped out ride im not so sure? There are also 
 co-op games online but you cant play the story mode in co-op. So if your thinking about getting 
 this game its worth it. Also you can get in cars online and the only vehicle type in the game is 
 cars but in saints row 2 they are going to add more vehicles to the game. You can also customize 
 your character by picking his skin colour face shape muscle, fat and can also buy new clothes from 
 various stores in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Saint's Row is a blatant copy of the Grand Theft Auto series. However, unlike 
 Just Cause, True Crime, and The Getaway, Saints Row not only copies what the GTA series has done 
 right but also adds some unique gameplay elements that will be required in future sandbox games 
 to come.
  
  Saint's Row has a classic gang storyline. You start as a bum on the streets but you'll soon become 
 a member of the Third Street Saints, a small gang in a small area of Stilwater. After joining the 
 gang, you'll have to clean the city of rival gangs; the Los Carnales, the Vice Kings, and the West 
 Side Rollerz. Each gang has plenty of missions that'll eventually lead you to a confrontation with 
 the gang leader. I was very satisfied with how the games story played out. It felt like a true 
 Grand Theft Auto game which in my eyes is no problem at all. The game also provides plenty of twists 
 and leads up to an ending you may or may not like.
  
  The game is a step up on graphics from the previous generation of gaming but could be obviously 
 improved upon. When you compare it to GTA IV, you can tell that Saints Row 2 has a lot of work 
 to do to compare. I rarely, if ever, experienced glitches or framerate problems with the game. 
 
  
  One of the problems that I had with the game was the music. Most GTA games are known for its excellent 
 music. Saints Row has some nice music that includes both modern and classical music. Although there 
 is definite room for improvement, Saints Row didnt fail in the music department. Saint's Row also 
 has a stellar lineup of classic songs including Chopin and Beethoven. I enjoyed the radio ads and 
 DJs but again it felt like it was right out of the GTA neighbourhood. The sound in the game is 
 also good. Crashes, guns, and other noises are notably good. Another plus is the stellar cast. 
 Most of the games characters have great voices thanks to stars like Michael Clark Duncan. 
  
  What Saint's Row copies in other things, makes up for it in gameplay. Most GTA games have had 
 problems with aiming. Saint's Row makes aiming easy and fun. You have a pointer on the screen and 
 you just move it to where you want to shoot and fire the trigger. It may not seem good but it works 
 very well and I never had a personal problem with it. This method makes looking behind you and 
 shooting a breeze. 
  
  The other thing that I loved about Saint's Row was the driving elements of the game. I had previously 
 played Crackdown where I felt the driving was broken. Saint's Row does a complete opposite and 
 makes the driving experience great. 
  
  Saint's Row will also keep you busy with all these sidequests you can do. Driving while your passenger 
 makes drug deals, collecting cars, getting hit by cars for money (insurance fraud) , taking out 
 targets, and demolition derby events are all different sidequests you can participate in. These 
 events add to the lifespan of the game.
  
  Unfortunately, there are no airplanes, helicopters, motorcycles, or boats you can drive but it 
 doesn't take away too much from the experience. Airplanes and boats usually bore me but helicopters 
 and motorcycles are fun to drive. Saint's Row 2 has confirmed all 4 of these vehicles.
  
  The online experience gets a big old meh from me. The co-op is just two missions that take 5 minutes 
 or so each. They are nothing worthwhile but provide some replay value to the game. Besides co-op 
 there are multiple online modes you can play such as Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Protect tha Pimp, 
 Blinged out Ride, and more. Even though these modes may not be the best its a good start for taking 
 a sandbox game online. This game came out before Crackdown but hopefully Saint's Row 2 will make 
 the online experience better.
  
  As you can see, I've compared Saint's Row a lot to Grand Theft Auto. In my opinion, this game could 
 be called: Grand Theft Auto - Saint's Row. It's a perfect addition to the sandbox genre and a perfect 
 addition to your collection if you are a fan or want to try a sandbox game. Overall, Saint's Row 
 its a great game with some problems that should be ironed out for the sequel, Saint's Row 2.
  
  In my eyes, Saint's Row gets a solid 8.8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaponmaster01
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I never found any of the GTA series to as engaging as THQ's Saint's Row. To say that 
 their product is a complete copycat is pretty harsh. Yes, you have the open world urban city and 
 the guns and the crime, but that sort of thing has become more of a common ground for developers 
 and can be seen in video games like Hulk Ultimate destruction and even in upcoming games like Mercenaries: 
 World in Flames. If anything we could say GTA copycats Ocarina of Time in accordance to the invention 
 of Open-world game-play.
  
  Needless to say, every game has their own formula. And Saint's Row certainly has it's own. The 
 ability to customize your own character is a great addition in its own right, and the complexity 
 is worthy of Mass Effect. (Yes, I purchased this game pretty late) . Though their are arguable flaws 
 in Saint's Row, it certainly doesn't refrain from the replay value, which is as any open world 
 game should be, very high. You go through this game, joining Saint's Row, a gang group with a mission 
 to take back the city, territory after territory. You begin at a pretty rundown house, but end 
 up getting places later in the game as you complete the story. The activities are fun and addicting, 
 and I think THQ did a good job kind of forcing the player to have a go at them in order to earn 
 enough respect to do a mission. My most favorite thing about the game is the customizing, which 
 brings in a lot of options on the appearance of not only your character, but also your vehicles. 
 And although "special" cars earned throughout gameplay can't be customized. That doesn't mean you 
 can't find and steal the same one that gives you the ability to. 
  
  All in all this is a crisp and fun game. Even people who are Die Hard GTA fans, can't deny this 
 game has spark and has it's own style. And now with the sequel on the way. I think Saint's Row 
 2 may have more spunk than GTA4, especially with THQ boasting cooperative play. The race is on, 
 but in the mean time, I give Saints Row a solid 9.0.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Replay Value: 9
  Difficulty: 8
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_ofoblivion
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 10, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  Easily The best THQ title to Date!
  The gameplay of this game is endless and you're never unsatisfied. The customisation options are 
 simply a next-gen version of GTA but this isn't that much like the GTA games. It has it's pros and 
 cons when compared with the game that impacted all other genres. I think this game is unappreciated 
 because I have friends who think that GTA is still better than this game, in my opinion this is 
 a more raw version of GTA with the ability to be old-school but bring something new to it. The customisation 
 is plentiful, with the choice of race, face, clothes and what guns you roll with. You can make anything 
 from a freak with a blue afro to a hardcore killer with a purple fluffy coat and a hat with a feather 
 in it. I think the idea THQ had was to have the old-school instant classic gameplay without going 
 overboard.
  The graphics are amazing in the way the characters don't stick out too much in front of the lifelike 
 environments you'll come across. Weather you're dealing cocaine or assassinating people for cash 
 you never get bored with the graphics.
  The more for your money element is here too, you'll never get bored roaming round shooting down 
 anyone and everyone.
  The only criticism i would d give this game is the lack of good voice acting ( especially as your 
 character who says 1 line per quarter of the game) But i believe all the cons this game does have 
 will be converted into a positive feature with the releasing of the sequel which I'm looking forward 
 to.
  Lordo Out!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Like GTA serie? This game will knock you down! This is an amazing free roaming game, tons of stuff 
 to do in a huge word. The humor is good, the story amazing. Very good shooting sytem, driving, 
 and controls, there are some bugs in Saints Row though. Like the "invisible road" that many people 
 mencion, (I didn't saw it) and some unfinished eges. But it's awsome and fun! To short, but lets 
 hope Saints Row 2 will have over 100 missions!!!!!!!!! HELL YEAH! Please I wanna very long game 
 like GTA: 100 or 200 mission will be better! PLEASE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setonj18
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  I hate how everyone thinks this game is a ripoff of GTA! The games are actually different. In this 
 game you are recruited into a gang and you battle other gangs. The side missions are really creative 
 and fun as are the real missions. You can also design your character to your liking and pimp out 
 cars. Although the online kind of sucks, when it's working it really isn't that bad. The graphics 
 aren't the greatest but they're way better than the past GTAs, but they won't be better than GTA 
 4. The downsides to this game is that they're no planes, helicopters, boats, or motorcycles, but 
 you'll get over it. And their are some bad glitches but nothing that will ruin your experience 
 with the game. Another funny thing about this game is the euphoria technology. Whenever you hit 
 somebody with a car instead of going straight up like they do in GTA 4 they will be like ragdolls 
 and look boneless. Its hilarious. Saint's Row is a must buy for the 360!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: septa_r1dah
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:14 am PT
Review:  Had a blast with this game when I first purchased the 360. At that point all it took was some good 
 graphics and the GTA style gameplay and I was having fun for hours at a time. It is hilarious to 
 gun people down in this game, the rag doll style animation works pretty well here, you will never 
 see an enemy's limbs go completely wacky and start flailing all over the place. Shooting people 
 through the windshield is a nice added gameplay feature as well. I think GTA 4 will have to take 
 some pointers from this game, although there are only a few innovations here they cannot be ignored 
 when making the next installment into this genre. Certain gameplay aspects are just weak and hurt 
 the immersion into the gameworld you might otherwise feel. For instance, when you go to your garage 
 you can place unlimited cars inside, and then select them from a menu. I prefer the garage that 
 has a limited number of spaces so you have to choose which cars you actually want to hold onto. 
 Also, other subtle animations that made GTA so great to watch are absent, like the fact that you 
 will just pop out, or into a car rather than see and exit/entry animation. But with all this being 
 said there is fun to be had here, and at this date and time you should be able to get this game 
 for a steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XNCgamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a very good game that at firsts looks a little like Grand Theft Auto. Although they 
 look the same they are different in many ways and and it has great gameplay and an especially good 
 multiplayer.
  
  There has yet to be a GTA released for the Xbox 360, and thus Saints Row was a choice for many 
 GTA fans. The graphics for the game look very sharp and they look much smoother than the gameplay 
 of other games of this sort. Cars, buildings, and people are very detailed and you can customize 
 both your car (s) and your own appearance. Animations your character performs such as fighting and 
 falling or getting hit look very realistic. One of the mini-games, insurance fraud, causes you 
 to hurt your character in as many ways possible, and the animations really show during it.
  
  The story line of the game is pretty interesting and it keeps you wanting to finish mission 
 aft mission. Personally I don't think the story is as good as GTA's, but none the less it is good. 
 There are many things possible to do, such as mini-games, taking over territories, and just plain 
 killing people.
  
  Saints Row's multiplayer is a unique system that is fun to play. You can either play alone in games 
 such Protect Tha Pimp and a Team Brawl mode, or you and your friends can create your own gang online 
 and instantly be matched up with other gangs for a more serious battle. Protect Tha Pimp is a fun 
 game in which, one person on your team is the "Pimp" who can only smack, and the rest of you have 
 guns and try to guide that player to the finish. You do all this while you cross your enemy, who 
 is in turn trying to kill the "Pimp." Although the "Pimp" can only smack, the hits are very powerful 
 and one slap will kill you. Money can be earned while playing online and this money is used to 
 customize the way your character looks. Your stats are also taken record of for you to see whenever 
 you want.
  
  Although Saints Row does not match the exceeding gameplay of the GTA series, it is still a very 
 fun game with good graphics and an excellent multiplayer. Any fan of shooting games or fans of 
 GTA should get this game, but should be aware that it will never live up to GTA.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: colts99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm the 1001 reviewer...
  one of the best games for the xbox 360 so far.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are pretty good not great as it is first generation xbox 360 game.
  The water looks 
 lifelike and glistens while showing the reflection of the buildings. Story
  Hmmm, story is crap IMO.
  Nothing much to it, the other gangs are being mean you have to kill 
 them, thats pretty much it.
  
  Sound
  Good, the stations have good music I suppose.
  
  Gameplay
  I really like that you can cope without auto aim. In gta you need to autoaim.
 
  I like that you can aim wherever you want all the time and aim all around the car while doing 
 a drive bye. Driving isnt that fun though and it can be annoying. Throwing grandes and firing bazooka 
 things at cars and people is one of the games best qualities. No flying vehicles or water vehicles. 
 Overall gameplay is great. the best part of the game
  
  Overall good GTA clone, probly the best GTA clone
  Nuff said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herow_93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Everyone ones Saying this is just GTA
  it is
  But that's not a bad thing
  I'd make this more of a homage to GTA than a rip off
  It's also unique in tasks outside the main 
 mission, such as escorts and snatch activities. It's really fun and makes you work harder
  in GTA, you just can go to a door and bang, your in the middle of a mission, in this, you have 
 to do tasks to get respect to do other activities which is a really clever idear. Weapons are good 
 and the stores are good, clothing stores are also necessery because if you don't dress the part, 
 you don't get extra respect for the jobs you do, so, it takes longer. 
  You can hijak vehicles, take people out for a scorned person or just go on a rampage.
  I loved 
 this game and will be getting the sequal
  from the looks of it, they've improved it alot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Ray969
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Saints row has been claimed as a GTA knock off, maybe so maybe not, graphically the characters 
 were put together very well, car customization is great, the different paint types all add the 
 visual effect you want for your car. the only lacking parts are the multiplayer and the mission 
 depth. but overall a very good game with great playability. Overall it seems as though the multiplayer 
 was thrown in as a secondary option. Pimp slapping other players or team mates is always fun, and 
 blinged out rides has some flash, but aside from that the multiplayer is very lacking and should 
 be played only out of extreme boredom, i would say buy it, but that is also personal opinion if 
 you dont like this kind of game i would say still rent it. Overall it is a good game, and the fact 
 that you dont completely lose a car when it blows up is a very nice touch, great game guns and 
 car customization along with the RPG factors of the character customization and the ability to 
 commit robberies is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amozarte
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  For the most part, it's a decent game. There's definitely some quality gameplay inside this box. 
 I especially enjoy the highly customisable character appearance.
  
  A few gameplay innovations address some of the complaints GTA received, and there were also some 
 interesting new mingames but I didn't find anything truly revolutionary to warrant all the hype 
 this game received.
  
  In fact, for every innovation that added to this game there seemed to be a glitch that detracted. 
 My favourite, the "Where did my car go?" glitch, causes your vehicle to disappear for no apparent 
 reason. When this happens, your character comes to an abrupt halt, stuck in mid air. I could find 
 no way to begin moving again or exit the "missing" vehicle. This particular glitch repeated itself 
 every time I attempted one particular mission, rendering the game completely unplayable from that 
 point forward.
  
  Even though there were some fun minigames, I found the "Respect" system caused them to become quite 
 repetitive. In order to progress with the story you need "respect". In order to get respect, you 
 must complete side job after side job ad infinitum. While fun the first few times, they get old 
 fast. Good concept, poor execution.
  
  Still, for its faults there are enough enjoyable qualities to make this game worth playing- just 
 not enough to live up to the hype.
  
  Pros:
  -Beautiful scenery
  -Highly customisable character
  -Celebrity voice overs
  
  Cons:
  -Glitches/bugs
  -Rep... rep... repetitive
 
  -Too much distance/driving between every point A and point B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybomb3691
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  this game might at first of seemed like gta but it is actually a game all on its own because thier 
 is so many things that you are able to do diffrently in this game such as being able call in people 
 for help and the fact you are in a gang not the mob really sets that apart. not to mention the 
 weapon choice you have to chose what weapons you can use. that alone is some of the reason why 
 i play this game. so when it comes down to it this game is no copy cat this game is pretty well 
 an original and worth every penny i spent on it at the game store. also with all of the cars you 
 are able to get the free roam that you have wihich gives you the chance to go anywhere in the city 
 is also some of the things that makes this game the best that i have seen. Maybe it is also the 
 fact that at the begining of the game you are allowed to custimize your charcter how ever you want 
 to which has to be one of the coolest things that i know of in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regulator0013
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Though many may be quick to call this a GTA Clone, and it could indeed be considered that. Saints 
 Row takes the sandbox style of gameplay of GTA and makes it a little bit deeper. There is more 
 variety in missions, and you get more than just financial reward for completing side missions. 
 Overall, this is a solid game and a heck of a lot of fun to play.
  
  The game starts with a very detailed character creation mode which is limited only by your imagination. 
 I was able to design a character that looked just like me, and it's alot of fun to "see yourself" 
 in the game. 
  
  The story revolves around the Saints, a street gang who wishes to rise to power. You are the new 
 recruit and you get to go about doing missions to help your gang achieve it's goal. The story is 
 trite and all too common, but it is the gameplay that gets you going and keeps you motivated. That 
 and having yourself on the screen just really enriches the experience.
  
  The control is spot on, easy to learn, and very comfortable. Rather than the clunky GTA controls, 
 Saints Row lets you aim and fire wherever you are pointed. The little cursor that lines up on your 
 field of sight is also the stick you use to move. This is great, it allows you to run and shoot 
 almost flawlessly in any direction. Even better, this is the same scheme for when you are driving 
 a car. The handling varies for different cars, but it is smoother and more comfortable than GTA. 
 Selecting weapons via a wheel is alright, though changing out weapons can be a bit of a pain.
 
  
  The graphics are amazing, the city you are in is highly detailed and varied. Areas range from upper 
 class neighborhoods, slums, and business districts each of which has it's own unique flair. By 
 driving around a large and diverse city, you really don't get time to be bored. Character animations 
 are rich and detailed, the character customization option is amazing and gives countless options-it's 
 almost too detailed. 
  
  Another great option about the game is car customization, as with the character customization it's 
 incredibly detailed and you can design some fine looking rides. This ties into the system used 
 to store your vehicles-you have an endless garage, it keeps as many cars as you want. Unrealistic, 
 but very helpful.
  
  The game isn't all that hard, but can get a little tricky at parts, nothing that would make the 
 game unplayable. It's on the easy side, but not so easy it's a walk in the park. You will be challenged 
 at times, though that challenge is inconsitent at times. The only other gripe is the soundtrack 
 which is pretty weak, GTA blows Saints Row out of the water with the quality soundtrack, fortunately 
 with Xbox 360, you can make your own.
  
  Overall this is how sandbox GTA style games should be done. All of the improvements that GTA needed, 
 Saints Row did. It is a very fun and deep game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triebbs1322
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  i personally am afraid for thq because they are very liable to be sued for copyright infringement. 
 this game is somewhat fun however and it is a nice taste before grand theft auto 4. this game does 
 some really good things like the character customization is very robust and the story is decent 
 enough to warrent finishing the game. (the way you preform armed robberys skys over the way you 
 did it in vice city) . the games missions however are easily forgettable and very repetitive with 
 the exception of a very few all the missions are drive here, kill them all, and drive home and 
 that gets old pretty quick your custom character has 3 or 4 lines in the whole game and the graphics 
 which are better than gta's but for the xbox 360 are not very good. in the end there is a good 
 amount of fun to be had in stillwater before we get to play in liberty city again.
  
  GRAPHICS= 6
  
  SOUND= 7
  
  STORY=8
  
  MULTIPLAYER= 3
  
  GAMEPLAY= 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Im wrting this report on saintsrow people say its like GTA it sort of is and not yeah u go around 
 killing poeple for fun but in saintsrow u can do all sorts of jobs like hitman or racing for money 
 and theres lot of cool stuff u can ulock like a pimp out fit or even custamize your own charecter 
 hey well if u like that kind of stuff then GTA and saintsrow are the games u should have on ur 
 gamesystem its very fun to put a pipe bomb in a windshield while someones driving or snipe them 
 like crazy u can even take a train then again its like GTA-sanandreas cause u have to take over 
 teritorie for the g@ng u have to work with its still very fun well that was my report on saintsrow 
 PS: Im waiting for the 2nd one to come out on the market it will probably just as good. well i need 
 like 33 more charecters so well if u have any questions just look for my other reviews and send 
 me a message 
  Vergil2016 OUT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarPrime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Its been a long time since I played this Saints Row but I was to start by saying I loved this game. 
 It took a much brighter approach to the dark grim street life Sim GTA style game. It never took 
 itself too seriously, tossing out all the notions that that it was 'Real'. I will say if you are 
 a hardcore GTA fan you will most likely not like this game as it is a bit more lite hearted and 
 a lot more tongue in cheek.
  
  Character creation was a bit ridiculous, but being able to choose the size of your nostrils and 
 the length of your ear hair seems to be the current trend in character creation these days.
  
  You get jumped into the gang who saves you from a gun fight and are immediately send out on 
 missions to get your self a gun, gather us some hookers, and start taking out enemy gang members 
 who have control of Saints Row.
  
  The enemy gangs are caricatures of a suburban ideal of gangs, a bit romanticized in this clean 
 cartoony city that is all beautiful people and bullets. Kinda like what you might see if Aaron 
 Spelling (the guy who made 90210) made a show about gangs. You slowly start getting missions to 
 start taking back some territory from the three gangs that control the city.
  
  One of the really cool things about this game is the Turf Wars. Just because you take over a neighborhood, 
 don't think your enemies are going to sit back and just let you run over their territory. They 
 will raise some men and try taking areas back, and if you don't show up in that area to lend a 
 hand you might loose it, and the money you get by controlling that area.
  
  Collecting cars is tons of fun! There are hundreds to have and many super special cars that you 
 can only get by doing certain missions. You can also take your cars to the garage and modify them, 
 it is awesome and very well done. My only complaint is that when you have a lot of cars in your 
 garage, it gets hard to cycle through them and difficult to find the specific one you want.
  
  If you want explosions few games have explosions that are half as much fun as Saints Row. I 
 have spend hours just running around blowing up cars and seeing how high I could get them to fly 
 into the air. And that was before I got my hands on a rocket launcher.
  
  There are tons of missions to do, and some add fairly new and unique mini games. Like insurance 
 fraud has you running around trying to deliberately get hit by cars so you can collect on the injury 
 insurance. By the time you are close to the end of the game they get a bit old and it would have 
 been nice to have a few more, but they were still a lot of fun.
  
  My biggest grip was the end of the game. Not to give anything away, but it felt like they intended 
 to do a sequel to answer some loose ends. It had been a long time since I heard any news of a Saints 
 Row 2, but now it looks like the story will be resolved some time in 2008.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: minghui94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  the good - nice graphic ; weapon sound nice ; lots of nice thing to do in the map ; people do not 
 have bones , this make the game look funny ; you can use a cell phone ; nice explosion
  
  The bad - people who have played GTA san Andreas before may find this game somehow similar ; lots 
 of glitches
  
  
  
  Saints Row is a game which look a bit similar to the famous Grand Theft Auto , but there are also 
 some thing that are not found in GTA .
  
  
  One feature is that you can use a cell phone . the cell phone can be use to call for your homies 
 , call for help , fast food , taxi service and many more . it can also be use to dial cheat code 
 , but you will not be able to earn achievement when cheats is being activated . 
  
  The graphic .... er...... not bad , better than GTA
  
  
  The people in this game ... boneless 
 . why ? because when they are being shoot at or get bump by a car , their limps just swing , as 
 if they got no bone , this make the game somehow funny .
  
  
  Unlike GTA , the explosion is nicer , in GTA , the explosion is just like fire .
  
  
  This 
 game have lots of glitches , do not expect game to have no glitches , every game have glitch , 
 but it won't happen often.
  
  This is a nice game that will constantly kill your time , so it is worth buying it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonRedfield
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row looks likes a GTA clone which in a way it is. The thing that sets itself apart is the 
 customization and the amount of missions and side missions. The story has you joining the SAINTS 
 and doing various missions for them. Throughout the game there will be twists and turns with the 
 story which is actually rather engaging. The combat is a major improvement over GTA; though the 
 aiming is somewhat difficult. 
  
  My only complaint is that whenever you want to do a mission that pertains to the main story you 
 have to do side missions to up your respect; it can somewhat slow down the pace if you really wanted 
 to complete the main story line for the game. Some other issues are driving while shooting which 
 can be a problem. If not frustrating. 
  
  The audio for the game is fantastic the radio programs hilarious and the dialogue on the escort 
 missions downright outrageous. The visuals are great too though there are some pop up issues like 
 a car popping up or disappearing in front of you. 
  
  The acting is great and there are a few well known actors in this one. The dialogue is funny and 
 doesn't sound forced. 
  
  Saints Row offers tons of things to do after the main story is finished and there is always something 
 to do. I guarantee that after playing this game you'll eagerly await Saints Row 2.
  
  NOTE: The game has online features that I have not tried but there are multiplayer options on Xbox 
 Live.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Targrathek
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  This is my Game Review for Saints Row. WOW, That's all I really have to say about this game, but 
 I have to say more in order to post this review. lol. A lot of people said that this game was a 
 knock off of the GTA series, well in my opinion no it wasn't. This game blew GTA way out of the 
 water, the only GTA game that could be better than Saints Row would be GTA 4. The only problem 
 I had with this game was that there was no Motorcycles or Planes, other than that it was a great 
 game. The many different types of Gangs that your character fought against were really interesting. 
 Also the many types of Cars that your character got where really cool as well, plus you could customize 
 them and make them look like any type car you wanted. Of course you could do that in the GTA series 
 as well, I just think in Saints Row it was better. So I say Saints Row fully deserves its rating 
 of 10 out of 10. if you own and Xbox 360 and you don't own this game, BUY IT. lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamecubedave000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Yes this game works in every way its made.
  
  First off in the begining of the game you can customize your character in a variety of ways and 
 make "him" look the way you want ( sorry ladies no girls allowed :P ) . Then you set off to become 
 a part of a gang called the 3rd street saints.
  
  In the gang you fight 3 other gangs for control of different territorys ( remind you of something?) . 
 Taking over territorys gives you more respect and more money the closer to beating the game, oh 
 wait that was a lie. There are so many mini games which are required to beat to acually "beat" 
 the game. Some of these games are fun and some are not.
  
  There are lots of cars to drive and even customize. The city is fairly big and people roam the 
 streets yelling vulger things at you. Guns control well and the sniper is my favorite little toy 
 because there is no bullet lag and usually kills in 1 hit. 
  
  When you get further in the game you can decide to be accompanyed by fellow gang members ( which 
 help sometimes) .
  
  Well there is nothing else to say about this game. You cant argue with the price and the gameplay 
 so if you dont have this one.. get it! now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukesRUs
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:43 am PT
Review:  saints row is an unbelievably good game... even though it may be a GTA rip-off its a really good 
 GTA rip-off probably the best rip-off the only fault the game really has is the ending did kinda 
 suck pretty bad.... but the story continues in the second one plus all the fun extra's in the game 
 make up for the crappy ending.... it might not be GTA but its definately a good rip-off of GTA. 
 i definately reccomend this game to anyone who is a fan of the GTA series or even if your not..... i 
 still reccomend this game..... the gfx are awsome the gameplay is great the storylines are cool 
 and the side challenges keep you entertained for hours on end. playing saints row online.... can 
 be pretty fun but i didnt play it for long as it wasnt as good as i was hoping but some might enjoy 
 it more than i did. plus the game features some famouse actors lending there voice tallents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 1:18 am PT
Review:  + Nice chunky, colourful graphics 
  + Great voice acting & soundtrack 
  + Well built city & imaginative missions 
  + Solid gunplay 
  + Fun 
  
  - Embarasing script 
 
  - Repetative side missions 
  - Respect bar 
  - Horrid 'gangsta' theme 
  
  This game pleasently surprised me. I was expecting it to be very average at best. But it wasnt, 
 it was actualy really good fun & is easily the best GTA clone ive ever played. 
  
  The graphics are nice, chunky & solid with a great cartoony look to them. Although it does have 
 horrid screen tear & sure it has the odd graphical glitch where the textures suddenly dissapear 
 for a few seconds but this is no worse than the GTA on PS2 & doesnt ruin the gameplay. The city 
 is well built & is easy to get around. Its also easy to remember your way around with every inch 
 of it being distinctive & well thought out. 
  
  Its a great little playground too. Just like GTA that it clones so well it can create hours of 
 amusment just messing around in the world. 
  
  Some of the missions are also a lot of fun & imaginative. I wont spoil any but some have you laughing 
 out loud. The gunplay is also of a very high standard. It caters to a cover style & all out blasting. 
 & the twin stick control to aiming is great, making it a lot less frustrating than GTA ever was. 
 
  
  The soundtrack is fantastic. I was expecting a generic, mindless hip-hop featuring only 50 Cent. 
 But in its place I got a great collection of tracks by fantastic artists such as MF Doom, Quasimoto, 
 Common, Masta Killa, Roots, Little Brother etc. Its without a doubt the best Hip-hop trackilisting 
 ever to grace a game. All the other radio stations seem of high quality too but im not well versed 
 in the world of Rock etc. so cont really comment on those. 
  
  The soundtrack also extends to the voice-acting. This is of a surprisingly high quality too. All 
 believeable & do a good job of sucking you into the world. 
  
  Which leads me onto the problems. Although the voice acting is superb, its also so smut, swearing 
 & gangster filled its embarasing. This is not a game you can play with anyone else in the room, 
 its that bad. However it does fit with the game world & story as its so 'gangsta' focused & if 
 your 12 years old (naughty, naughty playing an 18 rated game) you'll love it. But for us 18+ gamers 
 (that its meant to be aimed at) its will make you blush. 
  
  Which leads me onto the biggest problem. This gangster theme extends to the 'optional' side missions. 
 Optional not being quite the right word though. Before you can progress through the main story 
 it forces you to fill a 'respect bar' *groan*. The game forces you to do these side missions to 
 get enough respect to carry on with the main game. This wouldnt be too bad except for theres only 
 a handful of different missions & being forced to repeat them over & over again as they gradualy 
 get harder is not fun at all. 
  
  But aside from these problems its great fun & easily the best GTA clone out there. Also if you 
 like 'gangsta' stories or are a pre-pubescent teen add a point to the score. You'll gain even more 
 enjoyment from it than I did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvwvx
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is another game in a long line of Grand Theft Auto clones. The do-anything, go-anywhere 
 formula is a fun one, but one that has been done to death, if you ask me. A few games have been 
 able to do it well (Godfather: Blackhand Edition comes to mind) , but few actually do it as well 
 as Saint's Row.
  
  Let me start by saying that GTA: Vice City is one of my favorite games of all time. This game isn't 
 as good as Vice City, in my opinion, but it comes really close.
  
  Let's start with the most important factor in a game: gameplay. Do the controls work? The camera 
 angle? Is it fun? Is there a good story? 
  
  The controls work well. Walking around and shooting is easier than ever thanks to the clever aiming 
 system in the game. No matter which way you are facing, you can shoot in any direction. If you're 
 walking one way, and the reticule is to your back, you shoot behind your back. It makes for fluid 
 shooting, and really helps the animation.
  
  Driving around and shooting is a different matter altogether. It's a lot less intuitive and actually 
 sometimes borders on the frustrating. Again, you aim where you shoot. You can shoot in any direction, 
 but having such control over where the bullets go can mean you miss a lot. A different shooting 
 system while in the car would have been a good idea.
  
  The game has a story. It isn't a particularly great story, but it makes sense and stays true to 
 the setting. The ending is actually pretty good. I didn't see it coming. What's cool is that as 
 you complete missions, the city's citizens change. Say you kill a rival gang leader. Well, the 
 radio will have a story on that. It really adds to the immersion factor. 
  
  As far as being fun, to me, few games are as fun as this one. There is SO much to do. The main 
 missions are great, but you can participate in tons of side missions. Chop shop activities, insurance 
 fraud, robbing stores, even becoming a hitman. On top of that there are dozens of cars, and each 
 of them are customizable. It's one of the most robust car customization systems I've played on 
 any game, even more robust than some racing games.
  
  As for the graphics, for the most part, the game looks really good. Crisp and detailed textures. 
 Your clothes look pretty good. The cars look fantastic. Each weapon is distinct. Explosions almost 
 "feel" hot. 
  
  The Havok physics engine is great. If you hit a pedestrian, they'll go flying, arms and legs flopping 
 to and fro. It's really satisfying. Explosions send them flying too. And don't worry, if you get 
 blown up or hit, you'll go flying as well.
  
  The only problem is that a lot of times, parts of the game will disappear. I mean, you'll be driving 
 down the interstate and the road will disappear, literally. You're driving on nothing. Then, the 
 road pops back on the screen, and you go on about your business. Also, cars spawn in and out randomly. 
 You'll be chasing a car that you're missing from your collection, and it will literally vanish 
 right in front of your eyes. Or, a cop car will spawn right in front of you, you'll hit it, and 
 suddenly you have the police after you.
  
  There's also notable dips in the FPS area. In certain cases, it seems you're watching a slideshow 
 instead of a video game. It's pretty bad. 
  
  Other than that, the visuals are fine.
  
  On the audio side of things, it's top notch. The radio stations aren't as good as in Vice City, 
 but they are good anyways. My personal favorite is the easy-listening station. It's very original 
 and the songs are very catchy. Loved it. The talk radio station is pretty hilarious too.
  
  The voice acting is top notch. Some pretty big names went into it. Overall, a well-made game in 
 the audio department.
  
  In conclusion, other than a few visual setbacks (which I'm sure could have been fixed with a little 
 more development time) , the game is amazing. Fans of the GTA series who are weary of GTA clones 
 don't need to worry about this game not living up to the original. It does. I can't wait for Saint's 
 Row 2. Get this game!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zach68486
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row, simply put, is a free-roaming sandbox-style game set in the large and crime-ridden 
 city of Stilwater. In Saints Row, your basic mission is to take out all of the other gangs in the 
 city, and help your gang, The Third Street Saints, rise to the top of the food chain. You can take 
 the story missions totally at your own pace, do many side missions to earn respect and unlock new 
 things, and just basically run around the city causing havoc and destruction.
  
  The story is simple enough. At the beginning of the game, your character is a nobody. Then, your 
 character witnesses a small-scale gang battle between the four main gangs in the city, and gets 
 caught in the crossfire. He is saved from an almost certain death by Julius Little, the leader 
 of the Third Street Saints gang. Afterwards, your character joins this gang and later becomes a 
 key player in the gang.
  
  Let me get one thing out of the way. This game, is VERY similar to Grand Theft Auto. Some people 
 call it a rip-off or GTA clone, but I simply think that Saints Row uses a unique story and new 
 features, and does it better then GTA previously did. It sort of raises the bar, in my opinion.
 
  
  Saints Row gives you an almost limitless amount of freedom. If you see a car, you can get it in 
 and drive it. If you see a store, you can rob it. If you see a pedestrian, you can kill/hurt them. 
 You can do nearly anything in this game. With a massive amount of vehicles at your disposal, you 
 can speed around the city in a plethora of different cars. Almost all of these cars can be modified 
 and customized by going to certain places.
  
  The side missions are straight forward enough. You have several different missions at your disposal 
 to earn money and respect. Missions such as street racing, assassinations, mindless destruction, 
 pimping and drug trafficking. All of these missions are unique and equally fun, but not particularly 
 rewarding.
  
  Your character in the game can be fully customized, except for gender. You can change race, appearance, 
 skin pigmentation, clothing, jewelry, piercings, tattoos, hairstyles, hair color, eye color and 
 almost everything else. The customization options for this game are amazing, for both vehicles 
 and your character.
  
  The weapons, however, could have been more varied. There are only a handful of weapons for you 
 to use. 
  
  The AI in the game is okay. Not the best I've ever seen, but not bad either. Police officers will 
 sometimes stand in plain range of you, ready to be shot and killed. Pedestrians will flee from 
 you when you discharge weapons or try to run over them with a vehicle, and police will take cover 
 behind their squad cars when you fire at them, and etc...
  
  The utilization of ragdoll physics in this game really makes it alot more fun. Running over people 
 is alot more satisfying due to the physics.
  
  The only considerable downfall of this game is the fact that there are no flyable aircraft, no 
 useable boats, and no extremely interesting vehicles.
  
  Although the game isn't perfect, and has numerous flaws, it is still a very unique and fun gaming 
 experience that I would highly recommend to anyone, especially those who have enjoyed the Grand 
 Theft Auto series of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun!!!!!!!!!! This game is like GTA but in my opinion 
 its better. You if i were you buy it dont rent it. The multiplayer is fun such as (Protect the 
 Pimp) . Where each team was a pimp and you got to protect yours, and kill the other teams. Story 
 mode is really fun!!!! The game is also realy fun beacause you can hold more than to weapons at 
 a time, and you can custimize your players outfit.
  
  If you have not tryed it yet, get the game because it brings out the true gamer in you.
  
  
 If your a kid trying to get your parents to buy it, its not that bad unless your parents dont like 
 language , then if you rent it and your parents here the swears or see the partial nudity you will 
 porbably not get the game.
  
  The online is really fun too!!! It might seem alot like GTA ,but you will still have alot of fun 
 with this GTA clone game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skimask101
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Just one Gangsta game that has a good mix between humor and action. In the game you do things a 
 supa-gangsta would do like insurance fraud, hostage and (the real super part) being able to do 
 whatever you want whenever you want. Personally I like the snatch activity where you steal ho's 
 from other pimps and bring the to the brothel your helping. The story has plenty funny cut-scenes 
 and lots of funny easter eggs. The free roam is great because when your not doing a misson or activity 
 you can go around tagging or just messing around shooting people. The next good part is the online 
 play, you can customze your online character from head to toe. Theres tons of clothes to buy online, and 
 you even make your own online gang. There are dissapiontments though like the lack of game modes 
 online and its a little to hard to make money so you got to be creative, its also a little realistic 
 when your making money when your in a gang. Theres something in saints row for everybody so its 
 definintely worth however much you pay for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thecrackdown
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun fun!!!!!!!!!! This game is like GTA but in my opinion 
 its better. You if i were you buy it dont rent it. The multiplayer is fun such as (Protect the 
 Pimp) . Where each team was a pimp and you got to protect yours, and kill the other teams. Story 
 mode is really fun!!!! The game is also realy fun beacause you can hold more than to weapons at 
 a time, and you can custimize your players outfit.
  
  If you have not tryed it yet, get the game because it brings out the true gamer in you.
  
  
 If your a kid trying to get your parents to buy it, its not that bad unless your parents dont like 
 language , then if you rent it and your parents here the swears or see the partial nudity you will 
 porbably not get the game.
  
  The online is really fun too!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09231991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, just plain fun. I love the game's attempt at a GTA-like game and does very well. 
 The game basically improves on a lot of things that GTA couldn't deliver on. Graphics are definitely 
 a noticeable difference and the graphics are great. The game's character creation is the most noticeable 
 difference because in GTA you couldn't make your main character. The character Creation is definitely 
 fleshed-out and there are a lot of options (even for clothes as well) . The game's story is pretty 
 much straightforward for anyone who's played GTA game but for those who haven't, I'll explain. 
 The story starts out with you creating your character (of course) and then a starting cutscene. 
 The game starts with your character walking on a sidewalk at night and passes by a hooker and a 
 watch-selling guy. You blow them off and keep walking and then you hear some guys start talking 
 really loud. Then a fight scene between three rival gangs breaks out in front of you and you end 
 up almost dying, but you don't. You get saved by another gang, the 3rd Street Saints and they ask 
 to join them, and you do. The game's overall mission setup and side mission setup is straightforward 
 and is well-done and fleshed out. But the game does have problems such as framerate issues that 
 could end in the game freezing (save often) and things like your character is like Link from Zelda, 
 he doesn't talk except for the last mission against each gang. Overall the game is fun and enjoyable 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keghead666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the absolute best games i have played since bioshock it is like grand theft auto 
 but with the ability to customize your character from the start and extremely fun mini respect 
 missions such as "hostage" also when you buy purple clothing (purple being the color of your gang) 
 you get boun respect points the best part of the game is that there are almost constantly gang 
 wars which are extremely fun and addictive when you have homies you can select to fight with you 
 you also have the ability to select the order that you want to play missions and what gangs you 
 wanna take out and in what order one of my only complaints is that you have to have the purple 
 gang on single player but you do get to pick on online so its okay and now i cant wait for saints 
 row 2 which is coming out this year...
  
  
  over all it gets a 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondacivicrider
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a GTA style game, that quickly got tossed aside as another rip off. You know what, 
 GTA may have been the first, but they are not the only, and not the best. 
  
  It makes me sad how quickly dismiss this game, they just compare it to GTA and that's that. Are 
 you kidding me? I love GTA as well, but did people actually play this game? It's fantastic!
  
  Graphics
  Great graphics, everything is smooth and looks great. The models are very nice, 
 deep details and there's some very nice damage that shows up on cars as they take a beating. Explosions 
 are ... shockingly fantastic to see in this game. 
  
  Game play
  Much like GTA, but more refined. Obviously GTA IV will change the market again, but for now Saints 
 Row is as good as you can get. The hand to hand fighting is great, driving is fantastic in all 
 the different type of cars and trucks, and shooting is equally good. My only gripe is there are 
 no motorcycles, no boats, and no planes/choppers.
  
  Honestly, this game plays better than any of the previous GTA games. The city feels busy and bustling, 
 drug dealers dealing, hookers trying to some green, cops stopping offenders. It really does feel 
 like there's more to the world than just you.
  
  There are also solid physics in this game, which I can promise you add an entire new level of fun 
 and engagement into the game. Flying down a stretch of road only to have some poor chap step in 
 front of you and his body slam off the front of your car (which shows the damage by the way) is 
 just fantastic. A lot of fun things can be done and seen with the system.
  
  The game takes advantage of it too, there is even a mini game based around the physics. 
  
 
  The world itself is huge, and there are plenty of stores and buildings you can walk into and just 
 hang out or buy stuff. 
  
  Sound
  Fantastic! The guns all sound really nice, the cars are great, the screams from people.
  
  
 Story
  I personally thought it was a solid story. It has plenty of plot twists and interesting cut scenes, 
 they did a good job of defining who each person is. The main story line is pretty simple, kill 
 off gang X, Y and Z. But it's done in a manner that doesn't seem so repetitive. The characters 
 in the game having personality may actually drive you to push harder against another gang as well. 
 
  
  Overall
  A totally underrated game, this is better than San Andres. That's not open for discussion, it is 
 an overall better and more enjoyable game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspmax022
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is about you taking over stillwater with the 3rd street saints. you can customize your 
 character clothes, hair, facial, and peircing and tatoos. you can buy cars, drug traffic, be a hitman, 
 pick up hoes, and so on. you can drive around in any car. and some of the cars are REALLY nice. 
 and when i said better then GTA i didnt mean SA. but i still rather play this because... of the 
 XBOXLIVE. its cool, you can customize your character again. and you can create a gang and kill 
 other people. its very cool. and also you can do activities like car jacking, chop shop, drug trafficing, 
 street racing, snatches, and picking up hoes. its fun, VERY fun. but you alos need to find CDs witch 
 unlock music for you to listen to while drving or running. and you get a cell to call numbers you 
 see around the city. and 911 for healing. so go buy this game. it has it all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olpfan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  The game at first seems like a complete gta copy and in a way it is and it isn't. Saints row has 
 the same elements as GTA but with more like the guider on the mini-map which helps a lot and also 
 a better gun system.
  
  The story line is pretty typical, your gang wants to own all the other gangs. But its still interesting 
 to see the different phases it goes through. Along side the missions are these sometimes mandatory 
 side missions like escort series mission or the hitman missions. So even after the games done you'll 
 have a blast trying to find all these hidden objects and completing all the side missions. The 
 game is very long and features an online set of games. If your a fan of the gta series then this 
 is a must play.
  
  Now theres also the cars, guns, and the ability to get drunk, which isn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandabear1888
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Some might want to call Saint's Row another in a long line of Grand Theft Auto clones, but once 
 you more beyond the glossy cover and venture into the Row you find out fast that it's nothing like 
 Grand Theft Auto. This is what makes Saint's Row so special and fresh.
  
  The first thing that will shift it from another clone is the customization. You can create a character 
 that's black, white, hispanic, or asian. Once you've done that you are thrown right into the mix 
 with a few simple missions (a kind of tutorial) . Once that's done you're free. You can explore 
 the entire expanse of Stillwater and don't have to do a hundred and one side-missions to unlock 
 new areas.
  
  One of the best features, I found, was the Activities. Some are fun, some difficult, and some simple. 
 You do these to earn respect which is used to do the main missions. What's even better is you can 
 do the three gangs in any order you like! If you should want to do a few from the Rollerz and then 
 a couple from the Carnales and one from the Vice Kings you can. You're not restricted to one gang 
 at a time.
  
  Another fun aspect is the limitless amounts of fun you can have and the unlockable stuff. From 
 rocket launchers to pipe bombs and "homies" (characters that you can call on for help) there's 
 pretty much something to every open-world crime fan.
  
  - Panda Bear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillay
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 20, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  I was shocked as to how bad the missions were, they didnt make you want to complete them , nor 
 even attempt to start them.
  The game did have some good qualitys, but they can only go so far....
  The robing a shop was 
 one of the greatest features, but you can only do that so many times.
  After a while i was wondering if i should get my money back.
  They push WAY to hard to get comedy 
 out, that it just isnt funny, the jokes were awful.
  
  There were very big, noticable glitches, one everyone has seen is going on a freeway and road just 
 disapears, you cant even see if your still driving or not, for a professionally made game, im amazed 
 they didnt even TRY to fix it.
  
  The graphics were defantly better then GTA SA but they wernt as good as they could have been, simply 
 basic for the next gen consoles.
  
  So overall i enjoyed the game for a day or two but after that it just got plan, BAD.
  I advise 
 you hire the game, you will then see what i am talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hierark123
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a free roam game with online play. It has customization from race to the player's 
 mouth size. The storyline is entertaining yet pretty quick with a sucky ending.... while xbox live 
 is entertaining and always fun to save up to get expensive outfits to trick out your character! 
 Yet there are not many maps to play on for each game type, ( 3 maps each game type but different 
 times of day and weather conditions ) but they are entertaining to keep you having fun and they 
 are based on area's in the story. Compared to GTA, Saints Row kicks it out of the compition.
  
  Saint's Row positive's:
  -good graphic
  -completely customize character
  -online play
 
  -ability to make an online gang
  Saint's Row negative's:
  -not many xbox live maps
  -no boats, bikes, planes, or helicopters (but you cant swim!)
  
  ..... But all in all....... It's 
 a great game and I recommend it to anyone....
  
  Earns a 9/10
  
  P. S. if you want to join my gang (Rough Rider's) send me a message on live my gamertag is: vinny 
 d123
  
  Peace out my home bro's =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMan2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Hey, let's be honest... this is a GTA rip-off. It's exactly like GTA Vice City and San Andreas, 
 it just does many of the things from those games better. 
  
  For me though, the GTA series was already played out. Even San Andreas had a been-there-done-that 
 feel to it and that same feeling comes out here. I can't see myself finishing this game just because 
 it would require me to complete 50 mostly similar missions. 
  
  Having said that... the game mechanics are simply better than in any GTA game. Driving physics are 
 more realistic, vehicles, streets, buildings and people are scaled more accurately. Combat is tighter. 
 All these things make the game a very good game, especially if you haven't played all the GTA games. 
 For me, however, it's largely more of the same... and I'm kinda tired of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr-Elijo
Rating: 9
Date: May 11, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  I got this game about a week after it came out. When I was about to play it I thought, 'here is 
 another GTA wannabe game' but after playing it for 5 or so hours I was absolutely amazed by the 
 quality of the game and the fact that it is one of the most addictive games I have ever played. 
 The visuals are great, the sound quality is great, and unlike GTA games, Saints Row is not very 
 hard. In every GTA game except Vice City Stories I have almost been tempted to use cheats, but 
 in Saints Row I cruised through the game without the thought of cheats even crossing my mind at 
 all.
  
  I am a big fan of the GTA style games and I have played all of the GTA's and most of the clones 
 but this game is definately my favourite out of all of them. I loved that it gives you the ability 
 to create your own player at the start of the game and fully customise him (or her for that matter) 
 the way you want them to be and you don't have to be the standard guy that came with the game.
 
  
  Overall I give Saints Row 9/10 and it misses out on a perfect 10 because the campaign was terribly 
 short (17 hours long to be precise) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Story: You're in a gang. Shoot stuff, take over, reign as ruler of Stilwater (Main and only City)
 
  
  Missions: A large variety of them. Mostly shooting but some cool things like hitman, escort, and 
 snatching uh "ho hoes"
  
  Controls: Can be hard to shoot while driving but not that annoying.
  
  Features: GTA clone 
 but with some funny humor.
  
  A. I.: Fairly stupid.
  
  Loading Times: Lots but quick.
  
  Graphics: Looks like The Sims... but hey it is a launch title.
  
  Audio: Lots of decent 
 rap songs! 'Clipse! Snoop! Chea!
  
  Multiplayer: Different... not the best but can be fun with friends.
  
  Requirements: 360.
 
  
  The Good: The best GTA clone around.
  
  The Bad: Frustrating A. I. that messes up some missions.
  
  The Ugly: You.
  
  Replay Ability: 
 Low.
  
  The Bottom Line: Cheap. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skinner24
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  So to begin with there have been a lot of talk about, Saints Row is just another GTA clone but 
 now when completed I still found it really addictive and fun.
  
  You start your life on the streets with a big and detailed customization of your character. This 
 feels good and gives you a personal touch on the cut scenes. You start your gang career by getting 
 thrown right into a gang war between the rivalling gangs, the Carnales a Mexican drug dealing gang, 
 Vice Kings a black bling bling gang and finally Westside Rollerz, spoiled white kids with big cars. 
 You are saved by Julius the leader of the gang The Saints. You're accepted in the gang and now 
 you can begin the long fight for the city of Stillwater.
  
  In Saints Row you have the ordinary story based mission (with some good and funny cut scenes) and 
 the more exiting, is the side quests called activities. There are about 8 different types of activities 
 for each gang, around the city. Here you have the chance for hijacking cars, steal hoes, deal drugs 
 and commit insurance fraud. These activities and story missions gives the game a nice flow. You 
 get special bonuses when completed all levels in an activity, and you find your self struggling 
 with the last level of a hijacking game just to get the smooth fast car 
  
  Saints Row is fun all the way through as you buy new cloth, jewellery and tattoos, and end up being 
 hot shot with big mansions and big cars. The city of Stillwater is a little plain and not so dynamic 
 but it works. Although Saints Row doesn't really come up with something new it's worth your while. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwooduhs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  No matter what people try tell you remember that saints row is and always will be a GTA clone, 
 but what game with this genre isn't considered a clone of the great Grand Theft Auto series. The 
 thing about this one though, is that its actually good and fun to play. it brings new ideas to 
 the open world concept. I mean who doesn't think insurance fraud is totally fun to play. Other 
 upsides are just what the game does to improve on old things in GTA like the weapon system is 100X 
 better than that old GTA way. The only; y problems with the game are repetitiveness and when certain 
 objects pop-up or disappear right in front of your eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarOceaner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  With the release of the Xbox 360, Grand Theft Auto fans had nothing to really play except the Xbox 
 version of San Andreas on their 360. As well as other GTA games made for Xbox. While there are 
 other games trying to copy the Grand Theft Auto formula, none really get close to the true GTA 
 formula like Saints Row does.
  
  You begin the game by creating a player. You can make him look however you want him to look, and 
 the options seem endless. After you are done creating your character, a scene happens. Saints Row 
 starts of with all of the gangs of Stilwater gunning each other down, and you're caught in the 
 middle of it. Just when a guy in yellow apparel is about to shoot you, Julius comes and saves you. 
 Julius is part of the 3rd Street Saints, a gang that is pretty much at the bottom of the list. 
 You have to help them retake the city of Stilwater and then it continues from there.
  
  Since Saints Row copies the Grand Theft Auto formula and has an open world for you to explore. 
 However, in Saints Row, you literally can go anywhere you want right at the start of the game, 
 but in Grand Theft Auto, you have to complete certain missions before you can unlock a part of 
 the map.
  
  You can't just simply go into a mission, complete it, and keep doing it until you beat the game. 
 The reason why is because Saints Row has this system of respect. You can only do certain missions 
 when you earn enough respect. Respect can be earned by doing the missions that you have enough 
 respect to do, but they are mostly acquired through side missions. The game forces you to do side 
 missions in order to complete the game, but they aren't like Grand Theft Auto's. In GTA, you can 
 rob a car and start a vigilante side mission where you just have to kill the criminals and you 
 do that for firefighter and so on. In Saints Row, you have Insurance Fraud, Mayhem, Racing, Demolition 
 Derby, and more. There are various activities in the game and they are all fun in their own way.
 
  
  The games customization features are great. When you earn enough money, you can purchase clothing 
 and make your character look much better than you did when you started. You can also "Pimp your 
 Ride" in this game. Although that's not what it's called, it's the same thing. You can go into 
 a shop and customize your own car and make it look however you want it to look. 
  
  If you are sick of constantly doing the activities to earn money, you can simply rob a store. When 
 you have a gun, you can hold it over the clerk until they reach the safe. Then they will give you 
 all the money and you can storm out the back door without any police notoriety. However, if you 
 fail to hold the gun in place, they will lower their arms and trigger the alarm, which usually 
 gives you a 2 star wanted level.
  
  Along with police notoriety, you can get gang notoriety. Shooting a gang member or bumping into 
 their cars can make the meter go up, and the higher the meter, the more gang members appear that 
 try to kill you.
  
  Saints Row looks good and plays good too. The game runs at 720p and higher, or so says the back 
 of the box. Either way, the game looks great. And the controls feel smooth. Shooting feels great 
 but can get difficult at times because of the fact that aiming can be frustrating, especially when 
 you have an all out war with another gang or the cops. But driving and shooting at the same time 
 has never felt so smooth.
  
  Saints Row has a 12 player multiplayer with some very fun multiplayer games. There's "Big Ass Chains" 
 in which you have to shoot other players and drop off a bunch necklaces at random points, there 
 is a death match, and a mission in which one team protects a pimp and the other tries to kill him.
 
  
  When you gain enough respect to do missions, the missions get a bit repetitive. Every mission has 
 you just running around shooting other gang members or doing objectives similar to ones you probably 
 have done before. There are glitches in the game which make it less fun to play, but most are only 
 minor ones.
  
  Overall, Saints Row is a great game that definitely deserves a chance. It's a fun pick-up-and-play 
 game that copies the GTA formula better, but doesn't quite get there. So it's like Grand Theft 
 Auto, but with multiplayer and several other features you wouldn't find in a copy of San Andreas.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: operamaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:01 am PT
Review:  At the first glance some might think that the game is just another GTA rip-off and yes it is similar 
 to GTA but not to the degree of a rip-off. The controls are pretty much the same still no speed 
 control function so you dont drive too fast and careless though.
  The first great function is the fact that you can create your character and make him look like 
 you want. You can make your character fat or thin, muscular or well not muscular. You can choose 
 eye colour, skin colour and hair color (you can have different haircuts as well) .
  Then in game you can buy and receive different sets of clothes and not just clothes but hats earings 
 rings and big bad necklaces.
  
  The story of the game in short is that youre a kid that after almost getting killed in a gangfight 
 gets invited to the saints a small gang that wants to take over the town. It's all about you taking 
 down three other rival gangs:
  The Vice Kings which is some big town gang led by a man named benjamin king (he got the cops on 
 his side)
  The West Side rollers some street racer gang led by an old man whos name eludes me.
  And the 
 los Carnales a hispanic gang dealing drugs drugs and drugs.
  
  Aside from theese families you engage in side activities like streetracing, drugtrafficking and 
 assassinating people. This you do to earn respect and monery to do quests and get weapons and clothes.
 
  
  The combat in-game could get overwhelming because of the controls but if you stick to cover it 
 usually goes well. The car chases though are annoying because all NPC cars that comes out of nowhere. 
 It is quite understandable that its annoting when a truck suddenly appears in front of you and 
 you crash loosing precious time.
  
  And i just have to mention the cars ohh the cars. dossens of customizable cars are at your disposal 
 and with the havok engine crashing with them have never been such fun.
  
  But generally Saints row is a must play for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is similar to Grand Theft Auto, it has the same feeling for t he controls, story-lines. 
 You can create a character then you can able to dress and create your own cars. You can also have 
 side-quest to earn repect and money. The controls can be shaky sometimes, and the graphics are 
 pretty good and the music is not that bad for the game. After awhile the voices for the people 
 when you past by can be annoying sometime and it can repeat itself. The voice acting in another 
 hand are good. Online isn't bad, but sometimes it can be annoying when you try too do some of the 
 quest like insurance fraud. Some of the quest can be difficult and some are quite easy. But this 
 game isn't bad at all, it fun and unique. If you like this kind of game you should get this game. 
 If you not sure about it, rent first to see you enjoy this game. It's a game that also can be in 
 your collection as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agustbestur
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Over the past five years, Rockstar North (once known as DMA) has created -- and set -- the standard 
 for games in a genre that, for lack of a better term, are "Grand Theft Auto" or "GTA" games. Some 
 might call the genre "urban mayhem," but whatever you call it, Grand Theft Auto III created a genre, 
 the same way Castle Wolfenstein 3-D and Doom did with first-person shooters. Thus, at least right 
 now, every game that competes in this genre competes directly with any one of the GTA games, all 
 of which have raised the bar in videogame production, theme maturity and language, open-world design, 
 and lastly, production cost (they're expensive games to make) . That is, until another developer 
 does it better than Rockstar. Volition's Saints Row is the newest contender on GTA grounds, following 
 all three GTAs, Activision's True Crime, Sony's The Getaway, EA's The Godfather, etc., and it's 
 both a ballsy, brave, fun game while simultaneously being guilty of the heaviest degree of copy 
 cat-ism, me-too derivation, and just-plain over-doing it.
  
  Saints Row, however, portrays Volition (The Punisher, Red Faction 1 & 2, Descent: Free Space) as 
 an erudite student of the genre. This next-gen, open-world action-shooting-racing game solves numerous 
 problems born in GTA, and the Champaign, Ill.-based studio has whittled away at the concept, forming 
 a highly polished design that plays well, feels good, and that functions smoothly and with great 
 ease of use. Saints Row is not only a 30-40 hour single-player game with a smart progression system, 
 a breadth of engaging missions, and tons of car and character customization, it's the first game 
 in this genre to successfully negotiate online and multiplayer waters, including online and SystemLink 
 co-op functionality.
  
  Unoriginal But Fun
  I'll be totally honest up front. For the longest time, I've had serious doubts about Volition's 
 game. It was originally slated as a launch title and was pushed back due to many obvious reasons 
 (looked bad, played bad, wasn't done, etc.) . On the surface, it smacks of being the biggest rip-off 
 of all time. The game mimics nearly every possible thing that's done well in GTA and re-creates 
 it with a bravado and guiltlessness that sticks in my ribs like a dull rusty knife. How can Volition 
 do this and feel good about itself? How can they so indiscreetly copy GTA? At least True Crime 
 and The Godfather tried different font styles, pedestrian humor, and radio station ideas. They 
 copied ideas, not the whole damn thing. But like so many great writers (Shakespeare's Romeo and 
 Juliet wasn't his original story, he just did it better than the original playwright) , artists, 
 musicians and game developers, copying an idea is one thing; copying an idea and making it better 
 is another. Z-targeting from Zelda, soul sucking from Legacy of Kain, you name it, ideas flow freely 
 from development studio to studio. You feel slighted when an original game like GTA is copied and 
 pasted, but you feel better about it, and you give credit to the artist that copied it, improved 
 upon it, and went a little further. While Volition is guilty as sin for copying Rockstar wholesale, 
 it's also improved upon GTA in many ways, making the experience of playing a game in this genre 
 bigger and brasher.
  
  Despite it unoriginal premise and derivative nature, Saints Row holds up throughout because it's 
 smartly designed, technically solid, and straight out fun, whether we're talking single-player, 
 co-op, or multiplayer. In the single-player game, you follow the story of four gangs fighting for 
 power in the imaginary modern day town of Stilwater, and you start as a no-name, low-level innocent 
 whose life is saved by Julius of the 3rd Street Saints and eventually play a major role in the 
 gang's rise to power. The Saints (a mish-mash of ethnicities) compete with Los Carnales (the Mexican 
 gang with Columbian ties) , the Vice Kings (the African-American gang with ties to the music industry 
 and cops) , and the Westside Rollerz (the suburban dudes with a thing for import cars) , all visible 
 through their consistent use of colors and a handy map that provides exquisite detail for each 
 territory.
  
  Just like GTA
  The gameplay is just like GTA in most respects. It's open, enabling players to walk, run, swim, 
 fight, shoot, drive, and pick missions at their will and in any order. The third-person view enable 
 players to freely swing the camera around using the right analog stick, while moving the characters 
 around with the left analog stick. Players can punch, kick, and block using the left triggers and 
 bumpers, and with a gun in hand, the right trigger provides the shooting. While driving you can 
 shoot, select weapons (as long as they don't require two hands) , and recruit other Saints. You 
 start the game by joining the Saints, and through in-game tutorials, learn how everything works 
 each time you encounter a new interaction. The story is solid on most fronts. Even though you'll 
 cringe here and there from the overt amount of foul language, forced humor, and shamelessness of 
 the game's hip-hop "vibe," the narrative is slightly better than ordinary, but the characters flesh 
 it out skillfully thanks to adept voice actors and generally smart dialog. You'll hear the F-bomb 
 every fourth word from the main characters, the pedestrians, even on the radio -- and that gets 
 really tiring. Thrifty use of the f-bomb is far more effective that swearing in every sentence. 
 Still, enough twists and turns come your way to keep the narrative interesting and worthwhile.
 
  
  Volition did several things very right, especially with gun controls. It worked tenaciously on 
 nailing a good control system down, and in a sense this was easy. Instead of struggling with a 
 lock-on aiming system, they let it go free. Aiming consists of picking a weapon holding the B button, 
 selecting a weapon on a radial dial, and pressing the right trigger to shoot. The small circular 
 reticule turns red when rolled over a non-gang member, i. e. pedestrians and opponent gang members. 
 Again, there is no auto-aiming. The reticule freely moves around using a steady not-too fast, not-too 
 slow mechanic that doesn't get in the way. It works, and it works well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Released: August 29, 2006
  Publisher: THQ
  Developer: Volition Inc.
  Game Genre: Modern Action Adventure
  ESRB Rating: M for Mature
  ESRB Description: Blood and 
 Gore, Intense Violence, Partial Nudity, 
  Strong Language, Strong Sexual Content, Use of Drugs 
  and Alcohol
  
  Opening Thoughts:
 
  Being a fan of Rockstar's Grand Theft Auto series, I did not think anybody could rip it off, get 
 away with it, and make it interesting. Then I played Saint's Row.
  
  Story: 20%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (10/10)
  Saint's Row is the only 
 game I have every played that has a main character who does not talk and at the same time keeps 
 the storyline interesting. There is enough humor to keep the story indulging, and a basis strong 
 enough to keep the player interested. 
  
  You join up with the Third Street Saints, a gang from Saint's Row. The objective of the game is 
 to rid Pacific City of the other three gangs roaming around (Vice Kings, Los Carnales, Westside 
 Rollerz) while avoiding the cops. You may take them in any order. The characters all have their 
 own personality and you take immediate interest in them. For example, Julius, the leader of the 
 Third Street Saints. He has a calm personality but an obvious air of leadership. Johnny Gat is 
 a guns-blazing maniac, Dax is a smart thinker, and Troy is a loner. 
  
  The ending leaves obvious room for a sequel (coming out in 2008) that will have an even deeper 
 storyline.
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  The gameplay is incredibly similar to the GTA series. The same physics engine, you have cribs, 
 a garage, weapons stores, a place to get rid of wanted levels, etc. It improves on GTA's engine, 
 however, by being smoother.
  
  We'll start with the storyline. Each gang has around 10 missions to play, along with a few 'strongholds' 
 that give you control of the 36 territories of Pacific City. Simple enough. 
  
  Aside from the missions, there are dozens of activities to play that yield respect and money. Respect 
 is needed to play the missions. Below are the activities; there are three of each except demolition 
 derby (1) and snatch (4) . Hostage and Theft are optional and can be performed at any time.
  
  Snatch-Kill pimps, take their women and return them to a brothel.
  Escort-Drive a hooker 
 around town to pick up prestigious individuals who do not 
  want to be seen. Avoid news vans and various individuals.
  Racing-Participate in checkpoint, 
 lap, and point-to-point street races.
  Insurance Fraud-Take dives in front of vehicles to get insurance money.
  Demolition Derby-No 
 need for an explanation.
  Hitman-Take a list of 8 individuals and kill them with a specified weapon.
  Chop Shop-Take a 
 list of 8 vehicles, soup them up with specified specifications, 
  and take them back to a garage.
  Mayhem-Kill people and blow things up.
  Hijacking-Hijack vehicles 
 and take them back to a garage while avoiding cops 
  and/or gang hit squads.
  Hostage-Hijack a vehicle with at least 1 passenger and avoid the cops until they 
  pay a ransom.
 
  Theft-Enter a store at night, open the safe and take the stolen goods to a pawn 
  shop.
  CD Collection-There are 60 CDs hidden around Pacific city. Finding all of them 
  unlocks new 
 music.
  Tagging-There are a large amount of gang graffiti drawings around town. 
  Spray over them.
  
  Performing these activities unlocks some incredibly useful things.
  
 
  The garages are by far the best part of Saint's Row. Park a car in a garage and it can be retrieved 
 at any owned crib at any time. The garage doesn't run out of space, either. I had one of every 
 vehicle in the game stored in my garage, all souped up and colored purple (The color of the Third 
 Street Saints) .
  
  Graphics (9/10)
  The cinematics are great and the graphics are smooth, but there are some draw distance problems 
 that occur when driving fast (especially on the highways) that make the landscape blank for a couple 
 seconds while bringing up new graphics.
  
  Durability (9/10)
  The game itself lasts a long time, and there are a lot of things to do, but not much reason to 
 replay it.
  
  Overall Score (9.6/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  I loved the game and will be the first to grab the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superman_34_99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is basically a GTA clone. That is why I going to refer to GTA a lot. It does a few things 
 to separate it's self. It looks a lot better than any GTA. The radar helps out a lot. You are able 
 to click any spot on the map you want to go and it will tell you how to get there. The shooting 
 is much better than GTAs and fairly easy to use. The save anytime feature is also nice. The amount 
 of customization you can do to cars is nice. Than there is also multi-player both co-op and death 
 match types. I haven't played these too much but I didn't really think the multiplayer was much 
 fun. It didn't run smoothly and the environments were pretty ugly.
  
  The story and dialogue don't even compare to GTA. They are totally uninteresting and the dialogue 
 is so stereotypical. Unlike GTA you aren't able to fly planes or choppers and drive boats. They 
 should have included some more variety for weapons as well. I don't car for the mission structure 
 either. You have to run around and do the same old side missions before tackling main missions. 
 The missions are too easy and too similar.
  
  Despite all the bad I had to say about the game I still find myself having fun playing the game. 
 The mayhem missions are fun. Just don't go into this game expecting GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WPxPaladin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a GTA style game, that quickly got tossed aside as another rip off. You know what, 
 GTA may have been the first, but they are not the only, and not the best. 
  
  It makes me sad how quickly dismiss this game, they just compare it to GTA and that's that. Are 
 you kidding me? I love GTA as well, but did people actually play this game? It's fantastic!
  
  Graphics
  Great graphics, everything is smooth and looks great. The models are very nice, 
 deep details and there's some very nice damage that shows up on cars as they take a beating. Explosions 
 are ... shockingly fantastic to see in this game. 
  
  Game play
  Much like GTA, but more refined. Obviously GTA IV will change the market again, but for now Saints 
 Row is as good as you can get. The hand to hand fighting is great, driving is fantastic in all 
 the different type of cars and trucks, and shooting is equally good. My only gripe is there are 
 no motorcycles, no boats, and no planes/choppers.
  
  Honestly, this game plays better than any of the previous GTA games. The city feels busy and bustling, 
 drug dealers dealing, hookers trying to some green, cops stopping offenders. It really does feel 
 like there's more to the world than just you.
  
  There are also solid physics in this game, which I can promise you add an entire new level of fun 
 and engagement into the game. Flying down a stretch of road only to have some poor chap step in 
 front of you and his body slam off the front of your car (which shows the damage by the way) is 
 just fantastic. A lot of fun things can be done and seen with the system.
  
  The game takes advantage of it too, there is even a mini game based around the physics. 
  
 
  The world itself is huge, and there are plenty of stores and buildings you can walk into and just 
 hang out or buy stuff. 
  
  Sound
  Fantastic! The guns all sound really nice, the cars are great, the screams from people.
  
  
 Story
  I personally thought it was a solid story. It has plenty of plot twists and interesting cut scenes, 
 they did a good job of defining who each person is. The main story line is pretty simple, kill 
 off gang X, Y and Z. But it's done in a manner that doesn't seem so repetitive. The characters 
 in the game having personality may actually drive you to push harder against another gang as well. 
 
  
  Overall
  A totally underrated game, this is better than San Andres. That's not open for discussion, it is 
 an overall better and more enjoyable game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The game plays up its gang-warfare angle quite a bit. Sometimes rival gangs will attack your districts, 
 prompting you to head there and take out enemy lieutenants or else lose your grip on the territory. 
 You'll also get to raid enemy strongholds, which take the form of action-packed on-foot shooting 
 missions. Especially since the minimap shows you all enemies in the vicinity, it's not difficult 
 to take on vastly superior odds, but these missions still make for a satisfying diversion from 
 all the driving around. Some nonviolent activities are available, as well. The game tasks you with 
 spraying over rival gangs' graffiti around the city, as well as finding hidden music CDs strewn 
 about all corners of the map. You can shop for new clothes and jewelry, as well as customize your 
 cars with a wide variety of accesories, a couple of which -- nitrous and hydraulics -- are functional, 
 not just cosmetic. You can also use your cell phone to dial up phone numbers you'll see advertised 
 around Stilwater, which leads to a few amusing gags. 
  
  
  
  
  You can make the game's main character look however you want. You can even visit a plastic surgeon 
 if you later change your mind.
  Saints Row is most similar to 2001's Grand Theft Auto III, in particular. Vice City and San Andreas 
 each had their own distinct senses of style, their own protagonists, and their own extras that 
 substantially added to GTA III's formula. In turn, the scope of Saints Row's content is similar 
 to that landmark game. There are a ton of different cars you can steal and drive, but there aren't 
 any motorcycles on the road, no boats to be driven out in the bay, and no planes to be flown. GTA-style 
 taxi missions, police vigilante missions, and ambulance rescue missions aren't in here, and for 
 some reason, Stilwater has no fire trucks in it (though it does have meter maids doling out parking 
 tickets) . The setting of Stilwater feels big at first, but you can drive from one end of the city 
 to the other in just a few minutes (if you drive fast, of course) . There are a decent number of 
 cars on the road and people on the streets, but it gets nowhere near as dense as the sort of gridlock 
 you get in real-world cities. Of course, you'll almost never encounter a locked car door, either. 
 The city itself is similar to GTA III's Liberty City, since it seems like any major American metropolis, 
 with all the various types of districts you'd expect and a few bridges and highways tying it all 
 together. You even play as a silent "everyman" protagonist throughout the game, who interacts with 
 the other characters in the story mostly by nodding in acknowledgment. And there's a great classical 
 music station on the radio, among others. 
  
  The game's lack of originality is probably the worst thing that can be said about it, but Saints 
 Row does have some other shortcomings. For instance, it doesn't have much in the way of mission 
 variety. Since driving and shooting are the two main aspects of play, there are only so many different 
 variations on these themes that the game is able to cook up, and you've probably seen most of it 
 before in other games. Saints Row is a satisfyingly long game that'll probably take you about 20 
 hours to get to the end of the main storyline, but while you'll likely have many activities left 
 to do and only around a 60 percent completion rate by that time, you won't necessarily feel compelled 
 to keep doing the same types of missions over and over again. Thankfully, the game makes good use 
 of unlockable achievements, which may entice you to dig deeper into the minigames and other minor 
 tasks, as well as the multiplayer mode. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:42 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row offers full character customization where as you can be yourself as you play the game. 
 You can create a character which reflects you in real life. The way you look, your race, the way 
 dress and your gender. There is alot of clothes to buy in many stores. You can change everything 
 you wear the way you like it, and anytime you feel like doing so. This feature makes players be 
 themselves and express themselves.
  
  Saints Row is the lime light of all action games because it has alot flash and blings. There are 
 alot of jewelry stores where you can buy necklaces, earrings, rings, and many more accessories. 
 It is very innovative of Saints Row to have a unique feature where you can change what metal you 
 like for your jewelry. Choosing from silver, gold, and platinum, a player may wish to wear what 
 suits him most. The game had it's surprises when it comes to jewelries. There are jewelries which 
 one may only obtain upon finishing missions.
  
  The shine of the game didn't end at just jewelries. It also offered glossy awesome cars. The cars 
 shine because you can fully customize your ride at Rim Jobs - shops which you can visit you anytime 
 in order to make your car as cool as possible. Don't think the game is costly because you spend 
 alot on customization. It's a really convenient part of the game in which you can just steal a 
 customized car. It just takes an observant eye and you can spot people around you driving really 
 hot cars and steal them. I really like the way this game included really rare cars, one can only 
 spot at certain time and place, and one can buy for a really expensive price. It added more thrill 
 to the game. The time and effort on saving cash to buy the most expensive car and the time consuming 
 search and wait for a rare car is so fulfilling when you get what you want in the end.
  
  You will be playing this game for really long fun-filled and action packed ours. It is because 
 it has alot of missions. The most action packed which had me at the edge of my bed is the snatch 
 activity. To be particular it is the snatch activity in the territory of the Los Carnales. The 
 enemies are so brutal. They come in a crew of 4 in fast low-rider car and blast you with sub michine 
 guns. It was explosions and dead bodies everywhere on levels 5 to 8. It got me craving for more!
 
  
  The test of patience really got me eating while playing or just holding my controller and listening 
 to the games radio stations' music. This test of patience is the Chop Shop activity. Saints Row 
 was really realistic on this part of the game. You will find a car depending on time, weather, 
 place, people and environment. It really got me thinking on where I may find that certain car needed. 
 The creators of this game really put their heart on to this game and they made it as realistic 
 as possible.
  
  This is the one thing you can only find in Saints Row: party system. Playing an action game single 
 player is now better than ever. You can call homies to ride with you. You and your crew will protect 
 each other in order to dominate and eliminate other gangs. There will only be a maximum of 3 crew 
 members you can bring along to ride with you but expect nearby allies to assist you when you are 
 attacked close to them. The funniest moments I had in the game was being able to ride with the 
 special crew. These are the ones you unlock when you finish certain mission. I had lots of laugh 
 with the special crew member you unlock when you finish the Escort Activity which is near you 1st 
 crib. I also think she is the most powerful crew you can ever ride with.
  
  One can play Saints Row with friends and family. I play it with my wife. What we love most is the 
 humor in this game. We have lots of laugh and good time playing this. We also love our modified 
 and customized most expensive sports car we bought at Foreign Power. This is the coolest car on 
 Saints Row. It's customized from the window tints to the NOS.
  
  Saints Row has so many features. Endless possibilities you can do. It has alot of great music you 
 can listen to on the radio or buy as an mp3 for your audio player. I enjoy this game and I am still 
 playing it until now. It's been 5 months since I had this game and playing it is still as fun as 
 when new because the many things one can do. I really love and enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HioMyMan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  many might say this is just another GTA rip off, which in a way sure i guess it is.. but in its 
 own way saints how has some characteristics that make it alot of fun. 
  
  you start off just joining the 3rd street saints and are playing to take over the city of Stilwater. 
 there are also 3 other major gangs in the game that you fight, do missions for, and pretty much 
 just try to eliminate off of the stilwater turf. the missions are somewhat repetitive and i guess 
 it can lose its cool after a while, but there is also many other things to do a side of the missions 
 like steal cars, take cars to chopshops, take hookers from their pimps haha, and a few other things. 
 the side missions serve a good purpose though, because doing the side missions gives you respect 
 so that you can complete the actual missions of the game. i like the fact that in saints row everything 
 from your character to the way your cars look is completely custom. you can pretty much look almost 
 any way possible, race, clothes, style, whatever it may be. and there is also shops to make the 
 cars look all riced out which is actually kind of stupid now that ive suddenly thought about it. 
 i also find it hilarious that you can drink and smoke weed by buying them both at some local store, 
 driving high and drunk in the game is hysterical.
  
  the soundtrack for the game is alright, ive heard of a few songs, never heard of most of the songs 
 in there.
  
  graphic-wise saints row isnt too bad, just like GTA it does have its fair share of bugs and whatnot, 
 but what game doesnt at points?
  
  anyway... defiently would reccomend saints row for anyone who likes the open-ended games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M49907
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Being the first next gen game of its kind its pretty good. It looks alright to. You should buy 
 it if you dont already have it. Its probly like 30 dollars now? If you like GTA games wou will 
 like this game. The missions are better than any in GTA: SA. GTA3 still takes the cake for me. The 
 missions are good but i hate having to build up respect in order to play them. Respect is gained 
 by doing side missions (that suck) . Drug runing activities are the worst. On a good note there 
 is character creation. The character creation is good and theres many different clothing stores 
 you can buy things from. 
  
  No one really thinks multi player when they think of this game. The reason is the multi player 
 sucks. Dont bother going online with this game there is no reason to. I didnt even expect there 
 to be an online option so its not going to bring the value of this game down. If you have a 360 
 you should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4_2112
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is probably one of the best game to copy from a GTA game. Saints Row might remind you 
 of San Andres a little bit. It has the gangster storyline. It has very good custamization (you can 
 choose your own race, how fat, skinny, or ripped you are) . It has alot of vehicles to choose from but 
 they are just cars so you want see any motorcycles or planes. So you start out in this small gang 
 called The Saints and you have three rival gangs in the city of Stillwater. You can choose which 
 gang to eleminate first so you can control the city. The graphics are better than any GTA game yet 
 but it is a next gen game and they were last gen. There is not that much weapons to choose from 
 but the ones you get are pretty fun to use. So if you want another GTA clone that is pretty fun 
 than Saints Row is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_hell94
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Okay this review is about both Saints Row (THQ) and San Andreas (Rockstar) . I've been playing Saints 
 Row since summer '07 and i have completed it and enjoyed every moment. I last played San Andreas 
 Last Year (2006) around winter. Today (08/12/07) i decieded to reinstall my copy of GTASA and play 
 it again. Here are some of the points where the two games fite (well in a way - not physically)
 
  
  Graphics:
  Ok im going to start with the graphics. Now most probably the 360 graph card is going to be better 
 than my PC's sh*tty nVidia GeForce 4 with 64mb. Now saints row graphics do seem to be more solid, 
 realistic and vibrant.
  SA on the other hand seems to lack these solid graphics and all the colours seem to be dull in 
 a way.
  Winner - Saints
  
  Gameplay:
  Ok this may sound wierd but i never completed SA and most probably never will but i did complete 
 Saints. I feel that the Saints Row story line is a little short and annoying - i mean you die on 
 a bloody boat with a bomb, then its the credits and back to the main menu!!!! But always game developers 
 seem to arse up every game. I mean the story writer seemed be in a hurry when writing the end. 
 I mean couldnt we at respawn at a hospital!!!! From what i can remember the SA storyline was long 
 but challenging, the reason why i didnt complete it.
  Winner - Not sure Saints is easy but annoyingly short, SA is long and challenging but too challenging 
 (Definatly if your trying to fly a fukin plane using a KEYBOARD!!!!!)
  
  Cars:
  The cars in both games are pretty cool although the detail is more in Saints.
  If you look at 
 the back of say a Compton (Saints) when its dark and the taillights are on - when you brake the 
 brake lights sort of luminate. This doesnt happen on SA. The damage engine on Saints seems quite 
 rubbish compared to say Colin McRae DiRT but the damage on SA is very weedy. I mean like when the 
 car is blown up it still looks like a fukin car just gone black - compared to the burning wreck 
 you get on Saints. Now i could go on and on about cars on both games but i feel the Saints win 
 fair and square.
  Winner Saints
  
  Weapons:
  Not sure really coz i aint played SA in ages, but i do like the weapons on Saints - Definatly the 
 following:
  Baseball Bat
  44. Shepard
  TK30 Urban (??)
  RPG
  Pipe Bomb
  Hand Grenade
  Tombstone
  
  Now i dont really feel like writing anymore because i havent properly 
 looked at both games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tropicalbert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 5:06 am PT
Review:  The first time you play Saints Row you will probably be deceived, knowing that you're not playing 
 a GTA game. When you get the game running for about 10 minutes, yo know that this is the game that 
 will entertain you until GTA IV. 
  The game features some stuff that we could wish to see on a GTA game, like:
  -really good car 
 customization.
  -money actually is important and not abundant
  -coins
  -better robberies
  -AWESOME EXPLOSIONS
  -saving with the start menu
  and more little things 
 that make SAINTS ROW worth buying.
  
  
  The Bad thing about the game and the most noticeable thing are the major glitches. Sometime you'll 
 be driving around and the car will disappear leaving you floating on the street and making you 
 have to save and load to get out. Although this doesn't happen that often, I recommend saving after 
 every mission or activity ( saving is easy, press start and save)
  
  Cheap and AWESOME GAME!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Theres are some games that are trying to copy Grand Theft Auto's gameplay with varying success. 
 One of the most succesfull though is Saints Row. While it may not be as revolutionary as Grand 
 Theft Auto, it still enjoyable. The gameplay is similar to Grand Theft though one of the new features 
 is that you can fire a gyun while in a car which can be helpfull. Customization in the game is 
 less limited than GTA. The bad thing is that things like motors, airplanes, helicopters, boats, 
 aren't ridable. You may find though a Fire Truck but you won't be able to see any of them in the 
 city except one parked in the airport. The visuals though are great. The shadowing, lighting, characters 
 and environment looks great. The frame rate of the game is also stable. I noticed though a couple 
 of slowdowns while playing the game in High Definition. On standard definition though, it rans 
 smoothly. Music and sounds in the game is quite good. You can of course buy music in the game though 
 most of your favorites won't be there.
  
  While again, it may not be as revolutionary as Grand Theft, Saints Row is still enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  In the world of gaming art, you will find many copy-cats. That is a simple fact that will always 
 be true, especially with something that works extremely well. GTA, a sand box adventure game driven 
 by great story and wonderful graphics, at one point was stuck finding its niche. The orignal concept 
 was solid, but it was clear that more was desired from the developers and gamers alike. As the 
 years passed, GTA blossumed into a huge series that continues to show everyone else how its done... 
 until Saints Row came along. Why copy someone in lazy fashion and come up short when you can take 
 note of what was done right and build upon that. SR does exactly that and then some, which is a 
 big plus for any 360 owner and the 5 people who never played a GTA game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Flat out FUN in every sense of the word. Sand box games gamble a lot on the idea of creating a 
 tangible world that allows the player to explore and drive the story as they please. Sounds simple, 
 but to do it just right requires near perfect execution. Before you're tossed into the city of 
 Stillwater, you have to create your own male character who can be adjusted to any color or shape 
 that fits your desired profile. Further additions like clothing, jewelry, tattoos, piercings and 
 hair styles can later be changed. Once able to walk the streets, you team up with your gang color 
 and duke it out against other colored gangs to claim territory through missions and activities. 
 The meat of the game is mostly driven by the overall story, but there are various other locations 
 that span across the entire city that invite shopping, discovery of hidden items, tons of vehicles, 
 further customization, and cribs. If urban exploration doesn't entertain you, take the gang fight 
 online in competitive battles that are a lot more than simple death matches. Be warned, if you 
 can't handle trash talk or aggressive gaming, this is NOT the place for you.
  
  VISUALS
  Besides the surreal character customization and massive city that cycles through night and day 
 with hundreds of citizens driving and walking the streets, SR is a wonderful display of what games 
 should be like on the 360 and beyond. That is... if you can excuse the horrible graphical hiccups 
 that occur more often than prefered. With so much going on from NPC behavior, ridiculous amounts 
 of environmental physics, and character interaction, the game does suffer in notable areas. While 
 driving calmly down the highway, avoiding accidents, radio switched off, and no weapons active 
 you can see draw distance issues or sometimes even missing bits of areas. When games first started 
 going 3D, the price to pay for having so much at your finger tips was not everything could viewed 
 in a single glance. Back then, graphics were so-so and machine power was very limited. I've not 
 only noticed this problem in various copies of the game on and offline, but it seems that even 
 after item updates through Xbox Live, the problem is ongoing. A major factor many gamers have cursed 
 this title for, but anyone who can overlook such details that rarely interrupts the overall game 
 continues to find great enjoyment in what is working.
  
  AUDIO
  Something that blew me away with GTA was the expansion of their in-game world by creating radio 
 stations. While traveling around a digital city completing numerous task, why not enjoy some music 
 and actual DJ yammering. Seems like a decent thing to offer any gamer. SR goes one big step further 
 by not only having various stations dedicated to certain types of music, but the amount of voice 
 work within the world of Stillwater is insane. Characters from the main story are well spoken by 
 famous actors such as Clancy Brown, Michael Clarke Duncan, Keith David, Tia Carrere and many others. 
 Include the vast amount of NPC voice work and superb musical selection, and maybe then you can 
 bask in the glory of ambience done at its best. City sounds are believable, vehicle engines roar 
 with real excitement, weapons have their own distinct punch and surface interactions are on point. 
 With a good connection and players who don't abuse the mic, online communication works pretty well 
 too.
  
  EXTRAS
  After spending 20+ hours in the world of Stillwater, I can honestly say a majority of that time 
 was spent taking part in the various activites that allows for special unlockables and achievements. 
 With more than 14 different zany side activities ranging from hikacking specially requested vehicles 
 to killing off pimps for their female counter parts, plus dozens of other secrets to uncover, you 
 can easily lose yourself in side adventures that have nothing to do with the main story. Once you 
 begin to unlock bonuses in the city, you get discounts at garages and gun shops, homies follow 
 you on command, pimped out vehicles become yours, penalties get a little softer, and damage from 
 certain ouchies is reduced. If you feel cocky enough to take on the harsh online community, money 
 can be gained in that mode also that allows for character customization and a few ranked based 
 achievements. 
  
  OVERALL
  This is not a GTA clone. Saints Row is a open ended, territory claming, story driven, online capable 
 game that shows why sand box adventures can only get better as technology and developers brave 
 the unknown. The game could be penalized for minor problems in graphics and gameplay, absence of 
 air and sea vehicles, maybe even the lack of a female lead character could dock it a few favorable 
 mentions. Beyond the minimal gripes, SR takes great strides in improving the art form GTA called 
 their own for so long. Not many can match what was orginally offered, graphically or content-wise, 
 but there is a new kid on the block. And I bet money, like the big daddy that had this genre locked 
 up for so long, Saints Row and crew are just beginning to show us what a sand box game is all about. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArturiusMaxwell
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  I liked it at first, the range of options it gave made it feel like the 5 minutes I had playing 
 grand theft auto. Sadly after about two hours of running around aimlessly and senselessly beating 
 up rival gang members it got dull.
  
  After the two hours I decided it was best to try and deal with the first of the missions I would 
 have to face, and boyo my impression of this game slip down two knotches for every time that smooth 
 mouth hispanic opened his mouth. I think at the end of the second mission the game total was -294 
 but that was alright because the combination of cars to drive, guns to shoot, people to shoot at 
 and stuff I could steal made theplay time worthwhile. Don't know what it says about me but I especially 
 liked the pimping lol. 
  
  The only down side to this game in my opinion is the story arc, certainly it is self evident that 
 this couldn't possibly happen in real life but thats no matter, the thing that bothers me is that 
 its so linear and it ends when things start to get good. Like Crack Down I would have to say that 
 this game in a sequel or even a reinventing of itself would be best with at least double the number 
 of rival gangs and oponents to shoot up in the streets and possibly a choice as to whether you 
 were a man or woman for your the main character, my wife liked the game but got bored with the 
 male lead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  Saints Row copies Grand Theft Auto franchise very boldly, but does some of the little things better.
 
  
  Story in Saints Row is pretty much the same as in Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. Your character 
 gets to be a member of a gang in a city called Stillwater. It is your job to take out rival gangs 
 and to make your own gang as the only one on the block.
  
  Graphics are far better than what GTA has ever been able to pull off. Environments have more details 
 and the use of bright colors makes this a beautiful game to look at. Unfortunately you will notice 
 some popping and frame rate drops especially in the background while driving. Music and sound effects 
 are also good making the world of Stillwater to come alive, but sometimes the comments of casual 
 people on the street tend to repeat themselves. All in all the audio visual presentation in Saints 
 Row does not disappoint.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much the same as in GTA: San Andreas, but it makes some significant improvements. 
 At the beginning of the game you can make your own character and theres a moderate amount of choices 
 to choose from. This helps you to create a more personal feel to your character.
  
  Targeting system uses a first person shooter reticle, which works almost perfectly and much better 
 than a standard automatic targeting used in San Andreas. You can now save any time outside of a 
 mission and when you start playing in the next day you will start at your latest save point. Save 
 system is great.
  
  If you fail a mission you get choose whether or not you want to try again and if you do you start 
 just from the beginning of a mission. This means that you dont first need to drive from a police 
 station or a hospital to the location where the mission started in order to try again.
  
  Map is way better than it was in San Andreas: you can select which points of interest you want 
 to see and then choose a point of interest. A map will draw a line from your current location like 
 you were using a GPS in the game. There are no restrictions like bridges between areas and you 
 can immediately drive anywhere in the map.
  
  There are two not-so-good things in Saints Row: first there is only cars to drive with so no motorcycles, 
 bikes or boats. Secondly in order to proceed in the story you time and time again need to perform 
 some side missions, because you need to gain more respect to unlock more missions. Its not huge 
 thing though, because doing side quests is generally a fun thing to do.
  
  There is also a multiplayer mode here, which includes standard deathmatches and some co-op missions. 
 Its a fun addition and it doesnt hurt the overall package, but it does not make a huge improvement 
 either.
  
  Saints Row does some gameplay improvements to make it a little better than what GTA: San Andreas 
 had to offer. If you liked that game you definitely want to check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidcll
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I've just about finished playing Saints Row. I've got a few activities that I'm still working on 
 getting all the way to level 8 on, but at the moment, all that I have remaining is the final cut 
 scene on the main missions sequence. I've got to say that I've found Saints Row to be a thoroughly 
 enjoyable game. 
  
  I've played a few of the previous installments of GTA, but I will admit - only on the PC. I've 
 always found it too frustrating or difficult to get anywhere close to completion. There were a 
 lot of different options, and elements that I found fun and interesting, but was never able to 
 make enough progress on the main story line. (I will be the first to admit that is likely because 
 of playing it on the PC - and usually from the keyboard and not a game controller - not the best 
 set up - I've been playing Saints Row on the Xbox360, which may in and of itself make all the difference 
 in the world) .
  
  The graphics and performance of the game have been great. It's a fairly "edgy" game, but not over 
 the top. I'd definitely recommend it to anyone that enjoys these types of games. 
  
  I'm anxiously awaiting the release of Saints Row 2 next year (as well as GTA4 which I will finally 
 get to try on a non-PC format) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OracleXIII
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row could have been a really good gangsta game. Sadly, it is not. It has some issues which 
 completely ruined the gameplay and the fun for me. I suppose this game was meant to be a GTA for 
 the 360... but it lacks quality!
  The first thing that comes to my mind when I try to think what went wrong with Saints Row is the 
 story. It's very, very poor, especially when compared to GTA: San Andreas and the previous GTAs. 
 You'd expect a next-gen game to have a really good story, something that will surprise you and 
 make you sweat in tension as you find out what' s next. Unfortunately, the story in Saints Row 
 is not at all exciting. You just drive round the hood and bust caps in fools asses, so to speak. 
 Nothing spectacular.
  But the weak story is nothing compared to another issue, that made this game not worth finishing 
 for me. There is this little thing in Saints Row, its called the Respect Bar. You have to fill 
 it up in order to be able to go on new missions. You fill the bar by completing side missions, 
 like Snatch (pimpin' ain't easy) or Mayhem (you just blow things up) . And it's all good fun at 
 the beginning of the game. But once you reach the point of about 45% it's the most frustrating 
 thing on earth! The side missions get too difficult and they're boring to a level that makes you 
 not want to play any more. Filling that purple bar up is the most frustrating thing in this game, 
 makes playing real hell. It made me give up on the game, I don't really care what happens in the 
 story after 51%.
  
  The thing that saves Saints Row from being a failure is the soundtrack, and the audio player, which 
 allows you to create your own playlists with your favorite songs. There is a very decent selection 
 of rap songs in the game and it's always good to have some beat thumpin while poppin fools. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxlover09
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is starts off which you creating your character with any type of imaginable features 
 you could think of. This chracter customization is even more in-depth than Oblivion's, which was 
 very damn good
  
  Once you create your guy, it's off to join the wolrd of gangfighting, ho slapping, and lawbreaking 
 via ur induction into the 3rd Street Saint's
  
  And then the fun begins
  
  Gameplay- Open-ended and awesome, guns function like any others, but the sheer variety of what 
 you can do will make you keep coming back for more. But the Multipalyer is what really sets this 
 game apart and makes it tuly better than GTA
  
  Graphics- They are great taking into account the hugeness of the world, and look really good upclose
 
  
  Sound- A Great rap/hip-hop soundtracks, and all the voiceovers sounds jsut right, and ramming ur 
 car into a hooker has never sounded mroe real
  
  Value- For $60, you're definetley getting your full money's worth as you'll be popping this game 
 in years from now
  
  Tilt- At long last, a game that not only rivals, but beats GTA in many ways
  
  In the end if 
 you like action games where you can do as you please, then "Welcome to Saint's Row, a little slice 
 of hell" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRmRxfreakBOMB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game definitely sets the bar for open ended games. In my opinion it's even better than GTA. 
 BUT IT'S JUST AN OPINION. The controls are very sharp, the graphics are pretty good, and the gameplay 
 is excellent. Tou can customize you character's look, change his clothes and give him jewelry. 
 The story is also good and easy to follow and it will take you about 20 to 30 hours or more depending 
 on if you choose to do the side missions. This game is not for the light hearted though. They drop 
 th F-bomb about every 10 seconds. It doesn't get over done though because of the terrific voice 
 acting. The people in this game will make you laugh your *** off! The only weak part in this game 
 is the multiplayer. It's boring and bland and you'll get tiered of it quickly and be back to plating 
 single player. If you want a game that's funny, FUN and a game that'll keep you busy for years, 
 this is a game that you need to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Like I said before, Saints Row is a must have game in your Xbox360 collection. Because this game 
 contains everything that's needed to set down a good shoot game; gangsters, bling bling, cars and 
 great weapons. And if that ain't enough, you will stil got a cool online mode.
  
  Now let me start telling ya about the online mode first, because that's the greatest point of the 
 whole entire game. You will start by making a character, from the color of his cornrows up to the 
 medalion on his chain. And when you'refinished with that, ya'll be ready to f*ck up the world, 
 players and cars in more 7 type of games. From Gangsta Brawl, where you must kill anything that 
 walks, up to Co-Op, where you must complete a mission with your buddy and much, much more. 
  
  Ok, that was the online mode, now let's get back to the career mode. The career mode ain't 
 bad but it isn't as good as the online mode, because the mission are all the same, and after you 
 are gonna do a few missions and minigames you wont be likin' it that as much as in the beginnin'. 
 But however you aren't gonna do the missions you will still be atracted to streets of Stillwater. 
 Not to do misions, but just to explore the city, pimp some hoops or just tryng find and pull of 
 a glitch. That last one isn't annoying at all, it's more fun than ever. You can make your character 
 fly, walk on the sky or walk to doors just by doing glitches. Nice!!
  
  Like i said before pimp hoops. Ok this part a bit of an GTA ripp-off but is ok. Because it will 
 be much fun t roll in a pimped Justice (Rolls Royce) or an Compton (Chevrolet Impala) down the 
 streets. Beside that, you also can race in Saints Row. And if you like messin up things just join 
 a game of Demolition Derby. It's all up to you.
  
  Now the last part I wanna tell you about; The Looks And Guns.
  The game got Desert Eagle's, AK's, 
 Bazookaz, Knifes and much more, And if you realy wanna be Unique on the streets, Play the minigame 
 Hitman to earn weapons with a Gold or Platinum coating that will match you jewels. And jewels aren't 
 the only thing you can buy in tha Row. You can customize your character from the material of the 
 socks, till the wear of your Buckle and belt.
  
  Saints Row is a very good game, thanks to his Online mode and endless opportunities. If you are 
 looking for a GTA style game on your Xbox 360, this is the game for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Well Saints Row is about the rise of a gangster; it has your typical shooting and driving and kingpin 
 missions. You can also get into accident to get insurance money which feels odd and stupid, but 
 at least is something new that I have never seen in a game before. Dialog is cool, and captures 
 that street feel to it. Guns are fun and limitless for example, the rocket launcher is plenty fun, 
 but watch out with the fuzz since they like to come strong once you begin to stir things up. Character 
 models are not so great, graphics could have used a definite lift, but compared to ps2 graphics 
 they are Godly lol. Missions are fun and challenging in the end they feel complete. Side missions 
 can be a pain, but if you want all the achievement you better get to working before crying. Driving, 
 and racing for fun is great, this certain element of the game is great you can certainly tell that 
 they put real work into it. Even though, some times you can't help but crash the car just to watch 
 pretty things explode. However, the ending is odd and seemed rushed, but apart from that the game 
 was great. Now with the news about the sequel and certain exclusive footage I have seen, I think 
 GTA better watch out because the boys down at THQ are taking this clone extremely serious, is the 
 sequel continues the way its going GTA 4 might get out sold.
  
  -Gio 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaa3gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  saints row is amazing. the only bad part is ur character doesn't speak until the end. its better 
 than GTA because alot more fun to play, smoother grapichs, more chioces of guns, drive byes, stick 
 up, every thing. one i play i just go to a jewelery store of clothes store buy what i want the start 
 a stick up, if u have homies then one u do a stick up they take care of the other people then one 
 the clerk gives u the money kill them so they cant ring the alarm then have ur homies kill the 
 witnesses a clean stick-up. if u have the game look away or skip this next part 
  
  
  at the end ur guy dies on a boat. it blows up. yeah i no sucks but the games is always fun to play. it 
 may take a couple of turns but you'll get it. just try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskongen
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Gameplay : Mostly very similar to GTA series, there are some things thats newer and improved.
 
  
  Good: 
  
  + Nice variety of vehicles.
  + Descent amount of side missions and things to do.
  + Ability to buy cars, jewlerey, clothes 
 and unlock homes, Garage system with 'unlimited' car storage.
  + Nice range of things to customize your character 
  + Nice Car customization 
  + Recruiting 
 of homies
  + Many small good things
  
  Bad: 
  
  - No Motorcycles, bikes, boats, air units.
  - Cars usually have same speed limits, the fastest 
 car still is pretty slow.
  - The story is predictable, and alittle generic.
  - Somewhat short story-line
  
  
  Graphic : Graphic looks good, a bit cartoon'ish, but overall 
 good, but nothing to brag about. The use of HAVOK, enables good ragdolls into the mix, running 
 over people has never been so fun before, there is no blood however only a red haze when you first 
 hit people with guns.
  
  Sound : Large good soundtrack, aswell as unlockable tracks, Weapons sound good, could be alittle 
 more powerful. Character Voice work is pretty good, They do a good job of putting you into the 
 crime gang mood. Some recognizable actors as voice-overs.
  
  
  AI : AI is pretty straight forward, and simple, but it works, nothing to brag or complain about 
 really, sometimes they act weird but rarely.
  
  Multi-player : Good multiplayer, several game modes, and ability to buy stuff for your character 
 as you earn money from battles, and gain ranks.
  
  
  Conclusion: Great fun game with some replay value, fun to go crazy on the town and see how long 
 you survive. Worth to check out considering the price has dropped many places. Score 8.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MYSTROW1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Basically saints row is a GTA rip off but I believe they call it crime adventure action game or 
 somthing now? any way, It has a tonne of variety in gameplay as well as character customization. 
 The graphics are awsome and the sound effects where perfect the rain was great. Overall the game 
 was not all to long I finished it in about 4 days to reclaim all of still water but I am sure many 
 of you will pull it off in a week or two. The only main issue with the game was the horrible way 
 cars popped in on screen, I. e you will be driving and see a car you want to steal flip yours into 
 a Uturn and all the traffic that just passed you will be gone. On one occasion I turned my character 
 in a 360 movement and the cars in the parking lot dissapeared as they got out of site. That and 
 after GTA SA this game fails, no bikes or air vehicles and the map feels tiny in comparison. I 
 can not say much about the online play the few matches I got made me feel like there where some 
 mp issues like the damage and hosting you will empty a shotgun clip mid range and people wont die 
 yet your toast in a pistol clip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altiar11
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  so when I first popped this baby in the disc tray I said holy **** this game is amazing so the 
 detail that went thro my head was num ber first: create ur own player that is crazy second: best 
 graphics yet every shadow detail man this is going to be craze next tha gameplay dawg the story 
 was okay u a nigga and ya dont got**** so u get saved by julious or some **** like that and he 
 is the leader of the 3rd street saints and then u do a hole bun of crap for them and then finally 
 they batray u and blow ur ass up so the story is good n got tha replay ability but. the comes with 
 a hole bunch of mini games my favorite r insurance fraud and demolintion derby but there r so many 
 more. so to wrap it all up tha game is great i give it a 9.9 and it come onkine so its really good 
 see u in saints row 2!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CUZZO314
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all let me start by saying i feel like a trader to the gta franchise. This is no gta rip-off 
 saints row does what every gta copy cat couldint do make a better game than gta. First thing off 
 the bat youll reconise is the great opening scene. It makes you feel like your in the game not to 
 menchine awsome voice action it really sets the tone of the game. Then you go to the gameplay theai 
 is beautiful wheen you go to the map you will see its much easier than gta. There are alot of things 
 you can do to earn respect snd cash personaly i like to rob people safes and get it back to your 
 crib. ayou aso can customise your cars which is easier than gta and store them in your garage and 
 you don hsve to eorry about just having one or two cars in your garae you can store as mush as 
 you want. The missionsare very fun and unlike gta your gang members are smart when your in trouble 
 they got your back and if your in a car you can aim in any direction. to sum his up people great 
 gameplay, voice action, customise, ggrat cars, aim, side missions, weapons everything xbox found its 
 gta killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patchy09
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people have flamed this game for being a "clone" but it is superior in many respects. The 
 most important thing to note is the gameplay, which plays like a standard shooter. This is much 
 better than GTA shooting in that its fun, easy, and not nearly as painful. You can also shoot any 
 direction out of your car which is great. The visuals and sounds are great, including some great 
 voice acting and intriguing chracters. Another great aspect is the addition of customization, for 
 your facial features, clothes, and cars. This really helps to immerse into the game. My only complaint 
 about the game is the lack of boats, planes motorcycles etc... but these will be included in the 
 sequel. Overall a great game, that usually plays much better than GTA in all ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetd
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 4, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row shocked me. I was surprised how much I enjoyed Saints Row. After everyone describe saints 
 row as simply a Grand Theft Auto clone, I did not expect too much. But it turned out to be a whale 
 of a game.
  
  Right from the start, SR does several things better than GTA, and sets it apart. It has a manual 
 aiming system (like Halo or any other shooter) , it has a higher car camera (which allows you to 
 easily see what is in front of you) , a better weapon selection system, a better game map, and this 
 game has a character creation system.
  
  Right there, I was hooked. On top of that, its a well executed game. Above average acting (some 
 of the acting is very good) , good visuals, a physics based game engine, good sound effects, lots 
 of different vehicles, its just a solid title. 
  
  But there are some problems (mostly physics/graphic glitches) . Objects will sometimes bounce around 
 (for no reason) . Sometimes objects will disappear for no reason, and then pop back into existence 
 (including cars and bridges) . But for me, I was having so much fun with the game, I didn't pay 
 these glitches much attention. I wont not trade any of the games positive aspects to fix these 
 graphical glitches, that just don't bother me.
  
  Plus if you rush you way through the game, the main story is over much too quickly. But there are 
 lots of side mission. In fact, more than half the game is side missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burgeg
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is arguably the best game on the Xbox 360 at the moment, and no doubt if there was no 
 such thing as the GTA series before this then this opinion would be shared out by almost everyone. 
 The reason this game is getting 8s by the critics instead of high 9s is because its quite simply 
 a clear GTA rip off. The quality of the gameplay is as good as GTA, the graphics and effects are 
 better, the controls are at least as good if not better in some areas. The amount of content the 
 game has is as good as most GTAs. Not quite as much as San Andreas but lets face it, that game 
 was absolutely massive. If you love GTA you will likely love Saints Row, but may find it a little 
 too familiar to appreciate it as much as the game quality deserves.
  
  The main downside of the game is the glitches. This is officially the glitchiest game I've ever 
 played. Its glitches that actually annoy you and affect the game. The most frequently annoying 
 glitch is the one that makes your car disappear completely while you're in it. You can see yourself 
 behind the wheel but your car isn't there. This wouldn't be so bad if you could still drive when 
 this glitch happens, but your car stops in the process. A few seconds later it will return to normal 
 but if you're in the missle of a mission that few seconds can result in you failing it. Dont think 
 this is an occasional glitch either. It happens AT LEAST ONCE A PLAY! Seriously I dont ever remember 
 playing Saints Row and not hve this glitch happen.
  
  Saints Row is an average of 20 hours for the main story, plus there's loads of other stuff to do. 
 There's loads of activities to do outside of the story and you'll be looking at a 40 to 50 hour 
 game if you do everything. Plus there's plently of achievements to go for to add more play time 
 as well as collectable CDs and tags to spray. I'm 90% through the game at the moment with only 
 2 hitman activities to do and loads of CDs to collect and tags to spray. On top of this there is 
 online multiplayer. I haven't tried it yet but I'm sure this will add more fun to the game. You're 
 looking at a massive game here and its sure to not bore youfor a very long time, unless you've 
 just played too much GTA that this game will seem to familiar to you.
  
  The quality of the mission design isn't quite on par with the GTA series, but its pretty fun all 
 the same and it has some new features that are great additions to this sort of game. One is the 
 fact you can shoot at anything around you while in your car. Another is the fact that on your map 
 it gives you a waypoint to show you exacly which path to take to get where you want to go.
  
  Basicly if you own an Xbox 360 and you like GTA you have to play this game. Sure its a little 
 too much like GTA but that doesn't stop this from being one of the best games I've ever played. 
 Its glitchville from start to finish but its also an absolute riot! Get this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Projekt_Zeer-O
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row for the Xbox 360 is a game that will have gamers expecting everything you'd want from 
 a Grand Theft Auto game, and more. The graphics for Saints Row are astounding compared to Grand 
 Theft Auto III-SA. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas's graphics were good, but were not the best. The 
 sound on Saints Row is very clean cut and smooth. You can hear it well and can understand what 
 they're saying, unlike Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (for example) , where it is a bit scratchy 
 and slow. Many games have tried to re-create or duplicate Grand Theft Auto, but none have come 
 as close as Saints Row. You will find that Saints Row is very similar to the Grand Theft Auto series, 
 especially San Andreas. The player customization, the car modding, a few of the missions. But Saints 
 Row has it's own unique features.
  
  One of these unique features are the activities. 'Activities' are side missions you can do to earn 
 Respect (See below) . Some Activities may involve Insurance Fraud, Trafficking Drugs, or even being 
 a Hitman. Unlike Grand Theft Auto, where you can freely do any of the missions, Saints Row forces 
 players to earn 'Respect' before starting a mission. This can be a very long and difficult process. 
 For example, if you want to start a Stronghold (See the Stronghold section) mission, you must have 
 respect to do that first. So, you're basically trying to earn respect for respect.
  
  While this is a very aggravating process, Saints Row makes up for it... BIG TIME! Saints Row not 
 only gives you the option to do or not do the missions, it has a totally, open world environment 
 for you to explore. Saints Row sets new heights for Next Generation Gaming. You do not have to 
 unlock areas to explore them, like in Grand Theft Auto. Clothes, Jewelery, Hair Salons and the 
 other many shops are available to you after you complete the first mission, Canonized . Strongholds 
 are side missions in which a player attempts to clear out a enemy gangs' territory and base to 
 claim that base and territory for your gang, the 3rd Street Saints. There is a wide variety of 
 vehicles in Saints Row, but not enough to satisfy your needs after playing it for a while. Unlike 
 Grand Theft Auto, Saints Row has no Planes, Helicopters, Boats, etc. in it.
  
  Saints Row 2 is coming out next year, and will have many, many more options and capabilities. You 
 can customize your very own 'Crib', voice, gender, gang, and more. There will be Helicopters, Planes, 
 Boats and Motorcycles! Goto www. saintsrow. com for more!
  
  So, in all, I give this game a 8.5. Pros &amp; Cons:
  
  Pros: Enough Gameplay to satisfy gamers' 
 needs - Acceptable graphics and sound - Grabs on to the player's needs - A good variety of Vehicles 
 -Good voice acting - A lot of good action - Next Generation total Free Roaming gives Saints Row 
 it's good reputation
  
  Cons:
  
  Not enough missions - Lacks player voice acting - Has a lot of game glitches - Lacks originality 
 in some of the missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danishkhan
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:13 am PT
Review:  For years now Grand Theft Auto has been #1 in the gaming world when it comes to modern action adventure 
 games. But now GTA has met its equal......... Saints Row. This free-roaming action adventure game 
 ties (or beats) GTA. Let's start with the good. Grand Theft Auto was always a great game, but the 
 graphics were never that impressive (because of the time it took to create the city in GTA) but 
 Saints Row has a fairly sized map as well as impressive graphics! another thing is the Create-A-Character 
 portion of the game. at the beginning of the game you create your character. He can be white, black, 
 mexican, and asian. later on in the game you can customize your clothes at several different stores. 
 This was something that grand theft auto should have had. The storyline is amazing and the cast 
 of characters are amazing. My personal favorite favorite is Johnney! This game is a must-buy!
 
  
  Story/Presentation
  
  Saints Row entails the conflict between a gang-ridden city, from the view of a nameless male character 
 who is initiated into one of the smaller gangs of the City of Stillwater, the 3rd Street Saints. 
 Upon joining the Saints, their charismatic leader (played by voice-acting vet Keith David) is on 
 a mission to not only clean out the competing gangs who are destroying Saints Row (the neighborhood) , 
 but to rid the entire city of them as well. You will do battle against 3 other gangs - Los Carnales, 
 Vice Kings, and the Rollerz - as you try to take over Stillwater and lead the Saints to sole control 
 of all things criminal and territorial.
  
  Graphics
  
  Despite a load of technical flaws, the graphics in this game remain impressive. With so much going 
 on at once at times, a lot of the drops in framerate can be forgiven during the gameplay. The draw 
 distance is impressive for buildings and distant landscapes, but I would've like to see more on-screen 
 activity overall, as vehicles clearly pop-in and out and seem to spawn at short ranges. Cars and 
 vehicles can vanish in an instant, leaving drivers to appear to be driving visible cars for seconds 
 at a time.
  
  Environments are varied and each element stands out. From the Suburbs, to the college-like Apartments, 
 the Factories, Racey-alleys of the Red Light District, all the way up to the High-End Retail ritzy 
 areas near Downtown... ALL are done extremely well and boom with vibrant life and activity. The 
 lighting is superb, especially during transitions between day and night, and the weather system 
 is realistic and dynamic, although predictable.
  
  Sound
  
  While the sound is absolutely solid, it won't be winning any awards. Something these games have 
 become accustomed, and gamers look forward, to are the Radio Stations. The soundtrack in Saints 
 Row is wide with mixes of both Hip-Hop, R&amp; B, Classic Rock &amp; Punk, Metal, Alternative, Easy 
 Listening, and Classical. Each genre is supported on it's own radio station, and some genres will 
 have more than one. There is also the inclusion of a Talk Radio station with two hilarious individuals. 
 While entertaining, the amount of content is short and you will soon begin to hear the same conversations.
 
  
  The voice acting in Saints Row is a prime example of what more games need to do properly - hire 
 Hollywood voice actors that actually FIT the part. You will hear plenty of familiar Hollywood celebs 
 throughout the game such as Tia Carrera, Michael Clarke Duncan, Michael Rappaport, and David Carradine, 
 although a rare choice such as Mila Kunis will be love it or hate it. Not only is character dialog 
 filled with humor, but well executed humor. The talent chosen does a good job of not pushing lines 
 too far and lets the punchline speak for itself. Saints Row's dialog and humor, while not the most 
 original, can be downright laugh out loud hilarious.
  
  Gameplay
  
  This game is filled with activities, far too many to list here. You'll come across everything from 
 escort, retrieval ( Snatching hookers for a pimp) , and destroy missions. The game throws in a nice 
 mix of mission variety that will keep the action flowing and never dull.
  
  The side missions are what help try and set this game apart. Although they fail at doing it, they 
 are still down right loads of fun to play. Generally each Activity has 8 different levels of difficulty, 
 which a few exceptions. Some of the most well executed ones include Hijacking missions, where you 
 must catch up, steal, and return safely (without blowing up) various vehicles with various degrees 
 of protection in short amounts of time. Another fun and addictive Activity is the Injury Fraud, 
 in which the player willing tries to throw himself in front of vehicles and cause accidents in 
 a target zone to earn points and money - a wonderful companion to the game's physics. While these 
 activities can be extremely entertaining, some others can be downright frustrating.
  
  Many activities you will replay more than once, not only to gain money and Respect (your street 
 cred used to unlock missions) but because they are more fun. The Hitman and Carjacking missions 
 span the entire game and are drawn out so once they are done, that is all. However, activities 
 like Drug Trafficking and Snatch are bound to become gamer favorites. Players are encouraged to 
 participate in all activities as not only can you net some achievements, but some very nice unlockables 
 as well.
  
  Some Activities can be so random in terms of their spawns and counters that it can be enough to 
 piss the player off and throw the controller. There's nothing more annoying that to be doing a 
 routine escort mission - where you have to drive around while a celebrity and hooker get it on 
 in the back seat while avoiding the chasing press - which are difficult enough, only to be caught 
 in the middle of a gang-cop shootout and become unwillingly involved as you ram their cars... and 
 now you have the press, police, and rivals chasing you, making it almost impossible to complete. 
 On the higher levels of difficulties for activities, the response simply seems to be and endless 
 onslaught of vehicles full of enemies who love to slam into you at high speeds firing sub-machine 
 guns of which there is often no escape as your car explodes from damage. Completing lvl 8 activities 
 often involves switching to multiple fresh new vehicles to make your escape without blowing up. 
 Thankfully the game gives the player a break, as when each activity is complete, the notoriety 
 is reset.
  
  Something new Saints Row offers are Pushbacks, where at random instances rival gangs will attempt 
 to take back territory from you. You then must head over and end the attempt by eliminating a set 
 number of gang leaders in the area. Your fellow Saints will help out, and this can be an exciting 
 change of pace during gameplay as at any time an all out turf-war can break out.
  
  Whatever you do in this game, you'll need some help. At almost every point of the game you can 
 recruit fellow gang members to accompany you as you wander the streets, or go on your criminal 
 runs. You can recruit up to 3 members at once as you advance in the game, including Hommies (special 
 unlockable characters) you can call on your cell to roll with you at anytime. They can hold their 
 own, but will die a lot and are best used to draw fire away from you. If downed, you'll have 30 
 sec. to revive them an unlimited number of times, which is a nice touch. Having your crew can also 
 be an annoyance with the A. I. as sometimes they will fire upon rivals and police out of nowhere 
 and end up getting you into a fight you didn't want. Other than serving as a real-world lesson 
 to be careful who you hang with, it can at times make you dismiss your party and chose to go solo.
 
  
  Overall, the gameplay experience is solid and vast, although not perfect. Saints Row doesn't desperatdly 
 try to separate itself from being a GTA-clone, but rather embraces it.
  
  Control
  
  In simple terms the game handles very well. The inclusion of the well-experienced Havok Physics 
 engine ensures no problems on that end. All objects react accordingly and running over enemies 
 and into cars results in a proper amount of damage.
  
  The game controls like a FPS with one stick working the movement and the other the camera. There 
 is not auto-aiming and your skills must come into play. This is the best thing Saints Row offers 
 to the genre that GTA should definitely look at, as it makes control accurate and precise. Not 
 before long, gamers will begin to start tagging headshots with regular ease as they take on wave 
 and wave of enemies. Driving mechanics are simple and aiming accurately while firing is difficult 
 as it should be.
  
  The only area the game is lacking is the melee combat, which has slightly more emphasis than GTA, 
 as in the early parts of the game, ammo is both expensive and rare. The FPS seem to be rendered 
 useless as melee attacks depend on the direction your character is facing rather than in the one 
 the camera is looking... and the player model does not swing with the camera. This can result in 
 accidentally missing your target, or hitting an ally or someone else entirely. While playing Protect 
 Da Pimp in multiplayer, this is an issue for the pimp, who can only slap other players.
  
  Gameplay 9.0
  Graphics 9.5
  Sound 9.5
  Value 9.0
  Tilt 9.0
  
  OVERALL 9.0 out of 10
 
  
  The story is entertaining, but some aspects drag, and this title is shorter than most would like 
 for the type of game it is, but mainly because the game is quite enjoyable and players yearn from 
 more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haza1995
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  i love this game it is exacly like gta i also cant wait till gta 4 comes out ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBigTicket21
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 5/10
  You go on missions, nothing really happens. The plot is pretty terrible, you play as a lifeless 
 gang-banger, who somehow becomes popular and leader in the gang without ever really doing anything. 
 The shooting is pretty awful, with much less control than you'd have in real life. This game has 
 drawn a lot of comparisons to GTA. GTA is a last gen game. This game doesn't have the engulfing 
 feeling of GTA, you can't skydive. You can't fly or drive a boat. The alternate missions have no 
 connection to the main storyline, and are quite boring.
  
  Graphics - 7/10 The game looks fairly solid, but is caught up by many momentary hiccups. It doesn't 
 run at a solid frame rate, and often freezes.
  
  Sound - 8/10
  Great soundtrack, decent voice acting.
  
  Value - 5/10
  Broken multiplayer, worst i've ever 
 played. The story is short. It is a complete rip-off failure to GTA. The mini-missions are worthless.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 3/10 Bad game, this is the point where the crowd should start chanting overrated, 
 but the reviewers don't seem to see it like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jklbgdgklbnbn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  For years now Grand Theft Auto has been #1 in the gaming world when it comes to modern action adventure 
 games. But now GTA has met its equal......... Saints Row. This free-roaming action adventure game 
 ties (or beats) GTA. Let's start with the good. Grand Theft Auto was always a great game, but the 
 graphics were never that impressive (because of the time it took to create the city in GTA) but 
 Saints Row has a fairly sized map as well as impressive graphics! another thing is the Create-A-Character 
 portion of the game. at the beginning of the game you create your character. He can be white, black, 
 mexican, and asian. later on in the game you can customize your clothes at several different stores. 
 This was something that grand theft auto should have had. The storyline is amazing and the cast 
 of characters are amazing. My personal favorite favorite is Johnney! This game is a must-buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJMarra
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row was initially looked down upon as another Grand Theft Auto clone with better graphics, 
 and after it was released, some people still stick to this thought while others defend Saints Row's 
 originality. Saints Row does play very similarly to the Grand Theft Auto games, but it both brings 
 new features which makes you wonder why Rockstar never implemented it themselves, while not including 
 some features which made the Grand Theft Auto series popular in the first place.
  
  Saints Row follows a pretty basic story; join a gang, take over territories of the city, and eventually 
 take over the entire city. There are three main gangs in Stilwater, the city in which the game 
 takes place in. There are the Westside Rollerz, which are mainly composed of Caucasian and Asian-Americans, 
 and typically are dressed in blue. Then their are the Carnales, which is apparently the longest 
 living gang in the city, and is composed mostly of Hispanics and Caucasians, who are dressed in 
 red. Then there are the Vice Kings, the most powerful gang in Stilwater, which mainly consists 
 of African-Americans and Caucasians, who wear yellow. You play as an unnamed character (who you 
 can fully customize) which has been caught in the crossfire of a gang conflict, but is eventually 
 saved by Julius Little, the leader of the 3rd Street Saints.
  
  Saints Row is mainly composed of move and shoot based gameplay. There are a few different weapon 
 classes to choose from, ranging from melee objects to thrown projectiles. There aren't many selections 
 in these classes, but there's enough to keep you happy. Saints Row also introduces a much better 
 fighting system than the Grand Theft Auto games. While it may be unrealistic (only a couple punches 
 and kicks can kill a person easily) , it still is a lot of fun to have a boxing match with someone 
 who didn't like getting punched in the face.
  
  Each gun has their own advantages and disadvantages when it comes to blasting away multiple enemies. 
 For example, the .44 Shepherd, a large revolver-type gun, can usually take out a person with one 
 shot, but it can only hold six bullets and costs a lot more than the other pistols in its class. 
 But with the VICE 9, a 9mm pistol, it usually takes out people with 3-4 shots, but carries a lot 
 more ammo in its clip, and generally costs less than the Shepherd. A major weakness to gun play 
 in the game is that when you switch weapons, none of your original ammo carries into the next gun. 
 I carried the VICE 9 with me for most of the game because I was too afraid of switching my VICE 
 9 and it's 300+ bullets for a .44 Shepherd with only 12. To pick up an enemy's weapon, you must 
 run over to it and press A, which is also unfortunately the reload button. I more often than not 
 accidentally switched one of my weapons with another while I was attempting to dodge enemy fire 
 and reload at the same time. This common occurrence can become quite annoying, but it doesn't take 
 too much away from the general fun of the game's many shoot-outs.
  
  You can also drive a hefty array of automobiles in Stilwater. Unfortunately, there are only cars 
 in Stilwater, as Volition has opted-out not to include motorcycles or helicopters in the game. 
 It's a shame really, because having access to those different vehicles could have really opened 
 up some new types of missions for the player to enjoy. As stated before, there is a good many different 
 types of cars in the game, but strangely it feels like there is a little bit less that what Grand 
 Theft Auto: San Andreas had to offer. I found this strange, because with a game that only allows 
 you access to automobiles, I thought it would have a wider selection than the game it's mimicking, 
 which allowed you to commandeer cars, motorcycles, bicycles, helicopters, boats, airplanes, and 
 the occasional ATV, but sadly this is not the case.
  
  If you're not up for doing missions for the 3rd Street Saints, there are plenty of activities to 
 do on the side. Unlike the GTA games, where activities were mainly hosted in civil-service vehicles, 
 and ranged from driving a taxi cab around to helping people get to the hospital in an ambulance, 
 Saints Row's activities are criminal-based. Some of these activities are realistic crimes which 
 you can imagine happening in real life, like trafficking drugs on the streets, while other activities 
 are quirky and odd, like killing abusive pimps and stealing their hos to return to a friendly brothel. 
 These activities are level-based, starting you at Level 1 with the possibility of getting to Level 
 8. With each new consecutive level comes new challenges (and usually enemies) for you to overcome. 
 But, with more challenges comes more money and more respect. Respect works like an experience bar 
 in Saints Row. To be able to start a mission for the 3rd Street Saints, you must first fill up 
 your respect bar. While this may sound like a great idea on paper, it kind of cuts down on the 
 story a lot and really breaks up the gameplay. For example, in one mission, a person in the 3rd 
 Street Saints tells you to meet him immediately, but if you don't have enough respect, you're obviously 
 not going to be able to go to that person immediately. It might actually take a few in-game days 
 for you to meet your requirement, but when you finally get to that person and start the mission, 
 they act like it's been only a few minutes after they've spoken to you.
  
  The first activity I'd like to elaborate on is Snatch. In Snatch, you must go to a pimp located 
 on your map, kill him, and then return his hos to the brothel you're working for. After a few levels, 
 pimps start to have a lot more protection, and rival gangs will pursue you more viciously. Some 
 of these enemies even have rocket launchers! Unfortunately, the hos are completely useless and 
 are only good at telling you about how crappy your driving is after being rammed off the road by 
 an SUV while consecutively being shot from all sides by gang members with assault rifles and rocket 
 launchers. Some portions of Snatch also has you trying to take out pimps' limos, which are carrying 
 around more gang members than hos. Taking out limousines are a bit harder than just the hit and 
 run ho snatch off the street, because you must either kill the driver of the limousine, or pump 
 enough lead into it until it reaches the point where it is about to explode. The aftermath of the 
 explosion usually kills the hos, because they're like turkeys in a thunderstorm and just stand 
 there until they die. Snatch, as the description above tells, is a bit more difficult then the 
 other activities Saints Row has to offer.
  
  The next activity you can do is drug trafficking. In drug trafficking, you accompany a drug dealer 
 on their runs throughout Stilwater, selling drugs to various customers on the streets. Of course 
 the police are out to stop you, but also rival gangs want a little in on the action, so they will 
 pursue you as well. Drug trafficking is made easy because you're given a pistol with unlimited 
 ammo, and the dealer you're with drives a large SUV. This SUV can plow through most cars easily 
 and it's also fast. The SUV is also unusually better armored than other vehicles, because it can 
 sustain multiple gun shots and collisions before being destroyed. If your SUV is destroyed, you 
 can just take another car off the streets and continue on your rounds. The only downfall to drug 
 trafficking is your dealer's horrendous driving. A lot of times you will find yourself crashing 
 into a wall, just to have your dealer back up and drive into it again. While all of this is happening, 
 your car is being pelted with enemy fire from both gang members and the police. Despite the AI's 
 crappy driving capabilities, drug trafficking can turn out to be one of the easiest activities 
 found in Stilwater.
  
  However fun or easy drug trafficking can be, the Demolition Derby activity is x10 so. The whole 
 point to Demolition Derby is ramming your car into another's while boxed inside an arena. In the 
 activity, you are given a special car called the Rampage. The Rampage is a fast, yet weak car with 
 built in nitrous. If done right, with a head start and a bit of nitrous, it's possible to destroy 
 an enemy car with just one ram. To win the Demolition Derby, you either have to destroy one, two, 
 or three cars, depending on what level you're playing. Playing a game of Demolition Derby is usually 
 always based on luck. Of the majority of losses I faced at the arena, the only time I lost by being 
 destroyed was in my first game of it. Every time after that, I lost due to there not being enough 
 cars left to destroy, thus making it impossible to reach my goal. Demolition Derby is arguably 
 the best activity out of the bunch, because it not only offers you a lot of money and respect, 
 but it combines all of the best things in Saints Row into one mini-game: nitrous, explosions, and 
 rag-doll physics.
  
  The next best thing to the Demolition Derby is Insurance Fraud. Volition likes to show off their 
 usage of the Havok physics engine in this activity, because by pressing a button, your character 
 will be rendered into a rag-doll state. The whole premise of Insurance Fraud is hurting yourself. 
 This can range from tripping into brick walls, crashing into other cars at high speeds and having 
 yourself ejected from the driver's seat, to being run over by incoming traffic. For some reason, 
 you don't lose any health while doing these extremely dangerous things, but that's a good thing 
 because you're on a time limit and waiting for your health to regenerate would take too long. To 
 gain cash while hurting yourself, you must do this all in the scoring zone. After a long period 
 of time, the scoring zone will shift to a new location. Unfortunately, almost every driver on the 
 road drives if as they are having a case of road rage while playing Insurance Fraud. Car accidents 
 become more frequent while driving from point A to point B. I guess the aggressive driving of the 
 other drivers on the road is meant to help you in some way, but it turns out to be a disadvantage 
 in the end.
  
  In every game like Saints Row or Grand Theft Auto, one of the best things to do in the game is 
 to run around and cause chaos by killing people, destroying cars, blowing trains off their tracks, 
 etc. So, by knowing this, Volition created an activity called Mayhem, where you pretty much do 
 exactly what I just said in a set district of the game. You're given multiple weapons with unlimited 
 ammo, and you get bonuses for doing certain things, like using a shotgun or destroying luxury cars. 
 Mayhem gets a little easy after you're given a rocket launcher (and super easy when you get a bonus 
 for using it) , but Mayhem is still one of the more funner activities to play.
  
  And then we come to the typical activity everyone knew was coming: racing. In Racing, you do the 
 obvious... race. Racing is nice because you don't need a fast car to do. For example, if you pick 
 a slow car and go to the starting line, all of your opponents will use slower cars as well, so 
 this really evens out the competition. However, you can gain a major advantage when racing by taking 
 a slow car, but equipping it with nitrous. Nitrous can give you a steady head start in front of 
 the slower cars and can help you around those sharper turns. It almost feels like cheating, but 
 this is how the game works.
  
  Next we have the Hijacking activity. In Hijacking, you must run a particular car off the road, 
 force it's driver out of the drivers seat, and successfully make it back to your employers hideout. 
 Unfortunately, the police doesn't like you hijacking someones car, and will at higher levels send 
 helicopters and the FBI to stop you. It's strange that outside of this activity, hijacking a car 
 is extremely easy and no one really cares about it, but when you play the Hijacking activity, you 
 have the FBI tailing you attempting to kill you with SWAT team roadblocks and numerous, heavily 
 armed helicopters. Hijacking isn't too hard, if you can make it to Saints Row's in-game outside 
 confessional, which instantly removes any notoriety you had with the police or following rival 
 gangs.
  
  After Hijacking, we have Hijacking's baby brother Chop Shop. In Chop Shop, you must find a specific 
 car on the streets and steal it. No gangs tailing, no helicopters, no FBI. You just find the car 
 and take it. It's a whole lot easier than the other activities, but some of the cars that you must 
 steal are exotic and rare, or require specific customizations. While customizing cars will lower 
 your total amount of money received, it still doesn't make this activity any harder. Chop Shop 
 is just a watered down version of Hijacking and is generally boring.
  
  But if there's going to be an extremely easy activity to do, there's also going to have to be an 
 extremely hard activity to do also. This is where Escort comes in. The premise of Escort is for 
 you to take a stripper and to meet up with a famous person on the street. As the two people mack 
 it in the back seat, you're job is to keep the paparazzi out of your car's range so they don't 
 capture any footage of what's happening in the back seat of the car. For one thing, the premise 
 of this activity is just flat out stupid. Why would a famous celebrity mack it with a stripper 
 in the back seat of a car, with a driver driving at top speed to evade the paparazzi? And how can 
 the paparazzi capture any footage when the windows to your car is tinted? However stupid the idea 
 is, the paparazzi is even more so. They will go to no lengths to capture footage of the people 
 in the back seats, and that ranges from ramming your car off the road to setting up road blocks. 
 They don't even mind if you pop a cap into one of their fellow photographer's heads. As long as 
 they can get footage of the two people in the back seat of their car, anything that happens is 
 okay with them.
  
  Finally, we have arguably the hardest activity in the game: Hitman. In Hitman, you're given a list 
 of people who must be killed with a specific weapon. On paper, this sounds easy enough, but when 
 put into action, Hitman is extremely tough. First you must acquire the needed weapon, be it a 12 
 Gauge shotgun or a handful of grenades. Then comes the hard part; finding exactly where the person 
 is. When you're given the list, it tells you where the person most frequents, but not exactly where 
 they are. So you could spend many in-game days just looking for the person before you finally find. 
 On most occasions, the target isn't even in the district specified, so you must go looking throughout 
 the entire city of Stilwater for this person. It's a real pain in the neck to do, but the bonuses 
 you get for doing it really help when doing missions.
  
  But enough about Activities and on to Saints Row's shining feature, character customization. In 
 the beginning of the game, you can customize your character in any way you want. If you're not 
 too good with that kind of thing, you can select between four different pre-made character, one 
 being Caucasian, one being African-American, one being Asian-American, and one being Hispanic. 
 The character customization runs really deep, as it is possible to create a lifelike version of 
 yourself. Even after you start the game, if you don't like the way you look, you can go to a plastic 
 surgeon, and they can change everything from your eye color to your ethnicity. There are also plenty 
 of shops in the game to further customize your characters. There's a whole lot of different clothes 
 choices to choose from (and different colors for each) , or you can go to a hair salon and get a 
 haircut not originally available at the beginning of the game.
  
  Your character isn't the only thing that you can customize. At Rim Jobs, another in-game store, 
 you can fully customize your car with a variety of different options. Each car has a ton of different 
 options and modifications for you to implement, whether is be hydraulics for your delivery truck 
 or nitrous for your mini-van, the list goes on and on. This is one of the better things that Saints 
 Row did much better than Grand Theft Auto.
  
  With great customization comes the need for great graphics, and Saints Row delivers. For a game 
 of its caliber, you wouldn't expect it to have the nice graphics it shows. Cutscenes look strangely 
 realistic, with a great amount of work put into characters facial expressions and movement. The 
 water in the game, while rarely ever traveled in, looks wonderful as well. Even the clouds in the 
 sky look wonderful. Saints Row however, does have some graphical glitches, ranging from the entire 
 road just disappearing at times to multiple buildings and cars popping in and out of the screen 
 at will. These issues though rarely appear, and when they do, it is usually when you are crossing 
 a bridge into a new part of the city. On a lesser note, the car damage and physics in the game 
 are a little disappointing. At best, your cars windows can get smashed up your doors and bumpers 
 might fall off, but usually only a small dent will appear after having a full-on collision with 
 another vehicle. I expected to have my entire front section of my car completely pulverized, but 
 instead I only get a few dents here and there and the car works just fine. Even though crashes 
 and collisions only make small dents here and there, nearby explosions can really mess up your 
 car bad. If caught near an explosion, or was lit fully on fire, your car will be covered in huge 
 dents and you can watch the heat waves come off your car. It's really a pretty thing to watch and 
 makes explosions that much better.
  
  Evident in all Grand Theft Auto games is their amazing sountrack, and this is evidently where Saints 
 Row fails to deliver. Saints Row plays old songs on their multiple radio stations throughout the 
 game, and most of these songs aren't relative to the time period of the game, which is about the 
 mid-2000's. With Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, you heard a lot of songs which were famous throughout 
 the 90's west cost. Most evident is it's long selection of 90s west coast hip-hop and rap songs. 
 However, Saints Row doesn't really have any identity with these songs, and are just there because 
 it seems like thats all Volition could get their hands on. Aside from their sub-par soundtrack, 
 Saints Row delivers an astounding amount of voice acting which is nearly on the level of Grand 
 Theft Auto's. Saints Row features A-B List celebrities with their voice acting, which includes 
 voice actors Freddy Rodriguez, Keith David, and David Carradine. A few of these voices sound uninspired, 
 or like they're just doing it for the money, but it's still great just the same.
  
  Saints Row is a game that will last you for quite some time. There's a short main storyline, which 
 includes 36 missions, and then you have of course loads of activities to choose from. Then we have 
 the online component to Saints Row, which is almost as fun as the basic game itself. There a couple 
 of different modes to choose from, and it's all great fun if you're suited with the right people. 
 Unfortunately, Saints Row is filled with more annoying 12 year olds then Halo 3 is, and now this 
 time they're trying to act gangster . There is occasional lag, but when fitted with the right people, 
 online play can become quite a memorable experience.
  
  Overall, Saints Row is just a lot of fun to play. It's not the next Grand Theft Auto, but in terms 
 of clones, this is the best thing you've got. Also, with a little tweaking here and there, and 
 possibly a better soundtrack with more celebrity voice actors, Grand Theft Auto might finally have 
 a worthy contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stanger277
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the GTA murderer, it has a good physics engine, and the audiologies is a little more 
 creative. The features such as: hostage, snatch, escort, and other activities give you the freedom 
 to break away from the storyline and do other things. They could have put in maybe motorcycles 
 or helicopters, but i guess they were saving that for the sequel, saints row 2. My only real complaint 
 is that every sentence has an f-bomb in it. They can take any sentence and turn it into something 
 you will have too turn down while (god forbid) your son or daughter watches. Overall it is a great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick2569
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is loads and loads of fun. the shooting and all of the killing is so awsome in the game. 
 i mean i know it looks like grand theft auto alot but its still an awsome game. it is a really good 
 game for me to play till grand theft auto 4 comes out in march of next year. well the graphics 
 are pretty good and all the music in the game is pretty pimp. i think its pretty kool that the 
 game has bout 230 songs in it. all the stuff u can do in the game like get into cars with nitro 
 in em i think is awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memesmugy
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  baicley 1 of teh best games ever made, can customize ur guy there are many things to unlock and 
 mney things to do. the city is in good design and vary interactual and u can do lots of stuff, 
 the missions are fun to do and the game has a really good story line i hope they make a number 
 2, better then any GTA ive ever played, it tells you how to vdo things and where to go in a way 
 that you are not just wandering around not knowing what to do and where to go, when you set a waypoint 
 on the map there are arrow type things that tell you how to get there, a really good thing is that 
 if you are with somebody n they die you can revive them, when you buy clothes or jewlery it moves 
 and swings like it would in real life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arroliga
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game via Gamefly to just get it out the way . I had heard rave reviews about it but 
 was never really enthused about playing it. So I decided to give it a whack to see what all the 
 fuss was about.
  
  The praise is about all the things this game does right that GTA has done wrong or mediocre-ly. 
 The ragdoll physics, shooting mechanics, &amp; presentation are best in class for GTA style games. 
 Yeah, that means SR is better than GTA, imho. From the moment you start the game and start swinging 
 at innocent by-standers you start to notice this game is awesome. The way your character, which 
 you must create using 100s of customizable parts, looks as he's whaling on that poor schmuck is 
 just amazingly realistic. It feels great too: the ragdoll physics make every punch &amp; kick (there's 
 a dedicated kick button) painfully pleasing to watch as your victim flails around like a, well, 
 ragdoll. :P A few minutes later into the story when you start packing heat &amp; start capping 
 foos you cant help but fall love wih this game. By the time you reach your first major mission, 
 Insurance Fraud you KNOW this game is special &amp; not just another sandbox game. I won't go on 
 describing it. You really have to experience this game for yourselves. A true gem among a class 
 filled with tired imitations. 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick022
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  I really liked this game. I've spent alot of time playing GTA and I think Saints Row puts a pretty 
 fresh spin on the genre. The part that I really enjoy is that you aren't just one person shooting 
 up a town, you have support and back up in the form of the 3rd Street Saints. And if you want to 
 be a one man army, you can do that too. The game is smooth and has great transitions from action 
 to cut scenes. It really has just about everything you can ask for in a game like this one, it's 
 challenging, fun, and it definately keeps your interest. It's pretty addictive. Overall I would 
 definately recommend this game and I'm really looking forward to seeing what they do with it in 
 the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukonCornelius6
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a wanna-be Grand Theft Auto. It tries to do what GTA has done so well for the past 
 3-4 years and hits with some of it and fails at other parts.
  ---Graphics:
  Graphics are really solid. Gameplay and cutscenes are really good. They are definietly next-gen. 
 Besides it's looks, you can go into many, many buildings without loading times.
  ---Gameplay:
  Controller set-up is great and the targeting system is far supperior to the GTA 
 auto aiming system that we've become accustomed to. This interface is good and clean. I really 
 like how your side mission goals can be attrached to the HUD also.
  ---Replay-ability:
  There's alot to do here. Once the main missions are finished (36 missions) there are 9 activities 
 to do, co-op missions, CDs to collect, enemy gang tags to spray paint over, and multiplayer. The 
 main story portion of this game is very enjoyable and challenging, but the activies and other side 
 missions are very repetiive and boring. There are 3 or 4 locations for each of the 9 different 
 activites and to finish each location you have to beat level 8. So, if my math is correct that's 
 somewhere in the 200-215 levels of additional missions.
  
  The multiplayer, on the other hand, does not add any additional replay-ability because it's so 
 poor. It seems like it was just tacked on to say they had multiplayer. It's not fun. The only reason 
 you'll see people on it is because of the achievements.
  ---Sound:
  The voice acting is pretty bad. The whole gansta theme gets way out of hand and it just gets ridiculous, 
 but it doesn't take away from the gameplay too much. The sounds of the vehicles, explosions, and 
 weapons are ok, nothing ground breaking, but ok. The soundtrack is just flat out bad. The original 
 songs are just obnoxious. I rode around with the talk station on for a while, but that soundtrack 
 is very limited, so for most of the game i just turned the radio off. That's where you can really 
 see the difference between this and any GTA game. The extra care for the soundtrack in GTA made 
 me not mind getting into a car with any station on, but not here in Saints Row. Achievements:
 
  You work for your achievements here. Don't expect a ton of freebes here. There are tons of them 
 too, so you'll work a long time for 10 or 20 points.
  
  Overall:
  Even though the story, soundtrack, and voice acting are below par, the graphics and gameplay are 
 there. This game could have been great, but it fell short in those areas. I hope Saints Row 2 will 
 be better in these ares. I do recommend this game to anyone needing a GTA fix, but I do advise 
 them to not expect GTA quality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion-King
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  As you may be aware many people are saying Saints Row is a rip off of the GTA titles.
  
  This is because of three reasons. 1) The gangsters. 2) The cars. 3) General gameplay.
  
  So 
 what, it has its similarities. You can't expect GTA to be the only game of its type. It is like 
 the game Skate. People are saying it is a rip off of the Tony Hawks titles. This is not true. It 
 is just because the games are similar. You don't have one type of game that has no rivals. People 
 who talk about rip offs don't know much about gaming.
  
  Anyway, Saints Row. I may as well compare this game to GTA whilst I'm reviewing it, because it 
 is its closest competitor.
  
  So, the first thing on Saints Row is character creation. A feature which, surprisingly GTA doesn't 
 have. Many games include this feature now, and Saints Row does a nice job of it.
  
  The gangs of Saints Row are so much better than in GTA and I am sorry this review is getting unbelievably 
 biased but I can't help it. The gangs have their own main characters which play a major part in 
 the storyline.
  
  Saints Row has loads of side missions. There is Hitman, Escort, Snatch, Chop Shop, Drug Trafficking 
 and many others.
  
  As you progress through Saints Row, your neighbourhood will get attacked at some point. You must 
 rush to your hood and defend it. You can then also attack other hoods and try to take them over. 
 Once a gang has no hoods left they are waste .
  
  You can customize cars, your clothes, even your own face, (you actually have to go to a plastic 
 surgeons to change it) . Things like that give the game a nice feel to it, something you can only 
 experience by playing it. This game is so much different than GTA I can't explain it well in words. 
 You will have to go out there and buy it.
  
  Happy Gaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushallya
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  It's a mixture of GTA and Crackdown, even before the game was even released before it's time it's 
 a fun and entertaining game that all ADULTS can play. I stress Adults. When it first came out I 
 rented thru Gamefly. com and beat the game without stressing the Achievements and it was a total 
 blast. Every gamer for XBOX 360 should own this game and enjoy playing it. I don't think there 
 should be any reason why Saint's Row should get any lesss than a 8.0 score rating. If anyone disagrees 
 they should just play the game for themselves, and they too will see Saint's Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkkend
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Usually most sandbox type games that have to do with gang activity, mischief, drugs, killing, and 
 just having fun with things you could never do in real life never are as good as GTA, well if your 
 still in that mind set than you must have not played Saints Row. Even though when it comes to gameplay 
 GTA still holds the crown since almost every GTA game has had a good history and everyone can't 
 wait for the next. Well SR has a pretty good story line, and the gameplay is great. One of the 
 things I liked about this game that they didn't have in GTA is you can hold up any store whenever 
 you want (unless you've already held it up and haven't waited a waited a while for the store to 
 get money back) . The graphics are pretty good there are some parts of the game when your playing 
 were you'll be like man, that looks great , you probably could never say that in any GTA title. 
 Unlike GTA your character gets jumped into the saints a underdog gang that's trying to take over 
 the city. Anywho you can get some of your fellow gang buddies to come with you when your on the 
 street, eventually the number of allies you can ave with you increases. This is really good when 
 your going into a gang fight or have heat from another gang on you, it's always nice to know that 
 you have someone to lean on don't you think. One thing I liked about the game is when you start 
 to take over more and more territory there are more of your gang members walking around the streets 
 which is great when your running from the cops because they'll take care of the cops and start 
 a an almost war with the cops (at least until you die) . That can be pretty fun killing every cop 
 that comes in your territory and snatching there ammo, you can do it for hours. This is a great 
 game that everyone on the 360 so at least play or own, if SR keeps the good games they might even 
 be good competition with GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chr1s_Stylez
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I must say i was a little skeptical about purchasing this game as all the hype around it made me 
 think it was just simply a GTA rip off. Well if your in the same boat i would say just buy it damn 
 it! as you'll be as surprised as i was. The game graphics are much better than say San Andreas 
 and the fact you get to explore the whole map straight off the bat is a nice feeling. The glitches 
 in the game are there but i've been playing for nearly 30hours and the only one iv come across 
 is where i was driving round the hood and out of nowhere the car just vanished leaving myself and 
 a homie driving thin air, even that wasnt to bad as it was a bit amusing. the three stories are 
 good, keeps the game interesting and the side missions are also entertaining. the real plus is 
 the multiplayer feature, which in my opinion is what the GTA series lacks, but who knows GTA IV 
 might surprise us. all in all though the game has massive replay value and is well deserved of 
 being called a Classic in anyones 360 library , Very nice, i like!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhIt3_GrIm
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  Ugh, I am so sick and tired of hearing people say Saints Row is a rip-off from the popular GTA series. I 
 mean, come on, seriously it's not even the same!
  
  Besides, does anyone think Duke Nukem was a rip-off from Doom !? No, they don't!
  Does anyone think 
 Halo is a rip-off from Red-Faction ?NO!!!
  Is Star-Craft a rip-off from War Wind !?!? NO!!!
  Need For Speed VS Project Gotham 
  Army Of Two VS Gears Of Wars !?
  World Of Warcraft VS EverQuest 
 VS City Of Heroes !?
  
  NO NO NO NO NO!!!
  Jesus Monkey Balls stop saying Saints Row is a rip-off!
  The game is freaking GREAT so quit B****ing 
 and play it you damn fools! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkelf505
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 30, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  I know I know, everyone loved this game. And I am late in my review of it. I tried to play this 
 game on and off several times. First, I will say, the graphics are excellent. The character customization 
 is excellent. I have made three different characters, and they all look very very different, and 
 exactly how i wanted them. There are some really funny story elements in this as well,
  
  Those are the good points. I found the game repititive, and after a while, quite dull. I am one 
 of those rare people that never played GTA, and I will admit I usually play RPG's and First person 
 Shooters. So, this was a trip down a different road for me. It felt like you were doing the same 
 basic mission types over and over. The combat felt repititive, and button mashing definitely came 
 to life.
  
  The game was not horrible, but it definitely was enough enough to keep holding my interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeTheFunk
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  If like me you enjoyed the GTA series from it's begginings (time limited demo, killing Hari Krishna's) 
 you'll load up this game full of excitement and probably play it for a day having a great time 
 then never pick it up again. It has everything that you thought really mattered in Vice city and 
 Liberty Island and the gang violence and side missions from San Andreas , it's presented well with 
 lame characters and a bland and insipid story line which I assume must be long as it's practically 
 impossible to die in this game, and it took me months to complete San Andreas.. Having said that 
 I stopped playing after a day so it might get harder as you get to the other islands. The graphics 
 are crisp and probably superior to the GTA series and most other sandbox shooters I know of, they 
 do the trick when your on mayhem missions trying to kill everyone or steal hookers off the street. 
 It has no soul, for all the chat radio, voice over's and plotline that is presented with good intentions, 
 it fails to capture you with any clever humour, there's no great leading man or half interesting 
 enemies and it's all been covered in San Andreas to a completely different level except it was 
 nice and sunny, Vegas was nearby and you had airports etc. All in all it's great and if I was 15 
 I'd probably love it the same way I loved the original GTA when i was that age. I suppose retailers 
 are stricter on selling rated games these day's, but if you are in fact over 18 you won't play 
 the single player more then one sitting, you need more to engage your brain, you've at least played 
 San Andreas. You'll think the multi-player is cool for about an hour until you realise your getting 
 spanked by a bunch of angry teenagers with microphones, and breaking voices trying to emulate the 
 character's actions with words I don't even understand.. classy stuff. I give it a 5 because it's 
 not good unless you're young or need corks on your forks, But it iss too good to be bad, kind of 
 like; West Ham last season or Danii Minogue or that 3rd Terminator Movie. Buy it for a tenner or 
 get a girlfriend or something, anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok, for anyone who's read my reviews for GTA, you'll know i hate the game. There, i said it. I HATE 
 GTA!! With that being said, i never gave this game a second look, but after trying the demo, quickly 
 bought the full game. So, why do i like Saint's Row, yet hate GTA? There's 2 main reasons: graphics, and 
 playability.
  
  Graphics in Saint's Row, while nothing ground breaking, are so much better than GTA. While graphics 
 really aren't a main concern for me, those of GTA were just bad.
  
  The main reason though, Saints Row just has better playability, the missions are more thought out. 
 Sure some missions are very similar to those of GTA's missions, they're more flushed out in SR. 
 With the inclusion of the Havok physics, there are constant ammusing results.
  
  For anyone who liked GTA, this one is a no brainer, but if you weren't fond of that game, give Saints 
 Row a try, you'll be pleasently surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOP_GUN77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  August 28, 2006 - Over the past five years, Rockstar North (once known as DMA) has created -- and 
 set -- the standard for games in a genre that, for lack of a better term, are Grand Theft Auto 
 or GTA games. Some might call the genre urban mayhem, but whatever you call it, Grand Theft Auto 
 III created a genre, the same way Castle Wolfenstein 3-D and Doom did with first-person shooters. 
 Thus, at least right now, every game that competes in this genre competes directly with any one 
 of the GTA games, all of which have raised the bar in videogame production, theme maturity and 
 language, open-world design, and lastly, production cost (they're expensive games to make) . That 
 is, until another developer does it better than Rockstar. Volition's Saints Row is the newest contender 
 on GTA grounds, following all three GTAs, Activision's True Crime, Sony's The Getaway, EA's The 
 Godfather, etc., and it's both a ballsy, brave, fun game while simultaneously being guilty of the 
 heaviest degree of copy cat-ism, me-too derivation, and just-plain over-doing it.
  
  Saints Row, however, portrays Volition (The Punisher, Red Faction 1 &amp; 2, Descent: Free Space) 
 as an erudite student of the genre. This next-gen, open-world action-shooting-racing game solves 
 numerous problems born in GTA, and the Champaign, Ill.-based studio has whittled away at the concept, 
 forming a highly polished design that plays well, feels good, and that functions smoothly and with 
 great ease of use. Saints Row is not only a 30-40 hour single-player game with a smart progression 
 system, a breadth of engaging missions, and tons of car and character customization, it's the first 
 game in this genre to successfully negotiate online and multiplayer waters, including online and 
 SystemLink co-op functionality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frenzyd109
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row for the xbox 360 is a solid RPG, but story is a little repetitive. Character Customization 
 is so much larger than GTA, and much more creative. The graphics are phenomenal (yes phenomenal) . 
 It fits in well with the other 360 games. the few flaws with graphics are: being able to kick through 
 walls, It rains through buildings, loading times can't keep up. Although they aren't enough to 
 keep you from enjoying the game. The weapons choice is medium in size, but could be better. The 
 story is creative, but short and can get repetitive. This game is fun and great for wasting time, 
 but leaves you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoMoBaZZe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  The game is funny to play and have some cool achievements, most of the activities is fun and little 
 unrealistic... but you will gett bord of that.
  It is lots of bugs in the game but most of them is just funny or helpfull.
  The graphics isn't 
 the best but bether than GTA san andreas and Vice City and GTA 3, The city is cool and much too 
 se but also kind'a small, but it works.
  It's lots of cool guns you kan buy and gett after completing some activities, my favorites is Gold 
 Plated GDHC .50 and M4.
  It isn't other vehicles than cars in the game that is a minus because I like motorbikes, but it's 
 many cool cars two of the cars I think is best is FBI and MAG! If you like GTA you will like this 
 one too, But GTA IV looks like it's going to be much bether than Saints Row tough. But you might 
 wanna try Saints Row any way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knew Volition was taking the risk that all developers take when attempting to challenge 
 the Grand Theft Auto Series' hold on the Free-Roaming Gangsta 3rd-Person Action genre. Many games 
 had tried before to cash in on GTA, and very had any success at all. While the speculation about 
 which next-gen console GTA IV would land on built up last year, Saints Row slowly picked up steam. 
 The once Ugly, choppy, possible 360 launch title with generic gameplay label it held has since 
 been removed over the development time, and the end result is a vibrant and addictive game that 
 will more than give GTA fans something to hold them over until next fall. Despite loads of technical 
 flaws, it overcomes a lot in a genre where GTA is the sole champion to move into the spot of No. 
 1 Contender.
  
  Story/Presentation
  Saints Row entails the conflict between a gang-ridden city, from the view of a nameless male character 
 who is initiated into one of the smaller gangs of the City of Stillwater, the 3rd Street Saints. 
 Upon joining the Saints, their charismatic leader (played by voice-acting vet Keith David) is on 
 a mission to not only clean out the competing gangs who are destroying Saints Row (the neighborhood) , 
 but to rid the entire city of them as well. You will do battle against 3 other gangs - Los Carnales, 
 Vice Kings, and the Rollerz - as you try to take over Stillwater and lead the Saints to sole control 
 of all things criminal and territorial.
  
  Essentially, you will take on the 3 other gangs in the form of 3 separate stories as you engage 
 in acts of theft, violence, and larceny against your rivals. While it gives you loads to do throughout 
 your 35-40 hour rampage of the city, it does create a slight narrative problem. All 3 stories surrounding 
 each rival gang are entirely separate from each other. Not only does it mean that each gang can 
 be taken on one at a time, but also implies that you must. Each story attempts to be as entertaining 
 yet engaging as possible (although fans will find one gang's storyline much more entertaining than 
 the others) , but being able to juggle all 3 gangs at once not only creates a few gameplay problems, 
 but detaches the player from the overall turf-battle experience, as you will have to recall over 
 and over the current events ocurring with each story progression. Taking on one gang at a time 
 is easier and simpler. It would've been more than nice to see some other forms of interaction between 
 the other gangs (as the opening cut-scene would depict) instead of this 3rd Street Saints vs. Everyone 
 Else concept.
  
  Characters are wildly creative, and wonderfully voice acted. Taking a page out of GTA's playbook, 
 Volition went straight to Hollywood and hired some not only recognizable but talented voices that 
 fit the bill perfectly. Every character involved in each storyline in the game has their own unique 
 style, look, and flair. Some are instantly forgettable, but many will become instant fan favorites. 
 While it may not exactly be of the same caliber as the GTA series, the production values of Saints 
 Row are still very high and vast for a game of this scope.
  
  Customization is not only wide in Saints Row, but insanely fun. The character creation seems as 
 deep as that of The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion as you can manipulate your entire character's face 
 to look like anyone you can think of. It's also very user friendly and un-intimidating, which is 
 a plus for casual gamers. You can customize your character right down to the very clothes they 
 wear, hairstyles, and tattoos on their bodies. While we appreciate the attention to detail, it's 
 not hard to wonder why Volition seemed to stop just short of the goaline. The clothing and hair 
 options, while brilliant, are far to slim and many players will quickly be wishing for more.
  
  Customization also continues to one of the game's many vehicles (60+) and will suck up hrs 
 of your time as you start a collection. Vehicle can be modified with different paint schemes, rims, 
 off-road kits, hoods, bumpers, body kits, and convertible mods depending on the make of the vehicle. 
 Car modification is not only fun, but surprisingly addictive as you'll begin to take pride in the 
 vehicles you acquire and spend a great deal of your hard-earned money along with it. Over 100 vehicles 
 can be stored in your garage, which can be accessed from multiple locations. It's also a very nice 
 touch that you will encounter all types of vehicles while roaming the streets - from the worn out 
 beaters that would appear to barely even run, to the flashy old-school low-rider driving down the 
 road by a pedestrian you're just itching to relieve from ownership.
  
  One area where Saints Row takes a huge left hook is its Performance. This game will suffer from 
 some regular periods of slowdown, pop-ins, and frequent crashes. At times, entire vehicles and 
 roadways will disappear for a second or two. The framerate frequently dips to the sub-30 range, 
 and can absolutely be atrocious in multiplayer. Crashing also occurs randomly, so it is important 
 to save often and use multiple slots, which you can do at any time you're not in a mission. While 
 the patch helps to address this issues, some problems still remain.
  
  8
  
  Graphics
  Despite a load of technical flaws, the graphics in this game remain impressive. With so much going 
 on at once at times, a lot of the drops in framerate can be forgiven during the gameplay. The draw 
 distance is impressive for buildings and distant landscapes, but I would've like to see more on-screen 
 activity overall, as vehicles clearly pop-in and out and seem to spawn at short ranges. Cars and 
 vehicles can vanish in an instant, leaving drivers to appear to be driving visible cars for seconds 
 at a time.
  
  Tearing is also a plaguing issue, and becomes an utter nuisance in multiplayer. As the performance 
 drags, you'll see noticeable tearing along the textures ove the games environments and roadways. 
 Combined with an online multiplayer that already suffers from perfomance issues and lag, multiplayer 
 can become a pain for those not willing to fight through the hitches.
  
  Environments are varied and each element stands out. From the Suburbs, to the college-like Apartments, 
 the Factories, Racey-alleys of the Red Light District, all the way up to the High-End Retail ritzy 
 areas near Downtown... ALL are done extremely well and boom with vibrant life and activity. The 
 lighting is superb, especially during transitions between day and night, and the weather system 
 is realistic and dynamic, although predictable.
  
  Character models are stunning and very well animated. However, you can't help but notice how some 
 characters received a lot more attention than others. While the characters of the story mode are 
 wonderfully crafted, much can't be said for the common folk. This is a vibrant city and with so 
 many people walking around at all times of the day, it's a shame that there are so few models and 
 that seeing 5 or 6 of the same character at once is a regular occurrence. This becomes particularly 
 apparent during the game's Hitman Missions where you can see the target spawning multiple times 
 in the same small radius.
  
  What the graphics lack in characters, they make up for in vehicles. Cars can easily become a center-point 
 of the visual feasts. You'll see all different ranges in terms of texture quality, paint jobs, 
 and reflections for customized vehicles. The damage and physics are amazing, to say the least. 
 Cars accumulate damage in various degrees, and that damage is part specific. Tires become flat, 
 paint becomes scraped, fenders dented, bumpers warped and removed, doors broken... or sometimes 
 the part is just gone for good. Explosions and vehicle shrapnel is realistic and unpredictable 
 due to the Havok Physics engine, and flying burning debris can actually hard characters.
  
  If you are able to see through the abundance of technical flaws, you will find one impressive looking 
 game for it's scale. Taking a look at Saints Row in action raises the eyes of gamers everywhere 
 as they begin to wonder what the next installment of GTA will entail.
  
  8.5
  
  Sound
  While the sound is absolutely solid, it won't be winning any awards. Something these games 
 have become accustomed, and gamers look fofward, to are the Radio Stations. The soundtrack in Saints 
 Row is wide with mixes of both Hip-Hop, R&amp; B, Classic Rock &amp; Punk, Metal, Alternative, Easy 
 Listening, and Classical. Each genre is supported on it's own radio station, and some genres will 
 have more than one. There is also the inclusion of a Talk Radio station with two hilarious individuals. 
 While entertaining, the amount of content is short and you will soon begin to hear the same conversations.
 
  
  The soundtrack is generally based of unknowns, but there are a few big name artists. This is both 
 refreshing and disappointing. While it's good to hear some new and relatively unheard of talent 
 not featured in the mainstream, it is after all the mainstream that most people enjoy. The soundtrack 
 is not only short, but radio stations also seem to be prone to playing some songs a lot more than 
 others.
  
  Fortunately the game provides you with an in-game audio player you can play at any time except 
 during storyline cutscenes. You cannot import tracks to into it (you'll have to settle for the 
 Dashboard) , but you can customize the player with songs purchased from the game's music store, 
 and special unlocked tracks you won't hear on the radio.
  
  The voice acting in Saints Row is a prime example of what more games need to do properly - hire 
 Hollywood voice actors that actually FIT the part. You will hear plenty of familiar Hollywood celebs 
 throughout the game such as Tia Carrera, Michael Clarke Duncan, Michael Rappaport, and David Carradine, 
 although a rare choice such as Mila Kunis will be love it or hate it. Not only is character dialog 
 filled with humor, but well executed humor. The talent chosen does a good job of not pushing lines 
 too far and lets the punchline speak for itself. Saints Row's dialog and humor, while not the most 
 original, can be downright laugh out loud hilarious.
  
  Also receiving credit are the games various minor characters that you come across during side missions. 
 These hillbillies, housewives, pimps, hookers, hippies, bums, and drug dealers are guaranteed to 
 put some smiles on your face and laughs in your gut. Where the game does suffer is the ambient 
 voicing. Random pedestrians not only sound far too alike, but will spout off the same (al-be-it 
 witty) comments over and over, and at odd times, and the term generic just doesn't do it justice. 
 At times, the words you'll hear come out of the mouths of your own and rival gang members will 
 make you frown. The lack of an expanded sound track and overly stereotypical (and at times) dialog 
 for the small roles hold this game's sound design back a step or two.
  
  8.0
  
  Gameplay
  This game is filled with activities, far too many to list here. You'll come across 
 everything from escort, retrieval ( Snatching hookers for a pimp) , and destroy missions. The game 
 throws in a nice mix of mission variety that will keep the action flowing and never dull.
  
  The side missions are what help try and set this game apart. Although they fail at doing it, 
 they are still down right loads of fun to play. Generally each Activity has 8 different levels 
 of difficulty, which a few exceptions. Some of the most well executed ones include Hijacking missions, 
 where you must catch up, steal, and return safely (without blowing up) various vehicles with various 
 degrees of protection in short amounts of time. Another fun and addictive Activity is the Injury 
 Fraud, in which the player willing tries to throw himself in front of vehicles and cause accidents 
 in a target zone to earn points and money - a wonderful companion to the game's physics. While 
 these activities can be extremely entertaining, some others can be downright frustrating.
  
  Many activities you will replay more than once, not only to gain money and Respect (your street 
 cred used to unlock missions) but because they are more fun. The Hitman and Carjacking missions 
 span the entire game and are drawn out so once they are done, that is all. However, activities 
 like Drug Trafficking and Snatch are bound to become gamer favorites. Players are encouraged to 
 participate in all activities as not only can you net some achievements, but some very nice unlockables 
 as well.
  
  Some Activities can be so random in terms of their spawns and counters that it can be enough to 
 piss the player off and throw the controller. There's nothing more annoying that to be doing a 
 routine escort mission - where you have to drive around while a celebrity and hooker get it on 
 in the back seat while avoiding the chasing press - which are difficult enough, only to be caught 
 in the middle of a gang-cop shootout and become unwillingly involved as you ram their cars... and 
 now you have the press, police, and rivals chasing you, making it almost impossible to complete. 
 On the higher levels of difficulties for activities, the response simply seems to be and endless 
 onslaught of vehicles full of enemies who love to slam into you at high speeds firing sub-machine 
 guns of which there is often no escape as your car explodes from damage. Completing lvl 8 activities 
 often involves switching to multiple fresh new vehicles to make your escape without blowing up. 
 Thankfully the game gives the player a break, as when each activity is complete, the notoriety 
 is reset.
  
  Something new Saints Row offers are Pushbacks, where at random instances rival gangs will attempt 
 to take back territory from you. You then must head over and end the attempt by eliminating a set 
 number of gang leaders in the area. Your fellow Saints will help out, and this can be an exciting 
 change of pace during gameplay as at any time an all out turf-war can break out.
  
  Whatever you do in this game, you'll need some help. At almost every point of the game you can 
 recruit fellow gang members to accompany you as you wander the streets, or go on your criminal 
 runs. You can recruit up to 3 members at once as you advance in the game, including Hommies (special 
 unlockable characters) you can call on your cell to roll with you at anytime. They can hold their 
 own, but will die a lot and are best used to draw fire away from you. If downed, you'll have 30 
 sec. to revive them an unlimited number of times, which is a nice touch. Having your crew can also 
 be an annoyance with the A. I. as sometimes they will fire upon rivals and police out of nowhere 
 and end up getting you into a fight you didn't want. Other than serving as a real-world lesson 
 to be careful who you hang with, it can at times make you dismiss your party and chose to go solo.
 
  
  Overall, the gameplay experience is solid and vast, although not perfect. Saints Row doesn't desperatdly 
 try to separate itself from being a GTA-clone, but rather embraces it. After all, what's wrong 
 with using a winning formula?
  
  8.5
  
  Control
  In simple terms the game handles very well. The inclusion of the well-experienced Havok Physics 
 engine ensures no problems on that end. All objects react accordingly and running over enemies 
 and into cars results in a proper amount of damage.
  
  The game controls like a FPS with one stick working the movement and the other the camera. There 
 is not auto-aiming and your skills must come into play. This is the best thing Saints Row offers 
 to the genre that GTA should definitely look at, as it makes control accurate and precise. Not 
 before long, gamers will begin to start tagging headshots with regular ease as they take on wave 
 and wave of enemies. Driving mechanics are simple and aiming accurately while firing is difficult 
 as it should be.
  
  The only area the game is lacking is the melee combat, which has slightly more emphasis than GTA, 
 as in the early parts of the game, ammo is both expensive and rare. The FPS seem to be rendered 
 useless as melee attacks depend on the direction your character is facing rather than in the one 
 the camera is looking... and the player model does not swing with the camera. This can result in 
 accidentally missing your target, or hitting an ally or someone else entirely. While playing Protect 
 Da Pimp in multiplayer, this is an issue for the pimp, who can only slap other players.
  
  9.5
  
  Multiplayer
  Saints Row offers online play of up to 12 players, and you can customize 
 your model in the same fashion as the story mode. However, clothing and tattoos for online characters 
 must be purchased in the online menu from cash that is only accumulated from playing online games. 
 The clothing items seem ridiculously expensive as the cash rewarded from playing (and winning games) 
 is so small that it can take hours upon hours to finally get your character the look you want. 
 This is a huge disappointment for players as you must play for long periods in order to have unique 
 character, and it feels as if the game is punishing those not dedicated. You can create Online 
 Gangs (clans) , but there's nothing special about it.
  
  The game modes are surprisingly original and in theory would be a blast. Blinged Out Ride is destined 
 to become a team-based favorite as you must earn enough money to upgrade your teams car 4 times 
 and show it off in a victory area to win. Each time the car is blown up, it loses a level. This 
 is as tactical as it gets. Protect Da Pimp is your run-of-the-mill protect the leader game, except 
 that he must either escape the game level, or the other team must all die, not just survive for 
 a certain time period. Big Ass Chains (also team based) is a collection type match where you try 
 and kill players for their chains, then return them to a drop-off point. Sounds fun right? Not 
 so simple.
  
  The ranking system in Saints Row is individually based and players earn money not only for winning, 
 but the better they play (i. e. more kills, more money earn, streaks) . This works dandy on paper, 
 but in reality it leads to a lot of jealousy and rampant cases of team-killing by some cheap players 
 who are trying to improve their rank and/or earn more money for clothing. This plagues the Big 
 Ass Chains mode.
  
  Online play overall is just sloppy. In short, lag is everywhere and I mean everywhere, there are 
 glitches where you spawn without being able to use your weapons until you die once, cars get trapped 
 in Blinged Out Ride, there is no spawn protection, connecting to game is a long and a pain in the 
 ass, and the host will often time-out. What could've been a great online multiplayer experience 
 has become a thorn in this game's side, along with a foot in it's ass with all of the technical 
 flaws that can often ruin it from being enjoyable.
  
  5.0
  
  OVERALL (not an average) - 8.5 out of 10
  The story is entertaining, but some aspects drag, and 
 this title is shorter than most would like for the type of game it is, but mainly because the game 
 is quite enjoyable and players yearn from more. Volition came flying out of the gates and overcame 
 a few stumbles to finish second in the race, but it's still very respectable. If only there had 
 been more customization options, more clothing, and more Activities to do, this game would have 
 been upgraded from very good to great! status. The story has plenty of room for an engaging sequel, 
 but the keyword for Volition/THQ to remember here is more. More cars, more clothes, more weapons, 
 more missions/activities, and more length. People like what this game is doing, and they simply 
 want more of it.
  
  Pull that off along with overcoming all of the technical flaws holding this game back, particularly 
 in the multiplayer, and you've got one helluva title. There is grand potential for a franchise 
 here that is in the position to challenge the almighty Grand Theft Auo series, and fans of GTA 
 will be right at home with Saints Row until it arrives. It's hard to pass this one up, as Saints 
 Row is a blast that never gets tired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasukas504
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Saints row may be a Grand theft auto copy-cat but wins in many ways such as Graphics Game play 
 really funny Humor used in the game and the city is Big which gives you time to free-roam a lot 
 and the Online Mode is really impressive! I give the graphics 10/10 sound 10/10 game play 10/10 
 tilt 10/10 value 10/10 saints row hopefully someday will overcome Grand theft auto and become a 
 really good seller. -------The bad!-Lack of glitches. ---Too short ----The ending doesn't really answer 
 many questions such as Did you're character survive did the 3rd street saints use you? they are 
 undercover cops!!? Hopefully saints row 2 will have answers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NakedSnake25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  For once, I don't really have much to say in a review. There's no glaring flaws in Saints Row. It's 
 very fun, graphics are good, and the online is solid. There's the occasional problems like glitches, and 
 some times you could sware you beat a mission when out of the blue one last gangster pops up and 
 caps you. And that's really all I can say honestly in this review. You should download the demo on 
 Xbox Live if you really want to know what to expect. I just can't give you a real review. But surely 
 you can tell, this game is great fun, and you will most likely fall in love with it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rx_Nightmare
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing the minuite I got home I started playing it and couldnt keep my hand off 
 of the controller. So you start out as a regular noname kid roaming the streets of stillwater when 
 all of a sudden a freak gang war emerges and youre caught right in the crosshairs. After being 
 saved by Julius Little (Kieth David) and his right hand man Troy (Michael Rapaport) You are invited 
 to join the 3rd street Saints, a small time gang consisting of multiple races, where you'll meet 
 characters such as Johnny Gat (Daniel Dae Kim) , Dex/Dexter (J. A. Q) , and Lin (Tia Carrere) , and 
 take down all of the rival gangs (Los Carnales, Westside Rollers, and Vice Kings) . The game has 
 a fairly good online where you can customize your own character with clothes purchased with money 
 earned in matches. Online has 6 game modes which are Gangster Brawl, Team Gangster Brawl, Big Ass 
 Chains, Team Big Ass Chains, Protect tha Pimp, and Blinged out Ride. One thing I dont like about 
 the game is that when in a 1v1 battle its all about who can move around like an idiot better. Youll 
 be constantly running in circles to avoid the shower of shells poured on you. The game has a large 
 lack of justice. I cant count the number of times some 11 year old joined a match with me and just 
 started team killing everyone causing us to lose the match or hacking, spamming, screaming, cheating, 
 taunting, the whole nine yards. Stuff like that should be justified by the good ol Press X to vote 
 to kick . Moving on the ragdoll physics make the game look nice and make it a heck of alot funner 
 when fooling around in nonranked matches but it does take a little reality out of the game. The 
 graphics are great and the option to lower the FPS ingame is stunning. Cutscenes have never brought 
 you closer to the game. While im on cutscenes I may as well talk about your character. Although 
 customizable, lack of character dialogue makes the game less realistic and makes your character 
 look flatout foolish. This game is the most replayable game ive seen and with the perfect achievement 
 assortment this game will have you up all night sleep all day or maybe even up all day who knows. 
 This game is a less addictive world of warcraft. Im not saying you swordfight im just saying it 
 will keep you on it for a while I got bored but then started up again when the unkut pack came 
 out which was a good way to keep the game feeling fresh. Concluding this game is sheerly amazing 
 and dont bother renting it hit up stores and jack yo kawpay 2day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikokingNL
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Well you start as a normal guy then get attacked join something blabla bla spoiler ALARM but the 
 end sucks its overall a good game but the end made me die damn i hope they fix it in saints row 
 2 not buying it but ok the only thing that saved it is the mulyplayer that is really funny gang 
 vs gang. Yeah saints row isnt bad at all its actually really good never expected that! Though it 
 is a GTA Clone its a damn good one maybe im buying saints row 2 ?? Maybe?? Maybe?? Cause it was 
 fun overall! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I picked up this game for $20 at a local mom and pop game store in my hometown and having played 
 it, i dont think i would have payed more than that. Saints Row has the spirit and intention to 
 be like GTA but sadly its nowhere near as good. The humor in Saints Row is a blatant ripoff of 
 the GTA style of humor. From the radio stations to the names of the stores, it tries so hard to 
 be funny but the jokes fall flat. Stores with names like On the Rag or Sloppy Seconds arent nearly 
 as memorable as some in the GTA series.
  The story is the cookie cutter gang warfare clash between 4 rival gangs; the saints, the rollerz 
 (yes with a Z) , los carnales, and vice kings. Basically your whole mission is to wipe out the other 
 gangs in the name of the saints and thats pretty much it. Along the way you'll do side missions 
 like pimping, drug running, and hitman jobs. They are fun and help add a breath of fresh air to 
 the city of Stillwater. The main story line however can only be moved forward by earning respect 
 which is gotten through side missions. Side missions are fun but i dont want to have to be forced 
 to do them. So far in my quest to become the ruler of Stillwater ive found the gameplay to be very 
 forgiving. Being thrown out of a car windshield and being run over several times doesnt have much 
 of a penalty and shootouts are a breeze. Even with the odds 15-1 i can still come out on top without 
 a scratch on me. Just stay in the car and run them over or shoot from the car and let it take the 
 damage for you. Health regens if you dont take damage so again very forgiving.
  Creating your character is a fun experience. Its like oblivion but with a few more options. You 
 can buy jewelry, clothes, get haircuts, tats, and even go to a plastic surgeon to change your look. 
 Same goes for cars, they can be modded practically in every way but finding a car worth dropping 
 $10k on is hard to do since most of the cars in Saints Row are econo models or junkers. The good 
 ones you can only get by going to the import shops and those can cost $500k.
  While Saints Row is a fun game and it was worth $20 i feel for anyone who payed more because like 
 the title says, this is GTA alright but only if you like the plain vanilla. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L0n3W01F
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Saints Row, famous for ripping gta off, but we do have to agree that the developers did a swell 
 job. The atmosphere is great and the game it self plays really well. The graphics are not quite 
 next generation but sure give a glimpse of things to come.
  
  The game plays almost the same as GTA or any other free roaming game of its kind. Lots of cars 
 to drive, missions and side missions (known as activities) though the bikes are missing but you'll 
 forget about this. The story line is pretty good too, lots of interesting events occur.
  
  The graphics are not too good or too bad, The character models are good, the textures are amazing 
 and the lightening and atmosphere quality is very amazing too. The only drawback here is the rare 
 occurring frame rate.
  
  There are lot of radio station to choose from, enough to satisfy your choice of music need. And 
 The voice acting is excellent.
  
  You must own this if you have a 360, 360 fans will be glad to know that its a Xbox 360 exclusive 
 and though it has its good and bad points but you should give it a try if you like free roaming 
 and a open world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Now the first thing you are going to see about this game is that is looks like GTA. Then after 
 playing it awhile you will see that it plays like GTA. Essentially this game is a copy of gta down 
 to missions and all. You play a member of a gang which is under attack by other gangs. You drive 
 around doing missions and gaining more territory. There are the standard GTA side missions and 
 finding things like cds which will unlock other songs to add to your playlist. The story follows 
 you are you take over area upon area until you have the whole town in your control. One innovation 
 is that you have to do side missions to raise up your respect so that you can do the main missions. 
 Some of the side missions are fun. In some you get to run into cars or use your car to destroy 
 things. There is your usual race missions and the driving missions and such which gives you some 
 diversity in the side missions. Now being an xbox 360 you would think that there would be no glitches.. 
 BOY are you in for it. At times when I played this game I really felt like I was playing streets 
 of ny when it came to glitches. I cannot tell you the amount of times where I was racing/chasing 
 someone and the game actually froze up and then took me out of my car. I was literally taken out 
 of the car in the middle of a mission. This game also suffers from the horrible GTA missions difficulty 
 problem. Some missions are very easy and then there are some that are ridiculous. With the glitches 
 the hard missions become even harder as you try to maunuever while slowing down or while the road 
 actually disappears. The weapon selection is standard as are the graphics. The music has all the 
 rap and stuff that most GTA games have with the exception that a lot of these songs are not known. 
 It has the standard 100% completion but I am not sure if you would want to try to get it. The game 
 has a high standard of the b. s. factor. This is when you are about to end a baord and then all 
 of a sudden something happens where are die. Get ready because it happens often. You are at the 
 end and then someone hits you or your car and its over. Tha can lead to frustration especially 
 with a game like this. The missions are not so difficult but that can be so there are times when 
 you will have to put this one down for awhile. The use of foul language is rampant in this game. 
 Another plus is that you can add memebers of your gang to join you during missions. This helps 
 for the more difficult missions but at times they tend to slow you down more than anything. Mastering 
 the ability to shoot while driving is a must as the missions later on require this. This game is 
 still a lot of fun even though there are times you are going to want to throw it out of the window. 
 It is a GTA clone and without the actual GTA on xbox 360 you can play this one until it comes out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Review: Saints Row (360)
  
  When the topic of GTA clones comes up, the thought usually sends shivers down many gamers spines, 
 because by in large most of them stink. Will Saints Row suffer the same fate?
  
  Story:
  You are a Joe Schmo fresh from the mean streets of Saints Row recruited as a survivor of a Drive 
 by Shooting by the 3rd street saints to help take back your neighborhood from the local gangs that 
 are over running it.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphically the game looks amazing, mind you that the game world is no where near as large as the 
 one featured in GTA San Andreas, but is every where as large as Vice City, and looks far better 
 than anything that has been offered in the GTA series. Characters look good, and the
  create a character mode allows you to make a realistic looking personal representation of your 
 self. I still get chuckles looking at my avatar doing things I probably would never do
  
  Music &amp; Sound:
  There is a licensed soundtrack to be had here though it is no where near 
 as good or as extensive as it is in the Grand Theft Auto Series, the music is enough to keep you 
 engaged in the game, and the music that is made specifically for the game (non-licensed) is actually 
 quite good to the point that you don't notice it being added to the mix. Though for a game that 
 is supposed to be set in modern times I would have like to hear some bands that are current and 
 not just a lot of 80's hair bands. The voice acting in Saints Row is also excellent featuring an 
 all star cast featuring the likes of Keith David, David Carodine, Michael Clark Duncan, Milla Kunis, 
 and Michel Rappaport.
  
  Control &amp; Game play:
  If you have played the GTA series than you should know what to expect here, but what really sets 
 Saints Row Apart is that they cleaned up the game play so much, that it plays smooth and seamless, 
 and makes what you were playing in a game like San Andreas, feel almost choppy by comparison. There 
 are many changes that are welcome like you can swim, but because it is not necessary to swim you 
 can instantly warp to land, and a driving system that actually feels like you are driving a car, 
 and each car handles and drives differently, and considering the amount of cars in this game that 
 is saying a lot. As fun as this game is in single player it is every bit as much fun online on 
 XBL, where you find out just how good you are at urban warfare. It should be noted that the use 
 of guns in this game is not at easy as it was in the GTA series, but takes a more practical approach 
 to the weaponry, and how it is used. What I liked the most was the RPG that actually behaved like 
 the RPG.
  
  Design &amp; Fun Factor:
  On the surface Saints Row only appears to be a GTA clone, but once you enter and start to play 
 that you realize that this is a GTA clone crafted with love and care by the development crew, and 
 everything from the excellent storylines, to the superior side missions create a wondrous, and 
 enjoyable atmosphere that I found my self coming home and wanting to play more in an almost addictive 
 state. Online play extends the life of Saints Row Immensely and provides a lot of fun that cam 
 be had while playing friends. If there is a down side it is that the game only took me a little 
 over 20 hours to beat the main story line. But what s satisfying 20 + hours it was. And the mini 
 games are far more fun, interesting and relevant to the game then they were in the GTA series.
 
  
  This is a game that 360 owners should check out, especially since the game can be purchased for 
 $30 or less. Be sure to at least rent this game, it will appeal to most but it may not appeal to 
 all.
  
  Graphics
  9/10
  
  Game play
  8/10
  
  Sound
  8/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
  
  Tilt
  10/10
  
  Average score
  9.0
  
  Saints Row (360) :
  
  Pros:
 
  Beautiful graphics
  Good mini games
  Fun multiplayer
  Addictive game play
  
  Cons:
  Gunplay is good but could be better
  City could have been bigger
  More types of vehicles 
 would be nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justinpate
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  this game burys gta 6 feet under the graphics the car explosions the physics everything is just 
 so much better then gta what do you expect from a next gen game shoot a gas station it blows up 
 hit a pedestrian he goes flipping through the air blow a car up it too flips high in the sky none 
 of this stuff happens in gta but its not gtas fault its the ps2 and xbox they just cant hang with 
 a 360 game face it this game is so highly addictive and at $30 its the best buy in the world this 
 game is the best of the best that xbox 360 has to offer right up their with call of duty and perfect 
 dark zero 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamecubefan2000
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  Now that the introductions are out of the way, Saints Row may feel like GTA sometimes, but that 
 doesn't mean that Saints Row is a rip-off. If you think that, then seriously, compare both side 
 by side. Saints Row has multiplayer. GTA doesn't. Anyway, Saints Row places you, an unknown character 
 in a gang war between the 3rd Street Saints (purple) , Westside Rollerz (blue) , Los Carnales (red) , 
 and the Vice Kings (yellow) . Basically you are picked up by the Saints who want to recruit you. 
 You then prove yourself and are canonized . So basically after that, you can walk around the city, 
 cause chaos, beat up strangers, run over mailboxes to pick up money, beat up old ladies, or just 
 buy some new clothes and weapons. Basically it's like GTA with a free-roaming city. Little secret: 
 Your character does talk at the end of each gang storyline. Just saying. Now we talk about the 
 multiplayer. The multiplayer has a lot of game modes, and also has clan (gang) support so you can 
 create a gang and invite friends to it. Protect Tha Pimp is one mode where you are either on the 
 Pimp side (protect whoever is the pimp on your team) or the Hitman side (take out the Pimp) . Team 
 Gangsta Brawl and Gangsta Brawl are basically deathmatch and team deathmatch. All in all, Saints 
 Row is a lot of fun, and it's certainly a favorite of mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R0b_3n_h00d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  this is saints row the first gta type game on the 360 it was a good thing to hold us over for awhile 
 anyway. you join the 3rd street saints- after creating your charcter with many diffrent cust's 
 you can finally make your gangster any color or race you want.
  
  gameplay- your always doing something for your gang some to support it anyways there are mini game's 
 kinda like car jacking and hitman. you can customize your charcter with any cloths and bling and 
 tat's you earn money to buy this and also gun's and ride's it's an addective game that will have 
 your attention for a long time
  
  Sound- Not bad. you can really get a good sense of the city the people can get annoying. by the 
 way this game curses alot so if that bothers you dont get this
  
  graphics- probley the biggest diffence from gta is the graphics there almost a cell shaded type 
 of bit. there very easy on the eye's and make you like the game more. the cars look very good
 
  
  Online- online is a fun fast paced race to kill everything there are many types of game types but 
 in the end your trying to kill people. there are alot of glitches tho and it can ruin the gameplay
 
  
  Overall Saints row is a fun fast paced gta Clone that will have you in your seat for a good month 
 or two but it does get old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petervenkman
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  After awhile I decided to go and rent this game, thinking that it might be cheesy, but it was a 
 pretty good GTA clone. One of the flaws of Saint's Row was the plot, there really wasn't too much 
 of a compelling plot and you didn't seem to make a connection to the characters of the game. The 
 story jumps around a lot and doesn't seem to be fluid, like you would like it to be. Some missions 
 in Saint's Row were quite memorable and exhilirating. The thing that bugged me the most about the 
 missions is that almost every time between missions you had to build respect to continue the story. 
 It's almost as if the game developers wanted us to do the side missions. Some side missions were 
 fun like Mayhem and Hijacking, but after a while it got really old. For instance, you might be 
 in a really good part of the game, like the climax, and once you finish the mission you have to 
 fill up respect to continue. This is what was upsetting the most: you wanted to find out what happens 
 next. The graphics are pretty good, but it seems you might find a little of the old graphics here 
 and there; the developers could have made them more detailed. The sound is decent but they could 
 have made that better also. What makes this different from GTA is these things: Say, for instance, 
 you want to go to nearby restaurant, all you need to do is go to the game map and plot a point 
 of where the restaurant is, and you will immediately see that there is a GPS type of system that 
 will guide you street by street to your destination// Also the explosions are pretty cool and never 
 seem to get old// The other is character customization; yes you can change clothes and your haircut 
 in GTA: SA, but the character customization is closely like the kind in The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, 
 which is good. Saint's Row is still pretty closely related to the GTA franchise. There are even 
 some noticable voice actors in tne game like Michael Clarke Duncan and David Carradine. The games 
 other flaw is weapon selection; there isn't very much variety in weapons. You have the traditional 
 handguns, shotguns, rifles, etc. , but after awhile you mess with the weapons you seem to want 
 more. Another flaw is the car selection; most are cheesy, but you may find the coveted Chevelle 
 or the sports car here and there. Saint's Row still is a good game but doesn't revolutionize or 
 dramatically change the type of gameplay that you'll find in GTA. Rent It First. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman5100
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a rip off of GTA, just different story, different place, and different characters, 
 but the set up is the same... and thats ok. I find the game to be funner than GTA, however thats 
 based on opinion. The game starts as you creating your very own gang member and as you are trying 
 to pick up a ho a shooting goes down and before you are killed by one of the gang members for being 
 in the wrong spot at the wrong time, you are saved by the members of saints row and then you are 
 recruited into the gang. Throughout the game you do missions and raise hell throughout the city. 
 There is a variety of missions and weapons and cars and ways to kill people, and the graphics are 
 extremely well. However, finding the glitches is really easy. The glitches are not hidden as much 
 as they should be, but they do make a great laugh when funny. The game is definately a game that 
 should be played... or at least given a chance, just dont say no until you try it... even if you 
 have to rent it first! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kezarooney
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  Saints Row i one of the best games i have played in my life the way it has been designed it is 
 very like grand theft auto. The gang warfare is very very good but it becomes anoying when your 
 turf is under attack very two minutes and a bit hard to regane the turf but when you try and do 
 an activity the phone rings you answer it it interupts your activity.
  The cars are nice but the cars look like real cars but named differently but i like how you can 
 choose to tune up your car and even have hydrolics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: habsfan21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Honestly, I liked Saints Row better than Vice City. San Andreas is hard to beat, but will be by 
 GTA 4.
  
  Some people say THQ took advantage of Rockstar's downtime during GTA4 and Table Tennis to put out 
 a game that would only make them money because it gives GTA lovers something to play in the mean 
 time...
  
  BUT! now it's set it's foot down, and might even challenge GTA for top spots in GTA style games. 
 Saints Row has a 2nd installation coming out maybe 6 months after GTA4, which is good, because 
 it'll give GTA fans time to own up Liberty City and move back to Saints Row.
  
  But i digress...
  
  Bads in Saints Row aren't easy to find, at least for me.
  
  Goods, 
 of course are easy to find :D Let me use old style bullets to name them... Only because i feel 
 like it...
  
  * Explosions.. -- they are insane!
  * Rag Doll Physics -- greatest thing ever for this game, hopefully GTA can top it off
  * Story 
 Line -- Complicated it may be, but fun none the less
  
  Alright, I'll stop there...
  I haven't played in a while because of NASCAR 08 coming out, but i'll get back to it...
  I'm 
 looking forward to Saints Row 2 because of the amazing first impressions I got off of this game..
 
  
  Thumbs Up to THQ and Volition! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Horrortot1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  This is the first free roaming GTA style game for next gen console's. This is also one of the best 
 games i have ever played. Due to the title being for Xbox-360 and not the PS2 i think having the 
 upper hand on a better console, they have taken full advantage of the next gens capabilities. This 
 game is basically the same as GTA San Andreas and you did'nt see much of a new story, apart from 
 when you start to play the side missions. This is one of two major improvements from GTA. All the 
 side missions are really fun and entertaining to play - pimping, insurance fraud. Unlike some of 
 GTAs - taxi driver, garbage man? The second improvement was the online play, which after about 
 2 years of playing i still find a lot of fun to pick and play. You are able to play 4 styles of 
 game basic game gang brawl, protect the pimp, chain gang and blinged out ride. All these games 
 consist of what is in the game but you do it all with your friends.
  
  GTA is my one of my favourite games of all time so i thought it was smart move to make a copy of 
 an already popular style of game, and then bring it to this generation and see what they could 
 do with it. I just wonder what GTA 4 has is stock for us now, maybe we will find a copy of Saints 
 rows improvements? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ModBox369
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Saints row is a great game online and off line personally i prefer the off line part of this game 
 but i also had hours of fun online both of theses modes give you the player a great deal of freedom 
 in the game by choosing your own players clothes ear rings sunglasses and even your players skin 
 color hair color and everything you can think about personalizing this great shoot em role play 
 i spent absolutely ages playing this game ive put this game down as Guilty Pleasure because to 
 be honest the best thing about the game is killing poor civilians that randomly through abuse at 
 you so of course the only thing to do is blow there head off lol this game is just pleasure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigb89
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The game centers on the player, a newly recruited member of the 3rd Street Saints. The Saints are 
 a gang that are coming under attack from three other gangs dominating the city of Stilwater (based 
 on Detroit and Chicago) . With the player's help, the Saints attempt to fight back and take over 
 the city, one neighborhood at a time. The city of Stilwater consists of many different districts 
 as well. Some districts are characterized by violent gang activity, due to the proximity of gang-controlled 
 areas to the districts.
  
  Since Saints Row was largely inspired by the Grand Theft Auto games, its gameplay is structured 
 similarly, consisting of elements of a third-person shooter and a driving game, affording the player 
 a large, open environment to explore. On foot, the player's character is capable of walking, running, 
 swimming, climbing and jumping, as well as utilizing weapons and basic hand-to-hand combat. Players 
 can steal and drive a variety of automobiles.
  
  The open, non-linear environment allows players to explore and choose how they wish to play the 
 game. Although storyline missions are necessary to progress through the game and unlock certain 
 content, they are not required, as players can complete them at their own leisure. When not taking 
 on a storyline mission, players can free-roam and create havoc (drive-by shootings, robberies, 
 etc.) . However, doing so generally attracts unwanted and potentially fatal attention from the authorities. 
 The more chaos caused, the stronger the response from the police.
  
  The game, although very similar to the Grand Theft Auto series and its open-world format, has included 
 some minor gameplay elements which serve to differentiate itself from the GTA games. First, should 
 a player ever fail a mission in Saints Row, the option of instantly retrying the mission is given 
 to the player, instead of having to drive back to the point in the city where the mission originated 
 from. Saints Row also does not revoke the player's weapons if he dies or is arrested. In addition, 
 there is no auto-targeting with weapons, as weapons are aimed freely by the controller's right 
 analog stick, and by default, a player can drive-by shoot 360 degrees from a motor vehicle. Weapons 
 are selectable from a one-touch inventory system, rather than toggling through each weapon.
  
  Activities and respect system
  
  The player can also partake in a variety of side missions 
 referred to as activities, ranging from street racing, pimping, carjacking, robbery, drug trafficking, 
 kidnapping, and even insurance fraud, in which the player earns money for self-inflicted injuries. 
 Completing such activities helps players earn respect throughout the various districts of Stilwater, 
 as well as granting special abilities (ie. more hit points, more effective weaponry, etc.) The 
 player's attire also reflects on the respect level, such that a clothing bonus is awarded upon 
 successful completion of a mission when a sufficient number of stylish or gang-appropriate items 
 are being worn. Once the player has earned enough respect in a neighborhood, another story mission 
 or location of an enemy stronghold is revealed. Completing the story mission or taking over the 
 stronghold will in turn help the player gain more territory within the city and earn more money 
 for the territories held.
  
  The player can engage in whichever activities he prefers to increase the 3rd Street Saints' respect 
 level. For example, if the player does not wish to street race and instead wants to focus on the 
 chop shop activity, he can steal and deliver cars instead. One can make the same amount of progress 
 through the game by choosing this route than if one had done the same amount of street racing. 
 Essentially, the game is tailored to reward the player for whatever he enjoys doing the most. By 
 fully completing all of the levels of a given activity, the player can unlock jewelry, designer 
 clothes, tattoos and other bonuses.
  
  As in the Grand Theft Auto games, breaking the law incurs the wrath of the police. Furthermore, 
 killing enemy gang members or performing activities in locations controlled by enemy gangs increases 
 your notoriety among that gang. The amount of attention the player has currently drawn from these 
 groups is displayed in the HUD, and directly influences the amount of resistance encountered. The 
 player can lose all police and gang attention at a nearby Forgive and Forget location by paying 
 a small fee.
  
  Other features
  
  The player may also recruit additional gang members (or homies ) to aid them. Players can obtain 
 these computer-controlled gang mates throughout the game, unlocking additional homies as they progress 
 through the missions. The player can either recruit a fellow gang member when encountered or make 
 a phone call to a character who has offered his/her services.
  
  The game features an extensive character customization mode similar to ones found in recent popular 
 games such as Tiger Woods PGA Tour 2005. For example, players can customize his character's skin 
 type, facial features, facial hair, clothing, body type, tattoos, hairstyle and color. There are 
 only two notable restrictions: the player is always male and the same height.
  
  The game also has an online multiplayer mode for Xbox Live that supports up to 1-12 people. Players 
 can join a gang and engage in street warfare with other gangs online. Saints Row features 4 different 
 online games. Gangsta Brawl (and the team-based version) is a standard deathmatch. Big Ass Chains 
 (and the team-based version) forces players to collect chains by killing people, and then depositing 
 them for points. A bonus is awarded for delivering more chains at once. Protect Tha Pimp is a team 
 based game, in which one team must escort the pimp to a destination point, while the other team 
 must kill the pimp or prevent their opponents from reaching this point. It is very similar to the 
 VIP mode from Counter-Strike. Blinged Out Ride is another team based game in which two teams must 
 raise enough money from killing opponents and collecting chains to upgrade the team's vehicle several 
 times in the Chop Shop.
  
  The majority of the cars in the game can be customised at one of three garages. Once modified, 
 the newly designed vehicle can be saved at the garage and restored if it is ever wrecked or destroyed 
 for a fee of $500. Players can store up to 60 cars in each of their cribs.
  
  The game is notable for its use of ragdoll physics, using the Havok engine. The implementation 
 of this feature, combined with the chaos the player can cause in an urban setting, often yields 
 humorous results. This is extensively used during the insurance fraud activity, allowing the player 
 to go limp at the push of a button and get hit by oncoming traffic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boston_College
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. It's lot's of fun. Sure it's just like GTA but whatever it's better. 
 The story is really cool. Customizing your charecter is a huge feature to me. Why? Why not. You 
 can make someone that looks like u or do what i did and make Fat Albert. The story is intresting. 
 It is in my opinion better then GTA. Mainly because you just shoot people in gta. In this game 
 you shoot people and have fun. Theres online as well . It has alot fun modes. You can make/join 
 a gang. That will last you 5-15 hours . All in all this game is lots of fun and if u like gta even 
 a tiny bit you will love this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:13 pm PT
Review:  How many games have we seen to steal from Grand Theft Auto throughout the years? True Crime: Streets 
 of L. A., True Crime: New York City, DRIV3R, Driver: Parallel Lines, The Godfather, Scarface: The 
 World Is Yours... And so on! You get the point. While some of them weren't bad, none of them were 
 as good as Saints Row and none of them came so close to GTA as Saints Row. Graphically, it's not 
 the best looking 360 game, but it's by far better than any GTA game before, which it should because 
 this is on the next-gen. Gameplay wise it blows Grand Theft Auto away. Still no surprise, because 
 it's running on stronger hardware. The physics are amazing. They're simply some of the best ones 
 in the business. Havok Physics at its' best. As far as the story of the game goes, it's nowhere 
 close to even being on the same level as GTA. The story lacks dramatic sequences and that's a bad 
 thing. They have the gangsta stuff going on, like in GTA: San Andreas, but without the interesting 
 twists to the story. It's you taking over the town. Really original *sarcasm*. But, hey, it's not 
 bad. It still has a lot of surprises, but you'll often hear too many sex-jokes and after a while 
 it gets old. The story is not bad, but i can't match GTA. Also you can only drive cars. No motorcycles, 
 boats, helicopters. But at least there are a lot of different cars. So overall the game is really 
 good and if you enjoy GTA, you'll enjoy Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude404
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  I am a big GTA fan. I love everything about Grand theft auto except the graphics. But what i don't 
 like is GTA copycats. They are usually boring, dull, and just trying to make a name for itself. 
 But Saints row is just different. Sure it is very very similar to San andreas but u have to admit, 
 there are some features in the game that are quite original. Here are the pros and cons
  
  Pros: Great map and GTA like experience - Graphics are pretty good - Weapons are just great and 
 realistic - Missions and activities are usually fun - Great voice acting and cast - pretty good 
 storyline - Characters are interesting - Great sound
  
  Cons: Missions get a little too repetitive at times, not much creativity to the mission design 
 - Lots of glitches - No blood or gore to add to the fun - Lacks a good ending 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wull1977
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row is a game that is immersed a bit too deeply in the turgid urban culture that is incredibly 
 popular just now, and that is it's main sticking point. The controls are solid, the gameplay incredibly 
 fun and the voice acting well done - it's all just a bit too shallow and empty. Starting with something 
 fairly positive, the sound is just that - fairly positive. Weapon sound effects provide excellent 
 feedback and are highly satisfying. The voice acting is suberb, Volition wisely keeping the player's 
 character completely silent, but made up for by a wide range of well acted NPCs. However, the music 
 is just so rubbish and generic - unless you happen to like generic modern R&amp; B or pretty guff 
 rap - that I actually turn the radio off. The tracks may or may not be licensed tracks, I'm not 
 up on the music type, but considering the joy to be had with the old school rap in GTA 3, it is 
 frankly utter pap.
  
  On that note, it is difficult not to compare Saint's Row to Grand Theft Auto 3, and with the best 
 will in the world, it is hard not to say that it is a blatant rip-off in the laziest of ways. This 
 would be bad enough were it only the game mechanic (which, to be fair, is better in many ways than 
 GTAs) , but it is the humour that is jarringly cut and paste from Rockstar's effort. What should 
 have been transferred is the feeling of consequence from San Andreas, where even your gang members 
 would be unimpressed with your assault on innocent bystanders. In Saint's Row, I accident kicked 
 an old lady, then watched as fellow gang members kicked her to death. Admittedly funny, but it 
 also leaves a bad taste in the mouth (if you are over 21!) . Maybe it's just me, but I do attempt 
 to not kill innocent bystanders in this type of game, and pride myself in completing San Andreas 
 with only 7 killed. I realise that this type of game relies on the choice and morality of the player, 
 but I felt that this was removed slightly by at least one of the car stealing animations where 
 your character automatically shoots the driver in order to steal their car. Not exactly what I 
 would have chosen to do.
  
  That being said, I don't believe that the game should be taken that seriously, and I suppose when 
 you see the box you know what you're letting yourself in for. In summation, the game can essentially 
 be called adequate. It is fun to dip in and out of and I have been doing exactly that for quite 
 some time. The but , however is fairly big (ho HO!) - Saint's Row is missing something unquantifiable 
 - a spark, and X Factor, if you will - leaving it strangely soulless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven4d8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Great game probably the best rip off of GTA game out there. The game looks great it sounds great 
 and the controls are just as i would expect from this type of game. Alot of replay value in this 
 game and there is a lot of fun to be had within the cities.
  
  i give this game a 8.5/10... The game does look like a next gen game, the controls are dead on 
 and sound effects are really nice explosions and guns and the music is great. I love getting together 
 a few gangsters and robbing the weapons store and then the clerk pullin a shotgun on my A$$ Oh 
 good times... great replay value with this game just like the GTA series
  On the downside the voice overs are so cheesy its very funny i am not sure if it was intended to 
 be cheesy or it just is... but its pretty bad... and it is a rip off... But still it is a great game 
 non the less 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CutlassD
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  The game begins with you being saved by Julius the leader of the third street saints after which 
 he asks you to join the group. The beginning starts of a little slow but you can feel the excitement 
 building right of the bat you can jump some rival gang members and steal their weapon then head 
 over to your friendly neighborhood liqueur store and hold them up for some starting cash which 
 requires you to point the gun at the employee until she/he forks over the money. After acquiring 
 some money head over to the nearest clothing store to acquire some new duds. once your feeling 
 more human you can jack a car and head over to one of the many side missions (I recommend snatch 
 for beginners) to get yourself some real cash. Once you found the activity of your choice and acquired 
 some money its time to hit up friendly fire and get yourself a real gun (I recommend the . 44 Shepperd) 
 then head back over to the church Julius told you meet him at and take your beatings and then the 
 real game begins which involves you taking over the city by acquiring new territories by completing 
 stronghold takeovers are by beating story missions this will also give more areas to protect because 
 at random times the rival gangs will try to take back their territories. To finish a gang of involves 
 killing the leaders of the three rival gangs. Overall this game is fun till the end and with its 
 user friendly interface isn't as frustrating as GTA. The graphics are great except for a few minor 
 glitches mostly found on the overpasses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jollyroger78
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  It is impossible not to compare Saints Row to Grand Theft Auto. The driving, the run-and gun combat, 
 and the mission structure all borrow liberally from the proven GTA formula. Even your nearly silent 
 (he speaks exactly four times) protagonist bears a resemblance, at least attitude-wise, to GTAIII's 
 silent killer. But where most games fail, Saints Row shines. This game is tight in all the right 
 places. Saints Row has decent visuals (considering its relatively early slot in the Xbox 360 lifecycle) , 
 excellent sound and a nearly perfect control scheme. Add a truly interesting story (final cutscene 
 notwithstanding) and you've got a great game to bridge the gap to the next GTA release.
  
  Gameplay-Saints Row's strong point is its intuitive control scheme. Movement is smooth and you 
 have total control of the camera. The targeting system is everything that GTA's should be, especially 
 while shooting while in a car. The driving mechanics are mostly excellent as well. Each vehicle 
 has its own characteristics and qualities accurately represented. Cars that look quick and agile 
 usually are (some of the super-fast cars, like the Attrazione, handle like they are on ice) , while 
 the garbage trucks and semis are unwieldy.
  
  Visuals-For a game that was released in the first year of the 360's lifecycle, Saints Row does 
 a very good job of utilizing the console's capabilities. The city of Stilwater is not only detailed, 
 but also bustling with people and activity. From the tons of different car models to the varying 
 degrees of dilapidation in the slums, it's easy to see the effort put into crafting the city.
 
  
  Sound-While not up to the gold standard that GTA has set, Saints Row more than holds their own 
 in the sound department. While there aren't as many songs per radio station, there are a couple 
 more stations overall. Unfortunately, the variety in each of those stations is a bit limited. For 
 example, on the Krunch (the hair band station where I spent most of my time) , there were around 
 ten songs by six bands. You can only hear Once Bitten, Twice Shy so many times before you want 
 to stick toothpicks in your eardrums.
  
  The ambient sound effects are excellently done. This is the first time I remember walking past 
 a construction site and hearing random construction noises that weren't essential to a cutscene 
 or mission. The comments by civilians are hilarious at first, but are recycled way too often. The 
 weapon sounds are relatively accurate and the explosion effects are great. Blowing stuff up is 
 completely satisfying.
  
  Value-There is enough stuff to do in this game to keep you busy for a week. There are tons of side 
 missions to do along side the main questline, and you must complete at least a few of these to 
 advance the story along. The Insurance Fraud activity is absolutely hilarious and a must-try.
 
  
  In addition to a 30-40 hour single player experience, Saints Row also offers a large amount of 
 multiplayer options, both competitive and cooperative. The most interesting of the bunch are probably 
 Protect Tha Pimp and Blinged Out Ride.
  
  Unfortunately, Saints Row is a bit buggy. From random graphical glitches to The Ballad of Jayne 
 never playing on the Krunch, this game is full of little gremlins which take away from its shine 
 a little bit. Many of these (such as my save file freezing at 97% completion) are fixed via an 
 auto-update from Xbox Live. But there are enough sudden hiccups to make the game seem a bit rough 
 around the edges.
  
  Grand Theft Auto is the undisputed champion of the sandbox crime adventure. Many have tried, and 
 most have failed, to imitate the formula that makes GTA so great. But in Saints Row a new challenger 
 arrives and future iterations should give Rockstar's behemoth a run for its money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkPhoenix142
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row may not be GTA4, but its a good game. Many say it is a rip off, well it is, but not 
 exactly. There are many things that are exclusive to it, like a mini-game which involves you jumping 
 in front of cars and trains to make money. Or escorting a hooker around while she bangs a lucky 
 guy right in the back seat. The story is a little far-fetched, but the game still rocks. Pulling 
 drive-bys in a ultra-fast sports car is great. There is a multiplayer element in the game, although 
 it isn't the best. There are quite a few modes, and you'll find plenty of other players. One of 
 the funniest things in Saints Row are the numerous glitches in the game. At one point you'll shoot 
 a car and it will hit you and you'll phase through the ground!
  
  If you really want to have fun, turn on the Evil Cars cheat and you'll laugh till your sides hurt. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaintsRowSam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  saints row is a game where u can really focus on anything u want, if u want to do the side missions 
 first no problem, if u want to do the real missions first no problem, this game runs very smooth 
 has VERY nice graphics, and i love the ragdoll affects, the only problem i really have with the 
 games is the acheivments/cheats well i was using cheats and that makes it so u cant get any acheivments, 
 well i only have 200 points but i think i should have somewhere near 600, all in all this is a 
 great game, and BETTER than gta san andreas, i love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swat47
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Whats so interesting about this one is that you're able to do much more than just do missions, 
 actually more than a few infact, Your not able to build your stats on this but you can temporarily 
 increase your things with, yes, drugs, I know it sounds funny but its a one hit kill almost, and 
 the bodys go flying. Haha. Alright lets get to the graphics, the graphics are really good for a 
 game with a such vast world, and no frame lag whatsoever. What I personally like about this is 
 the wide variety of weapons and vehicles. Just like in GTA Sanandreas, you can Pimp out your ride 
 , and add nitrous, and the nitrous is infinite, but isnt so fast. But it doesn't really mater. 
 Anyway, end of review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibson-les-rick
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 15, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game to be honest i was expecting it to be a GTA knockoff like true crime, But 
 the problem is true crime failed on every aspect, This game is exicting it has beautiful graphics 
 and gorgeous explosions only a downers like some cars have weird physics and there is some noticable 
 bugs and glitches but other than that it is a solid gameplay experience.
  
  You can mod just about any car in the game with new rims, paintjobs and the like, the story is good 
 but at times it's nerve racking for example, to progress through some missions u need to earn more 
 respect by doing this you have to do activites like car chopping insurance fraud etc.
  
  The control system is great, the way you select guns is ingenious and you won't be flicking through 
 20 guns just to get to the one you want.
  
  Your character is fully customisable, you can purchase clothes throughout stores in the city but 
 it is very limitated,
  
  You can also do destruction derby aswell which is fun but gets boring after a while.
  
  Overall 
 this is a great game that every xbox 360 owner sholud try. THQ where taking a chance but they managed 
 to pull it off 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ottosmann
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  In my opinion, Saints Row is the first game to successfully copy the GTA formula, with addictive, 
 fast gameplay and non-stop fun. The first thing you do in the game is create a character. Then 
 you start the adventure. In the beginning of the game, cutscenes show you being caught in the middle 
 of a gang crossfire between rival gangs and then being rescued by another gang, the 3rd Street 
 Saints. You then proceed to join the saints.
  
  Saints Row takes place in the fictional city of Stilwater that is being ravaged by gang wars. Your 
 goal as a Saint is to take over the city. Throughout the game you will find different missions 
 scattered throught out the city, which can only be completed if you have enough respect. Respect 
 is earned by robbing stores and completing activities. Or, you can just roam throughout the city, 
 buying clothes and cars, ect, or simply wreaking havock.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is really simple in Saints Row. The driving controls are easy as is shooting. 
 I didn't really experience any problems here.
  
  GRAPHICS: Better than any GTA games, I can say that much. They weren't overly spectacular, though.
 
  
  SOUND: Definitely the high point of the game. The voice acting is terrific. Another thing that 
 impressed is that while driving in a car you can listen to the radio. There are many very real 
 sounding stations, with DJs and people calling in.
  
  This is a great game, it is not to hard, and I would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaMeFrEaK5040
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row may be to some people as just another GTA style rip-off. But what makes this game different 
 than the GTA series in the shooting. 3rd person action with the same control schemes of a First 
 person shooter combined makes this feel like a true gangster game. Being able to shoot in any direction 
 while in a car but just simply moving your analog stick. Being able to call a the wheel women to 
 drive you around and even being able to get in chases while she drives and you shoot with rpgs, 
 aks, etc. Great voice acting and a pretty good story. Graphics are nice and the over the top explosions 
 for cars is simply beautiful. This game does have it's downsides. Noticeable glitches and bugs 
 are common. Such as cars disappearing off the screen, crashing, cars getting stuck in the road, 
 seeing through the map, etc. Multi player is fun with the gang system. However it does feel a little 
 rushed. You'll notice many glitch while playing online and some levels are just boring, since each 
 game mode only has 3 different maps. But all in all, it's a great free roaming game on the X360 
 and it shouldn't be ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoggSniper
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row may be to some people as just another GTA style rip-off. But what makes this game different 
 than the GTA series in the shooting. 3rd person action with the same control schemes of a First 
 person shooter combined makes this feel like a true gangster game. Being able to shoot in any direction 
 while in a car but just simply moving your analog stick. Being able to call a the wheel women to 
 drive you around and even being able to get in chases while she drives and you shoot with rpgs, 
 aks, etc. Great voice acting and a pretty good story. Graphics are nice and the over the top explosions 
 for cars is simply beautiful. This game does have it's downsides. Noticeable glitches and bugs 
 are common. Such as cars disappearing off the screen, crashing, cars getting stuck in the road, 
 seeing through the map, etc. Multi player is fun with the gang system. However it does feel a little 
 rushed. You'll notice many glitch while playing online and some levels are just boring, since each 
 game mode only has 3 different maps. But all in all, it's a great free roaming game on the X360 
 and it shouldn't be ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tremlesshalo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this..... THIS IS NOT A GTA RIP-OFF!!! This game is sick!!!!! The thing I love most 
 is that you can create your very own character in Saints Row and you can also customize vehicles. 
 And there is also a lot of replay value due to the fact that there are side missions that you can 
 do when ever you feel like doing them. Now the Online of Saints Row...... was sweet and a lot 
 of fun if you play it with friends over the lobby or play other players over the matchmaking to 
 get more money or points to buy clothes, shoes, shirts, necklaces, rings, socks, etc. to make 
 your character look cool and fashionable to other players. The A. I. was also very good and aggressive 
 such as the police and the SWAT team trying to take you out if they have the opportunity. And the 
 gangs of Saints Row act the same as the cops, but theyre more aggressive towards you if you get 
 them madder when you take out one of their members out or you takeover their turf. The only thing 
 that I have to complain about is that there are bugs in the game which are not a big of a deal 
 to worry about. Overall, the single player game play and the online game play is awesome. This 
 game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXSN1PERXx
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:10 am PT
Review:  Saints Row was the very first game i played on xbox360 and im glad it was! its a great game! the 
 controls are easy to use and very smooth.. however do take a bit of getting used to but once u 
 have selecting wepons and performing other tasks will be very clean.. the graphics are great the 
 AI is fun and sometimes very funny.. the enviroment and map is incredible! the map is big enough 
 to keep u amused for hours on end and the wepons are also very good.. i will give u a VERY brief 
 description of the game as its not that complex. you start of as a nobody get recruited by a gang 
 called the Saints and from there do what gangs do! take eachother out! with alot of mini missions 
 along the way i personaly enjoyed it alot and im sure anyone who was a fan of GTA will also but 
 just keep in mind it isnt GTA!.. For this game i dont have much really to complain about the online 
 play i dissliked immensely and wouldnt ever go back online with it.. and the only other BIG complaint 
 from me is there was no planes, bikes or helicopters! this game would have totaly OWNED if it had 
 them.. well i hope thats helped in your decission making its definately worth its money so have 
 fun :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  Many say its just a clone of GTA, but its not featuring a gang storyline where you must fight other 
 gangs to take control of the streets of stilwater is only a third of the game, but it does get 
 you a statisfying 400 or so gamerscore. The storyline is great and completely new take on anything 
 GTA
  
  After the storyline is complete there is loads of new activities that Rockstar in the whole GTA 
 series have bearly mentioned. The activities themselves are fun and just as fun as they would be 
 if the game was solely about them! And another easy 200 Points!
  
  Online is a different story being standard and exclusive gameplay modes which are unrelated to 
 the main game but allow you to start your own Gang and take control of the LIVE! As well as pimping 
 your ride. while fighting to the death at the same time and also defending your ride!
  
  Amazing, New... NOT a clone but a new idea on an already proved one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari_101
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to explain Saints Row. Some might argue that it has gameplay that may not be original, 
 but that doesn't mean it's not fun. Yet some say that the gameplay is rehash of GTA and simply 
 doesn't live up to its standards. But the reality is that Saints Row lies in the middle. Saints 
 Row starts with a player you can customize who joins a gang. I'm not really going to spoil the 
 story much. The dialogue is pretty good, but then again, not as good as GTA. It has humor, but 
 sometimes it is just being forced. The gameplay is good, but it's not innovative. It is like GTA, 
 and makes some obvious improvements such as a nice aiming system rather than lock-on. However, 
 there isn't as much as depth as GTA has. No planes, helicopters, boats, or motorcycles you can 
 drive. The activities have also taken a downfall with there being a much less amount. The map is 
 much bigger than any GTA map yet. The visuals are enhanced with the power of the 360, yet there 
 are many glitches. The highway randomly dissapears, and cars pop in. The draw distance, however 
 is excellent. Saints Row simply can't beat GTA, but if you're looking for something to last you 
 until GTA IV comes out, then this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercal
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Simply put, this game is a lot of fun and will keep you playing for hours. Like all games of this 
 free flowing genre it has a lot going for it in ways of a main story and countless side missions. 
 Also like other games of the genre, there is a great world to explore and enough cars to keep you 
 interested if you like collecting them (safe houses at your disposal to do just that!) . All this 
 as well as other standard features such as vast amounts of weapons, radio stations, NPCs, etc.
 
  
  Where the best part of this game lies is in its story, you get familiar with certain characters 
 and know who your enemies are and how to spot them from the get go. Saints Row puts you in the 
 shoes of some no name muscle man that you are to create yourself (great customizing too I might 
 add) , this guy is initiated into the saints, one of the four gangs in the city. From here you quickly 
 get to the idea that you must take out the rival gangs through missions in the main game that are 
 broken up into three kinds (for the three separate gangs of coarse) but that doesnt mean that 
 you can simply jump to those key missions, you must earn respect before tackling these missions. 
 This is done by completing side quests like drug running, car jacking, insurance fraud and other 
 odds and ends tasks. For the most part these side missions are a lot of fun and tailor to different 
 style of player e. g. good drivers for car jacking and good shooters for drug running. All this 
 gives you a good balance of gameplay with the focal point of the whole game being the idea of freedom 
 in being able to do what you enjoy. Unfortunately what lets this game down is that it is a lot 
 like the GTA series and thus you feel like all this has been done before with next to no new concepts. 
 The only thing that truly makes it stand out is the visuals with Saints Row doing the 360 hardware 
 justice for a first generation game. One positive that cant be disputed is that this is the best 
 take on the genre other than the GTA with other franchises like Driver and True Crime simply not 
 being up to scratch in the fun department. Saints Row is nothing original but still alot of fun 
 from start to finish. GTA fans will eat this up, if you cant wait for GTA 4 to arrive then Im 
 sure Saints Row will entertain you until then. 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is no doubt a carbon-copy of the highly popular gaming series: Grand Theft Auto. But 
 really, so what if it is a copy? Saints Row is a really fun game, I mean REALLY fun. Saints Row 
 has some things that make it better than Grand Theft Auto, but also has some downfalls that make 
 it worse. But Saints Row is no doubt a great game, and to call it anything else is just stupid. 
 These type of games like this and the GTA series are known for its profanity a lot of violence, 
 and Saints Row has no doubt a lot of profanity and violence. But what would a game like this be 
 without all of its swearing and killing anyways?
  
  Saints Row starts out with a character creation screen where - unlike Grand Theft Auto - you can 
 make your character whatever you want him to look like. You can make him skinny, muscular, fat, 
 Caucasian, Asian, African American, or... Anything. This is one of the best parts of the them that 
 separates it from Grand Theft Auto. You cant dress your character at the start sadly, but you 
 can buy items of clothing later on in the game. You start out the game walking down the streets 
 of Still Water when all of the sudden a gang war breaks out exactly where you were walking. People 
 get shot, people get killed, and things get blown up, a typical gang war. Members of the Saints 
 Row gang help you avoid death, and bring you to their headquarters. From here, you have to join 
 the 3rd Street Saints and take over the city of Stillwater by doing missions for each gang: Westside 
 Rollers, Los Carnales, and the Vice Kings. The missions are pretty GTA-ish, and can sometimes get 
 very frustrating. Sometimes in some missions, rival gang members have rocket launchers, and if 
 your car gets hit with one, youre dead.
  
  Saints Row has some pretty average graphics, especially when you look at other games on the Xbox 
 360. Everything is smooth though, every character you see is smooth with no rough edges most of 
 the time. Each person walking on the street have a different attire on, some of the time. Its 
 odd to see the same person 30 times on one drive across Stillwater, but its barely noticeable 
 if youre not paying attention. There are tons of different cars that look extremely different 
 from each other, but sometimes you can see the same type of car over and over again. Cars also 
 like to spawn out of nowhere and almost make you crash. They also disappear when youre driving 
 down a highway. The game can also get frustrating when driving fast and trying to get away from 
 gang members or the cops. The roads can disappear and reappear again which can thus make you crash 
 because you dont know where youre going. You can also randomly get stuck in the ground and you 
 cant move so you have to reset the game. Sometimes you dont get stuck for very long which is 
 good I guess, but if youre trying to get a hostages money, they can escape the car.
  
  The sound is great though, its pretty much flawless. The only I dont like is sometimes the voice 
 acting is a little too amateur for such a great game. The radio soundtrack is also kind of odd. 
 Theres some good beats here and there, but most of the music isnt very good. Also, the lack of 
 ability to use your downloaded music on your hard drive as a radio station is a bummer, because 
 I like listening to the Chili Peppers while driving down the highway, not Wu Tang Clan. The sound 
 effects are top notch, and are pretty much perfect. The explosions are pretty much real and can 
 make Grand Theft Auto look like crap. The cars also sound great and sound like a car would actually 
 sound like. All of the vrooms and squeals of the tires are in this game and probably better 
 than ever.
  
  Saints Row pretty much plays exactly like the Grand Theft Auto series. You still have your Gas 
 button (A) , Brake/Reverse Button (X) , and your Get in Car/Get Out of Car button (Y) . The only different 
 in the controls from Saints Row and the Grand Theft Auto series is that B in Saints Row is to change 
 your weapon, but you hold it in and you use the joystick to pick what weapon you want to use. Also, 
 the Right Trigger is to shoot instead of B, or O, in the Grand Theft Auto series. The main premise 
 of the game is to go and do a mission of either Westside Rollers, Los Carnales, or the Vice Kings. 
 In order to be able to do a mission though, you have to fill up a respect metre. To fill up this 
 metre you have to do activities around Stillwater. Some of these activities include Drug Trafficking, 
 Stealing Cars and returning them to a certain Chop Shop, killing Pimps and stealing their Hoes, 
 and even killing as much people as possible to earn money. The most fun activity by far is the 
 Insurance Fraud. What you have to do is jump in front of cars and try to get as hurt as you possible 
 can, earning you money. If you get to the amount of money it says, you win the activity and the 
 respect. If you drive a Police Car as fast as you can and hit head on with another car, or a wall, 
 youll character will smash right through the wind shield and causing a lot of damage and money. 
 If you keep doing this, you can make tons of money, and earn tons of respect. Once youre done 
 a certain amount of missions, you have to take over strongholds, but some can get very frustrating 
 when you have to kill a bunch of people with rocket launchers.
  
  Stillwater itself is surprising big, but the map makes it look a lot bigger than it actually is. 
 Still, its not as big as say, San Andreas, but its still big enough for me. It has a Downtown 
 with tall buildings and rich places, and it also has a suburb area with houses scattered everywhere. 
 Theres a ghetto place where you first start the game, and theres places like an airport, and 
 the docks. Los Carnales have taken over the South end with the docks and the airport with the Westside 
 Rollers have taken over the West side and part of the north. The Vice Kings have most of the North 
 end with all of the tall buildings, and the Saints Row have a bit of the east. There are stores 
 scattered pretty much everywhere that arrange from Gun stores, Clothing stores, fast food restaurants, 
 Music stores, and Jewellery stores. You earn most of your money by completing activities, and completing 
 missions. With this money you can buy things like Clothing, Rings, Earrings, Necklaces, and Guns 
 from the stores I mentioned above. You can also buy different types of them like Bronze, Silver, 
 Gold, and Platinum. Eventually, youll have enough for everything Platinum, but you should buy 
 cheaper things first.
  
  The gun play in Saints Row is not as smooth as Grand Theft Auto, but its still pretty good. You 
 dont have a lock-on aim button, so you have to aim with the right analog stick to shoot someone. 
 The guns arrange from Pistols, to Magnums, to Shotguns, to Sniper Rifles, to Rocket Launchers. 
 You can only take a certain type of gun at a time. One annoying aspect of this is that you have 
 to have either a machine gun, or a sniper rifle. You cant have a machine gun AND a sniper rifle, 
 only one or the other. Online play is very fun in Saints Row. There are four modes of play, Gangsta 
 Brawl which is a deathmatch, Big-Ass Chains where you have to collect chains from fallen opponents 
 and return them to a base for points, Protect tha Pimp which is a team attack and defend mission, 
 and Blinged Out Ride where you upgrade your vehicle and get to the rally point before your opponent. 
 All of them are pretty much basic, and can be extremely fun too. There are also about 50 achievements 
 to unlock, and half of them are unlocked online. Some of the achievements are extremely easy, while 
 some are extremely difficult.
  
  When youre done with Saints Row, youll be glad you played it. It is no doubt a clone of Grand 
 Theft Auto, but it is also straight-up fun as hell. The graphics can get tiresome with the pop 
 ups here and there, and bad voice acting, but the overall game is solid and shouldnt be missed 
 because its a clone. Its a very satisfying experience that can fun for everyone, well, thats 
 17 or older. But dont miss this game, its truly a great game, and it can be more fun than Grand 
 Theft Auto in some cases.
  
  + Customizable character at start of the game.
  + Tons of activities to do.
  + Giant, and detailed world.
  + Awesome online play.
  + Surprisingly 
 good controls.
  + Excellent sound effects.
  + Fun to just mess around.
  
  - A blatant GTA rip off.
  - Average voice acting.
  - Graphics are sub-par.
  - Bad soundtrack.
 
  - Many bugs that are annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  very upset with the delay of GTA4, so i got saints row, very good game indeed. i like driving the 
 big trucks pulling the trailers around the city. dont think GTA ever had that. dont care much for 
 flying airplans are bikes, give me a big truck 18 wheeler for some great fun, even have tanker 
 trucks in the game. going down the freeway feels so real, the driving seems to float just a bit 
 i give GTA better controll there, cars seem to fall apart to easy, the gun fights are good, game 
 looks good and the music is good, over all now you can buy the game for 21 bucks and hey its a 
 new game for me. so 21 bucks it sure fills that empty spot that rockstar did to us, this is why 
 we need other companies making games like this, so we are not stuck with one company troubles, 
 so go out buy saints row 21 bucks and enjoy, and rockstar can go play with themselfs, thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  THQ had to hav sum balls to even try to use the same concept as a game that has basically stepped 
 on every other of its type since the release of GTA 3. I mean, what could THQ possibly do to improve 
 upon a game that basically lets u do everything? Well, to cut a long story short, they did.
  
  Saints Row basically has the same premise as GTA San Andreas, underground gang needs to become 
 big gang, they use a small fish to do their dirty work, in this process he becomes a big fish. 
 Simple. The driving is basically the same, as is the shooting (minus the auto-aim) . You have to 
 spray ur tag over other gangs, u can buy clothes to spruce up ur character and buy car parts to 
 bling up ur ride. That is where the similarities end.
  
  The first thing that saints row adds is a character creation feature, enabling u to customize ur 
 gangster to look like how u would protray urself as a gangsta, which enables u to get in deeper 
 with the game. The side missions are also new, instead of just answering telephones u now perform 
 tasks from hijacking cars to being a private escort for the many different shady characters around 
 the city. This new level of freedom also extends to the crimes that u can commit. Aswell as being 
 able to hijack cars, mug people, drive-bys, murder etc., u can now rob stores, either by cracking 
 the safe, holding up the cashier or going back after dark and burgling the place. Further immersing 
 u into the criminal underworld of the city.
  
  As well as that, Saints Row teaches GTA a thing or two about graphics, although it keeps its cartoon-like 
 graphics, they hav been given a glossy new coat and these touches make the game feel finished and 
 refined. However, the many peoiple that u will meet during ur time in the city still hav the same 
 flamboyancy and attitude that we loved about the GTA games and because of this the game has some 
 hilarious moments.
  
  As well as the voice acting the cars sound very good as well and the radio stations hav something 
 to suit everyone's taste, from drum and bass to rock and roll. This makes the game more appealing 
 to a wider audience and enables more gamers to enjoy the game.
  
  The gameplay is what makes Saints Row better than all of the other failed attempts at cloning GTA. 
 It plays almost identical to GTA San Andreas, with very similar driving, running and shooting physics, 
 however this is definitely not a bad thing (as we all know) . The missions aren't too difficult 
 and there is a very good learning curve. The side missions increase in difficulty but they always 
 feel fair and not overwhelming. The only gameplay annoyance is that the map can display an overly 
 long route taking u on a rather large de-tour that isnt needed, this however is never too frustrating 
 as u can just use the map 2 go ur own way.
  
  The only problem with Saints Row is that there are a few bugs that can treally become frustrating, 
 i found the game to be prone to crashing (sumetimes 4 or 5 times in one sitting) and there can 
 also be terrible pop-up from both the cars and the scenery. And that is not all, sometimes your 
 car will vanish and you are left sitting in the air, unable to move. Thes are niggling problems 
 that can make the game feel unfinished and they are what makes Saints Row second best to GTA. he 
 multiplayer also feels tacked on and rushed, with the standard deathmatch and team deathmatch, 
 there are sum interesting game modes including co-op but they also feel boring (especially co-op, 
 which is unbelieveably pointless) . because of this Saints Row lost its perfect rating and it is 
 a shame because of its truly awesome single player mode.
  
  I dont think that saints row is a bad game as u can see from my score, there is plenty to keep 
 u busy and the acheivements are well thought out (taking around 50 hours to finish most of the 
 game and complete the story mode) , but i feel that with a few extra weeks of sorting out the problems 
 and refining the multiplayer saints row would hav been a much better game and would hav been a 
 contender with GTA, rather than just a fill in until the nest GTA is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 4, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Like your typical car  from the police, shooting pistols at civilians 
 game. But this one is different from alot. But with the Grand Theft Auto Feel. There is no real 
 innovation here.. I mean everything in this game feels like ive done it somewhere else before.. 
 Even the online is a big cheesy version of 25 to life.. atleast 25 to life had a great feel to 
 the controls.
  
  Graphics:
  Better then your average Car jacking, Drive-by, looting, Running from the police, and shooting pistols 
 at civilians game. i give it to them the graphics are pretty cool except for the invisible walls.. 
 WTF WAS YOU GUYS THINKING?.. ok ok the explosions! there i said it.. i love the freaking explosions 
 they own! the reason i play this game is to put in a cheat code and blow stuff the hell up! i mean.. 
 WHO DOESN'T! AND FOR YOU TO ADD A TRAIN TO BLOW OFF THE TRAIN TRACKS MAKES THIS GAME 10 TIMES SWEETER 
 THEN GTA!
  
  Sounds:
  Ok the sounds are actually very good in this game.. I love the ambient noises of people being shot 
 at.. makes me feel like i'm living back in Little Rock, Arkansas back in 1995 Again.
  
  Value:
  Its good but it does get old after you beat the game Except for those explosions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizzuk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  A title i went straight in at the deep end and bought without finding out too much anout it, but 
 i was very glad i did. The humour and cut scenes are first class, and while its not quite up there 
 with the GTA series it does a fine job of keeping you entertained. The highly addictive side missions 
 made me come back for more even when the great main missions were over. FAves were drug trafficking 
 and mayhem, but not one of them was dull and i really enjoyed this from start to finish. The only 
 slight dissapointment were the graphics which were a bit too cartoon like for me, but the humour 
 and great gameplay more than made up for this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miniceebs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 3, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok lets get this straight... yes of course its very VERY similar to Grand theft Auto.. but its not 
 like saints row is a **** game.. it has done extremely well to attempt to even compete with GTA... because 
 as we all know GTA is one of the best games off all time.. and to make a game very similar to GTA.. it 
 is hard not to copy it... firstly i think the customisation of saints row is absolutely unreal! 
 customise cars and customise yourself with endless options.. and we all love games where the main 
 character is ourselves.. not just a made up character.. and @ the start of this game you make your 
 own guy and eventually after you travel across the entire map you encounter new shops in which 
 to buy new clothes... the missions in saints row were never ever going to better than GTA... but 
 they are still extemely fun. Overall this game is awesome and i seriously reccommend it... the negative 
 aspect of saints row is that its slightly short in terms of life span. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hwoarang12
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  gameplay: 7/10
  graphics: 8/10
  sound: 8/10
  value: 8/10
  reviewer's tilt: 8/10
  It was possible that someone will try to maka a game that will be similar to the GTA series because 
 there was no new GTA game in that time but is it possible to make a game almost the same? The answer 
 is yes and we have Saint's Row, a free roaming game.
  
  Gampelay: First what we need to do is to create our own character. We have to choose the complexion 
 of skin, hair style, hair color, color of eyes and etc. When this is done we can start playing 
 the game. Saint's Row is very similar to the GTA series as I said, from the whole gameplay mechanics 
 to the same bugs. We are a gang member from 3rd Street Saints and we have to build our respect 
 by executing great missions. Except the missions from our gang the game offers also activities, 
 from hijacking, hitman activities to chop shop, drug traficking, racing activities, insurance Fraud 
 activity and Mayhem activity where we have to do as big chaos on the street as we can. There are 
 also Snatch activities where we have to pick up the "ladies" to the right place. Saint's Row offers 
 also a big arsenal of weapons which can we buy at Friendly Fire shop. One of the biggest pluses 
 is this that all mission in the game are like in the movies, there are a lot of outstanding actions 
 in the game and the storyline is really interesting and addictive.
  Of course Stilwater city has a lot of really cool shops. Clothing shops, barbers, fast food restaurants, 
 car mechanics where we can repair our car and upgrade it, Forgive and Forget Confession is like 
 a Pay'n Spray in GTA, a shop where we can buy alcohol and cigarettes (we can even be drunk and 
 then the screen is smeared) , jewelery shops, night clubs, there is also a plastic surgeon in the 
 Stilwater. Each shop in the game we can rob. The whole city is really huge and opened to us from 
 the beginning so there are no limits. Unfortunately there are no motocycles, airplanes, boats in 
 the game, fortunately we can swim. The cars are great, from sports to classics. All moves from 
 the characters from the game are very realistic
  The cool addition to the game is the cell phone, we can dial the right number and call our homies, 
 for taxi or ambulance. Each number from the game that we will find for example on the advertising 
 we can dial, it's really cool. The map is well done and everything is clear and readable. The gameplay 
 is really superb but too bad that our character is not saying anything, also too bad that Saint's 
 Row has the same bugs as GTA series. For example when we hit the street lamp or the tree it will 
 just fall down, when we are driving a car the other cars that are on the streets can simply vanished 
 just in front of us, it does not happen often but it's disturbing and if we break the front lamp 
 in the car the light will not disappear. I really don't know why THQ and Volition didn't fix those 
 bugs, it looks as copy.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Saint's Row is very good. The cars explosions are looking just wonderful, 
 the characters looks good, the environment is detailed, the leaves on the trees are moving on the 
 wind, it's good.
  
  Sound: The music in the radiostations are very good. We have some stuff from Hip-Hop music, Rock, 
 Rege, Classics, Pop and relaxing music. Our main character will not say anything like the main 
 hero from GTA 3 but other characters voices are extremely cool. The noises of the cars explosions 
 and crushes are realistic, the weapons noises are very good.
  
  Overall: If you like GTA series then you will like Saint's Row. It's really good game and you will 
 surely spend a cool time with this title, Saint's Row is like a appetizer before the solemn dinner 
 which is Grand Theft Auto IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjkflke
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  This is a fun game. easy to learn controlls. the only c*ap thing about this game is online. but 
 if you by it for the missions youll be happy. the game isnt too short. the game is a copy off GTA 
 San Andreas. Other then that it is fun. this was my first 360 game and i wws happy with it. te 
 story line was a bit simple. one thing i like about this game is bullet holes. you dontsee that 
 in many game like this. and the explosions to the cars look awsum aswell. after youve finished 
 the game their is still alot of things to do which i like because it means you dont have to go 
 over the missions a million times to entertain yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfireking905
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  When most gamers look at saint's row they think that its just another GTA clone but its not. Sure 
 saint's row takes alot of GTA's gameplay but expands on it with its sidemissions. I'm not saying 
 its better than GTA with its lack of a longer story and no bikes or planes but still it improves 
 on a lot of areas GTA hasn't touched in any game. The side missions further the game with unlockable 
 weapons, cars and discounts at the gun shop and car mechanic. Another part of the game that I enjoy 
 is the suprising depth of the car custimization. The are hundreads of colors for the car as well 
 as many body options along with nitris and hydrolics. Saints row has something for every weather 
 its racing, killing, cutomizing or just following the story line. Saints row is a defininte pick 
 up for any GTA lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necrophio
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  personally, i like saints row. if you are a big fan of the GTA genre, then this will definately 
 tide you over till the much anticipated GTA IV hits the shelves. the gameplay was nothing new and 
 different, everything you expect from an open sandbox is there. plenty of side activities to keep 
 you busy if you dont want to do the traditionally storyline. the graphics are hands down outstanding, 
 as well as the sound. the story on the other hand, is a little disheartening. to be more specific, 
 the ending outright sucked. (not to spoil things for the folks who havent bought this yet) for 
 all that you built, after conquering all of stillwater, the ending was anti-climactic to say the 
 least. at least the developers had the common courtesy of allowing you to save the game before 
 the final cutscene. outside of the ending, the game on the whole is a great game, and there is 
 a ton of replay value. the achievements are not an easy thing to come by, but fun to earn nonetheless. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brimmstone69
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game has sooo blown the GTA series outta the water. the customization of your character the 
 cares the weapons the whole frelling game is just AWESOME!!!!!
  The game play can be picked up really quickly as is the driving, the mugging and kidnapping of 
 people is just funny as hell!
  The prices on stuff was a bit extreme but in the end its worth saving your money to get the good 
 stuff. Plus you can do drugs and get drunk and it actually affects how you see the game world
 
  Some of the missions can be a pain in the bum but all in all this title as I said blows the GTA 
 series outta the water without much effort behind it.
  I give it a 4.5 rockets outta 5 rockets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome and i still play it. I like this game way better than GTA but I dont know 
 yet because GTA IV looks pretty awesome but until then ill be playing saints row. The storyline 
 is great and the gameplay is awesome and just like san andreas you can change your clothing but 
 there clothes are cool and make you look cool this is a great game and i recommend it to anyone 
 with a xbox 360 and likes sandbox game Great game must buy but its my opinon. Thats all i have 
 to say about it but one of the great things for this game is the voice acting the voices go great 
 with the charaters and in this game your guy talks just a lil bit but you can have different voices 
 from picking different races oh yeah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a game where you can roam freely and practically do whatever you want even you want. 
 You start out walk down the street until this chick stops you and then all hell brakes loss as 
 three different gangs start shoting each other. Then after almost being blown up by a burning car 
 the head of the gang called the 3rd Street Saints wants you to join so you do and it kind of a 
 win win situation. Anyway you work for the 3rd Street Saints and they want to take back what was 
 there's, the city.
  
  GRAPHICS ~ the graphics are really good, it might have been better if I had an HDTV, because there 
 was some little flaws with the graphics on my almost to the HDTV SDTV. Probably confused you there, 
 all you need to know is that the graphics rock.
  
  SOUND ~ the sounds of car and people cussing are realling awesome. The suns sound good and the 
 cars being blown up by the cheat code I used to get a bazuka. So sound good and teh graphics rock, 
 games already sounding good isn't it.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT ~ it is just fun, do what you want when you want to. You even get to kill civilians 
 if you please until the cops find out. Saints Row is like Grand Theft Auto but this game you can 
 call for assistians when need it. Use the cell phone to call your gangsta friend to kill cops and 
 all that. Anywho entertainment rock, you probably miss millions of meals so you can play this awesome 
 game.
  
  REPLAY VALUE ~ High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mingin444
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 28, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  I approached the game with concern because many games have attempted the GTA formula and been complete 
 crap. This is the exception.
  
  Graphics first. It is the best looking game of its genre. Stillwater is large and the world looks 
 awesome. The facial expression of the people is lacking but it is a sandbox game and we dont expect 
 awesome graphics.
  
  Sound design is where it falls down. The music soundtrack is crap and the voices sound like a bunch 
 of prebuescent teenagers. There is far too much lame swearing.
  
  The actual game itself is very familiar if you've played a recent GTA game. You do missions to 
 progress. The game's main storyline is artificially lengthened by building up respect. In order 
 to do a mission you have to do little activities such as the escort or snatch. These missions are 
 easy at first but can get frustrating later.
  
  The storyline is that the main character you design helping the 3rd Street Saints take over Stillwater 
 from 3 rival gangs. There's quite a few twists and turns making the story pretty enjoying.
  
  What this game did best in my opinion was the gang structure and homie idea. GTA San Andreas 
 was lacking in gang control but this game fixes those short falls. The action in this game is great 
 and carries into the online, which is fun for a while but dont expect something like Gears of War.
 
  
  While it may not be as good as GTA on a whole there are a few things this game does excel at more 
 than GTA. I would recommend that everyone give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EGGNOG4073
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 26, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I'm gunna try not to relate this game to gta, because although it is similar, is has many differences. 
 In my personal opinion, the best part of the game is the mission variety and the respect system. 
 Sometimes you'll be rumbling with rival gangs for territory, stealing drug trucks, saving hostages, 
 and tons of other stuff. The main missions consist of the bulk of the game, but about every other 
 mission you will have to gain respect by doing side missions. There are plenty of side missions, 
 some of them are: being a hitman, escorting people, hostage situations, stealing cars, or robbing 
 shops. Last, the game puts the Havoc engine to good use, there are very few load times and the 
 graphics look awesome. Last, Saints Row has a great and easy fighting system. The gunplay feels 
 good without an auto aim as well as the driving. In the end, this will keep you satisfied until 
 gta 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jono8192
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Obviously Saints Row was inspired by the blockbuster GTA series, but if you are hoping it will 
 be as good, then you are in for a letdown. The game looks really impressive. The graphics are fantastic, 
 and the sounds is really good aswell. However, these things aside, I found it very hard to get 
 into the game and didn't play it for very long at all
  
  The first thing I didn't like was the aiming system. There is no lock-on aiming in the game, instead 
 you have to manually position the cross hairs which can get a little muddled when trying to run 
 or drive at the same time. Also, in all the time I played it, my character didn't say a word. He 
 didn't even grunt when being beaten up at the very beginning. It would have been better if there 
 was a pre-scripted character with his own voice and actions.
  
  The next thing I have to complain about is the fact that you have to do annoying little side missions 
 to earn respect before taking on main story missions. These range from driving a car and avoiding 
 attention while a hooker and V. I. P get it on in the back (like they wouldn't just go somewhere 
 private) and beating up pimps and taking their girls. Although these missions are quite imaginative, 
 they are just a frustrating obstacle which you have to overcome in order to progress in the game.
 
  
  I know this game was hugely successful, but in my eyes it's a game which should be avoided. Luckily 
 I borrowed it from a freind and didn't spend any money on it. (Phew) . It will appeal to a lot of 
 people, but in my opinion, if you really want to play it, borrow it, as it isn't even worth the 
 rental charge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boomerb21
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the GTA series, I must say, this game simply was not up to par. The story lines were 
 just okay, but kept me playing. Gameplay itself is definitely not up to the genre's standards. 
 Graphics are not up to next-gen standards. Some of the side games are mildly entertaining, but 
 still not good enough.
  
  Volition's debut (I think ? ) is overrated, not up to standards, and I'm not sure why people are 
 so psyched for the sequel. Rockstar reigns supreme in this area.
  
  Anyway, I played through the storyline, and traded it in... what did that money go to? Part of my 
 reserve on a copy of GTA IV
  
  
  Don't Bother 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oozyyy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:11 pm PT
Review:  the game has lots of different mission/ activities and it will keep you busy. Also the character 
 creation is very detailed, and there are various weapons you can choose from, form pistols to rpgs. You 
 have to find various hidden spots to tag, or hidden cds. The game is alot like gta but a good game. 
 Also if you get bored you can just run around and kill people and drive around. So if you like 
 gta then you should definetly get the game. A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorCain501
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a awesome action packed game from THQ and Volition inc. Its a free roaming game with 
 tons of main to side missions . You start the game by chossing a character and his attributes . 
 Then you join Third Street Saints gang to eliminate your opponents in the city . The games graphics 
 / visuals are nice , soundquality is excellent , the radio soundtracks simply awesome , AI is very 
 smart .The game has a huge world to explore and its very colourful . The game's characters are 
 memorable. Voiceactings and cutscenes are done very nicely .Storyline is excellent.
  
  You get awesome vechiles , clothing , weapons in the game. You can explore the city entirely at 
 your own pace ( without doing any missions) .Unforunately you don't get any air vechiles like choppers 
 , planes to ride . You get to choose your own homies to defend you too. You have to do lots of 
 side activities like racing , highjacking , escort etc to fill up your respect bar. Once your respect 
 bar fills up you get to unlock and play main story missions .If your homies loses health , he dosen't 
 die you can revive him up again to help you . You get to unlock safe houses , special cars , hoods 
 , homies as you more progress in the game . You get to earn cash in missions to buy your favourite 
 foodings , weapons , cars , clothes etc .The foodings revive your health. If you complete the game 
 100 % you get perfect ending to the story . The game is resembling GTA series but its awesome in 
 its own rights .The game has online mode too and its very fun. The gameplay is very lenghty . I 
 recommend this game highly to action lovers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pigpusha
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  yo can do what weve u what to do rob store kill peoble street race pimp out rides go on line the 
 online is fun it would be better if they would of let us go in the full lobbie and not just a wearhouse 
 lol and let us have 2 player off line 2 they have a perfect game and they cuold of made it better 
 u know what im saying god i just said everthing i wanted lol god i hate this review text thing 
 lol cause after u got said what u want u can say much more lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a awesome action packed game from THQ and Volition inc. Its a free roaming game with 
 tons of main to side missions . You start the game by chossing a character and his attributes . 
 Then you join Third Street Saints gang to eliminate your opponents in the city . The games graphics 
 / visuals are nice , soundquality is excellent , the radio soundtracks simply awesome , AI is very 
 smart .The game has a huge world to explore and its very colourful . The game's characters are 
 memorable. Voiceactings and cutscenes are done very nicely .Storyline is excellent.
  
  You get awesome vechiles , clothing , weapons in the game. You can explore the city entirely at 
 your own pace ( without doing any missions) .Unforunately you don't get any air vechiles like choppers 
 , planes to ride . You get to choose your own homies to defend you too. You have to do lots of 
 side activities like racing , highjacking , escort etc to fill up your respect bar. Once your respect 
 bar fills up you get to unlock and play main story missions .If your homies loses health , he dosen't 
 die you can revive him up again to help you . You get to unlock safe houses , special cars , hoods 
 , homies as you more progress in the game . You get to earn cash in missions to buy your favourite 
 foodings , weapons , cars , clothes etc .The foodings revive your health. If you complete the game 
 100 % you get perfect ending to the story . The game is resembling GTA series but its awesome in 
 its own rights .The game has online mode too and its very fun. The gameplay is very lenghty . I 
 recommend this game highly to action lovers . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vecnastears
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  The game has some warping issues (warping into and out of cars, cars warping away, things just 
 magically appear in a lot of places, the Havok engine appears to have bit off more than it can 
 chew on this game) . But it is all in all a very very nice game. The city can get tedious and some 
 of the side quests are really difficult but the rewards are worth it. Some of the cars are just 
 incredible. I had a really tough time with some of the races even with souped up cars however. 
 This game is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gullman6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite game right now. When i first got it i thought it was going to suck but i was 
 wrong. There are so many activities in this game. One activity is high jacking where you get a 
 time limit to high jack a car and return it to the place. There is also an activity where you drive 
 a stripper around, drug trafficking in this one your prety much a body guard. Also there is racing, 
 demolition derby. hitman. There are also things you have to find like CD's and tagging spots. The 
 missions for the most part are easy, all the videos are cool when you pass missions. Another cool 
 part about this game is that by passing games you get territory from other gangs, and those gangs 
 try to get there territory back so you have to kill the leaders its really fun. Also you can buy 
 clothes weapons cars. This game is a must buy for people that like killing and gangs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargrudge
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:43 am PT
Review:  Though this game looks like the average GTA ripoff, you can rest assured that Saints Row is no 
 ordinary wannabe. You regenerate your health when taking no damage, a navigation line on the hud 
 map assists in you finding where your trying to go, and a semi-diverse range of weapons to destroy 
 people and their vehicles never gets dull. Need cash? Steal a car with a passenger in it and take 
 them for a little joy ride . They'll give up anywhere between a few hundred to a couple thousand 
 dollars if you don't get stopped by the cops or let the hostage (s) escape. You can steal a wide 
 variety of cars, trucks, SUVs, vans, semi trucks, and even construction equipment. Almost every 
 car is customizable in some way, and there is almost no limit to how many cars you can own. As 
 for the character, only two things can't be changed; the players height and gender. Everything 
 else is totally up to the user. Make him the fattest gangster ever, or the craziest nerd the world 
 has ever seen, your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gakselso
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Whole lotta GTA comparison going on... I guess that's inevitable. I didn't play San Andreas, but 
 Vice City rocked my world. Mostly the setting and music did it for me, though. Saint's Row stands 
 on it's own just fine. The graphics are grand, sound fx are fun and the activities are all totally 
 (in) appropriate! There's alot of nice touches scattered all over; nice animations, wicked fun ragdoll, 
 and cool ways to mess people up. Awsome. I really enjoy these sandbox games where I can just mess 
 around without worrying too much about completing anything at that moment. The soundtrack is a 
 little rap heavy, but you can just change stations to a rock one in the car, if that's your preference.
 
  
  I found the need for the Respect meter to be filled an interesting deterent to just blazing through 
 the games missions, though that is quite time consuming. Perhaps I'm not a great player, but some 
 missions have taken me _many_ retries, to the point where it's forget chasing this guy down... 
 how do I get me an RPG? (which works, btw, dead is dead, and you can just buy the darn RPG at the 
 local weapons concern) . Regarldess Respect is a great incentive to go out and drive som hos around, 
 steal some cars, or make some hits.
  
  The ability to customize things is really emphasized in Saints Row but I found myself not too concerned 
 with it after pimping out myself to a degree and then doing up a few cars, I lost interest. But 
 if that's your thing there's a whole lotta flexibility here! Huge selections of clothes, bling, 
 a plastic surgeon to rearrange your face and wick chopshops with enormous amounts of customization 
 available for cars.
  
  Aside from the music one of my only gripes is the lack of personality of the main character. I 
 think the silent route was the wrong one; one of the things that makes GTAs great is that the main 
 character is usually well voice acted (Ray Liotta was pure genius!) . The main dude being mute just 
 makes him a pure avatar absolutely devoid of any personality other than your own destructive nature. 
 All the other characters are well acted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whyme122
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is just another GTA ripoff, with the execption of the drugs and booze. Saints Row is 
 more a less a San Andreas game because your in a gang called the Third Street Saints. This game 
 is full of free roam action and guns. This game is for the poser who likes ripoff games. The storyline 
 is very short and kind of hard to follow. The game has a good car customization and character customization. 
 Thats basically only good thing about this game. If you like to save $30 avoid this game. Seriously 
 don't buy this game. Really don't buy it really!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyranger147
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is one of the best game ever to be presented to the 360. It has a massive gameplay in 
 witch it would take weeks, maybe months to start to get boring. You can doing almost anything, 
 from customizing cars, to customizing your character, the game will never get boring. The game 
 has a pretty large gameplay area, although its nothing like San Andreas. The graphics are first-class 
 all the way and the sound is good to. The missions are also fun and exciting. There are about 30-40 
 missions, not counting side missions. The thing iI didn't like about the game was that you had 
 to earn respect to do a mission. The thing i liked the most was the customizable cars and the fact 
 you could rob stores. The definitely earns a spot on on the 360 top ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nymets819
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  Best Game! Ranks up there with the Godfather game and GTA. U will never regret it when u buy it 
 or rent it. It has great graphics, an keeps you hooked to the very end. The game has many twists 
 and turns when it comes down to the end, and you never know what may happen when you're on a boat 
 with the new mayor of the town...... Never want to put down the controller, the hardest part is 
 getting Angelo on the plane. Mind Grabbing Saints Row delivers an ultimate experiance in the games 
 similiar to GTA, Godfather etc. Better be SR2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kungfubu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is easily the best Action Adventure game since Grand Theft Auto. It is one best sandbox 
 games out for the 360. I love the realism and the people look real ,act real, and respond real to 
 events happening in front of their faces. another amazing thing about Saints Row is the physics 
 engine things fall real. like for instance if you get hit by car your going to go flying. also 
 it depends on the size of the car the weight of the car and how fast the car was going and with 
 those key points a hit and run will never happen the same way twice. i would have to say the only 
 thing that surprised me was the game was kinda short but it has so many other good things about 
 it though so that fills the spaces and makes a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TazmanianDiablo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:51 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a GTA that came out for the 360. It is very realistic a little more than other GTA. 
 I say this because if your door is open and you wanna hit some people with that door you can plus 
 the door will slam into the car throwing the person in the air. Another thing is if you drive over 
 them head on they will fly like theres no tomarrow. What its about is a guy in a gang filled neighborhood 
 making the 3rd Street Saints go to the top and own stillwater. There are 3 other gangs to go throught 
 Los Carnales, Westside Rollers and lastly Vice kings. Thats all im really going to say so i wont 
 spoil it. The online play wasnt really exciting like i thought it would be but there was a game 
 mode i liked. It was called Bling out Ride. What that is is you have to kill the other team to 
 pick up there money so you get enough money and once you get enough up to lvl 4 you go to a lil 
 marked area and must keep it there for about 30 secs. Another bad thing about it is the lag and 
 matchmaking. This isnt some quick lagg its so bad if u see someone on the other side of the map 
 they will end up in front of you while your dead confused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: young_x25
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  this game was pretty good for being a GTA knock off...... there were some trouble spots though. 
 One was a weak sound track, another is the feel of it was akward and unrealistic. although the 
 world was very customizable and the car modding was great. The story line was pretty solid. i liked 
 that there were differnt gangs to take down and they each had there own strongholds to ambush. 
 The free roaming gameplay is always a plus. the only thing though is that the rags to riches story 
 in a free roaming setting has already been established by Rockstar games, and quite frankly...... 
 they do it much better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robarts
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 13, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  It's too bad that if any game is in the same genre as an already established hit, it gets criticized. Almost 
 every FPS that comes out gets compared with halo, and if any driving open ended sandbox game comes 
 out it's a GTA ripoff. Though, for the most part these imitators end up being pretty bad, rarely 
 you get one that stands out.
  
  Saints Row is mission based like GTA, reminiscent of GTA 3 in the fact that you only drive cars, 
 and is almost exactly like GTA 3 in every aspect. So derivitative yes, but it also does four major 
 things way better than any GTA game in the past. It has an extremely smooth third person shooter 
 mechanic instead of a lock on feature, it looks better than GTA ever did, it has an excellent waypoint 
 system in the map, and the action in Saints just heats up a lot quicker and is more intense than 
 GTA. Now, is it better than GTA?. NO most definately not. GTA has more style, better humor, and alot 
 more players can do.
  
  At the beginning of the game you create your thug in a pretty deep charater creation system. I've 
 seen replicas of the Penguin (Batman) , and many other familiar faces. What's even better is that 
 you can also create an online character, providing you have played enough games to get some money. Without 
 the money you will only have the most basic options for your character, but i'll get to the online 
 later.
  
  After the initial creation you'll see a cut-scene putting your character right in the middle of 
 a shootout between three gangs, ending with you being saved by Julius who happens to be the leader 
 of the Saints. You are then recruited and begin trying to retake control of Saints Row and soon 
 enough the entire city of Stillwater. The mission structure of the game is pretty good, and for 
 the most part pretty familiar. Except one major factor, you have to have enough respect to do any 
 said mission. You gain this by doing activities like insurance fraud where you throw your character 
 in front of oncoming traffic to gain insurance money, mayhem where you destroy as many things as 
 you can, and other fun little things. There are hitman, races, hijacking, drug trafficking, escort, hostage, hold 
 ups, and all sorts of other things you can do for money and respect. Doing these is fun, but sometimes 
 it may get frustrating to have to do some activity half way across the map just to advance in the 
 story.
  
  Speaking of the story, it is pretty good if you can stomach all the foul language. The cut scenes 
 are great and feature some really great looking and memorable characters. The voice acting is all 
 extremely well done and the game has an all star cast pulling them off as well. So the graphics 
 and sound are good in cut scenes but what about gameplay right?
  Well, you'll be happy to know this game looks just as good in play as it does in the cut scenes. Except 
 for a few instances where pop in occurs, and sometimes the entire city in front of you will dissapear 
 for a few seconds until the streaming engine catches up to you. These are odd little glitches, but 
 we are all use to this by now considering every GTA game had the same problems. Other than that 
 though the game has solid graphics and some really cool looking explosions that can send people 
 flying, whether it's the explosion itself or the debri hitting them or you. The sound is also great 
 giving a nice kick to the explosions and gunfire, and the game features a nice soundtrack. If you 
 can, plug this into a 5.1 surround setup, you won't regret it. Your neighbors might though.
  
  The single player game can take about twenty hours or more to complete. Maybe less according 
 to how well you play and after that the game features some really fun multiplayer. Which is actually 
 a first for the genre. You can play games online earn money and create an online identity as well, 
 as I mentioned before. This makes keeps players from seeing the same character over and over. It 
 also adds to the fact that you can create your own gang and face rival gangs online. The game has 
 four main five gametypes. Gangsta brawl and team gansta brawl are just the regular deathmatch adding 
 in cars and some pretty big levels for fun. Protect the pimp is kinda like a VIP mode in which one 
 player plays as a pimp who cannot use weapons and defends himself usong a pimpslap move if needed 
 and the other players either keep him alive or try to take him down. Then there is Big Ass Chains 
 where players simply bling themselves out and kill each other for bling. The final versus mode is 
 called Blinged out Ride, in this mode players on each side start with an old junker of a car and 
 try to gain enough money by killing and dropping off the chain to pimp it out. The first team to 
 get there car to level 4 and show it off in the designated area wins. These modes are all pretty 
 fun and will like ly be played for some time. The one mode I haven't mentioned is co-op and that's 
 simply because it's almost non existent. It has two maps and just pits players against a bunch of 
 enemies to either kill or try to get past and deliver an object. It's really dull though and I rarely 
 ever see anyone playing it, for good reason too.
  
  This game has been called many things from derivative, clone, and unimaginative. All being true, 
 but if you can ignore the GTA fan in yourself and play Saints for what it is you'll find that it's 
 a fun, good looking game with some nice additions to the GTA formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guun63
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 10, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great Xbox 360 game.
  
  It gets most of its ideas from games like the Gta series.
  But its not just some new GTA clone, 
 though many says it is, but i don't think it deserves that tittle.
  Cause it brings some many cool new things to the genre, just the way you can customise you character, 
 and you can pimp you car, which i think is so cool.
  You can simply do so many things in Saints Row, try to complete all the Activities is one thing 
 you can do, and many of them are really cool and fun to play.
  One of the is called Mayhem where you have to go destroy anything you see, people, cars &amp; things 
 like stop signs it all gives points and its really cool because of the way cars explode looks really 
 nice. you can robe stores &amp; steal hors from pimp those suckers. And the list just keeps going 
 on, all i can say is if you are look for a game and you just got a 360 the this game is a great 
 game to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldelite60
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is really addictive, the graphics may not be as good as other games out there these days 
 but they're still pretty good. The game itself is like a GTA style game except that it has more 
 of a plot to it where you help out a gang after they safe your life, to take on the other rival 
 gangs and rule the entire city of Stilwater. There's also interesting features to this game in 
 that you can customize your look, both physically and with different syles of clothes and bling. 
 You can also customize any car that you jack or buy one from a dealership and give it a totally 
 sweet look. Another interesting thing is that you can't just play mission after mission until you've 
 beaten the game, some people find it annoying but I think its a great idea. It makes people do 
 things like competing a demo derby kidnapping hostages, acting like a hitman, and my two favourites 
 insurance fruad and mayhem. A lot of people believe that this can get annoying when you want to 
 complete the climax portion of a gang to find out what happens next but they don't have enough 
 respect. Its not a problem though if you did what I did which was to get as much respect as possible 
 before starting to take down a gang. That way you can get through the entire thing without having 
 to stop to do something you don't want to do. The cop response system is bad in some ways as they 
 won't come after you if they see you speeding or jumping on cars with shotguns. When they do come 
 after you, however, you start with squad car pursuits which can quickly turn into SWAT blockades, 
 aerial opservation, and later pursuit by the FBI. This game is highly addictive as you'll have 
 loads of fun just by stealing people's cars, ramming over cars with buldozers and heavy trucks 
 and watching them explode. Speaking of explosions I haven't talked about the weapons yet. You'll 
 get everything from melee weapons which will either be a knife, crowbar, police nigtstick, or just 
 your fists. Pistols range from the gangsta Vice-9 to the high powered FBI GDC .50. You get grenades, 
 pipe bombs, shotguns, rifles, and even RPGs!! Its an explosive combination that can bring entertainment 
 to anyone. If you haven't already gotten the game what are you standing around looking at the computer 
 for? GO OUT AND GET IT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimateICON
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row on Xbox 360 has an immersive and complex storyline. This GTA styled games will keep 
 you on the go for a long time with its many activities and missions. This game is all about the 
 urban lifestyle and how a gangsters life is. This game is about the city of Stillwater and how 
 you as a recruited soldier of the Saints must fight towards retaking at back. This game is set 
 in the 90's with many shops to buy clothes from and many more items. Saints Row missions are in 
 a category type setting. For example if you want to take out the Vice Kings first (they are just 
 one of the gangs) you can work towards that by completing just their missions so that you can understand 
 the story much better.
  
  The games many activities are useful for unlocking new missions in Saints Row. The highly addictive 
 activities include Escort, Racing, Demolition Derby and surprisingly even able to be a Hit man. 
 These activities are solid and will keep you going for a while on its own.
  
  This game has got an arsenal of weapons like the RPG Launcher which will come in handy when you 
 want to let's say take out that helicopter that is been following you after you stole that store 
 which everyone's been bragging about. The game also features over a 100 destructible objects. In 
 Saints row you can also find a gang. Let's say if someone is trying to take over your territory 
 you can call a couple of guys from the street or through your cell phone.
  
  This game has also got an amazing multiplayer mode with tones of different types of modes for you 
 to play from. This game also features a mode called 'Big Ass Chain' and many more.
  
  Overall I think that Saints Row is an absolutely well finished game which's got pieces of originality 
 in it. This game is worth playing and it worth buying. This game I ashore you will definitely keep 
 even the most hardcore gamer in this chairs playing Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syphondude
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game is perfect in many ways. If you don't like games were you can create a character, walk 
 into any store with little loading time, robbing places, shooting out of your cars, and killing 
 people with tons of different guns then I don't know I don't have an a clue what kinds of games 
 are good to you. The graphics are great and gameplay is great. Even driving is extremely fun but 
 usually in games driving is the worst part. Multiplayer is also really good because you and your 
 friends can join the same gang and beat the crap out of other players. You can also play as your 
 character as well as other players. Even if you can't roam the city in multiplayer its still a 
 great fun to play multiplayer on saints row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champhf
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:42 am PT
Review:  put everything on hold and imerse yourself in a world of saints row, i read alot of reviews and 
 im going to tell you this is a must have for anyones collection. got a few hours to kill ...? then 
 grab your pistol and start earing some respect around here. the first time i played i was tottaly 
 hooked and yes it is similar to GTA in the sence your free to explore the entire game then pick 
 up and start the missions but that is were it ends for me. i do like the fact i can save at any 
 point and then pick up later and the graphics are great the explosions are BIG.... the map it BIG 
 and you do get drawn in to this world. i know it came out a while ago but im tottaly hooked i recomend 
 this game to anyone who just got a 360 and looking for a game that will keep them entertained for 
 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiffioons
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty fun. Had enough missions and activities to keep me busy for a good while, 
 and replay isn't bad. The controls for driving and while on foot are easy to get used to. The weapon 
 selection has some nice options, and choosing one from your armory is fairly quick and easy it 
 can sometimes be distracting. Great storyline and great voice-acting (though the main character 
 is mostly silent throughout) . Graphics and physics (including cool lookin shock waves when things 
 explode) were done really well. But what was REALLY fun, was when the game would inexplicably freeze 
 for no reason. I can't even begin to explain the joy I'd have sitting frozen in mid-air as if I 
 were in a car but not actually seeing one. Then as an added bonus I couldn't even shut down my 
 360 remotely. Ok, so it wasn't fun, it sucked horribly, but besides that and the target system 
 taking a long time to get used to (manual targeting throughout) it really was a fairly fun game. 
 Oh yeah, customization options were pretty nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shenron43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  At first you might feel that it is a GTA knock-off, but then you'll notice its totally different. 
 This game feels like GTA but is nothing like it. It has its own unique feel to it. Its something 
 that GTA fans would love for a change. It might seem like a dumb game at first, but if you play 
 it for a while you'll see its awesome game play. It will keep you busy for hours on end. If you 
 are a person playing to get achievement points than might not be the game for you. There are many 
 achievements and they all have low point values. But still if you just want a fun game to play 
 than this is definitely it. So if your a fan of GTA check Saint's Row out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  When you start out in Stillwater there are four gangs The 3rd Street Saints, The Vice Kings, The 
 Westside Rollers, and the The Los Carnales. You start out in the Saints, who have the least amout 
 of territory. The Rollers control the west, Los Carnales controls the south, and The Vice Kings 
 conrol the north. You can start on whatever gang you want after the first couple of missions. And 
 you can jump between gang missions, by that I mean you can do a mission for The Westside Rollers 
 and the do one for The Vice Kings. And on top of the missions there are Strongholds. And after 
 you complete certain missions or take over Strongholds you get that area of land. Then keep going 
 till you own the whole city, and then after that there are still three missions.
  
  There are many different cars. And you can even customise them to a certain extent. And there are 
 four Cribs you can get, but they all have the same garage so if you store a car in you can get 
 it at all the others. Plus after you take out each gang you get some of their nicer cars in your 
 garage.
  
  There are also a lot of weapons. There are melee weapons, pistols, RPG's, grenades, shotguns, and 
 a few other types.
  
  There are few different ways to get money. You can rob stores by holding up the cashire, you can 
 break into their safe, or destroy the cash register. And you can do some of the missions to get 
 money. And sometimes when you kill people they give you money.
  
  Activities are also fun to do when you don't want to do the storyline. There is:
  
  Racing: 
 which is just racing.
  
  Snatch: Where you steal prostitutes from pimps and give them to other pimps.
  
  Escort: You 
 drive a stripper around while you pick up her clients and keep away from the media, and do things 
 the the client requests.
  
  Drug Trafficking: You go with the dealer and protect him.
  
  Hitman: You go and find people on your list and take them out.
  
  Incurance Fraud: You 
 have to go to certain area and once you do you have time limit. You get the ability to go limp 
 and not get hurt whenever you want. So once that timer starts fall from high distances and get 
 in front cars and go limp.
  
  Demolition Durby: You get to drive a car in the Demo Durby.
  
  Chop Shop: Go out on the street 
 and find the cars they need with the required specifications and take them back.
  
  Mayhem: Go to designated area and use your weapons to cause all the destruction you can in the 
 time given. Plus you get bonus for useing different weapons or destroying different thing when 
 prompted.
  
  Hijacking: Go get the certain persons car your told to.
  
  Loan Office: You can go to the Loan Shark and borrow form $5,000 to $50,000, and you have 12 days 
 to pay it off. And if not the Loan Sharks will come after you.
  
  Tagging: You can go to all the designatedspots and spraypaint over they other gangs tags.
  
 
  And after you do so many parts of each activity you will get specials like new clothes, or weapons, 
 or power ups for your weapons, and even discounts.
  
  Around the city there are 60 CD's that you can find and once you grab so many you will get a free 
 song. And if you get all 60 there is an achievement.
  
  In Stillwater there are lots of store, there's weapon store, stores that sell drugs and alchohol, 
 there's some music stores, tatoo shops, and a couple more mentioned on the radio that don't exsist.
 
  
  Multiplayer in this game is fun. You are even able to make your own online gang. You get all the 
 same weapons, the maps are all different, and there are only a few different cars. There are about 
 10 gamemodes with about half being team and the other half single but the same game. But, this 
 game has a very bad lag. And even if you try to take cover then you can still be shot through it.
 
  
  There is a little bit of downloadable content most of it is free. But there is some you can spend 
 money on. Most of the achievements are fun to get and some are very frusturating. You get one for 
 completing each activity, and one for completing all the activities. There are some you get for 
 the story. There are some really random secret ones. And there are a few Multiplayer ones that 
 are secrets are hard to get if you don't know what they are.
  
  So I would say buy this game and play it for a while because it can be really fun even after you 
 beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbird991
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Volition's Saints Row is an impressive game --in most respects. The core missions, side missions, 
 the controls and flow of the game, the graphics and sound, they're all solid and smartly designed. 
 This game feels and plays better than most, if not all, of the other GTA clones. But is it better 
 than Rockstar's benchmark? On the whole -- Not a chance. But in very specific areas? Yes, absolutely. 
 Saints Row is a study in how to copy a model in order to improve upon it, and Volition should get 
 full credit for taking one of the hardest games to replicate, copying it right down to the character 
 font, and improving upon it. Does it feel like a rip-off? Yeah. Is the harsh and often overly crude 
 humor a step down from GTA's? Yeah. Does Volition's brash desire to show off hip-hop culture feel 
 crass and painful? Oh yeah. But Saints Row, despite its distinct lack of originality, is fun. It 
 starts out fun and it stays fun. It gets deeper and more engaging, and the storyline and the characters 
 come to life, and you're compelled by seeing the narrative unfold just as much as getting all of 
 the 10- and 20-point Achievements. Saints Row offers a kick-ass online mode with at least two out 
 of four compelling online modes totally worth your while. Hate it if you want to, snicker at its 
 obvious me-too qualities, but don't forget to recognize impressive, kick-ass gameplay as you walk 
 out the door. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strezz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so i like free roaming games, like GTA and Crackdown (After all the patches and add-on's) , 
 and this is no different!
  Saints Row takes the whole gang's in the hood theme, and re-invents the whole... no wait; It actually 
 dont! It takes what works from other free roaming games, and improves on them, and on top of that, 
 there's a whole bunch of clever and different missions to go thru...
  
  There are flaws in Saints Row too, but nothing that ruin the overall experience, and as one of 
 the first next-gen titles to have free roaming, it really does really really well. You get to design 
 your own look's, and then you head out to a city, which is both big and interesting!
  In my opinion, the city size is just right, and allthough i did like the space presented in GTA: 
 SA, this is just right for the game... Where GTA: SA sometimes felt a little desserted, you wont 
 have that feeling in Saints Row..
  
  So give it a spin, if you get the chance, and if you happen to love it like i do, then you need 
 to know thata THQ is working on a sequel! :)
  
  CHeers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparkycolts
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:34 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Excellent
  
  Sound/Music: Superb
  
  Controls: It took a while to get use to, but well thought out. I did switch the gas and brake controls 
 for the car though.
  
  Game play: Excellent
  
  Characters: Good, but YOUR CHARACTER DOES NOT SPEAK.
  
  Value: Moderate Frame rate: Poor at 
 times. You can see lines cross the scree a lot throughout the game, and will see the freeway floating 
 in the air as well. I was interesting to see cars appear and disappear in a flash.
  
  I enjoyed this game. It was one of the first 360 games that I had bought when it came out, and 
 I just finished the game. That should tell you something. THE THING THAT I THOUGHT WAS ODD WAS 
 THAT YOUR CHARACTER DOES NOT SPEAK 99.9999% OF THE GAME. HE HAS A FEW ON E LINERS AT THE END OF 
 THE GAME, AND THAT IS IT. THAT IS WHAT MAKES THESE GAMES STAND OUT, THE SARCASTIC HUMOR AND COMEBACKS 
 FROM THE CHARACTERS. THERE WAS NONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shismoov
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I was excited to get this game because I love FRAA games and this had great reviews. When I got 
 the game I immediately was disappointed in the graphics. hardly any blood, the characters looked 
 like garbage and the real-time car damage is almost non-existent. Although there were some parts 
 of the game I liked, there were too many parts I didn't. The activities are boring except for a 
 few and the AI is so unrealistic they can practically dodge bullets. Not to mention the fact that 
 there are no head shot kills in the game, and do get me started on the ending. I would definitely 
 recommend this game, but I would trade it as soon as Oct. 16 rolls around. As there will be no 
 further need for this ridiculous knock-off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:23 am PT
Review:  Since it was the first game to provide a GTA type look &amp; feel on the next-generation consoles, 
 it has done an excellent job in doing so. Story is nice. Graphics looks nice, great shadow &amp; 
 lightening effects. Homie's option is absolutely great. Unlike Grand Theft Auto series it has No 
 taxies or Ambulance or these sort of side missions, the side missions provided in the game are 
 nevertheless good. The city is vast and some what beautiful
  Few graphics glitches especially when you are driving the car on the highway and your car disappears 
 :P, &amp; you are stuck in an invisible car, you can; t get out or anything. Apart from that the 
 voice acting was reasonably good. All said this game looks and plays really very well &amp; just 
 provides a glimpse of how good the Grand Theft Auto IV will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row fed (or is still feeding) your GTA IV need if you own a 360. On Saint's Row you become 
 a member of the 3rd Street Saints a street gang. Fellow gang members like Johnny and Troy will 
 help u out on some missions. There are 36 sections of land in Stillwater (where the game takes 
 place) . Your not just going to capture easily 3 other gangs control the area. The Vice Kings, Los 
 Carnales and the West Side Rollerz. Each gang has a good amount of missions to do. But you have 
 to have a certain amount of respect. To get respect you can do missions. Go pimping, destroy a 
 whole lot of things in mayhem or get insurance fraud. There are some others to do too. You earn 
 cash also. You can buy cars, clothes, jewelry and weapons. Also if u want food at Freckle B! tche's 
 and drugs and alchol at Brown Bagger's. Yea it keeps GTA's funny names.
  OVerall the gameplay is great 9-10.
  
  The graphics are actuall better than GTA's PS2 and Xbox 
 graphics. You can see blood squirt from people (gory) . Plus the fire looks pretty cool. The cars 
 and people look about the same as the GTA graphics. The clothes look really good. The people walk 
 around like normal people. So that is all good.
  8-10
  
  The sound is great. Plus there is some great music on here. Three-6 Mafia has my favorite song 
 from them on this game. The voice acting is good not like your character talks in this game at 
 all. He does scream when on fire. Overall its pretty good. 8-10
  
  Saint's Row is a great game. I like it the Xbox Live could have been better. Overall i recommend 
 this game to fans of GTA.
  
  A good solid game!
  
  8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackthegame
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is basically a next generation grand theft auto, but a little more interesting. the 
 best thing about the game is that you dont just do the missions, first you have to earn respect 
 by completing activities, which are like the side missions in grand theft auto. another cool thing 
 is that you can make your own character and dress him with basically anything. and there are so 
 many different types of cars that you never get bored of it, the costumization is just amazing. 
 in the other hand you dont get to ride bikes, motorcycles, or boats but that dosent really matter 
 because im more like a car guy. So if you have a 360 and you are a GTA fan you should really get 
 this game. you wont be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peekay6969
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This game has the look and feel of GTA but it also feels like it took what was missing/wrong in 
 GTA and made it perfect. The controls are very smooth and responsive. The game allows you to roam 
 freely and play at your on pace. Driving around in the many different city environments is visually 
 stunning. I never had so much fun blowing things up in a game!
  
  My only complaint is that some missions are very hard and suffer from lack from any save anywhere 
 feature. With that said, the AI is intuitive and keeps the gameplay interesting.
  
  This is an ideal game for those of you out there waiting for the next installment of GTA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teh_Jakester
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  While not as good as GTA, Saints Row will probably be the next big crime game franchise. I will 
 be comparing it to GTA San Andreas during this review.
  
  Story:
  Okay, this is where both games fail. You basically have to make your gang #1 through both. San 
 Andreas' is more involved, but CJ isn't as gangsta as the (almost) mute of Saints Row.
  
  Weapons:
  I'll give this to Row. The aiming system allows you to aim your gun without pressing 
 50 million buttons! OMFG!! But Row's arsenal is a bit lacking. And WTF with having to choose between 
 an assault rifle and a sniper.
  
  Character Customization:
  Row. You create your own character, and decide every aspect of his appearance. There's no option 
 for you to play as a girl, though. Sad.
  
  Cast:
  Row's cast isn't as good as SA's, but that would be hard. I mean, SA had Sammie Jackson! YAY!! 
 The cast is good, but I would have perferred some more big names.
  
  Vehicles:
  In Row you're confined to cars, unlike in SA, where you can use boats and planes and stuff. But 
 you can SWIM in this game! I never would have expected this from a first effort! It took GTA 6 
 games to do this!
  
  Graphics:
  Row's graphics are great, especially in HD. And their fingers aren't glued together like in SA.
 
  
  This is one of the two games you should pick up right away when buying a 360. (The other being 
 Oblivion) If you like GTA, you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwijiibo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  GTA clones. They $uck. We just have to admit it. But man, Saints Row is far from a GTA rip off. 
 It may have the same gameplay as GTA, a thug running and gunning down others but, it does it so 
 well and refined that it is a new fresh breath of air for the free-roaming genre. First off, the 
 controls are a load more superrior than GTA. A third person game with first person controls may 
 sound weird but its actually geneous. Running and gunning is more fun than ever and the fact that 
 you can shoot 360 degress while your driving really helps especially in later missions. It even 
 has a multiplayer element and even if its not as refined as Gears of War or Halo, it has great 
 moments that will immerse you in the game.
  
  + Character custimization is great
  + Gorgeous visuals
  + Terrific audio, from the guns, to the radio stations, to the voice work
 
  + Lots of weapons at your disposal
  + Very diverse cars, enviorments, and characters
  + Multiplayer element with up to 16 players and some Co-Op missions
  + Contrrols are tight and 
 immpressive
  + Lots of; Huh. Why didnt anyone thing of that earlier? moments
  + Variety in missions and gameplay and is just a superb game
  
  - Lots of language, and at 
 times is not really needed
  - Sexual humor makes lots of apperances and is at times disgusting
  - Multiplayer, while good, 
 still has a room for improvement
  - Some graphical glitches and frame rate issues.
  - For such a great game you'd think that the ending wouldnt suck
  
  Even with flaws its a great 
 game. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRealChrono
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is really amazing, in the sense that it is the only game, to date, that has copied the 
 GTA style of sand-box. The graphics are really good, and the game play is even better, and I don't 
 see why this game is rated so low. The graphics from what I see are superior to GTA4, and it is 
 overall just as good, and has alot of potential.
  
  The control scheme is superior to GTA, in the sense of weapons, and actually taking skill to shoot, 
 instead of auto-aim... some may not agree with this, but I feel this is the way these style games 
 should play. The weapon selection is also good, although sometime faulty. Driving controls are 
 good as well, and equal to that, if not funner, than GTA...
  
  The soundtrack is also very good, but not better than the likes of GTA. The overall sound is very 
 good, and it shows a lot of nice touches, such as being able to hear music coming out of the car 
 from traffic.
  
  The only thing that hurts this game, is the little bugs you get here and there. Other than that, 
 the content and things to do may seem overly aggressive. However, it is also a good thing if you 
 enjoy playing this game...
  
  All in all, this is, in my opinion, a must-have for any Xbox 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_rip
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is Volition's first attempt at an open word, Grand Theft Auto-like game. You may remember 
 these guys from the Red Faction series. However, Saints Row is a real departure from their previous 
 first-person shooter attempts.
  You play as a no-name thug who is literally caught in the crossfire during a gang battle. After 
 being helped by Julius, leader of the 3rd Street Saints, you join the ranks of the Saints, and 
 so begins the plot of another Grand Theft Auto clone. But wait... This one is... Good??
  Yes, Saints Row is a good game, but by no means is it up to par with ahem... other games of the 
 genre. The game is solidly built and the fully open-ended city of Stilwater is immense. You could 
 spend hours just exploring the city evading the cops because you beat down a stranger on the sidewalk. 
 At times, mainly when driving on the highway, you'll experience some pretty bad pop-ins as the 
 area ahead of you comes into view. In many cases, the road beneath you will just disappear and 
 the skyline will become totally blank as your 360 struggles to render the rest of the environment. 
 On the good side, this game features some great-looking particle effects, textures, and shadows. 
 There is some occasional slow-down when too much is happening on screen at once, and this can get 
 in the way of the gameplay sometimes. The last thing I need when I'm running and gunning for my 
 life is the frame-rate dropping into the 10's or even single digits.
  The sound is handled fantastically. The guns emit a staccato rat-a-tat-tat and the rpg and grenades 
 create a satisfying, percussive thud. And of course, what would a GTA clone be without an abundance 
 of radio stations to peruse? This is one spot that Saints Row has nailed down. These stations include 
 genres such as rap, hip-hop, rock, classical, and yes... talk radio. The game includes tons of 
 music, if you wish, you may import your own music.
  The difficulty is somewhat erratic. Some missions can be easily accomplished in just minutes, while 
 others will have you loading previous saves until you want to cry and give up. There isn't too 
 much variety here, as most missions boil down to either escorting, killing, or most commonly, both.
 
  The multiplayer is a mess. Just finding a joinable game in matchmaking can take a solid five to 
 ten minutes. Instead of a traditional lobby, Saints Row features a small warehouse complete with 
 weapon pickups to run around in before you begin searching for an actual match. Sometimes, this 
 can be more fun than a real online game. Once you get into a match, assuming the host hasn't left 
 at this point, you'll find that Saints Row's multiplayer was obviously the developer's afterthought. 
 There are only three maps available for competitive play, and just a couple for co-op. None of 
 these maps are too interesting, and overall, they feel like they aren't very well thought out. 
 One of the more fun parts of Saints Row is buying new clothes for your character. Unfortunately, 
 in the multiplayer mode, you are only able to import your character's physical appearance, and 
 not their clothing. This means that getting back that sweet pimp coat from single playing is going 
 to take hours upon hours of devoted multiplayer gameplay. But sadly, the multiplayer just isn't 
 worth it.
  Saints Row manages to create an immersive world and solid gameplay that is worth at least trying 
 out. The graphics, excluding a few imperfections, are outstanding. Without the side missions, the 
 single player doesn't take too long to finish. That wouldn't be such a problem if the multiplayer 
 wasn't so poorly developed. I'd call this one a rental. Don't pay full price on this without giving 
 it some serious thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamegod
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  It toook me ages to buy this game, i wanted the price to go down a bit before i got it because i 
 didnt think it would be worth the &pound;40 price tag, but i was wrong *sighs*, its a brilliant gta-esque 
 game with loads of great unique features aswell.
  
  Graphics - oooo sexy stuff, i love the graphics, brilliant character models, good environments, great 
 looking cars, and sweet explosions when you blow up stuff *which if you have the chance, you would...*
 
  
  Gameplay - i liked the controls, easy easy easy is the way id describe em', pick up and play is another, controls 
 for driving are also very nice, theres a few glitches, but hey, what games dont have them.
  
  Sound - crisp and goood sounding, good voice acting from all the characters, though, the npc's in 
 the street, over use some words, but, they go say something you dont like, beat the hell outta em with 
 a baseball bat. Also i have to give praise to the music in the games, theres pleanty, with loads 
 of choices for all types of music, you can even make personal playlists
  
  story - the story revolves around four gangs, the saints (your gang) the westsde rollerz, the vice 
 kings, and los canrles, all of which are different in certain ways, but all in all, through the game, you'll 
 jus kill em' all and get there mansions lol.... with exception from the main story, there are loads 
 of side missions, like hitman, male escorts, snatch and racing to name a few, which ill keep you hooked.
 
  
  Alll in all this is a very good game in my opinion, i enjoyed it more than i thought i would being 
 against chavs, and the only thing to let it down, is the abysmal live games, ust dont waste your time... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guiltygamer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  As many people know, the gta series started and has dominated this new subfield of ''sandbox'' 
 style action games. Many have tried to copy its success and omnipresent role in modern video gaming- 
 games such as Driv3r, Crackdown, and this game Saints Row. But what sets this game apart from the 
 rest is that it actually can be called a good clone one that can hold its own weight against the 
 gaint that is gta.
  
  Gameplay- If youve played GTA youve played this game except this game has a few notable additions 
 such as more minigames and more interactive enviroments as well as a few things missing such as 
 motorcycles and airplanes.
  
  Graphics- Nothing spectacular but overall very solid. Characters look nice and explosions are very 
 detailed. Advanced Physics system allows even more excitement.
  
  Sound- Overall extremely good. Gunshots sound realistic and different objects you hit actually 
 make different sounds. Pedestrians are full of pep and love to talk smack on your character. The 
 best part though is the radio. Anything you like from Wu-Tang to Bob Marley from Antonio Vivaldi's 
 Four seasons masterpiece of classical composition.
  
  Value- Tons of game but the minigames you are forced to do get very very tedious. Worth the money 
 overall though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sooner09
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is definately the best GTA clone made so far. But that isn't always a bad thing since 
 you liked GTA. This game is that good. It's like GTA but with advanced graphics and the ragdoll 
 effect which makes it look realistic. So many games have tried to live up to GTA but to no effect. 
 They all just about sucked. It's a diffrent story to Saint's Row. Better graphics with diffrent 
 activities makes this a must buy. Especially for $30. It is definitely worth the time and money. 
 And if you like killing hobos off the street, gang members and cops or robbing liquor stores, than 
 this is the game for you. Cause that is what this game provides. Don't think twice cause you don't 
 need to. It sounds violent, but if your paying money for somthing, than you do what you want with 
 it. Screw Laura Bush for what she says about violent video games. We pay for it so we get what 
 we want out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj3-undertaker
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw this game i was like aw anther stupid GTA copy bur when i got it at first it was 
 kinda slow and i wasent very impressed i was by the graphics and the sound was relly good but the 
 story wasent very good but when i got like 1 hour in to it i was like damn this is a awsome GTA 
 copy and sound is probably the best feature about this game the sound is awsome every shot is great 
 and when the bullet casing land they made a very realistic sound and they all make different sounds 
 on different surfaces which is relly impressive. the voice acting is great. the game play is awsome 
 relly fun. in the game theirs so much to do all the story missions then you have like 10 different 
 side activities which take up alot of time. and the multi player is great loads of different modes 
 and its very fun to play. in all this game is awsome deffenetly worth buying!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazy_Kid314
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Sir.... here we have a dish containing Nice Cars, Plenty of Weapons, a Cell Phone to satisfy any 
 cheaters need, and Georgeous Looks to bind it all together. Saints Row makes the law crazy and 
 any violence driven child to his/her happy point. The game involves a outstanding storyline and 
 explosions to make you giggle and say wow... that was friggin awesome . Custumization to your character 
 and vehicle is outrageous and the world is highly detailed. Then here comes the question, if this 
 is such a great game, then why did it get a 9.4. Why.... one word bugs. Filthy, Nasty, human sucking, 
 bugs. The game is sparatic with them but when it happens youll be wtf is this . You'll be going 
 full speed down the highway and the next thing you know the car is gone and you are floating in 
 air. The bugs can be annoying but everything else is top noch... buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigan12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  It would be a total lie to say that Saints Row is one of the first games to ever attempt to mimic 
 the GTA formula, but it is telling the truth to say that Saints Row comes much closer than most 
 of the other games with the same inspiration. Saints Row from the very beginning has you completely 
 customize your character with a seemingly endless array of options. From there, the story picks 
 up at a point when your character is walking through a bad part of town when he is almost killed 
 in an erupting gang war. Just before being shot in the head by one of the only survivors ( Wrong 
 place, wrong time ) you are saved by the 3rd Street Saints, who are a racially diverse gang lead 
 by Julius (Voiced by Keith David) a charismatic, street-wise man hell-bent on taking back the city 
 of Stillwater from the three rival gangs: Los Carnales, the Westside Rollerz and the Vice Kings. 
 Your character plays the sort of silent protagonist, who seems to go along with everything Julius 
 and his appointed lieutenants have cooked up. He nods in agreement and shows facial emotion but 
 aside from that, the normal grunts of pain from being shot are all that remain... The gameplay 
 takes a couple of liberations from the GTA control scheme, offering not the usual time-tested target 
 system, but rather a manual aim set-up that is native to most third person shooters. Shooting while 
 driving, or drive-bys, are performed in a similar fashion, not simply holding a shoulder button 
 and pushing the fire button to spray a fixed stream of hot lead at anything in your way (Grand 
 Theft Auto's system of choice) . But while the simple running and gunning feels a bit tighter overall, 
 the drive-by set-up in Saints Row makes it a bit more challenging to get a bead on your enemies 
 since the default control scheme has your right thumb occupied with the A and X buttons to control 
 acceleration and braking, making using the right joy stick more difficult to control while driving. 
 Thankfully Saints Row offers a liberal customization menu for those players who just can't seem 
 to get the feel of it, something GTA certainly could have used. Aside from the basic controls, 
 another big game mechanic is the respect system, now I know a lot of GTA San Andreas players are 
 going to feel gypped here, but Saints Row manages to present this rough sounding idea quite well. 
 Basically, you need to fill up your respect bar all the way in order to partake in any story missions, 
 but to do so you need to prove yourself by performing the side missions around town. Unlike in 
 GTA installments, where side missions were either normal missions that didn't really tie into the 
 story mode much, or, of course, the usual vigilante or paramedic missions that wore thin after 
 a while; Saints Row gives a fine assortment of fun activities to perform some of which include 
 but are not limited to: Mayhem, where you have a set amount of time to cause a certain amount of 
 money's worth of wanton destruction and killing, Insurance Fraud, where you have to throw yourself 
 into oncoming traffic to make a certain amout of money, and Snatch, which has you helping an up 
 and coming brothel get its business off the ground by kidnapping prostitutes and delivering them 
 to the safehouse. All of these side missions have eight levels to perform and each and every one 
 of them are fun. Overall Saints Row is a pretty great game, and I think most people out there with 
 a taste for a bit of violence ought to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghrecon02
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is classic. Lots of fun for all. If you like running over old ladies and killing everything 
 that isn't wearing purple you will love Saints Row. There are tons of things to do, unfortunatly 
 there are far too few weapons to do them with. The singleplayer will take over 30 hours to beat. 
 The multiplayer will take just under 30 seconds to realize you hate it. For the reduced price of 
 30 dollars it is definatly worth it. Bottom line, this one will get you through the lonely summer 
 months, but the multiplayer lacks even a hint of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bongunboy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  I just played the game and i have played only a few activities and the escort activity kinda sucks 
 because you need to go back to the escort place if the girl is tired and its a long way back because 
 you circle around the map to pleasure the client. The gang wars are fun and the game is not far 
 from the GTA series.
  Some of the characters look kinda funny. The game is also realistic, one time i got angry with 
 the camera van i shot the lights and tires and the tires got flat and the lights were broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishan316
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  It was sheer luck on GTA 3's part, that it was the first game of its kind to be released. Now this 
 twisted fate renders all cars-guns-in-a-city kind of games to be labelled, unauthentically so - 
 GTA Inspired .
  
  GTA was undoubtedly a revolution, it brought in an entirely different class of games, which gave 
 you freedom to do what YOU desrire, and NOT what the game wants you to do. So then onwards, it 
 was really you who played the game, the game didn't play you. But it is definitely unfair to compare 
 all similar games with it.
  
  But what Saints Row does, is that it puts together everything any GTA or any GTA ispired game has 
 done till date in one package, and serves it to you in a more refined platter.
  
  GTA: San Andreas put aside, coz it was a standard itself, Saints Row is better than all other games 
 in this class.
  
  The graphics are definitely what you'd expect from the 360, the sound effects are great, put together 
 with great music tracks. Kronic and KRhyme, are my favorite stations, being a hip-hop follower, 
 but all the stations have equally fine tracks. AI is good, enemies are intelligent, they jump away 
 from the road if you try to run them over and smoke you within seconds if you are in their line 
 of fire. Stupid pedestrians though may at times, or often, jump in your vehicle's way, but that 
 was probably done to add the humor element.
  
  Surprisingly there are no bikes in the game, simply put, there are fewer means of transport. Now 
 whether it was a marketing strategy in this on THQ's and Volition's part to make way for Saints 
 Row 2 not giving everything in one package and making you wait for more, or whether it was a hurry 
 to release the game, it somehow appears the former to me, but I really don't understand the existence 
 of so few vehicles. It really darkens the experience of such a beautiful game by a lot.
  
  Simply put we'll just have to wait and see how Saints Row 2 delivers, but if you ask me, I'll say 
 something big is up THQ's sleeves... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaLonakuka
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Many of the true GTA Lovers (like me) hate GTA Clones, but this is an exception to the rule. It rocks. 
 Finally someone took the GTA Formula and made it actually better than a GTA game. It has awesome 
 graphics, awesome costumization for both car and character and Ragdoll. Realism is something new 
 here, as you can be thrown out of your car if you crash too hard. The big thing about the game 
 is that it is a third person game with first person shooter games. You can make some side-quest 
 and two things that GTA doesn't make use of: You can rob stores and you can use your cell phone 
 for making calls. You can even call ambulances and taxis with it. The game offers the hold-button-and-rotate-stick 
 menu that totally rocks. This is the first GTA Clone I've ever enjoyed and the best clone so far. 
 With this Next-Gen GTA Clone, we can be hold up until GTAIV comes out for XBOX360 and the PS3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: het_sam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Last I bought Saints Row because I liked the GTA series.
  VC I played a lot and the series before that but still san andreas wassen't much for me.
  Still 
 this game is great to play. I realy had the feeling that you are in a world full of crime and have 
 to do everthing possible to get your money and respect.
  When I got into the game I could just not stop playing. A lot of things are there to do and much 
 morge then in the gta series.
  I liked the fact that you can now store as many cars as possible in your garage and that they do 
 not go away.
  I also liked that the cars that drive around arren't all the same.
  For example that you realy can have exotic cars that you rarely see.
  It gives you the fealing 
 of having power when you drive around.
  Custimizeation is also possible.
  Still I did not realy liked that when you buy jeans and jackeds that there is a limit.
  In GTA 
 SA you could have about 100 differends and here you can hardly have 20 different clothing.
  When you play the missions it is fun to to and the missions are good to play.
  Still when I was 
 playing and had completed a lot of quests it says at my game that I was around 47% of the game.
 
  Then I thought well the new ones must still come. But no you must do al the semi missions to to 
 complete the game. That was the point that I did not like to play saints row no more and stopped.
 
  An other thing I did not like about the game is that you can not join an orther faction.
  I thought maybe you can join up at some japanese clan as well like the Yakuza. but no you can only 
 play ONE faction an no more.
  So thats it, still its a good game to play but I must say if you are a player who wants a lot of 
 missions of the main story then this game is not as good as the GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevan77
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game but I suggest you rent it or play the demo first. You take the roll of just 
 a normal person that gets stired up in a vicious gang fight until the leader of the purple 3rd 
 Strret Saints Julias saves you just after the fight. Since the Saints need all the help they can 
 get they put you to the test and find out that your a born natural and would be great help for 
 them so he recruits you and then for the rest of the game you take on the Los Carnalas, Vice Kings 
 and the pathetic West Side Rollers in shooting, bombing, chasing, and even racing missions and 
 much more. It's a great fun sandbox game and theres always somthing to do in the gang infested 
 city of Stilwater. Every mission has a HUGE ammount of variety and you can always play missions 
 again by just simply going to the theater. It's always fun going on a rampage in it, the best thing 
 to do is to get the Police and the Los Carnalas (since they're the best gang) and make sure your 
 loaded because you'll be up to a big challenge, the Los Carnalas start taking out there rocket 
 launchers and if you deticaded enuff to the game you can get the mighty FBI on your ass and it's 
 gets pretty crazy. Theres also the activitys to do which are like side missions where you can get 
 money and respect. There are all kinds of stores (lots you can rob) where you can buy from Molotov 
 Cocktails to drugs that give the screen a weird effect from blur to smudge. No matter how great 
 the game is I have to but hate to admit that it is a huge copy of GTA, lots of things are similar 
 but I like Saints Row much more since there is no locking on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bullhed
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  I've heard stories about how Saints Row was like Grand Theft Auto, but didn't completely believe 
 it until I saw it for myself. Well, The resemblance is VERY similar. In fact, many times I found 
 myself thinking how Volition got away with ripping off so many features from Grand Theft Auto. 
 From the presentation of cut-scenes to the gangland turf wars.
  
  That said, Saints Row does most everything right, even though it took a lot of cues from GTA. For 
 instance, the driving and shooting is very fun. I love how the main character shoots sidearm. It's 
 a simple touch, buts its just plain fun to run around with the uzi and cap some buster's. Especially 
 cool is the hold-ups, when you point your gun at the shop owners face and than they take you to 
 the back to open the safe for you, and than BLAM! You make sure they can't hit the alarm. Call 
 me sick, but that is cool.
  
  The missions itself are fun, with enough variation that you don't get bored. A couple driving missions 
 here, a couple shooting galleries there. It mixes well and the developers did a nice job delivering 
 action packed missions.
  
  My only complaint about the missions is that most of them are too easy. Your health regenerates 
 so that it's hard to die. If you find yourself in a sticky situation, all you have to do is hightail 
 it out of the hot spot and find cover for a few moments. Than the killing starts again. I guess 
 it's cool like that because there was a couple of times where I would have probably died if it 
 wasn't for the regenerating health, but I guess it just made me feel cheap, like I didn't actually 
 deserve to beat it. But hey, I'm probably just nitpicking.
  
  Overall it is a very fun game. The side missions give you a nice alternative to playing missions, 
 and there's definitely enough of those to keep you occupied playing them. The game isn't terribly 
 buggy, but I've run into a couple spots here and there where weird things happened, like one mission 
 where you hang somebody out a window of a moving car. I was driving along and all of a sudden my 
 car disappeared as did the people accompanying me. I was sitting on thin air. That was definitely 
 a WTF?! moment. But this doesn't happen enough for me to persuade anyone against buying it.
  
  So, in closing, Saints Row is a sweet game, very fun, although practically a carbon copy of 
 GTA. But did it make it any less fun? Heck no. Besides, the gangland part of GTA was the best part, 
 wasn't it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emeraldqueen
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  This game is good for the ones who like to be in gang member the contraire from Crackdown you are 
 the cup. This game is well done in the sense that is made with one intention to rule the road and 
 the city in a gang way. The game has different objectives and is fun to play. The online game was 
 not my ideal game but if you just want to tun around and shoot the enemie that is the fun right 
 there or maybe saving or protecting the Pimp. It's an ok game but is not a game for me I played 
 a couple of times and that was it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Arbiter
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row was an awesome game though I only rented it instead of buy it I still managed to play 
 it and beat it twice..... If I owned it I would play it much more Great Graphics, Detail, Gameplay 
 the ragdoll Physics make it so real
  For example being able to actually go smashing through the windshield of a car when you crash, 
 And when you kill people in the game how they fall and move when their dead or knocked on the ground 
 the way they fall
  And I like how reviving your followers look so funny :) . Saints Row has a great storyline and I 
 like how funny your character is when he finally talks at the end of the game, perhaps next game 
 like saints row that THQ make might make the character talk all through the game hopefully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebornInFlames
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  As far as clones on GTA go, this one is the tops. Saints Row is a great take on the sandbox genre, 
 and the city of Stilwater is one helluva sandbox. The story starts out simply, as you blunder into 
 some gangs fighting and wind up being recruiteed by the underdog gang of the city, the 3rd Street 
 Saints, led by a guy named Julius. From there, you start taking care of business and taking on 
 the other 3 gangs in the city. There are 3 storyline threads, one per gang, and you can take them 
 all at once or one at a time. The only restriction on the story mode is that to advance, you must 
 fill up your respect bar by completing various side-missions, which are actually a lot of fun and 
 range from protecting drug dealers to evading the paparazzi while celebrities get it on with hookers 
 in your backseat. Most of the story missions involve some combination of driving and shooting, 
 and the combat mechanics are rock solid. In a move that improves on GTA, the developers included 
 no targeting system, just a reticule and super responsive weapons. You can also shoot in any direction 
 from a car while driving, which is tricky but makes those chases end a lot faster once you get 
 the hang of it. The driving is also rock solid, with a nice variety to the feel of cars. The game 
 also has superb voice acting, cutscenes you absolutely want to watch, a good storyline, and innuendo 
 everywhere (like their parody of Wendy's, Freckle **** -- their commercials on the radio are hilarious) . 
 The radio stations are generally rap and crappy alternative rock, although the inclusion of a classical 
 music station redeems that somewhat. Graphics are not the greatest, although the art design is 
 superb. Glitches pop up too often such as cars appearing right in front of you, the road disappearig 
 briefly, and there is a lot of pop-in. The game also disappointingly forgets localized cars and 
 people as quickly as GTA did, whcih can be frustrating when hunting for certain cars for the chopshop 
 side mission. There is an online multiplayer mode, and it is decent but has uninspired maps, and 
 is just jard to get into. Saints Row is definitely worth your money, and is a great appetizer while 
 waiting for GTA 4 to come out in October. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eraak
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  Whilst in the eyes of many this may be one of the oft-spawned GTA ripoffs (and don't get me wrong, 
 in most respects is) it also features many things that GTA does not, the minigames for instance, 
 How much fun do you think you could have being run over? Not much I hear you say, well, with this 
 game and it's insurance scam mode yyou can earn cash for getting hit :D
  
  The game suffers from somewhat poor gang AI and a mediocre story but makes up for it in terms of 
 sheer fun that you can have by simply jacking a car and wreaking havok in the city, be it by street 
 racing, becoming an assasin or by performing insurance fraud this game will keep you occupied for 
 quite a while.
  
  The online section of the game varies, it can either be great (Blinged out ride) or populated by 
 Team killers (protect tha pimp) but whatever you decide to play, you generally have a lot of fun 
 doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great game in the style of GTA, its great graphics, gameplay and multiplayer makes 
 it get away from being a GTA Rip-off.
  
  Gameplay:
  Its a third-person shooter with first-person controls, it works right, the only two cons I found 
 was the switching to weapons, I'm just used by switching animals like in all other games, but Saints 
 row changes the design to stand of from GTA, with a difficult circle mechanism.
  
  The second this Saints Row can learn from Rockstars 5-6 year expierence, use a map, in missions 
 in Saints Row you'll use you're map a few times to see where you need to go, instead of the compass 
 GTA used, which made the game more fastpaced, a good feature in Saints Row is when you click one 
 spot on the map, the mapnav screen lets you see the fastest route to take the way.
  
  Graphics:
  Still Waters is basicly Liberty City with a next-gen attitude, the graphics are simply 
 amazing, the pedestrians and main-characters in the game look interesting and their fun to interact 
 with, you can custimize you're own character in the beginning of the game, you're character will 
 be killing lots of people, and will be a by-stander in one of the many cinematics in the game.
 
  
  Some bugs in the game are sometimes dissapearing buildings or vehicles, its not bad if a vehicle 
 dissapears when its far away from you, but it becomes weird after a whole crowded street gets wiped 
 away in the fraction of a second.
  
  The game also has a ragdoll-engine, which I wanted in GTA: SA, so my wish finally comes true after 
 all!
  
  Story:
  You're character is just a normal shmuck in a big city, after you are involved in a huge gang brawl 
 and get shot, the leader of one of the gangs (Julian) steps up and saves you from death, since 
 then you work for him and do missions and stuff.
  
  Most missions you'll do are interesting and vary alot, they also involve alot of driving and taxi 
 missions that they took from GTA.
  
  Sound:
  GTA has been known for its godly soundtrack, and Saint Row offers us a good change of music, its 
 basicly just GTA: SA radio with a few radio's left out, to badly.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The replay value of the game is in the multiplayer, there are you're traditional DM and TDM modes, 
 and Big Ass Chains, which is Search and Retrieve for those who don't play the game, if you kill 
 somebody they drop chains, and you bring the chains back to you're base and earn points for the 
 team.
  
  Multiplayer is addicting and is chaotic, its good fun to ride a car while three other players shoot 
 the other team with assault rifles, it never gets old.
  
  Is it a good free roaming game:
  The game is basicly a great free roaming adventure game, if 
 you have a Xbox360 and like games like GTA, buy the game, or I''ll say it this way: If you just 
 like games in general, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wh1te_m4trix
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  Well, where do i start? This game is addictive, you start off as a normal civilian that happens 
 to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. You get picked up by a gang named 3rd Street Saints 
 and that's where your journey starts. This game has amazing graphics, the explosions are just about 
 perfect for a videogame. In the game there are 3 enemy gangs: The Westside Rollers, Vice Kings 
 and finally The Carnales . Besides the main storyline there are a few activities such as Snatch 
 where you find yourself picking up the pimp's girls. Escort where you take an Exotic Dancer for 
 a ride with her clients while evading the paparazzi. Also there's an activity called Hitman where 
 you do some private killing for certain persons of each gang, you have to kill the certain person 
 with a certain weapon which makes it one of the most challenging activities on the game. There's 
 also Drug Trafficking where you help your all average Drug Junkie stay out of trouble while dealing 
 with the drug transactions. There also Mayhem where you are provided with certain weapons with 
 infinite ammo and you got to cause damage to property in certain locations indicated when you start 
 the activity. There's also the common Racing activity where you have to street race against 3 other 
 rivals. You can also find the Hijacking activity where you have to deal certain damage to an indicated 
 vehicle and then steal it and bring it back to the location indicated in you HUD. There's also 
 the Loan Office activity where you get money loaned and then you got to pay the office back, I 
 don't find that as an activity but if the game says it is then it is an activity. There's also 
 the Insurance Fraud activity where you have to hurt yourself in certain locations of the city to 
 make certain amount of money. And last but not least, the always appreciated Demolition Derby where 
 you find yourself in a stadium wrecking cars for money, now doesn't that sound fun. Well that's 
 about it, since I don't want to spoil the storyline. Anyways thanks for reading, and hope this 
 review helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360_fanatic
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best 360 games out there!! If you ever played GTA (wich im sure you have) and 
 if you liked that, this is a must have game for you!! This will bring you hours and hours of fun!! 
 The online isnt great but it is still worth playing. The campain will take about 10-17 hours maybe?? 
 (it depends on how good you are at games!) There are four gangs (including the one that you are 
 in) but i wont tell you there names because i dont want to give to much away!! There are lots and 
 lots of side missions too, wich will take several hours. You can also by new clothes, custimise 
 your cars! ( you can even put hydralics and nitros in your car!!! HOW COOL IS THAT!!!!!) Well to 
 sum up my review, this is a game that you just have to check out!! I hope my review was helpfull 
 to you!! Thanks for your time!! Goodbye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nobeaner
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 30, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Saints Row offers some nice features to the sandbox game style of GTA by allowing you to create 
 your own character to use in the story rather than assigning you a static protagonist. This was 
 cool as I was able to create a pretty good likeness of myself to go around pimping, killing, stealing 
 and run drugs.
  
  The story revolves around you joining the 3rd street Saints and assisting them in taking over the 
 city of stillwater. There is an interesting backstory revolving around some of the main NPC's that 
 you interact with, but story wise its pretty hokey.
  
  The voice acting was pretty good with talent like Keith David, Michael Clark Duncan, David Carradine, 
 Freddy Rodriguez and Michael Rapaport adding some colorful dialog to the story. Even if it was 
 a bit over the top sometimes.
  
  The graphics in Saints Row looked pretty good at 720P display and the draw distance was pretty 
 far considering the size of the game.
  
  The achievements were kind of interesting but not overly creative.
  
  I enjoyed the main missions 
 in Saints Row and even some of the submissions. Others, like insurance fraud, I was not that impressed 
 with.
  
  I would recommend this game for anyone that dreams of shooting civilians, cops and gang members. 
 Or enjoys stealing, running drugs, pimping or just getting over on the man. If your looking for 
 a great story, well its a bit light but does leave some room for intrigue at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AJ51
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 28, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Straight up i advise that if you are a fan of the GTA series and its style of gameplay... GO BUY 
 THIS GAME RIGHT NOW!!
  
  ok....
  
  now that i have that out of my system we can continue with this review :)
  Saints row provides 
 a fresh spit on the legendary series of GTA. The game draws many connections to the series and 
 could be first competitor for Rockstar tocompete against.
  
  However with that said we all no GTA will always be at the top of the barrel. But its always good 
 to know that there is another game to fall back on when a new GTA is being produced. (i. e. such 
 as the present)
  The ability to create your own character appearance is a nice innovative concept that makes Saint 
 Row stand out. This allows gamers to feel a personal connection with their character and in most 
 cases allows them to remodel a replica of themselves/alter ego :P
  
  Graphics are fantastic! The one thing that I admire with this game is that they havent tried to 
 catch the GTA style of presentation as a whole. You will notice that Saints Row is a lot more cartoonish 
 and colourful than it is gritty such as in San Andreas.
  
  Gameplay is well formed. To be honest I found the controls for directing your grenades and Molotovs 
 to be much more fluid and accurate than in GTA. Driving cars is smooth and the melee and fist fights 
 are always fun and goofy. The Missions are pretty fun and theres plenty of side activities to 
 go through that are fairly hard to complete. Such activities as Hitman contracts all the way through 
 to Insurance Scams. Basically you get a chance to make money however may possible!
  
  The voice acting is entertaining and believable. It suits the whole mood. The music isnt quite 
 Rockstar material but its good enough to keep you pumpin. Another feature that I found impressive 
 is that when you walk past certain done up cars, you can feel the subwoofer pumpin the music 
 their listening to and once you jack the car theres a smooth transition to the particular song 
 that is being played.
  
  There are many glitches that come across every so often such as when your travelling between suburbs 
 youll notice the game pause while your driving and the vehicle your in will completely disappear 
 leaving you hovering above the ground. However this is a minor glitch that takes 10 seconds to 
 load so you wont find it that annoying. Multiplayer is probably the best thing about Saints Row!! 
 Its the feature that keeps you coming back for more. As GTA fans weve all desired the chance 
 to play online with our consoles but they never delivered it however Saints Row offers a fairly 
 creative and fun multiplayer. You have to begin from the bottom and earn cash to buy your gear 
 by playing ranked matches against other gamers. Various online game modes such as Protect the Pimp, 
 Team Gangster brawl and gangster brawl are a popular set of modes. Blinged out ride can be fun 
 as well but takes a while to complete. Finally Big Ass chains is another form of multiplayer. Overall 
 the multiplayer works well and there are some glitches here and there but overall it handles well!!
 
  
  Many people have whinged about this game and its glitches but everyone forgets that this game was 
 released fairly early into the release of the Xbox 360 and Im sure GTA IV is going to completely 
 obliterate Saints Row but that is because theyve had more time on the game. Saints Row is definitely 
 worth the buy as it has great replay value within the single player mode as well as Multiplayer. 
 It is a title that Microsoft should be proud to have within the 360 range that is strictly for 
 360!!
  Until IV is released, Saints Row will serve as a Temporary Fix until IV is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leed123
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun because you start as a normal guy just walking through the streets and 
 then there is a gang war.
  The gang war is between The 3rd street saints, Westside Rollerz and The Los Carnales.
  The good 
 point about this game is it is just like Grand Theft Auto where you steal cars, take drugs, use 
 guns and many more thing what are illegal.
  The bad point about this game is they should of had at least a 2 player co-op in the game. (not 
 online tho)
  This game has many online games on it like: Protect The Pimp Team Death Match Normal Death Match 
 And More.....
  This game you can customize what you look like by going to shops to spend your money on clothes 
 this game is really  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gummy3500
Rating: 7
Date: May 27, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  i wish that the game was a lot longer because it is so much fun and then suddenly ends. For people 
 that are into GTA this is quite a quick game compared to it. And when the missions are over you 
 get a little bored trying to find something else to do. It is a good game to quench ur thirst for 
 a GTA type game on 360 cause it cuts awful close. when i want to play GTA and not pklay San Andreas 
 cause im tired of it ill play this because it has god graphics and its fun all around. I think 
 that when GTA 4 comes out people will forget abt this game.... sorry but its true. Don't get me 
 wrong this game is a lot of fun but like i said its too short and doesn't have a replay value. 
 And it just can't replace GTA cause that game is Amazing in its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuRe_CaNaDiaN_
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 26, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Volition Inc. wanted to create a fun game and it seems they weren't shooting for a realistic or 
 authentic feel and did not expect their game to be taken too seriously. The not too serious nature 
 of the game can be spotted all over in the dialogue, the art, the missions and many other places.
 
  
  Once you're dropped in Stilwater, your city for conquering, you'll get to run around right away, 
 nothing is blocked off. It didn't take much roaming to realize that the given control schemes aren't 
 all that spectacular. Even after playing for many hours the controls still seem to require too 
 many buttons and setting up camera angles, especially while driving can be a pain. On a good note, 
 the buttons and analog stick are fairly responsive and as long as you don't mess up your button 
 juggling, the action you requested performs properly. For the most part, the controls work and 
 it is not too often you fail due to controller frustrations. There is one story arc with three 
 sub-arcs that relate to each of the rival gangs. All of the stories are well done and don't leave 
 too much hanging at the end. Although, you may want to play through again to find many subtle hints 
 that help fill in the story and sub-plots. As a testament to the quality of the stories, my drive 
 to play through the last two sub-arcs was simply the story itself and not to be a completionist. 
 The missions involved in each arc are fun, varied and fairly relevant to the story. The reputation 
 system that has you doing activities (see next paragraph) in order to do more story missions, paces 
 the speed of the game nicely.
  
  Dotted throughout the city are many side quests, called activities. With a few exceptions, they 
 blend seamlessly into the game. They start with a humorous intro and then the task begins. Some 
 of them are short term activities, like drug dealing, while others are long term tasks that you 
 complete throughout your play time, like Hitman or Chop Shop activities. While you will have to 
 do some to help advance the story thanks to the reputation system, at least they are all fun. Well, 
 except the insurance fraud one, which seemed like a cheap gimmick to demonstrate the physics engine. 
 The activities are fun and offer a good balance of challenging and easy missions.
  
  Right from the intro clip, you'll notice the artists made good use of colour and don't abuse any 
 graphic effects (*cough*bloom*cough*) . The models for vehicles, characters and buildings are all 
 stylish but nothing truly spectacular graphics wise. The customization for vehicles and your character 
 are pretty amazing, but with the amount of options for your character, it would be nice if your 
 homies could vary a bit more. The real beauty of the engine is how much stuff can be on screen 
 and how far you can see without so much as a hitch on the frame-rate. Throughout the game you will 
 constantly see beautiful panoramic views of the city and giant piles of exploding cars and people 
 that will bring a tear to your eye. There are an adequate amount of character animations, and they're 
 all fairly smooth. The graphics may not be breakthrough, but they serve their purpose more than 
 adequately.
  
  The dialogue in this game cannot be taken seriously. Once you get over that, this game has some 
 of the most entertaining voicing of any game. All the voice acting is well done, from the quips 
 on the street to the conversations in the cut scenes.
  
  While the dialogue was stellar, the music and sound effects only felt sub par. The music is all 
 original, but none of the songs really stuck out, and a few of them just sounded obnoxious. Granted, 
 I didn't bother collecting too many of the hidden CDs for the un-lockable tracks. Gunshots, car 
 collisions, engine noises and explosions never sounded truly satisfying. They just didn't portray 
 the feeling of impact. Other than hearing bare rims on the road, the sound was just a cosmetic 
 layer and didn't add much to game play.
  
  Between the main stories, activities, exploring, stylizing yourself and simple rampaging Saints 
 Row offers a lot of content for the single player experience. If you get bored of doing one type 
 of thing you can easily find something else to entertain you for a couple of hours.
  
  As for multi player, the game types are well done and a couple of them are pretty original. For 
 accomplishing certain things you are awarded cash and can upgrade your on-line player's looks. 
 Everything plays out at a decent pace, but getting into a game can take almost as long as the match 
 itself. A slightly greater variety in maps would have been nice too. The use of physics and ability 
 to drive cars in multiplayer is pretty awesome, but lag and warping after collisions is a pretty 
 common problem. The multiplayer system is layed out well overall, but a bit of polish on the technical 
 side could have been done.
  
  My first online experience was amazing. People (despite sounding like wannabe thugs) were effectively 
 communicating, working as a team and overall having a good time. I have yet to duplicate that experience. 
 For every team oriented player you find, you will find two teamkillers and a guy that just wants 
 to drive the 'purdry carz'. The terrible community for Saints Row undermines the fun and original 
 multiplayer modes. For the single player alone, Saints Row is worth picking up for any mature Xbox 
 owner. Throw in the multiplayer and you have a purchase you won't regret, even if you aren't the 
 most hardcore thug or rap lover (which I'm not much of either) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadash29
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 26, 2007 4:41 pm PT
Review:  IF you like GTA youll love S. R. some people call it a ripoff of GTA i call it a much needed slap 
 in the faces of the Rockstar CO. SO buy it, its just $30 now and its worth hours of fun. I am about 
 50% through and theres no way to take my hands off. BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY BUY YOU'LL ENJOY IT!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 AND DON'T COMPLAIN IF YOU DONT LIKE IT... CUZ LIKE I SAID ITS $30 SO ITS WORTH IT. So run to your 
 neighborhood game store and grab Saints cuz its frikkn awsome. ok get it got it good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyke
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Welcome, gals and guys! This review comes from a 3D GTA player and it's not intended to introduce 
 the basic concept of sandbox gameplay to the reader, so if you don't know what GTA is or how it's 
 played, I recommend reading reviews of those games instead before moving on below. Also, I haven't 
 played the multiplayer modes in the game, so you won't find any thoughts on those here.
  
  Saints Row offers the first entertaining, content-packed GTA-like experience on the new generation 
 of consoles with a plethora of activities, missions and districts to explore.
  
  The controls in Saints Row are a little different than GTA's, but the functionality is still the 
 same. It also shares the same mission and gameplay structure with the more popular sandbox game, 
 but it stands out thanks to a number of unique activities, such as: Insurance Fraud, where you 
 have to throw yourself on the way of speeding cars to get hit in the worst way possible; Drug Trafficking, 
 where you ride shotgun and protect the driver as they make deliveries; and Hijacking, where you 
 steal a specific car and return it to the starting location before gangs and cops kill you or destroy 
 your vehicle. There are many other activities like these, along with the main story missions.
 
  
  Almost every activity has 8 levels of difficulty, and there are multiple instances of each. This 
 adds a lot of content, but makes it difficulty to score an Achievement since you have to complete 
 every level or every instance of an activity before you get your meager 10G for your multi-hour 
 work. Certainly, 10G is hardly fair when you've completed some of the frustratingly difficult and 
 time-consuming levels of an activity. Saints Row really puts into question the 360 Achievements 
 system, as this type of game offers so much more content and goal-oriented missions than others 
 that it deserves a bigger cap over the mere 1000Gs.
  
  On the gameplay side, however, Saints Row plays just as good as you'd expect. Driving is just as 
 simple as it was in GTA, and the easy access to weapons means you can actually use them without 
 worrying about running out of ammo too quickly. You can even die or get busted by the cops and 
 still retain your weapons with their ammo (while paying an expected fee, though, just like GTA) . 
 As a result, you'll hardly find the need to use melee attacks, even if Saints Row allows you to 
 use 3 buttons for such a task. A lot of time, effort and patience will be spent in getting rewarded 
 on the Gamerscore. There are a few bugs in the game, and the more you play the more you'll notice 
 them. The game has frozen on me at least five times, and there is an irritable problem that happens 
 more often than it should and can actually affect your enjoyment of the game. Sometimes, the car 
 you'll be driving won't render/show on the screen. When it doesn't render, you don't move. You 
 are frozen, sitting in an invisible car. When you're in a race and your car doesn't render, you 
 don't move while the other cars still race ahead. There will also be times when a bridge you're 
 driving on won't be rendered, and it'll stay that way for a little too long causing you to lose 
 your bearings. This last one doesn't necessarily affect gameplay but easily annoys: Cars that are 
 around you, even close ones that you can plainly see in front of you... simply disappear. The one 
 you're driving or last drove will stay in the game as long as you don't get in another car, so 
 that's a little relief. Still, cars disappearing in plain view are a problem GTA did not have in 
 the last generation of consoles, so it's a little silly to see these issues here.
  
  While Saints Row introduces a couple of frustrating issues, it does a lot of good to amend problems 
 that have been part of GTA for the longest time. For one, your garage can store up to 160 cars, 
 which is way more than the total number of unique car models available, and you can access any 
 garage to get to your one inventory. If your car is destroyed, you can come back to your garage 
 and pay up $500.00 to have it fixed! But the biggest breath of fresh air comes in the form of waypoints. 
 Now, you can choose anywhere in the world where you'd like a waypoint to show up from where you 
 are to that point in the map. Also, every mission, including races, use waypoints to direct you 
 in the right direction of where you need to go. It's such a We love you gamers feature, that I 
 can't see myself without it in GTA.
  
  Speaking of missions, they are varied and interesting enough to play, even if the story is clich&eacute; d 
 and at times boring. You'll be taking on 3 other gangs, each with their own missions. When you 
 beat a mission, your gang will get the territory the mission was played in, and you'll have to 
 defend it later when the opposing gang tries to take it back.
  
  The presentation of the game is great, although the visuals are too plastic-looking in contrast 
 with the gritty-looking GTA. However, the voice cast is impressive with a great number of talented 
 actors lending their voices to the characters. The music, which comes in the form of a CD player 
 or car radio, is just as good as GTA's and even has its own humorous conservative talk radio station.
 
  
  All in all, Saints Row is the best fix for anyone looking for a sandbox, violent game in the same 
 vain as GTA. It doesn't feel original at all, but that's not its intent. Instead, it builds on 
 the original GTA gameplay and offers some interesting improvements to the series. It may lack the 
 polish, character development and a few touches here and there that made San Andreas such an amazing 
 game, but Saints Row more than stands on its own. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 82ndRmilkman
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 24, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  some games have tried and failed some have even tried again to recreate the action of a the PS2 
 GTA Games .
  
  on its one a donly try saints row was a success.
  
  Hardcore GTA fans see it as just a rip off of GTA .
  
  myself being a GTA fan myself see it 
 as a very innovative game taking the carjacking pedestrian killing gang violences you see in GTA 
 enhancing the graphics and adding funny physics
  
  the character customization is good making you feel closer to your character then playing the set 
 characters in the GTAs
  
  the driving is ridiculously if you use the hand brake you can make a 90 degree turn no prob
  
 
  there are some glitches in the game but not many
  
  the missions ranges from relatively easy to annoying to relatively hard but all seem to be able 
 to be beat unlike some mission in gt where u fight off the army by yourself (wtf)
  
  the guns are good most you've seen in GTA ( an ak, an m4, sniper, shotgun, grenades, Molotovs, 
 various pistols and sub machine guns, plus your favorite the rocket launcher)
  
  the story isn't as in depth as in GTA games but its unique in its own way
  
  side missions 
 to earn respect to be able to play missions is rather tedious, but there are various activities 
 like drug trafficking, car jacking, racing, hitman, chop shop and prostitute stealing to break 
 the monotony a little bit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tedinator
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game in a short sense would be a grotesque rip-off of Grand Theft Auto. But, I don't really 
 care because it's good. Simply put if you've ever played GTA then get ready for the same over the 
 top antics that GTA always offered with a next gen twist. The power of the '360 makes this game 
 look phenomenal, not Gears of War quality of course, but with the amount of freedom that Saints 
 Row offers that's very understandable. The characters that Saint's Row uses are a perfect balance 
 of each other. For example, Johnny is a gun toting psychopath who smashes everything in his way, 
 while Dexter (another saints lieutenant) is a thinker and would prefer anything to violence. The 
 opposing gangs are fairly believable as well. Even though they seem a little more big-time than 
 I'd expect a street gang to be (particularly the Vice Kings) . The gunplay has been severely improved. 
 Rather than the typical auto aim that GTA used Saints Row uses a system that moves like butter 
 across a wet pan to allow you comfortable aiming and target selection (even in vehicles) so no 
 more only shooting in certain directions during chases. The customization and character creation 
 that Saints Row offers is also a major boon to the overall experience of the game. You can not 
 only create your own characters similar to the way you do in Oblivion. Then, you can do the same 
 thing to your cars and even your wardrobe. Not to mention the introduction of multiplayer. Something 
 never before seen in any free roaming crime style game. However, Saint's Row does fall short of 
 GTA by the selection of vehicles. Basically, Saints Row has many, many cars, but that's it. Overall 
 except for vehicle selection, Saints Row can easily be compared to GTA in almost every category. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Desert_Sweeper
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Saints row just seems like one of those games, that just copys everything from another game, such 
 as Grand Theft Auto. Although It's called a GTA RIP-OFF , it's a well done Rip off. Saints row 
 has a Well put together story that last hours, and also Activities which are side missions that 
 you do to earn respect to continue through the games plot. Which really expands the amount of time 
 you will be playing Saints row. Along with that, if you start playing the story and the Activities, 
 you WILL get addicted to the game (Theres also a addicted to SR Achievement)
  
  One nice feature that GTA never had, was the ability to make your own character depending on your 
 style, Later while progressing through the game, you will earn money to start wearing your gang 
 colors (purple) with the ability to buy from several brands of clothing, and also jewery and tattoos 
 ,But you can chose what ever you want to wear, however if you represent you gang, you will get 
 a Clothing Bonus 
  
  But overall, This Saints row is great for people that want to play a great offline game , or gamers 
 that just dont want to bother with the single player, and just want to blast through the online 
 experiance. Also dont forget the game is only 30 bucks now!!! So whats the risk? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pimpdaddy1450
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a must buy for the Xbox 360. It has a great storyline and you can do so much else like 
 rob places, customize cars you steal, buy guns, jewelry, clothes, drugs and alcohol. I really liked 
 fighting the cops and FBI. At the start you can customize your character with almost unlimited 
 options; something you could not do in the GTA games. Easy to learn controls that you will get 
 used to right away. The only problem with the gameplay is all the glitches and bugs the game has 
 such as being stuck in a invisible car with no road under you. Rarely the game will freeze up on 
 you and the sound can blank out for a second which really isnt a big deal compared to the others. 
 There are some more minor bugs but mostly the game runs well despite these and usually all the 
 bugs and glitches are barely noticeable and dont interrupt the gameplay. The online is great . 
 You can get addicted to the game easily because of how fun it is to free roam and do whatever you 
 want with your gang or by yourself. Its basicly your call just like in GTA. Overall this game is 
 one of the best games I've ever played for any system and im still playing it right now because 
 it has great replay value. For some reason when i get a new game after I beat my new game and get 
 bored of it I always come back to this game. I highly recommend this game to everyone especially 
 to the GTA fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11cairborne
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  this game was so amazing i love the story line the graphics are beatiful the weapons are so cool 
 the cars rock everything in this game rocks especially the online playing the online playing is 
 amazing the types of playing games are so fun the team deathmatch the pimp my ride rocks but the 
 chain one is boring . so this game is so cool when i got it i couldnt beleive it u can rob stores 
 and also burglarize them too. so this is my review of saints row so if u think of buying it dont 
 even hesitate . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VGLeo34
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 15, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  No, no, god no!! Awful just awful, EVERYTHING is a copy of GTA, Everything!!!!!!! My TV locked 
 alot while i played it. There are mre glitches than there are hoes!!!!
  
  Graphics: Look exactly like GTA4
  Sound: It could be worse, the gun noises are pretty fake though.
 
  Guns: No gun is good, it's either got a lot of ammo and little power, or all power and little 
 ammo.
  Gameplay: The controls are WWWWWAAAAAAYYYYYYYY TOO CONFUSING!!
  Story: Simple, be a gangster, say the F**K alot, and have people jump in front of your vehicle.
 
  
  Should I buy It?: Maybe, it's addicting, but it gets boring, like GTA, the missions are repetitive 
 and there are too many glitches. Rent itt than buyyy it butholes.
  
  Worth $30?: It's $19 used, so yeah, I guess, maybe, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm8000
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 14, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  The game is fantastic they don't hold off on the language that makes it so real, also the driving 
 is so cool I can drift more.
  I have to say though I dist this game before playing it I was so wrong. So from now on before I 
 dis any game I will try it out first.
  
  Next time they should add-on car customization that would cool and maybe talking to computer caractors 
 on the streets, say for example a couple is walking down the street and you come up and say something 
 like Hey Sexy to his girl he gets pissed off and starts a fight with ya but a real life fight and 
 if you win you take his chick and his cash so you can start being a pimp now i'm maybe gowing overboard.
 
  
  Anyway I love how you edit your guy in the game give them a face lift that's cool, So the gameplay 
 is realy cool and I can't wait for Saint's Row 2 and GTA 4 finaly coming to XBOX 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danbouk
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 14, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a free-roaming game in a style not unlike GTA.
  
  Basically you join a fictional gang in the city of stilwater, trying to take over the city.
  
 
  The game has some good shooting physics as well as most of the cars handle well.
  
  You have a lot of side missions which are fun at first, but do become repeitive after a while, 
 also most of the story mission and strong holds nearly all play the same.
  
  Graphics are ok but nothing special and the backdrops do not really come across as next gen. Sound 
 is ok but comes with an annoying soundtrack you'll most likely switch off.
  
  Also the game has a lot of glitches some may reqiure you to change your disc if you can, just so 
 you can continue the game.
  
  It has an on-line mode which ranked matches take a long time to set up and begin and when they 
 do more than half the time you'll have to put up with lag.
  
  The game does somethings better than the game it is trying to imatate but at the end its fails 
 due to not having a better written story, lack of varity in missions and a host of annoying glitches, 
 plus an on-line mode that is not worth talking about.
  
  Only buy it, if you see it cheap, otherwise wait for GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arab-man666
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 11, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This game takes 1 step forward, and 2 steps back. Take Grand theft auto, strip it of it's soul, 
 give it a storyline that looks like it game out of some early 90's VHS release, and you have Saints 
 Row. Copying GTA isn't a bad thing, but not copying it well enough is. The only Vehicles in this 
 game are 4 wheel (or semi) cars. No bikes, no fancy motorcycles and no flying gameplay. Being taped 
 to the ground takes away some of that freedom that we have become so accustumed to getting from 
 the GTA franchise.
  
  The create and Urban terrorist feature is neat, and gives you plenty of options, but the chacter 
 model stance and movments may not necessarily fit with who you made. The character always moves 
 like he's a teen gangbanger. There are some cool clothing options, which gives this game another 
 plus. The games visuals look next-gen, but also look insanely fake.
  
  This game has great phisics, but for the chacter models in the game, the ragdoll feels too floaty. 
 It's as if they are made of pillows. No real weight.
  
  Overall, this game comes off like a generic GTA. It's good, and it's fun, but it leaves you wanting 
 whats missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tacohashi
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  amazing, sure lots of people call it a gta clone, and well, it is. But who cares? why should gta 
 own the whole freeroaming game world? saints row completely beats gta in every aspect, graphics 
 are fantastic, anyone who has played gta knows that theyre graphics have always sucked, and only 
 now, for gta 4 are they redesigning them. as for gameplay, its waaaay more fun, punching and kicking 
 has never been so fun (except for godhand, but that has nothing to do with this) because the graphics 
 and physics are so good, the first time you kick out an old womans shins and her walker falls on 
 her, you will be in love with this game. unlike gta the characters actually seem like real people, 
 in gta they walked, responded if you attacked them and very rarely fought each other, but saints 
 row is great, people will go get a newspaper from those machines and read it at a bustop or walk 
 with it, cops eat donuts occacionally lol, people talk to each other, and the dialoge is hillarious 
 (such as when you punch a black guy and he goes AHH N*GGAS GONE CRAZY )
  
  ok sure gta has bikes motorcycles and planes, but the cars and car customizing in saints row is 
 waay better. I could go on about why saints row wupps gtas A*S but I wont, so ill just break it 
 down.
  
  you can hold up any place you want
  
  there is no auto target which makes it more fun than holding L1 and repeatedly shooting.
  
 
  the special homies are awsome, and you can call em up with your cell, and they all are unique 
 helpfull and funny as hell
  
  it has an mp3 player!!! now go buy music and listen to a wide variety of music whenever you want!
 
  
  you can create your own character and make him as pimped out or as fugly as you want.
  
  the cheats are way more origional and fun/funny
  
  the characters are unforgettable, as 
 you play through the game you will love the characters, esspecialy the saints
  
  No one buckles up theyre seatbelt!! yay! hit someone hard enough and you or them/or both will fly 
 right out the windsheild yay!
  
  lots of kick a*s activities to do when your bored of the story, such as insurance fraud, or stealing 
 hoes from pimps
  
  the online is fun as f*ck and has downloadable content!
  
  gangs are not dumba*s g*y peices of crap anymore!, remember how in gta you would pimp out a new 
 car and on your way to your home, no more than a 30 second drive, you would get shot up and have 
 your car nowhere near perfect condition, well in saints row, the police work like gangs, piss them 
 off and theyle beat you up, pull out a gun, they pull out a gun etc. So now you have some security 
 if you just wanna screw around in the city without any lame interuptions.
  
  the inventory is well organized and you can choose any weapon almost instantly, in addition to 
 that, theyre also are different types of food to eat and restore health, and in a different category 
 than weapons, so you wont accidently eat when you mean to bust out your shotty
  
  ok now for the 2 bad things, now bad only means not as good as it could be, ok the first problem 
 is not as big a place as you would hope, its more the size of about 2 gta islands or so, but deal 
 with it this game is great!
  
  the second problem is that somewhat of a lack of weapons, but come on! gta has tons of machine 
 guns and ak's etc, can you really tell the difference? so this is a problem and a good thing at 
 the same time, 4 pistols, all with different speed and power, 2 uzis one stronger than the other 
 2 rifles 1 sniper, 3 shotguns, 2 are similar but the other is a riot shotgun, 1 rpg, 3 thrown weapons, 
 pipe bombs moltov coctails and grenades, all very different types of explosisions so great variety.
 
  
  so that last one wasnt really a negative for me, but for some they might think so
  
  I found it funny how many people complained abiout the story HAHA as if gta actually has a good 
 story (its there but its no halo) and the same goes for saints row, so basically SSDD.
  
  i decided to buy this after i played the demo, the demo is about 1/50 the size with very limited 
 to do, and i played it for hours, so obviously the real game blew me away.
  
  no co-op like gta san andreas, but pft the gta one sucked so much theyre was no point anyway,.
 
  
  lets see what else... Oh the clothes, the clothes tattoos, the whole customizing idea is fantastic.
 
  
  10/10 no question, the best.... ok maybe second best 360 game (dead rising is about on par with 
 it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poseidion
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 10, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  The is a copy (a great copy) of GTA, but even knowing is a copy I have to say it's really fun. 
 And of course it has it's own new things like free aim inside and outside the car while you drive 
 at the same time (this is not that easy to dominate) . The story is good and the end is fu*king 
 incredible. The weapons are great, the sounds and the results. But the most impressive moments 
 are the car explosions, the sound and the effects are just hard to describe. And the end is completely 
 unespected and new for this type of game. You really have to play it and my advise is to make the 
 side missions first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyzar_x
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 10, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  cant wait 4 gta 4 well heres a quick fix for all u hoe beating cop killing s. o. b
  da story is u r a young blood in da 3rd street saints, but their r 3 other gangs in your way 2 dominate 
 da row u will do gta style missions 2 take da row back.
  one of da best parts of the story is the inivative side missions. but da game fails online, online 
 is your shooting online game but sucks more then any live game out.
  it gets boring so give it at least a rent.........................
  thats wat saints row gets 
 a 7.6 out of 10 kill on kill on............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockdudeguy
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 9, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row.
  What can I say?
  It's a pretty enjoyable game: nice graphics, fun gameplay.. etc, etc...
  
  Pros:
  Like I 
 said, good graphics. The missions are fun. They're not completely stupid. Pretty dang good physics... 
 more realistic than GTA. I'm pretty sure the physics aren't ragdoll. I think they're Havoc/havik 
 w/e... amazing :] ]
  
  Cons:
  The aiming reticule is slightly bleh but not the worst you've ever seen. The characters are a little.. 
 let's just say you're thinking Umm, ooookaaay.... 
  Again, not the worst, but not the best. Not much to say.. The game isn't really gorey, but that's 
 not necessarily a downfall for a game of this sort... I say rent this game, and if you like it, 
 BUY IT! It's pretty good... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 7, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Ive loved sandbox games since Vice City. There's always something to do, and you play the game 
 at your pace. Saints Row is a perfect example of this and it adds a few twists and turns to the 
 sandbox genre.
  
  Gameplay- Saints row has some pretty good gameplay. There are tons of activites to do around Stilwater. 
 You can start gang wars, become a pimp, be a hitman, perform insurance fraud, and a host of other 
 activites. The shooting is like that of any other third person shooter, and a lot better than the 
 gta serie's gunplay. The ability to drive and shoot, as well as the decent hand to hand elements 
 are good also.
  
  Graphics/sound- The graphics are decent, but not great, but much better than the GTA games, at 
 least until GTA IV. The sound is good, with a pretty good set of celebrities doing voiceovers. 
 The soundtrack is decent, but you can always use your custom soundtracks.
  
  Fun/ Value- You can easily play Saints Row for 35-40 hours on your first play through. There are 
 so many things to do. I found this game to be very fun.
  
  All in all Saints Row is an excellent title to whet your appetite for a free roamer until GTA IV 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaznobread
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played this one yet, and you are a fan of the GTA franchise you will want to at 
 least pick it up. It's under $40 now and will probably get forgotten once GTA4 comes out. If you 
 have to get your run around a city GTA like experience with 360 type graphics on right now, this 
 game is for you. There's not much new here but it's still all fun stuff. Some missions are harder 
 than others so it's a little inconsistent. Story is mildly interesting and theres plenty of side 
 missions to keep you busy.. Little tweaks like a GPS like feature make navigating easier.. Odd 
 ways of making money like insurance fraud keep humor and easy money coming. It's small innovations 
 like that that we will remember once GTA 4 comes out and we wish we had them if GTA 4 doesn't deliver.. 
 Pick it up on the cheap and trade it in once you are done with it to get GTA4.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Antonius86
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 6, 2007 5:07 am PT
Review:  This game is so awesome, the graphics are amazing, the explosions of cars and tanks blows me away, 
 and Missions are fun to play. The graphics is truly nex-gen, awesome character customization, customizing 
 a person in great depth with four different race. Huge selection of clothings to chose from in 
 the game and along with that there is a update with 60+ new clothes from Xbox Live Marketplace. 
 The good thing about this character customization is that whenever you feel like changing the look, 
 you can a find a store in the game to allow you to rechange the look of ur character. The one thing 
 that impresses me the most is the explosions of cars and tanks. When I first downloaded the demo, 
 I played for hours destroying any cars i see with a grenade. But if there are too much explosion 
 on screen, the game does slow down a bit but other than that its great. The online multiplayer 
 is where i don't like. I play the game online so I can get the achievements I need. There's a lot 
 of lags online and I don't like how you win money when you win or lose. To achieve the Clipper 
 Coupons achievement, you have to play the game online for a very long time because when you lose 
 u get $15.00 and when you win you get $45.00. Not a whole lot. So buying clothes online are using 
 $1,000 or more. Totally Retarded! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheetirplaaer
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 4, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  Although the game was good and all; but it could use more weapons and vehicles. Also the game map 
 could be bigger. Even the story line was good and all but it could be longer and the ending should 
 be enjoyable, not the main character blowing up. But the good thing is the idea that the activities 
 were kind of interesting. Another bad thing is the on-line play, why, because people could easily 
 standby (cheat) . Another bad thing is, the online marketplace, usually people get the donwloaded 
 stuff for free (for example: Gears of War) , but for Saint's Row you need to pay a hefty to get 
 what you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbob_80
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Abseloutel emense kicks everbodies ass by a country mile HHHHHHHEEEEEEELLLLLLL 
 
  But it is quite hard which is a good thing you need a quite hard game so you can spend more time 
 on  
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great great 
 great great great great great great great grea tgrea tgrea tgrea tgrea tgrea tgrea tgrea tgrea 
 tgrea tgrea tgrea tgrea tgrea tgrea tgrea tgreat greatg reatgr eatgre at great greatgreat great 
 greatgreat great great great great great great great great great great great great great great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanepyro6
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The story is great. I loved it. Kinda a dissapointing ending tho (IM NOT GIVING SPOILERS) . Graphics: NICE. 
 (The car explosions are SO REAL!!!)
  
  Sound: As with every 360 game, the music isn't too repetitive and the SFX are amazing.
  
  $40 
 well spent I think they could have made the game 10x better. Looking a bit more for the GTA4 for 
 the 360. The multiplayer was a total letdown = (
  
  MY PROBLEMS WITH MULTIPLAYER-_-=-
  
  1. Annoying load times.
  
  2. Not really that fun...
  
  3. We hardly get any weapons
 
  
  4. VERY small lvls
  
  EVERYTHING else about the game is solid though. If you depend on a good multiplayer, don't get 
 it. Otherwise this is a $40 well spent =)
  
  The only reason the Gameplay attribute is a 6/10 is because the multiplayer plain sucks. End of 
 story = (
  
  Still a worthwhile game for the 360. Go blow up some @#$% everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj729
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The Plot: The plot is simple. One day you are strolling along in area of Stilwater, known simply 
 as Saints Row. When opposing gangs engage in an fatal firefight you are caught in the cross hairs. 
 Just when you are to meet your maker the leader of the Saints street gang, Julius, comes to your 
 rescue along with his right-hand man Troy. You are then recruited to the Saints where it is up 
 to you to kill the opposing gangs throughout Stilwater. Your character is very quiet yet at times 
 oddly peculiar.
  
  The Good: This game is more than a quality GTA rip-off, it is has many feature that make even C. J. 
 jealous. The weapon and vehicle catalog is tremendous along with the colorful commentary by both 
 the citizens, gang bangers and disc jockeys throughout the city. The homies system is very entertaining 
 and makes it easy to go on robbing sprees, yes you can rob ant store in the city either with a 
 hold-up or a midnight heist of the safe. Either is just as entertaining as the several repeatable 
 side-missions all throughout the game. There is never a dull moment through out the game and you 
 can do whatever you want hence the term sandbox. There is an incredible voice cast that help 
 bring this Free-roam out of the masses of obscure San Andreas wannabes.
  
  The Bad: The worst part about this game is it is not San Andreas! It doesnt have nearly as much 
 space within it as you would like. The dialogue and story is doesnt feel original. The ending 
 is unexpected but not important to anybody. But these flaws are hardly worth noting.
  
  My Opinion: This is a must have for the fan of the genre. It features several things that will 
 make you never look at a Free-roam action adventure game the same ever again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt_brown
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  the game has good grafics and is verry adickting and i just love how you can do a lot of inposibile 
 stuff and how you can just kill and kill and  . the cops 
 and gang bangers just keep coming and that means that you get to kill a lot of people. the wepon 
 varierty is also good so that you have cheep and the you have expensive but deadly wepons. the 
 people in the game are way funny and the different cloths and types of people and how change able 
 your chariter is and the differinet things about your chariters body like his face and gis nose 
 and his size and every thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehroze_96
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 27, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  Saints row sucks yes indeed. That is what i heard from my friends until they and I saw and played 
 the game. The graphics are superb and the gameplay is OK. We can start hold ups by pointing the 
 gun at the shop keeper and tell him to give us the money. We can own neibourhoods and get the money 
 from our stash at our apartment. We can keep hostages in the car and threten them to give us money. 
 We can do such activities which can fill up our respect meter and give us $ALOT$ of money. We can 
 store stolen cars in our garage. We can join various gangs and do missions for them. We can buy 
 guns , clothes ETC. from shops. We can buy alot of SWEET guns from the shop such as RPG ETC. We 
 can also purchase songs in the game. We also create our own player in the start of the game. Yes 
 these are all the things that are in Saints row ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSXBOX363
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a free roam game inspired by the GTA series. Saints Row is most definitely better 
 than any GTA game so far, but like GTA it doesn't have re-playable value. So how is Saints Row 
 better than GTA? Well for starters, the graphics are much better than any GTA games. The graphics 
 are crisp and realistic, unlike the blocky graphics of previous GTA games. There also seem to be 
 more features, such as character characterization, customizable cars, and much more. Saints Row 
 offers something that GTA games lacked, a very intriguing plot. Another thing with the game is 
 the variety of missions. Even though the game is short, the missions are different, unlike GTA.
 
  
  The game starts as your character; you are roaming the streets when you are attacked by other gangs 
 in Stillwater. You are about to die, but are saved by the head of the 3rd Street Saints Julius. 
 He proposes that you join the Saints. You do, and help the Saints take over Stillwater. Okay, so 
 it sounds corny, but if you play the actual game, there is much more to it, such as the intriguing 
 characters and their vast differences. Saints Row does lack in some ways. The first one is of course 
 its re-playablitiy. Sure, it does have tons and tons of side missions, but those get extremely 
 repetitive, and unless you want to spend a lot of time on that, then that is all a waste. The story 
 is extremely short and not re-playable at all. Frankly, this game is really only worth renting. 
 It is beatable within about 4-5 hours. Once youre done that, all there is the side activities, 
 and that's it. There is the 'online' mode, but I find this very boring and stupid. I believe this 
 a feature that isn't really worth being there.
  
  My final rating, an 8. Saints Row is revolutionary in its intriguing plot, it's 'fun' combat, and 
 its customization. Saints Row is also short, and can't be replayed... unless you want to play online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir_Badshah
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game is some of my favorites..
  
  We know that Saint's Row is inspired by several games.
  The game is created on a very entertaining 
 way.
  They made many great effects, awesome graphics and the cool ragdoll psychics and the list goes 
 on....
  
  -The Graphics-
  Are awesome! I mean, there is even butterflies flying around. Everything is very good detailed. 
 And there's like different effects for when you're indoor and outdoor, when it's raining and when 
 it's foggy.
  The cars are also nice. They took some cool cars in the game like, Honda Civic, (a strange) Hummer 
 (kinda car) , Mitsubishi's, Cadillac...
  Who doesn't love crashed cars or crashin' a car? Violation Inc. did use plenty of their time on 
 the damage effects, and psychis.
  The car looks awesome when it is totaled with it's crashed metal. (They used a creative way to 
 made their damaged cars, they aren't as damaged as they look like)
  But, in this game, it looks amazing!
  
  -The Sound-
  I was kinda wonderin' how they actually 
 made their sound effects. They sound awesome. There is many different kind of sounds when you crash 
 your car into 'something'.
  It also depends on how fast you're driving, what you're crashin' into, how you're crashin' into, 
 and do you or don't you - get Flat'ed-out of your car?
  Backgrounds sound is amazing.. Also it's not like other games in this genre where the sound plays 
 again and again..
  But, in this game, it sounds amazing!
  
  -The Music-
  I Loooove the music in this game! There're all kinds of music. Rap For Thugs , Hip-Hop For Gangstas 
 , Rock For Drivers , Punk For Sk8ers , Metal For ??? , Classic For Tom &amp; Jerry Lovers , Easy 
 Listening It might be for your friends parents, I don't really know.. 
  A very nice thing is that if you don't turn off your engine and get out of the car, the radio still 
 plays (if it's on) . It's cool with those psychics. Also they really got into realism - the bass 
 sounds much stronger when you hear the radio from the outside. (The sound changes if you open any 
 door or if the vehicle don't have a/some doors)
  I didn't wanted to say this = there isn't any songs from the 70s, or 80s...
  But, in this game, 
 the music is amazing!
  
  -Gameplay-
  Awesome and easy. Not like GTA, if it was what you though.
  Another cool thing is shooting while 
 driving a car. Also Called Drive-by. You don't get confused like you did in Mafia, where you couldn't 
 hit any enemies with that feature.
  Your friends do also shoot at the target. So that's real Action man! In some car crashes, your 
 character flyes out of the front window. We all know that, first time we saw that, was in Flatout.
 
  But, in this game, the gameplay us amazing!
  
  -Value-
  This game didn't got commercialised on the cool way that might be cause of it's unknown'ness. Not 
 many know this game, which is bad. : (
  
  -Overall-
  This game is just BEAUTIFUL. You'll never get tired of this game. You can do activities like - 
 Help a dude Drug Trafficking, Hijack cars for a dude, Help a dude finding special cars, Cause Havoc 
 on the marked area, Rob a store (Garages, Gun-shops, Clothes-shops, Diamond-Shops and more..) , 
 Race against idiots and many many many other things..
  The missions include, Shooting, Chasing, Driving, Drive-by's, Protecting, Getaways, Police Chases 
 and more..
  
  Also, this is the awesomest game in it's genre.
  
  Ya know..
  
  The Getaway
  True Crime
  Gangs of London
  Total Overdose
  Hit &amp; Run
  (EVEN) Grand 
 Theft Auto
  
  Saint's Row OWNS these!! I know that SR got many of their ideas from GTA - But GTA wanted to run 
 thier GTA3 career instead of thinkin' of a bit newer engine to thier game (...) so that is their 
 problem..:)
  
  That was all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unknown_Killa_0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for quite a while, and up to today i haven't got bored of this game. It involves 
 a lot of stuff from GTA, like various weapons, cars, especially cloth. If your into killing people, 
 drug dealing, or just simply your up to taking some territory, then this game is for you. Graphics 
 are preatty nice and smooth. There's also tons of stuff to do around to keep having fun like activities 
 for instance. Although i must agree that this game does contain some glitches, for example when 
 out of nowhere your cars disappears in your sitting in mid-air and rush back in your car in continue 
 driving. But obove all, these glitches hardly appear and some are funny when they do happen. If 
 your looking at this game for online gameplay only, i wouldn't really recommend it because there's 
 a lot of kill/death glitches which get annoying after a while (especially while sniping) , but if 
 you can get around this then it could be preatty fun. There's 6 game modes so that you can switch 
 the fun around or so you can have it your way. Overall, no matter what you do, you will always 
 find fun towards you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  this game is like gta with a twist. Its just like san andreas accept it seems like you can customize 
 your cars a bit more, driving is a breeze, especially handbreaking, there are just alot more features 
 in this game that grand theft auto needs, like the fact that you can kick the back door in to a 
 store and crack the safe and steal the money inside. there are ALOT of cars, and they are all customizable, 
 and you can get your wanted level down with anything, no more of that pay and spray woah i cant 
 touch that crap. and its not that you store how many cars you fit in your garage, you drive the 
 car in and the game saves it, then to load it, you go the the thing outside of your garage and 
 there is a unique system that lets you select your car, it even makes the sound of when it starts 
 for you (which is cool) i only rented this game, but totally think that its worth buying, if you 
 like GTA, you'll love this game. I also didnt get a chance to test out the multiplayer, but i'd 
 like to see what that is like 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommyboy200
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 5:41 pm PT
Review:  it was the best gtame i ever played i really injoyed it it is very addicting i played alll the 
 time it is kinda stupid how it ended tho even with the two exra missions at the end end if you 
 did them like how try is a cop it could of ended better like with a saints row two or some thing 
 like that its a lot like gta with ever thing i like how you can hold up stores and stuff and steel 
 cars over all i really love it its a game i tell my friends to play and if you read this i and 
 havent played it you are just stupid and you must go out and buy it right now so turn off your 
 comp and go get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  THQ had a great idea to make a GTA-like game in between san andreas and gta IV. when i first saw 
 it, i said stuff like this game is going to suck and stuff. i finally decided to rent it. i was 
 shocked. the graphics are amazing, the gameplay, yet exactly the same as gta, is great, the story 
 is not that great like the gta games though. its awesome that you can create your own character. 
 this game has too much hip hop that is not hip hop. its actually really funny. the game is really 
 short, which is kind of a letdown, but just like any gta game, it has a lot of side missions which 
 will keep you playing after you beat the core missions. The map in this game is amazing. you dont 
 have to unlock the whole city one section at a time, which will have an impact on the free roaming 
 part of the game. this game is so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWalGamer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is an open world 3rd person shooter set in the city of Stilwater. You play as a fully 
 customizable character and member of the 3rd Street Saints, a small time gang looking to get to 
 the top. However, the other 3 gangs in the area, The Vice Kings, The Westside Rollerz, and Los 
 Carnales, are HUGE and practically unstoppable. That's where you come in. Your job as a gun toting 
 gangster is to gain Respect by completing side missions called activities and getting more and 
 more respect. The more respect you get, the higher the respect meter gets. After you rack up enough 
 respect, you can do actual missions taking down the other 3 gangs. The single-player campaign is 
 fun enough and there are many different activities and other missions to keep you interested. However, 
 the single-player is not even close to GTA's single-player. To be fully honest, the thing that 
 keeps Saints Row interesting is its multiplayer. There are many multiplayer modes and co-op modes 
 that keep it very fun. With the addition of online gangs, multiplayer is just totally addictive 
 and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicemachine345
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row for the 360 is the first next-gen offering from Volition, the same studio that brought 
 us The Punisher back in 2004. Taking its inspirations from Grand Theft Auto, Saints Row is a third-person 
 sandbox title that throws you into the fictional American city Stilwater  a run-down and degraded 
 modern city that has become over-run by 3 domineering street gangs  the powerful and business-orientated 
 Vice Kings; Hispanic drug-traffickers Los Carnales and car-mod homies, Westside Rollerz. After 
 using an extensive create-a-gangsta mode (by my own calling, mind you) to create a virtual playa 
 to use to fight the Stilwater streets, you are initiated into the 3rd Street Saints, a gang once 
 on top of running the ins and outs of Stilwater, but has since been over-shadowed by the 3 other 
 gangs. Without the need for going into too much detail, the single-player story generally revolves 
 around you and your gang shooting and brawling off the impending gangs and their leaders in an 
 attempt to win back the city of Stilwater and put the Saints back in the saddle. The story itself 
 is very B-movie and not at all deep, nor does it ever truly mature. There are plot twists, betrayals 
 and the like, but its all standard fair and is similar to anything you could turn on at 10pm on 
 Channel 5 on the weekend. However, this simplicity lends well to the games cartoony appearance. 
 While you are blowing up and destroying up the traffic and scenic environment in Saints Row, you 
 are reminded that you are playing an overly obsessed action-hero video game by the discretely simple 
 look of the pedestrians, cars and buildings. Although, that said, everything is detailed very thoroughly 
 and the graphics are by no means represented in a childish, cel-shaded fashion. With every day-time 
 shadow passing over the roads and real-time lighting from a car headlight flashing in your eye, 
 you never get the impression you are playing in a comic-book world. Stilwater itself is designed 
 inherently to be very reminiscent of real-life USA city Detroit, so its landscape is very industrial 
 and capitalist, but in places is admittedly a little bland. Technically however, playing the game 
 is very absorbing. Havok physics are used to help flop characters and objects around, making the 
 activity of running someone down in a raging sports car a hilarious feat to undertake.
  
  Speaking of activities, Saints Row's main crux is its various activities you can perform to help 
 you earn enough respect to be granted main story progression. Ultimately, activities are in no 
 way related to the storyline, but they do other some fun alternatives and break-ups to the main 
 missions. They are practically side-missions, but unlike GTA, they are not simple taxi fare quests 
 that grow repetitious and deviate from the enjoyable story missions. One of my favourites is Insurance 
 Fraud, where you are inclined to claim financial investment by inhabitability throwing yourself 
 into oncoming road traffic to reap money from your injuries. Because the activity uses the games 
 advanced ragdoll physics to perform these acts of self-infliction, watching your character smack 
 into the front-end of a speeding pick-up and ricochet off with damaging force can be very humorous 
 to watch. Other activities include Snatch, a pimp-in-shining-armour affair where you are trusted 
 to take back hoes for your clients ahem businesses; Drug-Trafficking where you accompany a drug 
 lord on their daily supply rounds while you help to fight off persistent arrivals of rival gangs 
 and the po-po; Hitman, a game of malevolent manhunt where you prey for listed pedestrians around 
 the city and take them out for cash and, among others, a batch of more basic activities such as 
 racing, car chop shops and an amusing demolition derby dome that balance out the crazier and more 
 eccentric set of activities. Finishing all these activities and the story missions will take a 
 fair bit of time - playing and re-playing different activities and unlocking new missions . You 
 can finish the story in less than a couple of days, but there is a lot to do afterwards, such as 
 modding up your favourite rides or simply starting an old-fashioned car chase with the police squads 
 and FBI. The A. I. is easy to overcome in small groups on your lonesome, but standing off against 
 masses of law enforcements can be a daunting task. If you need some help though, you can always 
 recruit gang friends to take along and fight alongside you. Unfortunately, however, the exhilaration 
 of a cross-city chase can somewhat be hampered by an occasionally bumpy frame-rate, which can unforgivably 
 take away from the entire experience of battling the menagerie of ever-present cops and gang enemies.
 
  
  Controlling your homie is often very intuitive, both on-foot and car controls flourish thanks to 
 a weighty physics engine. Switching weapons is portrayed in a circular and selective process where 
 you must hold the B button to bring up a circle of weapon holsters that you can select by either 
 choosing up, down, left, right or diagonal in any direction to pick your desired weapon. It is 
 a capable system but is sometimes hindered by a lack of control available when participating in 
 the middle of a fire-fight. Unlike most third-person sandbox games, Saints Row opts for a free-flowing 
 aiming system using the right thumbstick, along the same vein as how a first-person shooter would 
 control. This system of freedom when shooting your opponents is a refreshing addition to such a 
 tired and re-used genre that is adverse to doing anything different in terms of gameplay.
  
  Weapons of course play a big part in Saints Row and for the most part you are given a vast 
 amount of weaponry to go about your killing with. You have your shooter defaults, such as various 
 types of pistols, sub-machine guns and rifles, and then your shooter essentials such as rocket 
 launchers and pipe bombs. All the weapons have nice sound effects to them, as a distant enemy's 
 AK47's bullets impressively echo throughout streets, as does mass explosions on the sidewalks of 
 Stilwater. Coupled with firearms, you are also open to use a range of melee weapons, including 
 baseball bats, crowbars, knives and your own fisty-cuffs. Getting into a brawl can often be messy 
 but at the same time oddly enjoyable. There's something stranegly endearing about watching your 
 helpless sparring partner fly back and complete a mini-somersault after being on the receiving 
 end of your mighty uppercut!
  
  If you get tired of the single-player portion of the game, there is a meaty online multiplayer 
 section for up to 12 players through Xbox Live. Featuring a steady matchmaking party system similar 
 to Halo 2 and clan-making options with updated leader boards, street warfare is played in a set 
 of 4 different online modes: Gangsta Brawl and Team Gangsta Brawl (standard deathmatch and with 
 teams respectively) ; Big Ass Chains and Team Big Ass Chains, where the object is to collect fallen 
 players bling-bling and drop your earnings off at a shifting point throughout the map; Protect 
 the Pimp, where one of two teams acquires a sturdy and powerful pimp denoted in a purple pimp hat 
 that has the ability of a one-kill pimp slap to protect himself from the other team whose objective 
 is to eliminate their rival teams pimp, and finally Blinged Out Ride, another team-based game 
 where each team starts the game with a beat-up car and must collect enough money and fallen bling-bling 
 to send the team car to the repair shop in different stages before the other team polished up their 
 ride. There are also a couple of slow-paced co-op missions to play for up to 2 players, but both 
 levels seem extremely tacked-on and lack any real depth to make them remotely interesting. An interesting 
 aspect to the online side of Saints Row is earning cash when you win/complete games. With this 
 hard-earned green, you can purchase new clothing items and accessories to slap onto your multi-player 
 character. You may think this is a bit pointless, but it does serve an elusive 'bragging rights' 
 purpose with your friends when you manage to buy a surly, pink pimp coat to show off in while your 
 peers are still lumbering around in their pathetic, 2-bit demin jacket. Furthermore, promised Downloadable 
 Content is also in full-swing, with both free and cost-based single-player and multi-player outfits 
 and online maps already available to download.
  
  Online, the game is certainly fun but can suffer from hiccups of lag, and if you want to play using 
 the matchmaking system, the host is decided randomly from the list of joining players, so you will 
 have to hope you join with players who are relatively local and have decent connections! When you 
 do get a good game going, however, the online experience can be very fun with friends.
  
  To conclude, I decided not to let rip on Saints Row for essentially being a blatant rip-off of 
 the Grand Theft Auto essence, but to accommodate an amicable insight into the games own merits 
 and evaluate those, instead of inordinately comparing it to the GTA series. With that said, while 
 Saints Row may not be wholesomely original, it is a fun and easy game to pick up and play. Its 
 story doesnt run too deep and neither does its often shallow gameplay, but ironically this works 
 to its advantage. For their first foray into the next-gen sandbox frontline, Volition could have 
 certainly done a hell of a lot worse. If you are prone to enjoy any type of action or sandbox games, 
 Saints Row is definitely worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BudokaiT
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  Sure GTA: Sa has some better features but hell Saint's Row owns that Grand Theft Auto piece of crap. 
 Although their are more weapons and you can stab people in the neck with SA Saint's Row is better.
 
  
  
  As the gameplay does lack some features you still can't beat it. The story to me never gets boring. 
 You have quite a big variety of weapons and each one is good in it's own way. The characters each 
 have their own unique personality, like King, he's calm, deadly, and patient (odd for a gangster 
 huh?) . Overall gameplay whoops.
  
  
  The graphics could be better but are some of the best i've seen. Although they can be choppy at 
 times, they rock. It's a very detailed game (graphics) and the design of every thing is really nice. 
 These graphics are 10x better then Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
  
  
  
  I gave the sound and eight because on mine the 
 voices are always talking ahead of each other, you know what I mean? But the effects are great 
 , and so is how everyone's voice is done. The sound is probably the worst part of the game but 
 it still rocks everything.
  
  
  This game rules and definetly deserves a 9.4 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgjunkey34n8
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  ok this game is no gta, but it is by far the next best thing in the sandbox. first off the graphics 
 are sweet. the player models look good the cars look great and the environments are fookin awsome. 
 the aiming system is very responsive while on foot, but it gets a little shaky while steering a 
 car and trying to maneuver the aiming reticale, other then that the control system is pretty flawless. 
 now one of my favorite parts of the game is customization, this games strongest point (where it 
 out-shines gta) you create your own character which has a large amount of options. the cars are 
 customizable and have a vast amount of parts and a much larger selection of paint colors then gta 
 sa. the missions are pretty good, i mean they arent really much of a challenge but they are satisfying. 
 while the graphics are great and the game play is super solid the map is pretty frikkin small. 
 i mean its like 1/4 of gta sa map, that was a problem for me cause i expected much bigger then 
 what i got on my NEXT GEN system. the more i played the less i cared about the map. i have beat 
 it four times and i play a little now and then but after a second or third time it'll lose its 
 appeal. its a bit short and doesnt offer a huge amount of side missions, but overall the game is 
 a must own tittle for your 360. and come on nothing is to good fa ya wittle xbox 360.
  
  video game junkey done, now go play this gamizzle my dizzles
  
  
  foooooeeee **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veer-zaara
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  Although compared to the GTA series, Saints Row is actually a unique gaming experience.
  
  Gameplay - The game has realistic weapons from sound to the weapon design, also you don't have 
 auto aim. There is large weapon selection from semi-automatic handguns to machine guns, grenades 
 and the good ol' rpg. While there is not a lot there is a good selection of vehicles, from sedans 
 to bulldozers, from sports cars to media vans, from luxury cars to pimpmobiles the game has a great 
 variety of different vehicles and most of these can be customised. The games customisation options 
 are quite good. While the only ones which effect the way the car drives are nitrous, there is a 
 great amount of appearance changing options, averaging at about seven different things you can add 
 and there is usual around three different things in each of those. The changes you can make include 
 spoilers, roofs, hoods, body kits, rims, bumpers and much more. There is also a great variety of 
 paint styles, from gloss, matte, candy (sp) and metallic. There is also special iridescent paint 
 too. There is a metal colour option for rims and trims too as well as different colour window tints. 
 There are a variety of activities in the game, nine different types of activities in twenty nine 
 different locations really flesh out the gameplay.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are quite good looking, the city of Stilwater is an amazing place. There's 
 also a good day and night cycle which gives the game a more realistic feel. Another bonus too the 
 graphics is the cutscenes that precede missions and activities. These are great looking and help 
 make the deep storyline.
  
  Sound - Having a solid music system, Saint's row has music from genres like rap, rock, and classical. 
 Each genre has around thirty songs and by collecting hidden Cds it's possible to unlock several 
 more songs. By creating a playlist you can listen to the music anywhere but you can only access 
 the radio in a car. As well as the this the voice acting is phenomenal with each character having 
 a different tone and style. The leader of the Saints, voiced by Keith David to your rival gangs 
 leader, voiced by Michael Clarke Duncan, is exceptional and several other high ranking gang members 
 are voiced well too. 
  
  Story - Their is a deep story has you take on the three rival gangs of Stilwater and learn more 
 about the Saints as you go along. You can choose to fight the families in order or all at the same 
 time but either way the inspirational characters and excellent voice acting will provide you with 
 a wonderful story with a dramatic conclusion. 
  
  Saints Row is definitely a good game even though its GTA clone. Can't wait for Saints Row 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bighawk911
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a lot like GTA San Andreas but not as much fun. So much of these games are based 
 on driving that Ilike having the option of all kinds of transportation, which is lacking in Saints 
 Row.
  
  I thurally enjoyed the GTA titles but after playing the recent shooters on the 360 I feel like 
 I am wasting my life driving around the city looking for respect missions that are necessary to 
 move the story forward.
  
  This game is for gamers that are such huge fans of GTA that they can't wait for Rockstar to come 
 out with the next title. I'm about 50% done with this game and I think I'm going to get a shooter.
 
  
  Even though there are no substantial side missions in Crackdown I feel like you should still play 
 crackdown before investing a huge chunk of your life into Saints Row.
  
  The opening soundtrack has some great wutang hip hop, but I can't get those songs bumpin' on any 
 of the stations while playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: englishkid2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  Saints row is a sandbox game and like any other it tries to copy the GTA franchise, it does this 
 very well with the range of cars custiomization, clothes etc. I think it's too easy and theres 
 no replayability, and the game finishes with a stupid ending. The activitiies and side missions 
 are quie easy but fun at first, they get harder near the end of the chain of missions but still 
 nothing is to difficult. The achievements are easy but time consuming, the driving like the handling 
 of the cars works well but sometimes the AI driving of the other cars is anoying as they get in 
 your way and cannot drive at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanWandin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 12, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I am tired of all this Saints Row is a half assed rip-off of San Andreas .
  
  Saints Row brings tons of cool features to the public that make SR so different to SA. I heard 
 people talking about how SA could've been improved, what sucked about it what could've been improved 
 and what was needed, I'd imagine Saints Row delivered all of that and more.
  
  No building loading times is a major step up, and the 360 directional firing from the cars. SR 
 is a god send.
  
  Basically the point is, if you want to enjoy this game to the fullest extent, you can't compare 
 it to other Gangster Beat 'em up style games.
  
  The Good:
  
  -No City Loading Times
  -Call a taxi when you want to go places
  -Call your homies for help
  -Rag Doll physics
  -The 
 fire emits heat waves
  -The use of drugs and alchohol
  -Carrying food and drinks
  -Melee weapon attacks
  -Kicking as well as Punching
  -Wide variety of pedestrians and criminals
 
  -In-Depth character creation
  -The sounds the game makes are incredible
  
  The Bad:
  
  -Some of the noticeable glitches that happen from time to time
  -The Story is a little bland 
 at times
  -No 'Hot Coffee' style activities
  -When the cars explode, they sometimes fly off making the game look sorta bad.
  
  -Car modification 
 could be a little better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Willy-Wilks_777
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a third-person action adventure, gang warfare game that is practically a BIG Grand 
 Theft Auto rip off which lets the game down and spoils it as well. The story first starts off as 
 your character is walking down the street thinking he is all that, he stops by a lady, starts flirting 
 with her so on and so on and so on. Until a gang called the Vice Kings find a West Side Rollers 
 logo graphitised on a wall and start tagging over it and then the West Side Rollers arrive at 
 the scene and have an argument then one of them hits a Vice King in the head with a baseball bat 
 and all hell breaks loose. Later on the Los Canarlos arrive and does drive-bys then their car explodes 
 and a Vice King attempts to kill you but obviously he gets shot, you live and you get recruited 
 to join the 3rd Street Saints.
  
  Now. Lets talk about the gameplay. The way you character runs is weird looking as you run like 
 a gimp which doesnt suit the game too often. The handy thing is, is that when you start to sprint 
 there is a little yellow bar at the top right hand screen which decreases the more you sprint. 
 Do you remember when whenever you entered a car on GTA that it comes up with the name? Well guess 
 what. Saints Row has that feature. Remember the radio stations you can listen to on GTA. Saints 
 Row includes that. Remember when you pause the game you can look at your stats to see how many 
 people you have killed and so on. Well again Saints Row has it and the thing that annoyed me was 
 the bloody adverts they showed in between radio stations because with the adverts in GTA they were 
 funny and well written but in Saints Row it got on my nerves because they werent well written 
 and it was trying to be funny when it was just plain sad and crap! The physics is quite good because 
 in GTA when you left a car door open you could walk straight through it and if you reverse into 
 a building or a pedestrian again the door goes straight through and nothing happens but in Saints 
 Row the door smashes off and when you reverse into a ped they get knocked over. The collisions 
 are not so good as it seems kind of rushed and didnt impress me too much. Now the graphics. It 
 isnt as good as other games because most of the time if you look carefully there are little tiny 
 dots spread across the screen (you can definitely notice this with the eyebrows and windows) the 
 graphics in the cut scenes are well made and focused which gives it a thumbs up. The fire is also 
 well textured, (far more impressive than some other 360 games) .
  
  There are also a ton load of glitches that occur during free roam like when you are driving the 
 car disappears and you are floating in mid air. Also if you collide into a bin or post it goes 
 into the car, not impressive and there are plenty more glitches that I can explain which would 
 make a big ass list.
  
  
  The thing that really annoys me the most is the online gameplay. GOD! It is sooo god damn frustrating! 
 You die so easily it only takes you about 3 or 4 shots with a machine gun and you are dead! Your 
 health runs low so fast and takes you practically 1 shot with a sniper and you dead. So if I were 
 you I would avoid online play as it is absolutely rubbish and a complete waste of time.
  
  All in all Saints Row is quite a good game but could definitely have hundreds of improvements done 
 to it and I wouldnt really recommend it as there are plent of other better games available in 
 shops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakko19991
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game I figured it was another GTA knock off as the rest of them, but 
 it got fairyl good reviews so I checked it out. I must say that it can hold its own in my opinion. 
 In fact , when I got this game I was in the midlle of playing San Andreas. I haven't played San 
 Andreas since. Despite the much better graphics in this game (should be better since next gen) , 
 I still feel GTA's environments feel more like a living city. The environments in this game feel 
 a littel streile given all the dirt that goes on in it.
  
  In any event, Saints Row plays just like GTA, but with imporvements in many areas where you may 
 have said you wished GTA had implemented and even ones you may have not even noticed needed improvement. 
 The most notable is the higlighting of the path to get to waypoints in the map. To me this is a 
 good and bad thing. Good in that you will always get to where you are trying to go, bad because 
 you don't get a chance to absorb the city. I remember playing GTA 3 for the first time and driving 
 thorugh Liberty City felt like it was my city. Even now when I think about it it feel like a real 
 city and certain areas are familier even in my memory. In SA I have no such attachment to the city. 
 The other game elements are the side missions. They are fun and have ever increaing levels where 
 you earn more money as you level up. The cars in SA are pretty fun and there seems like there is 
 regularly some rare vehicle that pops up that you can add to your garage. That by the way is another 
 favorable addition to SA; you can have more than one or two cars in your garage. Rigth now I have 
 over 50 and counting... the other day I walked outside my house (in the game) and a stretch hummer 
 drove by... I jacked it.
  
  The characters are extremely varied depending on what area of the city you are in and as te game 
 progresses it seems new character types appear. The only issue I have is, unlike in GTA, when you 
 go to certain supposedly areas of ethnic concentration you do not see the characters reflect that. 
 For example, in GTA if you go to China town there characters reflect what you would see in a real 
 china town in any major city. Although the characters vary in SA the ethnic diversity seems basal.
 
  
  I talk so much about the environment becasue to me, in these types of games environment plays a 
 big role in pulling you into it.
  
  Gameplay wise SA is good and the more I play the less I look at it as a GTA holdover. It stands 
 on its own 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon236
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  True you can definately tell this game copied GTA, but they add new features that make it a bit 
 better than the Grand Theft Auto franchise. These features include Insurance Fraud: Jumping out 
 in front of cars and causing the most damage to your body, in which it earns you money. Thats the 
 coolest thing about it. Also you can drink Liqour and smoke a joint lol. The car customization 
 is alot more intense than in any other ''GTA like game''.
  The only dissapointment in this game is when you shoot somebody there are no bullet holes in the 
 body, i thought this was a ''Next Gen Console''? Anyways if you own a XBOX 360 you should definately 
 buy this game, you will not be dissapointed. The only thing that keeps me from giving this game 
 a 10 is the graphics are good but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarfacedld731
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  very good game with fantastic guns one of the best games ever made if not THE best with gun sounds 
 (gunshots) . its a lot like gta in a lot of ways but changes those things it copies from it and 
 makes them better on the 360. very fun gameplay and missions are really good too. the missions 
 are more fun than gta's in my opinion but im sure many other would disagree. the graphics are good 
 but not to the 360s full potential. the car design is good but i think the 360 could also have 
 done better. good quality game with good sound guns cars missions blood and good shoot em up worth 
 buying and renting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike11230
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is pac with action from the beginig to the end and specialy caugth my atention the video 
 secuenses those are the best i've ever seen in a game before. the game itself is unice so dont 
 think its like gta just because you walk aroumd and steal car this game is awsome. at first you 
 get to build your guy at you r taste then you star aut in a gang the gam is basicly to clean the 
 hole town from the oder gangs its pretty good. so i wont tell more i just say you get the game 
 and play it you wont be disapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarbyXCrash
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 13, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  When developer Rockstar North made the Grand Theft Auto series, they must have known there would 
 be the inevitable following of similar games that reflect the free-roam atmosphere which GTA 
 mastered. Some of these games were worth renting; many were not. And if the average gamer became 
 jaded and pessimistic after the Simpsons spin-off Hit &amp; Run, then there is hope for the 
 genre yet.
  
  Saints Row, the product of developer Volition Inc. and THQ, will seem very familiar at a glance 
 to anyone who has played Grand Theft Auto, in that you have a character, he has a gun, and you 
 can make him do what you want when you want to. The similarities end there. Once your character 
 is ready, you will immediately be plunged into an in-depth and immersing world, led by many respectable 
 characters, whose voice-overs are very professionally done by such B-Lists as Michael Clarke Duncan, 
 Freddy Rodriguez, Keith David, Michael Rapaport, Tia Carrere, and David Carradine, among others.
 
  
  Upon beginning the single-player mode of Saints Row, you will be prompted to create a character. 
 This precise and impressive process allows you to create a mirror image of yourself after enough 
 work. Throughout the game he will remain the silent protagonist (except for a few hilarious lines) 
 as you complete missions for the 3rd Street Saints, one of the four gangs in the city.
  
  While the story mode missions are a strong focus of the game play, those with shorter attention 
 spans may completely ignore them should they choose to simply wander the streets instead. There 
 is never a shortage of things to do in the fictional city of Stilwater, an industrial cross between 
 Boston, Los Angeles, and New York. The field of play is huge, taking ten minutes to cross in the 
 fastest car you can find.
  
  Scattered all over the city are side-missions, which serve as ancillary entertainment, a source 
 of money and, most importantly, respect, which, when earned, will unlock new story missions. These 
 side-missions include working for a chop shop, as a hit man, or just creating havoc in the streets. 
 My personal favorite, Insurance Fraud, involves throwing your character in front of traffic to 
 earn money from lawsuits. This, combined with the Havok physics engine, creates hilarious collisions 
 which send your character hurling through the air like a rag doll.
  
  Each of the three main story mission arcs involve a different rival gang, each with their own colors, 
 weapons, cars, and major characters. The West Side Rollerz gang is involved mostly in car racing 
 and trading, the Los Carnales gang specializes in weapon and drug trade, and the Vice Kings gang 
 operates like a mafia, infiltrating the police force and music industry. Throughout the story missions, 
 you will dismantle each of these gangs and claim their territory in the name of the Saints.
  
  Game play is outstanding, with several improvements over similar games, such as an enhanced 
 weapon aiming system, responsive driving controls, and a brilliant health system, which allows 
 your character to heal gradually once out of combat. Also, with respect earned, you can recruit 
 homies that will follow you and fight with you. These features make for a very impressive and 
 entertaining experience that remains fun long after the story missions are completed.
  
  Multiplayer over Xbox Live is fun for a time, but does grow tiresome once it has been experienced 
 throughout. With up to 12 players in an online game. There are various modes that can be played, 
 from a battle royale gang war, to a mode entitled Protect The Pimp, in which one player on each 
 team is protected by the other players, and the round ends when one team assassinates the others 
 pimp. The multiplayer game play is interesting and original, but becomes frustrating, with lag 
 being common in large games.
  
  Graphically, Saints Row is amazing. You can traverse the entire city without seeing one loading 
 screen, not even when entering buildings. Every character, even civilians walking the street, is 
 incredibly detailed, so much that you can see their eye color and individual teeth. There were 
 some rare glitches in the graphics that would require a restart in the mission, but nothing too 
 serious.
  
  The games audio may go unnoticed, but lend an ear and it will impress. Aside from the wide variety 
 of music, announcements and commercials will reflect what is happening in the city. When the radio 
 says there is a sale at Friendly Fire, the neighborhood gun shop, then there is one, and you 
 can get 15 percent off that RPG youve always wanted. Accordingly, if you rob a store or destroy 
 a subway, it will make the news on the radio.
  
  Overall, Saints Row is an incredibly impressive game. The game will establish itself not so much 
 as a mimic of GTA, but will hold its own, and in many ways, surpass GTA. Saints Row is released 
 on Xbox 360 and will be released on PS3 soon. Saints Row is rated Mature for violence, blood, strong 
 language, and suggestive themes, so if you are not easily influenced and can relax your conscience 
 for 20-30 hours of game play, Saints Row may just be what youve been waiting for. At the very 
 least, it can hold you over until GTA IV.
  
  SAINTS ROW - 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I love this game first off. I love the grand theft auto games and a lot of games like it, like 
 this one. It is a really long game if you do the main story line and all the activites in the game 
 too. Im only about 20% through the game and ive been playing for over 3 hours. Insurance fraud 
 is really fun, i could spend hours just doing that alone to see how badly I can get hit. This game 
 is like gta in the manner that its got non-linear gameplay, that you can customize your looks ( 
 clothing and bodily features) , and that you can hold many weapons at the same time. Except in this 
 game, you can buy food and use it to heal yourself in battle which, during some missions, you probably 
 will have to use them. Some more than others. And GTA has never been known to be a high graphic 
 series, but this game is wondefrully done, especially the explosions.
  
  But overall this game's price is slowly decreasing and I picked up a like new copy online for $30. 
 So my opinion is that this game is definetly worth that much money. But I dont think its worth 
 $40 or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwertipopp
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  This game will inevitably be compared to the mighty GTA series but it's not a clone it's more like 
 a younger brother with less experience. As well as reviewing things like sound, graphics and extras 
 I've added in what it's like as different genres i. e as a shooter
  
  As a shooter-Realistic health levels and damaging weapons prevent it from simply being a case of 
 shot everything that moves. Your health regenerates but that dosen't stop shoot outs being any 
 less intense. You can have up to three other people with you depending on how far you are with 
 the story and your're need them if your're looking to survive long. The weapon selection has semi-automatic 
 handguns, machine guns, grenades, Molotov cocktails and ,the old favourite, the rpg. At first the 
 gunplay feels somewhat uninspired but as you get better and fight more and more enemies you begin 
 to realise just how good it is. As a driving game-The game has two different sets of races and 
 they both have 8 different levels so overall there's 16 races. While this is not a lot there is 
 a splendid selection of vehicles, from pick ups, to bulldozers, from sports cars to media vans, 
 from luxury cars to pimpmobiles the game has a great variety ,around fifty, different vehicles 
 and most of these can be customised. The games customisation options are surprisingly good. While 
 the only ones which effect the way the car drives are nitrous and hydraulics, there is a vast amount 
 of appearance changing options, averaging at about seven different things you can add and there 
 is usual around three different things in each of those (generally stock, sport and street) . The 
 changes you can make include spoilers, roofs, hoods, body kits, rims, bumpers and more. There is also 
 a great variety of paint styles, from gloss, matte, candy, pearlesent (sp) and metallic. There is 
 also special iridescent paint too. There is a metal colour option for rims and trims too as well 
 as different colour window tints.
  
  Graphics-The graphics are not especially good looking but then stilwater is not an especially nice 
 place so it suits the mood. There's also a good night and day cycle which adds to the realism. 
 Another bonus too the graphics is the cutscenes that precede missions and activities. These are 
 great looking and help make the surprisingly deep story yet more immersive.
  
  Activities- This is where the game picks up major points. The variety of activities is almost staggering 
 in all, nine different types and twenty nine different locations really flesh out the gameplay. 
 All but one of the activities have eight increasing difficult levels. The activities themselves 
 include racing, pimping (snatch) , drug trafficking, Hijacking vehicles, Escort, hitman, mayhem, 
 demolition derby, insurance fraud and chop shop. As you complete these your earn money and respect 
 which you need to start story missions. When you complete the last level you gain a bonus such 
 as a new Homie, car, weapon or some other item. Sound- The sound effects are mediocre but this 
 gets the gold for the music. As well as having a solid DJ system Saint's row has music from genres 
 like electronica, rap, rock, metal, reggae and Classical. Each genre has around thirty songs and 
 by collecting hidden Cds it's possible to unlock several more songs. By creating a playlist you 
 can listen to the music anywhere but you can only access the radio in a car. As well as the this 
 the voice acting is phenomenal with each character having a different tone and style. The leader 
 of the Saints, voiced by Keith David, is exceptional and several other high ranking gang members 
 are voiced well too. The city of Stillwater- The city has a great variety of areas with the posher, 
 downtown area on the north side of the river and the seedier, more crime ridden areas on the south 
 side. Most of the drug trafficking and strip clubs are on the south side, while the north holds 
 the loan office and the car shops. The game has a good variety of gun, pawn, clothes, music and 
 car shops scattered around the city. For ease off travel the city also has a train system where 
 you can fast travel to other parts off the city. The games traffic system is good and people in 
 cars will drive away if you start shooting them. The police- Obviously an important part of a game 
 like this the police are dangerous enemies. If you fire off a few shots into a crowd a nearby police 
 man will start shooting and if you kill him and some other people squad cars will arrive. As you 
 kill more and more people swat and eventually FBI teams will come and try to stop you. If your're 
 in a car a helicopter will follow and roadblocks will be set up. Interestingly ,rather than simply 
 kill you police will, move in and arrest you by knocking you over, it's nice to see an added bit 
 off realism.
  
  Character customisation- Your Character can be of four different ethnic diversities, which more 
 or less boils down to what skin colour you are,
  although you can have your character looking pretty much however you want. The game has a vast 
 amount of clothes with different hats, t-shirts, jumpers, blouses, boxers, shoes, jewelryetc. There' 
 a vast amount and with hair salons it's almost impossible not to like the character customisation 
 system unless you want a woman. Story- The surprisingly deep story has you take on the three rival 
 gangs of stilwater and learn more about the saints as you go along. You can choose to fight the 
 families in order or all at the same time but either way the inspirational characters and excellent 
 voice acting will provide you with a wonderful story with a dramatic conclusion Misc.- the achievements 
 are fairly good with some being more obscure than others, although they do feel a bit mundane. 
 Searching for scattered CDs and tag locations isn't really fun but you don't have to do it and 
 some people will like it so all in all it's not a bad feature. The houses you unlock are great 
 because they fell like you've earned it and they have a useful cash feature were you get so much 
 money a day depending on how many neighbourhoods you own. There's also a weapon cache where you 
 gat ammo for weapons you've unlocked and your wardrobe. You also have a phone with which you can 
 ring up the various numbers in stillwater with amusing answerphone messages Conclusion- This is 
 a great game that you simply cannot yet pass you be. It has a mixture of inspirational stories, 
 with great car customisation and a character that you can truly make your own. This game mixes 
 gameplay ingredients from almost every genre and it creates a wonderful open world game that will 
 keep you occupied for hours upon end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drecula
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  Now lately there have been many wannabe GTA clones and they've all sucked like $#! t, and when I 
 saw previews for Saints Row I immediately thought here's another piece of $#! t GTA clone. After 
 playing the game I can say I was wrong and right.
  
  Yes it does copy alot of GTA mostly San Andreas but it takes from GTA and improves on; it better 
 graphics, much better controls, lots of customization ops and the npc's don't look like inbred 
 creatures and X-Box live where you create a gang and play against other gangs online. (heaps fun) 
 plus cruising around doin drive-by's while listening to Linkin Park is just priceless. =D
  
  Saints Row is fun, I mean the last time had this much fun in a free roaming game was when SA 
 first came out, but after a while SA got booooring, real boooring.
  
  So I was wrong Saints Row isn't $#! t and even if it is a GTA clone it's a damn good one. A great 
 addition to any gamers library. =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonyrules36
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Ok lets start with the positives shall we. This game is really addictive do some of you find yourself 
 running over people to see them go flying for about an hour cause I know i do. There are alot of 
 things you can do in this game like hijacking, hold ups, theft, hitman, stealing ho's, and lots more.
 
  the mission system is good the way you can choose which mission you want to do and which gang 
 you wanna take out.
  
  Ok for the negatives. Do you find yourself on the highway and just see cars disappearing sometimes 
 thats a small lag but it could affect some of your missions especially insurance fraud missions. The 
 AI ain't the best thing ever like when you jump over a small stone wall or fence and your recruits 
 keep running into the wall or fence, The worst of it though would be when you have 4 or 5 stars 
 on your cop notoriety and you get into a car and your recruits take awhile to get in your jumping 
 off your couch going COME ON GET IN THE F***ING CAR! But other than those things you wont get tired 
 of the game to fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyle-244
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  First off im just going to say that I love this game, I have played it for about 35 hours and have 
 completed the story mode, Its highly addictive and not just a gta rip-off. Saints row thakes place 
 in stillwater and you are part of the 3rd street saints. first off you create your player, you 
 get to choose its race, change its face/body to your liking, eyecolor, hair etc. When you have 
 your person created a video shows how you are recruited to the 3rd street saints. You cant just 
 go in and do the story missions though, you have to do 'activities' to earn respect to unlock story 
 missions, there is plenty of activities to choose from, ranging from a hitman , to street racer. 
 You probbaly wont get bored of these activities because there is a lot of variety ( hitman, pimp, streetracer, drug 
 trafficing, to name a few.) Now, you earn money by doing the mission or you can rob stores, point 
 your gun at the clerk, they will take you to the safe and open it, you take the money, its just 
 a really neat way to earn a bit of extra cash. You can also customize your cars in this game, you 
 can take any old car off the street and take it into a shop called rim jobs they have a lot of 
 things you can customize (color, convertable or hard top, rims, etc.) you can kill cops and you 
 will get your police wanted level up, if you kill gang members you will get your gang member wanted 
 level up, but if you kill gang members the police will not care, and if you kill cops gang members 
 wont care, but if the heat gets to hot for you to handle you can go into a place called forgive 
 and forget, andd they will take away your wanted level for a price. This game will probably take 
 around 17-20 hours to beat for the average gamer, bt it took me a bit longer because I just took 
 my time and had fun with it. So there you go folks, my review of the game, hope you like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tazzydnc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of the GTA series from sony consoles. I borrowed this game from a friend not expecting 
 a whole lot. The reviews I read gave me the impression that though good, Saint's Row just wasn't 
 on par with the GTA series. Personally I beg to differ. I think THQ managed to capture all the 
 great action and humor of GTA in Saint's Row. The graphics are tons better than any GTA game and 
 the gameplay is improved. Sure it may lack motorcycles and helicopters but the core gameplay changes 
 they have made rock.
  
  Compared to other 360 games the graphics are very mediocre. Compared to GTA they are phemeonal. 
 The textures are very good as well as draw distance. The framrate is prettty bad and there are 
 some screen tearing issues.
  
  The sound is also great. I really like the real music included on the many stations.
  
  Gun 
 fights in Saints row are much better than GTA with the new aiming system ala the right analog stick. 
 This alone makes the game a ton of fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belcaster234
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  cant get enough of this game it is so fun just to walk around and shoot people it gets more fun 
 every time i play the missions are fun but not as fun as walking around the city cappin off on 
 people. List of guns to have:
  sheppard Spree
  ak47
  pimp cane
  rocket hand granade
  
  to get the pimp cane is preety easy to get or tou can just use the cheat but you cant get achivements 
 which is preety dumb cause some of the last missions are hard so just dont use the cheats a lot.
 
  
  Way to get some achivements with cheats. to get the one where you need fifty cars just use the 
 cheat to put 49. save the game turn the 360 off then turn it back on and go steal a car a store 
 to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t-mac720
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  This games kicks a$$ its so fun how u customize ur character and get to get cloths and all dat 
 good stuff this game has a great storyline and is always fun the online takes pretty long to play 
 though but when u play it pretty fun if ur in to hip hop this game brings so many good songs this 
 game is way better than the gta's takin out idc watever some one says this game rocks! it's worth 
 buying not renting but BUYING! oh but the bad thing about dis game is da achievments well to me 
 it is it kindve hard ! but w. e u wont notce dat when ur playing da game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drlove06472
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Every time a Grand theft auto copy cat game comes out the fans say its a rip off of it. Well they 
 are right this about saints row. In saints row you join a gang that is looking to clean the city 
 from the other 3 gangs. The missions in the mean story are too much alike, go here and kill these 
 gang members or pick up this. There are 3 small stories instead of one big one but they all connect 
 at the end. Whats different in the game from the GTA games are the side missions. They took the 
 ideas of the missions and made little changes. For example escort mission you drive around with 
 the escort and person while trying to miss the press. In the GTA version you drop off the escort 
 and go to an other escort. Some side missions are the same like racing and looking for different 
 types of cars. Online there are 6 types of games theres gang brawl, team gang brawl, big a*s chain, 
 team big a*s chain, blinged out ride and protect the pimp. The graphs look great and detailed; 
 if you look closely you can see some times butterflies. There is lot of noticeable bugs and glitches. 
 For example some time when youre driving the car goes a way and you are just sitting in mid air. 
 There is a youtube video about the glitches that I recommend you seeing. The normal sounds are 
 like any other game. A few celebrities did voice work for this game like Tia Carrere and Keith 
 David. There is a wide selection of music from rock, hip hop and even classical. Im not going to 
 say if it bad or good because I not in to music.
  If you a fan of GTA game and would play a copy cat of it then get this game. This game would be 
 good to hold you over until GTA 4 is out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ct1257860
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  First off i like to say that i hate when people compare these game to GTA. Okay i know that they 
 started these games but why dont we just compare every shooter game to the orginal. So we should 
 all get over GTA and we all know that the last two sucked. The only good ones were 3 and sanandreas. 
 Now moving on this game is pretty good i am not that far in it. You basically do a mission then 
 a side mission which are fun. They are always different like getting hoes or high-jacking. The 
 missions are okay at best, the missions will be basically revolving around the gangs that are taking 
 over the streets. You go and shoot and some other stuff. The driving is good the quick swurve button 
 is very useful for doing sharp turns. But the shooting is just average , you can bend down but 
 they shoot have made guns you get supply more ammo because you will be killing some one and collecting 
 there ammo. Then they should make it where you can dive, it would have added more to it. The graphics 
 are good but when someone in skit movies get shot you dont really see the gore just a little splat 
 of blood definatly not like gears of war. The live all i can say is boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diehardgames2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  Gameplay- This game may look like a GTA Rip-off but it's not. Guess what you actully get to do 
 before you enter the story..... that's right you get to create a character which you normally don't 
 get to do in these types of games. When you're creating the character you want you get all sorts 
 of options like what ethnic group you would like to be in... e. g. White, African-American and more. 
 You can change the build of you character... for instence if you would like your character to be 
 fat, then make him fat or the complete opposite of that, or if you would like to make your character 
 ripped, then make him ripped. Unlike in the GTA Games you have to earn respect before you can play 
 missions whick is a great idea because i doesn't make the game a short one, they're loads of side 
 missions to do for you to earn respect like tag up rival gangs tags all over the city or take over 
 available rival strongholds. The game will take you around 20-40 hours to complete (main missions 
 wise) but they are other things to keep you going after that.
  
  Graphics- a quick segment this. The graphics are great and well worth the power of the 360 and 
 not a waste of it like some other games are.
  
  Sound- Overall the sound is great with fantastic voice overs from some famous actors and they merge 
 together very well. The downside to this is teh soundtrack by far, if you like listning to non-famous 
 singers/bands that just recorded a song for the game only and then went back into hiding untill 
 the next Saints Row game comes out.
  
  Value- GREAT VALUE FOR MONEY. that was quick and easy.
  
  Ending Comments- Overall this game 
 is great in all aspects except the sound track but that a minor thing. If you don't have this game 
 already, get it and make you gaming experience fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COD3RULER
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  fun and grate game i would say that u should by it the story lie is much beter than gtas there 
 s more weapons that actuly have names to them and the trucks actuly have trailers which is a lot 
 funner and careator creating is awsome you can change every little detail in ur gyes face very 
 fun the cars explode a lot better and theres actuly gangs not just any hobo of the street thats 
 caryin a shotgun lol and theres very well put to geher plans to light the other gangs ass up lol 
 very fun i would defantly get this game over gta 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3r7y
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is the game to get you excited and amped-up for GTA IV when it comes out later this 
 year. I think its a great sandbox game. Sandbox meaning open world, free-roaming experience. IT 
 is a very pretty game also. The explosions are bright and realistic looking. The voice acting is 
 probably the best feature of this game. With real actors that you know you've heard their voices 
 before in a movie you've seen. Like I said this game is a really pretty knock-off of GTA. Thats 
 until GTA IV comes out later this year, and if Saints Row looks this good coming from a developer 
 thats not known for their sandbox games just imagine what GTA IV will look like for the first time 
 on a next-gen console (360) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  I played and beat Saints Row back when it first came out, it was the first GTA style game that 
 I actualy bought, normaly I just rent them. As many true reviewers have said, this game stuck very 
 close to the GTA formula, but a few minor things make this game better than GTA in my mind.
  
  First, you can customise your character: This gave the game a stronger tie in to the player, 
 you are in the game, rather than playing a story driven character. The only two things I would 
 add in Saints Row 2 would be a female version, and a grouping of voice actors so that players could 
 add a voice to their character. Its neat that they mixed in your toons silence with jokes, but 
 at the same time it reminded me of old school RPGs where your character never said anything. I 
 think its time to move forward.
  
  Second, your bad but not that bad: Now this is somthing people have brought up over and over in 
 the media, GTA teaching horrid things to our kids blah, blah, blah and so on. In Saints Row, your 
 character and the 9th Street Saints are trying to clean up the city. Now that sounds great and 
 all, but once you look deeper your doing it so that you can replase the MEGA crime and the open 
 streets shootings with a more quiet crime, off the main streets and into the ally ways. So rather 
 than fighting crime in Saints Row, I would say that you and your characters are curbing it into 
 a more respectable buissness (if you could say that lol) .
  
  Other than those main differnces, and the very nice X360 graphics Saints Row sticks to the GTA 
 formula, hopefuly when the next Saints Row comes out, they add some more features and help bring 
 the gameplay forward. Lastly this game unlike GTA, didn't push what is acceptable in games, sure 
 your bad, sure you should take this game with a grain of salt and realise its just a game, but 
 unlike GTA (from what I experianced) it never takes the violance, sex and drugs to far (Ahem we 
 all remeber the big GTA: San Andres stuff) . For that THQ and Volition gain a bit of respsect from 
 me.
  
  Great game, fun to play, and a solid GTA clone, with a few changes to make it worth playing if 
 not buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 6.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  I've been playing GTA for a while GTA 3, VICE CITY, SAN ANDREAS. But i can't say this game lives 
 up to the height of the other gta games, Sure the game is good, create your own charceter, lots 
 of wepons to choose from, but when ever i pop it in, i always fell like im playing more like trure 
 crime for some reason cuze they both have very bad controls and camrea angles, I Would reccomend 
 it to anyone thats willing to play and thats it. Because some gamers don't like THQ after there 
 crapy games. The other games by THQ are not good either, hey, maybe i'm wrong, maybe you will like. 
 But it just reminds me of every crime game I have. So rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 22, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Lets just start off by saying that Saints Row does copy Grand Theft Auto's superb gameplay. And 
 yes, there's other games that copy GTA like True Crime and Driver/Driv3r. However, these copies 
 suck. Really bad. So I guess everyone who gave this a try thought it'll suck too. But it doesn't!
 
  
  It manages to be a great game in its own right. Saints Row starts off by you creating a character, 
 and there's a lot of ways to do so. Fat, skinny, Italian, really Chinese, and being a total blonde. 
 That character will then be in a cutscene where he's set into an epic battle between the 3rd Street 
 Saints and 2 other gangs. You are saved by the leader of the Saints, and you are hired to help 
 out.
  
  Saints Row has nice and unique features that GTA doesn't have. One feature is that its easier to 
 go through city. Its simple that a cav..... anyways you basically set a point on a location and 
 a path will start from where you are to there. There's also a little map circle on your bottom-left, 
 instead of pressing start and going back and forth. The custom characterization is what GTA also 
 lacks, as you can create a very funny looking or a very serious gangster. However, what Saints 
 Row lacks is that you only drive a car or walk on foot. No boats, no jumping off helicopters, or 
 popping a wheelie on your mountain bike. But what Saints Row manages to update is fine.
  
  Saints Row's graphics are great. However, for a next-generation game, you would expect more buffed 
 up graphics similar to PGR3 or Gears of War. The physics in the game, using Havok, are really cool 
 to experiment. Take for example, a shotgun. You use a shotgun to shoot a person, and that person 
 will react, then get shot, and that shot will make that person bounce up and fall to the ground. 
 The car physics are really fun especially using a rocket launcher to make it explode. The voice 
 acting in the game is really top-notch. The dialogue makes you feel that you are around these tough 
 gangsters without throwing the 'F' bomb every 2 seconds. The conversations are really funny to 
 listin. For example, 2 gangsters argue with each other of how to say their competiting gang's name. 
 Each character has a decent personality, and the humor is very dark. Very. Don't expect much nudity, 
 but a lot of sexual refrences. Especially, a mission called ESCORT, where a hooker and a customer 
 has to have pleasure in the car without getting caught by the damn press. I hate the Paparazzi 
 too. The cutscenes are really cool, as if you were watching a movie on THE DEPARTED but its about 
 the mafia or something. One cutscene that blow me away is when the Saints try to defeat 2 of the 
 biggest and toughest gangsters in the Red Gang (forgot the name, its Spanish though) . The music 
 is all right but the rap could have been better. The sound effects are decent but sometimes some 
 are too simplistic.
  
  The tilt is simplistic and easy. From switching your weapons, and making driving easier using the 
 controller. Suing that finger on the right trigger hurts!
  
  Overall, the game is great. The gameplay while copies GTA does better with new features. The graphics 
 are okay but the physics are awesome. The sound is very nice with a disapointing soundtrack but 
 top-notch voice acting makes up for it. The tilt is easy. You should probably give this game a 
 rent, but if you loved and spent hours on the demo, then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledman
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  another game? SR has some fun activities that are not in GTA, and the cops are not as hard to beat 
 in most cases and you can get away with allot more, like running over peds without really getting 
 into trouble, so the gameplay fun meter is way up there for me.
  
  The Game play is great, very easy controls, easy to learn them. The cars are fun, nice explosions 
 and they all have thier own feel to them. The missions are pretty straight forward, go here, kill 
 this guy, destroy this, go back here.
  
  The graphics are not perfect, but they are pretty good. I do have a HD projection TV, so I would 
 imagine it would look better on a HD LCD or HD Plasma TV.
  
  The sounds are awesome! The random quotes from the peds are funny, really funny at times, it never 
 gets old!
  
  I got my copy used at Gamestop for $40 bucks, so yes, it is very much worth it to buy.
  
  I 
 have not tryed the MP yet, but overall, this game will have hours of gaming time, a good bang for 
 the buck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 5:04 am PT
Review:  In the past and in the present day many game developers are trying their up most best to re-create 
 a GTA type of game that isn't too much like it but still has that unbelieable experience any gamer 
 can have and Saints Row has done that!
  
  You start the game off with a character creation sequence where you choose your character's apperance, physique 
 and accersories so first off it grabs you like there's you or your own little guy to do whatever! 
 where as in GTA you would have a pre-made character thus you go and change him and also in Saints 
 Row you can aquire jewerly , clothes , hats , tatoos it is unbeilavably good!
  
  So your in Stillwater corrupted by drug dealers and gang warfare and your guy is in the mist of 
 it , you are then re-cruited by a guy called Julius and Troy who take you to the 3rd Saints crew 
 and from there on you do missions to do with other gangs such as the Vice kings , Los Carnales 
 and the Rollerz 3 seperate storylines and very detailed and very very strong overall.
  
  Minor issues with the game first off that struck me whas the fact your character doesn't talk at 
 all not a sneeze or cough just nodding his head or changing his body posture or giving people the 
 one finger salute really dissapointing that your charcter doesn't talk. Another minor issue would 
 be the fact that the limited amount of vechiles you can have..... HEY! there are some good looking 
 cars..... THAT'S IT CARS!! no motorbikes , planes , boats , bicyles e. t. c. Just Cars!
  
  This game is defienetly the best GTA imitation game on the market and it is only on the Xbox360 
 if you like the GTA series then please get this game where as if you are the finicky type of gamer 
 that want's everything LIKE GTA then wait til GTAIV... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nimmow
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Volition have come out with a sandbox free roaming 3rd person shooter that some will instantly 
 dub a GTA rip off. But unlike those other wanabes that try to take GTA out of the spotlight, Saints 
 Row pretty much hit the nail right on the head with everything that was right about GTA and added 
 online multiplayer which is something completely new to sandbox shooters.
  
  Stilwater is in turmoil. With 4 rival gangs taking over territory for themselves you find yourself 
 in a gang war as a civilian until you were saved by the 3rd street Saints, one of the rival gangs. 
 Julius, the leader, needs your help and together you take back Stilwater one gang territiory at 
 a time.
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same as GTA. Shooting, stealing and completing missions are pretty 
 much what you do in Saints Row but there are differences. For one thing this is a 3rd person shooter 
 so a cursor in the middle of the screen will constantly be there aslong as you have a weapon. And 
 the mission set up isn't as simple as complete one mission and move straight onto the next. You 
 have to gain respect to fill up your respect meter. You do this by completing activities like snatch 
 where you steal hookers from pimps, insurance fraud where you throw yourself infront of cars or 
 hostage where you take passengers hostage. This is how you go on to the next mission.
  
  Driving feels natural in the game just like in GTA. A button is to accelerate, X is to reverse 
 and the L trigger to use the handbrake which is useful for turning corners in a rush. And you can 
 freely move the cursor around your car and shoot anywhere while driving which is definatley an 
 improvement over GTA drive-by's. Driving to objectives is even simpler where the game constantly 
 show you the correct path on your radar to where ever you want to go. You've got a wide range of 
 weapons at your disposal including RPG's. The explosions in this game are wicked where the parts 
 of the car go flying everywhere. The graphics in Saints Row are pretty good but I wouldn't say 
 they were next gen. Sure the ps2 wouldn't even begin to handle it but I feel the 360 can do loads 
 better. Still it is prettier than San Andreas and the vehicles do have a nice shine to them. Character 
 models are pretty good too and the ability to create your own unique character with loads of facial 
 features to choose from makes this game that more enjoyable. The sound is another fine attribute. 
 Most of the music in Saints Row has been produced solely for this game with no liscenced music. 
 Still the music you do get is both deep in variety when it comes to genre and there should be atleast 
 some songs that you like. Whether it is rap or rock or alternative music. Sadly though your character 
 doesn't really talk but there is a bit of GTA style pedestrian humour.
  
  The multiplayer in Saints Row is definatley fun just aslong as you've got the patence to wait before 
 a session starts. Playing as a team can be quite fun but also challenging as the other team will 
 be fighting together. But to be honest there will be one on one shooting action as you'll get the 
 lone wolf type players who like to go it alone. And there are a variety of game modes to play though 
 I haven't played all of them. It is kind of disappointing that you can't simply jump into a match 
 or have that lobby set up like in CoD 3 where it tells you how many players and game type etc.
 
  
  There are things I will complain about in Saints Row. The missions are not as much fun as I was 
 hoping. Waiting for multiplayer matches to start rather hopping straight into the action, next 
 gen graphics that could have been improved upon and the fact that you can't fly planes or helicopters, 
 control boats or ride motor cycles. And there are glitches in the game such as when I'm driving 
 and I suddenly stop and my car is gone and I'm floating in mid air until my car appears again. 
 And I'm not so fussed about the reputation thing either.
  
  Not every sandbox shooter should instantly be called a GTA rip off and be despised because Saints 
 Row is an example of what developers should do for a sandbox shooter. It has a lot of shooting, 
 barely any load times, driving that is simple to do and fun aswell. Pick this game up if you want 
 something to tie you over until GTA 4 arrives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_specialist4
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who says this is a GTA knockoff just never play a video game again because you have no clue 
 wat you are talking about. Thsi game is so much more in depth that GTA its just insane. You can 
 do so much more in Saints Row. The story starts with you witnessing a gang war and getting shot 
 for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. A gang called the Saints help you out but then 
 initiate you to see if you have the balls to join. After you whoop the whole gang you get in and 
 are now part of the Saints. You now must take back lost territory help out drug kingpins and much 
 much more.
  
  Saints Row is much more interactive that GTA. You can go into almost any store and do wat u please. 
 The shooting system is similar to GTA but that is rele the only thing.
  
  And PS3 owners watch out cause the Saints are heading ur way next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Krinkle9210
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Saints Row is nearly exactly like GTA. It steals most of the mechanics 
 that have made GTA great, but what makes it different is that Saints Row fixes most of the problems 
 that have plagued the Grand Theft Auto series for years now. One example of this is that there 
 is no lock-on aiming. The aiming is unlocked and it controls much like a FPS. This makes it so 
 that there is no confusion on who you're shooting unlike in Grand Theft Auto. Another fix is when 
 you fail a mission you are given the choice to play it again immediately. This keeps the pace of 
 the game up and is a really nice touch. Gameplay wise, Saints Row is , as mentioned , a pretty 
 sneaky copycat of Grand Theft Auto but still is awesome. The game really revolves around cars since 
 they are the only thing you'll be driving. You have guns.... and cars and thats it. Many people 
 will get over that, but i think this game could've been much cooler with airplanes, helicopters, 
 boats, and motorcycles. The only explaination I have for their dissapearance is that the developers 
 maybe didn't want to copy GTA too much. At least the guns are fun to shoot and have real kick in 
 them.
  Graphically, Saints Row is really great. The frame rate usually stays pretty reasonable. The only 
 way that the frame rate will really drop is if you just start blowing up tons of cars and people 
 and explosions and objects are flying across the screen. The draw distance is also pretty good 
 and is much better than GTA. Don't get me wrong here, there still is draw in but its not as noticeable 
 as San Andreas ever was. Presentationally this game is really great all of the character models 
 look great in the cutscenes and move very realistically. All the animations are smooth which rounds 
 out the graphics very nicely.
  The sound is kind of a hit in some spots... and a miss in some spots. First i'll give you the hits. 
 The weapons are really great. They all sound very forceful and powerful. Also the voice acting 
 is awesome. Every character in the game has a fitting voice. Even your own main character, who 
 is silent most of the time, talks every once in a while and is pretty funny when he does. The explosions 
 and car sounds are also worth mentioning too. The area where the game misses are the music. The 
 radio tracks are not that great with only a few standouts. The rest is crap. Grand Theft Auto really 
 has Saints Row beaten in this area. Good thing there is custom soundtrack support so that you can 
 listen to whatever you want. Overall the sound isn't what it could've been.
  The main story line in Saints Row is fairly long and will probably take you anywhere from 20-40 
 hours to complete. There are a ton of side missions also. You can also go and play the multiplayer 
 over Xbox Live. It is fun, but it is very slow to find people to play with, and some of the game 
 types just aren't that fun. Saints Row is the closest open world game to ever come close to Grand 
 Theft Auto's crown as king. It is a really fun game even if it does borrow alot from GTA and is 
 worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krow_316
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  i think its good, but an awful ending, and in my concept a little too short, maybe the whole GTA 
 comparison its not quite, cause always GTA is going to be the best, and basically, there&acute; s 
 nothing on saints row that you haven&acute; t done in another games, like stealing, getting stars, 
 the whole shopping thing, the personalized character, it&acute; s not new, but they tried hard, 
 but whats with the ending, i just felt like demoralized, like you work hard, and i mean hard.. just 
 to get... nah, i don&acute; t think that a good video gamer deserves that.
  
  maybe nobody agrees with me, but the thing is that a game that at the end disappoints you, is not 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kadus7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  The better GTA , you get to ake what your person looks like! I really like this game it is really 
 good how you have to get reputation to do a mission and the graphics are cool. it would be better 
 if you could pick what gang you went into though. I like everything from getting new clothes to 
 make your dude look cool to customizing your car (obviously in purple) the riders mansion is definitely 
 the best hideout you can get with the two footballs, one in the chimney and the other in the bed 
 room between the bed and the drawer. an excellent game but the ending is very dodgy, how you die!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauncey-darwin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I didnt get my xbox 360 till last christmas which is means saints row had already been out for 
 awhile, but once i got this game it was the 4th funnest game i had played for 360 (Oblivion, Rainbow 
 six, and dead rising beat it) (i didnt get the game until late january i think) Anyways, i really 
 have alot of fun playing this game both online and offline. The single player game is pretty long 
 if you spend time just running around killing people and stuff. I dont know how long it took me 
 to actually beat the game but i've played the game alot more than just one time through... i have 
 like 5 characters. not all have finished the game though. Anyways enough about me, lets talk more 
 about the game. It's a lot like grand theft auto not quite as good tho. pretty close but not quite. 
 The only thing i didnt really like about this game was how you had to do missions for respect before 
 you could do gang missions.... i suppose it made the game longer tho. so yeah this is a great game 
 that everybody should play unless they're young or dislike a lot of swearing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayze21
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Yet again, another great addition to the Xbox 360. This game is just like the GTA series. Your 
 part of a gang and you have to work your way up. You start out a lowly rookie in the streets of 
 Saints Row and have to fight members of your gang to gain acceptance among your fellow members. 
 Using anything from a pistol to a rocket launcher you then destroy the other gangs and take over 
 more of the City untill you are respected. A great game and another must have for this great console. 
 There is also barely any restriction of where you can go so feel free to drive around if you get 
 bored of doing missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell_Dude
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Look's just like...
  
  Yup, it's a game about gangs in a American city. About them using guns, cars , drugs , hookers 
 and drugs&amp;40'ies. At first you mey think that Saint's Row is just like GTA: San Andreas , but 
 it's not. It's even more like GTA III , only on the 360. With updated graphics, gameplay and with 
 a multiplayer. Yes, the multiplayer is a new thing in open-world games. And this game has did it 
 good.
  
  Welkome to the Stillwater...
  
  The game gives you a lot of things to make you're character. Nose, but, legs, face, is he skiny or 
 fat and so. If you don't leave the defult character then you will never see to identical players 
 (at XBL) . Ofcourse you can make your character look like Chuck Norris or Ali-G , what is interesting 
 , but not that original... When you have created your character you can start the game. You're walking 
 down the street in Saint's Row , when sudenly the three local gangs start to kill each other. These 
 gangs are: Vice Kings (VK's) Los Carnales (LC) and Westside Rollerz (WR) . These three gang have 
 token over the city , and you are going to fight it back , after in the first cutscene you are 
 saved from a VK by Julius. The 3d Street Saint's leader , leater when you're in the gang and been 
 Canonized . In the 1st mission you will meat the leaders of the 3d SS. Then you can go and exploer 
 the city , find shops and activities. The sad thing about the city is this: Only thing that you 
 are geting to move around is cars or your foot. Don't except no planes, bikes or boats. Well getting 
 in them , becouse you're going to see one plane. The shops have lot to offer , hats, pants, underpants 
 (i don't know why) ,drugs and rims. But if you don't like the stuff that you have just bought you 
 can get your money back by robbing the shopkeaper. After he will lead you to the safe you can take 
 the money and get out by the back door. And you can come back at night to get some mor money. Just 
 don't forget to take you're homies with you. To unlock new missions you have to get respect. You 
 can get it in two ways. First: You can go around and kill other gang members. Two: You can do activities. 
 The activities ar probably the most interesting part of the game. There are 8 different activities 
 like: Hitman ,Insurance Fraud
  and Chop Shop. At every gang controled are there are different people that you can help. Like for 
 the Hitman , are 3 people that need some dudes to be killed. You don't only get respect for these 
 activities , but money and different stuff for compleating them. Each one have eight levels. As 
 you can emagine for each compleated activity (for all 3 places) you get 10 achievment points. The 
 multiplayer is something new to open-world games. It is not the strongest part of the game , but 
 is wery fun. There are 6 modes that you can play.
  Gangsta Brawl: Whell there isn't much to say... it's a death match.
  Team Gangsta Brawl: Team 
 death match
  Big Butt Chaines: When you kill a dude , you get chanes and you need to drop them off at a... a... place.
 
  Team Big Butt Chanes: Above
  Blinget Out Ride: You need to upgrade your team car to the 4th level , and go to the Victory area 
 to show it off, you get money to upgrade it by killing other team players or getting and dropping 
 of chanes.
  Protect Tha Pimp: Escort the pimp out of the building to safetay, the other team tries to kill 
 him. The graphics are impresing. The nice looking characters , and the not realy realistic , but 
 fun ragdoll phisics. The explotions are nice , adn people flying in the ear is fun and nice looking. 
 Car damage is one of the strongest parts of the game looking, it makes it a 1 pont higher. The 
 sound effects , and characters voice are very good, but the sounds track could been a lot bether 
 . The classical music station remindes me GTA III , but the rap stations haven't got any popular 
 songs, actuly , no radio station has any. Maybe it's a good thing that the radio in the cars is 
 usualy turned off. At the end , this is a nice looking game, which is fun to play. Story is short 
 but the activities will keep you buisy for a long time. And multiplayer is good to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The crime-infested city of Stillwater may at first glance look like a cheap GTA rip-off, but if 
 you play through the game for a couple of hours you will realize that this game is not just another 
 clone. It obviously draws from other series but its definite, stylistic qualities differentiate 
 it from the heaps of clones. First of the action in the game is really outstanding and is far superior 
 to any previous lock-on system. The graphics are really good in most places with wonderful explosions 
 and character detail. But the real graphical hitch is that the frame rate drops whenever you blow 
 up a lot stuff. Also some of the indoor environments are reused and have plain textures, but there 
 is no loading time between outdoor and indoor environments. The sound effects are good and although 
 there isn't much variety in the radio stations, they are still of high quality. The funniest station 
 of all is 108 WMD Kaboom. This station is hilarious and there is some really convincing talk-show 
 voice acting on this station. The gameplay, like all games of this genre, is always fun and satisfying. 
 There are lots of missions to complete and if you don't feel like doing a mission you can always 
 break into the local liquor store and shoot the owner, break open the safe and steal the contents, 
 everyone loves a hold-up. You should probably buy this game because the 360 doesn't currently have 
 too much to offer in the sandbox category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  Some purists will be aghast, but it's true. I've been playing GTA since the first one (yes, the 
 actual first one, not the first 3D one) and I'm as shocked as you. However, while it makes several 
 improvements, there are also areas where GTA remains top of the list. Because it's such a similar 
 game, it'll be easier just to list what they improved and what wasn't as good.
  
  IMPROVED
  Activities - In GTA, you driver either a taxi, a police car, an ambulance or a fire 
 engine. You have to complete all 12 levels without failing otherwise you've got to start from level 
 1 again. This is just completely stupid - not only could the amount of levels be lower (by the 
 10th level, you clearly deserve the prize) but the activity itself isn't much fun anyway. In Saints 
 Row, every activity is only 8 levels long, and you can go back to the level you were just on if 
 you should die or fail. Also, the activities are more fun anyway - stealing hos from pimps, protecting 
 a drug dealer making his rounds, racing, insurance fraud (throw yourself in front of traffic) and 
 more. Also, Hitman and Chop Shop rounds - 3 different locations with about 10 different targets 
 in each. There's no shortage of stuff to do, and since most of your time playing the game will 
 be spent doing these, it makes for a satisfying experience. Going back to GTA's original activities 
 now is going to feel like a step backwards.
  
  Multiplayer - I have no idea why GTA couldn't manage to have a multiplayer aspect in any of its 
 many games, but presumably it'll feature in GTA4. Hopefully they'll learn from Saints Row. As well 
 as the standard solo &amp; team deathmatch, you have 2 fantastic modes called Protect The Pimp 
 and the even better Blinged Out Ride . When you're playing with equally matched players (which, 
 thanks to the TrueSkill system, is fairly regularly) both of these can be intense, tactical games 
 as well as just running and gunning. Co-op mode is also fun, but unless you've got a friend that 
 you can do it with, it seems like it's rare for people to be playing it.
  
  Customisation - The main character in Saints Row can look and dress however you like, which is 
 a nice touch (although really not entirely necessary, just a very cool feature) . It's more important 
 in multiplayer mode but once it's there it may as well feature in the main game. Walking around 
 as yourself is surely the ultimate dream of gamers everywhere.
  
  Waypoint Finder - if you need to go somewhere, the map will tell you how to get there instead of 
 just pointing in the general direction. It doesn't always work (which I'll mention below) but it 
 saves a bit of time.
  
  Graphics - obviously, though I have no doubt GTA4 will look as good.
  
  
  But while Saints 
 Row gets a lot of things right, it also stumbles in some fairly significant ways.
  
  WORSE
  The Story - how they could screw this up in the face of what a great game they had on 
 their hands just goes to show the genius of Rockstar. The jokes don't work and you'll not really 
 give a damn about any of your gang - one of them you'll actively hate from the first time he says 
 anything to you and he's one of the most regularly reoccurring characters. Saying that, it's only 
 the first few mission that are truly badly scripted, and the rest of it isn't terrible - it's just 
 no Grand Theft Auto. GTA has its tongue firmly in it's cheek at all times, even in the more similar 
 gangster world of San Andreas.
  
  Radio/Humour in the world - most of it is just forced. The right wing talk radio station is pretty 
 funny but who came up with Freckle Bitch's ? The sexual innuendo is dripping out of the adverts 
 without any of the subtlety of GTA's always superb script.
  
  The City - this is a difficult one to call, but I'd say San Andreas just worked better as a city. 
 You'll know San Andreas like the back of your hand if you've played it for a while, but for some 
 reason I never felt like I knew Stilwater even coming up to the end, I still had to rely on the 
 waypoint markers. Stilwater looks better, sure, and the city on the horizon all lit up is very 
 impressive, but it's not quite got that thing .
  
  Waypoint Finder - The above may be the fault of the waypoint finder. Because it's always there, 
 you never NEED to know the city, which is a shame. Also, the computer seems to follow it too, but 
 it doesn't consider not following the direction you're already travelling and telling you to go 
 backwards! The computer drivers will actually go all the way across a bridge and then turn round 
 instead of just cutting over the middle of the road into the other lane. GTA's AI could work that 
 out so it's inexcusable that you'll sometimes lose missions because the computer can't work out 
 that it's wasting your time.
  
  
  I got to 100% completion in the single player game in 49 hours, 8 minutes and 21 seconds. That's 
 a LOT of gaming for your money, and that's not even taking into account the multiplayer aspect, 
 of which I've played several hours also. Despite it's flaws, I can't recommend Saints Row highly 
 enough, especially now that the price has dropped. Hopefully GTA4 will have learnt from this game 
 and implemented some of it's improvements - if it hasn't, it may find itself second best in the 
 genre it invented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  You choose what you are - asian, black, white, etc. You will encounter a epic story and it will 
 just suck you in. Becoming the best gangster in all of Stilwater will be easy with the fun and 
 easy to use shooting engine. No more auto aiming to hold your hand like a little baby, some people 
 will love it and some will hate it at first but in the end you get used to to it. My personal favorite 
 feature is that you can add a car to your garage and keep it even if it explodes! of course you'll 
 have to pay for repairs but it's just fun to ride in your own tricked-out-wheels. Of course every 
 game has it's bad, and Saint's Row just breaks even. Even though the area and storyline may be 
 small the amount of things that you can do makes up for it, but it still would've been nice to 
 have more area to cover and even nicer to put vehicles like planes and boats for you to ride in. 
 And why coulden't they take after Grand Theft Auto and let you buy your own house? another thing 
 is that basically your forced to act like some modern thug. I would like to have a classic mobster 
 kind of appeal, but it's kinda hard to pull that off when your character is standing there with 
 his head turned a whole 30 degrees and wears only baggy pants. But the game gives you alot to do, 
 activities that range from racing to demolition derby to snatching prostitutes and bringing them 
 to their new pimps. Personally I recommend this game to anyone who wants to play a solid game, 
 but not for hours straight. This game is addicting and attractive to most groups of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  This game is almost exactly like GTA. similar storyline. do whatever you want. blow **** up etc.. 
 The story goes that there are four gangs in the streets of Stillwater. Saints, Los Carnales, Rollerz, 
 and Vice kings. Each having there leaders and unique storyline. You join the Saints and you try 
 to take back all the land from the other gangs. by doing so you will have to do missions. more 
 missions more land then after you beat the entire mission you wipe out that gang. This game has 
 sequel written all over it but lets get back to the game.... This game lets you do almost everything 
 GTA can do and i believe GTA is a good game! this game will help you get though until the next 
 GTA comes out.
  
  Gameplay: Fun game play when you jack cars and escort hookers lol
  Graphics: very good much better then Grand thief Auto but its a 9 because sometimes the game glitches
 
  Sound: The best part of the game. you can use your music already on XBOX 360 or you can buy music 
 in stores. As well as one of the best voice acting games ever. with some well known actors.
  Value: you get hours of blowing up cars for your money
  Overall: Its one of those games you play 
 for a long time then don't play it then pick it up again. so if you like GTA get this it will help 
 you get though untill the next GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdog988
Rating: 4.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  this game is very fun but after so much killing and so many cheats it sucks its very similer to 
 gta even the sucking part overall it does have good online play but mabey nothing more than that 
 but my friend chris loves this game he plays it all day so all i have to do is invite him over 
 and let him play on my profile insted so when i play online i have like 10000 bucks but i must 
 recomend that if you want the game you should atleast rent it first it is not a must buy kind of 
 thing .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCircleSleeps
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Saints Row holds a mildly interesting, but definitely not deep, story, with a weapon system slightly 
 better than GTA and a driving system on par with GTA. The map is decently sized, but no where near 
 extremely large. Being on XBox 360 and PS3, the graphics let you do things while free roaming that 
 you couldn't do in GTA, and it makes free roaming more fun. The cop system is much more lineant 
 than GTA, with the same system being used 4 more times over with each individual game, but running 
 from the cops is more fun in Saints Row than it ever was in GTA. I recommend any sandbox game fan 
 or any GTA fan to atleast rent this little gem. It never gets very difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanOpuffs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row, one of the greatest games i have ever played. People say its a rip off of GTA, but its 
 not!!. Ist of all it 10x better gameplay, graphics, and everything else better than GTA. I mean 
 cmon, in GTA when you run over someone they lay flat as a pancake 10 feet in the air. I mean if 
 they thought of that earlier, GTA still wouldnt be half as good as Saints Row.
  
  I mean in Saints Row you can do alot of things like Hitman, Insurance fraud, and you could rob store 
 and accutually create your guy how you want, short, skinny, fat, chubby whatever you want. But 
 on the other hand in GTA you cant do those things. So inconclusion, Saints Row is better than GTA 
 and a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonzreaper
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Specs first lol.
  Great gameplay, improve the range of weapons and had combat, improve the range of modes ( i know 
 that a GTA style only has single and live but what about split screen gang battles.) Also Great 
 .. well Everything thats in GTA But BETTTER graphics.
  
  Well Firstly you try to buy a prostitute then The los Carnales, The westside rollerz and the Vice 
 kings start battleing and your in the middle of it. The leader of the saints ( Julius saves you 
 and offers you to join.) Its great cause you can gather some homies to fight eside you and do drive 
 bys .. Im not the GTA type but this one is great for the non gta type. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twopic58
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game i thought i would have a game as good as gta. But when i got into it and 
 i got a little further i realized that this game is nothing like gta. The game is way shorter than 
 gta. I think the story could have been stronger. I was disappointed about the character creation. 
 There should have been more attire. But this game was much better than i expected. I really enjoyed 
 going on random killing sprees and going around the whole map robbing all da stores. Hopefully 
 there will be a sequel and it will be much more improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renostarr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Ever since GTAIII I have been an avid GTA and Rockstar fan. I own em all, GTA3, San Andreas, Vice 
 City, liberty City Stories, man even Bully. Not one has escaped the ravenous craving for terrible 
 heartless violence, lawless cruelty, and mind numbingly senseless maliciousness that screams from 
 inside me. I though it got no better than San Andreas, blood, death, gore, it........ 
 
  Until now.
  
  I have seen some things now, I have lived another version of pixelated, CG created, digitally authenticated 
 life. And i must say, the satisfaction received from that life GREATLY exceed that of GTA. Now 
 let's be fair, GTA is the fore father of all free based non linear games. That much is true, but 
 just because it's the originator does not mean it's the best. I never thought I;'d see the day 
 when I'd take 'GTA rendition' over the actual game. But I'm an honest person, and if it's better, 
 it's better. And Saints Row is Better. The games story line is engaging, and keeps your attention 
 well. The soundtrack is highly varied and all inclusive. The graphics are top notch, the dialog 
 is hilarious and appropriate, there really is nothing that I can say the game was lacking. It was 
 a blast, start to finish. From the customizable options for the clothes, vehicles, even character 
 design; to the wide arsenal of weaponry, various mini games, and even the official objectives. 
 This game really raised the bar. GTA has been a powerhouse in the industry, holding the title for 
 most popular, constantly pushing the 'Moral Envelope' , and flat out shock value. There have been 
 plenty that have tried to dethrone it but all have failed miserably. From the really bad ones like 
 State Of Emergency, to the good ones Like Godfather, no game has had enough punch to go toe to 
 toe with GTA. Saints Row proved that not only was it possible to square up with em, but beat em 
 too. For my money it's Saints Row, GTA's really gonna have to step it up now. And that's saying 
 a lot coming me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noventus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Obviously many people think GTA Clone when they see Saints Row and to be honest thats not an unfair 
 statement, but when given a chance the game proves to be a solid and enjoyable experience in its 
 own right. Many of the things you enjoyed about the GTA series are in here but it's obvious that 
 the guys at Violition have sat down and thought about how they could improve upon the successful 
 GTA formula of sandbox mayhem. Saints Row boasts a wide range of side missions ranging from protecting 
 drug dealers to committing insurance fraud, however one might question if these are truly side 
 missions as you are required to complete at least a portion of these to gain enough respect in 
 order to progress through the games main story of defeating the 3 gangs that control the city of 
 Stillwater. Small additions such as MP3 players, an improved store hold-up system, improved garage 
 system, not losing all your weapons when you die and many other small touches help the game to 
 set itself apart from games in the same genre and prevents it from becoming an exact clone of previous 
 games. The story is pretty basic in itself but interesting characters, decent voice acting and 
 sleek graphics help to create a cinematic experience as the story progresses which has a noticeably 
 different feel to the comical, unrealistic plotlines of GTA, all in all Saints Row is an entertaining 
 experience with strong gameplay, decent visuals and good replay value and hard not to recommend 
 to any self-respecting 360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdaShofLiMe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  We already know what this game brings, some more GTA style of play to the table with new twists. 
 We've seen it before, it's been done before and everything. However, this time around, this game 
 offers things that GTA has failed to give over the past few years. ONLINE PLAY!!! And boy is it 
 fun. I've only played online on my friends account and it is fun as a mother. Lol.
  
  Gameplay- Of course it takes from the GTA style of gameplay, but as far as gunplay goes, it has 
 a system of it's own. Instead of actually aiming at an opponent (by which your cursor is dead set 
 on him and you have to hold a button to keep it on him) this game gives you fulll 360 motion to 
 play with. And is especially fun during car chases, we all know it's been hard trying to blind 
 fire in ANY GTA game. The multiplayer is by far it's biggest asset, game's get a little laggy as 
 far as how you can be killed with a pistol from almost a mile away, but other than that it has 
 very good gameplay. Single player and Multiplayer.
  
  Graphics- Now, i would talk about how good the graphics are, but once you get into multiplayer 
 it is sort of a different story. Single player graphics are astounding, a lot of detail go into 
 the surroundings, as far as what you can blow up and what not. You cant blow up buildings, of course 
 not, but the explosions on cars and other explosive objects &gt; any GTA game, and that's a FACT. 
 Never have i seen a more beautiful combustion happen in a video game before. Once you get to multiplayer 
 that's when it loses it's shine, depending on what type of server you are on, the graphics can 
 be hella choppy, and the animations slows down somewhat. Although i do enjoy laggy ragdoll physics, 
 lol.
  
  Audio- I must say, the audio presentation is ALMOST better than GTA's. I love the voice acting 
 in this game, and depending on your activity in the game, the announcer on certain radios will 
 announce oh hey i see the Saints are coming back or something of that nature. The music is really 
 cool, i am a fan of Hip-Hop and hearing Wu-Tang Clan is by far the most enjoyable ride. Ridin' 
 in a 6'4 wit WTC playing, nothing better. Explosions sound beautiful, gun fire sounds completely 
 real, and once again i must comment on the voice acting, very, very, very well done.
  
  Value- The replay value as far as single player is not so much good, it's only good if you are 
 anchievement whore who likes to get 1000 gamerpoints in less than a day, lol. However, other than 
 the achievements element, the single player is virtually useless after being completed.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- This game is overall a very good attempt to cash in GTA, but in a way where the 
 developers actually TRIED to set everything apart from the actual GTA series. It tries and accomplishes 
 it's goal very well. I recommend this game to anyone who loves GTA and doesnt mind knock-offs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 3:30 pm PT
Review:  As G. T. A fans wait for its journey to the next gen to complete; we have Saints Row which gives 
 G. T. A. a run for its money. Saints row starts out with a Character that you create [YES!! about 
 time!] and put out into the streets of Stilwater; a city under the seige of 4 rival gangs struggling 
 for turf. after a brief confrountation, you are recuited into the 3rd streets saints and you fight 
 for turf has begun.
  
  Gameplay is normal GTA freeroaming goodness... with a twist! In-between missions you must complete 
 tasks that build up your Rep like: Highjacking, Snatching Hos from their pimps, and many others. 
 You can create your own charicter although he doesn't have a voice; the wide range of customization 
 is a welcome relief from most GTA knockoffs.
  
  Graphics are typical next-gen and with a wide range of cars to take and a large city to explore 
 with its own feel is feel and its nice to have people of all races on the street cause having the 
 same 3 character models on the road kinda sucks.
  
  Voice acting is well done and the wide range of famous actors is nice. The soundtrack also has 
 its ups and downs. Some music is good and others could be better. Here's a tip: Play with headphones.
 
  
  Most likely you already bought this game cause if you don't have it than you must not have a 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rossie123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  ok, so this is like the new high-def gta! great, i love it! and im definatly glad i bought it and 
 all that sh*t. But really this isnt like gta, it kinda makes its own form of game type witch is 
 where youll play it for an hour or two, get bored and then 5 hours later youll have an urge to 
 play it again. thats the gameplay and its a serious reveiw. all the rest i love! the graphics is 
 great, youll see a slight realistic shine on the car, when you threaten people, they actually fall 
 over of frightness and everything and unlike gta, when you have a masssive riot, it doesnt go all 
 slow, it just looks real and is totally fun. for the sound of this game, ill give a 9 becuase of 
 cool it is, you can choose from rock to rap and you can buy tracks from the shop! this game is 
 very valuable, its a legend and people will be talking about it in schools especially. this game 
 is great, a must buy and theres so much more than what ive said here so if you have a 360, buy 
 this now!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murat8
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is so fun the graphics are great when its day time in the game but when its dark 
 it look average. The explosions are very pretty and you will see them very often. In Saints Row 
 when you steel a car and go to a garage you can trick out your car and give it nos, paint it, etc. 
 The story is kinda lame but the characters in the game are interesting. To play the story or take 
 over someones turf you need to get respect by during certain things like steel cars for a chop 
 shop or be a hitman its very fun. The bad thing about this game is you cant ride on motorcycles, 
 bots, or helicopters. If you liked using cheats in GTA you will love it in this game because all 
 the cheats u use get saved and and you just go to your cell phone and press on the cheat you want 
 to activate and its as simple as that. If you dont have this game yet you should buy/rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCap99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game may seem familiar to GTA fans. I agree being a fan of the GTA series for a long time. 
 But this comes close to being as good. With great sound effects ( at times i felt the explosions) 
 and funny and memorable characters this game is worth a buy.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in this game are good. I say good and not great because of other games that 
 have set a new standard (Oblivion, Gears of War) but they still do the job. There are moments where 
 you will look and see beautiful paint jobs on a car or the detail of a character.
  
  Game play: THe gameplay in this game is original. The idea to have to get enough respect to start 
 a new mission is cool. But after a while that starts to wear off and you just want to play the 
 game. But still the little side missions are fun none the less. Along with that i found pride in 
 steraling and tuning up cars. Along with that the missions are cool with some good gun fights. 
 At points i felt truly involved. If one thing sets it aside from GTA it is the character creation. 
 It is very sensitive, even letting you change the jaw and chin size along with many, many other 
 things.
  
  Sound: Amazing. If all games had this great of sound we would be deaf. These sound affects truly 
 make you feel involved, especially when you blow a car up.
  
  All in all this game is worth adding to the collection. Once again for all you GTA fans this will 
 remind you but will hold you off until GTA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzzxx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Rockstar released a revolutionary game called Grand Theft Auto 3 back in 2001, there 
 have been countless imitations. Almost all of these imitating games have failed to even come 
 close to the quality of the Grand Theft Auto series. Saints Row manages to succeed in ways where 
 countless other games have failed. While it may not be as good as the Grand Theft Auto games, Saints 
 Row sure does come close. And that is no easy feat. Many other games have failed to be anything 
 more than cheap rip-offs and clones, usually being bad games. Even though its hard to see (at 
 first) what makes Saints Row stand out, it does so in its own special way thanks to overall solid 
 game design. Saints Row is very similar to Grand Theft Auto. The story takes place in the fictional 
 city of Stilwater. In the beginning, you are asked to create your own character from a surprisingly 
 big list of options. If you could imagine a character, Im sure you would be able to create him 
 here. The story opens with you taking a stroll down the street when out of nowhere, a shootout 
 starts between 4 different gangs. You are hurt in the shootout, but a guy named Julius (Voiced 
 by Keith David) , who happens to be the leader of one of the gangs, named the 3rd Street Saints. 
 Despite what another character thinks, he asks you to join the Saints. The story basically goes 
 like this: The 3rd Street Saints are 1 of 4 gangs in Stilwater, and they are all fighting for control 
 of the city. Each opposing gang has their own storyline for you to play through, in whichever order 
 you choose. Even though the story might seem full of clich&eacute; s and seem totally fake sometimes, 
 somewhere along the way it picks up and gets really good. Its not the best, but it definitely 
 gets the job done. Before you can tackle the cinematic story missions, you have to earn respect. 
 You can earn respect in a variety of ways, via activities (Side missions) and finding hidden collectibles 
 scattered throughout Stilwater. There are a variety of different activities, like Hitman missions, 
 Escort missions, Mayhem (where you cause as much damage as possible) , and even the crazy stunt 
 dummy-like Insurance Fraud. There are many different activities, and they keep the game fresh. 
 Perhaps the only problem with the story missions would be the mission structure. Its quite repetitive, 
 and you will find yourself accomplishing similar tasks over and over. Also, the story mode is pretty 
 short for this kind of game, clocking in at about 20 hours.
  
  The basic gameplay in Saints Row is a lot like every other game of this type. You have guns, and 
 you need to shoot people. Lots of people. You have a variety of weapons to dispose of your foes 
 with, from pistols to shotguns, even rocket launchers. Like many other third person shooters, Saints 
 Row uses a dual-analog stick to handle aiming, and it works just fine. You can also drive cars, 
 which there are a great big number of. The driving controls work fine, even though driving and 
 shooting at the same time can really be a pain. The gameplay in Saints Row is solid and refined, 
 making for a very enjoyable game.
  
  If you are more of a multiplayer kind of person, there is online multiplayer for up to 12 people 
 on Xbox Live. Individual and team based modes are available for your multiplayer fix. There is 
 a variety of game modes, but most of them arent especially fun. You have your basic deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, big ass chains, blinged out ride, and a few others. Big ass chains is your run 
 of the mill capture the flag, using chains in the place of the flags. Blinged out ride is an original 
 mode, and definitely the most fun. It is like big ass chains, in that you have to collect the chains 
 and bring them back to a certain point on the map. After bringing a certain amount of chains back, 
 you have to upgrade your car via chop shops, while making sure your car doesnt take too much damage. 
 Its the most original and fun game mode in the game. Online play was generally smooth, but it 
 can get quite laggy sometimes. The online play is nothing special, but it can be fun.
  
  The graphics in Saints Row definitely deserve to be called next-gen. The character models look 
 great, and very detailed. The environment looks great, and the world is always alive with civilians 
 walking around, people driving, and cops trying to kill you. One of the biggest things that stands 
 out about Saints Rows graphics are the fantastic explosions. Shoot a rocket launcher, and just 
 watch the explosion. They look great, and are definitely some of the best out there. The characters 
 animate well and move realistically, making Saints Row an overall great looking game.
  
  The sound in Saints Row is really good. The voice-overs are well done, and the sound effects are 
 solid. The games soundtrack has a great variety, with everything from rock to rap. The voice-overs 
 are definitely the best part about the sound, and are above par.
  
  Where countless other games have failed, Saints Row has managed to succeed. That alone is enough 
 to make it special. Saints Row is a great game, despite comparisons to Grand Theft Auto. Saints 
 Row is one of the biggest surprises in years, and should not be missed by anyone, including those 
 passing it off as just another GTA clone.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilbakedpotato
Rating: 5.3
Date: Feb 28, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was pretty fun at the beginning, killing people with some pretty solid controls, but 
 when it got to the mission part, it was disgusting. The missions were all the same. Go to this 
 place, and kill someone or protect someone. The missions are after all what makes 75% of the game. 
 This was what pretty much made me pretty angry. The game also had some pretty cruddy visuals for 
 being a next-gen game. Volition should have put more mission variety like GTA. Although, GTA could 
 learn and input the fantastic Mapping system into their next would be bestseller (GTA 4) , but stick 
 with Rockstar instead of getting this mediocre game.
  
  I tried it out, played it for about two days, didn't like it, and traded it for Gears of War. So, 
 na, I don't recommend this game. I encourage you to take my advice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: egomez3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row was surprisingly good. Going in I had little expectations because it can easily come 
 off as a Grand Theft Auto imitation. But the game has a little more to it and, for me, was a little 
 more enjoyable than Grand Theft Auto. All the missions and stuff and how they tie into the story 
 really made it fun. The activities also added to it also. The graphics I guess u can say could 
 be a little better but they were truly better than I expected and no disappointment from me in 
 that department. The voices of the characters really sounded true and didn't sound fake at all 
 like some other games can. Overall I really enjoyed playing the game and it was far better than 
 I expected. Get this game... you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  saints row has great graphics and great gameplay as well as great audio and a lot of good strongholds, 
 activitys and missions that are really good and fun and well done. a great online-component is 
 what u want from a great gta-clone and yes u have it. saints row has a couple game-modes that u 
 can play online and those game-modes are: blinged out ride, protect da pimp, gangbrawl, team gangbrawl 
 and maybe more im not 100% sure. and the there is a pretty good character customazation in the 
 beginning of the game when u starting new game then u can create a character and there is a lot 
 of stuff that u can customize on your character. u can also customize your character with clothes, 
 diamonds, chains and stuff like that.
  i really like that! but u can not only customize your character u can also buy a nice ride and 
 customize it or pimp it u name it. and u can also pimp a hi-jacked car, if u want, because it cost 
 a ton to buy a nice ride. u can pimp your car with hydraulic, nitrous, wheels, hoods, windows and 
 all kinds of stuff. the bad is that u cant drive flying vehicles or any motorcycles or cycles. 
 and u must earn respect by doing activitys for example to play missions and that is just streanous 
 but sometimes even fun. and there is a lot of bugs that ive seen in saints row since ive playing 
 it so it would be nice to see a big patch to fix all of that bugs and also an upgrade kinda downloadable 
 content to saints row.
  but overall saints row is a great or matter fact the best gta-clone so far and there is so many 
 things to do and see in saints row and on top of that u got a great online-component. and if u 
 own a xbox 360 and like gta-style games then u should without a doubt go get this NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  (Review is for the SP story only)
  
  I was very skeptical about getting Saint's Row for one reason: the past GTA knockoffs were either 
 bad or just lacking key elements of the proven formula that R* has set the standard for. But I 
 recently got it, and I must say that this is the BEST GTA inspired game yet, period! After many 
 companies tried and failed, THQ and Violation took notes from R* and other companies and delivered 
 with flying colors (no pun intended)
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great, but not perfect. The textures on the characters, gunfire, and 
 explosions, to name a few, look amazing. Never before have I seen explosions, fire and smoke look 
 so real. Even the cars are modeled down to the finest detail ( if you look closely you can even 
 see the speedometer gauge functioning) . Sound: This compliments the graphics in every way. With 
 every gun fired, cars speeding up, and characters speaking, you get great sound quality. THQ must 
 have spent a long time working with this because everything is as supposed to be. Michael Clark 
 Duncan, Keith David, and David Carridine lend their voices to help move the story along. Another 
 neat feature is that you can be driving or walking when you hear the radio of another vehicle interfere 
 with yours. Its great stuff.
  
  Gameplay: Very good. THQ decided to do something new with shooting, and that is to give you a free-looking 
 reticle. Think of a fps like feel when playing this, the left analog stick moves you while the 
 right looks around. It is 100% better than the lock on reticule found in GTA! There is also many 
 elements makes you wonder why no one else thought of. Things like taking a hostage in a car, jumping 
 in front of vehicles for $$, purchasing your own vehicle and so on. SR also takes things a step 
 further than San Andreas by means of character creation/editing, meaning YOU CREATE/EDIT EVERYTHING 
 ABOUT YOUR CHARACTER!!! ( your hair, eyes, nose, ears, fatness and muscle are all fair game in 
 SR)
  
  With these things being said, I do have a few complaints. The road cars and pedestrians will just 
 disappear randomly. While in a vehicle, the sound from your engine and radio can just stop for 
 a few seconds, then start back up. Objects will get stuck in your vehicle and character. But these 
 things don't happen often. In about the 20+ hrs that I've been playing SR, these things happened 
 maybe twice a piece. As you can see, not too many times, but they are there. All in all, SR will 
 give you enjoyment if you like the sandbox feel of games or if you love action games in general. 
 But it does have good amount of violence, swearing, sexual content, and topless girls ( like SA, 
 they have stars around their you know whats) In my opinion, I think this is better than GTA, but 
 it should be a time consuming game, and worthy of your attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lba_ste
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 27, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
 brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant brilliant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Markpwns12
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome... truthfully better then SA. Not only in the graphics, But the gameplay is amazing! 
 this game lasts alot longer then SA. (although SA was a great game) custmization is amazing you can 
 make your guy look so unique.
  The xbl mode is awesome to join a gang ,gang matches 6 game modes online 12 maps. Not including 
 co op!
  there are so problems though... loads of glicthes... short story but it dosnt bother me!
  since 
 i need more words im gona tell you the online modes
  Protect the pimp, gansgter brawl, team gangster brawl, Blinged out ride, team big ass chins, big ass 
 chains.
  Overall this game is awesome if you like SA then get this game! its deffinatley on my top 5 games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: w0rmy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I've seen a lot of people compare Saints Row to Grand Theft Auto. I can't speak to that point since 
 I've never played any of the GTA series. With that said, rip-off or not, Saints Row is one of the 
 best console games to hit the store shelves in the last 12 months!
  
  There's so much to do and see in this game I won't even attempt to explain it all. The game takes 
 place in Stillwater - a fictional city with a serious gang problem. You begin the game by being 
 recruited by the 3rd Street Saints gang after a particularly laughable opening sequence. Sadly, 
 the opening isn't intentionally funny. It's just that the writing is so bad you can't help but 
 wonder if this game is going to be worth even 5 minutes of fun. Fortunately, the writing gets better. 
 A lot better. The story turns out to be surprisingly well crafted and interesting.
  
  The game is full of mini-games that you have to play to earn respect. When you have enough, you 
 can play a mission or a stronghold. Usually, winning a mission will gain your gang some territory, 
 a few bucks and the occasional unlock-able item. (RPG = gg)
  
  I also must mention the sense of humor this game has. You'll see and hear things from unexpected 
 sources that will leave you rolling. I highly recommend that while you're in one of the cars in 
 the game, you listen to WMD, the talk station. The show they have on is absolutely hilarious! (Since 
 I've been in radio for 20 years I'm pretty picky about radio shows)
  
  Saints Row is a must have for anyone who loves snappy, action packed game play with a big dose 
 of humor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monco59
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto. What gamer doesnt know this franchise? Sure, it divides opinions sharply, some 
 saying it is the second coming of JC and others declaring it to be the Devil incarnate. No matter 
 how you feel though, there is no denying the franchise has had a huge impact on the gaming world. 
 One such impact was the tidal wave of GTA-clones rushing to market. So what does Saints Row have 
 that separates it from the other wannabes? Well, for starters its actually good. Not only that, 
 SR bests GTA in some key aspects.
  
  If youve played any of the previous GTA-games, youll feel right at home in Saints Row. You get 
 to create a character that is to your liking, but sadly there is no choice to go female in this 
 regard. After youve gotten through the Create-A-Homie -phase, a cinematic eases you into the 
 game and its story. Stillwater is like any major city in America, riddled by crime and gangs. 
 As the smallest and weakest of the four gangs, the Saints invariably find themselves stepped on. 
 This is where you come in. The player is given carte blanche on which gang to take on first, which 
 is a nice touch. Destroying each group means performing a variety of missions, ranging from simple 
 assassinations and races to more elaborate tasks, such as kidnapping a politicians campaign bus 
 and leaving it at the train tracks to be turned into a fiery ball of death.
  
  The game employs a love it or hate it Respect system, which means you need to garner a certain 
 amount of respect before more missions open up to you. So how do you get more respect? By doing 
 side missions of course! Side missions range from standard ones like protecting a drug dealer as 
 he makes his rounds (whaddya know, a drug dealer who makes house calls? Now thats convenient!) , 
 to more interesting ones such as Insurance Fraud. Insurance Fraud tasks you with throwing your 
 body in front of speeding traffic and other hazards and going limp by pressing a button, to maximize 
 your injuries. The game is great fun, thanks to the awesome Havok physics engine. As a nice touch, 
 wearing gang colors gives you a small boost whenever you acquire more Respect.
  
  Perhaps the single biggest improvement Saints Row has over GTA is the free aim system. Gone are 
 the days of cumbersome targeting reticules and fiddling with a nonsensical lock-on system that 
 is more helpful in getting you killed, than actually getting your enemies killed. The system in 
 SR is so perfect, it makes you wonder why Rockstar never had the brains to implement it in the 
 first place. Targeting is precise and smooth, making it just as easy to blow someones head off 
 as it is to shoot the tires of a speeding 18-wheeler. And thats easy!
  
  Also of note is the multiplayer, which is a first in the genre. While not as revolutionary as expected, 
 it is still a nice addition. The game throws up to 12 players into the mix, using 4 different modes. 
 Big Ass Chains has you killing your enemies and collecting the chains they drop, only to have you 
 drop them off at a set point. Protect Tha Pimp is a standard escort mode, where a team tries to 
 get its pimp to safety. The pimp himself is unarmed, but his mighty pimp slap packs more punch 
 than an AK-47. Also included is the obvious deathmatch/team deathmatch mode and a mode which tasks 
 you with upgrading and protecting your gangs car. The multiplayer was quite laggy after release, 
 but now a patch has taken care of that inconvenience.
  
  Keeping in mind that Saints Row is an open world game, and not a small one at that, the graphics 
 are excellent. Sure, imperfections like tearing and pretty frequent frame rate hitches mar the 
 experience, but this is still a pretty game. The game takes advantage of some nice mapping techniques, 
 giving the game a nice sheen. Draw distance is only a problem on highways and at high speeds. Massive 
 skyscrapers pop up out of nowhere, as do incoming traffic, pedestrians and other smaller objects. 
 It can be quite jarring, but it never really bothered me too much. The best part about the game 
 is the unbelievable physics system, courtesy of Havok 4.0. Never before has running people over 
 with a car been this much fun. Arms and legs flail around wildly as hapless people are tossed into 
 the air, only to come tumbling down and smash the pavement. Even every day objects like trash cans 
 and traffic cones react realistically, and shooting a car with an RPG results in a brilliant explosion 
 of fire, smoke and debris flying everywhere. Beautiful!
  
  The audio in Saints Row is a mixed bag. On one hand you have the awesome weapon sounds, which pack 
 a punch and sound menacing. On the other though, you have some monotonous sound effects, annoying 
 voice acting and awful music. The game often tries too hard with its ham fisted humor, making 
 it hit-or-miss. And more often than not, its miss. The music is also a letdown. Clearly the game 
 has a gangsta feel to it, but rap music is so over represented in the game that pretty soon youll 
 want to turn of the music entirely. Sure, the game has a few other stations, but most of the songs 
 are forgettable, or in the worst case, truly horrible.
  
  So is Saints Row worth your hard earned dough? If you are a fan of open world games, absolutely. 
 The game borrows from GTA heavily, but its good enough that most people wont mind. Add to that 
 the fact that Saints Row actually improves on many things that GTA did wrong, and you have a solid 
 and surprisingly good GTA-clone on your hands. Besides, it has multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donnyp
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 26, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game with high expectations. The driving was not to good which was odd because 
 this kind of game should have excellent driving physics. Now GTA: San Andres was fun and good because 
 they poked fun at the gangster mentality and used subtle jokes you could have a good laugh at. 
 This game all i gathered was that your a troubled person who just wanted to fit in. After being 
 shot. This game added a few new things but like a sequel not much to care about. I know its not 
 a sequel but still the game is just trying to be the next installment of the Grand Theft Auto Series. 
 There are some fun things about this game though such as ramming into cars making people go through 
 there windshield. Taking hostages in your car as well as cracking safes is something new but not 
 special enough to throw a happy joy-joy party over. In the end this is just another grand theft 
 auto game trying to push the Gangster envelope. A rent to own on a toss up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  In Saints Row, your a new member to a gang called the 3rd Street Saints. Their neighborhood, the 
 Saints Row, is controlled by other gangs like the Westside Rollerz, the Vice Kings and the Carnales. 
 A guy named Julius is recruiting people to join the 3rd Street Saints and thats where you come 
 in. You join the Saints and help take back the row. After that Julius wants to control the city 
 so you help him with that too. Saints Row is very fun. The graphics aren't terrific but they aren't 
 bad. There are alot of cars in Stilwater (this is where the game takes place) just waiting to be 
 pimped out. Also when you take over territories owned by other gangs, they fight back for it which 
 is a nice touch. Saints Row is very awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MercyHigh
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is really great. It's lot's of fun. Sure it's just like GTA but whatever it's better. 
 The story is pretty cool. Customizing your charecter is a huge feature to me. Why? Why not. You 
 can make someone that looks like u or do what i did and make Fat Albert. The story is intresting. 
 It is in my opinion better then GTA. Mainly because you just shoot people in gta. In this game 
 you shoot people and have fun. Theres online as well . It has some fun modes. That will last you 
 5 hours . All in all this game is lots of fun and if u like gta even a tiny bit you will love this 
 game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgplaya89
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  GTA, watch your back! Saints Row is the newest in the almost too-long line of GTA killers/clones 
 (Driver, True Crime, The Simpsons Hit and Run, etc.) . but theres a twist to this one; It might 
 actually be *better* than the series it copied off of.
  
  Story: You start out as a random nobody in the city of Stillwater, but quickly get caught in the 
 middle of the citys vicious gang warfare. Julius and Troy of the 3rd Street Saints save you, and 
 offer you a spot in their crew. After an initiation, you begin your rise to the top, and the takeover 
 of the city, by knocking off the other 3 gangs: the Vice Kings, The Los Carnales, and the Westside 
 Rollerz.
  
  The story feels more involving than GTA, since you create your own character, and youre actually 
 apart of a group, instead of being a one-man army. The supporting characters are also intriguing 
 in their own rights. The story isnt too deep, but they never really are in these kinds of games
 
  
  Story: 8/10
  
  Graphics: This is one area that SR, and other GTA clones nail, that GTA itself never could come 
 close to. Its quite a joy to take a cruise through the mean streets of Stillwater. You actually 
 see different types of people and cars, in different areas, instead of the usual 10 pedestrian 
 models in other games. The character models actually look like real people, instead of GTAs more 
 unrealistic look. The Explosions look pretty nice, too
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Gameplay: This is where things get good. As in many sandbox games, there are tons of things to 
 do in Saints Row. Unlike other sandbox games, however, the side missions arent really optional 
 this time. In order to get missions for the main story, you must participate in such activities 
 as Drug Trafficking, taking hostages, Escorts, saving prostitutes from abusive pimps, Street Racing, 
 Mayhem, and even Insurance Fraud, to increase your street cred. The controls are nearly perfect, 
 and the gunplay is actually *fun* thanks to third person shooter controls. You can even shoot in 
 all directions while driving, which is a nice plus. The driving is surprisingly well done too. 
 If you like your ride enough, you can even trick it out to your liking, for a price.
  
  The city of Stillwater may be way smaller than San Andreas, but there is a lot more going on in 
 those confines.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Online: The online gameplay is almost a separate game from single player. You can take on other 
 people from around the world individually, or on teams. There are quite a few modes, from the familiar 
 (Gangsta Brawl/Deathmatch) to the original (Big Ass chains, Protect Tha Pimp, Blinged out ride) , 
 and you can even join and form your own gangs. Overall, Saints Row multiplayer is a pretty good 
 time, especially with friends. Online: 8/10 Overall: at first I was skeptical that SR would be 
 a cheap stab at GTAs crown, but In the end I ended up liking it better than that king itself.
 
  
  Overall: 8.5/10. I recommend this to any GTA fan, or open world games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGTiago
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer, and is one of the best xbox 360 games out yet. Character creation 
 is great, customization of the character can go further with clothes, sunglasses and jewellery. 
 I like to change my characters clothes once and a while, which adds to the immersion of this game. 
 The things that really shine in this game are as follows.
  
  1. A large map that is finely detailed and never repetitive, large buildings and citys look great 
 when you are out walking around. You almost feel like a tourist walking around a new city as you 
 look at all the nice architecture. even walking across a bridge on foot is enjoyable. excellent 
 road structures and even a functional freeway system with traffic patterns that actually seem realistic.
 
  
  2. Physics - -perhaps the most enjoyable part of this game comes from the working physics system 
 in place. people, cars, and objects can be manipulated according to the rules built in the physics. 
 ex. If you drop a pipe bomb underneath a moving car, that car will then blow straight up, or even 
 diagonally. it all depends on the location of the force from the explosion.
  A fun thing to do is to line up cars and then drop nades or pipe bombs on them, you then try to 
 either walk under them as they explode into the air and come down right next to you or you try 
 to run past the exploding debris. I've been knocked down by flying doors and even matrix dodged 
 huge heaps of flaming metal by inches.
  overall, a fantastic physics system is in place for your enjoyment so use it well.
  
  3. Weapons 
 - a good selection of weapons, which includes many familiar weapons from the game counterstrike. 
 Personal favourites are the desert eagle, .44 magnum , ak-47 , awp (mcManus in this game) sniper 
 rifle , pipe bombs, grenades, and of course the Rpg. The rpg sounds amazing in this game, better 
 then any other game yet. You can hear and even see the force rippling off of the rocket as it speeds 
 towards its target and then blows that car 15 feet into the air, causing more ripples and debris.
 
  
  4. People - this game wouldn't be nearly as much fun without all these interesting people walking 
 around the streets. There's everything from the fat hooker to the old man with a cane hobbling 
 around. People can interact with you and even with others (without you doing something) You can 
 see fist fights , drive bys , police beat downs, all types of things that happen around you.
  They even cross the street when the traffic is stopped at a red light! They also run from danger, 
 make dives to avoid being hit , even laugh at the guy you're beating the crap out of. They might 
 even try to help that person by fighting you. The gang system is also very well done, you're homies 
 in the 3rd street saints will come running if they see you attack someone or be attacked. see a 
 cop you don't like just kick him near some of your saints and they'll come over with bats, knives, 
 and guns to kill that cop for you.
  
  5. The missions and activities - both are done well and surprisingly fun at times.
  
  6. Good 
 selection of cars, and a wide variety of car modifications in the garages.
  
  Overall:
  This is one of those games that made me buy the xbox 360, best of all this is only the first year 
 of xbox 360 games so we can only expect better games to come.
  
  Cons:
  -minor issues that need to be added
  - some alternative vehicles like (airplanes , helos, streetbikes, 
 choppers, bmx bike , boats , seadoo, quad jetpack )
  - parachutes, gliders?... skydiving and basejumping would be fun
  -arcade machines, basketball, pool, etc..
 
  -more accesible rooftops and inner buildings
  -fix the occasional slowdown and tearing issues Score:
  Gameplay: Original controls for its genre; 
 easy to aim at things that couldn't be done in GTA with ease.
  
  Graphics: Nothing special on the 360, but it couldn't be as amazing looking as Gears of War unless 
 it ran at 10fps. But none the less, this game is definitely next gen looking.
  
  Sound: Good variety of songs for all genres, as all the sound effects of what you would expect 
 for this game, good voice acting.
  
  Value: Fairly long single player, tons of online multiplayer that can keep you entertained for 
 hours. This game is worth the money.
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  ----------------------
  If you liked this review please recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wweguy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  You start off, a bum, the only thing to do is the mission. But like any beginer, you go explore, seeing 
 the world that is stillwater. You see a police car, and instictly, you steal it. You drive round for 
 10 minutes running over anyone you see getting a load of cops on you. A neat and sexy, sleak sports 
 car pulls up next to you, you get out of the smeely old cop car to steal the sports car then your 
 surrounded by cops armed to the teeth. The man in the sports car comes out, wearing blue, you think 
 nothing of it untill he pulls out an uzi and kills every last cop, you cant believe your luck, but 
 then you here people calling him a rolller or a gang man .At this you laugh until he turns round 
 and shoots you until your a bloody mess on the floor and the screen says your smoked .Time for 
 missions............ Soon after you find out he was in a gang called the west side rollers and 
 from then on, you swore unearthly war on them. You change to a shadow of your former self, from being 
 a no-body with crappy clothes, you become the most feared man in the town, wearing the most expensive 
 clothes money can buy. Anyway, the graphics are the best in a game of this genre ever-no dought 
 while the sounds are great, with cd you buy with music from even rock legend iggy pop and all that 
 old crap!!! So i say, if you dont have this game then bend over and beat yourself or run to the 
 nearest game store and buy it. The choice is yours.......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckypool04
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Its not that Saints Row, is a bad game but on the contrary a Great game, its got everything you 
 could possibly ask for. If your a fan of the kill, steal, take, everything genre. I found this 
 game to be quite entertaining and Cleary has a great formula for a sequel. STORY: You are a 3rd 
 street Saint, only time in the hood will tell if youre willing to battle the gangs and citizens 
 with respect or with a ruthless gun blast. You can littlarly find something to do everywhere in 
 Stillwater. Nothing is as easy as it seems, if you try to take on two many enemies and to many 
 gangs at a time, you will fall. Their is 3 gangs but the Carnales have the most territory, nevertheless 
 for me they were some of the easier missions, then the others. I took out all the Carnales and 
 pretty much all the Rollers missions but did not have enough time to finish the Vice King's, with 
 about 55% of the full game complete.
  
  PROS: Almost perfectly crafted game, which follows the GTA formula very well in a new and further 
 drawn, gang controlling game. Good driving mechanics, weapon variety, vehicle variety, good replay 
 value...
  
  CONS: Their really is nothing wrong with this game, maybe a few glitches but I had no problems, 
 while I played. It needs more variety in side, variety and main missions, also a little more, innovation 
 of new ideas. More story and comedy would have also been nice, like in the GTA games.
  
  OVERALL: I was not expecting much from this game but was presently surprised at how much goodies 
 it delivers. However, I am just not the type that likes the kill, steal everything type of games 
 but if you do, then I would strongly recommend this game. Furthermore, because it provides allot 
 of fun and is not just another GTA clone, like you may have thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slugger59
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Saints row is great game but i didnt have a good rep to stand up to gta but it has alot better 
 graphics. Te only thing that when gta 4 comes in saints row will be pushed out of getting a # 2. 
 I wish that they had dual hand guns in the game though and more guns. Bt it was worth getting the 
 game though and not a waste of money. But there is defenently a nother game u would raather game 
 but i recomend that u dont because it is just a little better than other games. Well i wouder if 
 there will be a # 2 anyway. But who really knows maybe there will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heir_jordan_023
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I love this game 'cause of the online play. I love the modes Protect tha Pimp and Team Gangsta 
 Brawl. The single player is fun but gets tiresome after a while. The only things I'd go back to 
 do in the single player is Insurance Fraud and I wouldn't go for the target zones. I'd just jump 
 off of the highest things and try for the craziest, most painful landings.
  
  The online is fun 'cause I was really good at it. I was ranked #21 in the world for the money leaderboard 
 and my gang, Guerrilla All-star Mob Elite was ranked #2 in the world on the money/members leaderboard. 
 I recommend this game to anyone who likes Grand Theft Auto games and to people who like online 
 shooters. The online is challenging because so much of it is based on strategy and technique. I 
 had it down perfect. I love this game and I'll be popping it in for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bguy9
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is not a rip off of gta, it plays and looks like it, but the feel of the gameplay 
 is different. While it isn't as good as grand theft auto, it is still a lot better than games such 
 as true crime, and is worth the money. The graphics outdue san andreas as they should being on 
 the 360, but the overall fun I had playing it just didn't match up to the experience of gta. The 
 driving mechanic is strange, but it is fun colliding head on and having the driver fly through 
 the windshield. The shooting mechanic is great, way better than gta, and the A. I. of the characters 
 is stellar. It is a nice feature being able to create your own character, but because he doesn't 
 have any lines it dampers the story and made me stop playing the game before I finished it because 
 I got bored. This game has some great visual effects and fun gameplay, but can get boring, and 
 thats what THQ needs to fix in Saints Row 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubz_934
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row begins with a slight collision between some members of the rival gangs (Vice Kings, 
 Los Carnales and Westside Rollerz) in which all but one VK dies. When he turns his gun on you Julius 
 and Troy (3rd street Saints) save you at the last moment, at this point Julius convinces you to 
 be part of the solution and join the Saints. Canonized
  
  This is your first ever mission. Its more of a tutorial as to how the combat system works, 2 punch 
 buttons and 1 for kicking. after this Troy takes you out to Clean up the Row, again more tutorialing, 
 this time weapons and driving.
  
  after your finished with Troy you have the option of activities to do for respect, which is how 
 you unlock main missions. These are:
  
  Snatch: Stealing girls from rival pimps and returning them to a brothel.
  Racing: Well what can 
 i say, its racing.
  Hitman: Take out given targets with certain weapons.
  Demo Derby: Wreck a given number of derby cars to win.
  Insurance Fraud: Purposefully get injured 
 for cash and respect.
  Chop Shop: Deliver certain cars with predetermined modifications.
  And more.......
  
  After you get enough respect you can play the main missions. these can be 
 anything from being gunner for another Saint to taking control of a rival stronghold.
  
  The gameplay itself is fantastic, if a bit buggy. Easy to p'n'p especially if you've played the 
 recent GTA games.
  
  Graphically, it makes great use of what the 360 is capable of, (I haven't played on other consoles,) 
 on the most part.
  
  So if you liked San Andreas and wanted to see your custom created character rise to the top of 
 the city, you love Saint's Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYCO109
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 22, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row represents the latest offering into the now crowded genre, and the first for the Xbox 
 360. Its a game that isnt shy about the fact that many of its mechanics are ripped straight from 
 Rockstars Grand Theft Auto series, but for Saints to truly make a name for itself it will have 
 to take a few chances to separate itself from the competition. Weve spent the past few weeks trudging 
 through the mountains of gameplay that Saints Row has to offer, and have emerged unscathed, albeit 
 a bit more thugged out than we remember. The beginning of Saints Row manages to separate itself 
 quite a bit from the game that it is so obviously modeled after. First of all theres the player 
 creation mechanic which allows you to design your gangster very similarly to how you would a golfer 
 in Tiger Woods. Everything from hairlines to waistlines can be designed to your liking, something 
 that would have been nice to see in GTA, but was understandably left out. The ugly underbelly of 
 that equation is that due to the millions of combinations that you can come up with using the creation 
 tool, your character never develops much of a personality throughout the game. In Vice City Tommy 
 Vercetti had a strong personality that helped to bring players into the world of being a criminal, 
 but in Saints Row the main character is nearly entirely mute  less a few quips that take a stab 
 at humor, only a few hitting their mark. Instead the story relies on its supporting cast of gang 
 members to drive the plot forward; luckily theyre nearly all up to the task. THQ went to great 
 lengths to sign on some seriously big names in the world of acting including Michael Clarke Duncan, 
 Keith David, David Carradine, Michael Rappaport, and Tia Carrere among others. They all sell their 
 respective personas very nicely, much like the actors in all of the GTA games. Without the cast 
 of actors in Saints the plot would undoubtedly fall flat on its face, rather than shining through 
 as well as it does. The missions, and more importantly, the entire point behind Saints Row is dominating 
 the 36 neighborhoods that make up Stilwater. The Saints  your characters apparent gang of choice 
  have been on the losing end of the gang wars as of late, seeking a haven in what seems to be 
 their last piece of safe ground; the church. The opposing gangs are fairly typical fare. First, 
 there are those of the Latin persuasion, Los Carnales (just be sure not to call them The Los Carnales) . 
 Theyre fiery Latinos, short tempered for sure. Then there are the Westside Rollers, unsurprisingly 
 their interests lie in jacking cars and pimping out their rides with the latest and greatest accessories. 
 Next come the Vice Kings, probably the nastiest of the four. Their gang is founded on shady business 
 and resembles the mob a bit more than the others. My question is why cant players make the choice 
 of allegiance for themselves? It seems that here, in the next-generation, that games should let 
 gamers make the choices, for a more user-defined experience. Sadly, Saints doesnt quite make the 
 leap into true next-generation gameplay. For that, well more than likely have to wait for Rockstars 
 next. Each of the gangs has their own set of missions, and you can complete these missions in any 
 order youd like. For continuitys sake youll likely want to play through one set at a time, just 
 to keep the story as straight as possible. Unlike GTA though, the core missions are not readily 
 available for your completion. Instead the respect meter needs to be filled so that missions will 
 open up. Filling the meter requires players to complete activities, of which there are many scattered 
 throughout Stilwater. The offering of activities includes things like hijacking cars, pulling off 
 insurance scams by causing as much damage to yourself as possible, and even participating in demolition 
 derbies. The activities of Saints Row are actually a bit more fun than those offered in Grand Theft 
 Auto, but the dynamic of forcing them down players throats gets a bit stale after awhile. Theres 
 also the mystery as to why completing missions for your gang, which entails things like picking 
 apart opposing gangs piece by piece, doesnt earn you enough respect  or any respect at all for 
 that matter  to continue on with the core missions. Its understandable that Volition (the developers) 
 wanted players to experience as much of Saints as possible, but they should have trusted their 
 game to be fun enough to inspire gamers to explore further than the main missions. The other meter 
 that gamers need to be constantly aware of is the notoriety meter. Essentially this will begin 
 to fill depending on who youre currently pissing off. Mow down a few coppers in the street and 
 youll earn a few stars, or start a mission that requires you to push a gangs drug shipments into 
 the ocean and youll get some unneeded attention from your enemies. The more stars you have, the 
 more trouble youre in. Luckily, just as in Grand Theft Auto there is a forgiveness store that 
 will reset your notoriety for a cost  ironically the stores name is Forgive and Forget. The notoriety 
 system feels like its ripped straight out of Grand Theft Auto. The cops reactions are nearly identical. 
 They begin with a few black and whites chasing after you, then the cops begin carrying shotguns, 
 then helicopters and SWAT begin to appear, and thats followed by FBI agents with their swank SUVs 
 careening towards your character, with automatic assault rifles waiting on the inside. The gangs 
 follow a similar response curve in that their intensity steadily ramps up as you gain more notoriety. 
 Beyond the constraints and predefined systems that lie within Saints Row theres also a game that 
 is largely about choice. Gamers have the ability to do everything that GTA provided, and in some 
 cases maybe a bit more. You can own houses by stealing your enemys strongholds, you can buy weapons 
 at the local gun shop, you can fine-tune your car with nitrous oxide at a parts store, or you can 
 simply rampage your way around town and have a bit of fun with the innocent civilians of Stilwater.
 
  Just like GTA before it, a good bit of fun can be had in Saints Row by simply driving around town 
 and wreaking as much havoc as possible. As players make their way across Stilwater it will become 
 clear that what youre driving through isnt designed to be a virtual depiction of a city, but 
 instead a city in its own right. People carry out everyday events just as they would in everyday 
 life, but the realism of the city is truly brought out by the oddities that happen in common society. 
 As you drive through Stilwater youll see car wrecks, people robbing stores, and even citizens 
 mugging one another. These random events help sell the fact that youre in a living, breathing 
 city atmosphere and not just some huge random group of avatars. The streets of Stilwater are nicely 
 varied. Sometimes youll be driving around nice, cookie-cutter residential homes, and other times 
 youll have to trek through the games interstate system. Much like the rest of the game, the roadways 
 feel very alive and are constantly littered with the residents of Stilwater. The physics engine 
 of Saints also aids in the fun factor. The ragdoll physics that are exhibited as you plow through 
 an innocent pedestrian are fun to see, and the fact that oncoming drivers actually fly through 
 their windshields in a head-on collision is a bit of good, if not sadistic, fun. Speaking of sadistic 
 fun, the multiplayer arena is filled with interesting game modes that turn illegal activities into 
 decadent entertainment. Matches are both free-for-all and team-based in structure, and are meant 
 for up to twelve players at a pop. You can thoroughly pimp out your online character just as you 
 can your offline persona, and join an in-game gang (clan) , complete with matching threads and statistical 
 tracking. Game modes go from the been-there-done-that Deathmatch known as Gangster Brawl, to the 
 strategic superstar Blinged out Ride. In team-based Blinged, both teams will have to pimp their 
 rides amidst gunfire and adversarial vehicles looking to play demolition derby. Theres also a 
 President-like Protect tha Pimp mode, and a fun resource (i. e. gold necklaces) gathering, free-for-all 
 or team based mode entitled Big A$$ Chains. Theres even a form of two player co-op which allows 
 two players to partake in various, multiplayer-specific activities, such as drug running and fleeing 
 a crime scene. For the most part the controls in Saints Row manage the action very efficiently. 
 The aiming reticule that has been bestowed upon players is much more intuitive and user-friendly 
 than the lock-on system that GTA uses. The only fault of the targeting system pops up while sniping, 
 as the right analog stick can be a bit too touchy when trying to make that crucial headshot kill. 
 The default driving controls could also use some tinkering as the A button is the default gas 
 pedal, which is obviously not nearly as intuitive as the analog sticks or triggers can be. The 
 camera is also a bit too slow to swing around while reversing, so youll be driving blind for a 
 few seconds while the view repositions itself. Drive bys, on the other hand, are easier to execute 
 than in Grand Theft, as you can now fire in any direction, not just to the right or left of the 
 car. The physics in the game affect the controls quite a bit as driving different car models provide 
 for different abilities. Obviously hopping into a Corvette-style racer will lend itself to speed, 
 but will lack the durability of a larger ride. Likewise, as you add more passengers to your vehicle 
 the handling will get more sluggish, just like it would in the real world. Heres a quick rundown 
 of the controls youll find within the world of Saints Row: Left thumbstick  movement Right thumbstick 
  change the view D-pad  change radio station/recruit followers Left trigger  alternate attack/handbrake 
 Right trigger  fire weapon/attack A button  select option/accelerate B button  change weapon 
 X button  jump/brake Y button  action/skip cinematic Right Bumper  sprint/look right Left Bumper 
  block/look left Overall Gameplay Impressions In case it hasnt become apparent yet at this point, 
 one thing should be known about Saints Row - beyond the fact its sorely missing an apostrophe 
  and that is that its almost a carbon copy of dynamics that weve seen before. Grand Theft Auto 
 pioneered the free-roaming genre, and Saints does little to truly innovate it. Sure there are a 
 few new additions, like the plethora of activities, or the ability to meld your character to your 
 liking, but there are simply too many parallels that can be drawn for Saints to be considered a 
 truly great game. Its fun, theres no mistaking that. Running around the city of Stilwater and 
 working through the impressively involving plotline is great, but it all feels extremely familiar. 
 While it may be true that the bar has been raised for GTA IV, Rockstar likely wont have a problem 
 clearing it with ease come October 2007. Graphics From the moment you start the game its clear 
 that youre playing on the Xbox 360. There are realtime reflections on the cars that you drive, 
 some impressive shader models, and finely detailed characters for you to toy around with. The city 
 of Stilwater is modeled very nicely and benefits from the fact that it doesnt have to worry about 
 the constraints of being molded in the image of an actual American metropolis. The map of the city 
 that is presented to players is also very functional and well laid out, giving players the ability 
 to set waypoints to any number of hotspots. The radar on the HUD, is also nicely organized, if 
 not a bit too zoomed in. I found myself being surprised by an oncoming turn because the radar doesnt 
 present a wide enough viewable area a bit too often. As you continue to traverse the city of Stilwater 
 the visuals get a bit rougher. Its almost as if the more you see in Saints Row the less youll 
 like. Driving around the interstate system reveals several pop-in problems with everything from 
 cars and shadows, to pedestrians and signs on the side of the street. Not only that but there are 
 also instances when cars that youre approaching will simply disappear into thing air. The framerate 
 is another problem area for Saints. When the action gets too frantic on-screen, which it commonly 
 does thanks to the amount of chaos that youre able to cause, things can slowdown to what can only 
 be defined as a quick slideshow. Overall the visuals are more of a mixed bag than the developers 
 were obviously aiming for. There are hints of graphical wonder within the follies that the engine 
 constantly makes, but theyre bogged down a bit too much. The explosions are something to watch, 
 and viewing a car go from pristine condition to a rumbling mess of bolts and pipes is pretty cool, 
 its just too bad that they couldnt smooth it all out in the last few months of development. Its 
 a memorable showing, but well be expecting much more from GTA IV. Audio Again, keeping with Grand 
 Theft Autos user-defined aural experience, Saints Row offers radio stations which can be tuned 
 to several different frequencies, each representing a different genre. Most of the mainstream categories 
 are well represented, with several notable artists lending their stylings to the soundtrack. Theres 
 also a personal music player that allows you to put music that youve purchased and place it onto 
 what amounts to an MP3 Player. Just as the music shines through, the dialogue and sound effects 
 do the same. As we said before, the actors who voice the personas in the gangs do a splendid job. 
 The plot wouldnt be nearly as accessible and engrossing as it is without the Hollywood talent 
 backing up the story arcs at every turn. Theyre funny when theyre supposed to be, theyre dramatic 
 at the proper time, and because of that the story runs its course without a hitch. The sound effects 
 follow in the same pattern with each sounding just as they should while packing the proper amount 
 of punch. The Bottom Line At the end of the day Xbox 360 owners could do much worse than Saints 
 Row. The amount of fun-filled gameplay that it delivers is worth the price of admission, and thats 
 not even factoring in the multiplayer playability or the Hollywood production values. The visuals 
 hit a few bumps in the road, but its not enough to significantly detract from the overall fun 
 factor. Given the fact that the newest GTA game wont be out for more than another year, gamers 
 have a long void to fill and Saints Row could very well fit the bill in the interim until Rockstars 
 newest gem reassumes its position atop the hill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiMetroWiccan
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Saints Row since a few days after its release, around a quarter-year as of this 
 review's posting, so much that I've neglected my usual review schedule, and other games.
  
  Most of my time has been dedicated to the multiplayer; which includes six competitive modes, three 
 maps each (four for TBAC/Team Gangsta Brawl if you download the Industrial Map Pack)
  
  Gangsta Brawl &amp; Team Gangsta Brawl are of the traditional deathmatch variety-like Team Big 
 *** Chains, you spawn with only a baseball bat and a pistol (the first is an underrated, and powerful 
 close-range weapon, while the latter is a long-range last resort)
  On two maps (Hustlin' and the downloadable Industrial Map Pack) the AR-40 XTD (Assault Rifle) is 
 available, a superior weapon to the AK-47, which is available in all maps and modes.
  
  While the other two maps, The Corner and The Ultor Dome, include the Pimp Hat (otherwise only accessible 
 by being the randomly-chosen pimp in Protect Tha Pimp)
  When wearing the Pimp Hat, the player has brass knuckles equipped, and one close-range slap will 
 send the opponent flying in an absurd manner (the game's physics are half the fun-sometimes you'll 
 pimp slap someone clear off a building, or shotgun someone three feet into the air)
  
  Big *** Chains and Team Big *** Chains are competitions to be first team with 400 points-13 points 
 per collected chain.
  Chains are collected by killing other players, whose number of chains will be displayed above their 
 head.
  Once a player has collected four or more chains, their position becomes visible on the radar (located 
 southwestern side of the screen)
  The chain drop-offs respawn every few minutes, to prevent a person or group of people from spawn-camping 
 in one place for too long.
  
  Protect Tha Pimp is like a completely different world from the other modes- should you die, you 
 cannot respawn until the next of up to 5 rounds (the goal being three successful rounds for one 
 team)
  While you're dead, you cannot communicate with your living teammate (s) , only deceased teammates 
 and the, otherwise inaudible except in matchmaking and game summary, (deceased portion of the) 
 enemy team.
  
  The rounds are brief, and the goal is for the pimp to reach the exit (some rounds contain two exits) 
 before the time limit is reached.
  Should the hitmen (the team whose name isn't across from the pimp hat icon) defeat the pimp, the 
 round ends, and the next begins.
  Should all hitmen be killed by the pimp, or the pimp's bodyguards, the round ends without the pimp 
 even having to reach the exit.
  
  Protect Tha Pimp's concept is similar to football, run to the end zone and try not to get killed 
 in the process.
  The random selection of pimp team occurs in a pattern-should you start with the pimp, you'll have 
 the pimp again for round two, usually as a different player.
  
  Some players, those who prefer long-range attacks, hate being the pimp, while others, experienced 
 with close-range combat and stealth, enjoy the title of pimp, in spite of the responsibility associated 
 with staying alive as the pimp, whose stamina (run meter) depletes a certain degree faster than 
 that of the other players.
  Though the pimp starts with only the pimp hat, everyone else spawns with the Handgun, Tombstone 
 Shotgun, AK-47, and Uzi.
  And, of course, bare knuckles, which are only useful against a low-health, reloading opponent, 
 and even then about 30% of the time.
  
  Blinged Out Ride is a competition between two teams to level up their car all the way to level 
 four, and bling it out at the respective area for that particular map for one minute (30 seconds 
 at Ultor Dome) while guarding the car.
  
  Money to bling out the car is earned by either dropping off the randomly-spawning chain ($300) 
 or killing an opponent ($100)
  Cash dropped by teammates killed by an opponent, can be collected as well (provided you grab it 
 before the opposing party does)
  
  The clock in Blinged Out Ride runs twenty minutes long; should it run out, the team with the higher-level 
 car automatically wins.
  Should both teams have the same level after the time expires the game enters sudden death, and 
 the first team to level up, bling out, or simply level down (blow up) the other team's car, is 
 the winner.
  In Sudden Death, garage shields are removed.
  
  From Level 1-3 the car is protected behind a shield while in the team garage; beyond the time limit, 
 or on level 4, the shield is removed and players are forced to find a new hiding spot or take it 
 to victory.
  
  Blinged Out Ride, like Team/Big *** Chains and Team/Gangsta Brawl, contains a variety of cars (except 
 at The Ultor Dome, which is limited to the team car, or the small, one-seater police Quota, whose 
 honk is replaced with a siren, and the Stillwater radio dispatch gives players something to play 
 with.
  
  All cars contain radios, whose stations are sorted by genre; Easy Listening, Classical, Rap, Rock, 
 or political discussion.
  Songs obtained in Single Player can be added to the playlist, including several hidden songs, found 
 by collecting a number of CDs.
  
  Custom Soundtracks saved through the XBox 360 dashboard can be used in-game, and the song can be 
 changed through use of the radio (D-pad left/right when in car)
  
  Whether you're a sniper, a slapper, an achievement junkie, a driver, a chain-hunter, a shotgun-rider, 
 or just plain third-person fan, you'll find something to love about Saints Row.
  
  Money earned through matches ($15-loss $45-win, plus bonuses for 5-to-10 kills in a row, or No 
 Deaths) is used to purchase new clothing and jewelry.
  
  The lobbies are perfect, especially if you want to have the same team everytime.
  Custom Matches 
 are awesome, giving players a chance to use weaponry and vehicles otherwise unavailable in Ranked 
 Matches, as well as giving them the option to customize the weather and time of day.
  
  Gangs can include a limitless number of individuals; Admins have control over recruiting/booting, 
 while the Owner can demote/boot both members and Admins.
  
  Hands down, Saints Row is in my opinion the best 3rd-person Shooter the 360 has to offer...
  
 
  Blessed Be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p3n15_4_ur_m0m
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. This is everything that GTA is not. In fact, if one were to put these side 
 by side to someone who has never seen either, they would probably say that the real GTA is a rip 
 off. Yes Saints Row takes a little from GTA but also adds on to it, expands and does what GTA didn't 
 and or failed to do. The gang fights are engaging and feel real and action packed, in GTA they 
 were just kind of bland. The story is exciting and interesting. But this game does have its hick-ups 
 here and there. Mostly with technical issues such as your car disappearing. But don't let that 
 turn you off from this game, its price is great from the amount of fun and quality you get from 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthDravvid
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Saints Row basically puts the player in the perspective of their own created character that has 
 to earn respect and work his way through the streets under the flag of the gang called the 3rd 
 Street Saints. This game is fairly long, with quite a few missions and side activities that allow 
 the character to really explore his world. Graphics
  
  I thought the graphics were fairly well done. They weren't the BEST I've seen, but given the fact 
 that there are large worlds with many inhabitants walking around, it looks great. There are a few 
 frame rate issues when the action tends to get hairy with a lot of guys and explosions happening 
 at once, but otherwise it's smooth. All in all, everything looks like next-gen GTA.
  
  Gameplay
  
  I thought the controls, again, are pretty standard, just like GTA. So, I like them 
 a lot. Nothing too complicated, push this to yank someone out of the car, this to kick them... etc.. 
 Also, I do like the addition of the physics system in the game, which gives you that little cringe 
 when you see someone actually crushed by a speeding car. The game isn't necissarily too hard, although 
 there are some challlening missions, but it's faily balanced out.
  
  Sound
  
  I thought the sound in the game was crisp and clear, and there were quite a few cool effects in 
 there as well. For example, when you or someone else is blasting their radio in their cars, you 
 can hear it (slightly muffled) coming from outside the vehicle. I thought that this really added 
 a sense of realism to the game. Overall
  
  Although this game closely imitates GTA, I am not really offended, since I love the franchise a 
 lot. And I think that this game did a good job with what it was trying to achieve. It only makes 
 me wonder how next-gen GTA IV will look and feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue_ice212121
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Great game, it's just a taste until GTA VI comes out. this game is sweet the best part is that 
 when you buy it.
  
  ok, ok people (alot) of people say it's a rip off of GTA but that is not true for one Rock star 
 the people that made GTA also made saints row, so how can Rock star rip off it's self? well this 
 game is just a taste of GTA VI because one did not come out in 2006 for xbox so they made this 
 game, In this game you get to PIMP out cars, way better then GTA and you can rob stores to make 
 money, jack cars to make money, do side missions to make money. make your own guy and later pay 
 $4000 to re-make him, fat, skinny, green, blue, yellow, red, tall, short ETC. Go anywhere, and have 
 hommies to back you up, from the get away car-to the zombie-to the chicken guy-to the gun man.
 
  Buy fast cars or fine them, you should buy this game, here are a few bad things one short game, 
 No bikes, boats, planes.
  sometimes when you drive down the highway you'll see a truck then it will be gone but the smoke 
 will still be there. and when you look back the cars that were in front of you will be gone and 
 when see a car coming you want to get it so u start to go to it and you check to the side to see 
 if a better car is coming the other car will be gone. This game is still a great game and GTA VI 
 should be out in Oct 7/07 but i can't wait until GTA V (GTA five) comes in 2009.
  
  I give this a 9.2 just the graphics are a bit bad, but great game-play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trpjazz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all this game is very fun and some what addicting. There are some improvements that 
 are needed: First of all the graphics are not up to par with some nex gen. games and also cycling 
 through the weapons seems akward and also the same with the food thing but on a more positive note 
 this game doesnt get enough recognition because this game is a lot better than most.... Also i 
 think they should have focused more on the graphics rather than a boring online multiplayer system... 
 i ahve yet to beat the game but the story mode is a very good length and somewhat challenging but 
 this game is fun to get your frustrations out lol and has a good GTA feel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackcrawford_06
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is fantastic from the start the characters are well built each storyline is different 
 but still good. the strongholds are good fun to take over. all of the side missions differ and 
 are each rewarding . the graphics are better than any GTA gfame i've played although the clothes 
 aren't as good or there aren't as many as GTA. the garages are better and the houses are well stuctured. 
 the safe option in your house is a good addition and so is the weapons storage. the cars are good 
 as is the radio stations. the ability to call the wheel woman and use weapons like the assault 
 rifle or rocket launcher is also a fantastic abilyity and i had many fun hours of drive bys with 
 this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360_4_lyf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  so what this game dont have great grathics so what it is an amazing game it makes gta look like 
 a pile of old horse poo lol great online play mt fravoritte game to play online and solo play just 
 as good as gta i reli hope gta 4 is just as good or even better i reli hope the online game play 
 is just as exsiting as it i like the way you win money and buy awsome clothes im saving up for 
 a yellow pimp suit which is 2.500.00 dollers an thats gonna take alot of saving hehehehehehe i 
 dont play much solo play but i play alot of online ... another cool thing is the gangs you can 
 create your own gang and get your gang up in those leaderboards and earn your gang money!!!.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: star_555
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  this game is crazy. this game is crazy . its not gta but its pretty close to it . i noticed that 
 there are some new things in the game the gta doesnt have .like u can hit a bong, or take down 
 a 40 of beer. i also noticed that there are soo many new cars . u can pimp out any car u want . 
 make it faster put a spoler on it and make some body work. the only thing i dont like is the respect 
 meter . 2 get futher on in the game u have to do other missons that arent as fun . overall its 
 realy good . buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rejected777
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 15, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  I was browsing through the used games section when I found this little gem. I asked the guy in 
 the store what he thought of it (since the guy is honest and not a salesman that says all games 
 are great) and he said it was worth trying.
  
  Boy was he right.
  
  Saints Row reminds me a lot of GTA III with a twist. Now, it's not the mob, it's gangs. It's like 
 the gamestore clerk said It makes fun of all the hip-hop clich&eacute; s you see in movies and hear 
 in songs . That was spot on if you ask me. With lines like Let's go put some motherf**kers in the 
 ground! , you can't help but laugh at the cheesyness.
  
  The graphics are not excellent, but quite decent. Animation wise, it looks stiff at points but 
 mostly Saints Row is well animated. Some animations are quite excellent though, especially the 
 cutscenes.
  
  I really liked the cutscenes. The areas they're played out in, the scripts, the characters and 
 the voice acting are all well exectuted. The voice actors makes the characters believable. The 
 main protagonist though, has surprisingly few lines which is a let down. You never really get to 
 know him, what he thinks or why. The other main characters all have well defined personalities 
 you get to know easily and either love or hate.
  
  When you first start the game you get to customize how your character looks. You can choose race 
 for example, haircuts, brow size and so on. You can also make your own character from scratch if 
 you don't want to choose race for example.
  
  When driving to missions, on missions or just cruising you always have a lot of radio channels 
 with real varied music, ranging from hip-hop to classic to rock. The areas you drive through vary 
 a lot too. When driving through The Barrio for example, most people will talk or yell at you in 
 spanish. Every areas people speaks to you in a way adjusted to their heritage and social level 
 , which was a nice touch, instead of ye olde generic npc.
  
  Speaking of driving, all vehicles in Saints Row act as you'd expect them to. Small cars accelerate 
 fast and turn on a dime while big trucks are really slow to turn and accelerate, but once you get 
 them up to speed, god help anything in your way. There is a vast choice of vehicles in Saints Row, 
 ranging from the little 3-wheeled cars that meterladies drive to big trucks to small european cars 
 to big pickup trucks.
  
  Saints Row has a main story dividied into three chapters which you can complete in any order. However, 
 after you completed one mission, you need to gain a certain amount of respect before being able 
 to embark on the next one. You earn respect by doing side missions such as stealing hookers from 
 pimps and dropping them off at your gangs brothels, guarding drugdealers when they make their drug 
 runs or delivering specific cars to chop shops. The most innovative side mission has to be insurance 
 fraud, where you jump in front of cars to fake injury to make a case for the crooked attorney.
 
  
  As the game progresses, you will be able to control more and more gang wannabes, which you can 
 drag around on missions with you. You start out with one, but can control up to three at a time. 
 These gang wannabes are a great source of comedy, due to their cheesy clich&eacute; lines.
  
  I would recommend Saints Row to anyone who enjoyed the GTA series, or just want to try something 
 new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcTrooper3827
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  To the point! I pick up this game on a friend's reference because I told him how much of a GTA 
 fan I really am. He told me and I got it, put it in the Xbox and started playing. Right away I 
 was noticing that this game was all around fun and easy to pick up play. The controls were easy 
 to pick up and learn, the sound effects were great right on I say. Sound track is good give the 
 real feeling of being a straight up Balla. Next I noticed the graphics for one the were good haven't 
 seen any glitches so far, but they are clean and cut. All though there were some things about the 
 game that could be worked on like when you are swimming maybe being able to dive, or the police 
 kind of give up a little to easy and the cars could have a little more speed. But the gangs are 
 cool dangerous when provocted but cool. Anyway this game is great and I highly recommend it to 
 who ever like GTA and FPS..... or just for those who are waiting for GTAIV to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxmax1234
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  So, where do i need to start whit this game?
  graphics, to be fair, i think the could get a lot more out of this powerfull console. It still 
 looks a lot better then the gta series. but they where on way older consoles. so thats something 
 less about this game.
  
  Online gameplay.
  Well i got this game around 1 and a half month after it was released. You would expect more people 
 online. sometimes there suddenly 100 people and sometime almost 10. Thats really bad, because you 
 can get a lot of achievents points from the online gameplay. but if there are 6 people online you 
 cant start a game. thats really disapointing.
  
  Storyline.
  Fantastic there are 3 different gangs:
  The Rollers, Car obsessed gang members.
  The Carnalos, 
 have the most money because they have big deals whit Colombians.
  The Vice Kings, They have the most power and the toughest strongholds. They have the longest storyline 
 and the most missions.
  
  Addiction.
  Not really, but i dont like this kind of games for to long.
  After a while the boring missions 
 come on, and they are really boring.
  So than i only do it for the achievements points. I'm a achievements wh*re 
  
  Achievements.
 
  Sometimes really easy, sometimes radder difficult. If you attack and kill 50 people whit your 
 bare hand, you get points. have 50 cars in your garage, POINTS, drive 500 or walk 27.5 miles. And 
 you get a lot of fun activities like insurance fraud ore hijacking. Thats really fun, and if you 
 do them all you get a whole lot of points.
  Overall a good game for 13 hours good gameplay and around 450 points easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery_dude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great game good graphics great sounds and great story mode. The arrangement of cars 
 and weapons is great the inventory controls are in genius and the ragdoll physics are amazing! (Yet 
 slighty unrealistic when hit at high speeds)
  
  RAGDOLL: The ragdoll is good but asI said unreal at sometimes I also like the fact that everyone 
 in the whole city that moves has ragdoll. Even when you beat someone up the first time they fall 
 even if they're not dead the ragdoll kicks in immediately!
  
  GAMEPLAY: It is great but can get slightly repetitive as most of the missions are the same. Once 
 you complete it, it gets alot more like GTA as all that is really left is the side missions that 
 no-one really does. In Saints Row though the side missions are more fun but only one of them is 
 really different to GTA and that one is Insurance Fraud. There are a variety of side missions such 
 as Drug Trafficking, Insurance Fraud and Escorting.\m/.
  
  OVERALL: Overall it is a great game fun yet challenging and at the end easily playable without 
 missions or just as easily started again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew952
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 12, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game goes for the gold, and I feel that it should get it.
  
  Saints row seems, at first glance, to be no more than a GTA copy. And no one can say that this 
 is completely false. But once you dive in specifics, you can find thousands of minor updates and 
 fixes thta make it worth the money. One nice feature is that the entire world is one seamless etnity. 
 the buildings are accesible without loading, the cribs are nice to. An added feature is that all 
 of the money from various places is kept in one place, making it much easier to collect. Graphically, 
 this game is nice, but the art design whieghs more. I feel that this is what would ahve happened 
 if R* had spent 2 more years in production, and with better graphics.
  From a refined user interface, to thousands of minor improvements, this game is definetly worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Yes, this game is a TOTAL rip-off of Grand Theft Auto. Couldn't be more of a rip-off without actually 
 being made by Rockstar. But that doesn't mean the game is not a fun game because it very much is 
 enjoyable.
  
  You are, of course, a nameless person who joins the Saints in an attempt to put them atop the gang 
 hierarchy. That's the story in a nutshell. It is, yes, really similar to GTA: San Andreas. But 
 visually, the game is pretty impressive. The occasional framerate hiccup does not take away from 
 how good the game looks. The city of Stillwater looks vibrant and alive. You have ghettoes, you 
 have nice upscale neighborhoods, you have arenas --- it all looks really solid. The audio is also 
 quite good. The voice acting is quite good, which is a sad rarity in gaming.
  
  The weaponry is, well, it's also just like GTA. Rocket launchers, machine guns, et al are used 
 liberally in this title. The driving is really quite fun as the cars all handle rather well. No 
 flying vehicles in this first title, but since this one sold decently, I imagine a sequel will 
 include that in it. And the non-mission activites are actually really good and well-done. Insurance 
 fraud is a bizarre choice for minigames for a gang sim, but it does a good job of showcasing the 
 somewhat over-the-top ragdoll physics. My personal fave was mayhem, where you simply had to cause 
 as much as havoc and destruction as possible in a short span of time. When people say the game 
 borrows heavily from --- heck, let's go all-out and say they pay homage to --- GTA, words don't 
 do it justice. The numerous radio stations with an eclectic (albeit inferior) collection of music 
 is there. The conservative talk radio station ( WMD. K-BOOM ) actually had some laugh-out-loud 
 moments with their oblivious hosts. The really, REALLY bad hyper-sexed Wendy's rip-off ads got 
 cheesy quickly, as did the other attempts at crude but edgy humor, but I'll give the talk radio 
 guys lots of credit for some terrific dialogue and genuine humor.
  
  This is, presently, the best sandbox title on the 360 (Just Cause is its only competition and, 
 let's be honest, it's not really competition) . It's not a classic and will easily be surpassed 
 by future titles, but for now, it's a fun diversion with enough enjoyment packed in it to entertain 
 you until GTA actually comes out and gives Volition ideas for S. R II. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zelda187
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Saints Row does what every GTA does... but better.
  
  It may not be as original, but the sound and visuals are superior. But the thing that really sets 
 it apart is the character customization. You can finally create a player that looks just like you 
 and create dustruction throughout the city. The AI is also superior to GTA's. Your fellow gang 
 members help you out WAY more than in San Andreas and you can revive them by simply dumping a 40 
 oz on their head.
  
  The explosions are stunning and this game is just flatout fun. If you have a 360 and are a fan 
 of the GTA series, pick this one up.
  
  There's no way you'll be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smitticus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  Intro: - GTA. Who doesn't like it (besides the government) ? I mean it's got the guns, the cars, 
 and it gives you a warm feeling in your stomach whenever you run over an innocent pedestrian. Well 
 here's a clone that Volition Inc. has popped out of it's womb, and let me tell you, it's worth 
 the $60.00.
  
  Gameplay: - Hmm. Well if someone told you to take GTA III, slap a new cover on it, and put it on 
 Best Buy shelves to chalk out the little left cash in the average 360 gamer's wallet, you wouldn't 
 get Saint's Row. First of all, the story is different. After scrambling through the character creation 
 screen (and a pretty darn long one at that) , you are initiated into the 3rd Street Saint's, a bunch 
 of pistol-totin', tattoo plastered gangstas'. The storyline isn't the best in the world, but it'll 
 keep you going. Missions will have you taking over as much of the city as you possibly can, gaining 
 rep, killin' rival gang members, and earning a crap-load of cash. But the real fun happens when 
 you hijack a set of wheels, buy a gun, and shoot the city of Stillwater till it just can't take 
 'no more. No, it never gets old, but along with this ever-so-familiar gameplay comes some pretty 
 pimpin' features as well, such as the ability to shoot, with any gun, out the side-window of almost 
 any car. Speaking of city, Stillwater, while no Liberty City, serves as a pretty good backdrop 
 for the game. Another cool aspect of Saint's Row is the ability to pick up homies, poorly dressed 
 (and armed I might add) fellows of your gang. They can help you a lot during the game, especially 
 on lengthy and tough missions. You have multiple houses, or 'cribs' throughout your journey, which 
 contain a garage, an armory and a save point. Cribs also serve to store clothing and accessories, 
 which are also a nice touch. Overall, the gameplay in Saint's Row is comparative to that of the 
 GTA series, and in some ares it even beats it.
  
  Graphics/Sound: - This is where S. R. really shines out against GTA. Graphics are well crafted, 
 animations are usually smooth, and cut scenes, while not the best acted, are some of the best looking. 
 Your character's clothing along with other characters' clothing is wonderful, along with the numerous 
 cars you can steel. There are a variety of options to pimp out your ride which all look fantastic. 
 Lighting is nice, but sometimes it will fault out on you. Sound could have been developed and looked 
 into a bit more. Voice-overs are great, the guns sound good, but the radio songs aren't varied 
 enough to keep you listening to it for long.
  
  Value/Tilt: - Value is high, and this game will last you quite a while. There is a bit of a tilt, 
 for the game freezes up a bit, and there a re some wacky glitches that will pop up on you. You 
 might not want to play the story again right after you beat it, but wait a little while and you'll 
 be longing to rampage the city of Stillwater.
  
  Overall: - It's a great game to recommend, and I suggest not to rent it, but to buy it straight 
 off the shelf. The gameplay, combined with the graphics and value will keep you addicted until 
 GTA IV finally hits the market. And maybe even after that, who knows. 8.8. Its more than good. 
 Its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TCisGod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a GTA-style game for the Xbox 360. In it you play a nameless thug who is recruited 
 by a gang called the 3rd Street Saints to help them take over the city of Stilwater. At the beginning 
 you can customize your character by changing their race, hair color, body type, etc. The game plays 
 almost exactly like Grand Theft Auto. You still steal cars, shoot people, and blow stuff up. But 
 in Saints Row their is no auto aim, and there are not any planes, motorcycles, or boats to use, 
 just cars. The graphics are good and the voice acting is well done, but the games soundtrack could 
 have been a lot better. The game takes close to 40 hours to beat and there are a number of side 
 missions to complete. After you are done with that you can play the games multiplayer mode. There 
 are many game types like Deathmatch and Co-op.
  
  Overall Saints Row is a solid game that Grand Theft Auto fans looking for a good game in the genre 
 will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto is probably the most-loved (and most hated) game of all time. Many people have 
 released games that many say are gta-clones like: Just cause ,simpsons hit and run !?! and the 
 recent crackdown.
  However at of all the games they have said are gta-clones this is definetly the best one.
  The 
 story is that you have joined a ganag called the saints and you want to cliam back what rightfully 
 yours... the city.
  This includes blowing people up killing people and all other sorts of things. The graphics aren't 
 as good as maybe crackdown; s but astill they look really stylish.
  The gameplay is great although the camera can be a little wobbly the firing is great. The driving 
 is a bit weird at first but you will get used to it.
  One of my favourite things is doing a hold-up you have to point your gun at the person behing the 
 counter and they will go to the safe and getall the money out it is great fun.
  This really is a great game with laugh out loud moments and awesome gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XDGRifle
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a GTA inspired Game with a graet gameplay style and Online play, But online play 
 is horrible with proctect the pimp mode were yo can either be the pimp, the protector or the Killa. 
 The only cool prt of online is the Create your own gang mode. Story Mode is way better. In it you 
 can create your own caracter and you join the 3rd Street Saints 1 of 4 Gangs in the game. There 
 are the: Vice Kings, West Side Rollerz And Los Carneles, And you and the saints are on a mission 
 to rule the city of StillWater. But its not that easy first you have to complete many activites 
 and complete tons of missions. there is a vast amount of land to Roam and many activities. There 
 are cool features like you can store cras in you crib's garage which is cool. So good Luck taking 
 over Stillwater!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJCaccy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  When I heard of Saints Row I think I did exactly what everyone else did. Curled up into a ball 
 and groaned not another GTA clone, please god, I don't want another True Crime . Indeed, I was 
 so disturbed by the news that I didn't bother following its development and practically ignored 
 it, earmarking it as crap from the beginning.
  However, when I saw that Gamespot gave it 8.3 my interest was aroused and I read their review. 
 Suddenly this game seemed promising. The review alone was not enough to tempt me into buying the 
 game for myself, but it was on my gaming radar. Christmas then arrived and I thought, what better 
 time to gamble on a game than with someone else's money? So I took the plunge.
  I have to say at first I was not impressed. I made my character, who looked startlingly like me, 
 and began my foray into the Row . Maybe it was because I was drunk at the time (it was Christmas 
 Day so cut me some slack, I'm not a raging alcoholic) but it just seemed unresponsive and I couldn't 
 seem to steer properly (proof not to drink and drive I think) .
  I returned to it the next day, in the afternoon after my hangover had succumbed to a large dose 
 of coffee) , and suddenly the game seemed fun. I kept playing and playing and playing, until I could 
 play no more, as with a monster headache I retired to my bed.
  What I'm trying to say, and possibly not in the most straightforward manner, is that Saints Row 
 is actually a fantastic game. Sure, its not the most innovative game this side of Generic Platformer 
 X, but it does exactly what it says on the tin, and does it all so well that I think anybody will 
 be impressed.
  To anybody who has liked the GTA series even the slightest bit I recommend this wholeheartedly, 
 as it is sure to please. Sure, the humour isnt as good as in Rockstars franchise, but the pure 
 gaming mechanics are arguably much better (such as the use of free aiming, as opposed to lock on 
 aiming, and the side missions such as Escort and Mayhem ) . Saints Row is a massive game, which 
 if given half a chance is sure to impress most who try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Si-monster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  Superb free-roaming action. All the best aspects from the likes of GTA: San Andreas, Def Jam: Fight 
 for NY and True Crime: NY all rolled into one tight package. Saints Row offers a ton of character 
 customisation options, great weapons, cars and rewards and a more realistic cash flow system than 
 similar titles. As with previous games of this ilk, its the little details that really bring Saints 
 Row to life. Tipping beer on a downed homie to revive him or vaulting the door to enter a convertible 
 are but a few of the touches which make this game what it is: Excellent! A few minor game play 
 glitches aside, this is a must-have for any fan of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trystkl1826
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The weirdness of the car control is what keeps me from ranking this game higher that an 8 or 8.3 
 since, for most of the game, I am in a car. Other than this the game play is fun, addictive and 
 gives me the feeling that I am in this game trying to take the streets. My favorite part of the 
 game has been designing my own player. With the design of my pwn player it makes the gaming emotion 
 personal, which is where the addictive quality of this game is for me. Also, with this feature, 
 I see myself playing this game more than once with different character designs. The clarity of 
 the voices is something that stands out to me. A wonderful job has been done in that area. The 
 choice of music is amazing. Even more amazing is that I can control what I listen to when I want 
 to hear it. I am a lover of many genres of music. And at 3:00 in the morning, playing this game, 
 I love that I can listen to classical rather than Hip-Hop (which I do love, just not at 3 a. m) . 
 Even the map is awesome. It is detailed and gives me lots of control on how I want to play. A great 
 job has been done on this game. It plays like lots of time was put into making it a quality gaming 
 experience. As a consumer I say thank you and as a gamer I say phew and breathe a sigh of relief 
 as I was holding my breath when I opened the packaging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  If this isn't the most blatant rip off of another game in the history of video games, then I want 
 to see what game beats this. Saints Row doesn't just borrow the Grand Theft Auto formula. It knocks 
 it down, kicks it in the nuts, and punches its mom. Most of the time, rip offs are horrible games 
 made solely because of another games success. But Saints Row obviously did its homework because 
 this game succeeds on so many levels that I'm surprised how much I liked it. Seeing as how most 
 games that borrow aspects from Grand Theft Auto aren't all that great and I just finished Scarface 
 not too long ago and thought it was incredibly boring, I wasn't expecting much from this game. 
 Needless to say, I was pleasantly surprised. You are a no name, literally. Your character has no 
 name. The other characters usually just call you things like dawg, homie, and g-shnizzle. Word 
 up! At the start of the game, you're just walking along looking for some fun if you know what I 
 mean. During this walk, a gang busts through and starts gunning people down. Soon after, you are 
 recruited to the 3rd Street Saints. The whole point of this game is to take down the other three 
 rival gangs, the Vice Kings, Westside Rollerz, and Los Carnales. So obviously the story isn't as 
 deep as other games, but I personally thought it was great.
  
  Like I said, I loved the idea of this game. In the Scarface game, you could wipe out every single 
 gang throughout the whole city and your fronts would still be attacked. But in Saints Row, this 
 aspect of gameplay works just like it should. If you take over an area previously controlled by 
 the Vice Kings for instance, they may try to take it back and you will have to defend it, but after 
 you finish all of the missions against the Vice Kings, it won't happen anymore. This makes the 
 game that much more believable and already leaps and bounds above Scarface.
  
  The Grand Theft Auto comparisons aren't even attempted to be hidden in this game, which in the 
 long run, I respect. THQ knows that the Grand Theft Auto games are popular, fun, and made well. 
 So instead of trying to take parts of that formula and form it into a whole new game, they stole 
 it and practically replicated it to the extent that even the way the character crawls out of an 
 upside down car looks eerily familiar. But it works. If nothing else, Saints Row should hold even 
 the most revered Grand Theft Auto fan over until the new game.
  
  Despite all of the similarities to the GTA games, Saints Row does offer some new, exciting, and 
 original ideas. There were a lot of times in this game where I was wondering why no other open 
 world game of this type ever thought of it. Besides the main story missions, there are lots of 
 different types of side missions you can partake in. Some are things that have been done before 
 like assassinating somebody and stealing cars and taking them to a shop. But others are so wildly 
 original and fun that it will take up more of your time than you'll expect. The craziest side mission 
 is called Insurance Fraud. In this mode, you have to go out and hurt yourself to gain money. You 
 must take a dive off of high areas, run in front of cars, or anything else that will hurt you. 
 There is a fairly balanced time limit for you to get these missions done. All it takes is one really 
 good hit from a car to make a couple hundred thousand dollars and pass the mission. It's a fun 
 aspect of gameplay because you don't only have to time yourself up to jump in front of speeding 
 cars, but you must also pay attention to where cops and witnesses are and what kind of vehicle 
 you're diving in front of. Taking a dive in front of cops and pedestrians earns you more money. 
 Getting hit by a bus or cop car or anything that the city uses will also earn you more money. This 
 mode does tend to get a bit repetitive, but going back to it after a while is awesome. It's incredibly 
 funny to watch your limp body fly through the air only to flip over a lamp pole and land flat on 
 your face.
  
  Another very fun and funny side mission are the Snatch missions. In this mode, you will have to 
 pick up an entertainer and drive her and her client around. But the client is always someone that 
 the media always pays close attention to. So you will have to watch for news vans and try to stay 
 away from them as best you can. If the news vans get too much footage, you fail. These missions 
 are funny because the couples say things while you're driving and needless to say, they're not 
 very family oriented. Typing them here would probably get my review deleted, but believe me, they're 
 funny.
  
  Other not as good, but still fun side missions include drug trafficking, where you must protect 
 the dealer and the buyer from the cops and other gangs, street racing, robbery, even a demolition 
 derby. My one major gripe with the side missions is that a lot of them are mandatory. To progress 
 in the story, you need to earn respect and these side tasks are the main ways to get it. So although 
 you won't have to do the incredibly difficult stages if you don't want to, having to do them in 
 the first place is a bad idea. For starters, although the side missions are somewhat fun, they 
 do get repetitive and some players might not want to fool with them. Also, I absolutely can't stand 
 the idea of getting respect in games. You had to gain reputation in Scarface and it was only there 
 to add length to a game that they knew was fairly short and it hurt the overall presentation. Saints 
 Row has the same problem. Before and each and every mission in the game, you must have your respect 
 meter filled up. You can do enough side missions to fill it up multiple times so you won't have 
 to keep going back after every story mission which is nice, but completing only one of these won't 
 fill up the meter. A lot of the time, you will have to do 2 or 3 missions just to fill it up once. 
 If it fit in the context of the game, then that's fine, but every game that has used this tactic 
 makes no sense out of it. There is a point in this game where somebody you know is being held hostage, 
 but unless your respect is up, you can't go save her. So what you're telling me is that after all 
 I've done previously in the game, I can't go save someone because I haven't driven around some 
 perverted greaseball around in my car with a prostitute? Please. It makes no sense and it's obviously 
 a tactic to lengthen the game. Some people may be able to look past this, but I can't.
  
  The main story missions consist mainly of running and gunning. The story missions really aren't 
 anything that you've never done before, but they are still executed very well. There is some variety 
 in mission to mission which consist of a few track shooting, tailing, and demolishing missions, 
 but most are straight forward shoot the other gang type of things. The controls are fine all across 
 the board and the shooting segments control like a first person shooter and it handles perfectly. 
 Why other games like this insist on spotty lock on targeting instead of first person shooter controls 
 I'll never know, but Saints Row is smart in this aspect.
  
  The graphics are decent enough, but for an Xbox 360 I was expecting more. When it came to how far 
 you could see, it was simply astonishing. If you're driving on the highway, you can literally see 
 buildings all the way on the other side across the map. The fire effects were also breathtaking. 
 Every single time you blow something up, you'll find yourself gazing in awe at the beauty of it. 
 But when it came to close up things like character models and environment details, I just wasn't 
 all that impressed. There was also some instances of pop up throughout the city. The thing that 
 bugged me the most though is that a few times in the game, my car would simply disappear and I'd 
 be floating in the air. It wasn't a huge deal since the car would usually snap right back in to 
 place, but it was a problem nonetheless.
  
  The sound is actually rather well done. Almost every voice actor in this game nailed their part 
 perfectly, even the smaller ones. Seeing as how there are a lot of characters in this game, I was 
 very impressed that they all sounded like they should no matter what they looked like. When it 
 came to the guns and explosions, I was also very impressed. The guns sounded powerful and the explosions 
 boomed and echoed through the television.
  
  Despite all of my praise for this game and even with all of the things it does better than Grand 
 Theft Auto, it still isn't better than Grand Theft Auto. GTA just has a lot more variety when it 
 comes to the missions, the map is bigger, and the overall presentation is just more impressive. 
 GTA also doesn't force you to do repetitive side missions to progress the story. That is one thing 
 that GTA has always done well and that other open world games need to strive for. GTA has a long 
 story all told through different story missions. It still has side missions to do if you choose, 
 but it's nice to have them as an option rather than an annoyance. Even so, Saints Row is a long 
 game that will take a good 15 hours or so to finish. I'll warn you right now though, the ending 
 is disappointing. There are many theories as to what the ending means and what happened, those 
 of which I'll leave for you to figure out. It's just that after all you went through in the game, 
 the ending was so unjustified and bad that it almost makes you feel angry. Despite some problems 
 and the blatant rip off of the GTA games, Saints Row is a highly addictive and entertaining game 
 that has enough charm and personality to please gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Footy_Mocko
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Speaking of respect; that is exactly what Saints Row is all about  but more about that later. 
 When you first start the game you are tossed straight into a character creation screen which seems 
 to offer an almost infinite number of options to create just about any kind of character you wish. 
 After a few minutes of tweaking trying to get your character just the way you want (or seconds 
 by picking one of the randomly generated ones) you are then tossed into the crime-ridden city of 
 Stilwater, this is of course the city where your characters story unfolds. From the moment you 
 arrive in Stilwater you can drive anywhere in the gaming environment. No areas are closed of due 
 to bridges being broken or any other clever set-ups. With the whole city being open to you, you 
 can also go about your criminal ways straight from the get-go. Even though it is a whole load of 
 fun just to drive around, crash into stuff and steal stuff to crash into more stuff, you wont 
 be getting too far into the game unless you start to complete a few mission and this is where the 
 respect feature I talked about earlier comes in. The missions themselves are very well put together 
 with an exceeding amount of variety amongst the selection presented. To advance in the game you 
 need the respect of those around you, without that you wont be able to advance to the next part 
 of the storyline. Your respect meter (which is displayed on screen at all times) can only be filled 
 by doing various side missions which can be done with or without the help of the gang you are recruited 
 by  The 3rd Street Saints. I will try not to focus on the games story too much as having that 
 spoiled ruins some of the games fun. The basics of the story are that there are three rival gangs 
 who have also made a home in Stilwater these are; the Los Carnales, the Vice Kings, and the West 
 Side Rollerz. As you would expect, most of the game revolves around your gang doing various tasks 
 to mess with the other gangs to get your boys to the top. Each of the gangs have their own storyline 
 and you have the option to choose which gang you want to take down first (in essence they are in 
 fact 3 separate storylines in one game) . There are loads of characters to meet and loads of twists 
 and turns on the way to the top. The story Volition tells is beautifully realised making you want 
 to continue playing after every mission you complete. It truly is very hard to put the controller 
 down, I personally put in a unanticipated late night of gaming with my first day with the title 
 as 4am snuck up on me without me realising it. To keep things interesting there are also some other 
 side-missions: Escorting Hookers, Drug Trafficking, Late Night Heists, Insurance Fraud Accidents, 
 Chop Shop Car Theft, Demolition Derby, Car Jacking Hostages, Snatching Hookers from Rival Pimps, 
 Tagging Rival Graffiti, Street Racing and Collecting CDs (the CDs are the Saints Row equivalent 
 of hidden packages) . Interestingly enough all these tasks are fun to do and offer a refreshing 
 change when you want to take a break from the games main missions. Of course with having a huge 
 city to play around in you would expect some stores to buy things in and Saints Row does not disappoint 
 in this regard; with burger joints, clothing stores, jewellery shops, hair salons, tattoo parlours, 
 car dealerships, music stores, custom car shops, loan sharks, gun shops, and even plastic surgeons 
 waiting to take your hard earned cash from you. The weaponry available is divided into groups just 
 like GTA. The groups are melee weapons, handguns, shotguns, semi-auto machine guns, sniper and 
 explosives with a selection of three guns available in each class. Each of the gangs in the game 
 seem to have chosen one weapon from each group to specialize in, so depending on which gang you 
 are fighting, expect to see one weapon more than the other for that period of time. Of course weapons 
 are not just available to be picked up from fallen enemies they can also be bought at a local gun-store 
 or even found in hidden places if you snoop around enough. Another nice extra that sets Saints 
 Row apart of the crowd is the inclusion of intuitive map setup that works just like sat-nav. Instead 
 of the game just labelling your next objective as a dot on a map (that can easily be confused with 
 the other dozen dots on the map) it instead marks out the path for you to get to you destination. 
 This set up only works during missions but it is a very welcome, and dare I say it innovative, 
 addition to the genre. A large detailed version of the map can be brought up at anytime via the 
 pause menu. Other options in this menu is the Save/Load feature, an MP3 player (for music on the 
 move from your custom soundtrack!) , and a wireless phone to call people (not just to answer people 
 like GTA) . There is also a huge stats page telling you what you have done with your time in the 
 game. Finally there are also 43 varying achievements to get for those that strive to inflate their 
 Gamerscore with every day that passes. Saints Row also offers online or system link options where 
 two or more players can try out co-op missions and competitive games. Versus mode offer small sections 
 of Stilwater to battle in with game modes titled: Protect the Pimp, Big Ass Chains and Blinged 
 Out Ride. Gamers can also create their own gangs and pit themselves against other online gangs 
 which is a nice touch. Some aspects of the games online mode sadly dont feel as polished as the 
 single player game but they can be fun in quick bursts. As you can see by the screenshots over 
 there on the left there is no denying Saints Row is one pretty looking game, but there is something 
 the screenshots cannot show and that is the enormity of the games playing environment. The game 
 is massive, I am not sure if it matches the size of San Andreas but it is very near it. What makes 
 Saint Row even better is that it has the power of the Xbox360 behind it so it mixes a quantity 
 of locations with high quality graphics. The game also boasts no load times when traversing the 
 city and it lives up to it promise letting you move around without any black screen popping up 
 to pull you out of the experience. In fact the only loads on show are when you go into one of the 
 many missions and they last for 5 seconds. The game also contains a multitude of different effects 
 to make things look that little bit nicer. The most spectacular of these is the games use of shadows 
 which comes into its own during the games night-time cycle where shadows of object and people 
 can be seen bouncing off the environment in real time. Due to the lag-free gaming environment, 
 the game does suffer a few nagging graphical problems  must noticeably the game contains a considerable 
 amount of annoying pop-ups. This is most evident when you get your car revved up to high speed 
 on the interstate. Other small annoyances are some collision detection issues which only reared 
 their head twice during my time with the game. I also noticed a slightly choppy frame rate when 
 I decided to cause the biggest pile up ever, but in normal gameplay things look pretty good. Some 
 of the cut scenes also contain some tearing. Due to the rest of the game looking so nice these 
 flaws really do stand out more than they do in GTA. To be honest the flaws do slightly ruin the 
 overall experience but if you put up with similar flaws while playing Rockstars effort then there 
 is no real game-breaking graphical blemishes on show in Saint Row. Acoustically Saint Row puts 
 up a respectable performance with sound effects, voice work and music all getting a lot of attention 
 from the developers. Lots of big name talent from TV shows and movies have lent their voices to 
 the game with the likes of Michael Clark Duncan, Tia Carrere, Joaquim de Almeida, Keith David, 
 David Carradine, Daniel Day Kim, and Michael Rappaport all having something to say throughout out 
 the games 40 hour lifespan. Easily the most noticeable voice in the game is the great Clancy Brown 
 who uses his naturally boisterous accent to produce great sounding lines that help propel all scenes 
 he is included in to great prominence. As you would expect, the game also supports a number of 
 radio stations that are home to music, talk shows and zany commercials. It covers many genres with 
 hip-hop, classical, electronica, rock, metal, and reggae all getting equal billing so there is 
 always something to listen to. The 'Talk Radio' station that Volition have included is also interesting, 
 although it is no where near as good as GTA's Laslow. If you ever get bored or just dont like 
 the radio station there is also the option to mess about with custom soundtracks. Some people will 
 undoubtedly believe that Volition ripped-off Rockstar with many aspects of Saints Row and honestly 
 there is no getting by the fact that they did but they are the first company to do it correctly. 
 Everything about Saints Row seems to flow perfectly. The game is a blast to play with literally 
 something brand new waiting for you around every corner. Saints Row is a fantastic addition to 
 the new open-ended sandbox genre that has been developing over recent years. Since Rockstar started 
 the ball rolling with GTA III way back in 2001 (has it been that long?) there have been many pretenders 
 to the throne. Mafia, True Crime, The Getaway, The Godfather, new additions to the once great Driver 
 series and even the Simpsons all tried to get in on the act but ended up being pale imitations 
 of what they tried to imitate. Even though Saints Row also rips many aspects from GTA it takes 
 all the right parts and makes them work as good if not better (in places) than Rockstar did. This 
 is the beginning of a great franchise for THQ. If this title sells well (and we see no reason why 
 it wont) there will be Saints Row II and Saints Row III. If they keep up with the quality they 
 brought to us the first game then Rockstar finally has some real competition. Is Saints Row original? 
 No. Is it fun? Youre damn right it is! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imfeelinpanda
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Saits row is a really fun game that will keep u playing for ever. There is so much more in this 
 game then there is in gta. Like u can do anything a real gangster could do it real life. From drug 
 routs to kidnaps this is they game that can make anyone playing for hours. U start on a gang and 
 u work u way to defete 4 rival gangs. then there is so many cheats to make u wana use them and 
 beat the game. the cheats might not be as good as they ones in gta. The grafics are the same in 
 gta but they are really good for 360. i think thq could have done better. still this is sucha good 
 game if u want something really fun to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-0wnage
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Gr8 game just so much to do u just wont get board off killing people... and the the online doesent 
 sound like fun BUT IT IS so that is well worth getting the game for like when u do ranked match 
 u get dollars for winning then u gotta make ur guy differnet by buyign cloths and tattoos and hats....... 
 so thats well worth getting the game for but the story career mode is so much fun and more difficult 
 to all the GTA's so that is well worth getting the game for ifu like to go on to career on GTA... 
 thx for reading if u have anything to ask just send me a message or add me on xbox live me360niall 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: srs_kid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Waints Row is a GTA that came out for the 360. It is very realistic a little more than other GTA. 
 I say this because if your door is open and you wanna hit some people with that door you can plus 
 the door will slam into the car throwing the person in the air. Another thing is if you drive over 
 them head on they will fly like theres no tomarrow. What its about is a guy in a gang filled neighborhood 
 making the 3rd Street Saints go to the top and own stillwater. There are 3 other gangs to go throught 
 Los Carnales, Westside Rollers and lastly Vice kings. Thats all im really going to say so i wont 
 spoil it. The online play wasnt really exciting like i thought it would be but there was a game 
 mode i liked. It was called Bling out Ride. What that is is you have to kill the other team to 
 pick up there money so you get enough money and once you get enough up to lvl 4 you go to a lil 
 marked area and must keep it there for about 30 secs. Another bad thing about it is the lag and 
 matchmaking. This isnt some quick lagg its so bad if u see someone on the other side of the map 
 they will end up in front of you while your dead confused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiZZyNeSS
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  It's a great game to begin with. I like the story and it has alot of memorable characters. I honestly 
 feel that the graphics suited the game well due to the insane explosions and ragdoll physics. I 
 have a few problems though. The glitches tend to show up every now and then, mainly when your driving. 
 When you start to speed, the car disappeared and all that was left was my character and three of 
 my homies. The soud was kinda bleh. The music wasn' really loud like I wanted it to be so everythin 
 else overpowered it. The endin' really pissed me off! That was the worst endin' for a game ever. 
 Above all that, it still is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto formula, started by GTA III, is a formula that is often copied, but after 
 countless GTA clones have been released, one might think that only Rockstar could perfect the formula 
 they created. However, those who hold that opinion have obviously not played Saint's Row. Volition 
 made a bold move by trying to copy the GTA formula, and even bolder trying to beat Rockstar at 
 their own game. But it seems the risk has paid off. Saint's Row takes what made the Grand Theft 
 Auto formula great and takes out (most of) the problems, while fine tuning and improving upon the 
 things that made the GTA series great. The result is a next-gen GTA clone that certainly has beaten 
 Rockstar.
  
  In Saint's Row, you play a nameless, (nearly) mute thug, living in the fictional city of Stilwater. 
 Before you even start the game, you are brought to a character creation menu. The character creation 
 in Saint's Row is very robust, allowing you to change anything from your race and weight, to the 
 shape of your nose and the intensity of your double-chin. When you begin thw game, you watch a 
 cutscene in which you are almost killed during a vicious gunfight between several rival gangs. 
 Looking down the barrel of a gun, moments from death, your character is saved by yet another gang. 
 After bringing you to safety, your saviors tell you that they are part of the 3rd Street Saints, 
 a gang trying desperately to take back the city from the brutal gang wars which have engulfed it.
 
  
  When you are canonized (quite painfully) , you receive your first real mission - clean up The Row. 
 After violently purging the row of the thugs who oppose you, you begin to spread out. As the game 
 progresses, you will be trying to bring down three rival gangs, the Westside Rollerz, Los Carnales, 
 and my favorite, the Vice Kings. Each gang has its own storyline, with the Carnales storyline being 
 the worst (not to say that it's bad) and the Vice Kings storyline being the best by far. Although 
 this game doesn't take itself quite as seriously as the GTA series does, each storyline is compelling 
 enough to keep you engaged.
  
  The dialogue in Saint's Row, although not brilliant, is decent and sometimes very funny. You shouldn't 
 expect monologues worthy of Shakespeare since the cast of characters is comprised mostly of pimps 
 and hos and gangstas and **** It may disappoint some that your character has four lines, but each 
 line is perfectly timed and very funny, the best being the line at the very end of the Vice Kings 
 storyline.
  
  Moving on to audio, we see more of the same. The audio, like the dialogue, is usually fine, and 
 occasionally great. Although many guns don't sound very powerful, the cries from terrified civilians 
 are absolutely hilarious. The explosions also sound spectacular. Most importantly, the radio stations 
 are good. Although much of the rock is new-age whiny bullcrap, the rap is excellent. Ranging from 
 old-school like Wu-Tang to new G-Unit tracks, the rap reservoir is great.
  
  The graphics only add to the technical marvel that is Saint's Row. Character models are somewhat 
 cartoony, but mostly look great. Your character especially is highly detailed and animated, even 
 wincing when in pain. The cars look great, with some effects such as reflecting light adding the 
 marvel. The environments are beautiful, although some occasional errors will cause cars and environments 
 to disappear for a second. This is confusing, but it doesn't really take away from the experience 
 at all. However, the best part of the graphical experience is without question the explosions. 
 Even if this game consisted only of running around with no purpose firing an RPG, it would be insanely 
 addicting. The explosions look great and the Havok engine allows for some seriously impressive 
 debris.
  
  One of the improvements from GTA is Saint's Row's violence. GTA always made me queasy because of 
 the insane amount of blood and gore. Saint's Row is still violent, but it is toned down a bit - 
 more along the lines of realistic, as opposed to completely over the top.
  
  Another (crucial) thing which Saint's Row does better than Grand Theft Auto is the way it handles 
 combat. One of my biggest problems with GTA was the fact that shooting people was neither easy 
 or very satisfying. I usually needed to use the auto-aim to kill people and even then I didn't 
 really see why I was doing it. Saint's Row doesn't use an auto-aim system because it doesn't need 
 to. The aiming reticule is not nearly as sensitive as in GTA, so it is easier to shoot accurately. 
 In addition, the Havok engine causes for some great deaths which have reminded me why I take pleasure 
 in shooting innocents - it's fun.
  
  The main improvement from GTA, however, is simply the game's style. GTA bored me because of the 
 seriousness and lack of pizazz (for lack of a better word) . Saint's Row doesn't take itself seriously 
 - it's a very funny game which sacrifices bores for humor. No complaints here. Saint's Row's style 
 pretty much makes the game. The minigames involve saving hos from evil pimps and hurling yourself 
 in front of cars to gain money using insurance fraud. They're all very entertaining and often quite 
 funny.
  
  In addition, the amount of customization is astounding. The amount of clothes you can wear is mind-boggling 
 and after purchasing some downloadable content, the numbers only increase. Clothes range from basic 
 thug dress, to business clothing, to a complete pimpsuit (complete with two-in-one pimp cane and 
 shotgun) . In addition, you can customize your character with piercings, chains, necklaces, medallions, 
 pendants, rings, watches, bracelets, different hairstyles, and even a new face (for a great price 
 at your local plastic surgeon) .
  
  You can buy cars ranging from Lamborghinis to Bentleys (of course they have different names) and 
 add them to your garage (s) . You can unlock new cribs at the end of each mission. You can buy all 
 sorts of burgers with names referencing sex at Freckle Bitch's. You can do pretty much anything, 
 and most of it is funny or supremely entertaining... or both.
  
  The bottom line is this: Saint's Row surpasses Grand Theft Auto not only because of next-gen graphics 
 and great audio, but because of the attitude. Saint's Row is endlessly entertaining because it 
 is light-hearted and funny, in a violent, sickening sort of way. It's a game you play to kill bitches 
 and have a few laughs along the way. I would recommend it to anyone who enjoyed the Grand Theft 
 Auto games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playstation3woo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  so my opinion is buy it its **** the best for **** u **** bstards go fuck a dog u **** cuz im playin 
 the game so go **** yo pants fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck fuck m m m m m m m mm mjghuefyhgurg h fhgjdfhgjdfhgdf 
 hjd d jf hkjdhgf dh jfjdh dfjg dfjh jfdjhg dhgjd hgjd hg jdh ueyr utr jfh grehhjfjtgf hf fhj kdhkjh 
 uy yu uy uy uyudf jk jir4jtfg dfg h fhg ufgr ugru iguriguirgjfi gjijigf ugif ugfjgk fjgkfj gjf 
 kjfg jkjf gjdejgire igjie gei jtr gjhidu uirigrie o ieuoiug eoui er r euiu rerou iuou uiorekjg 
 ie reui iuireu iejfu reiug jkjkeh reiuieuroiuwejkjv n ru uhjfh ghurjh urhkji ng irjr ns ab uimir 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hatcher146
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is good... but i can't wait till GTA: IV comes out... that game will be good! This game 
 is pretty good.... the graphics in my opinion are not at their fullest... they could have definently 
 been better! The shooting is not the best... but the free roaming and how much fun you can have 
 in the game is endless! Definently buy this game if your a GTA fan.... it will hold you until IV 
 comes out! Saints row is just o. k. The online multiplayer is o. k. The levels aren't that good... they 
 are small. But its good 7/10! I wish the police in this game were more agressive.... they are just 
 kinda their... and i got to level 5 or w/e the highest was... and i wasn't all that impressed. GTA 
 HURRY UPPPP october is too far away! AT least give us a screen shot!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davefleet
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row is one of those games that keeps getting better the longer you play it. The further 
 through you get, the more into the missions you get, the more cars you unlock and the more excited 
 you get about the next plot twist. Trouble is, this game has possibly the most disappointing ending 
 of any game I've ever played. It's sudden, with no warning, and in my opinion completely detracts 
 from the open-ended nature of the game. That said, Saint's Row is a blast up until that point. 
 The graphics look great, the gameplay, while a little close to GTA for comfort, is great, and generally 
 the game is a blast. Unfortunately, with an ending like this, I can't give it anything above an 
 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  For those of you who haven't played Saints Row and enjoyed playing GTA or would just enjoy blowing 
 things up, gang wars, explosions, becoming a pimp. This is a good game for you. Now the game focus's 
 around a thing called Rep short for Reputation. You get Rep / Respect by doing various side missions, 
 like stealing hoes from pimps in other gangs, or blowing up anything you see, to becoming a hit-man, 
 you can even throw yourself at cars to earn money and respect. Personally I don't see how insurance 
 fraud helps you gain respect but that's ok. So what do you do with this rep well its simple once 
 you get a full bar of rep you can do 1 mission. Get another full bar, another mission etc. Now 
 this can become a bit tedious when your into the hype of the game and want to finish it and save 
 the missions for later. I see now that without having to do the side missions, the game might have 
 been a bit short, and the player might not have visited all the features of the game. Well, Saint's 
 Row is a great game, I'd suggest it. If your looking to get a lot of achievement points, then you 
 better be ready to spend quite a bit of time to get the good ones. You can customize your player, 
 unlike in GTA you can choose your heritage (color of skin) and how you look. Another positive to 
 the game is that there are a lot of different clothes you can buy, you can even look like a pimp. 
 So in a wrap Saints Row is a fun game, it gives you your 20 hours worth if your into it. Good Game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outlaw-X13
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:53 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a game with gta style gameplay, but in saints row you make yourself and the cars 
 you drive with full on customization between the parts of your face to the type of chrome on your 
 vehicles rims, the options are endless.
  In Saints Row you are rescued by a small gang called the saints, they make and offer to join to 
 saints, if you do this you will taken thru a story mode. Saints row has a mass collection of weapons 
 at your disposal from a 9mm to an RPG, the fun doesent stop there, you can also start holdup's 
 and break into store after hours and steal from them. There are 3 other gangs in saints row other 
 than the Saints, Theres the Vice Kings Carnales and the West Side Rollers . You fight with them 
 all though out the Story. Get Saints row and play to find out more. This game will last you a LONG 
 time.
  
  OLX13. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I had not expected this game to be so good being that it is a GTA rip off .The game is really great 
 it is inovative and very well done. Lets start with the side quest in GTA the side quest were always 
 the same to me the same taxi driver, firefighter, paramedic and so on but saints row has really cool 
 side quest like hijacking, insurance fraud were you go around collecting money by hurting your self, or 
 snatch were you go around stealing Ho's from there pimps. The story is really broken up in to three 
 parts you have to take out each rival gang The Vice Kings, The Los Carnales, and the West side rollerz.. Also 
 there are online games to play like protect the pimp and many others. Thats the good part The bad 
 is that after all of this it gets kind of boring and there is much to be desired. So if you are 
 looking for a good alternative to GTA this is it but don't expect to get a whole lot out of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushycookie800
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 25, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Saints Row for the XBOX 360 is just a fun game. It copies the GTA franchise in many ways but overall 
 it is nowhere as good. Although it is much better than San Andres if you dont care for missions 
 and you like to just get as many stars as you can. Both sections of the city are open as soon as 
 you start the game. So unlike San Andres you will not have to play several hours into the storymode 
 to be able to open all the areas and go to all the stores.
  
  Here is how I broke down the scores:
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Saints Rows gameplay pritty good. 
 There are nearly no load times when you walk into a store or other building. Occational there is 
 a quick pause here and there when you are driving to the cars limit but if you are running or not 
 speeding to much then you will never see a loading point. While drving in your car or running around 
 the camera angles often get very confusing and sloppy. You may often find yourself driving and 
 not knowing where you are going because the camera changed while you turned that sharp corner.
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The gameplay graphics in Saints Row are respectable but once you get into the cut scenes the graphics 
 get terrible. Little effort obviously went into the cut scenes, and it shows. While driving in 
 you car though the graphics seem alright though
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The music in Saints Row is excellent. Like in San Andres there are plenty of radio stations to 
 choose from that play all kinds of music from Hip Hop to Rock to Classical. There is also a custom 
 playlist ability. If you belive that the music in Saints Row isn't your style then you can make 
 your own song playlist. The only problems with the sound are some of the guns and cars, although 
 the vast majority of the sounds are great there are a selective few that sound terrible.
  
  Value: 7/10
  The game is excellent overall and very addictive but the game often feels repetative. 
 Shoot guys a whole bunch of guys, find or shoot something, shoot more guys, then run away. After 
 36 missions like that it starts to get boring. The single player campaign has little replay value 
 bet the storyline is solid. There is also an online feature that is definatly below par, imagine 
 GTA: San Andres online, just horrible. I definatly would not recomend the multiplayer for Saints 
 Row.
  
  Tilt: 8/0
  Saints Row is a pritty fun game but it could definatly get better. Driving around punching guys 
 and starting gang wars with the enemy gangs yourself and a few henchmen never gets boring. The 
 single player storymode is pritty good once you play through it once but after that it just gets 
 boring.
  
  Saints Row is your standard GTA: Style game. I would recommend renting it or borrowing it from 
 a friend first though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imanimmigrant
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row has Great gameplay, Amazing Graphics and unbelievable sound such as the explosions which 
 must be seen to believe and i think you'd agree that GTA didn't really have great explosions. There 
 are lots of new features like the mobile phone which you can call nearly every phone number you 
 can find on the street such as the Ambulance (911) to even a taxi. On Saints Row you can a huge 
 number of activities From street racing to insurance fraud and even hostage situations in cars.
 
  The wide range of clothing, jewellery and hair styles your Caucasian, African American, Asian or 
 Hispanic character can wear are outstanding and together with the graphics of the Xbox 360 your 
 character will look great But your character isn't the only thing that can be customized to your 
 liking, so will your cars. Just take any car to a garage and you will be able to customize them 
 with hundreds of options and when your done just take it to your crib, park it in your garage and 
 it'll be there forever, all you have to do is retrieve it. The story modes are always separated 
 into the four main gangs and you can choose which gang you would like to face first and which you 
 will leave for last to make the 3rd street saints rule stilwater. There are also heaps of stores 
 where you can buy Guns, drugs, alcohol, Food, cars, jewellery, clothing, tatoos and you can style 
 you hair.
  
  Saints Row is an amazing game which is a must own for any RPG or open ended world lover with an 
 ending that will leave you guessing for months 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manbot_AMP
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Pros: A lot of activities to complete including hitman, hijack and insurance frode. Very intriging 
 story line. A city full of life , with shops closing and people going to work. New facilities like 
 phone and MP3 player. Very hard to complete fully. Ability to make own character.
  
  Cons: no bikes or airplanes, few gameplay and graphic glitches.
  
  Saints Row isn't an ordinary 
 open ended game like the GTA series, yes it might be similar with wide sexual reference, drugs 
 reference and the ability to kill everybody you see, but deap down it has brought a new way to 
 play and open ended game for the next generation. Now the difference can be noticed from the start 
 not only are the graphics way better then GTA, but the player is finaly able to creat it's own 
 character, from an Asian to a spaniard to a negro and to the ordinary white. The game starts with 
 you're survival after a bloodsheding gang war, Julies the leader of the Saints takes you under 
 his wing asking for you're help to re-take the hood 
  
  after that its all up to you what mission's to start and what gang to take down first. Another 
 difference from GTA is that the player needs to gain respect before he can undertake a mission, 
 this is done by completing activites, ranging fro hos snatching to assassinations to hijaking and 
 even the never seen before insurence fraud.
  
  The player starts with a basic set of clothes and it's up to you to best fit all the different 
 variety of clothes to make a perfect fit, adding purple in you're outfit will gain you respect 
 bonuses, the more purple the more bonus. The player can also buy jewlery, new haicuts, food and 
 drugs, which has no effect beside making the screen blury. the day is dividen between day and night. 
 during the night the player can decide to rob stores for some extra cash or weapons.
  
  If you have played any of the GTA games and enjoyed it this game is a must buy for you. you will 
 discover a whole new way to play open ended games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wagalang
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  They should have made this game way better by making the story mode longer, More Features :
  Pitbulls and Dogs for the gangs and people on roads.
  Shops as Kebab, Mcdonalds, Burger king.
 
  Skateboards, roller blades, more Clothes, Balaclavas, Face Masks.
  Real Cars like Bmw, Golf Gti, Mercedes, Vauxhall and more Modify shops, over 100 bodykits. rims, 
 neons.
  True like car Handling and damage.
  Weather Change including snow. more access to buildings, Rob houses and people.
  Recruit gang 
 members up to 10 people with you and when you jump in a vehicle your gang members steal a car so 
 they all get in and follow you around....
  Many more activities. Gyms.
  I think they rushed this game, if they spent more time on it the game would have been fantastic. 
 i think they should make saints row 2 with these kind of ideas!! It would wipe out GTA and the 
 makes would turn in to millionaires! lol =D My Gamertag is OdotN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistacoon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  This game takes GTA and does everything right. with better graphics, better gameplay, and better 
 story with amazing envirements this is not Grand Theft Auto ripoff. GTA should learn a lesson from 
 Saints Row about how to make the perfect free roam car jacking gang territory gun fighting game. 
 And with another game coming out taking the GTA experience, CRACKDOWN, we may be seeing the end 
 to the Grand Theft Auto series. But until the next GTA game comes out we wont know for sure. but 
 im pretty sure Saints Row has given GTA a good hint as to what they need to do to improve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miled621
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  i have saints row it is awesome, great guns, betta cars and more customizin then gta 1 weird thing 
 i noticed was that when drivin on a highway at speeed and hit a oncoming car evn an 18 wheeler 
 they go flyin delivering substantial damage to your car.
  but, i love the fact u can do drugs, and also that it is all open from the begining, no hurricane 
 warning from gta (barriers to stop u from goin to other cities) the only thing i dont like is no 
 boats or planes there r 3 main gangs the carnles, westside rollerz, and the vice kings,
  the vice kings are medium, the westside rollerz r eay, but the carnales are crazy, they might have 
 an RPG or ak 47 or some crazy gun like that, i suggest startin with the vice kings, there helpful 
 in learnin how the game is mentally
  gd BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisfles666
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  In Saint's Row you start off by creating you're own character, lot's of options so you can go nuts 
 with it :p.
  As soon as you finish creating your character, a cut scene begins. You're character is walking 
 down the streets and is about too face daily business in Stilwater... The Vice Kings are tagging 
 a spot from the Rollerz and they run in to each other, blood start's flying and while their beating 
 each other up the Carnales drive by with an Ak-47 :) . You end up on the ground with a gun pointed 
 at you're head and are just saved in time by the Saint's, the leader julius make's you and offer 
 you can't refuse... and so the game begins.
  
  The game play in Saint's Row is very similar to the GTA-series, you can just steal cars, kill pedestrians, do 
 main missions and side missions... The main missions you do depend on the gang you are currently 
 stuck with: the Vice Kings, the Rollerz and the Carnales. The side missions involve: playing a 
 hitman, hijacking vehicles, stealing girls from the pimps... you also need too do side missions too 
 earn respect, so you can continue to play the main story. You can also raise your respect by buying 
 better and expensive clothing.
  
  Graphics and sound perfectly fit this kind of game, not too flashy but very nice and kind of simple 
 style. The sound and music in the game are very good, allot of radio stations and nice weapon sounds. 
 The noises the cars make all fit too the cars that they where chosen for.
  
  As for the story, it's better then you may think it is :) . If you follow it close enough from the 
 beginning, you will find out that it's been nicely figured out. Sudden twists and betrayal are 
 all part of the story. The achievements points for Saint's Row are well chosen and most are unlocked 
 by finishing the main story and side missions, and are fun to complete.
  
  Conclusion: Saint's Row turns out to be one hell of a good and fun game that stays fun to play, 
 even after you finish it because of the free roaming aspect. GTA clone or not, it's definatley 
 worth purchasing and belongs to the top list of Xbox 360 games at the moment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefConcept
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  Saints Row like a fixed up version of Sanandreas. Not to put GTA down or anything but it was all-in-all 
 better; This is becuase SR was made on the 360 anf GTAS was made on the later PS2 and XBOX 180. 
 The game could have been a little bit cleaner when it comes toward language. You would walk around 
 and hear random people swearing from left to right. The talk show on the radio was funny as hell 
 tho, somethimes I would just listen to those to talk and put my controller down.
  
  The GAMEPLAY is alot more fexible than GTA. He can shoot guns while running for cover which in 
 GTA he would mostly be in a stand still or walking back to slow for my taste. A nice touch was 
 holding on to your (B) botton and quickly searching threw your weapons. That sped things up for 
 me.
  
  The GRAPHICS arn't the best on the market but for a game where half the people you meet end up 
 dead the graphics they have will do.
  
  The SOUND is basically what you would inspect. I do like the voice overs tho. They sounded genuine 
 to the situation that they where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trackez
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Saints Row don't come with something new in video games .... It's mostly a copy of Grand Theft 
 Auto, but it's more linear...
  
  The gameplay is good, your caracter is easy to play with, and missions are relatively Easy. Something 
 cool is more you play missions and sideline missions , and more friends you can recruit in your 
 gang to play with ( They follow you where you go ) . Graphics are not too bad but with big bugs... 
 Graphics cool be better, dosen't look like XBOX 360.
  
  The sounds is good with good soundtrack, nothing to say here.
  
  Online play is awsome, that's 
 where the game took me for days. You have Deathmatch, that's not something new, but you Chain, 
 a PIMP game, a Bling out car game... Mostly you are in team , and you can create a gang online.
 
  
  Well, I could say, rent it before buy it, especially if you don't wan't to play online, cause the 
 game is relatively short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danm_999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Fairly standardised missions; mainly involving driving or shooting, yet plays on the variation 
 just enough not to make them stale. Of course, there is certainly room for improvement. Uses some 
 features, like the audio player and HUD assistance, which evolve the genre quite competantly, but 
 most of it's GTA imitation lets it fall inferior.
  
  Great graphics, models and physics engine. Truly a pleasure to cruise through the streets of Stillwater, 
 and to simply blow things up.
  
  Hit and miss with radio songs and humour. Voice acting is competant in most sections, and ties 
 together in (considering the opening) a surprisingly good plot.
  
  Good value, as the game and associated mini-games will last around 30 hours. Online adds to this 
 slightly, although not fully formed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XL70
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  When I first saw the initial gameplay trailer of Saints Row, I had one word (or grunt) in my mind: 
 Meh. The focus on gangs in the trailers led me to believe it was going to be just another crap 
 GTA knock-off.
  
  How wrong could I be? I played the demo on the OXM demo disc and I really enjoyed it, although 
 I still wasn't interested in actually buying it (I was playing Oblivion and Dead Rising at the 
 time) and it was only when PC World put a special offer on Saints Row - an offer I couldn't refuse 
 - that led me to buy it.
  
  The easiest way to describe Saints Row is Grand Theft Auto , because it is absolutely intended 
 to be a homage/rip-off/clone of Grand Theft Auto. Although GTA-clones in the past haven't been 
 great, this one actually does some things better than GTA - such as character creation and customisation, 
 vehicle modification, FPS-like manual weapon aiming. There are also some things that it doesn't 
 do that were previously in GTA, such as motorbikes, boats and planes. However, when you are playing 
 Saints Row, you will quickly realise that none of those things are important - it's good enough 
 without them.
  
  I've now got 100% completion on the single-player game and it took 85 hours of gameplay to get 
 there. The majority of the missions are pretty straightforward and you should be able to finish 
 them within relatively few attempts. The last few missions in the gang storylines are much tougher 
 and will take repeated attempts to complete, where practice is needed.
  
  If you love GTA, you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok I just bought this game.. I had first played the demo, because I just heard that this game was 
 an open world game.. I was like OMG really I must play it, and so I played it and thought that 
 this was a unique game for this console and sure enough a week later I purchase the game and started 
 my online and and offline experience on this spectacular game.. I only had this game for 2 days, 
 and I have about at least 10 hours of gameplay to date... but this is an awesome game I mean you 
 cant just try it out if you like games like Grand Theft Auto and Action games. this is with out 
 a doubt a the game for you, there are just SOOOO many things you can do on this game it will make 
 your head spin, online and off is just an awesome experience and you will have an excellent time 
 with this game has cool graphics, addictive gameplay, and a fast learning curve... perfect for 
 any game with an xbox360 You have the most fun you have had in a while on a action game with more 
 than enough things to do to keep you busy for months for sure I know I like this game greatly definitely 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cabooserckr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is the latest Grand Theft Auto rip-off, but this game is actually good! Saint's Row 
 has tons of possibilities and will keep you occupied for some time. It even has Multiplayer which 
 is very hard when you're first starting, but it grows on you. The game is insanely hard when it 
 comes to Activities and you will scream at your TV. Saint's Row overall is a very great game, but 
 it doesn't include any sort of helicopter or airplane to control which made the game kind of broken 
 for me. There are many weapons available at your disposal and there's always something new going 
 on in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lmneozoo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Another Rip off of grand theft auto, but htis one does not suck., in fact this one has done it 
 better than the original free roaming game. The game play is great you have to get respect by doing 
 variuse activities that range from assinating people to cheating your insurence company. You can 
 start hostage situations, or rob a drug store. You can recruit your fellow ganstas to help you 
 in the fight against the po po. The game is pretty much gang war after gang war till you take over 
 the whole island. The graphics are decent though gears has them beat by along way, but the world 
 in this game is far bigger and they had to, i would think turn the graphics down to fit the game 
 on the disc. The sound is alright but i wish you could hear fire fights in the far distance, which 
 so far i have only seen in rainbow six vegas. There is alot or value becasue there are countless 
 missions and activities you can do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Finally a game where I can create me.. And then raise hell. Finally I can store multiple cars in 
 one garage! Finally, wearing clothes mean something and comestics work.
  
  Why to play this game, because GTA 4 is not out yet and this is as close to GTA as it gets without 
 being cheese. It feels like GTA but plays like Saints row. Good game all in and fun mission, unloackable 
 achievments. If you like this sort of thing it should not be difficult to understand why it is 
 so addictive. I owunt complain one bit about anything, Love the car models, the sexy girls , game 
 looks great in HD. Whse complainin pick it up or dont, either way when 2 comes out you will wonder 
 why you never got 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob3nelson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Every bit as good as GTA. For the most part, runs very smoothly on the XBox 360, except when there's 
 a lot on the screen at once. Then, things slow down quite a bit. This can be a bit irritating, 
 especially during races when slow frame rates can make it difficult to know excactly where you 
 are at a particular moment in time. Also, draw distance sometimes leaves something to be desired.
 
  
  The overall game mechanics are excellent. Control is much better than any GTA game. Shooting things 
 becomes a joy, not a pain as it is in GTA. The only suggestion I would make is when driving in 
 cars, you always have to reorient you're view with the right stick. An option to have this done 
 automatically would have been nice. I also think a first-person viewpoint while on foot would have 
 been nice. Overall, though, camer angles are excellent for a third-person game and never an issue.
 
  
  Besides all the afore-mentioned issues, gameplay tends to become repetitive and I wish there were 
 even more things to do and places to explore. Other than all this, this game is excellent and I 
 look forward to sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmatt253
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Now every one knows the first thing you think when you see dis game grand theft auto of core but 
 this game is more broken than the other company's games that have tried to copy Grand theft auto 
 this game starts off with a boring story line has stupid missions and the game play is the exact 
 same is Grand Theft Auto theres stars like GTA So this game is not worsth $120 (AUS) dollars you 
 can just but Grand theft auto sanAndreas on Xbox and play it on 360 or but gradt theft auto IV 
 comming out in october 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asassinmario
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  You start out designing your own character , his skin , eyes , brows , hair , ears , and mouth. 
 Unfortanately you can't change his clothes when making him but in gameplay you can if you can find 
 a clothes store. In the beginning you are walking and the blue gang ( rollers ) is spray painting 
 over the yellow gang's ( kings ) signature on the wall when the kings run in and start beating 
 them up and they are in a fight then a red car pulls up with some red gang members ( carnoles ) 
 and they get in the fight. They all kill each other but one king member comes towards you with a 
 gun and says wrong place wrong time then you hear a gun shot and the saints row gang saves you. 
 Then you begin the game.............. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darreo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game off an on for the past 3 months and it never gets boring. I thought 
 that after playing the sampler that it would be a walk in the park and that I had the whole game 
 down. Man was I wrong. Ive been playing mission after mission and not really denting the game 
 progress at all. I mean I do my part but it seems that my $60 bucks went to a very good investment. 
 Im not one of those people that have time to sit and play a game for 14 or 15 hours straight &amp; 
 by the end of the first week a game is out then saying it was weak. Im the type to spend an hour 
 a day playing thru 2 maybe three missions till the game is done, fully enjoying my well spent money. 
 And with saints I think that I will have a lot of time to realize how good the game is just from 
 the shear size of its contents. Graphics are great, the sound is amazing. The effects of a well 
 placed pipe bomb never fail to amaze me, like a 5year old kid seeing their first real fireworks 
 show. The game play is classic (theft style play) , and the missions vary. I love the fact you 
 can rob, do insurance fraud, smuggle, assassinate and just plain do jobs for people. Its kinda 
 like a movie Im staring in. great game hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ic0fm3d00
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is the perfect opportunity for everyone to let out their inner gangster. Always wanted 
 to kick an old lady and steal her money? Always wanted to steal and car and then murder the owner 
 of the car? S. R lets you do this! It really is great, and to anyone who automatically mutters 'GTA 
 Copy' then they obviously ain't played the game! THe missions alone keep you entertained for hours 
 on end, and it comes with various side missions, or 'Activities' as they are called on the game, 
 which involve Insurance Fraud (chucking yourself in front of cars to earn money) Snatch (stealing 
 hoes off other pimps) and other great ones!!
  
  It never fails to deliver, and it is worth every last penny!!! There isn't really anymore to say, 
 other than if you don't already own the game, then i recommend that you do!!!!
  
  GREG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funinsd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Great game! love the graphics, sound just about everything with it. Its very much like the Godfather 
 game more then GTA. You can have henchmen follow you, you have your own turf . . . .and while the 
 sidemoney missions can feel a little repetitive you get good extra rewards when you completely 
 finish one. Sound is great, while the in-game music can get repetitive i still like the voices 
 of the characters and the pedestrians. The mini-movies are entertaining as well. Character customization 
 is alot of fun too, want tats? no problem. pierceings? sure, why not. only bad thing bad thing 
 i can say is that sometimes the sidemissions get so out of control it can become near impossible 
 to reach the last level on one. but, if you prepare enough and save beforehand you should be okay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  "Checkity Check it foo's, for all ya'll playa haters out there i present to you Saints Row baby 
 Chicka Yeh" - Says a member of saints row... if you talk like that in England you will probably 
 be **** slapped in the face and told to go eat some poo cookies. Saint's row is another urban chaos, 
 free roaming, sandbox game (Like there isnt enough already) which has been heavily compared to 
 the GTA series. Saints Row is vitaly different in some way and is more as i mention Gangsta' than 
 gangster. Saint's row takes the slang of the streets of Stilwater and starts its huge urban killing 
 spree as 3 rival gangs are brought into a turf war. You end up getting caught in the crossfire 
 and end up proving yourself to the saints that you yourself could be a worth advesary. The gameplay 
 is repetative but many things were introduced to keep you going if you wanted to play to the end. 
 You would have to participate in side missions, basically mini-games, in order to do the main missions. 
 By doing the side missions you earned respect, you had to have built up enough respect before doing 
 the main story. Most of the main missions consist of either, taking over turf, participating in 
 a push back (Defending your turf) , races, killing a certain group of people or blowing something 
 up. Alot of the missions consisted of NPC driving which was terrible since the NPC's AI meant instead 
 of driving normally on a road they went speeding into a wall (This is bad since if the vehicle 
 is to be protected and has a health meter it was usually destroyed by the NPC's bad driving) . The 
 game itself did have many fun things to do, also due to its marvellous physics engine (courtesy 
 of Havok) . You could walk into most stores and rob the place of what it had just by sticking a 
 gun in the store owners face. There were ways to also pull of successful heists... but always ended 
 up in trouble since you would always take the subtle way in my kicking the front door down. Much 
 of the game is glitchy and buggy, such as when driving on some motorways (Highways) the floor beneath 
 you would dissapear and reappear, the towns would flash from invisible to visible. Sometimes your 
 car as you were driving would dissapear and you would look like an absolute turd sitting in mid 
 air with one hand on the stearing wheel and one hand on your cock Sometimes the game would also 
 mysteriously crash for no apparant reason. I am aware the game is one of the first to be realeased 
 on the 360 but that is no excuse for its buggyness since games like Perfect Dark worked like a 
 dream. The soundtrack makes up for the buggyness since it is one of the most impressive soundtracks 
 i have heard for a while in games, the urban beats of heavy guitar riffs suit the look of your 
 character and whats happening in the game. If you jump out of your car whilst listening to the 
 radio the radio still plays inside the car, so as you approach it you can hear the muffled tune 
 from the inside, these small features make games more likeable. Customisation is the other big 
 thing with this game since this makes it impressive also, unlike GTA you could make your character 
 basically from scratch giving him either an afro, making him asian, giving him a big hobo beard 
 you name it you could give it to him (Not being sexist you can only be a bloke) . You can customise 
 your clothing right down to your underwear, make it whatever colour you want and change even the 
 smallest things like the position of your cap or wether one trouser leg should be higher up than 
 the other one.
  
  There is one las thing and the one thing i disliked and thats the multiplayer. Multiplayer seems 
 to have recently become one of the most competative things you can do on the planet. Many people 
 on there are wanna be gangsta's who cant tell their arse from there elbow... but since i checked 
 recently hardly many people play Saint's Row online. Overall- a very good game, decent graphics, 
 good but repetative gameplay but nothing to be ashamed of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFeelgoodsTwin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This Saints Row, has so many people thinking that its one more GTA. Yes and no. The yes is you 
 in gang, and you kill people in a city, jack cars, use drugs save Ho's. BUt the no is, holding 
 up stores and making them crakc safe's. You can crack safes. More Types of outer story line missions. 
 Like Dealing drugs for a Socer Mom. When you run over paring meters and can pick up the change 
 that comes out. When you blow up a Armor Car from the back. You can pick up the cash from the back 
 and it is around 7-8 grand in the back of those trucks. More focused Story line with getting to 
 know the other gangs and you friends. Having a safe house with wepon carts in side so if you run 
 out of ammo you can pick some more up. Like if you unlock a gun you can pick it up in you house 
 and fill up on ammo. If you beat the game up to 100% you can have rockets, Pimp Cane which is a 
 shot gun formed into a pimp cane, M4's nades, Pipe bombs, Pistols, Teck 9's and alot more. Have 
 a Garage where you can hold up to any ammount of cars you want in there. When you nlock safe houses 
 you can park a car in one of them and pull that some car from a diff one. Upgrading cars in so 
 many more ways. and the game remembers every thing you do, so you can look at your single player 
 stats and see how many people you have killed, ran over. How many light posts ran over. Hours spent 
 on the game. and alot more then just that. Very addictive and exciting. Has online mulitplayer, 
 and online co-op. 6 types of gaming. I could go on braging about how cool this game is but i have 
 all ready spent enough time on this where you know you should go buy the game. if more qustion 
 you can contact me any time. Pece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is the most blatant GTA rip I have ever played. Throughout the whole game you get a 
 feeling of deja vu, a feeling of recognition. The graphics are similar (although better) , the storyline 
 is similar, the style, the gameplay and even the sound. All of these elements have taken more than 
 just a page from Grand Theft Auto's now famous book. However, despite the game practically being 
 a complete steal of a bigger and better genre, it doesnt feel like a cheap rip-off like other GTA 
 clones I have played in the past (True Crime, Driver 3 etc) . Saints Row has its own sparkle that 
 lets it out stand out and survive on its own. For a start, Saints Row's stolen elements are all 
 done well; the driving is fun and easy to grip, the shooting is meaty and enjoyable and the interface, 
 such as saving, is improved upon from GTA's awkward, frustrating save system (travelling all the 
 way back to a hideout to save? Saints Row ditches this and lets you save from the menu at any time) . 
 Aswell as these stolen elements, Saints Row adds its own great gameplay additions, such as an in 
 depth online mode which includes making your own gangs and playing specially made co-op levels. 
 A physics engine has also been included, making exploding cars look fantastic and rag doll bodies 
 hilarious. Saints Row has also realised that celebrity voices and good voice acting can make a 
 game much more enjoyable, and so have got people like David Carradine, Michael Clark Duncan and 
 Mila Kunis to speak for main characters throughout the game. The length of the game is quite comendable 
 with a lot of story missions to complete (takes about 6-8 hours) and hundreds of side missions 
 to get on with (insurance fraud is hilarious and one of Saints Row's only original aspects) aswell 
 as collectables and tough achievements. I have a couple problems with Saints Row other than its 
 unoriginality. Firstly, the graphics are simply... average. The style of the game is very similar 
 to GTA and not much of the game looks any different to San Andreas on the PS2 (hardly next-gen) . 
 The explosions look amazing, and there are some beatiful moments within the game, but most of the 
 time I was unimpressed. The characters animation in-game is also awful. Although the amount of 
 music on offer on the radio stations is impressive, most of it is tosh. Whiney American emo bands 
 on one station, gangsta idiots calling eachother the N word on the other. The Reggae station was 
 quite good, as was the drum n bass, but most of it was more annoying than atmosphere-setting. There 
 are also some incredibly frustrating moments within the game where you lose because of the games 
 own flaws or its incredibly unforgiving nature, bringing me close to throwing my controller at 
 the wall. At the end of the day, Saints Row succeeds in being a damn fine GTA clone. I find it 
 funny how the most unoriginal of the bunch is also the most enjoyable; I think this shows how great 
 GTA really is. The Good - A lot to do - Takes most things thats good about GTA and comepletly copies 
 them - Nice explosions - Insurance fraud is genius
  
  The Bad - Graphics are lame - Unoriginal - Once the missions are over, its pretty disposable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch4892
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  I got this game on release and have never put it down since. This game online kicks ass if you 
 get a good gang that thinks before it acts then your bound to enjoy it. You start out as a low 
 life a get saved by the leader of The Saints (things are looking up) you have to show the gang 
 that your good enough so kill a few members of the other gangs and there you go. It all unfolds 
 from there. There are loads of different activities to do my favourite is insurance fraud because 
 i am obsessed with good physics in games. I think this uses rag doll physics so you will find people 
 never die in the same way. And with loads of Easter eggs to find you will be playing for ages. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinKuei_warrior
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row, Saints Row, what am i gona say about you? you were in a heavy comparison to that of Grand 
 Theft Auto San Andreas, But if u asked me u are not a complete copy of san andreas!!!
  
  Saints Row is not just a knock off, it has enough things to make it different from San Andreas! One 
 thing is that you can create a hero instead of playing as one!!! and if that wasnt enough, customization 
 gets its name here!! every part of the face is customizable!! along with weight, skin color and hair. The 
 Third street saints may not be grove street, but they definetly have some recognition!!
  
  Clothes, hair, and other accessories Have soo many options! from Leather jackets to Cool looking 
 sweaters. From wife beaters to football jersey. hair has a handful of options too, not to mention 
 colored hairs. Blinging out is an option. not feelin silver or gold? GO PLATINUM!
  
  Cars in this game arent good, but they arent horrible. customizing them is always fun cuz of the 
 many color schemes. theres some really nice stuff to hook ur car up with like spinners, tinted windows, head 
 and rear lights, and much more make that pimp my ride game look like a joke.
  
  Theres soo many ways to make money. insurance fraud is the most fun way to make money. Watching ur 
 character go flying when being hit by car is just a site to see. u can do other stuff like street 
 racing, escort services, STR8 PIMPIN, Stealing stuff from stores, taking cars to chop shops, causing 
 mayhem and other cool activity!!!!!!!! another thing you can do for quick bank is the thing u couldnt 
 do in San Andreas; RoB STORES, but sometimes things dont go your way and they sound the alarm, but 
 still its worth a try right?
  
  the Only bad thing about the game is the ending. why do i say that? all the better reason for u to 
 play.. to find out &gt;=)
  
  This game may look like a knock of of san andreas, but trust me, Theres too much in this game that 
 makes it a game of its own. dont let anyone tellu that its just a rip off of GTA san andreas cuz 
 its not true. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_47_needle
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  K ... De game was pretty cool .... Dis game is like a GTA ... and it got a many things to do ... 
 u can drinking ... eating ... etc ... De game play was a pretty good ... but a stance tht u r shooting 
 to sym1 ... And it looked kinda crap ... Sry i didnt like a stance tht he is standing ... And de 
 running was a stupid too ... I just liked de graphics and de sounds tht de pplz are talkin ... 
 and i am really liked to do as a gon sym shopping ... oh yea ... And story was a cool ... And de 
 crap thing is a respect ... i am really boring to do sym activity ... it is a kinda like **** ... 
 and i need to raise my respect to play another mission ... it is a job tht crazy men's to do ... 
 I always to do as a hostage a sym1 and doing a thief, protect a hood eventually push back ... it 
 is a crazy ... and if u r gon to buy dis game ... it is just cool ... superb .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kev_graw
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  The game its self is good but it is pretty hard to complete plus they don't always swear when you 
 walk don the street like they do on GTASA which really does suck plus they don't have lame cut 
 scenes plus the story line makes sense which is good the activities keeps the excitement going 
 by making unlocks at the end of the activities but the respect needed for missions is hard to earn 
 but that makes a game more fun so i suppose that is a postive review the few negative points are 
 the glitches with the car bonnet entry think and if the game freezes up which i find it does a 
 few times in my opinion the game is great so its completely upto you let me know what you think. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 11, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that will kick Grand theft auto down to the ground and beg for mercy, this is 
 what Grand theft auto should have been, but didn't bother to be.
  
  Gameplay wise, its GREAT, there are so many side activities that you disembark on that are alot 
 of fun and challeging at the same time, but some activities are a bit hard at telling you what 
 to do, on some though.
  
  Graphics are good for a game of this type, no load times are nice to have, and the framerate holds 
 up nicely, the great aspect abojt tbe game is the ragdoll physics, they were over done, because 
 it send people up into the air 50 feet, but it doens't matter because it can be very funny at times.
 
  
  The sound is pretty good, the weapon effects are alot better then in previous Grand theft auto 
 games, it has the sound that I wanted out of the Series, and Volition really hit the spot.
  
  Multiplayer is funny cause I created this ugly mofo and Took him online, and everyone laughed, 
 but mp is fun either way.
  
  PICK THE GAME UP!!! that will be all.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adawg1500
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 11, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever!!! It was worth $60 i would buy it again if i had too. But the minute 
 i started playing this game i thought i'd hate it. NO WAY i love this game with all my heart. pure 
 gaming experience.
  
  This game is better than Grand theft auto by a long shot. THQ should definitely make another saints 
 row game in the future. If you do not have this game go buy it trust me you'll love it. graphics 
 are a little off notch otherwise its a ten out ten.
  
  if you were a Grand theft auto fan well you'll love saints row. saints row is one of those shocking 
 games like have you ever bought a game and said why'd i just buy that the game probably stinks 
 well that happened to me with this game but it shocked me to be the best game ever!
  
  i highly recommend this game too anyone who likes grand theft auto but once you get this game you're 
 not going to want to play grand theft auto anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3rdcarnales
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game it's so hard to describe
  how good is this game. You can play people
  like you want to play and edit it whenever you want.
 
  This game also have a perceft graphics ( I think ) ,
  just little bit better dan the GTA series.
  You all also can to modify all your's cars any times 
 that you want.
  This new THQ game also give us a very great story
  with all four cool gangs like:
  1.3rd Street Saints: Our gangs, Julius is the boss in this purple 
 gangs.
  2. Westside Rollerz: The one of our greatest enemy gangs, this blue gangs is dominate by Asian people 
 and they are very good at hijack.
  3. Los Carnales: The oldest gangs in Stilwater, Ths red gangs is very love the drugs and maked by 
 two columbian brothers.
  4. Vice Kings: The gangs that dominate with African-American people is very like yellow colour.
 
  
  So now you all can play the SAINTS ROW with so much FUN.
  
  Good Luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danieloc92
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  As soon as you start to play through Saints Row, you will feel like you are playing a GTA game 
 on the 360.
  Saints Row is different than all other GTA clones in the sense that it directly copies the GTA 
 format. You can steal whatever car you like, you can kill whoever you like and you can destroy 
 anything you like.
  
  Saints Row does not have any air vehicles, boats or motorbikes, but it is extremely like San Andreas.
 
  For those of you who say Saints Row is not a GTA clone must be mad. You might also suspect that 
 THQ have deliberately decided to put out a GTA clone on the Xbox 360 before anyone else can so 
 that everybody will buy it.
  But i would never suggest a thing like that, they probably came up with the idea of: a free roaming 
 game with colour coded gangs, a star based wanted system, unique shop names, hideouts, holdups, 
 turf wars and a respect metre way before San Andreas came out.
  
  Saints Row is about a man who is caught up in a turf war and is saved by the leader of the 3rd 
 Street Saints, and he becomes a member of the Saints.
  The Saints are one of four different types of gangs in the city of Stilwater. The man who is saved 
 is going to be the person who you will play as throughout the game.
  
  The man does not have a name, and he only speaks in about four cutscenes, this is most likely because 
 you can make your character however you like. You can make him black, white, fat, thin, tanned, 
 muscular etc.
  THQ don't want a black man voicing a character who might be white or vice versa.
  
  The storyline 
 is also very good, and it keeps you involved and interested in the story.
  
  The car customization is really top notch, and you can make a really crappy looking car look like 
 a great sports car.
  
  One thing Saints Row has which GTA does not have is online play.
  The online play is really good fun and adds hours of fun to Saints Row.
  
  A big selling point 
 for GTA is the great humor.
  THQs idea of funny is sticking a rude word outside a shop.
  The radio stations try really hard to make you laugh, but it just doesn't work.
  
  Saints Row 
 also has a soundtrack spread out over several different radio stations. The soundtrack is ok, its 
 not the worst, but its not the best.
  
  Due to the fact that there are only cars to drive in Saints Row, all the missions revolve around 
 cars and shooting in some way.
  In order to be able to complete a story mission, you must fill up your respect metre by doing side 
 missions to unlock the story missions, which really adds length to the game.
  
  One of the really great things to do in Saints Row is to get a rocket launcher and blow up a car.
 
  All the pieces of the car go flying all over the place and it looks really nice.
  
  Saints Row is a really great game, but at times it thinks that its much more clever and funny than 
 GTA, and its not.
  If you own a 360 and you are looking for a game that will keep you busy for twenty hours or so, 
 get Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trashface
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  Some say that this game is a GTA rip-off. I don't have any experience with GTA and that means that 
 I can give this game an unbiased review and tell you whether it's good enough to stand on it's 
 on. It's a great and addictive game. The custimization level is insane letting you collect and 
 design vehicles, clothing, jewelery, hats, glasses.. whatever. The character customization in itself 
 is also insane letting you tweak facial aspects down to tiny details like nostril size and cheek 
 fatness. The gameplay itself is broad and there is always something to do whether it be gaining 
 more territory for your gang, protecting drug traffickers, stealing hookers and more. You can drive 
 anywhere in the city you want but can only go into select buildings. I would like to be able to 
 break in houses. I would also like the ability to rob people and stores stick up style. One big 
 gripe I have is that you can't strike up dialogue with anyone. They talk to you but you can't talk 
 to them or go up to anyone and talk. The fighting is also too easy. Other people are far less deadly 
 than you. There are also some graphical glitches. The soundtrack is pretty great and all of the 
 voice acting is excellent. Aside from the few flaws I mentioned, this is a great and addicting 
 game. It has some RPG elements to it which is a big plus to me. I'm a customization freak. Hopefully 
 GTA4 will take some tips from Saint's Row and have this in -depth customization. If it doesn't, 
 I may just be passing up GTA4 and waiting for the Saint's Row sequel if they make one (and it's 
 definately good enough to warrant a sequel) . It should be noted that this is a very violent game 
 and has alot of vulgar language and humor. I rented it this past weekend and can say that it's 
 definately worth buying in my opinion. It's one of the most addictive games I've played in a long 
 time. It had me neglecting Gears Of War. There's so much to do in this game that the replay value 
 is crazy. Saint's Row definately stands on it's own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haeden_Boy6
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the first real GTA style game (other than just cause ) for the 360 that is truly remarkable. 
 The Gameplay is just fantasic, and the graphics are just so smooth and great! The gun sounds are 
 probly the best on the XBox 360 right now (mabey COD 3 is better...) . The game just looks and feels 
 great.
  
  Most people find the oping scence rather dump, and trying to hard to be gangster. But the truth 
 is, it is great and the graphics are incredible. The scence starts off with your charicter walking 
 down the street beside dealers and hookers, then two gangs start shooting infron of you, and this 
 scence goes on for quite some time with the game war. But in the end you are about to be killed 
 because you are a witness, when the Saint Street Gang comes and saves you.
  
  Overall, this game is just incredible, and i would suggest this game to any GTA fan.... witch i 
 would asume is almost every one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qmackay22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is set in a town called Stillwater which is pretty small when compared to its grand 
 theft auto counter part however this city is really alive. You can witness police chases that you 
 are not involved in, Gangs beating up civilians and other gangs and its your job in the 3rd street 
 saints to clean this town up. Cleaning up a town may sound like your working with the police but 
 quite the opposite, cleaning out the town in Saints row is taking out all of the rivaling three 
 gangs and take over this town one neighbourhood at a time, and you can do it your way. The other 
 3 gangs own about 8 neighbourhoods each and just over half are turned over to the Saints on missions 
 you do against them. The remaining are gained by strongholds where you recruit some followers (one 
 to three fellow gang members depending how far you in the game) . Shoot up the certain stronghold 
 (sometimes a drug lab, gun plant, whore house) and when the gang is killed its your neighbourhood 
 and you generate revenue everyday from it (and your gang is seen walking and driving around it) . 
 This game also has a lot of free roam to it like buildings that you can rob, buy from, and even 
 steal contents at night and sell them before the police find you. Money is very important as you 
 need it to buy guns, cars, liquor, drugs, clothes, and best of all to customize your ride to suit 
 your style (which is very detailed) . Another important feature this game has is a really cool Phone 
 that you can use to dial things like 9.1.1 which calls an ambulance, and certain numbers to call 
 cabs, and backup. As you take out every gang you get a new house to park your cars (you can store 
 tons) , change your clothes, save your game, store your weapons. This game is definately worth a 
 rent for you to play through and if you like it which im sure you will, you will buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Polski_VP
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 8, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  it's fun but an ass at times. the controls are a little weird and it seems they are trying to be 
 just like GTA. At first you run like a panzy ass. a punch is a real drag when you have to decide 
 when to use the left trigger or the right trigger. The cool thing is that you can rob people. kidnapping 
 is preety cool too. Bad: no auto aim. Good: pimpcane. i like the different guns they have too offer 
 and the cell phone is a neat new twist. one last thing the missions are a little hard to find and 
 the icons are hard to tell a part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 4, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is a gangsta game. It's a lot of fun doing missions around the whole town. 
 Basically it's your gang against 3 other gangs. So what you do is completely destroy their territories 
 and make them yours. You can have as many cars as you want. There lots of different weapons in 
 game assult rifles, smgs, pistols, grenades, knifes and more. You can customize your cars which 
 makes it fun. Also you can create your own charater in any way you want . There are a lot of side 
 missions you can do. One thing this game doesn't have would be helicopters, planes, and any type 
 of motorcycle or bike.
  
  About the online multiplayer it's kind of lame, pointless, and boring. It has a deathmatch and 
 couple of other modes like co-ip mode for 2 levels but if it had co-op for the whole story it would 
 of been a lot better, and a lot more fun. But yeah... if you're into something like GTA i recommend 
 you get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alton_pueblo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games out for the 360 this is everything GTA should of been and more... I 
 still love GTA but this game brings so much more to the table but with out GTA this game my not 
 of been made. You can nver get bored with this type of game. There is always someone to kill and 
 rob... it's freaking great. The story is so killer, not as deep as the GTA games but just as good. 
 The voice actors couldn't of been better. I think the player creation could of had more options 
 but what they give is good enough for right now. There is a few minor bugs but nothing to cry about. 
 Can't wait for part 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jstyler
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic Game, Gives Grand Theft Auto A Run For It's Money. The Ending Is Very Disapointing Though. 
 The customisation of your character is amazing as you start the game. the missions are very good 
 as you get to play them but the only part i came to dislike was the respect bar as you could not 
 play any missions until it was full each time. the voice acting in the game made it enjoyable to 
 with the voice talents of the likes of; Keith David, Michael Clarke Duncan, Daniel Dae Kim and 
 Michael Rappaport all in all a fantastic game. well worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparkeh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Okay. Upon hearing of this game I was skeptical. I kept thing 'Oh yea just another GTA rip-off' 
 and never bothered getting it or showing any interest. My friend however decided to buy this having 
 no PS2 or Previous XBOX to play GTA and so decided to just get a 'flashy version'. It was a gamble 
 for sure as this game could have been a complete waste of cash. It did however turn out quite the 
 opposite.
  
  I have been playing the GTA series since it's start in 95 or so and Saints Row is about as good 
 as GTA has become. The main thing that impressed me with Saints Row is the fact that it just feels 
 right. When you play you don't feel like you are playing a rip-off. It is hard to explain unless 
 you have played this game so if you havn't then I suggest you give it a go.
  
  Okay first of all. Difficulty...
  
  Now this all depends on whether or not you have played 
 this kind of game before. With GTA being out for so long im pretty sure somewhere along the lines 
 you have played at least the first edition. Saints Row feels pretty much like GTA 3 and up (Vice 
 City + San Andreas) . It also plays pretty much the same. Even down to the buttons you need to use 
 (not every single button but it's very close) . Therefore you don't really need to pull out the 
 manual to learn this (so long as you have already played the GTA 3 + series as previously stated) . 
 The game itself is rather easy as you run around the streets giving the local old biddy a good 
 kicking in. The police aren't really up to scratch which allows you to pretty much kill someone 
 in front of them (as long as that person shoots you first you generally get away with it) . You 
 really don' get much police attention and they don't really bother you until you get all your'e 
 stars up. Then it gets quite difficult with SWAT road blocks and FBI agents smashing you about 
 the road. The missions pretty much gradually build up in difficulty. I have personally had to retry 
 one or two of the missions as they sometimes take more than one or two tries. Having said that 
 its pretty much an easy game but with the balance of hard I have rated it Just Right.
  
  Gameplay.
  
  Gameplay on Saints Row is great. I was growing bored of the GTA franchise and 
 Saints Row brought on a fresh face. It does lack few aspects like being able to drive boats, planes 
 and bikes. But personally I thought it brought a bit of realism to the game. Afterall how many 
 people have you seen who have been dragged up in beaten down streets flying a jet. The lack of 
 bikes is kind of odd as you would expect them however and possibly boats too. I guess that will 
 come in other versions if they carry on. The gameplay in general is very addictive I found and 
 I find it quite hard to not play on the game. One problem perhaps is that it can at times get a 
 bit bland with the ease of play due to cops being pretty leniant. However as said before you can 
 easily step up the heat. Within the game there are 'side missions' which are known as 'Activities'. 
 These are great fun and you may well want to invest time into them as they will earn you a few 
 snazzy prizes once completed. These said activites can range from anything to Hitman activities 
 where you seek out a spoken person and kill them with a certain weapon to 'Snatch' activities where 
 you steal 'hos' from rival gang's pimps. One thing that many people may find annoying is the fact 
 that you need to perform a few of these activities in order to gain respect which you will need 
 to progress in the story. However I believe it to be a great way to split up the game and make 
 it more involving and all together interesting.
  
  Graphics.
  
  What can I say? The graphics are great. With the arrival of the 'Next Gen' consoles Saints Row 
 really shows you what they are capable of. The graphics are clean, crisp and generally 'wow' material. 
 The one problem is possibly when you are driving around it may make the road disappear for a second 
 or two. Although I personally don't mind as there are simply no load screens. And in the event 
 of a load screen it takes at the most 5 seconds.
  
  Sound.
  
  The sound is great. From people screaming and responding in the street to the music on the radio 
 in your'e ride. They have pretty much every Genre you would want to listen to in your'e radio and 
 you can even set up your'e own playlist with music you have put on your'e XBOX to listen to whilst 
 playing. A great feature although I found running around listening to the pimps slap their 'hos' 
 more entertaining.
  
  Value.
  
  Again this game essentially IS another version of GTA but I personally found it a far more enjoyable 
 game. It is a great value game and worth investing in. If any sequals get churned out then GTA 
 have some very healthy competition.
  
  All in all this game is great. I loved and still love playing it and look forward to any sequels 
 if any. I strongly believe this to be a game well worth buying.
  
  If in doubt rent it but you will not be disappointed if you like GTA'esque games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveO1966
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Wanna be a homie, but you are far from it?? Wanna live the homie lifestyle, the drugs, the girls 
 and the run of the streets? Well, get Saints Row and you can have it all, the drugs, the girls, 
 the burgers and even the streets!
  
  This game is not me, but I love it, you go on different missions from stealing trucks, escorting 
 an escort to even helping deliver drugs. The game to me is a take off of the Grand Theft Auto games 
 and is very similar to them. There are a few missions I've had to do over, but it seems pretty 
 easy to master. The sound is great, but the graphics I think lack. Personally, I think they should 
 have added the option to use the vision cam to take your picture, so that you could actually be 
 in the game, instead of having to use and edit preset homies.
  
  The animation in this game is sometimes jerky, at least enough for me to notice. The graphics as 
 I said, is fair, but I think they could have done alot better, it reminds me of a childs cartoon 
 show, except for the constant swearing and lude remarks, not to mention the names of some of the 
 stores and the radio stations. :)
  
  All in all, I do like it. It's fun and does have some humor to it. :) Plus it allows those of us 
 who are far from being a homie to actually be and live like one. I think it's a must have game 
 for the adult . Since it's rated M for several reasons. Plus I personally don't feel it's worth 
 the $59. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d-suhiti
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series has successfully changed video-games forever with the introduction 
 of Grand Theft Auto III for the PlayStation 2 and later for the Xbox and the PC. It's immersive 
 world, fantastic storylines and an overall amazing experiences in all areas made it a great success 
 and inspired the extension of the series with GTA: Vice City and the latest effort GTA: San Andreas 
 - all of which are regarded as the best games ever made.
  
  The success of GTA inspired many 'GTA copiers' such as True Crime, Driver and The Godfather - yet 
 none of these achieved even the slightest success of the GTA series. The first GTA inspired game 
 for the Xbox 360 is here, and the long awaited Saints Row is promised to be a serious GTA contender, 
 but is it or is another failure?
  
  GAMEPLAY: The Gameplay in Saint's Row is very familiar to the GTA series and has some strengths 
 and weaknesses. You are able to drive various cars throughout the world and perform in drive-bys, 
 car crashes and the rest you have come to expect in an action-adventure title. However, the game 
 suffers with its lack of other transportation such as boats, plains, motorcycles and bikes which 
 could have added another layer of gameplay to the already impressive list.
  
  At the start of the game it is fully possible to customize their looks form the face texture to 
 their hair type to what kind of nose your character has. During the game you can also customize 
 your character with clothing, jewelery and fashion through different clothing shops. This works 
 great and really allows you to customize the look and feel of your character.
  
  The game has a compelling and successful storyline where the goal is to eliminate the rival gangs 
 in any way possible and take over the various 'hoods'. This might seem repetitive but the way the 
 missions are structured you will find yourself constantly entertained and surprised by some twists 
 in the missions. The missions however all feel kind of the same  the good old drive to the location, 
 shoot some guys and drive back. The storyline still keeps you entertained but the ending is quite 
 disapointing and worthless.
  
  There are also a great variety of side missions such as insurance fraud, PIMP missions, burglaring 
 missions, gang shootouts and much more. However it is disappointing that there are no missions 
 such 'Taxi Driver' or 'The Cop' which are found and enjoyed in the GTA universe. However overall, 
 there always things to do in the world of Saints Row and you will constantly be entertained if 
 not thrilled by every side mission.
  
  Not only is there the single campaign mode, there is also a fully enabled online mode which is 
 first for this type of genre. Surprisingly it works great with game modes such as just normal deathmatch 
 to team combat and others like racing. Even further you can be part or create your own gang from 
 scartch with other Xbox Live users. This works great and allows you to participate in gang wars 
 and rivalries. Xbox Live really adds a unique feature to this game and is not found in any other 
 game in this genre.
  
  The game also uses the Havok physics engine which is great, but some character movements when they 
 are killed or run over don't look realistic and rather look over the top. The cars however blow 
 up realistically and it looks and feels great. Objects around the city like can bottles or trash 
 cans have the appropriate weight and feeling. It is fun sometimes getting a perfect headshot and 
 seeing the character jerk backwards violently. In the state of Stillwater there are also hundreds 
 of cars and a selection of weapons at your disposal. The cars are varied from the occasional hatchbacks 
 to look-alike exotics like Ferrari. It is very disappointing however that there are no motorcycles, 
 no forms of air or water transport available, which could have extended the gameplay elements further. 
 The weapons also have a very nice variety ranging from pistols to rocket launchers and everything 
 in between. The aiming system is fantastic and works perfectly  it is free aim with no lock option, 
 which is great news  as this is one of the problems of the GTA series.
  
  GRAPHICS: The main weakness of the GTA series is presentation and the overall graphical ability. 
 However with the new powerful Xbox 360 hard ware, the presentation in Saints Row is very well done 
 and is up to the consoles standards. The city is very detailed and very colourful, the cars are 
 also nice to look at and the environments are a pleasure to see. Everything is not great though. 
 The frame rate drops occasionally when in big battles or with a lot of action on screen. The game 
 is still playable but this becomes annoying at times.
  
  There are also quite a lot of bugs and glitches found in the game which sometimes really interrupts 
 the gameplay and sometimes even forces you to fail the mission. It becomes a big factor but they 
 are not very popular and happen quite rarely, but they are still noticeable. There are a few signs 
 of pop up but it is very rare, the draw distance is fantastic.
  
  Overall though, it is a good looking and performing game, but some pop up, frame rate and glitch 
 problems intervene with the action.
  
  SOUND - VALUE - TILT: The sound in this game and the soundtrack is fantastic. The cars and pedestrians 
 all sound different, weapons sound how they should and there is a great soundtrack with radio stations 
 such as hip-hop, rock etc. There is too much rap however which can be a good and a bad thing but 
 sometimes you get quite sick of it. The actors hired to produce the voice for the characters are 
 to be congratulated. They sound properly and add a good feeling that you are actually in a gang 
 by the amount of swearing and trash talk. Your character however rarely speaks a word and you will 
 only hear him talk a few times during the game.
  
  The career mode is a good 20 hours with other side objectives and items collections like CD's which 
 also share some similarities with the GTA series. There is also the Xbox Live mode which is fantastic, 
 making this game worth your money in the long run. It is entertaining and worthwhile to play through.
 
  
  The game's difficulty is spot on. There are a mix of easy missions and challenging which always 
 keeps you going. The missions are well balanced and there is no setting to choose the difficulty. 
 The amount of bugs found in the game though sometime frustrate you to the point where you think 
 you will never pass the game or mission. So if you stay clear of the bugs there is a good balance 
 of difficulty.
  
  Overall, Saints Row delivers a game experience very similar to GTA's which is a good thing. It 
 looks great, it plays great and is worth your time and money. It is just issues like bugs, frame 
 rate problems, quite a dissapointing storyline and other issues bring the score down heavily. It 
 feels polished and plays a great game. If you enjoyed Grand Theft Auto or any other games in this 
 genre you will be captivated by this game, and you will greatly enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G0ne-P0stal
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  A big fan of the GTA series on the PC, but let's face it GTA-SA owns, anyone that thinks this game 
 is better is crazy! But it's an awesome game on it's own. The graphics are superb, the sound effects 
 are top notch. But what's annoying was too much RAP music, now I like some but there's just too 
 many stations and too many songs of this Genre alone. Yes I understand it's a gangster game, but 
 not just 15 year old wanna-be's gangstas like video games. Another con is the vehicle handling 
 could be a tad better. As well as just more vehicles and methods of transport. In GTA-SA you had 
 planes, boats, motorcycles, jet packs, heck you could even jack the train. SR has a train but you 
 can only blow it up, and ride it which is nothing but a teleport. GTA-SA also had a HUGE world, 
 so I was somewhat disappointed by the small size of Stilwater. Thus the small size of the game 
 and number of main missions, yes there are a crap load of activities, but the main story seemed 
 way too short. All in all you shouldn't be disappointed, and like me you'll be left looking forward 
 to GTA-4. Most the missions are pretty easy, but the boss missions can be a real SOB. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryzan100
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  This game is great! The game play cannot be beaten it is just brilliant in every way. The songs 
 are excellent because there is lots of songs for every taste of music. Even Mozart is there. But 
 the game is quite short but the game is still great because if you complete it you can just free 
 roam and kill lots of people. Also you can just try and get all of the achievements. This is probably 
 the best action adventure game released yet. I don't think anyone will EVER give this below 5 for 
 ratings but they might in about 5 years time. Because then there will be better ones. But until 
 then this game will be the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wavtu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  A blast to play, looks great and has many features. A very worthy title, and in my opinion, a great 
 addition to any collection.
  
  The reflections an lighting are stand out for the genre and the city and it's skyline are absolutely 
 stunning. The cars and people look fantastic, animations are great. The ambiance is perfect and 
 the car selection is vast. The soundtrack is very interesting and diverse. And it sounds great 
 too! This game is a sure hit to tide you over till the next GTA and you might even find it the 
 series's equal. I know I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brittonmcglawn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This is one of THE best games on X box 360. Graphics are awesome for a game this big. The handling 
 on the car sequences are sublime, and on-foot the only problem is you don't go fast enough to explore 
 everything! Although it has a few major bugs, it still remains a great game. The only other downside 
 to it is the ending it SUCKS!!! In any case, I recommend it to Everyone, I'm not truly a GTA fan, 
 mainly because it's unrealistic that all the other islands are closed but not in Saint's Row! I 
 love this game! P. S. : I prefer the Single Player : the Multi Player lags too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok This game is the bomb i say it should of gotten a better score than Grand Theft Auto but yeah 
 i guess cause it copied it. This game is a Grand Theft Auto lovers DREAM. This game got everything 
 Putting spinners on cars or nitrous to getting RPG Launchers and blasting Helicopters to Obilvion. 
 This game has excellent gameplay although the graphics show a little weakness the awesome gameplay 
 and sound covers it . I never expected this game to be SO good. I would definetely play this game 
 any chance I got cause its the BOMB. I thought like people said oh this game isn't that good its 
 ripping the untouchable Grand Theft Auto but they were WRONG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: switcharoo91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game will change how u think, jk!
  
  every its a gta rip off, when its actually not! it has some original ideas, but some come from true 
 crime; like calling a cab to take u somewhere, gta sand andreas; tons like calling homies and buying 
 clothes and other little activities!
  
  the good thing about this game is that it may copy gta and other games, but it does it successfully!
 
  
  keep it brief k!
  
  graphics: very good, but there are some lines in the game that appear when u look right or left 
 fast! still good graphics and good water, shade formings!
  
  gameplay: very very fun and good. lot of side activities, strongholds (where u take gang territory 
 and missions! basically fun, youll ride around town and mess around with the physics and everything 
 else.
  
  sound: some good songs! 3 radio stations for hip hop and rap. my favorite is k12 for drum and bass!! love 
 it! its like msx in grand theft auto 3.
  some rock and classical also reggea!
  
  value: good! no... great!!! get everything u need and its replay value is high!
  
  OK, look if 
 u liked gta san andreas and u dont cry like other people that its a rip off, then ull love it!
 
  It is saints row and its a great game! if ur still unsure download it from xbox live marketplace 
 (thats what i did) , but dont forget the demo is much more core then the actuall real game!
  
  the demo has only one radio station and u can not travel far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennisandnicole
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  its a good game but the ending sucks . you die so save it after you do the last misssion because 
 you die and you cant play. so save it before you do the last mission. so that you can play still. it 
 is ok to try out the game and it has like over 36 missions.
  
  its a good game but the ending sucks . you die so save it after you do the last misssion because 
 you die and you cant play. so save it before you do the last mission. so that you can play still. it 
 is ok to try out the game and it has like over 36 missions.
  
  its a good game but the ending sucks . you die so save it after you do the last misssion because 
 you die and you cant play. so save it before you do the last mission. so that you can play still. it 
 is ok to try out the game and it has like over 36 missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BabyAlf
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Just the other week. I had enough christmas money to get a new 360 game. I was recomended Oblivion 
 and Saints Row but I wasnt sure. I ended up getting Saints row anyway. I had payed the demo before 
 at one of my friends house and it was very good. But when I played it, It was usless. Before I 
 stop playing it, I wanted to get the easy achivements and I worked at that. While doing this, I 
 got realy into the game and didnt stop playing til 3am. At first I still prefered GTA but it eventually 
 got way better then GTA. I have listed below the Pros and Cons of this game compared to GTA
  
  -Good stuff-
  
  1. Its more relaistic and modern then GTA. eg- There is no unbeliveable 
 missions in the game. like one mission in the San Andreas is to break into an army base and steal 
 a jet-pack. like how could one man break into a maximum securtiy base and steal a $1000000 project?
 
  
  2. There are a lot more ways to customise your carecter and your car
  
  3. There always something to do
  
  -bad stuff-
  
  1. No planes, Bikes, nor boats are in 
 this game, Which was a big asset to the GTA games
  
  2. Having to get respect to play the story missions and do strongholds
  
  The music isint that 
 good and well-known
  
  Overall its a great game and is entertaining and its a least worth a rent.
  This is not a GTA 
 knock-off, Its better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braderz13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  I love this game and will tell you the good and bad points of it.
  
  Good- You can snatch prostitutes of other pimps, cause carnage for money and respect, Do hitman 
 missions, hijack vehicles, nice sports cars to drive, cool weapons, god music on radio stations. 
 Take over gang territories and own the streets.
  
  Bad- You have to fill up your respect bar to gain missions which can be annoying as the activities 
 to gain respect are sometimes boring and very hard to do. When your driving (especially on the 
 freeway) parts of the road dissapear when your driving. There are lots more good than bad points 
 but i thought i would let you know both sides. I would recommend this game to anyone who likes 
 gta but dont think its going to be better than gta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tri-Cola
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Now, every thinks this is a complete rip off of the GTA series, and that it has no traces of originality. 
 Well, it's true, this is possibly the biggest rip off of a game ever. But, it's really fun. Think 
 GTA: San Andreas with mass improvements; or maybe GTA IV without helicopters and airplanes. Yeah 
 thats it. You start off making you're character which is pretty robust. Think Fight Night. All 
 the cars in the game are customizable, which is a pretty cool thing. The graphics are really nice 
 but there is a lot of screen tearing which is pretty annoying at times. All in all its a really 
 fun game, but you'll only play it once. And then it will rot on you're shelves until you feel like 
 killing people again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jomuscle2
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  First off I didn't had any problem with a game that is like Grand Theft Auto since I like this 
 kind of game. The problem with this game is that there's nothing different with Grand Theft, it's 
 exactly the same type of game, the same type of city, the same type of way to present missions. 
 Nothing new here just a total ripoff. So my point of view is: why buy a ripoff? Just wait for the 
 new one.
  
  About the game now: I had a lot of problems with bugs in that one. I feel like they didn't even 
 tested the game before selling it. In the mission your allies while kill themselves stupidly causing 
 you to restart the WHOLE mission. In about 15 hours of gameplay the game completly crashed 3 times 
 (I was trapped in a non-existing car while the game switched music tracks) and when you take the 
 highway every now and then the road completly disapear!
  
  Oh and my other complaint: you have to do activities to get enough respect to do the game mission 
 but the activities are always the same over and over again so it really gets boring to do them 
 just the get the story to continue. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raverblood
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  great game. saints row has what GTA was missing. not saying saints row is Better but it holds its 
 own. there are things that GTA has that i like better. bigger map, more cars, bikes and boat. but.... 
 saints row has everything that i wished GTA had.. multi player. create a gangta and my fav. hitman.. 
 i love hitman. i wish they would make a saints row downloadable where its all hitman missions. 
 i hope saints 2 has planes bikes and boats. and a bigger map.. if you own a 360 this is a must 
 have... the glitchs in the game are well overlooked. and i love the car jacking glitch makes getting 
 away from cops that much easier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbleh
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is kinda like grand theft auto but with so much more to do. I think it beats grand theft 
 auto by a long shot the gameplay is really fun get to roam around the city doing various missions 
 and activitys. The graphics are really nice in this game make it even funner to play. And unlike 
 gta in saints row u get to create your own guy and take over the city as the third street saints 
 so if u liked gta and u have a 360 u need to buy this game its a good reason to own an xbox 360. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: towelie123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was kool. Killing any one.... new havoc engine when killing anything (just freakin 
 sweet) . you would think another gangbager game would be just like the others , well you were wrong 
 buddy! you got a wanted level for cops and rival gangs! there is a GPS system were it makes it 
 way more simple (better than gettin lost in the midle of san adreas) and is a hint for the futur 
 GTA franchise.
  bikes , boats , planes were a miss tho but you can create your own gangster!! man i love it when 
 you can do that... tho it would be fun just to put a female gang member too.... there was alot in 
 the game that could join you... so why not create one... oh well cant have em all an we!
  well i hope they make a sequel to this well think game
  original in its own kinda way.
  
 
  yours truly.... Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barok1973
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  i just bought a saint row game for the xbox360 yesterday ... and i played it ... it really quite 
 COOL... you are a good gangster who protect the neighbor hood from bad gags !... you can go and 
 get in cars just like GTA but the nice thing about saint row is that the missions and objective 
 of the game is very interesting. for example in the first mission you have to punch and kick to 
 be able to enter rhe gang then you are told and do to kill 4 gang members ... its really very easy 
 in the controls and very entertaining... i should say all the objectives are well made and decided 
 for the game... so if you are from philippines like me .. better buy one saint row !.. its fantastic 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TorstenSorensen
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  This is a GTA ripoff, but it is better than GTA IMO. It will take you a while to see everything 
 there is to offer, around 100 hours or more, but every hour is filled with non-stop fun. The only 
 complaint I have about the game, is it can be too easy at times, and very rarely slightly glitchy, 
 but other than that, the game runs well. I had some problems with the game crashing on my 360, 
 but after placing my console horizontally, it stopped crashing. I have played the game for about 
 109 hours, and I'm only 22% done with the story. Thats because you can do so many random things 
 (i. e. Drive up this small hill, then hit a Bowling Pin statue, and all the pins will be knocked 
 off individually) . The games multiplayer started out being laggy and kind of flat, until a new 
 patch recently came out. Now it is in my top 3 Xbox Live games. The games story is very good, but 
 at times it can be repetitive. The story is the most fun at the beginning, but then you see the 
 same kinds of thing more than once. The most fun thing I have done, was drive a car with a bomb 
 strapped to it next to a police station, to get the drugs the cops took, so that blew a hole in 
 the wall, and my gang drove a truck up to the hole, a bunch of gang members jumped out, and the 
 truck backed up even more to seal the hole. More and more cops kept coming, and my Cop Notoriety 
 juts went higher and higher. After 2 minutes, I had to drive the truck all the way back to the 
 place where the bomb was strapped to my car (Kind of a random place, don't know why it would be 
 there) , while FBI Sedans were after me. Thats only 15 minutes of countless hours of a great game. 
 I recommend this game to anyone, it's better than YOGURT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josh-2468
Rating: 7.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  When i first bought Saints Row, i thought it was going to be yet another GTA rip off! But when 
 i started playing it was far from it... It was better!
  First of all the gameplay and phsics of the game are amazing! The feel of the game, is also much 
 better than GTA's slow laggy gameplay. And is much smoother ( well it is on XBOX 360 though! ) . 
 The controls are excellent on the 360, and work really well.
  The graphics are also much more life like than GTA's cartoonish characters. You will realise this 
 straight away at the beguining when you are creating your own character. And you will see just 
 how life like his face is. And also how his body moves, like when hes running, and game animations.
 
  Also one of the best parts of the game, that wouldnt be the same without it is the ragdoll physics. 
 There are so funny and never get dull. For instance when you get SMACKED by a car on the freeway, while 
 it is goin 100MPH it really looks real. As of you are watching some video on Youtube. The best 
 part of it is when you go on a side mission, that involves you trying to injure your self it horrific 
 but funny ways to get compensation, which earn you loads of money. You use the 2 back triggers 
 to lunge to the left and right, but you never loose any health, so you can lunge in front of cars, 
 and lunge and jump of a multi storey car park!
  The downside of the game though, which GTA has clearly beat it, is where you cant climb to very 
 high places, or mountains, which really gets annoying! for instance you want to climb or a bridge 
 to jump of, and when your climbing up, about 2 meters up and you are stopped by an invisable wall! 
 And there is NO BASE JUMPING! which really annoyed me since i loved it on GTA.
  But overall Saints Row is much better than GTA: Vice City, but i dont really think it qualifies 
 to be better than San Andreas, because of the climbing issue!
  But if you have a XBOX 360 , then you simply must own this game! BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asher20
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a game that is much like the GTA series. I'm just going to go straight into the review 
 on this one...
  
  Gameplay: 5
  
  Just like GTA. It's simple to control, with TONS of space to explore. Vehichle driving is a blast. 
 The missions seem to get a little too repetitive too quickly. It always seems like it is go beat 
 this guy up here or go deliver this 'ho' there. The one thing that this game did improve over GTA 
 is the ability to select a spot on the map and have directions to that spot. Aside from the missions 
 the most fun in this game is simply driving around and crashing your car, then getting in another 
 car and doing the same. Designing your own character is alot of fun (especially when you make them 
 look absurd) . I didn't play the multiplayer, so I can't speak for it's gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  I'd say an 8 is pretty fair for 360 graphics. The game does look like a polished 
 up version of GTA in almost every way. Sound: 2
  
  The sound in the game is quality voicing, and the music is clear. What gives it such a low score 
 is the content. Most of teh radio stations you listen to while driving have incredibly lude advertisements 
 on them. It takes no effort to cause someone to drop the f-bomb on you and many other obsenities. 
 Even when you walk by a pedestrian they will shout Watch it mother f*******!!! You also hear several 
 sexual conversations, including what people are doing during sex. The people who lended their voices 
 must be so proud of their grunts and groans..... anyway, the sound just made me feel nasty.
  
  Value: 5
  
  The biggest value of this game is being able to have the freedom to drive around 
 and demolish a lot of things. The character creator is limitless. The missions get old fast...
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 1
  
  This is where it gets really ugly. Mind you, this is MY OPINION and won't reflect everyone's experience. 
 I bought this game under teh impressions that it would be a lot of fun. I knew that there would 
 be drug, sex, language in it, but I thought that it could be overlooked for the great gameplay. 
 After about an hour of playing this game I just couldn't take it anymore. I felt as gross as a 
 prostitute myself. Almost every cutscene I saw started with a guy in a room with posters of naked 
 women, strip clubs, a girl crawling out from underneath a table with hair gel on her face. It was 
 just gross. The ads on the radio were repulsive. I am usually pretty tolerant of some Mature content, 
 but this game should have been rated Adults Only (AO) . After about an hour of play I shut it off 
 and am going to trade it in at my local gamestore. Wouldn't it be great if they could make a game 
 with this kind of driving freedom and an assortment of cars to pick up, but just keep the garbage 
 out of it?? I'd love it! Anyway... I just have one more question...
  
  Any suggestions on what I should get with the money??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmilden
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row delivers where the GTA series hasn't. The game supports deep customization of your 
 character look, clothing and accessories. As a designer this is a big deal for me. Also you can 
 steal cars and pimp them out then save them. This makes me want to be a better driver in the game 
 to protect my rider during missions so I can return it later to my garage. All this was a complete 
 surprise to me. I didn't know I could walk into a store and shop there or hold it up. I love it.
 
  
  The mission are longer and the built in GPS make driving around this huge city with free ways easier.
 
  
  THQ did a good job of refining the GTA concept. The graphics are better, the controls are better 
 and the game play is more fun. They may of set out to create a GTA like game but in my opinion 
 they surpassed it.
  
  When it is time to release GTA IV I am sure Rockstar will be taking some ideas from Saint's Row. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_gamer_god_X
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by comparing this to GTA San Andreas. Two issues that I don't like about Saint's 
 Row is, no motorcycles or planes, as you may already know you can find in San Andreas. The graphics 
 and sound are obviously better in Saint's Row, it being a next-gen game and all. One of my favorite 
 features in this game is the cars. A: You can customize any car except for cars like ambulances 
 and stuff. B: You can have a bunch of cars in your garage, I know I already over 10 in mine. C: 
 Let's say you take out a 50,000$ car for a spin. Then you hit the nitrous and go ramping into the 
 water. You are thinking NOOOOOO!!!!!!! You head back to your garage depressed, and your car is 
 in you garage, yeah you can buy it back the exact way it was before it was destroyed. You can customize 
 your character in a lot more ways then you can in San Andreas. But there is no freeroam after you 
 beat this game. Unless of course you save it before you do the last mission. Overall an average 
 game, not good and not bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2ndWonder
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is the next gen GTA as of right now and i mean it literally. It borrows and improves 
 gameplay aspects from the GTA series and adds little twists of mini-games to keep you going. Saints 
 Row is a definite step up on the next gen console, but it falls short by only focusing on two things 
 Cars and Guns, now don't get me wrong about this, it is a really good game.
  I like the idea that you can create your own character, but they really could have added more options 
 and faces and possibly a gender option of choice. I really enjoyed the FPS halo sytle aiming instead 
 of auto aim, because with this option it really tests to see how good of a shooter you are.
  This game has a excellent storyline filled with options of work that you have to do before even 
 getting to do a mission, which i thought to be creative. I love the physics for instance if you 
 blow up a car people's bodies fly all over the place, and the piece from the vehicle scatter and 
 pieces can even hit and kill pedestrians that are walking on the street. This game has its ups 
 and downs, there are glitches here and there, but not enough to keep you from playing this game. 
 This is a must have have game for people who wanna get a taste of a GTA themed game that is well 
 polished backed with tons of options to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corruptionofmin
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  You choose what you are - asian, black, white, etc. You will encounter a epic story and it will 
 just suck you in. Becoming the best gangster in all of Stilwater will be easy with the fun and 
 easy to use shooting engine. No more auto aiming to hold your hand like a little baby, some people 
 will love it and some will hate it at first but in the end you get used to to it. My personal favorite 
 feature is that you can add a car to your garage and keep it even if it explodes! of course you'll 
 have to pay for repairs but it's just fun to ride in your own tricked-out-wheels. Of course every 
 game has it's bad, and Saint's Row just breaks even. Even though the area and storyline may be 
 small the amount of things that you can do makes up for it, but it still would've been nice to 
 have more area to cover and even nicer to put vehicles like planes and boats for you to ride in. 
 And why coulden't they take after Grand Theft Auto and let you buy your own house? another thing 
 is that basically your forced to act like some modern thug. I would like to have a classic mobster 
 kind of appeal, but it's kinda hard to pull that off when your character is standing there with 
 his head turned a whole 30 degrees and wears only baggy pants. But the game gives you alot to do, 
 activities that range from racing to demolition derby to snatching prostitutes and bringing them 
 to their new pimps. Personally I recommend this game to anyone who wants to play a solid game, 
 but not for hours straight. This game is addicting and attractive to most groups of gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody998
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Saints Row as you all know is the free roaming GTA like violence simulator. Only out right now 
 for the Xbox 360.
  
  The first thing your gonna want to do when you get the game is try out the single player, right? 
 Well right off the bat, you are given, well pretty much the whole city to do as you please in. 
 You are given a veriety of what the game refers to as ''Activities'' one of the first ones your 
 most likely to approach is the Pimp one. In this task you have to drive round the block and defeat, 
 by that I mean kill the enemy pimp, and rescue the Hoe's and bring them back to the pimp you work 
 for. For this you get respect, plus some money. With this money you can buy Clothes, the game has 
 a veriety of different clothes shops to suit your taste, plus Tatoo parlours, and barber shops, 
 not to forget the Jewelery Shop.
  
  The game lets you play at your own pace, and keeps the simple formula of, if you do not like it, 
 dont do it there are plenty of other things for you to be doing, and they are right. Shootouts, 
 Pimping, Robberys, Drivebys, Drug Traffiking, Hitmen services, and much more. This game is deffinetly 
 not for kids. All of these missions however, are really different from eachother which keeps the 
 game fresh.
  
  Missions, however are the games main focus, this is the main storyline as some may like to call 
 it. With this it takes you into the gang called ''The Saints'' which is ironic, however, the story 
 is ingame cut scene rich and has alot of interesting, yet rather violent characters and that is 
 truly one of the games stong points. By doing these missions you work towards getting more money, 
 cars, respect and Homies to follow you around. When you successfully complete a mission then your 
 Gang takes over a rival gangs turf and gets filled with your gang flowing the street.
  
  The Xbox LIVE aspect of the game will keep you comming back for more, after youve completed the 
 main storyline. One of the things I liked about this is that there are two modes, Ranked Matches 
 and Unranked Matches, In Ranked matches you play for money, when you get that money you can buy 
 clothes, Tatoos, jewelerly, the works! In Unranked matches you get none, but the competition is 
 much less feirce, you can then go into the unranked matches with your ''Pimped out'' character 
 shall we say. And the players will be the default Caucasion with plain Clothes and tucked in T-Shirt, 
 And the people will be running about shouting how did you get all that cool stuff?! Which is a 
 great sence of achivement.
  
  Graphicly the game is impressive, not quite Gears Of War or GRAW standards, but nice all the same, 
 and the lighing effects can be quite pretty too. And the sound has a nice soundtrack, and is varied 
 through different radio stations.
  
  Overall I was very pleased with this game, I can see alot of replay value and fun to be had, ive 
 had it for days and im only 12% through the main storyline. There is so much to do and to be done. 
 I recomend it to any fan of vionent shooter games, or to anyone who dosent have alot of money, 
 because this game will last a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jo2k14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  this game is gr8 in many ways graphics, gameplay, sound, value n quality. there is a minimum of bad 
 things in this games like the cars arent real n not very gd lookin.
  the way u can control places n otha gangs is brilliant i think.
  creatin ur own character is 
 one of the best features of the game and thq has done vri wel on.
  if i was u i would buy this game as u can buy it from 23,99 in gamestation stores n game stires 
 which to me is a vri gd price. this game is absolutly worth playin so go buy it if u want to and 
 also if u find it too hard then u have a variety of cheats 2 choose from! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natester10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row falls into the category of GTA-wannabes. However, unlike a lot of the games that have 
 failed to be like GTA, Saints Row definately has a lot to give. The graphics are great, and the 
 gameplay is fun. With an interesting story, and some great freeroaming in-between, Saints Row is 
 one to pick up for your Xbox 360.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is a lot like GTA, but there are additions. A good variety of cars and vehicles that 
 you can hijack in this game, but it would be nice to see a bit more, and some finer-looking cars. 
 The game itsself handles very well, and it's quite an easy game to pick up, and it shouldn't take 
 you an hour to learn all of the controls and even start mastering them, as well.
  
  Saints Row is a really neat game, specifically because of the neat little additions that make it 
 that much more advanced than the GTA series. The AI is absolutely astounding. You will find gang 
 wars going around town, and you know, while your driving by, you'll see different things, and it's 
 neat for once, to have a game allow you to see some action, rather that always being in the middle 
 of it.
  
  There are some interesting missions, and a lot of things to do. For instance, you can rob stores 
 and banks, and you have to have your gun pointed at them as they walk over to the safe.
  
  One of the neatest things in Saints Row, is that when you listen to the radio, you'll hear advertisments 
 from different stores around the city, and they'll be advertising sales, and when you go to that 
 store, indeed there will be discounts, and it's just a really neat feature that's packed into the 
 game.
  
  However, it does have an ugly side, and this comes from glitches. This game is run by the Havok 
 physics engine, and it's obviously had some conversion problems, because some things are just so 
 bad, it's humorous. Such as when a car explodes, sometimes you will be sent hurling thousands of 
 feet into the sky, and it gets all glitchy, because it starts initiating rag-dolling, and it's 
 pretty bad.
  
  Also, one glitch that is quite helpful. When you stand on top of a vehicle and you press 'Y' (which 
 is the button to get into a vehicle) , your character will automatically appear within the car. 
 It's helpful, but looks bad performance-wise.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in Saints Row is solid, and delivers some very nice textures and lighting/shadowing 
 fixtures. Water graphics, explosions, automobiles, and environments themselves look top-notch, 
 and definately stands out at times.
  
  Sound
  
  As in GTA, the game has a radio, and a number of stations with genres ranging from rock to rap 
 to hip-hop, and it's a pretty good variety.
  
  All the other sounds in the game are pretty good as well, and there are no real complatins as far 
 as the sound design goes.
  
  Overall
  
  Saints Row is a GTA copy with it's own feel, and in many ways this game is better than GTA, and 
 shoud be in any 360 collection. Not one for the kids, but definately a fun game through and through. 
 It'll last you `till GTA4 comes out next October... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escalade1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  As soon as i played the demo of this game i wanted to buy it right away, and i did. The game is 
 like a very good next gen GTA, Graphics are amazing , the missions, the cars, weapons , and not 
 to forget the ragdoll the citizens have its so funny and adicting when you play online or by yourself. 
 I found nothing wrong with this game and it was as enjoyable as a classic GTA game, it deserves 
 more than an 8.3, at the most 9.1. Belive me im a True GTA fan and this is amazingly fun. Saints 
 Row is an awsome game and i suggest GTA fans buy it until the new GTA comes out in october 2007. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cupcake_JR
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 11, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  First of all i want to say this isnt some stupid driv3r or something like that, this game is one 
 of my favourite 360 games out. once u play this game you will notice that it has quite good graphics 
 and sound and then ull notice after that how fun it actually is to plow the sidewalks and watching 
 the ragdolls fly! its also amazing how you can make your own gangs online and have a gang shoot 
 out. so over all i think every1 that has a 360 should get this game. making up for 100 words --- 
 ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints 
 Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ 
 ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ ~Saints Row~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameLordX
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  this is a good game.. its a grand theft auto rip off but they have seemed to make some some improvements 
 what the GTA franchize didn't like the aim its alot better.. awesome graphics but when going too 
 fast in the cars it seem to be breaking up somehow like the GTA did. it has a good story line but 
 your character dies in the end so thats sucks... i hope in the sequal they have bikes and planes 
 and i also like the fact that you can rob store thats awesome and have your gang members fight 
 for you and help you out... but whats really good was the graphics i like what they did with it 
 congrats for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PainKiller93
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  saints row is an urban style shooter for the xbox 360. you can create your own thug and customize 
 cars and everything else pretty much. you start out the game as just a normal guy and you get caught 
 in the middle of a gang war. your then rescued by the leader of the saints. throughout the rest of 
 the game you join the saints and then you have shootouts with the 3 rival gangs in vicious gang 
 wars. now this game isnt exactly like gta in every scence. first of all there is no planes, boats, bikes, etc. the 
 second thing is there is the character customization, wich hasnt been in the gta series except in 
 san andreas's buying clothes and hairdo's. the last thing and probably the best feature of the game 
 is the multiplayer. in the multiplayer you can start your own gang with your friends and get into 
 huge firefights with diffrent gangs. on occasion in the bigger levels there is a little lagging 
 but that shouldnt stop you from playing. so pretty much if you like urban life and gangs stuff, saints 
 row is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradox823
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  saints row is a way better game then gta.
  unlike gta you can create a character
  go online and play multiplayer and co op
  rob bank open safes
  rob weapons store
  have up 
 to a 3 man gang and they can actually shot
  better graphics
  go in better looking houses
  more destrution
  more activities
  cool features
  i played it for a week and im already stuck 
 to the t. v
  just amazing
  it plays like the game mercinaries
  should be a part two
  the online is fun the only problem is the control does not rumble for some reason
  shoting is 
 a little of
  crazy situations
  crazy missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geoff900
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Saints Row- Review 28/12/2006
  
  The game is much like GTA, a clone no, thats like saying all first person shooters are Wolfenstein3d 
 clones. What makes the game very different too GTA is the fact the game improves on what GTA has 
 in yes o. k. they have used most of the ideas from GTA. But in that sense isnt everything based 
 on some original idea music is one of the biggest for using same themes/lyrics so. First the missions 
 setup, which mostly consists of taking out the rival gang but with a difference the territory you 
 take from the gang, makes the other gang try to take there territory back from you which is really 
 fun to play. You have also a respect meter, the more missions you complete the Respect you get, 
 it also makes you do the side missions of the game, which in GTA is just more of Its just their 
 rather than you have to do it to get onto the next mission in the game. There are plenty of things 
 to do, from doing pimping your car up to buying a new outfit in the clothes shops to buying CD's/Jewellery/Tattoos, 
 there are so many things you can do where as GTA restricts you from various types . The game makes 
 itself shine in the multiplayer, you can have standard death match to other types, basically it 
 stands out online but due the patch not being very late isnt really being played much anymore. 
 There some gripes with the game, there are some graphical issues with the game, and some frame 
 rate drops when you have enabled V-Sync to stop tearing. The missions arent that fun after a while 
 they get rather get repetitive. The size of the map isnt exactly big either, but its fun while 
 it lasts and considering its the first Saints Row its a good start. Graphics- 7/10 Some really 
 good graphics for this type of game, some nice little features, some frame rate problems though
 
  
  Game play- 8/10 A game with a fun single player which you will play for while, until you go online 
 unless you cant find a match Overall- 8/10 Reviewed via Geoff Christopher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeverEndingXx
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I first purchased this game the day after christmas, which it was on sale for only 30 bucks. I 
 heard alot of good hype from this game and im a HUGE fan of GTA games. So I thought wth. I began 
 to play and became instantly amazed.... Heres the skinny...
  
  Graphics: Excellent, these graphics are nothing from what you would expect from a GTA game. The 
 creators were very attentive to detail. The gunshot effects are breathtaking, and the character 
 models are perfect. Sound: Sound is really good, but i have to say its only fun to hear the gunshots 
 and explosives. Except the voice acting is really good, including a few celebrities playing voices 
 of the main characters. Too bad your character doesnt have a voice, just facial expressions. (similar 
 to the main character in GTA III.) If you want to get the best experiance with the sound, I'd recommend 
 any type of surround sound system.
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game gets all of its beauty. There is absolutely nothing you can't 
 do. Such as you can walk into any store and hold it up. The cashier will take you to the safe and 
 you can steal all the loot. Also you can take hostages. You can purchase clothes and even plastic 
 surgery. The only problem is that the shooting is fun but can be difficult, because lack of a flashy 
 HUD and rumble feature. This can become extremely frustrating and not only that, you can't tell 
 who killed you, especially in the multiplayer mode.
  
  Multiplayer: The modes are really cliche and nothing really new added to 3rd person shooters. Which 
 isn't all that bad, except for the cheesy names that the game types are named. Such as Big Ass 
 Chains which is a mode similar to a king of the hill. You try to take as many chains as possible 
 before the time runs out. There are minor glitches to the multiplayer and lag. Which this isnt 
 a extreme problem, except in co-op mode which makes it extremely frustrating.
  
  Verdict: An excellent game which deserves to be recognized even though its a GTA clone. With a 
 decent story, incredible voice acting and addicting gameplay this game deserves the score... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evertonian8
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  there are loads of things that are fun and funny but here is a mixture of sum ideas i found =
 
  when you are driving around and you see someone walk or run or fight w. e they are doing press 
 the left trigger to use the hand brake and hit then with the boot of the car. also when you have 
 killed someone if you have a pipe bomb then chuck it next to the dead person and the watch its 
 is hilariouse there body just flys around. there is as easy way of getting cars rather than running 
 up to it because when you do that sometimes they drive off and its annoying so when you are in 
 w. e or roaming around then shoot the person in the drivers seat and if there is a passenger then 
 you can hold them ransom and the police chase you for a bit i hav found it easy to just drive around 
 a building its is much more easer then you get money :D there are several good things on this game 
 aswell such as drinking and taking drugs but it shows what they see when they take them so the 
 screen goes blurry which is a good feature ther are some funny missions such as the insurance fraud 
 what you do is you go to a busy road where people speed then you jump in fromt of the car more 
 distance and air you go the higher the score its is very funny to watch :D: D: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mechanismo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best, if not THE best games I have played on xbox. Graphics, sound, gameplay, 
 everything is just fantastic. There is a ton of variety in missions and activities meaning that 
 you have plenty of things to do and see, The map is well constructed and easily accessible. There 
 are SO many things great about this game that you simply MUST buy it. The gfx are WAY better than 
 any GTA game and there is more variety. You cant fly planes or ride bikes or drive boats in this 
 but I hardly even notice that cos what you CAN do in here is so entertaining it more than makes 
 up for it. This game has made me laugh my ass off at the advertisemnts you hear on the radio, and 
 the explosions of cars being destroyed never gets boring to watch. BUY THIS GAME NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard of this game it sounded like a complete rip-off of the GTA series, and it was. 
 Saints Row has its own flavor and appeal to gamers, but the missions and settings are too repetitive 
 for my liking. Also, there are so many glitches that can just ruin the game for you. I believe 
 that there is no point purchasing this game because GTA 4 is coming out in 2007; people, just wait 
 a bit. A good thing about this game is that it has its own story, cleaned up next-gen graphiocs 
 compared to the GTA series, and its fun. Through the lack of innovativeness, this games loses some 
 of its appeal, but many gamers will buy this game becasue of its similarities to the GTA games. 
 Also, the xbox live play on this game is extraordinary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtamaster2005
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  I got a XBox 360 today (Christmas) plus this game.. and I have to say it's the best game I've played 
 in a long time.. well maybe ever.. I am not saying that it's the best game on Xbox 360 since I 
 just got it
  
  The graphics are amazing even on regular TV.. I'd love to play it on HD-TV
  
  If you have an 
 XBox 360.. get this game! Yes it's a bit of a knock-off of GTA.. but this game has a few things 
 GTA hasn't such as drinking, doing drugs and much more
  
  Love this game!! Hell YEAH!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  even though it sounds like a rip off gta. it aint. it has its own qualities that make it unique. 
 First of all its gorgeous visuals and phsyics is so much fun to mess around with. if you get hit 
 by a car you dont just jump outta the way it a small spurt of blood. you get hit and fall around 
 interacting with the environment.... ragdoll thats it lol
  
  the plot of the game is to make the saints (your gang) own the city and to do that you must take 
 down the 3 rival gangs... the los carnales, the westside rollerz and the vice kings. each with their 
 own missions which differ in difficulty (dunno which is hardest... think vice kings are not sure 
 but...) all are pretty short but even if you have finished the storyline (and gotten youre 280Gp) 
 you have activities to do lots and lots of then, although repetitive they are quite fun, eventually 
 i found myself just doing them to get the 160gp
  because they got boring.
  
  online is fun, depending on how much LAG youre experiencing.
  deathmaches are 8/10 fun but repetitive 
 eventually youre playin the same map over and over
  blinged out ride 6/10 takes too long and is barely any fun since matches there are usually in low 
 numbers.
  protect the pimp 10/10 one of the best xbox live game modes i have played. it combines survival 
 speed and offense for one helluva game every time
  
  there it is hope you enjoyed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valroadie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Well, my brother bought this game with his 360 and we fell in love. Him and i are huge GTA fans 
 and this game has become more than what we have expected. We first noticed how diff. the game was 
 when we turned it on. The main diff. is howunique it is. You can do anything seriously, ANYTHING 
 and just the fact of making your own character is amazing. I highly recommend this game. The online 
 gameplay is just astonishing. The expandability and the thought of having your own gang with your 
 friends is awsome. I love this game none the less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikeymikey182
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Saint's Row for about 35 hours in total and it is brilliant. The graphics are 
 pure genious and there is so much to do on the game. You become a member of the 3rd Street Saints 
 and the main object of the game is to eliminate the other 3 gangs in the city of Stillwater which 
 are The Vice Kings, Westside Rollers and Los Carneles. There is a range of missions which usually 
 involve drivng somewhere and shooting which is great!! There are loads of mini tasks to do as well 
 like drug trafficing, hitman, hijacking, demolition derby and many more. You can customize your 
 cars to make them look awesome and there is a great range of guns and other weaponary. This is 
 a must buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackofDeath82
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row definately borrowed from Gta, but what can you do thats diffent in a life simulation 
 game. I thought they improved on somethings that I really didnt like about GTA. I liked the fact 
 you actually have to aim and shoot your targets yourself (me personally I really dont like auto-aim) . 
 The ragdoll bodies are also a great addition. You can ram your car head on onto another car and 
 watch the people fly through their windshield. You also have a GPS type thing that directs to a 
 location you selected on your map. It was great that when you put a car in one of your garages 
 you have that car and as many cars as you want whenever you go back there or at any Rim Jobs (a 
 place to customize your car) place. When it comes to customizing, this game is great, whether its 
 your car or wardrobe. I also liked how you can get 5 stars from law enforcement you can do the 
 same with the other gangs. All in all it was an awesome game with beautiful graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360_AND_BEYOND
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best free-roaming experience I have ever had, aside from Oblivion. The best 
 thing about it is you get to customize you character to look like you, which is always cool. Also 
 you can rob stores, and buy cool clothes. The controls take a little to get used to, but once you 
 get used to them you'll have a good gaming experience. The story is also kinda cool. I say kinda 
 because it's kinda generic, but it's still pretty interesting. So add up everything I said above, 
 throw in some online gameplay, and you have a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgreenthumb167
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  If Grand Theft Auto hadnt been on the scene first Saints Row would have become an instant classic. 
 Despite this it is still a great game with many original ideas and quirky side missions.
  One of the most noticeable things about Saints Row is the quality of the visuals, especially in 
 HD, the texture quality is great and the game runs with a constant frame rate, only ever slowing 
 down with large amounts of action on the screen. Very rarely there are graphical glitches, for 
 example during a prolong session the road may become see through and the car may disappear whilst 
 driving once or twice every hour. Although not game stopping it is still highly annoying and makes 
 the play want to throw down the controller and take a break, even though the game manages to rectify 
 its self within minuets. The sound within the game world is excellent. Humours phrases shouted 
 by passers by seem although they have been copied straight from a Gta script. Despite this they 
 still add to the chaotic atmosphere of the hood and the city centre. The radio stations have reams 
 of great music from todays charts, the majority being hip-hop/rap due to the games influences. 
 The intervals between tracks is of poor quality and little substance, often they do not even play. 
 The cut scenes audio often become crackly and slightly distorted at higher volumes. This is extremely 
 off putting during the more important cut scenes of the game because of the huge urge just to skip 
 them. The quality of the game play is excellent and highly addictive, once you start the game you 
 cant stop until you have finished it completely. The missions range from the simplest pick up 
 a character to destroy multiple drugs factories. They are highly immersive and often take multiple 
 attempts due to the difficulty, this is not a problem, it simply allows you to discover different 
 routes and ways to complete them. The game offers no choice of difficulty, which may cause difficulty 
 for younger players despite the BBFC 18 rating. The rating of this game has no real justification; 
 it is not overly violent but a large amount of colourful language is used. The game is an excellent 
 game with many innovative features, it will have you hooked for along time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curt_leon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  A GTA spin-off that actually does things right, including multiplayer. Gameplay is obviously based 
 on the simple GTA formula where you run around doing missions for other people and running around 
 killing people ETC. you get the point, nothing too new except the xbox life multi, finally a free 
 roaming game gets multiplayer! The multi has many modes like your standard DM and TDM including 
 other modes like big a** chains where you kill players and pick up their chains and drop them off 
 at a point in the map for points, it has great gameplay as far as that. As with all gta games this 
 spin-off leaves us with astounding sound and music, there are 2 more options for the music in-game,
 
  You can of course listen to the radio, or you can use your audio player to play music, go to scratch 
 that music and purchase music to play on it, instead of only having music in the car it will play 
 out of the car too. Graphics are top notch , saints row pushes the 360 graphics to a level where 
 you can't tell if it's a game or RL, it really is good in this area. Overall, you get a good value 
 for the price tag and it's shure to entertain you for about as long as GTA would. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTfan1883
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game carjacked CJ from GTA: San Andreas for the top spot.
  The gameplay is kickass, addicting, and hilarious. The idea that you get to create your own guy 
 is great. The multiplayer is flippin' awesome, but it's hard to find the patience if you want to 
 play a team based game on live. The storyline is good too.
  The graphics are great. Cars can be compared to actual cars. The physics or running a person over 
 is straight up side splitting funny. Ragdoll majorly.
  The sound is well done. The citizens of Stillwater are funny. The soundtrack, while okay, could use 
 a couple more better songs.
  With all this said, GTA 4 better come with it. It is gonna be really hard to top Saints Row. If you're 
 skeptical then rent it, but otherwise buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midlandzboi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the GTA series, and I can honestly say that Saints Row become pretty 
 close too being as good as GTA... but not quite.
  
  The things I like about Saints Row is the graphics are very well presented, the character creation 
 is brilliant and the wide variety of cars. Gameplay is outstanding, the storyline is pretty straight 
 forward, a wide choice of music, sound is nice.
  
  The bad things about it is that its very glitchy, multiplayer is not all that special and there 
 are no boats, bikes or planes which I think is a real shame.
  
  But Overall if anyone likes the GTA series and has a Xbox 360 Saints Row is a game you should definetely 
 try out if not buy.
  
  And I hope they bring out a Saints Row 2 someday 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Veritys
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Well I played all the Grand Theft Auto games, loved them. Of course as the years went by and more 
 versions game out it was the same old formula. Not much changed really, it was more mafia driven 
 story lines and the same gameplay and missions. While playing I always felt the same from game 
 to game. The last installment changed it up a bit making it much closer to Saints Row, in as you 
 play a gangster then more of a mafia hitman and it was a nice change. (riding the bike around at 
 the beginning was actually funny) But once again the game fell into the same look, feel and premise 
 as the many generations before it and I put it down and stopped playing many hours in. So buying 
 Saints Row I was a huge skeptic, the game looked exactly the same, same graphics, same gameplay, 
 same missions. Just with a different name. I cant I tell you how suprised I was after my first 
 few house of play time, the intro cut scene alone blew me away. First off player creation, creating 
 your own player exactly how you want him, well for the most part, there are tons of options. You 
 can mold the face pretty much like putty, adding in facial hair and obvioulsy hair style itself. 
 Make your self fat, or look like a tank. One thing I noticed at the beginning was the wardrobe, 
 jewelry and tatoos are lacking. I havent played deep enough in but I'm hoping I will get to unlock 
 or get some different threads. (which I'm almost positive happens) Anyhow making your own player 
 who you can customize and play through the game adds so much to it, it just freaks me out the GTA 
 series was never able to impliment this into thier games. Onto to gameplay, the game just feels 
 easier to control and play. The cars seem more realistic in driving physics. You can run pretty 
 fast so getting around on foot isnt horrible. And the aiming and shooting system feels more spot 
 on. Of course in GTA the NPCs loved to spout off remarks, and be over all pretty interactive, but 
 for somereason Saints Row just seemed to even kick that up a notch. The citizens get very angry, 
 but as you will soon learn, once you take over an area and your gang is in control, if you punch 
 someone they get completely gang rushed by your boys. Its very entertaining. And speaking on gang 
 gameplay. The more you play and more respect and area's you take over the more your gang spreads 
 out. The bigger you become and thats really the entire point of the game. To spread the Saints 
 territory and control. So if you need to commit some insurance fraud, kill pimps and recruit their 
 prostitutes, or assassinate another gang so be it. Its all in a days fun. Sound wise this game 
 is awesome. It doesnt have the extensive line up of signed artists hitting up on the radio, but 
 there are some that contributed tracks. The talk radio is even better then GTA, with all kind of 
 just pure vulgar advertisements... lol , it over all just sounds great. The cut scenes are well 
 acted and played out. And since your created player is right in the middle of it, it gives you 
 a sense of pride watching him be part of the Saints. In the graphic department I was very impressed. 
 Obvioulsy this is a 360 game, running on a HDTV at 1080i and it should look nice. But I got the 
 feeling in GTA that is has some texture problems, and of course still showed some signs of pop 
 up far in the distance. None of this seems to be an issue with Saints Row, although the frame rate 
 sometimes will drop in large collisions. Overall though I'm having a blast playing the game, and 
 although it might not stray to far from the GTA series they finally have some serious competition 
 now. This is a must own title, just keep the volume down, or dont play it at all until the kiddies 
 are in bed. Then, be a playa and take over the city, no matter what the wife says, even when she 
 catches you smacking the hoes. Just roll with it, its well worth every dime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessi_dusen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  Not a bad game all around.. very pretty for that much content crammed on a disc. Sounds are soso 
 and some wierd triggers for the comments of pedestrians. Missions are fun and fresh compaired to 
 rerun GTa crap. Characters are also a nice switch and the customization from yer body all the way 
 to your pimped out car features are very welcome giving the game a more personal feeling. Plenty 
 of cheats for the ones who wanna zing through the game. Sandbox play never gets old and as lonf 
 as the developers keep changing the story up and the settings these games will be around for a 
 long long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adevilwithin666
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  The game was very fun, yes a bite off of GTA Series, but yet made itself very original and different. 
 Story line was great, I wish they can make a sequal and make another great gmae. Just the only 
 downfall to me was the ending. Very bad ending, didn't really get a lot. I recommend to a lot of 
 fans of the GTA series to play this. Also which I didn't find out was that they had a great soundtrack. 
 The radio was awesome, great soundtracks from Clipse, Turf Talk, Jin, and much more!.
  
  The game was very fun, yes a bite off of GTA Series, but yet made itself very original and different. 
 Story line was great, I wish they can make a sequal and make another great gmae. Just the only 
 downfall to me was the ending. Very bad ending, didn't really get a lot. I recommend to a lot of 
 fans of the GTA series to play this. Also which I didn't find out was that they had a great soundtrack. 
 The radio was awesome, great soundtracks from Clipse, Turf Talk, Jin, and much more!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super_sniper345
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Way better than GTA. First off, the targeting system. This game may be a 3rd person shooter, but 
 it plays like an FPS! It actually feels quite good with this game, and doing drive-bys on peds 
 and cars are just awsome. The graphics are good and the controls are great. Car physics are great 
 and the explosions are jaw-dropping. The Rag doll is possibly the best in this game, as well was 
 crashing into cars and making people fly through the windshields. Great voice acting and for once, 
 your homies aren't useless. Police chases are awsome, being chased by cops and chopper makes you 
 feel like you're on World's Scariest Police Videos as the cops try to stop you in any kind of way 
 imanginable. This is a must buy! The character customization is very well done! Make your guy look 
 cool, gangsta, or nerdy, and give them any clothes as well as jewelry and chains. Buy this Game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jahoejaba
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  As with most people, I went down to my local blockbuster with some mates and picked up a game to 
 tide us over, as we had finished Gears of War the night before on it's hardest difficulty. With 
 only Madden and Saints Row in stock, we too the non-steroid hyped one; and damn, were we wrong. 
 Shove the disk into your 360 (Carefully, of course) and get that New Game rocking. As usual, you 
 create you character, but the laughs start there! It's set in the ghetto, and what races do we 
 have the choice of playing? Blacks, Hispanics and fat Caucasians! Brilliant. Then comes the intro 
 movie. Sure, it makes no sense when everyone else dies in one shot and you just seem to be knocked 
 unconscious, but hey, the gameplay delivers. Right from the get-go, you're on your feet. Sure, 
 you CAN go along with the tutorial, but why would you when there are nice BMW equivalents zipping 
 past? Jump in one and crank up your surround sound, as Saints Row's radio stations have a versatile 
 and frightfully good plethora of music. Hit some pedestrians and then jump of the car, before getting 
 back in, but not before stealing their wallet. It's what you want, when you want in Saints Row. 
 As you progress, you can get the aptly named 'homies' to follow you around, and even more humor 
 endures. Drive by a pimp, and watch the bullets fly! Progress further and they have AKs! When you 
 have the spare cash you can zip into any of the many clothing shops around the Saints Row world 
 and pimp yourself out, fashionably. Ah what the hell, rob the shop at gunpoint afterwards, you'll 
 make some of your cash back! Saints Rows near flawless graphics, brilliant soundtrack and near 
 endless possibilities will keep the avid gamer enthralled for days.
  
  One note before I head off, readers. May I suggest not taking a loan from the loan shark. Though 
 you only borrow about $2,000, he's willing to send waves of people with expensive snipers and automatic 
 rifles in helicopters after you until he gets it back. Must be the moral fiber that matters to 
 him ...
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lost__Cause
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  This game seems a lot like the Grand Theft Auto game at first but then you'll see it is better 
 in some way and worse in others.
  The graphics in this are pretty good but some objects seem far too shiny and the game has a more 
 cartoon like than GTA.
  The sound is pretty good with a wide range of music and nice sound effects.
  But what most stands 
 out in this game is the Character creation, which is truly amazing.
  I haven't played online on Saints Row so I can't comment on that. Anyway here's the good and the 
 bad.
  
  The Good:
  Wide range of cars.
  Character creation.
  Nice graphics.
  Explosions are great.
  Quite nice sounds.
  Quite amusing stuff. (E. g. Zombie Lin, Chicken Ned)
 
  
  The Bad:
  Far too many glitches. (Cars disappearing etc.)
  The A. I. of your followers can get rather annoying. (They sometimes don't get in the car, block 
 your way, get stuck)
  Frame-rate can drop quite low.
  Most places seem the same.
  Wheres the boats, motorbikes, helicopters and planes at?
  
  Verdict: It is a good game but 
 isn't is good as Grand Theft Auto. It isn't as much as a adventure as GTA was but it is still quite 
 addictive and has a great character creation. This has at least set the mark for GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumbanddumber25
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  The first time i played this masterpiece of a game it took me a while to figure out whats better 
 GTA or Saints row i ended up with GTA winning but not by much! There may be more freedom in GTA 
 but saints row has a bit more to it i didnt play any missions for a while because i just drove 
 around and killing everyone. The one thing i realised in saints row is theres no motorbikes to 
 ride and no planes or helicopters to fly. So GTA wins in that way for more modes of transport, 
 but the one thing i loved about saints row is the graphics, the clothes you can buy and doing activities. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 11:53 am PT
Review:  This game is insane! I love this game not because of all the abilities. First off, the intire map 
 is open and free to roam. The weapon system is nice, as well as the physics for the weapons and 
 enviroment. The all mighty greatest thing about this game is the character creation, you first 
 make a character in the begining and then edit him throughout the game including clothing and vehicles. 
 If you did what I did at first and thought this was a rip of GTA than I totally recommend to at 
 least rent it if not buy it. It also has a online mode but is very glitchy. Its not original but 
 it gave Rockstar a run for its money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fearinchaos
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 12, 2006 8:00 am PT
Review:  I must admit, the idea of jumping in a car and mowing someone over after a piss poor day at work 
 is amusing. The sad thing is I have about a dozen games that I can do that with. Saints Row was 
 the first of them that I thought had the possibility to create something different, and at first 
 look it does make you think that. Two hours into the game you start to think differently. The missions 
 are somewhat bland and worn out, the graphics are glitchy on various occasions, especially at certain 
 spots while driving, and the voice acting had the ability to either be right on target or not at 
 all. Where as they made a great game to look at from afar, when you get up close and personal you 
 can see where they took a lot of shortcuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballforeva
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 5:04 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row is one of those games that you can't really forget, even if you wanted to. I bought 
 this because I've never really played any GTA style games, and my game collection needed something 
 a bit more hardcore to boost my ego.
  
  The gameplay is awesome, 4 notorious gangs, each competing for the title of King of Stilwater, 
 you are a gang member of the 3rd Street Saints, and you are about to wreak havoc. The story is 
 really involved, its almost near realistic, almost near because of the fact that no guy would blow 
 up stuff just cuase he's bored. That's the best part of it, it makes you feel proud, to have taken 
 out 3 SWAT vans with a single shot of the rocket launcher. It's not sadistic, it's just relieving 
 to have cured a few of the small mistakes of Stilwater, the annoying cops. There is a lot of activites 
 to mess around with, and each activity is certainly quite extensive, don't worry, you'll enjoy 
 the process, I assure that. From a small fresh kid, you will arise and be resurrected as one of 
 the most known gangsters of Stilwater. From actvities like Hostage to Hitman, Racing to Insurance 
 Fraud, boredom will cease to exist while this game exist. Its the small touches of Saint's Row 
 that make it so worthwhile, and it has a few unique twists that differ from GTA. I don't have much 
 more to say, because you should just get the game and have one of the greatest times you can have 
 on the 360. Peace, homies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pseudoku69
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Saints Row mat look like a GTA copy-cat at first glance, but the gameplay and content are quite 
 different. The story mode is fun and long. Also, there are various side missions and, if you just 
 feel like bustin', you could fire at cars and people to get the cops on you. The explosions in 
 this game are a graphical masterpiece. But one thing that caught my attention was the online multiplayer. 
 Dudes, you can be in an online gang! I have never tried it but dear god it sounds fun! Saints Row 
 is not as adventerous as GTA because it has no planes or boats, but once they manage to add those 
 aspects, the game will soar above GTA: San Andreas. Overall good time 
  raves Pseudoku69. One thing that will surprise you is the ending of the game. It will leave you 
 in shock and awe and perhaps a little angry. Play it to find out. 69Position0_o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorpion16
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say that Saints Row is one of the best games released this year. They took the GTA 
 formula and did it right this time. If this becomes a series, than GTA may have some competition. 
 The game starts off with your character getting caught in the middle of a gang fight. Later he 
 is saved by the Saints which is a gang that is trying to take back the city. The missions are all 
 relatively fun to play and will keep you satisfied. This game also benefits from the one thing 
 made GTA games fun. You can go anywhere and do almost whatever you want. You can go on a murderous 
 rampage, you can rob stores, you can do almost anything. There are also a good number of activities 
 besides the missions. There's drug dealing, street racing, mayhem, snatching, escorting, hitman, 
 and others. It's too bad they didn't include stuff like the taxi driver and vigilante like they 
 had in GTA. The character customization is great! You can buy clothes, jewelry, and you can change 
 just about everything. There is also a nice variety of weapons. The graphics overall are pretty 
 good and the character models are well done. Overall this a very good game that is underrated. 
 Some may dismiss this as a GTA rip off but I think we need to stop comparing this to GTA because 
 Saints Row is a game that can hold it's own against it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGrymReaver
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay Lets Get things out the way
  
  this is like GTA but that dosent mean this game sucks its really good ill tell ya why lets compare 
 GTA SA to saints row
  
  First off GTA isnt perfect the customazation and character customazation was shallow
  
  Saints 
 Row Majorly Imporves on that
  
  you create your own character with lots of clothes, bling and stuff like that its real deep just 
 like the car customization its way better than GTA SA WAY BETTER
  
  And if you blow it up no biggy you can pay to have it back so thats also an improvment Graphics 
 are great and physics are awsome
  
  soundtrack is great it has great classical and hip hop
  
  now GTA SA ST was good but it was 
 like snoop doggy dog Dr Dre ive already heard them
  
  SR has some mainstreme joints but it really lets the underground shine on this track with tracks 
 from R. A The Rugged Man, M. F. Doom, Ghostface Killah, and more Now the XBL experience is good theres 
 4 types gangsta Brawl (DeathMatch) , Protect Tha Pimp, Bling Out Ride, Big ass chains
  
  Gangsta Braw-standered deathmatch
  
  Protect the pimp- one team has a leader and he must not 
 die or they lose while the other team tries to kill em so the leader wears a bright pimp hat but 
 he can kill you with 1 shot (pimp slap)
  
  Big ass chains- Deathmatch with twist you kill people for thier chains and stuff like that Blinged 
 Out Ride- This is really fun you and your team have to earn money by killing the other team and 
 blowing up there cars then you grab a car and take the car to the garage and pimp it out you have 
 to keep it in a good hiding place so you can take it to stage 2 it goes all the way to stage 6 
 and when your done its a race to the finish
  
  overall saints row is fun offline and online
  
  while San andreas has better things thatn SA
 
  
  SA has better things than SA like deepness
  
  so the San Andreas fanboys need to stop fluttering these reviews 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arab_prince
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a sand box type game, similar to Grand Theft Auto series. You start off creating 
 your own character through character customization. You can choose the race, the facial feature 
 sizes, etc. This customization is quite detailed but just not interesting. I didn't really care 
 to much on how my character looked because the options didn't really change him all that much.
 
  
  Gameplay: Nothing wrong in this department. Its open ended world. You can do whatever you want, 
 whenever you want. You can beat people to death, you can shoot up a neighbourhood, you can even 
 rob a store. You can actually walk into a store, point your gun at the clerk until he goes to open 
 the safe and then just take the money and run. Or you can just kill the clerk, and open the safe 
 yourself.
  
  The shooting in this game is also very fun. There is a reticule on the screen which you can move 
 around with the right analog stick. It isnt a targeting system which can become very irritating. 
 If you ever played Grand Theft Auto, or any other games similar to it, then you can get a basic 
 idea of how this game feels. The gameplay itself is really fun and it doesnt get boring quickly.
 
  
  Graphics: Colours and bright and attractive. Textures are also nice. The cars look very sleek and 
 futuristic (certain cars) and also explosions, fire, smoke etc. are all very nice to look at and 
 fun to watch.
  
  The character models on the other hand. Aren't that good. They don't look very real and are quite 
 choppy. Sound: The sounds of pedestrians on the street is realistic. Car sounds and gun sounds 
 are very nice. This game also has music stores in which you can buy music with money (game money) . 
 The music varies greatly. You can have rap to metal, to even some classical Beethoven. The pause 
 menu has an audio player which you can create playlists with or even import some songs from your 
 hardrive to listen to while playing the game.
  
  Value: This world is immersive and can keep you busy for well over 20 hours. Along with some not 
 too easy to get achievements you will be playing this game for quite some time.
  
  Multiplayer is fun. The games are nicely designed and its great to just play with some old buddies. 
 Unfortunately, there isn't local multiplayer, but just online. And unfortunately, you cannot take 
 a guest online.
  
  Tilt: This only got an 8 out of 10 for me for a couple of reasons. One, the glitches. A huge number 
 of glitches are in this game. It clearly isn't completely finished. Developers could have taken 
 an extra month or two to fix all of the problems. Some glitches aren't too serious, but then there 
 are some that make you restart the system.
  
  Also, waiting to enter an online match can take eternity. Sometimes you don't even get into one 
 and just give up and leave. It really does take a lot of time to get a game rolling.
  
  Ending comments: Fun game, immsersive and is great. The downsides are quite minimal and this game 
 is a must buy, or at least rent for any Xbox360 owner. This game Rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Netraam
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Intro: - GTA. Who doesn't like it (besides the government) ? I mean it's got the guns, the cars, 
 and it gives you a warm feeling in your stomach whenever you run over an innocent pedestrian. Well 
 here's a clone that Volition Inc. has popped out of it's womb, and let me tell you, it's worth 
 the $60.00.
  
  Gameplay: - Hmm. Well if someone told you to take GTA III, slap a new cover on it, and put it on 
 Best Buy shelves to chalk out the little left cash in the average 360 gamer's wallet, you wouldn't 
 get Saint's Row. First of all, the story is different. After scrambling through the character creation 
 screen (and a pretty darn long one at that) , you are initiated into the 3rd Street Saint's, a bunch 
 of pistol-totin', tattoo plastered gangstas'. The storyline isn't the best in the world, but it'll 
 keep you going. Missions will have you taking over as much of the city as you possibly can, gaining 
 rep, killin' rival gang members, and earning a crap-load of cash. But the real fun happens when 
 you hijack a set of wheels, buy a gun, and shoot the city of Stillwater till it just can't take 
 'no more. No, it never gets old, but along with this ever-so-familiar gameplay comes some pretty 
 pimpin' features as well, such as the ability to shoot, with any gun, out the side-window of almost 
 any car. Speaking of city, Stillwater, while no Liberty City, serves as a pretty good backdrop 
 for the game. Another cool aspect of Saint's Row is the ability to pick up homies, poorly dressed 
 (and armed I might add) fellows of your gang. They can help you a lot during the game, especially 
 on lengthy and tough missions. You have multiple houses, or 'cribs' throughout your journey, which 
 contain a garage, an armory and a save point. Cribs also serve to store clothing and accessories, 
 which are also a nice touch. Overall, the gameplay in Saint's Row is comparative to that of the 
 GTA series, and in some ares it even beats it.
  
  Graphics/Sound: - This is where S. R. really shines out against GTA. Graphics are well crafted, 
 animations are usually smooth, and cut scenes, while not the best acted, are some of the best looking. 
 Your character's clothing along with other characters' clothing is wonderful, along with the numerous 
 cars you can steel. There are a variety of options to pimp out your ride which all look fantastic. 
 Lighting is nice, but sometimes it will fault out on you. Sound could have been developed and looked 
 into a bit more. Voice-overs are great, the guns sound good, but the radio songs aren't varied 
 enough to keep you listening to it for long.
  
  Value/Tilt: - Value is high, and this game will last you quite a while. There is a bit of a tilt, 
 for the game freezes up a bit, and there a re some wacky glitches that will pop up on you. You 
 might not want to play the story again right after you beat it, but wait a little while and you'll 
 be longing to rampage the city of Stillwater.
  
  Overall: - It's a great game to recommend, and I suggest not to rent it, but to buy it straight 
 off the shelf. The gameplay, combined with the graphics and value will keep you addicted until 
 GTA IV finally hits the market. And maybe even after that, who knows. 8.8. Its more than good. 
 Its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggroll360
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a truly amazing game in my opinion. It has great gameplay which will keep you addicted 
 for a week or two. Become a 3rd Street Saint and be the Ruler of Stilwater. You face 3 enemy gangs 
 in this game, and they are Los Carnales, The Westside Rollers, and the Vice Kings. Each gang has 
 a different unique style and will gang up on you every time you kill a gang member of theirs.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 Wow. When I played the demo for this game, I said I'm getting this And so I did, 
 then when I played this game it just completely immersed me in this world. When you get your first 
 Shotgun..... You will be suprised that it is so fun to use. But after awhile, the luster wears 
 off. The only bad thing about the gameplay is that there are tons of glitches and they can make 
 you mad.... The back end of my car went up in the air and slammed down repeatedly and it blew up.. 
 So this made me mad.
  
  Graphics: 8/10 The graphics aren't amazing in this game but they aren't horrible.
  There are 
 some visual glitches but the graphics are pretty solid.
  
  Sound: 9/10 I would give the sound a 10 expect sometimes the sound just dies and comes back suddenly.
 
  
  Just get this game, it is very addicting and satisfying.
  Overall Score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxequalsice
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  First of all the absence of motorcycles, boats, aircraft, tanks, and all the fun vehicles GTA had 
 makes the free roam game get pretty dull fast. Thats' just laziness, it isn't like this game was 
 that much anticipated that people couldn't wait for them to add these vehicles.
  The missions are so repetitive and I can't remember once doing one and thinking this is fun . They 
 basically consist of drive here, shoot this person, drive back and maybe we'll throw in a time 
 limit. Not even challenging. And the rewards aren't even good for instance after completing all 
 the missions from a gang you just receive a new spot to save and a large house that is completely 
 useless.
  The multiplayer is mediocre and not really even worth playing seeing as it's extremely glitchy.
 
  This game is alright to rent to hold you over until GTA 5 comes out but definitely not worth $60. 
 I was extremely disappointed when I went to trade it in to Gamestop and they would only give me 
 $20 store credit. What a rip off. I guess i'll have to wait tell a friend gets a 360 so I can trade 
 him it or sell it for a bit more than $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shorttynaz
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good if you're looking for something to pick up and just mess around with to 
 kill some time. The game is extremely long due the the fact that you have to do little side missions 
 in order to get your respect points up to where you can do a mission. This is fun, but gets pretty 
 frustrating after a while. When you want to just go and do a couple missions, you cant if you dont 
 have the respect points. It gets very redundant! The graphics could have been a little better. 
 The sound is just like GTA where you get in a car and you can pick the radio station you want. 
 All in all, it's a decent game, but not the best one for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylinebmw7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  This is the RPG of 2006!! It is a full of humour, shooting, racing all is in this game!! If you 
 don't have it yet buy it.. it is great!!! The game play is perfect!! There are many many radio stations 
 and songs.. You can fill your wardrobe with the coolest clothes and jewelery.. And the cars there 
 are many many many cars.. most cars you can tune to real cool cars.. and the multi player is awesome! 
 It's really cool to go on line and be a gang with your friends.. so you can beat other gangs with 
 a lot of fun! many options in multi player it's almost the same as single player.. but on line it's 
 harder because you have to earn money not by taking over some spots! And there are many weapons! 
 It's a funny game, a good shooter, a good multi player game and overall a very good RPG!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chik_magnet_08
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game for a while and all i can say is that its tha bomb!!!! It has awesome 
 gameplay, character creation.. i also love tha fact that you can customize your car and clothes 
 .... and the best part is that instead of being locked to one part of the map, but you can free 
 roam... you have tha choice to do missions.... i have not made it that far in the game.... but its 
 just one of those games you dont get tired of after a while.... i recomend this to everybody that 
 likes grand theft auto..... i might not ever finish playing this game because i will most likely 
 be doing free roam instead of missions. it gets a 10 out of 10 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yayapEX2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:10 am PT
Review:  There have been many GTA copycats and this one actually does it better than GTA. One thing I really 
 love is that the entire Stilwater. You also gotta love the Rim Jobs shop. The features that Saints 
 Row allows you to do with the car is one up compared to GTA; I love my purple cars. The way you 
 have to earn respect to do the really big missions is a great idea. Some people think that you 
 should be able to do what ever as soon as you begin playing, but I believe that just like in real 
 life you should earn respect. However when doing these missions I feel a lack of checkpoints; I 
 like to save very often.
  
  The combat system is much better than GTA since there is no clunky auto targeting. The controls 
 for the melee combat is basic and effective; its so much fun hitting dumb looking people on the 
 sidewalks. You also gotta love eating at Freckle Female Dog's burger joint; using food to heal 
 you health.
  
  The multiplayer options are nice. You can play a wide assortment of objective like there's deathmatch 
 options, an escort-styled mode called Protect Tha Pimp, and forms of CTF. One thing that just ticks 
 me off is having to learn the controls all over again. It just makes no sense to play the game 
 for 50 hours and learn the controls all over again.
  
  I will say that saints Row is not the greatest example of the graphical power of the Xbox 360 compared 
 to Oblivion. Im not saying that its bad though; there is a great effort to make this game have 
 its own style and feeling. Theres over 100 car models, great lighting effects, and weird dressed 
 up looking people. The hoods are beat down and loaded with street walkers, pimps, pushers, gang 
 members, and cops, while the suburban areas are creepily quiet but much nicer looking. The voice 
 in this game can be summed up as potty humor than anything. Honestly I feel that the music is generic 
 or it could just be from some people who are very unknown. The voice acting is the ultimate strength, 
 with many big names, like Michael Clarke Duncan, Micheal Rappaport, and Tia Carrere for starters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voodoo2k3
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Open, unlocked world; great draw-distance; fun activities; entertaining story; good custimizing 
 options; cheesy dialogue and great multiplayer ideas.
  
  Cons: Loads of minor glitches that don't affect the game as a whole, but certainly get you cursing; 
 bland multiplayer; graphical glitches; cheesy dialogue.
  
  Saint's Row moves from Liberty City, Vice City and San Andreas by taking bits from each city and 
 adding something new to the city of Stilwater. The city within Saint's Row is alive and riviting. 
 People do day-to-day things like get the newspaper, get a cab, pick up a hooker, everyday stuff. 
 But under all that is the gang wars that tear the city apart, and thats where you come in. In a 
 Grand Theft Auto inspired role, you must take control of the city through your gang: The 3rd Street 
 Saints. There are three interesting and very different gangs playing on huge Hollywood cliches 
 both intentionally and unintentionally.
  
  Right from the get-go, the game is more creative than Grand Theft Auto, allowing you to literally 
 mold your character from scratch. Do to the detail not seen in GTA, you can make your character 
 celebrities or even yourself. Experimenting with Mr. T and Saddam Hussein fighting in gang wars 
 makes for an interesting playthrough as I've experienced. Like GTA, you have the choice to do your 
 missions or roam the city. Unlike GTA, the entire city is free for you to seak out, and not locked 
 up. Of course, the further you go, the less your gang controls, thus making more enemies than friends. 
 As you progress in the main story, more neighborhoods will be under your control and will be safer 
 to explore. Also, as you explore you find clothing, tattoo and plastic surgery shops which allow 
 for nearly limitless customization on your character. A car mechanic also allows for some very 
 neat car upgrades and it's actually worth it since the redesigned garage system works much better 
 than GTA.
  
  The games activities are a real catch and are what keep you coming back to the game. The activities 
 range from racing and assassinating targets to pimping and performing insurance fraud which is 
 probably the most fun activity of them all. The activities occur in levels, higher levels are more 
 frustrating than fun but the reward at the end of each is well worth it. And while you may not 
 like some activities, there are plenty more to suite your pleasure. The games activities create 
 a nice, light, pick up and play feel to the game which makes it enjoyable, especially when your 
 stuck in the main story and are asking what now? .
  
  As for the main story, it is quite corny and has some quirky characters that spit out some mean 
 slang. Some of it is stuff I thought people said to mock gangsters from the Bronx. It's unclear 
 whether or not the developers used to mock that lifestyle or if they thought that's how they really 
 talk, but it's pretty funny either way, for better or for worse. The game also has some very funny 
 dialogue about different, everyday things. For example, two of your homies are arguing about the 
 gang Los Carnales and whether or not you say the before los since los is the Spanish translation. 
 It's some good writing and a good lead in to your missions. The missions are pretty straightforward, 
 asking you to ride someone off the road, take out a number of enemies or assassinate this or that. 
 However, now and again you get something more creative that makes the campaign much more enjoyable 
 and tolerable than any of the Grand Theft Auto games whose single-player games were composed of 
 essentially the same three missions over and over. The singleplayer isn't particularly long, but 
 it is fun the whole way through and only mildly challenging later down the road.
  
  In the graphics department, Saint's Row does an excellent job of creating a detailed world without 
 loading screens full of dynamic effects, shadows and interesting AI behavior. When you're up close 
 and personal with AI, it's rough, but from a far it looks great. When you have AI team mates, they 
 often do foolish things like run into openings to get fired at, not enter your car when you call 
 them or just do something totally uncalled for. However, the AI of citizens has them purchasing 
 newspapers, socializing and sitting on park benches, as well as running from police and tripping 
 when running too fast. Some of these are seen in GTA, but Saint's Row really capitalizes on it. 
 While the city graphics are great, the small details are not so much. Characters have a noticable 
 low polygon count with rough edges on the faces and bodies. Textures are usually sharp and shiny, 
 but some textures are just bland and ugly. Luckily, most of the game is seen from a good distance 
 away that most of the glaring graphical problems are unseen.
  
  However, there are also graphical glitches. Pop-in's when driving quickly aren't as obvious as 
 Grand Theft Auto, but they are still there. However, it's a step forward, the real problem being 
 the cheap loads that have the road, then your vehicles vanish for a moment or two with your characters 
 sitting in mid-air. This usually occurs on the highway, and isn't common but does happen. It has 
 little effect on the gameplay besides sometimes crashing due to a barrier quickly vanishing then 
 re-appearing. Other gameplay affecting glitches include objects that should just easily be knocked 
 over by your vehicle spontaneously stopping your vehicle and sending it crashing vertically into 
 the air, becoming a huge frustration. Then there is the fact that the game will not let you enter 
 a car door if it's too close to another object, so with a passanger you have to wait for both people 
 to enter one side, often resulting in an enemy killing you before you get away. Sometimes, however, 
 there is nothing close to your door, but rather several feet away, making it frustratingly illogical.
 
  
  Online isn't anything special, but it has all the right ideas. Creating a party allows you to enter 
 the most fun, interactive lobby I've ever seen. Players run around a warehouse, playing warm-up 
 deathmatch until a game is decided upon and starts. Game modes are very creative from Protect Tha 
 Pimp where one team must protect their unarmed pimp, and the other team must eliminate him. Other 
 modes offer more unique experiences, however it's the game mechanic that makes it impossible. The 
 sprinting system works wonders in singleplayer, however, it makes firing troublesome online due 
 to the speed of people. The inaccuracy of weapons versus the quantities of health for players makes 
 it frustrating and the wait times make it a chore.
  
  All-in-all, Saint's Row takes the good and leaves the bad from GTA while adding little new things 
 and large new things that mostly are for the better in a game which is twice as addicting, if twice 
 as corny as Grand Theft Auto in what can, for now, be called the ultimate crime simulator. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVallette
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  although many games have tried to copy the SanAndreas style gameplay but they have failed. Saints 
 row did not. The game ahs more than GTA style gameplay it has more features than GTA and i personally 
 htink a longer storyline. Not only that the game is much more realistic. Speaking like graphics 
 gameplay, the action and the better story. the game starts you out with you the player creating 
 a character and joining the 3rd street saints. The point of the game is for you to take back the 
 Row and to take over the goddamn city as well. the activities in the game are fun to play. some 
 activities are  and etc. the game also lets you 
 hold up stores and rob the place at night. when you rob the place at night you have to crack the 
 safe and take the goods to the pawn shop. in order to do missions in the game you must do activities 
 to gain respect. the more respect you have the more missions you are allowed to do. Some famous 
 actors are in the game like MIchael Rapaport, the black detective from transporter 2 and some other 
 people. Throught the game you will explore the gang influenced city of Stilwater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody4890
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 1, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  Some people are going to pass this off as a GTA clone. Well, those people are stupid. Who cares 
 if this game is just like GTA? DOnt you people want another GTA game, on a next gen console!? Well, 
 after that rant, to the game. First off you play a custom created character that wants to get involved 
 with local gang The Third Street Saints. The storyline of the game is slightly weak, but some good 
 (not to mention strange) twists keep it alive. There are only about 31 missions spread over 4 campaigns. 
 Aside from the Saints plot, you can take missiond from fellow gang members to take out your rival 
 gangs. Theres the Rollerz, who are chaved up speed freaks, the Vice Kings, which are empire building 
 maniacs, then theres the Los Carnarles which are latino hailing wierdos basically. After you take 
 out each gang, you get a reward of a new safehouse and a couple of cars, so theres more incentive 
 to complete it. However, you cant just roll in and take missions as you please. You have to gain 
 respect through various activities spread across the sprawling Stilwater City. Theres Snatch, hijack, 
 race, tagging, cd collecting, hitman, and much more. Each activitie has 3 locations, and each location 
 has 7 levels. Complete all 7 levels and you get a prize. Complete all 3 locations and you get another 
 prize. Great... A new inclusion to free roaming games is the sat nav type map system. On the map 
 menu, select any point in the game, even the middle of the road, and the game plots the quickest 
 route there for you! Perhaps the best feature though is the mission replay system. If you want 
 to play a mission but you've already completed it, then just go to the cinema and select the missions 
 menu. You can then play it over and over!
  
  Graphics- This game looks great in HD- O- Vision, but the framerate stutters quite alot. And in 
 numerous ocasions whilst i was driving along, the road would dissapear from beneath me. So me and 
 my NPC buddies would literally be floating along. Great.
  
  Gameplay- Its hard to find a fault with Saints Rows great gamplay, everything is just so good on 
 single player. The Xbox Live, whilst a good idea, dosent really work. The game modes are somewhat 
 limited, especially with the co op modes. Also, the majority of my games were cut short due to 
 inexplained server errors. It would have been a better idea just to let you and a buddy roam around 
 Stilwater.
  
  Sound- Saints Row houses a great soundtrack from various well known artists, some of which are 
 exclusive to the game. The voice acting is alright, but theres just to much swearing in it to work.
 
  
  Lifespan- Saints plot will last you for a while and so will all the activities, but you wont come 
 back for the dissapointing online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HomrS
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  If you're a fan of Grand Theft Auto, then you should definitely check out Saints Row. This GTA 
 style game features the gang attacks, carjacking and other mature fun that can be played for months.
 
  
  Let me first make it clear that this was never intended to be a game for kids. There is a TON of 
 hard core swearing, and it is pretty much constant. Even walking the streets gets you baragged 
 with swearing. Your missions involve driving prostitutes around and listening to them at work , 
 helping drug dealers make their rounds, bashing up gang members in very violent ways, and so on. 
 This is very clearly aimed towards a mature market, the kind that loves to watch The Sopranos and 
 Scarface.
  
  That being said, Saint's Row provides extremely fun escapist fantasy for those who enjoy those 
 worlds. The graphics quality is extremely impressive. You get day-night cycles, and the sunset 
 with the twinkling stars is gorgeous. Each area of your city has its own personality. You can really 
 enjoy walking along the chinatown waterfront in the early morning. The cars have fun touches like 
 spinning wheel add-ons.
  
  Many things that were annoying about the Grand Theft Auto series are fixed here. I like the aiming 
 system much better, I like how it saves and how it handles death in missions. Most of the minigames 
 are quite fun and ramp up in difficulty at a reasonable rate. For example you can - right from 
 the start - do a ton of Insurance Fraud missions and get just about as much money as you could 
 possibly want, and respect as well.
  
  Even the basic character customization is impressive. You can be caucasian, African-American, hispanic, 
 or asian - with a lot of details on each type. Yes, you can only be a guy. Someday they'll let 
 girls into these games, in a way other than a prostitute! The hair, tattoo, body piercings, clothing, 
 etc. choices are pretty impressive.
  
  The voice acting is stellar. You get David Carradine, Keith David, Michael Clarke Duncan, Tia Carrere, 
 and much more. It really helps you to get involved in the storyline. The story is sometimes predictable, 
 but heck, this is a gang story. Of course you know that your gang will gain power while you defeat 
 the others. It wouldn't be much of a game if your gang was destroyed quickly :)
  
  There are of course a few things they could have done better. There aren't motorcycles. There are 
 a few strange glitches - like when you're hit by a car sometimes and fly up, it teleports you to 
 a train station. The game has frozen once or twice but it seems to be after full-day gaming marathons, 
 so it could easily be the XBox having a temporary meltdown. The cars don't seem to be affected 
 much by damage.
  
  In general, this is amazingly fun to play, the world is simply fun to be in with its graphics and 
 details, and there are always new things to do.
  
  Highly, highly recommended for a mature gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMuffin_man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 30, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  First of im not going to mention it being a gta-rip off in my review. Im just going to review how 
 fun it is.
  
  Gameplay- It has some cool gameplay mechanics. The free aiming works very well. Cars controll good. 
 Story line and tons of side quest. Plus theres online. And it also has a very good story.
  
  graphics- The graphics acctually look very solid. Explosions look just plain awsome. But theres 
 a lot of glitches in the game. But it still looks very good
  
  sound - The sound in the game is good. The voice acting is just nothing plain but awsome. And the 
 pedestrians on the street say some pretty funny sutff...
  
  value- IT has good value because theres a lot to do in single player. And theres multiplayer as 
 well
  
  titlt. Overall its a phenomanal game . that anyone thats into the free roam game style . Should 
 check this out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  great game tons of fun worth every penny you pay very good gameplay and its online thats good too 
 the graphics are not bad to you know what i mean ok then yeah what ever they copyed grand thaft 
 auto san andreas you know what i mean yeah ok its still a great game don't get me wrong you know 
 what i mean its just right the difficulty you know what i mean yeah what its just plain fun you 
 know what i mean you can play this game for 10 to 20 hours its not to hard to catch on to this 
 game you know what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeDelight
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row [XBOX 360] (2006)
  
  With Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas a faint but unforgetable memory, the XBOX 360 tries to tide 
 gamers over before GTA's fourth installment of the epic saga. Watching commercials on TV for SAINTS 
 ROW, it looked like more of a clone than Boba Fett and, condidering myself a GTA fanboy, tried 
 to stay away. But, I eventually gave in, and am pretty glad I did. This particular title was awesome 
 to begin with, and the story was engrossing to say the least. When I first played the game, I had 
 immediately noticed that when you get into a taxi, you can't be a taxi driver. Nothing else worked 
 that way either. You couldn't be a vigilante cop, you couldn't be a pimp, and you couldn't fly 
 RC cars, drive boats, fly planes, or ride bikes. But then I saw that for things that this game 
 didn't have, it made up for (if not entirely) with its own little side missions. It has things 
 such as helping down-and-out pimps get their hos back, protecting drug dealers while they're dealing, 
 and jumping into crowded streets for insurance fraud. It also has a lot of other things that GTA 
 didn't have and should've. For one thing, the targeting on your map not only puts a little point 
 there on the side of it, but gives you a path where to go with a bunch of dots on your map. It 
 has more vehicles, made possible by the 360 engine, which are not only different, but some cars 
 of the same make and model can have different types of wear on them. Sure in GTA you would sometimes 
 find cars that were smashed up, but here some just have dirt on them, which is not just unchangeable 
 graphical draw-in like in GTA, but can be removed at the nearest Pay-n-Spray - I mean Rim Job's 
 car mechanic. But there are problems with the vehicles too. In this game, it seems like the cars 
 don't get as damaged as they should. In GTA, every little fender bender would show some kind of 
 dent in the car, but here, you could sometimes crash full speed into things and not find a noticeable 
 scratch. What is good though is that much less things can be glitched through. Signs can not only 
 be knocked over, but hit around as your car drives, not just immediately disappearing like in GTA. 
 You can't just walk through the doors of your cars, and things like fire hydrants can be knocked 
 over and carried with you too, which was possible in GTA, but here when the water shoots up, it 
 (mostly) doesn't just glitch through the top of your car if you drive over it, but hits the bottom 
 of it. The targeting system here with weapons is better, using a reticule in the middle of the 
 screen instead of a color-changing auto-target. It's fun to rob stores and things like that, and 
 also fun to heist them when the lights are off. In this game if you find a rival gang's tag on 
 a wall, you can spray paint over it any time because you always have a can, though much of the 
 spray painted walls are just regular old grapphiti, which gets annoying. In the start of the game 
 it seems like the side missions would never get old, because there are so many on the map, but 
 there are only about 5 actual types, and the abundance of them is just because there's different 
 people to do the same exact missions for. It is also very annoying that you have to do these same 
 missions over and over again to earn enough respect to do the next story mission or even take out 
 srtongholds of gangs strewn about the city. If anything, taking over another gang's territory should 
 earn you respect, not drain it. The character customization is much more expansive than in GTA, 
 here besides the amount of clothes to choose from, you are able to choose what your character's 
 face looks like. I also like the rag doll physics for characters that are dead. It makes them look 
 much more realistic than in Grand Theft Auto.
  
  In this game, the sound track, though much larger than GTA's is not as good. GTA gave you a little 
 of everything, from rock to rap to talk. This game does the same thing, but leaves out the real 
 kind of rock, the only strong points being the rap soundtrack. I, not being a fan of rap, was left 
 listening to the talk radio where there was only about 30 minutes of real talk which just keeps 
 getting repeated. I sure miss Lazlo and all of the other radio personalities in one station in 
 GTA, here just being only one radio show, consisting of two guys talking about what's best for 
 the country and stuff like that. And then there are the glitches. Sometimes when you are listening 
 to the radio in the middle of a mission, the characters will miss some of their lines, which are 
 usually throwaway filler to keep the driving from point A to point B interesting, but it is still 
 annoying. Also, sometimes you will be driving along on the highway going super-fast when you notice 
 to yourself that there is no road under your wheels. Yes, that's right kids, the road can glitch 
 out from under you and leave you thinking that you just jumped off the bridge without knowing it 
 or something. And, then there is the super game-changing jump on top of your car and press the 
 Y button (button to get in the car) and just appear in your car glitch. In the game, there are 
 things like hostage missions, where if you steal a car with somebody in it, you can hold them hostage 
 for a certain amount of time and they will pay you money. What was part of the fun of this was 
 trying to get into the car before the hostages could climb out. But with this glitch, they have 
 no chance because you just appear there. And once when I did that glitch, the driver of the car 
 actually raised his arms as if to say, What the Hell just happened? This glitch even makes getaways 
 about 20X easier because you can just appear in your car and drive away. It really takes away from 
 the immersion and, ultimately, the fun. SAINTS ROW is also a suppporter of the saved by the bell 
 technique. This is a name I call games where if you have a wanted level of 5 stars during a mission 
 and you beat the mission, your entire wanted level goes back down to zero. Now this is very convenient 
 and makes the game a lot easier, but who says the game should be easier? It takes away from the 
 realism of the game.
  
  But in the end, the great graphics for a sandbox game, the awesome audio with booming bass (mostly 
 in the rap music) and the tight controls make this game an excellent fare, especially if you haven't 
 played GTA before. The fairly long main story (if not anywhere near as long as in GTA: San Andreas) 
 is engaging and well-told, if a little childish at times (and not GTA childish either, I'm talking 
 about the bad kind) . If you have played GTA though, expect to be like me, calling the local gun 
 store AmmuNation every time you see it, even after beating the game. Though this game is essentially 
 as shameless a clone of GTA as can be, it has its moments, and those moments are frequent. In the 
 eyes of most gamers it is destined to be forgotten, but it deserves much better than that. Even 
 though it is not GTA, and is not close to it even slightly, it is still a great game and should 
 be played by more than just people who are looking for a next-gen GTA fix before the fourth chapter 
 of Grand Theft Auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkmaster12
Rating: 3.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  not good graphics and i dont know what happens at the end but it sounds horrible. can someone tell 
 me what happens at the end? most games like this i dont like. i like stuff like halo, gears of war, and 
 bully. i definitly dont like this game. it is a copy-cat of gta but mostly a copy off of the warriors. the 
 only feature i like about this game is you can make what your dude looks like. this game is a rash 
 on the butt. total waste of money and time. i'd rather play fight club than this mess up. too much 
 drugs and prostitution crap in this game. my go ho in is do you i justin peter u-can be bee see 
 sea dr deer dear 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lvin5992
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Now to begin, we all know Saints Row is a rip off of GTA. But what you don't know is that it has 
 some things about it that most GTA players would wish were in their game. When you first start 
 off story mode you get to customize how you your player looks like physically. From his hair, facial 
 features, weight, muscle and ethnicity. After that you begin the game just walking down the street 
 and you see the gang you end up joining the 3rd Street Saints gang members having a shoot out with 
 another gang called the Vice Kings . Things get out of hand and you get saved by the leader of 
 the Saints named Julius. After that the real story starts to unfold.
  Now there are some things that differ in this game from GTA. One thing is store entry, in GTA games 
 whenever you go into a store you have to wait a few seconds for the game to stop loading. But in 
 Saints Row all you have to do is walk up to the store door and press Y, and wala your in. Another 
 thing is the garage were you store your cars. One hated thing about GTA is the fact that you can 
 only fit about 2 to 3 cars in the average garage. But in Saints Row all you have to do is drive 
 your car into your garage and walk out. And the car is saved, but when you walk into the garage 
 again nothing will be in there. Thats where it shines. There will be a marker right in front of 
 you garage, you walk into the marker, press Y and you see all of the cars you ever saved in there.
 
  The Sound: This game's sound is what really seperats it from GTA. If you leave your car really 
 fast and had the radio on you can still hear the music playing. And a really cool thing to do is 
 have your player turn away from the car and you can hear the sound move around the speakers on 
 your t. v. One thing that just has to be noted it the explosions. Now whats a good GTA rip off without 
 great explosions? When you blow up a car for the first time you will really know the difference 
 from Saints Row and GTA SA.
  
  The good: The game has great sound, really god graphics and a lot of things to do to get achievements 
 after beating the game. You can call a wheel woman to drive you around, some achievements you have 
 to work for and really good graphics.
  
  The bad: The game tends you drop frame rate on the high way, the missions are sometimes easy and 
 with non stop play an avid video game player can beat it fast. There are also no motorcycles, planes 
 or boats.
  
  All in all Saints Row almost just like GTA they both have good and bad things about them. But Saints 
 Row has some things about it's game that GTA has never done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenshin836
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  The question your probably asking yourself is whether or not Saint's Row is just a ripoff of GTA. 
 The answer is yes and no. There's a lot of new features that (mostly) set it apart somewhat from 
 it's counterpart. Let's go through the various sections of the game.
  
  Gameplay: Straight up GTA. You steal cars, you recruit homies, you kill people, you do missions, 
 you get respect. Yeah, all that stuff. But like I said before, there are numerous features that 
 lend the game some credit. There's a very deep character creation feature, where at the start, 
 you create what you look like. It's pretty awesome to see your own created Character interacting 
 with the various characters. You can also get a loan, get surgery, do side missions and many other 
 things.
  
  Graphics: They're good, make no mistake, but this still doesn't really look like a next-gen caliber 
 title.
  
  Sound: Fantastic. You got plenty of licensed music to listen to and all the characters are voice 
 perfectly. Voice actors like Mila Kunis, Keith David and Michael Clarke Duncan pull off some great 
 preformances.
  
  Replay Value: Just like the GTA titles, even after you beat the story, you still have a lot to 
 do and theres a lot of fun to be had in going back through the story again with a new character.
 
  
  Ultimately, your enjoyment of Saints Row will depend on how much fun you had with GTA titles and 
 whether or not you want more of that fun on the 360. Despite it's cool new features, Saint's Row 
 just can't get out of GTA's shadow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The only fun you will ever get out of this game is just the gameplay. The story isn't Metal Gear 
 but I mostly liked it for the GTA type decesions you can make. I don't really like how the cheat 
 menu is which maybe wierd. You can't save while cheats are on so useing them really isn't like 
 cheating its like pointless. I will give the 2nd a try and hopefully they can fix these problems. thank 
 you for your  Really. Well go buy it if you need 
 some new game to play or just want to burn a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row has many aspects that weve seen before. To be more specific, aspects weve seen in GTA 
 games before: gangsters, guns, cars, violence, sex, language, ect. However, the game is more than 
 just a GTA wannabe. It is actually a cool game with an interesting new take on the gameplay by 
 gaining terretories for your gang. Its a very fun aspect of the game especially once you have about 
 half of it gained.
  This games is very fun, no doubt about that, but its a little bit hard to get into. I myself had 
 to stop playing it after 3 hours or so and not play it gain for about 2 weeks before a couple of 
 times before i could actually say that i liked it. At first, you might get a little bored with 
 the game but just stick with it. It is a pretty lengthy game that can be hard at some parts. However, 
 once you start gaining terretories, it just becomes really fun. You start seeing a lot more money 
 come in, bigger houses, more clothes, better weapons. The game really does get much much better 
 about halfway through. The game is one of the most fun experiences ive had on 360 and is defenetly 
 worth playing just as long as you vow to stick with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameOver23
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The game was very fun, yes a bite off of GTA Series, but yet made itself very original and different. 
 Story line was great, I wish they can make a sequal and make another great gmae. Just the only 
 downfall to me was the ending. Very bad ending, didn't really get a lot. I recommend to a lot of 
 fans of the GTA series to play this. Also which I didn't find out was that they had a great soundtrack. 
 The radio was awesome, great soundtracks from Clipse, Turf Talk, Jin, and much more!.
  
  The game was very fun, yes a bite off of GTA Series, but yet made itself very original and different. 
 Story line was great, I wish they can make a sequal and make another great gmae. Just the only 
 downfall to me was the ending. Very bad ending, didn't really get a lot. I recommend to a lot of 
 fans of the GTA series to play this. Also which I didn't find out was that they had a great soundtrack. 
 The radio was awesome, great soundtracks from Clipse, Turf Talk, Jin, and much more!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serbianballa07
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Okay i know that most of the people that have heard of this game think its one of those crappy 
 wanna be GTA's but who ever thinks that is wrong by a long shot. This is a great game. It has a 
 fantastic story line but the story is a little short, there isn't many storyline missions but there 
 are tons of side missions or activities as they're called in the game. You can customize your own 
 character any way you want to and have hundreds of different possibilities with clothes, faces, 
 skin, anything you can imagine. In the story you're the new kid on the block and have just joined 
 the 3rd st. Saints. And are trying to work your way up and make a name for yourself. At the same 
 time you are trying to take out the other gangs and take total control of Stillwater. The story 
 also has a few twists along the way that i personally didn't expect. One thing i didnt like about 
 the story was the very very last mission when you go on the boat it just left you hanging, but 
 i guess so they could make another maybe. this game is also the first of its kind to have a online 
 mode. in the online mode you can play a variety of games like Gangsta Brawl, Team Gangsta Brawl, 
 Big Ass Chains, Team Big Ass Chains, Protect Tha Pimp, and Blinged Out Ride all of which can be 
 played as ranked or as player matches. You also have the option to create your own Gang with your 
 own name, clothes, tag, and motto. If you get this game for any reason make it the online mode 
 it is a immense amount of fun and will keep you addicted for hours at a time. The only other thing 
 I found wrong with this game was that the soundtrack was kinda boring and plain it didnt have much 
 depth to it and had some songs that people have never heard of or just wasn't that good. But overall 
 this is a great game and a great holiday gift. I strongly reconmend this game with some of the 
 great things for GTA and some extra GTA doesn't have yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_PREZIDENT
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  To many people this game is a straight up Rip-Off from the GTA series that appeared in the PS2 
 &amp; Xbox. Yes its a Rip-Off but THQ simply created its own free-roaming series.
  
  The gameplay is basically your GTA clone, complete missions, steal cars, explore the city, run 
 people over, etc. Which is fun, which could get lame after hours of playing. This is were this 
 game is different from GTA and that is online. Online is really fun which will keep you hooked 
 on. The most popular mode that people play online is; (team) gangsta brawl which is you standard 
 deathmatch, protect the pimp (name pretty much explains the concept) , blinged out ride (basically 
 pimp out you car out before the other team, and yea you drive cars around) .
  
  Graphics: well its really a big step forward of what was presented in the PS2 and Xbox. But once 
 in a while if you blow up a whole bunch of stuff up you'll get some minor Frame rate issues. Being 
 a GTA clone they should of copied some animation like, when you enter the passenger door and you 
 leave you door open it should remain open or close when you drive off. But instead the door remain 
 stiff if you drive off, but eventually it will close by it self which gets annoying. Aside from 
 that the explosion are amazing, best physics seen by far in any free roaming game. City is greatly 
 detailed and colorful. Sound: Well its set out really nice. What else can you ask for. Excellent 
 music and voice acting. Filled with humor.
  
  Value: I dont wanna spoil it for you but they should of put a better ending, or a least made a 
 plot that is some how connected to the ending.
  
  If your a GTA fan and dont mind clones of a GTA game then this should not be missed out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piecake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:27 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up with dead rising for &pound;40 i heard it was good so i thought ahh what 
 the hell, and wow was it good i was expecting true crime streets of la all over again but no Saints 
 Row has some elements that are better than in gtas. Now yes you did hear me right SOME but only 
 some not all. In this game you can shoot jack kill ramage but theres difernces like the damage 
 is a bit more realistic and you can shoot out of your car 360 degrees which is both a good thing 
 and a bad thing. But the charictor customisation is less than san andreas the grafics are better 
 but then again it is smaller that san andreas was and it is on the glorius 360. And another thing 
 its not as REAL its more midle class than san andreas was its less gangsta and more yo what up 
 dawg fake gangster. all in all an enjoyable game to kill time with some easy ap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CRS98
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a hugely inspired by the Grand Theft Auto series, that's why it makes it fun. This 
 game is most like GTA III, me agreeing with GameSpot, due to no motorcycles, umm... and other things. 
 In this game you create your guy, not wo-man, which is always the same height. You have 4 presets 
 to choose from, from Caucasian to Asian. Your silent protagonist (GTA III's Claude) also makes 
 neutral race grunts and yells when shot or on fire. Enough of the person controlled person, time 
 for other things. The city of Stilwater is a somewhat lively city considering you'll find phone 
 calls almost, maybe almost, everywhere be it taxis or bus stops. The cars are almost identical 
 to real life like the Venom is very similar to a Corvette, or The Job a H2 Hummer Limo. The cars 
 also look great, especially on the '360. I forgot about the story, sorry. You're a newly recruited 
 gangster onto the 3rd Street Saints and you must take back what is yours blah blah blah... I was 
 never interested in the story anyway. This game is most fun with cheats on, but this will take 
 away your achievements which is fine if you didn't care in the first place. I do feel a little 
 guilty when using these cheats to have almost everything my way. Enough of the good stuff. The 
 bad things to this is that you die easier, but that's due to the Halo like regeneration. The multiplayer 
 is lacking, I don't care how many game-types there are, I want more levels to Gangster Brawl. There 
 is... no... spoon? Man, I think I'm just about finished with this review, I have writer's block. 
 Well, hope you have fun with this game as I have done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxinshoes
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  ==========
  IMPRESSIVE: Captures the GTA-style of gameplay almost flawlessly // Lot's ========== to do // Amazing 
 soundtrack // It's GANGSTA!
  ============
  NEEDS WORK: Underwhelming character models // Not much variety in ============ mission structure.
 
  
  Every once in a while, you get a GTA-clone, and the majority of them turn out rubbish (I'm looking 
 at ou Driv3r and Driver: Parallel Lines) and some that JUST fall short (NARC wasn't necessarilly 
 a good game, but it was quite fun to play) , and only two games have ever captired the FULL GTA 
 experience, and one of those is based around modern warfare (in case you haven't guessed what game 
 I'm on about, it's Mercenaries) .
  
  The GTA formula is one of the hardest to master, along with the legendary Platform formula, but 
 Saints Row manages to pull it off, almost flawlessly. Saints Row prevails where most others fail, 
 the free-will and customization. In Saints Row you create a gangsta and he is Canonized into the 
 3rd Street Saints, it is then your job to help your gang take over Stilwater, by eliminating the 
 3 rival gangs, The Rollerz, Los Carnales and the Vice Kings.
  
  Aside from the character models, Stilwater looks pretty impressive, the water and explosions are 
 very clear, and cars look very streamline.
  
  In the end, Saints Row comes very close to cracking Rockstar's secret to GTA, but only just falls 
 short thanks to some gameplay issues and problems with modernity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blakster4real
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Saints row on its own is a good game. It provides a pretty large environment to play in and its 
 very easy to get into trouble so it should take you a while to get bored. It is also very easy 
 to run into some pretty bad glitches sometimes and side missions can be boring at times. The story 
 line was pretty good until the ending and the unexplained twist. The shooting mechanics are very 
 similar to GTA but i found that the driving was improved and it's pretty fun to run over people 
 and watch their bodies fly. I found the police force is pretty easy to get away from and i found 
 it rather easy to hide and let my stars go away. but overall its a good game even with the confusing 
 unexplained ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad4gamez
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Nay-sayer gamers can cut this game up all they want; but it is very much like the GTA series and 
 in my opinion, it's pretty good at it. Let's be clear, Rockstar is in a class all their own and 
 I don't think that'll ever be stripped by any company trying to shadow them. Especially when it 
 comes to sales. I know as soon as I see a Rockstar release, I'm curious and automatically think 
 of great value... meaning they usually leave you a variety of options and choice of what to do 
 and accomplish in their games. Given the explicit content style of Saints Row, it's actually scary 
 how much they do mirror each other, both in gameplay and sarcastic humor.
  
  Gameplay - if you've played GTA, you'll have no trouble getting use to Saints Row. Although, I 
 must say the driving sequences are a bit to be desired. I'm use to it now; but find it a bit tough 
 to complete missions sometimes. GTA definitely stands out here. Also, the map is a bit confusing 
 to read; but when selecting locations it does direct you through the route making it quite user 
 friendly. Graphics - Saints Row stands out here, though I'd hope so being part of the next-gen. 
 No, it's not overly realistic and a bit cartoon-ish; though its supposed to be and still very stylish 
 and detailed with great use of color. Sound - Great use of sound in the entire game. The overall 
 acting is very entertaining and funny. Can't help but NOT take it seriously. Value - lots of replay 
 value here, as was evident in GTA. There are loads of missions and general activities to complete 
 to keep you busy. Tilt - Funny and definitely a guilty pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak1991
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay for Saints Row was one of the games strong points. It portrays some awesome, 
 heated run and gun shoot-outs. It also has some ridiculous explosions from the vehicles. The story 
 for the game was very strong, but it jumped around way too much to be that of a more immersive 
 storyline. Some downsides to the story would also be that your main character is a mute, and that 
 the ending of the single-player portion of the game ends rather abruptly all before it feels like 
 its even getting started. Along with a very displeasing end cut scene. Graphics- This game definitely 
 takes full advantage of the 360's powerful hardware and presents a very easy on the eyes visual 
 presentation. The real problem that pulled down the game's score on this part where that the fact 
 that there were some major draw distance issues. Such as when you drive a vehicle on the highway 
 in the game, the highway would sometimes disappear entirely or you would be driving and cars will 
 just spawn and disappear into thin air. This also happens if you look at the buildings in the distance 
 that seem to fade away and pop-up. Now these issues are really hard to notice if your an average 
 gamer that doesn't care about stuff like that, but if you really take the time to look it is there 
 and it makes the game look so much worse than it should look.
  
  Sound- The sound of Stilwater (the main city in the game) is superbly done. The radio stations 
 in game are all so awesome! They have almost all genres including your average, rock 'n' roll station, 
 rap station, and classic rock station, amongst others. There are about 10-12 radio stations in 
 the game. The one thing that I have noticed can happen though is that in the cutscenes sometimes 
 there is some voice-acting glitches. Where the characters will be talking but you will not hear 
 anything. This happens until you exit the cutscene and then start it over. Although it doesn't 
 happen to often to be a real problem.
  
  Value- This game has great value due to its fun multiplayer including up to 12 players in one room 
 and it also supports clan matches. There are 6 main multiplayer games that you can play including 
 2 co-op missions you can play with a friend over Xbox Live. There is not 2 player split-screen 
 co-op however, which doesn't seem to be a big problem due to the fact that this game is pretty 
 much a single-player game overall. There is some significant lag here and there in the game that 
 does occur sometimes mainly in multiplayer, which can definitely get you a little ticked off after 
 happening a few times.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- Saints Row is definitely a game that should be added to your 360 collection and 
 should be picked up even if you don't play on XBL. The overall presentations of this game earns 
 it an 8.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lodark
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a game which has garnered much of its media attention from being audaciously similar 
 to Rockstars Grand Theft Auto series. Consequently, many have been quick to dismiss the title 
 as a poor imitation of the franchise that it pays homage to, but those willing to spend some time 
 roaming the mean streets of Stilwater will discover a very good game; one which not only accomplishes 
 the GTA formula with aplomb, but also improves upon it.
  
  Saints Row has a similar gangland influenced narrative to that of the Grand Theft Auto Games particular 
 San Andreas; in the games opening cutscene, your character is caught in the middle of conflict 
 between the Westside Rollerz, Los Carnales and Vice Kings, three rival gangs in the fictional American 
 city of Stilwater. Luckily, the Third Street Saints, another Stilwater gang, show up and altruistically 
 rescue you, seconds before youre about to be executed. Its not long before youre recruited to 
 join the Saints, with the remit of aiding them in reclaiming their neighbourhood and the rest of 
 the city from the other gangs. From the games initial cutscenes, it appears that this overarching 
 narrative will be largely forgettable; a mishmash of clumsy urban stereotypes with uninspired 
 macho dialogue. However, early on this soon gives way to genuine intrigue, which is helped in no 
 small part to some great voice acting from a cast which includes David Carradine, Keith David, 
 Tia Carrera and Daniel Dae Kim, amongst others. With the narrative and supporting characters established, 
 youre soon thrown into a city of pushers, pimps and gangbangers which you are freely to explore, 
 whilst also shooting and driving through various missions and objectives that you proceed through 
 in a semi-linear fashion.
  
  No matter how expansive games in this genre become, they are all fundamentally about the same thing; 
 shooting. Shooting people, shooting vehicles, shooting carelessly placed flammable barrels, and 
 so forth. As you might expect, Saints Row is no different, and includes a substantial repertoire 
 of firearms with which to wreak havoc. There are no huge surprises here; you can expect to find 
 the usual array of pistols, semi-automatic rifles, sniper rifles, rocket launchers and grenades, 
 each of which is very well realised. Rather than the weaker guns that you receive earlier in 
 the game (such as the Vice-9 pistol) becoming obsolete when more powerful weapons come to hand 
 later on, theres definitely a sense that each weapon is suited to a particular situation, ensuring 
 that your entire cache remains useful for the duration of the game.
  
  Instead of the generous weapon target-locking system seen in the Grand Theft Auto games and other 
 titles in the genre, Volition has chosen to incorporate a braver, more first-person inspired method 
 of aiming into Saints Row where the player simply controls a crosshair in the centre of the screen 
 with the right thumbstick, squeezing off rounds from their chosen firearm with the right trigger. 
 This really gives the player a great sense of control, and makes the games run-and-gun action 
 immensely satisfying, and the games use of real-time physics contributes significantly to this; 
 letting off a shotgun in someones back, and seeing them react to the angle of your shot is one 
 of the many sadistic pleasures that can be gained from the games various weapons.
  
  The manual aiming system also permits players to shoot whilst driving; a feat which is asked of 
 the player on several occasions throughout the various storyline missions. However, this act is 
 significantly difficult, not least because the aiming reticule shares the same control as the camera, 
 often obscuring your view of the road ahead when lining up the perfect shot. If youre anything 
 like me, trying to not wrap your car around a lamppost whilst shooting out an enemy cars tyres 
 will usually leave you feeling like you need an extra hand.
  
  Unfortunately, cars are about the only method of transport in the game; there are the occasional 
 variations on this such as golf carts and construction machines, but dont expect to be piloting 
 planes, speedboats, or even driving motorcycles. This often makes the driving portion of missions 
 fairly repetitive. Despite this, the cars that are featured a massively varied in terms of size, 
 speed and handling, ranging from sports cars to articulated trucks. There is, of course, the option 
 to augment your vehicle at modification shops, with enhancements such as nitrous boosts and hydraulics. 
 To further enhance the driving experience, Volition has introduced a navigation system which has 
 been integrated into the games minimap, as a remedy to the vague objective indicators that have 
 appeared in other games. When the player is given a new waypoint, it is not only marked on the 
 map, but the most efficient route to it is plotted out with dotted guidelines. The route dynamically 
 adjusts itself relative to the players position in the game world, so youll never find yourself 
 stuck on the highway, heading away from your objective again. As I mentioned earlier, the Saints 
 must battle against three other gangs to reclaim their turf. As you might expect, each of these 
 gangs has a separate narrative to play through, though it is quite possible to dart from one set 
 of missions to another. As you would expect from a game which shares many similarities with the 
 Grand Theft Auto games, the format of these missions probably requires little introduction; drive 
 here, shoot this, and so forth. With that said, the structure of the various missions is actually 
 quite different from that of other games in the genre; rather than non-story missions being auxiliary 
 to the game as a means of unlocking secrets or earning kudos from your friends, theyre actually 
 essential to the progression of the game. Each of the missions in the three main storylines requires 
 you to have a certain amount of Respect, which can be earned by completing the various non-story 
 missions that are littered throughout Stilwater. Whilst this is an interesting mechanic, it sometimes 
 kills the momentum of the narrative, especially in the later stages of the various storylines.
 
  
  Thankfully, most of these missions are lot of fun, and dont give you a sense of burning resentment 
 every time you play them. In addition to the usual assortment of hitman, neighbourhood reclamation, 
 racing, pimping and robbery activities, there are a number of new missions that explore other facets 
 of gameplay. For example, the Drug Trafficking activity lets you ride shotgun with a dealer as 
 he makes his neighbourhood rounds, and protect him and his clients from the police and other gangs. 
 This allows the player to concentrate wholly on the act of shooting whilst the AI takes care of 
 the driving, which often leads to some exciting and cinematic chases. Playing to the strengths 
 of the games ragdoll character physics, Volition have also included an Insurance Fraud game, where 
 the objective is to throw your character into the midst of oncoming traffic, incurring cash bonuses 
 for hitting certain types of vehicle. The Stronghold activities see you (and a handful of your 
 gang buddies) infiltrating enemy hideouts on foot, and dispatching a requisite number of rival 
 gang members whilst completing other objectives, such as destroying drug caches. These are often 
 the most enjoyable missions in the game, and focus on simple run-and-gun gameplay often serves 
 as a good method of blowing off steam after enduring one of the games more frustrating storyline 
 objectives. And by this token, its the new elements that Saints Row brings to the table are often 
 the most endearing; those that take the player beyond the simple feelings of playing a GTA clone. 
 Although some of these elements take a while to materialise, some are obvious upon starting a new 
 game.
  
  One of the first things new players will encounter is the incredibly deep character creation system 
 that Volition has engineered, which grants access to several hundred individual options with which 
 to sculpt the visage of your Marcel Marceauesque protagonist. Despite all of these options, editing 
 your characters physique is fairly limited; muscle and fat can be altered via two independent 
 sliders, but the height is locked. With that said, its very easy to overlook, given the complexity 
 of the head and facial customization. Its also greatly satisfying to see your avatar not only 
 running around within the game world, but also appearing in all of the cut-scenes and interacting 
 with other characters. The appearance of your criminal avatar can be further modified after this 
 initial creation process; as well as the usual tattoos and haircuts that can be bought from in-game 
 shops, its also possible to visit the plastic surgeon to re-edit your characters look. Of course, 
 you can also purchase clothes which, on top of allowing you to make your character as goofy or 
 cool as you please, also have modifiers which augment the amount of respect that is received upon 
 completing a mission or objective; flying the Saints gang colours (purple) or wearing more expensive 
 items generally has a more profound effect upon this. There are several other shops in the game, 
 where players are able to purchase various items such as weapons, food and vehicle upgrades. Whilst 
 weapons and food are instrumental in your progression, the ability to buy drugs and alcohol seems 
 less necessary. However, downing a beer during a fire fight slows the action right down, allowing 
 you to react quickly to enemy gunfire. Similarly, cosmetically pimping your ride has no discernable 
 effect on gameplay whatsoever, but the act of adding rims, spoilers and a pearlescent paintjob 
 to your newly acquired sports car seems essential, given the setting of the game. The existence 
 of these stores adds significantly to the players immersion, not only because of their diversity, 
 but also because of the manner in which the player can seamlessly move between them and the game 
 world. Its also refreshing that each individual shop has a unique layout, which means that should 
 you choose to hold up its proprietor (yet another minigame) , your trip to the safe will be different 
 every time.
  
  Several elements that contribute to Saints Rows success are those that benefit from the next-gen 
 horsepower granted by the Xbox 360, the graphics certainly being one of the more noteworthy examples. 
 The games presentation is very impressive across the board, from the highly detailed character 
 models to the fire and water shaders that add a good deal of believability to your destruction. 
 Dynamic lighting and shadows add significantly to the atmosphere, whereas weather system and accelerated 
 day cycle contribute to the game worlds immersive quality and sense of drama, especially when 
 the stormy, brooding skies of Stilwaters night shift to the warm hues of morning over the course 
 of a single mission. I should also mention that Saints Row has some of the best explosions Ive 
 ever seen in a videogame, and trying to create the most ridiculously overblown Michael Bay pyrotechnics 
 is almost a game in itself; tossing a grenade beneath a moving car will typically send the flaming 
 wreck spinning ten metres into the air and spewing out its mechanical guts, before the torched 
 husk slams back down onto the middle of a road, and, if youre lucky, another vehicle or pedestrian. 
 However, even the 360 has trouble keeping up with the action, and the framerate occasionally takes 
 a hit when theres quite a lot going on, though this isnt enough to kill the gameplay for any 
 significant amount of time. The games visual style is perhaps indistinct, although it seems that 
 realism was definitely the goal. Initially, the aesthetic and layout of Stilwater seems somewhat 
 generic, but once youve spent some time exploring its many districts, suburbs and barrios (its 
 size lays somewhere between Vice City and San Andreas) it becomes much easier to recognise where 
 you are by particular landmarks, and see that theres actually quite a lot of character in the 
 city. By this token, the city represents a playground of destruction that youll want to revisit 
 and explore long after the main storylines have been completed.
  
  As is often the case in video games, audio is initially overlooked in favour of bigger, shiner 
 features. When you become conscious of the audio in Saints Row, it becomes easy to appreciate how 
 it perfectly compliments the rest of the game. Bullets ring out across the urban battlefield, adding 
 gravitas to the various firearms, and the muffled audio of recently abandoned cars stereos adds 
 an ambient soundtrack to your rampage. Like the Grand Theft Auto games, Saints Row features several 
 different radio stations, featuring humorous talk shows, licensed music spanning several genres, 
 and the kind of advertisements and DJ banter that you might expect from the genre. The licensed 
 music is incredibly varied, including alternative, rock, classical, and easy listening stations. 
 Most of the music is contemporary (and therefore lacking the novelty value of older tracks; not 
 necessarily a bad thing) , although classic songs like Round And Round by Ratt and anything on the 
 easy listening station perfectly set the tone for the kind of comic violence that you frequently 
 find yourself indulging in.
  
  Perhaps its worth mentioning, almost as a footnote, that Saints Row features a fairly extensive 
 multiplayer mode for Xbox Live and System Link, including variations on deathmatch and capture 
 the flag, as well as specially designed cooperative missions. I have to admit that I havent tried 
 the multiplayer content myself, but from what I hear, its fun, if not slightly buggy at present. 
 Xbox Live has a great infrastructure in place for hassle-free multiplayer gaming, but I think that 
 Saints Row would have benefited from a multiplayer mode for two or more players on one console; 
 perhaps something akin to the cooperative segment of San Andreas, which was ridiculously fun, despite 
 movement being limited to a small area around both players. Games certainly dont have to be original 
 to be good, and Saints Row is certainly a testament to this philosophy. Where lesser titles such 
 as Activisions True Crime give the impression that the GTA formula has been mimicked in an effort 
 to carjack the success of its blood-drenched lineage, spending just ten minutes on the mean streets 
 of Stilwater gives good indication that Volition are interested in pushing the genre forwards, 
 if not in storytelling and thematic originality, then certainly in terms of gameplay mechanics 
 and appearance. I would dearly love to see a sequel to Saints Row, although Im curious as to how 
 it would be received in a post-GTA 4 market. Still, given that Rockstars next-gen effort isnt 
 due on shelves for twelve months at the very least, I think its fair to say that Saints Row will 
 have few problems securing itself a place in the black, destructive hearts of gamers looking to 
 flex their gangland muscle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjcowley
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Continuously compared to GTA in almost every way, I felt Saints Row tweaked minor areas to give 
 a great entry to the genre in the next gen line up.
  
  Customising your character is the first step of the game. Take care, as you'll see alot of your 
 player in cut scense through out the game. However if you felt you gave you gangster to big a nose, 
 or if he is in the running for the next series of The Biggest Loser you'll get the opportunity 
 to alter their appearance at the Cosmetic Shop any time you require.
  
  The Story unfolds as you lend your assistance to the 3rd Street Saints, the upcoming gang of the 
 neighborhood. Your goal? Systematically take over the entire city of Stillwater.
  
  Fans of GTA III and onwards will notice the similarity in genre, however as previosly mentioned, 
 it is the minor things that make it a step ahead in this reviewer's opinion. Little things like 
 the button layouts, graphical improvements and sound tracks play towards this. Other noticables 
 are save anywhere feature, and the play your own tracks. The downside I found was the glitches 
 which I cannot rule out as my own system's fault. I found myself driving a car and it suddenly 
 dissapearing with me in a sitting position with no way to move. Also the a constant drama of getting 
 stuck somewhere in the world . These bugs plagued my gaming experience often and almost led to 
 me throwing the disc out the window in anger.
  
  In any case, the game will satisfy, and if you don't purchase, I strongly recommend a couple of 
 lends from Blockbuster to a least play through to the dramatic ending! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxx_photo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 12, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, I want to tell people that this is not the typical life a real life gang member 
 lives. With that out of the way, this is a great game.
  
  While it is GTA-style, I don't think this is a GTA ripoff as some have said. The game stands on 
 its own with solid gameplay and a great story with good cutscenes.
  
  You start as an innocent bistandard and get saved by The Saints. You then, of course, join The 
 Saints and begin living the gang life. The open world gives you the freedom to select from any 
 of about 15 activities to play. You can take your time with these and play them as you feel like 
 it until you feel like playing the actual missions that move the story along.
  
  Some of the missions include drug trafficing (where you ride shotgun and defend a drug pusher as 
 he makes deals) , chop shop (where you bring certain cars in for money as in (Gone in 60 Seconds 
 ) , and mayhem (where you cause as much monetary damage as possible to beat the clock) . Each successful 
 mission rewards you with cash and credit. The credit is important because you have to build it 
 up to qualify for The Saints to send you out on a mission against the three rival gangs. The missions 
 are nice with different subjects for each gang instead of the usual crud in other games where you 
 do the same thing for each faction.
  
  The only real drawback to the game is the graphics. There are great textures and shading on some 
 things, but others just fall short. You don't buy this kind of game for the graphics though. Don't 
 bother renting it. Just buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonydeloache
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Under threat from rival gangs and corrupt officials, the 3rd Street Saints must conquer the city 
 of Stilwater or face destruction. From the spectacular opening battle to regain control of the 
 local hood, Saints Row offers the freedom to explore StilWater, a living, breathing city. Players 
 are free to engage in the multitude of different activates at their leisure, all while building 
 up respect in a gameplay-rich world. Build enough respect and the 3rd Street Saint's lieutenants 
 will trust the player with more dangerous missions. Saints Row, however, portrays Volition (The 
 Punisher, Red Faction 1 &amp; 2, Descent: Free Space) as an erudite student of the genre. This 
 next-gen, open-world action-shooting-racing game solves numerous problems born in GTA, and the 
 Champaign, Ill.-based studio has whittled away at the concept, forming a highly polished design 
 that plays well, feels good, and that functions smoothly and with great ease of use. Saints Row 
 is not only a 30-40 hour single-player game with a smart progression system, a breadth of engaging 
 missions, and tons of car and character customization, it's the first game in this genre to successfully 
 negotiate online and multiplayer waters, including online and SystemLink co-op functionality.
 
  
  Drive-by shootings enable you to shoot along with your homies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  great game to play better than san andreas but gta has a better story line but this game is great!!! 
 its feels like grand theft auto just better grafics because its on xbox 360 i highly recommend 
 it to any grand theft auto fan so yea go to the store and get buying lol its a rip off of grand 
 theft auto but its really worth it i love it and i think you will too. the worst part of the game 
 is some twitchs and glitchs but the rest is amazing. best shooter game out there for xbox 360 and 
 probably for any other game system out there!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isaach11687
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Some of the things in Saints Row are not in the GTA series and most of those things are 
 quite entertaining. The game is fun and all the different activities are all entertaining, even 
 though they seem to get tendious after a while. With many things to do and many places to explore, 
 the gameplay has lots to work with and overall it contains it fairly well.
  
  Graphics: Besides the ragdoll physics, which are histaricle, the graphics seem last gen with no 
 load times. Even with the largely massive world, to me the graphics are just mediocre.
  
  Sounds: I love the sound track in this game. I would fine my self just driving around listening 
 to the radio without getting anything done with my progression in the game. The voice acting is 
 also quite suprisingly good. Just makes the story more interesting.
  
  Value: A good 20 to 40 hours of gameplay... Enough said. Tilt: Saints row is a pretty well round 
 game. With some minor flaws, like multiplayer and graphics, but overall i would own this game just 
 to last you over untill GTA comes to us... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmcjdking
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Bor-motherfreaking-ing!
  
  If you like playing GTA3, Vice City, Liberty City, San Adreas (which are all the same game with 
 DIFFERENT skins) , then you'll love this. Saint's Row is better than the GTA series, but it still 
 sucks.
  
  GTA is so overplayed, overused, and unfun. Senselessly murdering people with generic mini-games 
 is not my idea of a fun game. Being a gangster is also not my idea of a fun game. To me, this game 
 is absolute drivel, unworthy or both my money and my time.
  
  Avoid this game.
  
  Unless you like playing more GTA. Which in that case go ahead and buy and play this game, because 
 it IS better than the GTA stories in every since... which are vastly overrated, anyways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_anvil
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  I was really looking forward to this game for quite a while, turns out i really shouldnt of got 
 so excited! the game is ok, but its not really much better than GTA at all, graphics are an improvement 
 but thats about it.
  Most of the missions are pretty much the same thing over and over but with a different colour gang 
 shooting at you each time.
  Online the game got worse for me really, i like the fact you can form your own gang and that, however 
 the gameplay seemed laggy and boring (to be fair though iv only done it a couple of times so maybe 
 i just joined crappy sessions) .
  I wouldnt bother buying this game id save ya money and buy Call of Duty 3 or Gears of War, i think 
 il be getting alot more use out of them once my xbox gets sent back to me (its broken for the first 
 time, and hopefully the last time!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  this game is fricking awesome, yes some say it is a gta clone I say It is its own game with its 
 own niffity tricks. from now on I will never compare a game to gta I will now compare to saints 
 row. the gameplay is the best thing about this game, which counts, First off let me say that they 
 got rid of that stupid @ss autolock-on system but instead give you a crosshair that plays like 
 a third-person shooter, which makes the game 10x funner. They added a crap load of customization 
 from pimp suits, to basketball jerseys to chains. And the best thing on the game is the online, 
 yes i said it online! the game modes consist of protect tha pimp, team gangsta brawl, gangsta brawl, 
 big ass chains and team big chains and last but not least blinged out ride. The game has a selection 
 of guns that are familier, from aks to shotguns to rpgs. increadible online, and single player, 
 and to top it off a kick @ss sound track this game is a definate buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ss3r
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  While Saints Row will, and can, in many ways be compared to the Grand Theft Auto series, then it 
 delivers a new and different experience, to the famous Sandbox sort-of gameplay, that the Grand 
 Theft Auto series are known for.
  
  Even though it could any many ways seem like a 'Rip-off' of Grand Theft Auto, then the game stands 
 out, and seems somewhat far from the Grand Theft Auto series.
  
  Once you start the game, you'll have to create your character - This is the first step towards 
 making it into the row.
  There are many options to choose from when it comes to creating and customizing your character, 
 however you may only choose one gender - Male.
  There are a few presets for the Skin color, so you can easily choose which one you want - Caucasian, 
 African American , Asian and Hispanic.
  If none of these four presets fit your liking though, then you may always choose to customize the 
 skin color, with two bars that you slide left and right, to change the skin tone. Well, skin ain't 
 everything. You'll also be able to change a lot of other things such as hair, eyes, beard, shape 
 of the face, body shape and so on. Basicly, there'll be a lot of options available for you.
  Of course, your character won't be running around naked, so you'll start off with some basic clothing 
 - A black t-shirt, and a pair of pants. Once you've made some money, you can of course purchase 
 some new clothing. There are multiple stores spread out in the city of Stillwater, and you might 
 be able to find something that you like.
  
  Clothing are not the only thing you can purchase - You can also purchase jewelry, glasses, tattoos, 
 watches, drugs, alcohol, a new haircut, and even a plastic surgery, if you're not happy with the 
 way your character looks.
  Besides from all these things for your character, then you can also fix your car. You can add a 
 lot of things to the car, by driving to a car mechanic.
  New rims, spoilers, body kit, nitrous hydraulics and much more can be installed to your car. (And 
 don't worry about getting it destroyed - Simply go back to a mechanic, and you can get it back 
 for $500) .
  
  Speaking of cars, then there are a lot of them in this game. I don't know the exact number, but 
 I've heard that its around 90 cars.. However, cars are the only thing you'll be able to drive in 
 this game - There are no bikes, helicopters, boats or whatsoever.
  That may sound like a bad thing, but Saints Row is still enjoyable, despite of the limited vehicle 
 choice, and you will continue to find new cars throughout the game.
  
  The story behind Saints Row is quite simple, and if you've played the demo, then you have already 
 been given an introduction to the story behind the game.
  You're rescued by the 3'rd Street Saints (Wears purple) , as a fight breaks loose between the West 
 Side Rollers (Wears blue) , and the Vice Kings (Wears Yellow) , yet the Carnales (Wears red) , earlier 
 referred to as Los Carnales, will join the fight. Julius, the leader of the 3'rd Street Saints 
 will ask you to come to the church, which is where the Saints hang out, if you wish to be a 'part 
 of the solution'. You'll have to get into the 3'rd Street Saints first though, which can prove 
 tough for new players, especially if you aren't familiar with the controls.
  
  I'm going to leave the story behind Saints Row, because I don't wish to ruin the experience for 
 players, who haven't played the game.
  Controls are very much like Grand Theft Auto series, with some differences of course.
  One major 
 difference is, that you use the right stick to control the reticle. This can be a bit troubling 
 when you're driving, and trying to hit something meanwhile. (Since you use (A) and (X) to drive 
 forward and backwards.) Otherwise, then if you're familiar with Grand Theft Auto, then you shouldn't 
 have too many problems with this one.
  
  Graphics play a huge role in this game. As it is a Next-gen game, great graphics are expected from 
 it.. And the game delivers that. However, there are a few glitches sometimes, but that's almost 
 impossible to avoid, when creating a game for such a new console. The worst part is, that the game 
 sometimes drops to relatively low Frames per Second, if too much is happening on the screen. (Explosions, 
 lots of cars etc) Despite the frames drop that happens sometimes, then the graphics looks very, 
 very nice, and fits the theme.
  One of the best things they've done, is the explosions. Destroying cars will never get tiresome 
 in this game. The explosions are simply that well done - The car parts fly to every side, and you 
 may even get hit. The sound effects in Saints Row are quite enjoyable - Voice acting was done nicely, 
 and the sounds from cars, weapons, explosions and such, are done very nicely as well. (Again, you'll 
 never get tired of exploding stuff.)
  Other then the normal sounds, then there are of course also music.
  You'll be able to choose 
 between a rather fine selection of music stations, when driving in a car. (And, once you leave 
 the car, you'll still be able to hear it, though not as loud, and it sounds like you're standing 
 outside the car and the music is still playing inside it. Amazing!)
  If you don't like the music they're playing on the radio stations, then you can purchase your own. 
 You may simply go to a 'Sratch that' music store, and choose between a lot of music. (And by a 
 lot, then I really meant a lot!) Then, you can play them in your Audio Player, by pressing start, 
 and pressing left or rigth, until you get to the Audio Player. (An MP3.) Then, play your new music!
 
  
  Also, another worthy mentioning about this game, when it comes to all the technical things: Ragdoll 
 effects. Basicly, when you hit someone, then he or she will then react as if it was reality. If 
 you drive into someone at high speed, then you'll most likely send them flying quite far. This 
 does not only make the game more realistic, but also far more enjoyable. I mean, who could resist 
 plowing down people one after one, seeing them fly away like crazy? No one!
  However, if you're against violence, then you probably won't like this, nor the game overall.. 
 It's quite violent, so you'll have to be fine with this, and I can understand why some parents 
 won't let their kids play this, even though the world of Stillwater is not reality, then it captures 
 it nicely.
  
  You'll have a lot to do in the city of Stillwater. Not only are there the story missions, but also 
 activities, here's a small list and description of them:
  
  Snatch - Drive around and find 'Women' and bring them back to the brothel.
  Demolition Derby 
 - Go crazy in the Derby, destroying as many cars as you can within the time limit.
  Hitman - Find your target, and kill him with a chosen weapon.
  Escort - Avoid the cameras, while 
 the strippers are giving the costumers a good time.
  Hijacking - Find your target, and steal the car. Then, bring it back to the garage.
  Mayhem - 
 Destroy! Destroy anything in an area before the time runs out. (Bring a lot of guns!)
  Chop Shop - Find a certain car, then bring it back. Easy money, eh!
  Insurance Fraud - Get hurt, 
 and you get money. Get enough money within the time limit.
  Racing - Race the Streets of Stillwater to earn some respect and money.
  Drug Trafficking - Drive 
 around with the drug dealer, and protect him meanwhile.
  Yep, sure is a lot to do. And there are eight levels of each activity, and it gets tougher for 
 each level!
  
  As if this wasn't enough, then it actually doesn't stop here. Saints Row has online play, if you 
 have Xbox Live Gold membership.
  There are tons of different things you can do here - Player matches, ranked matches, create gangs, 
 view stats, purchase clothing for your online wardrobe and so on. (Note that you only earn money 
 from Ranked Matches.)
  There are quite a few different modes to play - Blinged out Ride, Protect tha Pimp, simple fights 
 and the best - Coop!
  If you've heard a rumor about the game being laggy online, then it might have been true. However, 
 they've updated the game not so long ago, which fixed the graphics for CRT-TVs, as well as the 
 lag. I have not experienced any lag online, while playing Saints Row.
  
  Basicly, Saints row is a game with a lot of things to do. The game has excellent graphics, a fine 
 story, a lot of modes, a lot of collectibles etc.
  If you're into these sort of Sandbox games, then this shouldn't be missed. You can find it relatively 
 cheap, that's what I did, and then I couldn't resist to purchase the game - And so far, then I 
 nowhere near regret my purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BK-Sleeper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto.
  It's a household name in the gaming industry, with maybe one of the largest fanbases, and some 
 of the most memorable moments in gaming history.
  
  After Grand Theft Auto 3 debuted on the PS2 and sold countless copies, many clones followed afterwards, 
 and with horrible results. With the exception of a few games. Saint's Row is one of those few games.
 
  
  The story starts out in an awkward fashion, with just you walking down the street of you 'hood. 
 That's when gang violence suddenly erupts right infront of you, and when you're about to get capped, 
 Julius and Troy of the 3rd Street Saints save you. With an offer to clean up the streets, you relunctantly 
 join the Saints and wage a war against the other corrupt gangs of the city.
  
  The character creation is the very first thing you start with. It ranges in races from caucasion, 
 african, and asian. You can change everything from eye tilt, to muscle tone. That's pretty deep, 
 though for reasons unknown, sometimes the end result isn't very satisfying. During the game if 
 you ever want to change you appearance, even race, you can go to a cosmetic surgery center, and 
 with a hefty wallet, change everything about yourself.
  
  The graphics are extremely more detailed and eye-popping than the Grand Theft Auto textures. Shadows 
 are even detailed for signs, and follow suit with the time of day and position of the sun. Even 
 the explosions and car damage is satisfying.
  
  The music isn't much better than the radio hits from Grand Theft Auto, for the reasons that it's 
 all original music, but once in a while you hear a song that's pretty good and easy to get in with 
 the beat. Listening to the dialogue from characters on the street is something to smile at as well.
 
  
  Gameplay is one of the strong points. All the missions are played out as either 'kill this' or 
 'steal this' or 'guard this' which make for exciting missions. To continue the story, it's required 
 to play out in little activites such as snatch and drug trafficing to gain respect. Most of the 
 missions are easy to follow, and also gradually gain difficulty. One of the most memorable and 
 disturbingly entertaining acitivites is insurance fraud. That's the one thing I recommend. When 
 you're a little short on class, as well, you can even rob stores.
  
  Saint's Row is rated M for matures. It retails for $59.99. It's a must-buy for fanatics of gang 
 wars, stealing cars, and a must-rent for casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -JoshP-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is set in the town of Stillwater, you play as a low level thug and you must rise up 
 the ranks to be one of the most strongest and feared gangster. The story and structure is somewhat 
 similar to Grand Theft Auto III in which you must run errands for people in order to gain respect 
 in order to advance through the story. The gameplay in the game is very similar to the GTA series, 
 you can run, jump, sprint, shoot, basically everything you'd expect. Unlike GTA, there are no motorbikes, 
 planes or BMX's. What really sets Saint's Row apart is that there is no auto-aim and this is linked 
 in with the physics, the game uses the Havoc physics which is commonly known as Rag doll . If you 
 decide to shoot someone in the foot they will fall down accordingly. Another element to the game 
 is Respect , where you must play Activities to earn this to play the next story mission, you can 
 do Activities such as Insurance Fraud where you must throw yourself in front of oncoming cars, 
 trains, smash into lamp posts and so on, and then there's Mayhem, Snatch, Hijacking etc.
  
  The graphics in Saint's Row don't really define next gen but they do raise the bar for free roaming 
 genre graphics, the textures are a little iffy in areas and you do see the occasional frame rate 
 drop but apart from that it's a great looking game, the character models are realistic, the clothes 
 and jewellery are in proportion and look great, the vehicles have a unique look to them and have 
 that urban tone to them. The best graphical achievement in this game are the buildings, when walking 
 around Stillwater you'll see the shadows on the street and on your character, with the lighting 
 too this is what makes the graphics stand out more than any other game thus far.
  
  The sound is by far the best aspect of the game, with a full star cast, licensed soundtrack, hilarious 
 pedestrian comments and brilliant gun shots, it makes Saint's Row's sound unbeatable out of all 
 the Xbox 360 games out so far. The cast includes Michael Clarke Duncan, Keith David, Daniel Dae 
 Kim and many more recognizable voices which are played extremely well. The soundtrack covers all 
 genres of music, to hip-hop and indie rock and from classical to techno; everyone will find a favorite 
 radio station. Pedestrians... from the simple f*ck off to a story about there grandma all the comments 
 are equally funny.
  
  Saint's Row will take the average gamer around 15 - 20 hours to complete, that's including building 
 your respect meter up, then there's the activities to do which get you the games achievements. 
 The game doesn't suffer from a substantial amount of lag since the patch has come out, the game 
 modes and maps are enough to keep you from coming back to this game but the bulk of this game is 
 the single player campaign.
  
  For those achievement addicts out there I'll have you know the points on this game can be easy, 
 for the first 400 or so... you'll get 40 points for completing each of the gang's story missions 
 and there are 3 stories, plus and extra 160 for completing all 3 stories. Then there's activity 
 points which are arguably the hardest ones to get, takes time but it's all about the points now. 
 We also have the ones such as Cover a total distance of 26.2 on foot which you'll pick up early 
 in the game. Finally the online achievements which vary from Kill 50 Pimps to Gain a rank of Gangsta 
 .
  
  All in all, Saint's Row is a brilliant achievement in itself and it just shows what we could expect 
 and more from GTA in 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacock1089
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is oone of the best games that I have played in a long time. The only reason why I say 
 that Saints Row is better than GTA is that almost every single car can be stored in the gurage. 
 If you don't want to take any cars out of your guarage than just hyjack any car and it is pretty 
 fast. You could costimize any car in this game (except for the PO PO) and you get a sence of acomplishment 
 by doing so. The story line is great and your charecter doesn't talk intell the last gang missions. 
 The ending is dissapointing beacause when you beat the main story line you get two extra missions 
 and thier pretty easy. When you are done you get a cutscene and you die and credits show and you 
 respawn to your last checkpoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thagodfather69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  Saints Row was released with many people think this was a just a plain copy off of the Grand Theft 
 Auto series. The only simularity I see in the games is the  theme. 
 This game however, has many highly improved qualities.
  
  Gameplay: As I said before, many people believe this is a GTA spin-off. The attribute of gameplay 
 is the thing thats cloned from GTA, which was a wise choice, considering GTA has the best gameplay 
 of any game out there. There are plenty of missions in this game, and I mean plenty. About 7-10 
 missions for each gang (Los Carnales, Vice Kings, and the Westside Rollers) . I found the ability 
 of customizing my car addictive and I have about 10 cars in my garage on the game. The clothing 
 customibility is even better than the cars, considering theirs 0ver 100 ways to customizing your 
 person. The multiplayer on Xbox Live is even better than the single player, with 8 game modes to 
 choose from to play. Gameplay is by far the best attribute of Saints Row.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are near from perfect. In all the times I have played this game I have never 
 seen the frame-rate drop. Blowing up cars looks absolutely beautiful and every person in the game 
 is made with complete body and face detail. Sound: All of the guns shooting and cars exploding 
 sound to real, which makes the sound aspect of Saints Row stand out from other shooting games. 
 Also, the music on this game is in a great variety, complete with hip-hop, rock, and classical 
 type music.
  
  Value: The value of this game is decent. Saints Row has replay value only if you really love this 
 game, or if you are suprisingly addictive to the multiplayer. There isn't much else I can say about 
 value.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I love GTA, the gameplay is a clone of GTA..... whats not to love!!
  
  My advice: 
 By this game if you like GTA. Buy this game if you live multiplayer. Buy this game if you like 
 to play games that are amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameshdhvmore
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  Simply put, the game's not as good as GTA after you've finished it. The story is awful, no matter 
 what you've already read. It's just gangs bickering, that's all. They try to show how the gangs 
 affect the town, but overall the story is just gangs doing what gangs do. Also, the size of the 
 city is quite a letdown for what you'd expect from a 360. When you add the fact that there are 
 no bikes, boats, or planes, you can imagine how repetitive the missions become. The weapon selection 
 is entirely predictable with the exception of one that is unlockable. There are less options for 
 clothes than in San Andreas, and the car mod options are bare minimum aside from paint selection. 
 The side missions are more diverse (and a couple are very fun) , but only a few have decent rewards, 
 and some are completely unfinished. For example, the Hitman activity gives you a picture, a weapon 
 of choice, and a neighborhood. That's it. You get no other information of any kind on the target, 
 so knowing when and exactly where to find them is terribly annoying, often involving a couple hours 
 of aimless driving only to find the target in a completely different part of the city.
  The game does have its upsides, such as turn-by-turn directions and allowing any one garage to 
 hold all of your cars. The Cell Phone is a nice touch (though I've never found a real use for any 
 of the homies and the Wheel Woman drives painfully slow) . There are also a few moments of surprising 
 realism in the game. Most of the AI is predictable and still frustratingly dumb, but occasionally 
 you'll catch your followers throwing a grenade into a cluster of police cars before you can. Other 
 times, while in a car, a follower might shoot out a tire or aim directly at the driver, instead 
 of just shooting wildly. Sadly though, these great moments are very rare.
  
  All and all, the game just left me unsatisfied after completing it. I read many reviews before 
 picking it up, and all of them mentioned new features that GTA-type games should have had all along. 
 I haven't seen nearly enough of them. Why can't your followers get a car of their own and FOLLOW 
 you? Why can't you give them the weapon you want them to use? Why can't you give them simple commands? 
 If there were activities where you drove around making money, why couldn't you call someone for 
 that at any time without it having to be an activity? Why didn't they borrow simple elements from 
 other games like taking a human shield or slow-motion dives or even better hand-to-hand combat? 
 Do all cars always have to have the same two colors of smoke, then fire destruction process?
  The more I write this the more I don't like the game. San Andreas had surprising weapons, transportation 
 of all kinds, and missions that ranged from simple run and gun to skydiving to flamethrowing a 
 marijuana field and even casino heists. Saints Row is just gangs being gangs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillon_o4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok from the get go everyone is going to compare this to GTA, as we all know. Ok when I first heard 
 of this game I thought O another one of those cheap GTA copy-ers But after playing it, I can honestly 
 say that although it copies some of GTA basic idea's (car jacking, gang stuff) there isn't much 
 simular.
  
  Ok now if we're going to compare it to GTA, don't compare it to San Andreas. Why? Because San Andreas 
 is GTA's like 4th game in the series. Saint's Row is the 1st game in it's series so lets treat 
 it like one.
  
  What are the good things about it?
  Many times while playing this, and using some of it's new functions, you'll say to yourself Why 
 the F#@K didn't anyone think of this sooner?! There are a little gameplay things that you would 
 have died for to have in past GTA's. THE SHOOTING SYSTEM - it is simply great. And compared to 
 GTA the best thing ever invented, o and scrolling weapons easy and quick, way better than GTA. 
 Water warp to the shore, very nice. The story although I guess argueably short, is very fun. What 
 is bad about it?
  Yep there are some bad things. 1st of I have noticed a few glitches while running of driving. It's 
 been 2 to be exact both of them really didn't bother my gameplay, but they are glitches so yea. 
 2nd and most important, size. Although it's not small by any means, it's not exactly big. I think 
 it could have been a little bigger, like one more island the same size as the other 2. Cars, yeah 
 there could have been some more, but more or less some more variety. There should have atleast 
 been motorcycles and boats. After all the water is so pretty you need a boat to show it off.
  
  In the end, I think this is a great game and will prolly lead to a very good sequal, and even 
 if it doesn't. I guarantee Rockstar will take some notes and take some of Saint's Row's gameplay 
 mechanics, and I prey the shooting system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxrulze
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  There's been more than enough said about how Saints Row mirrors the GTA series in almost every 
 facet of the game. The truth is... well it's the truth, but that doesn't mean it isn't worth playing. 
 As a matter of fact, as much as it takes from GTA, it does it better in many ways.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay of Saints Row isn't innovative, sure, but it's just so damn fun! 
 There is always something to do around town. Feel like mindlessly throwing yourself into oncoming 
 traffic for a while? You can do it. Feel like hopping in a car and picking up some biatches and 
 get paid for it? You can do it. Feel like helping out the local drug dealers? Yeah you guessed 
 it - you can do it. Although the main story missions can get repetitive (which doesn't mean they 
 aren't fun) there is more than enough to do on the side to keep yourself busy, or just have some 
 fun.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Ok so some will argue that considering this is a next-gen game, the graphical style used in Saints 
 Row is complete ass. This is only partly true. The models and environments are quite fitting for 
 the setting of the game. They aren't meant to be uber detailed and realistic. They are instead 
 meant to reflect the story. The graphics do this great justice. There are some rough spots though: 
 a few glitches here and there, clipping and such, but on the whole the game is a nice piece of 
 eye candy (especially those car explosions, DAMN!) .
  
  Sound:
  
  Saints Row has a wide variety of music. If you like it, they probably have it. Many a time I would 
 find myself firing endless rounds at oncoming traffic, causing havoc as I listened to the soothing 
 sounds of Beethoven. The only problem is, unless you listen to a mass of artists not so well known 
 to much of the public, you probably won't recognize much of the licensed music to be found in the 
 game. The sound effects work well, and although they have a few rough spots, they generally deliver 
 well (Once again drawing attention to those explosions.... BOOOOOM!.)
  
  Value:
  
  As a fully priced game, Saint's row has more than enough to keep you coming back for more. You 
 can do anything from trying to collect hidden cd's a la GTA hidden packages, or go online to play 
 one of the many entertaining multiplayer games which are to numerous to mention in this review 
 (rest assured they are all very fun and have enough complexity to give skilled players a challenge) .
 
  
  Tilt:
  
  Overall Saints Row was a not so unique but a very twist on the GTA formula. Aside from wanting 
 to fly a plane and drive a boat, the game delivered in every other aspect. I could spend hours 
 simply playing the Insurance Fraud games and watch time fly by. It's because of this and the hidden 
 cd's and tags that you can either turn the game on to play for hours, or turn the game on to play 
 for a few short minutes of brain cell killing fun. If you enjoyed the GTA series and own a 360, 
 do yourself a favor and buy Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven_bergen
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and enjoyable. Besides some glitches, this is one of the best games to play 
 on the 360. This game will hold you over if you are a GTA freak like me and of course waiting in 
 patience for GTA 4. This game has everything you could think that the it could have besides the 
 boats and the airplanes in the GTA's. That kinda disappointed me but it still has it perks for 
 being the first of it's kind for the next generation console. The weapons are normal but their 
 could of been more weapons in the game. Overall I gave it an ok score but nothing like the original 
 games of Grand Theft Auto Seiries. I hope you enjoy and have as much as fun as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beanz90
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw a preview for THQs Saints Row I figured it wouldnt be able to stand up to the 
 intensity of Grand Theft Auto. My hypothesis wasnt correct though, Saints Row stood up and surpassed. 
 Even though GTA is one the favorites in the shelf of games, I could hardly wait to play another 
 version of this game. This is one of those games that youll continue to play and wont get tired 
 of playing. It doesnt get repetitive, it creative, and it brings you through a ride the entire 
 game. The storyline consists of 4 main plots. You start off by helping the Third Street Saints. 
 The Saints consist of five captains if you will; Julius, Troy, Lin, Johnny, and Dex. The saints 
 storyline introduces you to the game. Then there is the Vice Kings, who consist of: Benjamin King, 
 Warren, Tony, and Tanya. Johnny takes care of the vice kings with you. The next gang is Los Carnales 
 who consist of: Victor, Hector, Angelo, Miguel, and Luz. Dex and Troy ask of your help to rid Stillwater 
 of Los Carnales. The Westside Rollerz are the last gang in the city. They consist of: Price, Donnie, 
 Sharp, and Lin. Lin is undercover as one of the Rollerz to help take them out of the picture. Once 
 you have taken over all of Stillwater, you receive a call leading you to the final missions. If 
 you take your time playing the game, youll have a lot of fun. Since most of the achievements for 
 the game are for side missions it is suggested that you do them first. Since you dont want to 
 miss anything, and unlock as many achievements as possible, it is better to do the side missions 
 first. The game is now a classic in my eyes. I hope THQ and Volition Inc. come up with more games 
 like this one. The best of the best; Saints Row 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PRUEpwnage
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  My review is about Saints Row. My favorite part about this game would be the sound because is well 
 done on this game, they get a lot of great actors but the one thing that piss me off was that the 
 online suck pretty bad. So I was playing the story mode on it it was not bad I spent about 15 hours 
 of game play I wanted to see 20 to 30 hours of it but it's ok. I badly wanted to play the online 
 of so when I get the internet i started playing the game online holy crap it's lagging it get so 
 lag it just was not fun any more. It's a good game but I hope that they the game was less lagging. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedders05
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  amazing game, amazing story line and amazing graphics. this game has it all apart from bikes and 
 boats also helicoptors!
  but that dosnt mean its not better than gta!
  there are some features gta can use from this game!
  thq have made a perfect game of rht e 360 
 console.
  if you havnt played this game yet, then you are missing out on not just a great experience, but 
 on some true amazing moments with you 360. there arnt loading screens while in the game and going 
 into shops etc, which keeps the flow of the game good.
  the story line can become deep and reli keeps you playing the game.
  overall its a game i couldnt 
 put down and to complete just fills you with so much feeling of achievement!
  try saints row now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTA083
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and enjoyable. Besides some glitches, this is one of the best games to play 
 on the 360. This game will hold you over if you are a GTA freak like me and of course waiting in 
 patience for GTA 4. This game has everything you could think that the it could have besides the 
 boats and the airplanes in the GTA's. That kinda disappointed me but it still has it perks for 
 being the first of it's kind for the next generation console. The weapons are normal but their 
 could of been more weapons in the game. Overall I gave it an ok score but nothing like the original 
 games of Grand Theft Auto Seiries. I hope you enjoy and have as much as fun as I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llc012
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  I did not expect much from this game since THQ made it and it's a GTA knockoff. However, it's a 
 solid game that while copies GTA in numerous ways, also has an identity of its own.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is very good. The free aim attack system works much better than the aiming 
 system in GTA. Going around and killing gangmembers (or whoever) with ease is very nice. It's also 
 MUCH easier to shoot while driving a vehicle. There is a wide variety of cars to choose from and 
 some really nice customization options for them. You can also create a unique character and clothe 
 them quite diversely. There are many main missions to complete and various side missions to give 
 the game some depth. Each type of mission can get repetitive though. However, overall this game 
 is just really fun to play. 9.3 for gameplay.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are also very good. All of the characters, cars, clothes, and enviroments are crisp 
 and clean looking. There are some bugs with the graphics though. If you've ever had a dream of 
 falling off a bridge the game can sometimes do that. You'll be driving and out of nowhere your 
 car will just disappear and you're still going along, just no car. These mainly happen on the freeways 
 and the first time I encountered it was on a bridge, for some reason it was a little eery. The 
 cutscenes also have frameclipping errors (although minor) . If not for these flaws the graphics 
 would get a higher rating, as it is 8.5 for graphics.
  
  Sound:
  The sound effects are very good. The cars sound effects change in respect to the type of car you 
 are using. The weapons sound good too. The music is ok, and I did like some of the old school songs 
 the game has. Still, GTA set the bar high for music scores and Saints Row doesn't quiet live up 
 to GTA in the soundtrack department. Just use your own customized soundtrack and that doesn't matter. 
 8.8 for sound.
  
  Value:
  The game took me a while to beat (maybe 20-30 hours?) . I also did not do all of the side missions 
 (actually only did enough to be able to do the main missions) . There is also the online component 
 which I tried a couple of times and only thought it was okay. The single player game is lengthy 
 enough and if you also happen to like the multiplayer then this game is a good buy. Value is 9.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
  Yeah, this game copies a lot from GTA, but what's so wrong with that? GTA is a very fun game and 
 to me Saints Row basically takes what's so good about GTA and makes it better (graphics and gameplay 
 for sure) . If you are a diehard GTA fan then this is a definite buy to last you until GTAIV comes 
 out. This game is a definite rent and very easily a buy for some people. I give this game an overall 
 score of a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RayB
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I understand that this game is nothing but a GTA clone with gangs but come on people what game 
 hasn't taken something from another game. A ton of games have stole a lot of their ideas from other 
 games. There are a lot of other games that are open-ended like GTA and Saints Row so I don't know 
 what the fuss is about. If this game came out first would you guys have liked it or dissed it. 
 Just judge a game on how great it is and not on whether it's like another game because if that's 
 the case it's a lot of games we all would not have liked because it's so similar to another game. 
 Anyway I liked the game and I can't wait for Saints Row 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonBlade035
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  ok... alot of the other reviews are putting this game down..... i dont know why becase its like GTA 
 whoopdi-freaken-do..... this game is not GTA its waaayyy better that GTA (in my opinion) .... this 
 game basically starts out where you create your own character in any way you want (except for clothes 
 thats later) then you start the game and you are this new guy (i guess) and you get in the middle 
 of a tussle between two different gangs the saints save ya and you join them..... you'll probably 
 spand alot of this time killing blowin ppl up just havein fun explorin for a while..... then when 
 you really start into the game it gets really interesting.... and challenging of course.... but you 
 wont play to long until you start doin side missions... an wow there are some side missions MANY 
 side missions some of them are for the same type of thing like snatch for example there are a few 
 snatch areas you can go to they are the same type of thing but your working for other ppl..... the 
 awesome thing about the side missions is that you can get special upgrades to you or your belongings..... but 
 it doesnt stop there... there are numerous stores around stillwater jewelry, clothes, tatoos, you 
 name they probably have it.... my personnal favorite thing about the game is the havok physics engine 
 ooohhh man the physics engine is genious and intelligent like heres a stuation that ive done you 
 just bought a rpg you step outside and drive a few miles get out and you see monorail train you 
 take out your rpg fire as it passes over a 3-lane 4-way intersection and the train gets derailed 
 falling onto the traffic below destroying many vehicles ...... now look me in the face and tell 
 me that isnt awesome... but with all games there are flaws.... some missions are a little to difficult 
 to do without many tries..... and some enemies that you may fight like a regular enemy gang member 
 shoot and kill you after you just got a hug wad of cash and you look at the screen like rrraaaggghhh 
 you piece of crap!!! .... but overall the game is very good and very wellmade!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToetNL
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Although this game, in my eyes, is nothing more than a GTA rip-off, its a great game.
  
  It has a lot of elements that made the GTA series as big as they are.
  The game has some new 
 feautures. You can now make your own player and even change him at the plastic surgery store.
 
  Throughout the game you can find a lot of different mini-games that build up your reputation with 
 the homies. You can recruit ho's, steal cars, drive hookers round for cash and be a hitman. All 
 of which make you richer and earn more respect.
  
  The levels are fun to play, and at some times your mobile phone rings to let you know that the 
 neigbourhood you gained is being attacked by other gangs which provides a new temporary mission.
 
  
  Overall the only things missing in this game are some minor things like: * Were are the motorcycles?
 
  * No houses to buy?
  * Maybe some more land or territory to play in?
  * More wellknown (ROCK) music in the game? Instead of all the hiphop and rap? (I know I am being 
 a ass :) )
  
  All these minor things can easily be reparded at the next game, maybe by working together with 
 the GTA builders? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaDarkxoxo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Now people might either hate this review or totally agree with it. I personally feel that Saints 
 Row is 10 times better then GTA: San Andreas. And heres why. GTA: San Andreas in my opinion was 
 too gangster, too stereotyped, sexist (because there were no girls in your gang just prostitutes 
 on the streets) , you can't have any homies by your side to help you out with fights, you cant create 
 your own character, the map of the territories werent color coded so you didnt know which territory 
 belonged to who, the navigation sucked ass (because you couldnt set way points) , you couldnt do 
 free aim out of the window while driving, the target and aiming system sucked major ass, and the 
 story wasnt that great. Dont get me wrong i love GTA: San Andreas, i am just saying the things 
 i didnt like about GTA: San Andreas because Saints Row improved upon everything that GTA: San Andreas 
 didnt have or what was wrong with it. NOW Saints Row is somewhat what ganster but it wasnt overly 
 annoying gangster like GTA: San Andreas. Saints Row wasnt stereotyped at all it has a mixture of 
 races where GTA: San Andreas just seemed to have all african american people with a few hispanics 
 here and there. Saints Row has hispanics, afriacan americans, asians, and Caucasians. Also Saints 
 Row lets you create your character and when you create your character you can choose what race 
 you want to be where GTA: San Andreas you are forced to be african american that you cant customize. 
 I love the fact that you have the choice to choose what race you want to be. I am not a racist 
 i just love how Saints Row had that mixture. As a girl gamer i was disappointed that in GTA: San 
 Andreas there were no girls in your gang, when i first started playing Saints Row i automatically 
 thought that Saints Row would be like GTA and not have any girls in you gang, and i was proved 
 wrong. I thought it was soooooo awesome that finally there is a game where you can have girls in 
 your gang fighting with you for the same thing. Saints Row added a feature that i thought was really 
 cool, it let you able to bring 3 of your homies with you to a mission to help you fight the rival 
 gang. The feature made it very helpful to do mission and i love this new feature. One thing really 
 great about Saints Row is that the rival gangs are different colors and on your map its color coded 
 showing which territories belongs to which gangs. Its very helpful the map being color coded. Another 
 thing that makes the game great is that if you need to get to a certain mission but you dont know 
 how to get there, you can set a way point. The way point made getting to places very easy and very 
 helpful. The one thing that shocked the hell out of me is that during some missions when someone 
 else is driving and you have to be the shooter you have free aim so you can aim the gun wherever 
 you want and it has infinity ammo which is sweet! And the greatest thing about Saints Row is that 
 it has a amazing addicting story. It keeps you guessing and wanting to play more to see what happens 
 next. Saints Row also has fun addicting side missions to do and they keep you busy because there 
 are soo many. The gameplay is beyond awesome and mind blowing and the replay value is AMAZING there 
 is just sooo much to do even after you beat the story. The graphics are amazing, great landscapes, 
 great environments, great effects, great explosions, very clear, very wide open world, and great 
 character designs. The sound is awesome, great sound effects, great voice acting, great music, 
 and very clear sounds. Overall Saints Row is one of the greatest games on 360. Saints Row has proven 
 that it isnt a cheap GTA bite off and that it stands on its own two feet and even surpasses GTA: 
 San Andreas. I love Saints Row i am very addicted to this game and i recommend it to everyone. 
 I really hope that Volition makes Saints Row 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R3SP3CT_
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row (XBOX 360)
  
  Recently lots of games have been borrowing (or ripping-off) the Grand Theft Auto formula. Most 
 of those game failed horribly, but Saints Row does a pretty decent job. This Xbox 360 title looks 
 and plays great, and with great graphics, pretty good online play, and pimping what can go wrong, 
 right?
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The game plays similar to Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, you run around, steal cars, kill people 
 for money, do missions, etc. The game has some unique features, like regenerating health as long 
 as you don't take constant damage. One thing better about this game then GTA is that you can free-roam 
 the entire city from the beginning, no need to do missions. The gameplay, while awesome has been 
 done lots of times before, so veterans of GTA, might dislike this game. While the game is fun offline, 
 the game features online play. Online play is usually lag-free, and there are lots of folks online, 
 the only complaint I have about the online of this game is that it for some reason lags a bit more 
 then my other 360 titles.
  
  Graphics:
  
  This game has great graphics for its size. The character models and animations are much more fluid 
 then the ones in GTA: SA. The characters look better, react better, and the game has pretty awesome 
 particle effects. The car models are nice too, great quality for this type of game but nothing 
 compared to Project Gotham Racing 3. The games graphics are good overall, could be better, but 
 overall their nice.
  
  Sound:
  
  The game has lots of licensed music, lots of voice-acting, and lots of sound-effects. The sounds 
 of the game are pretty good, but there is lots of swearing, very constant, literaly every other 
 world will be a curse word of sorts. While it fits the games atmosphere, its over-used. The sound 
 effects of the game are pretty good but nothing spectacular. The licensed music is awesome, meaning 
 you won't have to listen to generic made-up music, you'll get the real thing. Overall the sounds 
 of the game are great.
  
  Value:
  
  The game is great but overall its not worth paying full price for. While the game has a reasonable 
 campaign, great online play, etc. its basically a graphically pumped up GTA. If you currently own 
 San Andreas I wouldn't reccomend this game as its only strong-point over GTA is the graphics. The 
 online play is good but after a while it too gets repetative. The game is great, but it offers 
 nothing you haven't done before.
  
  Rent or Buy?
  I would say Rent this game first, chances are by the time the rental time is up, you will be tired 
 of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hermitkermit
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 1, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  No this game did not top GTA for open ended sand box game play but it did set an example that GTA 
 could follow.
  
  GamePlay: First off its just like your every day gang shooters you got curses (F words and BS here 
 and there) and insane shootouts, sex and insane car chases. However the one thing That I love to 
 do in this game is to customizes I want to change my looks and stuff. You start the game by creating 
 your own character (Caucasian, African American, Hispanic, Asian) and you can even change him more 
 by adjusting Eyebrows, noses, ears, how fat or how dark his skin can be. Once you got that settled 
 you now are treated to a training mission etc.. The Point of the game is to take over Stilwater 
 one neighborhood at a time. And you got your gangs to help you out. Your gang 3rd street Saints 
 (purple) needs your help and you can enlist them to help you. You can recruit up to three of them 
 and they can help cover you or give you some company. Of course your not gonna command them they 
 just follow you around and the good thing is if they get shot up just relive them by pressing the 
 Y button next to them. Although their not much use they can help out in the most insane firefights. 
 The game is good at presenting a huge city I have not experience any slow downs while playing some 
 but barely noticeable when Im blowning stuff up with my Rocket Launcher but other than that it 
 runs fairly smoothly. And yes it is open ended you can do what ever you want. You get your own 
 house and you can store as many cars as you wish. ( not sure how much you can keep but Im sure 
 alot) Also there are alot of good cars out there too like from old fashion to street race devils. 
 Of course you can always take the train if you like. You can buy cloths for yourself and guns in 
 any store. There are alot of stores around Stilwater and the city is really built like a city there 
 is a highway that helps connect the city and bridges. The game is fairly easy even if you got about 
 6 people shooting at you you can easily take them out so yeah A. I. could have been better. Also 
 the game is huge Thats all I can say or this WALL OF TEXT will be too big.... if it isn't already.. 
 One thing that bugs me in SR is that you can't drive bikes or boats nor planes or helicopter.. sadly...
 
  
  Graphics: too be short, Nice every thing is sharp and clear and good ragdoll effects and explosions 
 everything looks really good and the buildings are all detailed and the models look nice so do 
 the cars.
  
  Sound: Besides the gunshots or swears being thrown around there are alot of good music and others 
 if you listen quielty. The music is good and sound effects are nice, voice Acting is well done 
 also.
  
  Replay: There is alot to do even if you beat the game you go on a rampage or just do some missions 
 however there is not much once you beat the whole game so yeah but there is online where you can 
 do different game missions like defend the pimp (Im not kidding) and Gang Shoot outs. The online 
 is a little flawed some lag but a patch was released so it should be fine now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawk5eye
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 31, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  First of all, lets admit it when you play this game you think i wonder what GTA IV will be like.. 
 . Its a stop gap between games and will be forgotten soon enough. The customisation is very good 
 but game play is too simplistic and boring after a while. The end of the game may upset a few people 
 but I won't spoil it for others who might appreciate it. Graphically average for a next generation 
 game, a few niggles about it. Some parts look far too similar to Liberty City. This may seem as 
 a biased account but the similarities are just too close to GTA for my liking. What happened to 
 originality. Rockstar manage it with every title they release, why can't THQ or are they used to 
 plumming out the same old rubbish, hence the smackdown series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilbz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: There is a wide variety of gameplay in Saint's Row. You will have the chance to partake 
 in a huge number of activities includeing: Robbing stores, insurance fraud, racing, tagging and 
 many more. The one place it does fall short of GTA though is the lack of planes, boats and motorcycles, 
 although it is not completly needed they would be a great addition.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are beautiful for a sand box style game although there is a fair amount 
 of image tearing. But the streets of stilwater are highly detailed from the rundown projects district 
 to the rich suburbs.
  
  Sound: I found only one song that I liked on the soundtrack although if you like hip-hop youd be 
 in heavan. The voice-acting is well done.
  
  Value: Its a sandbox game with multiplayer you could spen 100hrs on this. Although the multiplayer 
 is laggy it should be fixed by a patch coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shibby360
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  the game starts off as many before it... your a kid without much of anything trying to make it 
 big... so you join the third street saints, a gang looking out in the intrest of the people. Rival 
 gangs come in the way and its your job to smoke 'em. You face the westside rollers. the (los) carnales, 
 and the vice kings. (my personal favorite) So besides for the story you will find yourself running 
 around robbing stores and doing various side missions for some gamerscore. All in all the game 
 has many many!!!! hours of things to keep you occupied as well as great online play where you and 
 your friends can play games like blinged out ride, protect the pimp, and big ass chains... (and 
 of course the ever popular deathmatch.... yawn....) the game was uber good and i give it excellent 
 score of 9.6.... out of ten... shibby360 (and yes that is my gamer tag...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nonpareil
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  WOW! That can easily be the word of the day when you play this game. I'm sure your all thinking, 
 great, another GTA clone. WRONG! This game easily blazes it's own trail and sets itself apart from 
 GTA in so many different, positive, aspects.
  
  Gameplay in this game is just solid, it makes sence. You'll play GTA some time after this and say, 
 these controls suck, I wish they were more like Saints Row (SR) . One main stand-out of SR is that 
 the controls are solid, they are fluid and you never really have to think about holding a controller 
 in your hand, it just feels right. Driving, shooting, and combat is improved in every level of 
 play. Cars drive appropriately, and your not ALWAYS using the handbrake to turn with, there are 
 times you will actually use the regular brakes :) Shooting is great, all of you HALO fans will 
 enjoy using the right thumb stick to aim, and score headshots.
  
  Graphics are top notch, especially explosions, and everyone loves explosions... the rocket launcher 
 induced ones anyways. This game isn't filled with neon lights and tons of other distractions like 
 other games, but it just looks great. You'll notice what time of day it is in the game just by 
 looking at the shadows on the ground, or anything else, the lighting is amazing. Let's not forget 
 the weather effects look great too. Graphics are sharp and appropriate.
  
  The sound is great, tons of music for everyone to love on the radio stations. Let's not forget 
 all the great banter that the characters in the game say, and the pedestrians walking on the street 
 have to say about your driving. Many things in this game will have you grabbing at your sides in 
 pain and laughing.
  
  Value is amazing. Tons of side-missions, which are actually fun, and plenty of main story missions 
 which are all very different from eachother and feel unique. This game will suck hours from your 
 life, oh yeah, let's not forget the multi-player which will do so even more.
  
  This is a great must-have game that should be in everyone's collection (well, if your 17 and can 
 buy the game, it's rated M) . GO NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trudat217
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  This game looked awesome from when I picked it up. I could create my own player and do whatever 
 I wanted. Buy a gun and then rob the store to get some of my money back, then go buy some new threads 
 at the clothing store, and grab a 40 oz. for the drive home. It was awesome to transcend myself 
 into the world created. One day I loaded the game from my save and walked out of the house and 
 I fell through the sidewalk down to my knees, making it so I couldn't move. I restarted my 360 
 and tried it again, that time I made it out onto the street and into a car, but at a certain street 
 I hit an invisible wall, the car continued out of sight and I was frozen suck to the wall in the 
 driving position. More attempts and frustration finally lead to me giving up. I've read message 
 boards on the internet where people have had the same problem. Supposedly THQ and Volition Inc. 
 have said that its a problem with the 360 and it's overheating. I read a post from someone who 
 said that it ruined his 360 making other games freeze on him. I just got Tiger Woods 07 and it's 
 been working fine other than a few minor freeze ups. I don't know exactly what to recommend, most 
 people have finished the entire game without running into my problem. The best I can do explain 
 my horrible circumstance and warn people of it's possibilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buccy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  A review is not a review unless you review the game. Am I correct? When someone compares games, 
 it is no longer a review, it is a comparison. I am not saying it is wrong but to obsess about it 
 is a little un-nerving. Saints row delivers. It is fun. It is challenging. It is addictive. The 
 fact you can customize a bunch of things is key to their success. Character Customization is just 
 great. Though I find it hard to make original looking characters, it is still a unique feature 
 that adds a wonderful element. Car customization is addiciting. You eventually get 20+ cars in 
 your garage that you don't know what to do with afterwards.
  
  Buying clothes is fun, you can go get bling, you can go get ink, you can go get suits, or gang 
 colored clothing. What else are you going to spend your money on?
  
  Buying weopons is important. Using VICE9 is a trigger happy crapfest and in any kind of large melee, 
 your smoked. .44 is the gun to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pieman_III
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this to me it sounded like another gang banging craptastic rip off of GTA. 
 I wasnt going to touch it with a ten foot pole, but the demo changed my mind instantly. This game 
 is no GTA Rip off and I am tierd of people saying it is. Thats like saying Halo is a Goldeneye 
 rip off because they both have first person gunplay and a multiplayer that is fun.
  
  The game really does improve on many things that GTA has somehwhat let me down on. For one thing, 
 the money actually has a point and is difficult to get whereas, in GTA, it seems doing a simple 
 mission gets you tens of thousands of dollars and allows you to buy anything you please after just 
 a little while of playing. This game gives you cash but makes you use it wisely buying only nessessities 
 or saving up for something special (like an RPG persay) .
  
  The graphics are done well and although they look a tad cartoony at times, the realism is still 
 there. The damage effects on cars, bullet holes that actually show up, and engine thats more then 
 a picture of one, and various other fun effects make it look great.
  
  As for realism this game excells where GTA has avoided. I loved the fact that you could fly though 
 the windsheild in certain collisions and the ragdolls made it so much fun to hit pedestirans and 
 watch them fly up and over the hood.
  
  The story was quite good and interesting, and the plot development was fun aswell, but the ending 
 frankly, sucked. The side missions garuntee hours of extra fun when you haven othing else to do, 
 and pimping out the many many vehicles in the game was also an entertaining task.
  
  Multiplayer was very fun to me but it held two large problems. For one, the lag which often messed 
 with the game (ie spawning with no guns) and the cheating of people using Standby. Other then that 
 it was very enjoyable, especially flying around in cars, blaring classical music while shooting 
 at enemies (always makes me laugh) .
  
  All in all this is quite the fun game and any fan of GTA not to cowardly to play a game like it 
 should enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbrandowen
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  I'L Be honest its got no bikes or planes but I Cnt see you beeng to save in those in a gang war!
 
  
  Ragdoll physics amazing you feel like saying sorry everytime you hit someone
  create your carracter then start it must take some doing getting that carracter in the cut sene 
 with tatoos and blu hair?
  
  Drugs dont try the reel thing see wat it does to your carracter itseveryday life it 's a pitty 
 the other games has not tried this yet, as I LAUGHED MY #$# OF THE FIRST TIME I DRANK AND DROVE
 
  
  I would say its the best from every ps2 game combind with better grafics on the 360 amazing .
 
  
  Dont rent it buy it and once again its only good advise if you use it !!! Good stuff THQ we need 
 more please !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freeman71
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  it is worth the money it challenge , fun , and just a great all round game it has great sound fx 
 , a great story behind it ! a lot of continuous game game-play , the game allows u too create a 
 character to your style and liking, realistic looking cars , the gangs are hard hitting and the 
 cops never stop! it is a action packed game that everyone with a 360 should own! go get it ! i 
 give it easily a 9.5 ! with no questions asked! it a lot of game for a little value with the 360 
 graphic it is a unbeatable buy, it is enough to make a grown men cry! it is not easy to beat right 
 away like gta even though it has the same concept but a better made game that should be put in 
 the game hall of fame! i spend hours paying it , it is always in my 360 at least once every day 
 ! it is a hit in my book and always will be a great title! thq really out done themselves this 
 time and i hope there is better ones to come! this is a great start for a series of saint's row 
 games to come they should make another i would buy it! it is one the best games of the century! 
 and not the last to come ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Abandon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This game in my opion is possiabley better than GTA san andres, dont get me wrong san andres was 
 a great game but the action in saints row was more fun than it was in GTA. Saints Row got a pretty 
 dicent story line and great mutiplayer to back it up. if ur a big fan of GTA i reamend u check 
 out this game. and if ur not a big fan out gta check out ti as well. Pretty long single player, 
 lots of side mission but they do tend to get repetive. This game has some replay value. The Graphis 
 are amzaing. The Voice overs are all well done too. The music in the game is not bad tho it could 
 have been alot better. and the side mission could have been better to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxThe_gearsxxx
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Well, have you ever played Grand theft Auto? Kill some cops, put in some cheat codes, and have 
 sex with hoes in the back of your car? Well, then try Saints Row out. Kill some cops, kill some 
 gang members, put in some cheat codes, drive around. Though it is a take off the unique gameplay 
 of GTA, it falls a little bit short of being anything more then a rip off. It has some cool new 
 minigames, new activities, and some new gameplay elements, that really make this game a slight 
 bit better that your normal rip off. Like the addition of having gangs, gang notoriety, and homies. 
 It really adds to the formula. There are also some fun minigames to try out. So, I guess you should 
 give it a rent, because it gets stale if you don't have the great Xbox live. The car driving is 
 really good to, a bit better then your ordinary GTA rip off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbierian205
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  In the gameplay department, Saints Row performs very well. The missions revolve around driving, 
 shooting, or driving and shooting, and all the action is done very well. Every gun has a distinct 
 feel, and explosions are often jaw dropping and laugh worthy due to the excellent use of rag-doll 
 physics and explosion effects. Its also the little things that the game gets right that only serve 
 to enhance the experience. If a car explodes, for example, and a piece of flaming wreckage hits 
 you or someone else, they will actually light on fire and start running around, screaming hysterically. 
 Cars will crash into each other without you having anything to do with it, cops will chase down 
 random criminals, and I even got MY car hijacked once or twice by a ballsy NPC. The story is a 
 decent one involving your gang trying to take over the city by eliminating the other 3 rival gangs. 
 The characters are memorable and have a lot of personality, but I have to say the narrative ends 
 very disappointingly. The way the game progresses is that you have to earn enough respect to take 
 on the next main mission by doing side missions. For the most part these activities are very fun, 
 and I didnt mind taking part in them to advance the main story. A few glitches here and there 
 also prevent the gameplay from reaching the next level.
  
  Saints Row looks extremely good for an open world game of this size. When you get up close, the 
 game doesnt really technically impress, but when you are just driving around and playing you will 
 be wowed by just how good the entire world looks. Some glorious explosion effects coupled with 
 great lighting and textures make sure you have no doubt that this game could only exist on a next-gen 
 console. As far as cutscenes go, they are probably the worst looking part of the game. While the 
 graphics look good from afar, this engine wasnt created with up-close details in mind, which isnt 
 a problem in the regular gameplay, but it makes the cutscenes look pretty ugly. Also, some occasional 
 pop-in and graphical glitchiness blemishes an otherwise immaculate looking game.
  
  In Saints Row, the sound quality really stands out. Explosions, guns sounds, and car sounds are 
 all done very well. There is also a cool effect that when you have the radio on in your car, if 
 you get out your can still hear the radio but the noise is muffled. Speaking of radio, the soundtrack 
 is amazingly deep. Everything from rap to classical is present and accounted for, and they are 
 all integrated into a radio system that constantly pumps out funny commercials, talk shows, and 
 real time news updates. The voice acting is also amazing. Every characters dialogue is top notch, 
 headlined by an absolutely classic performance by Keith David as Julius. The game will take you 
 about 20 hours to play through, and thats only the main story. To get 100% completion would take 
 many, many more hours, as the main story only gets you about 55% there. There are upwards of 40 
 achievements, and all of them are both challenging and fair. Only about 20 of the 1000 points are 
 really easy, and to get all 43 would require somewhere from 30-40 hours of play. Also, some light 
 multiplayer is present, and although they obviously tried to make it fun, it rarely is. Overall, 
 this is a good use of your $60. While you can draw many similarities between Saints Row and the 
 GTA series, it is clearly a game all its own. New ideas, such as your health recovering over time, 
 being able to eat food on the fly, and an ingenious new GPS system that easily gets you where you 
 are going, clearly make the game different, and better than GTA in some respects. While Saints 
 Row is not completely original, it enhances and refines the GTA Experience to an entire new level. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row i bought this game after a week it came out i enjoyed it for a few days but then just 
 bored of it i mean people say its just like gta nothing like it gta has great storys and can keep 
 you going for hours. The story to this is ok could be better this game isnt the best game on 360 
 it never will be i can say. The shooting is hard at times that makes the game ok, cars look cool 
 i like them also the area of the game is cool just the story is boring and its a shame could have 
 been better. If Rockstar games done this it would have been good cause they know how to make a 
 good story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robier797
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  well in my opinnion this game is a bad copy of GTA, the vehicle selection is poor, the gameplay 
 and storyline have nothing to do with the GTA series one, the GFX are pretty cute, but for me the 
 game fails in reallistic in fun, and in the way u move during the ground, plus the maps are too 
 poor, in comparision with GTA-SA and GTA-VC, i cant enjoy this game before i finished all GTA games 
 series, i expect lots more of a 360 game, 360 is dissapointing me atm, i think that we must wait 
 until the GTA 4 is released on 360 or even in PS3, but with all i saw of 360 games atm including 
 this saints row, i think that GTA4 of PS3 gonna be miles away better than 360 version.
  For me i can qualified this game as a NON FINISHED attempt of GTA for 360, like a beta of a GTA 
 : (
  in less words NOT GOOD GAME : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuckwap3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Saint's Row since i've first recieved it and I LOVE IT! The gameplay is just 
 great fun. Hell, I free roamed the first month of the game just to get the feel of it. Let me look 
 over the Pro's and the Cons of this game.
  
  The Pro's-
  
  -It maybe a GTA Clone, but it has a helluva better storyline then the GTA Games
  -The activities 
 are great fun. Don't wanna play the storyline right now? Play Insurance Fraud, Mayhem, Or Hitman!
 
  -The Multiplayer is great, especially that you can form a gang, and rule the scoreboards (if you're 
 good enough.) -One Word: FUZZY PIMP COAT!
  -The variety of vehicles you can get is great also, the customization of vehicles is also a great 
 feat.
  -Pimp Slap in multiplayer :P
  -The learning curve isn't a great amount of time.
  
  I probably didn't list ALL the things I liked about this game, but that would've taken me more 
 then 2 hours ;-)
  
  Ugh, Now to the cons..
  
  The Cons-
  -The multiplayer is laggy most of the time, Volition REALLY needs to fix the lag problem.
  -The 
 singleplayer is kind of... lacking something..
  -It's sometimes too easy to get money.
  -Respect system - You have to have at least x1 Respect to do a storyline mission, that means a 
 lot of trips to activity locations.
  
  All in all, This is a Superb game. The multiplayer servers may be laggy, and the respect system 
 is kind of annoying. But I've learned to get around the cons. Well, This is the end of my review, 
 so, Catchya later!
  
  - chuckwap3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpella44
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  Well first off, this game reminds me alot of Grand Theft Auto, which I'm sure most people already 
 have figured out. The expansive cities, violence, and overall feel of the game is very, very similar.
 
  
  This game is perfect for people who have many hours to kill or a long weekend that is coming up. 
 There are alot of side quests and missions that you can choose from, with a very expansive enrionment 
 that rairly ever makes you feel constrained. The selection of guns could be larger, but it still 
 is not bad. You can customize your clothing, which is an added bonus, to make your character resemble 
 whoever and whatever you want. Overall, Saints Row is a game that I feel is worth a try for those 
 who can handle extreme violence and language that is prevalent throughout the entire game. It gives 
 you lots of freedom and options, which helps to make this one of the best games on the 360 to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixthsquare
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 27, 2006 6:47 am PT
Review:  saints row is a game i think you got to own if you got a xbox 360. yes its a lot like grand theft 
 auto hell it might as well be grand theft auto but its fun and well done. graphics are pretty good 
 and gunfire sounds realistic. the difference between gta and saints row is that you can create your 
 own character. also there's no auto aiming but instead a reticle much like first person shooter 
 games like halo, this make gameplay a little harder, especially trying to do drive bys or shooting 
 other cars during a chase. also there's different stores located around town like clothing stores 
 liquor stores, movies, music stores ,plastic surgeons ,and of course gun stores. aside from missions 
 there are activities, and lots of them. the online gameplay seems like it was rushed, and is not 
 all that exciting. i give this game a 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdevon101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is so awesome this game is so worth 60 dollars its cool cause you can by clothes, jewelry, 
 cars, you can customize your cars, you can do activities like insurance fraud, snatchin, street 
 racing, demolition derby, and their's alot of missions that are very fun and entertaining but after 
 you finish a mission you have to build your respect again by doing those activities and i think 
 this game cusses more than gta you can buy weapons and you have a crib where you have a stash of 
 money and weapon cache but unlike gta you can have very very many cars in your garage but overall 
 this game is great buy it worth the money!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlxfan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  man sorry gta but i got to give it to saint's row man . i actually threw out grand theft auto and 
 got saint's row and don't take it from me look at other reviews and get the game your self . there 
 are more gangs more guns more girls, cars and more outdoor space to run amuk to shoot, steal and 
 get respect from your gang to other gangs. and its more realistic than gta and get to do anything 
 you want to do and sometimes get money for it and respect for it too. and the hardest gang to me 
 is los carnales and vice kings so go get the game to experience the gameplay the world around your 
 person and yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is the first Next-Gen GTA style game to roll out. Its a good start for the Sandbox 
 series, but its missing the fundamentals that make GTA: VC and GTA: SA beat it. Read on:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  This has got to be the Best control in a GTA style game ever. Sure, it takes 
 some time to get used to manual aim, but its positively the best aimming function in Sandbox history. 
 R* better take notes on this and also Saint's Row mapping system feature: GPS. The games tracking 
 of stats is even better then the GTA's. Everything that was every wrong with GTA simple stuff was 
 fixed. R*better take notes because if these stats and GPS features are not in GTA4, they well get 
 call on about it and a lower scoring from the magazines to boot.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  There next gen, but the game has obliviously taken a hit from that. With glitches such as the road 
 dissappearing on the highway and not being able to open a certain car door sometimes, it gets frustrating. 
 A patch is coming out soon for it so no biggy (still, this incomplete game stuff is getting annoying)
 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  I don't like rap, but this was some stuff. Plus, they had rock and techno so I could live with 
 it. the coolest feature is that I had an audio player in the game I so it acted like my Ipod the 
 entire game. of course, if I ever want to listen to my own tunes i could just open up my blade 
 and turn them on. R*, take note of the I-pod feature in this game.
  
  Value: 9/10
  This is the GTA of 2006. If you are looking for a new GTA this year, buy this game. GTA4 will be 
 coming next year for PS3 and Xbox 360, and that will be the GTA of 2007. its worth every penny, 
 despite the glitches it suffers. One thing that takes this game down from a 10/10 in this dept. 
 is the lack of GTA features its missing, namely vehicles. There are no boats, Firetrucks, Bikes, 
 planes, and helicopters to fly or drive. What are they waiting for? Saint's Row 2?
  
  Reviewers Tilt: 8/10
  As I said, this whole rap and ganster stuff isn't very appealing to me, 
 but I can go with the flow if it promises good gameplay, and this sure was a blast. I would actually 
 recommend this game over the GTAs.
  
  Overall: 8.6/10
  Finally, we got another GTA for console to rave about, but I am sure that some will complain about 
 the like of vehicles besides cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tawagivercetti
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Put simply. GTA is a huge influence but thats a good thing I think we need more games with a non 
 nerdy sense of humour, theres heaps of stuff to do so you get GREAT VALUE for your money. The story 
 is very well done you can buy stuff for ur character and shoot heaps of people. There are about 
 15 Radio stations that really lack good metal but has some good classic metal, plus you have an 
 mp3 player. The Graphics are excellent you won't be let down there..
  What really impressed me was the fun gameplay and the mission depth.
  Enough talk more play. 
 Xbox live too.!!
  
  100+ hours for people who appreciate games
  
  R. I. P. Liksang. com, died to a bullet in the back, killed by sony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackadder89
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  It would seem that nowadays, if you make a free-roaming modern day action game set in a city, it 
 gets compared with GTA. This annoys me for two reasons: 1. The games are not that similar to GTA, 
 and deserve to be looked at individually.
  
  2. GTA didn't even invent the idea.
  
  Saint's Row is the same genre as GTA, it borrows some ideas from GTA, but in essence, it is definitely 
 a different game. The gunplay is very, very arcadey, as is the driving and most of the mission 
 schemes. You couldn't say that Saint's Row is brimming with originality, but it has its own little 
 possesions. A vast majority of the game sees you fighting for 'respect' so you can carry on with 
 the main missions. This can be done in a variety of ways, the easiest of them being the sub-missions. 
 This is when Saint's Row is at its most fun. It has a vast array of sub missions, from an Escort 
 Service to Insurance Fraud; all of them are fun, and all of them have benefits should you chose 
 to do them. In fact, it's safe to say that the majority of the time you'll spend on Saint's Row 
 is doing these, since the main story with its atrocious plot wont take you any more than 12 hours 
 to complete. Yes, the essence of this game is in the little things, not an epic main storyline.
 
  
  The multiplayer, if very buggy online, is also extremely satisfying. There are a wide range of 
 modes, some of them more innovative than others, and most of them enjoyable, especially when playing 
 with a friend.
  
  Visually, the only thing that looks next gen is the damage done to cars, and the eventual demise, 
 as they explode in an extremely pretty fireball. Character models, animations, draw distance etc. 
 are all far from next gen, although again, it's not where the game's heart actually lies.
  
  The game probably wont have you hooked. It probably wont even get any dedicated gaming time 
 on your hands. It's one of those friendly, non-commital games, giving you the chance to jump into 
 a world any time you want, and go about killing things until you get bored. It's not special, but 
 it's not average either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Back when I played Rockstars Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, I was really impressed by the huge 
 map, the fact that you were finally able to swim, the astounding amount of vehicles available to 
 move about, the staggering amount of side missions, and a pretty intense story. I have to admit, 
 though, that my secret passion in that game was the gang warfare, wandering into enemy territory 
 and taking it as my own. Of course, it wasnt long before the rival gangs tried to take it back. 
 That was a really great element! When I first started up Saints Row, it looked like this game was 
 going to be San Andreas all over again, but with a Liberty City sized map. As I went along, I realized 
 that this game pales in comparison with SA. There are a pretty decent amount of vehicles to cruise 
 about in, but unlike the latest GTA game, you wont find bikes, planes, or boats here. The side 
 missions arent nearly as varied or far-reaching, and the gang warfare isnt nearly what I thought 
 it was going to be; in fact, its kind of disappointing. Instead of being able to trigger gang 
 wars on your own, you have to wait until the game pukes up a stronghold mission for your targeted 
 gang. You wander into the stronghold, take out the gang members, and the territory is yours. The 
 rival gang may try and take it back, but if you fail to push them back, you can keep trying until 
 you succeed. (So its not nearly as challenging as San Andreas) You can also gain territory by 
 completing the campaign missions. Any mission that you embark on, be it campaign or stronghold, 
 can only be attempted if youve filled up your respect gauge, which is done by completing the side 
 mission activities scattered about the map. Each section of the map, whether its controlled by 
 Los Carnales, Vice Kings, or West Side Rollerz, has the same assortment of activities in it. For 
 example, you can provide protection for drug dealers, provide escort service for prostitutes, cause 
 general mayhem, or commit insurance fraud by causing accidents and taking nosedives in front of 
 cars (my personal favorite) . Each of these activities has eight levels of difficulty, with the 
 reward and respect generated going up with each successful level. Once you pass level eight, though, 
 you cant earn respect with that particular activity anymore.
  
  The game is not very difficult, especially when stacked up against the GTA titles. Most of the 
 real challenge comes from withstanding some of the games more obnoxious glitches. There are several 
 really bad clipping issues where stretches of the highway or buildings on the horizon vanish, and 
 I experienced the vehicle I was riding in disappearing as well, leaving me trapped in the middle 
 of a road. I also had trouble completing any sort of tagging side mission. In Saints Row, when 
 you are going to spray paint over a rival gangs tag, youre supposed to see a sequence or buttons 
 or thumbstick rotations that tell you how to do this. Unfortunately, outside of the stronghold 
 mission that introduced tagging to me, I never saw this button sequence. Whenever I went to tag, 
 my character just froze in front of a wall, and I couldnt exit out of the action.
  
  Graphically, this game doesnt have very much over San Andreas. One of the better features is the 
 option to customize your avatars appearance, and if you get bored of how you look, you can take 
 him to a plastic surgeon and start the process over. Where Saints Row excels, however, is in its 
 voice acting. It doesnt have quite the all-star cast that San Andreas featured, but the dialogue 
 is more amusing, and the story is . . . admittedly weaker, especially during the endgame. Also 
 unlike the games it has been cloned after, once the game is finished, you cant scurry around stealing 
 cars and completing activities that you missed. Once its done, its done, and more than likely, 
 theres not going to be a lot to call you back to it.
  
  While its a fun little jaunt, there are a lot of ways this game could have been improved, especially 
 if youve had any experience with free-roaming, urban conflict games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da_Lench_Mob_1
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favoriteof all time. There are much more options, cars, cloths, and weapons to 
 choose from. Im not saying gta is bad and not worth it, i gave gta a 9.6, but this game deserves 
 a perfect 10 in every aspect. The gameplay is UNREAL, it makes me feel like i am in Stillwater. 
 The controls are easy and the camera is awsome too. I also like buying cloths, and actually earn 
 respect.
  
  The graphics are great too, the lighting effect is awsome. GTA did a half ass job with their graphics, 
 but saints row makes it all come to life. The charector detail is unreal.
  
  The sound, holy crap is too good for my t. v to handle. The effects of pipe bombs sounds are so 
 real, so do the gunshots. The car engine sounds more realistic too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhfurniture
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 24, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  SAINTS ROW is the bomb. the graphics are way better than GTA! The gameplay is awesome, and when 
 i say awesome i mean it. Anybody who judged this game by the images on the site is wrong. i rented 
 it and it is way better than the images. I recommend every violent game lover to buy this game. 
 It's a must have for true gamers. It's worth the $60. hurry up and buy it. trust me. it will be 
 your favorite violent game ever on the xbox 360. best violent game ever!! best violent game ever!! 
 best violent game ever!! best violent game ever!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mike_Louch
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 24, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  People can't help but compare Saints Row to GTA, just like everyone other game that has come before 
 SR. Well Saints Row is actually a game that is worth playin in such a style of game that is dominated 
 by the GTA Series. This game is goin to give GTA so comp. based on the success it gets. Of course 
 there are things to compare, but if u want to know some uniqueness bout the game, well there happens 
 to be things u can do that is not possible in GTA. And the fact alone that the sense of physics 
 is better than GTA games, madd me feel like its more realistic. For example, in GTA games ur character 
 could literally push a car just my running next to it, in Saints Row that's not possible. And I 
 like the fact that I have somewhut of a challenge with the shooting process, instead of the incredibly 
 easy auto lock-on, which takes the fun out of a game to me. I wanna know that if Im shootin at 
 someone it's under my control. Well overall, a good game that I would recommend to others! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row offers many features that's new compare to the previous GTA games. You can pretty much 
 customize any vehichle you want, dress your dude up in many different ways, over 15 different weapons 
 to use, you can race, pimp woman, you can be a drug dealer, you can be a hitman, lets just say 
 you can do tons of things. There are a couple things that dissapointed me about the game too, for 
 example there are no motorbikes, go karts, jet packs, and the most thing of all the leg on xbox 
 live. They really need a patch for the online multiplayer if they want people to keep on playing 
 Saint's Row. They need to come out with a couple of patches so we can enjoy the game even more. 
 Also when you finish the game and I mean finished the game when you've done almost everything, 
 the game gets pretty boring and the only thing that's left is the online play. So it's pretty important 
 for them to fix the horrible lag, some games the lag won't be so bad but at times it will be so 
 insane you just want to quit the match. The story is pretty good but the end is a shocker which 
 I won't say because I don't want to ruin it for the newcomers to Still Water. I still think Saint's 
 Row is a great game and it shouldn't be missed, if you have a chance rent it or even buy it. Plus 
 you have to see the explosions from the vehicles thier so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude141
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  i havent beat the whole thing yet but i know the core action is better than gta for sure , i has 
 rag doll physics that are great explosions are great ,sound of guns are great ,shadows are great, 
 voice acting is great , great soundtrack, i think there is somethings they could have done better 
 though for 1 , they could have added a bit more blood , for 2 ,a lil 2 much cursing ,3 , i think 
 there should be more random shootouts , maybe i gang member sets another off and the 2 gangs go 
 at it , that would bb cool, but other than that i think its better than gta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Thanks to the compentance of certain local retailers, I've only just now managed to get my hands 
 on Saints Row.
  Was it worth the wait?
  
  Most definately.
  I don't know what I can say about it noone else has.
  It's just a great, free-roaming action 
 game in the vain of GTA.
  
  The character customizability is an added bonus.
  And theres lots of stuff to do from insurance frauds to assassinations.
  
  The graphics are 
 pretty good and the music is decent.
  Sound effects are about average
  The only thing I can hold against it is it's sence of humor is I don't know, not quite as sophisticated 
 as GTA's. If you could call it that.
  But thats not really a problem.
  
  This would easily tie any GTA fan over til GTA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 3:39 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a very appealing game that allows you to become a Stillwater king. starting from 
 the streets of 3rd street saints row. customizing your character, you do your standard mission 
 of killing pondering, and rampaging. game play - very simple. the controls allow you to always 
 be in control of shooting and pointing of the camera. not auto aim feature doesn't help but you 
 perfect it while playing. driving is standards nothing special. the key to this game is the side 
 missions. various missions allow you to gain respect which is needed to do the story missions. 
 from mayhem (everyones favorite) to insurance fraud where you have to get into accidents for big 
 lump sums.
  
  overall - the game is fairly short and can be beat in a day if solely focused on just the game. 
 I recommend enjoying it the game with chaos, since thats what most people's eye caught on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Stillwater, a modern American city full of great food, commerce, and unrestricted gang 
 warfare. With the 3rd Street Saints, Vice Kings and the Carnales waging a city wide turf war for 
 supremacy, there has never been a better time to visit.
  
  The game opens up with your customized character getting caught in the crossfire of a gang war. 
 You are saved by Julius, the leader of the 3rd Street Saints, and are recruited into his gang in 
 an effort to clean up the streets. The first couple of missions serve as a sort of introductory 
 sequence that teaches you the mission structure of the game and introduces you to some core characters. 
 The game has three different story arcs, one for each rival gang, for you to tackle in whatever 
 order you would like.
  
  After each story mission you must build your respect before you will be offered the next one. There 
 are numerous ways to build your respect, but the easiest way to do it is to take on various side 
 missions located throughout the city. These missions range from drug trafficking to street racing. 
 The activities get harder as you complete them, maxing out at level 8 and awarding you a prize 
 such as unlimited shotgun ammo at your crib or taking less damage in car crashes.
  
  Almost all of activities are pretty fun, but the two most enjoyable are probably mayhem and insurance 
 fraud. In mayhem, you are tasked with going to a certain area of the city and causing as much damage 
 as you can within a certain amount of time. You are always given a few weapons with unlimited ammo 
 and bonuses for destroying certain targets. Destroying everything in sight with a rocket launcher 
 on mayhems level 8 is one of the most enjoyable moments of the game. In insurance fraud, you attempt 
 to throw yourself in front of traffic to collect money from lawsuits. You earn bonuses based on 
 things like air time, hitting police cars, and the number of witnesses.
  
  Besides those side missions, there are a few other ways of gaining respect. Robbing any store you 
 want will give you a small amount of respect. Tagging over other gangs graffiti will also net 
 you some respect. To help you speed up the time it takes to earn respect, you can spend your money 
 on clothes, jewelry, and tattoos for your character. These items give you respect bonuses when 
 you complete missions. Overall, the side mission system works pretty well. It creates a good pacing 
 for the game, preventing you from blowing through the missions in just a few hours.
  
  Besides allowing you to unlock new missions, as you gain more respect you will be able to recruit 
 more homies (up to three at one time) . Homies are friendly gang members which will help protect 
 you by shooting out of car windows while you drive and following you around on foot. They do a 
 pretty good job of helping you kill whoever is attacking you and hardly ever get stuck on objects 
 such as trees. When they die, you have thirty seconds to revive them before they are permanently 
 dead. At first this sounds like it would make the game too easy, but the homies are not overly 
 effective, and dont take too much to kill. If you had to go find new ones every time one of them 
 died, it would become pretty frustrating. So having 30 seconds to revive those that died turns 
 out to be pretty convenient.
  
  When you are not building up respect, you will literally be taking back the city block by block. 
 Completing a story mission in a certain area of the city will put that area under the control of 
 your gang. Controlling areas of the city actually has some impact on the gameplay. You will see 
 friendly gang members patrolling the streets, providing you a safe area to run to if you are being 
 chased by police or enemy gang members. Controlling different districts also gives you money every 
 day that you can get from your safe back at your crib. The more territory you control, the faster 
 you gain money. You also get new save points as well. The game allows you to save whenever you 
 want, placing you at the closest save point from where you saved when you reload the game. So controlling 
 more save points is definitely nice. Sometimes rival gangs will attack territory that you control, 
 at which point you need to stop whatever you are doing and rush there to help push back the attack. 
 If you wait too long, you risk losing your territory. This is a nice touch, and makes you feel 
 like you are just one small part of a larger turf war.
  
  The story missions themselves are pretty well designed and not overly difficult or annoying. There 
 were many missions in Grand Theft Auto 3 and Grand Theft Auto San Andreas that I personally found 
 extremely annoying and simply not fun to play. While the missions in Saints Row are challenging, 
 I didnt run across any annoying missions like those in the GTA games. I always felt like I was 
 making progress. The cinematic sequences for each of the missions are pretty well directed. The 
 voice acting is great as well. The storyline turns out to be memorable and one of the highlights 
 of the game.
  
  While playing the game, its safe to say that you will be doing a lot of driving and shooting. 
 The game features tons of cars, all with rock solid control. While none of them are real licensed 
 cars, they all look different from each other and handle differently as well.
  
  There is a pretty good selection of weapons in the game as well. Most of what you would expect 
 to see is here, including pistols, machine guns, rifles, rocket launchers, grenades and more are 
 present. The shooting controls are vastly improved over those of Grand Theft Auto, allowing you 
 to control the player like you would in a first person shooter. You wont find any lock on targeting 
 here. This goes a long way in making the firefights much more intense and fun then those in GTA.
 
  
  The game features other big enhancements over Grand Theft Auto, the most important of which is 
 the map system. At any point during the game you can bring up the map to set waypoints and locate 
 new activities and missions. You can sort the map by stores, activities, missions, strongholds, 
 and cribs to make finding locations very easy. The on screen minimap will show you the most efficient 
 route to your waypoint or next objective, which makes navigating around the city a breeze. This 
 is especially helpful during fast car chases.
  
  Another small but significant improvement is the ability to shoot enemies in cars through the windshield. 
 So instead of having to fill the car full of lead to get it to stop, you can instead take out the 
 driver with one well placed shot to the head. This is extremely useful while in car chases. Since 
 you can drive and shoot at the same time, its not that difficult to shoot the driver of the car 
 chasing you through his windshield.
  
  Besides those gamplay enhancements, Saints Row is also packing some amazing visuals. The entire 
 city of Stillwater is rendered in glorious high definition. Everything in the world is extremely 
 detailed. The game also features pretty good looking lighting and real time weather effects. The 
 cars in the game look excellent, especially the way they crumple on impact. When cars explode, 
 they send pieces of metal and tires flying everywhere. The frame rate is mostly pretty solid, though 
 it can take a dive at times when there is a ton going on. However, this never hindered my enjoyment 
 of the game.
  
  The biggest criticism that you could have against the game is its lack of originality. In my opinion, 
 there is nothing inherently wrong with a game copying another, especially when it manages to improve 
 on its inspiration. The fact that Saints Row sticks pretty close to the Grand Theft Auto formula 
 means that inherits many of the good qualities of the GTA series, making Saints Row a pretty good 
 game in the process. Since it does manage improve upon GTA in many aspects, its worth while for 
 fans of the GTA series to play it. Its probably fair to say that if you liked Grand Theft Auto 
 then you will enjoy Saints Row. If you found some aspects of GTA annoying, as I did, then it may 
 turn out that you like Saints Row even more. In my opinion, Saints Row is the best game of its 
 kind to be released. When GTA 4 comes out later on it may vary well topple Saints Row, but until 
 then, Saints Row is the king of free roaming action games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norberto1995
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 6:09 am PT
Review:  You can call Saints Row what you want ; a GTA rip-off , a Vice City wannabe and a GTA clone. Everything 
 is right but hey it's okay cause most of those sport guys are trying to be the best or better than 
 better ( that is what THQ wanted to do with Saints Row ) the idea's from Saints Row are not so 
 original but , what important is that your having a Next - Gen game infront of your nose that's 
 takes month's to find one. ( or even years ) In the beginning from the game you come into a gang 
 and i am not talking about a gang with a bunch of dorks , but real dangerous gangsters. To prove 
 yourself is by wrecking your own gang members until there KO. And to kidnap a few hos and blow 
 of the leader ! The game gives you much freedom so if you want be a criminal or terrorist but of 
 course there is a story to follow it's going about the fight with 3 other gangs you are one from 
 the Saint's of course. If you have enough respect points from the street than is the path to begin 
 new mission's. You must create your own character in Saints Row and you can later in the game start 
 how you want it with heavy tattoos , a gangster pants and everything what you need to be the man 
 on the streets. However on the street is every car to steal , every car has his own humour. ( So 
 one car is faster than the other the other has better music etc. ) It was hard with my own character 
 to choose a car cause every car is ready for you. Well a limousine is good enough for a real rich 
 gangster. Saints Row is not only a adventure game it has a online multiplayer function with 8 or 
 more players. And a other function is if you look to your map it will show you wicht the best route 
 is for your new mission so a kind Tom-Tom Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jets06ya
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Saints row is amazing. Me and my buddies have spent alot of time doing seemingly dumb **** Turning 
 on Evil Cars cheat (every car will go full speed and try to crush you) this is hilariously fun, 
 when you get hit full speed you go flying. The rag doll effects are amazing. Some of our favorite 
 tasks were. Crossing the bridge in one car before being pulverised. Trying to go 10 feet in that 
 little cop in a box 3 wheeled vehicle. And seeing who could get mutilated the most. Other then 
 that aspect, this game is nearly flawless. Great graphics, sound, multi player, gameplay, explosions. 
 I would strongly reccomend buying this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadesa
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I knew this was just a simple GTA rehash but it does it in style. With great voice acting and amazingly 
 compeling story this game basicly forces you to play all the way threw. With amazing character 
 creation you can produce any kind of character you wish to play. It has a great phsics engine that 
 i believe GTA has been lacking for years. It has great gameplay that doesnt get old quick. Although 
 there is some glichy parts that lead to some weird going on in stilwater, for example hitting an 
 invisible wall (that shouldnt even be there) and sending your car flying. This game is an amazing 
 example of how fun GTA style game play can be, expecially if the story is as amazingly as it is. 
 The only thing thats keeping this game from being AAA is the fact that is has been done before, 
 just not like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomcage
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game, the first of two games i got for the 360 both this game and just cause. i can 
 honestly say that out of those two gta rip off games saints row is definatly the best. this game 
 is essencialy a pretty version of gta 3 with tighter controls. the fact that you can customise 
 your character is a nice touch, effects such as exposions are very well done and look great along 
 with the character models. Some of the side missions such as drug trafficing, mayhem (essencialy 
 rampage from GTA) and my personal favorate insurance fraud are well implemented. However, many 
 of the other side missions aren't fun and the story missions force you into playing them which 
 at times can be very annoying. The game also just has cars no helicopters or bikes and stuff which 
 made vice city and san andreas great. i also had major issues with the multiplayer which was just 
 plain crap and a huge let down. Despite this saints row comes recomended its a fun game and will 
 tide any gta fan over untill gta 4 comes out which im sure were all looking forward to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimension4
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  many people thaught this was going to be way better then gta but i am a master of expectations 
 of any new coming game and i was right. this wasnt all the hype it was thaught to be
  
  it's still worth getting if your into the GTA type games and it is more of a shooter end of a feel 
 on it to make it differnt. GTA still wins in single player fun but the main thing this takes in 
 would be the online multiplayer. when this game first came it was laggy but now the online has 
 been cleaned, it's online is more like a shooter game in urban enviroments and has cars which makes 
 it nice and it also has 2 great all new game modes never before seen in other games such as Protect 
 Tha Pimp and Blinged Out Ride which should take a big load of your time just playing on and on 
 with
  
  if you dont have online this game can be worth getting for a hold over of 20 hours of GTA familiar 
 gamming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gangsta_OG
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  .. And if u cant wait for GTA IV to come out a must buy for saints row it lives up 2 its name and 
 people who say it is crap it s probably cuz here jealous cuz they aint got it and they aint got 
 an xbox 360. and of cause u will need an xbox 360 2 get GTA IV or unless u buy a PS3 which will 
 ave pretty much the same games. and 4 people who ave completed saints row afta da ending who thinks 
 der will be anotha 1?... cuz i think there will be even thou he mite be dead! : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xsimmonsx
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 3:25 am PT
Review:  As a big GTA fan I have come across some bad clone title in my time, this however is up with worst 
 of them. At 1st glance the game its self isnt too bad, no way near what next gen graphics should 
 be however (Just Cause &amp; Oblivion for instance) . The cars damage nice, the shadow effects are 
 pleasant, and its the small things like the cars indicating for a change (ever smashed into vehicles 
 you didnt think would change lanes while doing racing missions in gta?) .
  
  Its got an easy pick up &amp; play approach, like you can explore the whole map from go, and apart 
 from the cool rag doll effects on peds &amp; items nothing really stands out as special. The radio 
 stations I kept off as the adverts were annoying, the music was bland and I died way too often 
 on simple missions due to either the fact I refused to spend $100+ on a health item or my car caught 
 fire &amp; blew my character sky high out of it before Ive even had a chance to push Y and escape.
 
  
  Although the game controls handle ok, its no way near worth the &pound;50 price tag at the moment, 
 if youre a GTA fan &amp; thats what youre use to wait until this titles in the sale for like 
 &pound;25 or buy it for a few days before GTA IV to warm you up, other wise youll only get peeved 
 at the constant crap cut scenes, bad gaming bugs &amp; lets try too hard to be funny sex puns on 
 the radio.
  
  I bought my 1st 360 a few weeks back just so I could play Dead Rising &amp; the main facts now 
 are Saints Rows going back to the shop for a refund &amp; Dead risings going back in the tray for 
 more achievement point findings! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tikimonkey4
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 21, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  When you first play Saint's Row you may be slightly confused, because you think you've somehow 
 stumbled upon GTA4, but then you watch the opening sequence and realize that the story lacks any 
 depth.
  
  The main character has no name, or defining features, instead you decide exactly what they look 
 like (mine looks like me) , he also never says more than a few words throughout the entire game. 
 But basically, your character... how about Eric (me) , has been recruited by the Saint's (a local 
 gang) to take control of the city of Stilwater. There are three gangs in Stilwater and, after a 
 few brief introductory missions, you will get to destroy them in pretty much any order you please.
 
  
  The game controls almost exactly like a GTA game, you steal cars, beat up ho's, and bring your 
 underdog gang to the ranks of gangsta supremacy. Most of these controls feel fluid and natural, 
 except for shooting while driving, which is just horrible. The game does a good job at allowing 
 the player to keep track of just how powerful their gang has gotten by showing all of the different 
 gang areas on the map, also there will be a lot of missions where you are simply trying to take 
 over a gang's area. Unfortunately, all of these features are a simply good evolution on what San 
 Andreas has already originated. But this game has things GTA games don't, activities. Whether it's 
 drug trafficking, snatching ho's, or committing insurance fraud you're always on top of Stilwater's 
 underbelly. However, while these activities may be fun for the first couple of times, after you've 
 done drug trafficking 24 times, each getting progressively harder, you are going to want to kill 
 yourself.
  
  Now, in GTA these features were optional, but in Saint's Row you need to do them to get respect 
 to move on to more missions, which only aims to slow down the speed of the game tremendously.
 
  
  The game's graphics are great and character animations are surprisingly realistic. The only problem 
 is that every once in a while the game will glitch a little and everything will look weird, but 
 this usually goes after after a second or two.
  
  The voice acting is very good as well as the song selection, which is full of more modern songs 
 than those who play GTA are used to.
  
  The online multiplayer mode is pretty fun and adds some much needed longevity to the game's short 
 storyline, although not strong enough to be a selling point on it's own.
  
  Overall Saint's Row is a pretty good game. Those of you who like GTA will probably enjoy this game 
 too and it should do a good a job of holding you off until next October. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antonius05
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome, the graphics are amazing, the explosions of cars and tanks blows me away, 
 and Missions are fun to play. The graphics is truly nex-gen, awesome character customization, customizing 
 a person in great depth with four different race. Huge selection of clothings to chose from in 
 the game and along with that there is a update with 60+ new clothes from Xbox Live Marketplace. 
 The good thing about this character customization is that whenever you feel like changing the look, 
 you can a find a store in the game to allow you to rechange the look of ur character. The one thing 
 that impresses me the most is the explosions of cars and tanks. When I first downloaded the demo, 
 I played for hours destroying any cars i see with a grenade. But if there are too much explosion 
 on screen, the game does slow down a bit but other than that its great. The online multiplayer 
 is where i don't like. I play the game online so I can get the achievements I need. There's a lot 
 of lags online and I don't like how you win money when you win or lose. To achieve the Clipper 
 Coupons achievement, you have to play the game online for a very long time because when you lose 
 u get $15.00 and when you win you get $45.00. Not a whole lot. So buying clothes online are using 
 $1,000 or more. Totally Retarded! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RamboneForever
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm was never really in to the GTA series as alot of gamers were, I mean, I thought it was a cool 
 concept and a good story, but I just never got into it.
  THQ has come out with what some are calling their GTA ,I personnaly like this game better than 
 GTA, it might be because it is on a next-gen console and the graphics are amazing or just because 
 it has that aggressivness and good features that GTA lacked.
  I'm not into the whole gang thing or whatever, but it is a good game with a suprisingly good story 
 and pretty cool missions, I mean some could have used some work, but it is still a good part of the 
 game.
  The weapons in Saints Row are generic:
  
  and a rpg (rocket launcher)
  The weapons department 
 could have used a little bit of an upgrade feature, but it wasn't really anything anyone wasn't 
 expecting from this kind of game.
  The other features such as the clothes stores and the jewelery storeswere ok and the tatto selection 
 at the parlors was decent, but the character creation feature was pretty good (there is a plastic 
 surgeon you can go to in the game where you can change your appearence completely) the options 
 they had in the game was pretty good, this is on of the features that goes away from GTA and it 
 is a prtty cool one too, it's better than being a charcter thats already chosen for you or you having 
 about 8 pre-made characters to choose from.
  
  When I first heard of the game I wasn't thinking about even playing it, but I decided to give it 
 a try and it wasn't that bad and was a suprise to me since I started to like so much I didnt stop 
 playing it for a while and still haven't.
  This game is cool, the story is good and the graphics are not perfect, but good enough.
  This game 
 is a good game to have if you've ever played the GTA games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReStLesslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This is a typical sand box game it let`s you free in almost everything and now we can expect the 
 future of GTA It has the Havok 2.0 engine wich was used in oblivion so it has really nice graphics.
 
  The game plays like the GTA on the xbox only you don't have that cool GTA feeling this is more 
 and better but GTA IV is announced god knows how goosd that gane is going to be.
  If you want something diffrent than GTA here's your go it pretty awesome.
  If you are doubting 
 plaese rent it first coz sometimes the game could be very very frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdawg1003
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  thiis game i give a 9 out of ten there are many things that you can do that you cant in grang theft 
 auto. the graphics holy crap this is a game that you should get 60 dollars my seem like a lot but 
 the gamplay is worth the 60 buks go out and get thiss game i got the game when it first came out 
 soon after that my 360 broke then i got a new one saints ow was the game that i played first when 
 i firstvplayed the game it blew my mind i thought it was a rip off of grand theft auto but soon 
 i noteced that it was better thn grand theft auto and i am a big grand theft auto fan i ben plaing 
 the grand theft auto games sinse the first one but back on the subject this game is well worth 
 the 60 dollors 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahnee
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Saints row let's you make you own character from the ground up. You can choos betwean 4 races.... 
 Ah, forget about this. You probebly heard this a hundred times.
  
  The graphics, while great, has it's flaws and good parts. The bad is the pop-up can sometimes get 
 irritating, and during night the game doesn't look as good as during day time. The shadows and 
 lighting effect are probebly the best parts of the graphics. They're being rendered in real-time, 
 and the 24 hour day/night cycle is also amazing. The shaders on the walls, houses and objects in 
 the world take adavtage of the xbox 360 shader model. But, what really will remind you about saints 
 row are the explosions. They are just superb. when throwing a pipe bom into someone's car, it will 
 always give you a unique explosion, depending on where the pipe bom explodes. the animationa are 
 also wicked cool. The havok psychics are being used really well in this game, later on that though. 
 character models look also good, with yours and other cutscene characters looking the best. however, 
 some can lack of amount of polygons, wich will result in blocky heads. the game also has some wierd 
 glitches sometimes. But aside from that, you won't be dissapointed by the graphics of saints row, 
 but i just expected a little more.
  
  the gameplay in saints row is better than what i expected. it is better than gta, yes, but in a 
 different way. Saints row is more based on respect and gangs, while gta keeps itself busy with 
 all sorts of things. Saints row doesn't have the helicopters, or the motorcycles, but it has allot 
 more extra that actually makes allot of sense why they didn't put in any helicopters. saints row 
 uses the havok psychics very well. the activity, insurance fraud, let's you swing yourself around 
 by pressing he triggers. This can result to really funny moments, and moments you would've never 
 expected. Saints row activities are a blast. They are actually worth playing and actually have 
 a goal unlike gta. Every activity is totally different and very original. Like is said, insurance 
 fraud, mayhem, hitman, street racing etc.... the story line is suprisingly better than i was expeting, 
 with amazing cutscenes. I just love it to see my own created guy in action. When you completed 
 a mission, you can always go to the cinema, wich is located somewhere in the saints territory, 
 and replay every mission but than with your current status and weapons and clothes on. You'll also 
 notice that everytime you replay a mission, charcters or look totally different or wear totally 
 different clothes. There's allot of reaply value indeed. Pimping cars is really nice, but i expected 
 more. IGN was stating that it even rivals the need for speed series incase of the amount of parts 
 for the cars. But there're only 2 bumpers and 2 to 4 items per part for the cars. But, i won't 
 make a big fuss about that, since people are never happy with what their get, i just leave it at 
 this point. The end also leaves a message for a sequel, but you go figure what the ending is, wich 
 i already did. There's allot of theories spreading around, but my guess is there will be a saints 
 row 2.
  
  All in all, Saints row accomplishes to copy gta, improve allot of things and add a bunch of fun 
 stuff and make an absolutely great story, you'll get an amazing game, wich is more than that. (btw, 
 more on the multiplayer whent he patch comes out) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doubat903
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  It wasn't the best game I've ever played, I had never played a GTA type style game before so I 
 thought it was a blast.
  
  The controls handle really well and the side missions are great, my favorite would be the soccer 
 mom escort for drug trafficing.
  
  If the game was just Single Player I could probably give it a 9, but unfortunetly the Multiplayer, 
 while having great potential just is bad, it's very laggy and takes forever to find a match.
  
  My advice: Its a good 20 hour Single Player game but the Multiplayer just isn't there, so either 
 Gamefly it for a few weeks and play it, or rent it a couple times, or once if you play it non stop 
 its definetly worth a play just not worth owning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pookers47
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty, its nothing special, nothing bad, nothing that great and nothing new. But none 
 the less its still a great game to have in your xbox 360 collection since there are no other that 
 fit this particular GTA genre so well at this time. The game basically takes all the elements that 
 you would see in a GTA game and expand on them and make them better, resulting in some pretty fun, 
 impressive and innovative new features. Its still the running, gunning, driving and navigating 
 through an open ended city like you would think. The differences are the ability aim your weapons 
 when shooting manually and quite impressive in a third person manner, similar to games of the hitman 
 series. The driving in some areas feels more solid than that of the GTA games. You can even shoot 
 while in cars quite nicely to a great extent, though requires some skill. The is a lack of vehicle 
 types in terms of there being no boats, planes or motorcycles which would of added a fun factor 
 but is not really necessary since there is a vast amount of cars to choose from each varying in 
 scale, some faster, some slower. The weapon load out is quite nice and the firing of guns suprisingly 
 feels quite nice, alot better than GTA. Another major pointer is that story is somewhat better 
 than GTA in which it is more interesting though nothing extravagent. The graphics are not bad nor 
 the best but you can tell the game is being played on a 360. The sound is also quite good from 
 atmosphere, ambience, soundtrack to sound effects as well the voice actors. The online play is 
 probably the biggest surprise for me because as most people would think it to be stupid its actually 
 pretty fun, given that if you actually find a lag free game. The patch I believe fixed all of the 
 online problems which is good allowing people to enjoy a entertaining online mode with multiple 
 variants of game modes though the onlne is nothing amazing nor not that addictive or challenging. 
 Just a surprise and nice add on to a pretty lengthy game. I have yet to still finish the game and 
 its worth mention that the interface and extra and new features are done quite well such as the 
 mini game of insurance fraud. With that being said, if your looking for a game and going through 
 a phase of boredom, then consider taking a look at Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aryandc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  GOOD JOB TAKE IT KNOW AND HAVE FUN TIMES ?!
  
  DO u need gta are u tired to play gta 
 this for your time game is ok it ned time and love to start the game if you are a gammer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael5076
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot more to it than tha gta games... no doubt they are great games but.... (srry 
 to all tha loyal gta fans) but saints row just kicked their ass. a lot more missions and cariety 
 to this game. if wake up one morning and decide you want to rob a liquor store you can... want 
 to pimp out a ride go ahead. the only thing i miss is being able to pick up hoes and revive you 
 health. I also like the fact that you can have your homies ride with you on missions or to just 
 rob some stores or maybe and occasonal drive by. but like i said before this game is better than 
 the gta games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshismetal
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  saints row is an awesome game hands down and im a huge Grand theft fan too. Its great to see a 
 next gen open world gangster game with great graphics, gameplay and story. Also the new feature 
 to hit this type of game is the rag doll feature and flying through the windshield. that is just 
 great. Also the other features that are good is the character design and the fact that all the 
 npc's actually have some look to them. Another thing that is great is all the car customizing. 
 Thats addicting. Another great thing is first person shooter aiming and not a faulty auto-aim system. 
 The only slight problem is the music is stupid but the talk show is funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  This game is a GTA clone, but its the best one to hit the market. The game expands enough on the 
 GTA formula to make it a success.
  The single player game is great. You begin by customizing your character, from skin color to how 
 big your eyebrows are. Its pretty detailed. You join a gang called Saints Row and basically its 
 up to you and your gang to take control of the streets by taking three gangs out one at a time.
 
  There is also tons of side missions that will keep you occupied in between missions. You must 
 complete min-missions in order to do the main missions. The more you do, the higher your respect 
 bar.
  The game features all the things you would find in a GTA game. Nice variety of cars, clothing shops, 
 food places (theres only one) , gun shops and many more.
  The map is big. I would say that GTA San Andreas was bigger. The music is where the game falls 
 short. It features a lot of unknown songs. The music is nothing like the GTA series. The game tries 
 to hard to do those comical radio broadcast but fail miserably. The graphics are good for a game 
 that has so much. The multi-player is good but could have been better. There are a few game types 
 that add variety. The online game play suffers from lag but it is possible to get a good game going 
 from time to time. When you win, either solo or team, you gain money so you can add to your online 
 wardrobe. There are a lot of things to the game that you can find in your GTA games. Saints Row 
 is a fulfilling experience and is truly a fun game that will keep you coming back for more.
  
  A good way to sum this up is that its an enternaining game, but once GTA IV comes out, this 
 game will be long forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bam416
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game is a great game but the multiplayer sucks balls they could have done better on it 
 but it is a really fun game but it will never compare with gta it will always be second but it 
 has to be credited for it being funner then gta do to the fact that it.... well it is just fun but 
 gta is a classic and will always be the best. to but it in to prespective that they almost bet 
 gta in my world but the fact is that it i so FUN that game can become addicting to you so i suggest 
 that you go get the game it is a must buy so if you love to play game like gta this is the one 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row actually turned out a WHOLE lot better than I expected. I expected a huge rip off of 
 GTA, which it is, however Saint's Row offers you alot of things GTA didn't (but wheres the damn 
 motorcycles?. For example, fully customizalbe character from the get go. Before you start playing 
 you choose his race as well as his facial features, his hairstyle you name it. You eventually get 
 to cover him with tattooes as well as bling and the best style of clothing. As I said, fully customizable. 
 You also get to full customize your ride. It offers you great looking graphics to help you believe 
 that you are the maion savior for the gang the Saint's. It also gives you the long awaited online 
 gang fights, something that everyone has been wanting in GTA for years. Though it is fun as hell 
 and addicting, it has a huge flaw. LAG. I swear, this is the laggiest game of all time. But what 
 gets me is that it only lags in ranked games, if you do a custom game it experiences very little 
 to no lag at all. Stumped? So am I. So online play offers you Bling out Ride where you are your 
 crew must go out and collect enough chains to have money to bling out your piece of s*** ride. 
 The best however is Protect The Pimp where you and your crew go off against another group and neeed 
 to protect your pimp while the others try to kill him. It may sound stupid yes, however it is very 
 well executed and addicting as hell. But as I said before, the lag kills it. The single player 
 mode has very well constructed gameplay. It has a great aiming system as well as weapon selection, 
 great music and voiceovers as well as extremely satisfying missions. It runs off of a respect system 
 which you need a certain amount of respect to proceed onto the main missions. To earn more respect 
 you must complete side missions or jack a car with passengers in it a start hostage (which is the 
 easiest and quickest way to earn respect) . The main idea of the game is to conquer the the three 
 other gangs territories and become the one and only gang in the city. Its a great game that has 
 it share of flaws, especially in the online department, but that doesn't stop if from being a great 
 title. Its good to see someone has finally learned the GTA formula without screwing it up. Its 
 a great first addition to a future franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTAWATER
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  To be quite honest with you, Saint's Row is a whole lot better than GTA: SA. The missions are better, 
 the side missions are awesome, taking up more time than the story itself, and the car customization 
 is top notch. The graphics are amazing, ecspecially when you start blowing up tons of vehicles 
 in the street. The ability to change your character when ever you wanted to really makes the game 
 one step ahead because if you felt like being a super fat gangsta, well you could, for $300. The 
 main story is set up into the different gangs. I found it easier to take on one at a time so I 
 wasn't getting multiple gangs trying to take over my turf. Cutsences always set the pace for the 
 missions in the main story mode and the voice acting is really good and really funny sometimes. 
 The side missions will give you some bonuses if you take the time to complete them. Absolute best 
 side missions is the Hitman Activity. In my opinion, it offers the best bonuses in the game. Well, 
 I'm not even going to go into multiplayer because I haven't even tried that yet but I'm sick of 
 telling you about this game. Go get the game! It'll definitely take up your time till Gears of 
 War comes out next month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakout247
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is a great game to just free roam. The world (or city, rather) is yours to play with. 
 Everything is interactive, it's basically a virtual life. Although free roaming games are nothing 
 new to gaming, Saint's Row brings a lot of great new features to the table.
  
  Saint's Row is a beautiful game. The city looks amazing, the people, the cars, everything is beyond 
 great. There are some noticeable graphic glitches that could probably be patched pretty easy with 
 the 360's auto-patch update system. It has been reported that while driving, passing cars just 
 seem to disappear in midair for no reason, there are even some videos to back it up. Strangely 
 enough after hours of driving I really haven't had this problem. Maybe I'm just lucky. Only once 
 did I notice something similar, which was a quick (about 2 seconds) flash the road I was driving 
 on completely disappeared and came back. I didn't really think anything of it knowing about the 
 random disappearing cars. It's still not that big of a deal to me either way.
  
  The story mode however (with great integration with regular free roam, I might add) I didn't enjoy 
 so much. Nearly every mission involves sex and drugs, which got old VERY fast. So much so, that 
 it became annoying and repetitive. If the game developers broadened the missions more, or added 
 more humor to the cut scenes, I believe this game would be great. Most of the humor usually has 
 to do with sex or drugs anyway, it was just straight up annoying.
  
  I didn't have a chance to try the online multiplayer games (I only have a Silver account) so I 
 can't comment on that, although there have been lots of buzz everywhere about latency issues. In 
 conclusion, Saint's Row is a great free-roaming game. Tons of fun to do anything you want, anytime 
 you want. And if you have a lot of homies, it's even more fun! I didn't enjoy the story mode, but 
 I would still recommend this game just for the free roaming. It has limitless replay value, which 
 is a great game that you just want to keep playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeskates5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great game for the Xbox 360! It is like GTA but... even better with alot more action! 
 If you like explosions this is the game for you, plus it is in high defenition so the details are 
 amazing!!! The city of Still Water is filled with gangs, you have to own Still Water as you go 
 through the game you will do missions and get territories. I wont say any more only i would recomend 
 this game to anyone! I think it is better than Grand theft auto you can make your own character 
 and customize your cars with really awsome features! You also can buy food, drinks, and clothes 
 for your person! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nextgengaming18
Rating: 5.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  gamespot was nice to give Saints row a 8.3 because it had a terrible story, a cheap rip-off of 
 gta, and had horrible gameplay. Multiplayer game sucked. The game was all in all a disgrace to 
 gta genre. I did play it and was not satisfied at all by the game. The horrible mini miission games 
 were meant for a 9 year old, not for a college student. The main character didn't say one word, 
 and the characters in the game were so childish and idiotic. All in all this game resembles how 
 bad a developer volition inc is and I will never buy another game buy them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griff767
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is called saints row... its a very nice loooking game that has great replayability, (its 
 a free roaming game like grand theft auto) You can change your person to look like anyone you want 
 a pimp, a muscleman, a black guy with an afro.. anything you want. The story is great, its about 
 retaking the city. the graphics are great. the multiplayer is great, protect tha pimp is always 
 fun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . unless you have a bad connection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick917
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  THQ together with Volition Inc have pounced on a very popular genre of video game, bringing out 
 a GTA style crime game well before GTA4 hits the 360, in hope of selling the game as a good enough 
 until GTA 4 gets here game. Saints row's positive points include its good looking graphics, wide 
 selection of cars and character customisation options. However there are many parts about the game 
 that could be improved, maybe in Saints Row 2? These include the mediocre soundtrack, complete 
 lack of any vehicle that is NOT a car and its rather predictable storyline. With all this said 
 however, like i mentioned earlier this game is a helpline for every GTA fan who is waiting until 
 the 2007 release of GTA4 (myself included) to give them a similar game (but nowhere near as good) 
 while they wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kollawona
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  Saintsrow is a great game for the X-Box 360 and Mobile. I defininetly recomend it. Some people 
 people say its a GTA clone but not really. Don't think I hate gta or anything ot like Saintsrow 
 more I mean I am huge GTA fan and I can tell you it isn't so much like GTA. Although I though it 
 would be more a Ghetto than the game is I was kind of disapointed but was still very fun. Saintsrow 
 is a game you want to do without cheats because the cheats get you through the game very fast and 
 once your done side missions are the only things left to do wich are somewhat fun. The story is 
 very short there are a somewhat few missions because at a moment you have to take over hoods to 
 reach the final mission of the gang. And taking over hoods is both hard and sometimes boring. Clothing 
 is good but there isn't as much as I though but... the good thing about this is you get to download 
 some on the Market Place on X-Box Live. Saintsrow is a great game I recomend playing it without 
 the cheats and it will be hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davegod
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 16, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a game that people will hate simply because Rockstar was there first. But once you 
 get past the GTA 'clone' perception, there's much fun to be had. I'll start with the bad. The dialogue 
 tries to be funny but mostly isn't. Over zealous swearing attempts to give a gangsta feel but just 
 sounds forced and the car modding option isn't as deep as one would like.
  
  However, the good outweighs the bad. The character customisation is detailed and enjoyable. Blowing 
 things up is sheer joy and driving isn't too bad. Also, the mini-games are great fun.
  
  If you can enjoy being a gangbanger one more time, then buy this game. Many others have been called 
 GTA clones, but this Saints Row is the only one worth forking out your cash for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar should be getting royalty checks in the mail every week. It appears that tons of companies 
 are taking their basic ideas from GTA and making their own game, sans a new location and some minor 
 gameplay features. True Crime, Driver, and even games like Jak 2 and Tony Hawk have used the mission-based 
 open ended style of gameplay where anything goes. Although Saints Row is a blatant carbon copy 
 of GTA, it does it with excellent precision, and even adds a few new things to the genre that make 
 it the best clone out there.
  
  Saints Row plays out like your typical gang based story shooter. Your unnamed protagonist is suddenly 
 thrown into a gang war between neighboring gangs, and using the help of friends and a power hungry 
 boss, it is up to you to take control of the town and regain glory for your gang. Of course youve 
 heard this before, because it is basically the same story in all three of the Grand Theft Auto 
 games, however, Saints Row does a good job of breaking up the action by offering mini-games to 
 implore you throughout the game. The city of Stillwater is broken down basically into four little 
 islands, all grouped together by a giant interstate highway. There are three rival gangs you need 
 to get rid of in Stillwater, and each groups missions offer a different storyline depending on 
 the group. So naturally, you can choose any mission you want at any time, and you dont have to 
 stick with one gang until you finish it. However, the story feels a little convoluted at times, 
 and even with focusing on one of the minor plots, the story feels twisted and oddly out-of-place. 
 So sticking with one group till the end is naturally the best path to take.
  
  Part of the fun of Saints Row is basically there is just so much to do. The missions do a great 
 job of giving something new to players, such as blowing up a skyrise and shooting packs and packs 
 of guys. But in order to take part in these missions, you must first accumulate Respect. Respect 
 is needed in order to play the missions in the game, whether they are the main ones or regaining 
 territory. Respect can only be earned by doing the many side missions scattered around Stillwater. 
 These side missions really offer a new branch of gameplay ideas, as some of the events are so well 
 executed and fun to play, you will forget about the story all together. You can now also customize 
 the character you want to play as, with tons of options such as hair color, skin tone, hair style, 
 and even ethnicity. Throughout the game you will get to buy new clothes to give your character, 
 all ranging from basketball shorts to stylish expensive Italian clothing. Different styles of clothing 
 and even the color can also affect your Respect, earning you more points for the missions you do.
 
  
  Although the purpose of earning Respect is so that you can advance the story, you can essentially 
 do every side mission in Stillwater; rack up enough Respect points so you dont have to take a 
 break in the story. While this may account for a quicker pace, it is sometimes necessary to engage 
 in some minor meaningless events to get out the frustrations that some missions may give you. Besides 
 the side missions and main story ones, players have the option of doing optional territory missions, 
 which require you to advance upon an enemy gang who has taken control of your turf, and simply 
 put, violently regain it.
  
  These missions usually involve killing tons of people, and are basically just an add-on to Saints 
 Row to give it more length. If not plotted on your map, sometimes you will get a phone call in 
 between missions that a rival gang has taken control of a certain part of your territory. You than 
 have to race to that point, take out the leader, and clear out any remaining members. This offers 
 a break in the monotony, and tries to focus on how gang rivalries are always in effect.
  
  The action in Saints Row is really top notch. Probably the biggest problem plaguing GTA is the 
 horrible lock-on feature when shooting. Saints Row has one standard circle in the middle of the 
 screen, which is used to aim. It is somewhat hard to control at first, but after it while it becomes 
 second nature. You can also shoot forward now when driving a car and the car controls the same 
 as it does in the GTA games. So now you have a much more complete control over your character, 
 and you wont feel so vulnerable all the time. Your character can also hold one type of weapon 
 at any given time, one type of pistol, one type of automatic, etc. Also, added to the menu is the 
 ability to hold food to replenish your health. While your health refills automatically like Halo, 
 if you take too many shots in a short amount of time, you will be killed. Food bought at stores 
 as well as alcohol and even drugs, can be attributed to the D-Pad hotkeys, allowing for quick and 
 easy health pick-ups. Similar to GTA, Saints Row gives players the ability to recruit fellow gang 
 members to join you on your missions. While the AI is quite bad, your teammates do a good job of 
 shooting wildly in the air, which is good for distracting the cars chasing you, or annoying the 
 hell out of other shooters, which gives you enough time to get away. While you usually can kill 
 everyone in the missions by your lonesome, if it usually essential to always bring your friends 
 with you, as they can create a great diversion in the action, sometimes pitting you with an ultimate 
 strategy. But some of the best new gameplay mechanics come in the form of exploration. Saints Row 
 has equipped the map with a sort of GPS device, which shows you the exact route you need to take 
 to get to your required destination. Gone are the days of constantly pausing to see where you have 
 to go. The waypoint, as they are so appropriately called, also change accordingly if you wander 
 down the wrong roads. Visually, Saints Row looks quite good for the sheer amount of length and 
 action into the game. However, the game tends to shift back and forth between really good looking 
 visuals to mediocrity. Sometimes, most cutscenes will look like they would appear on the original 
 Xbox, while some give some of the best Xbox 360 games a run for their money. There are often times 
 in the game when I encountered slowdowns in moments of high frequency and intense action. Also, 
 the soundtrack in the game is quite good, ranging from rap to rock, and techno to talk radio. There 
 is great diversity in all of the stations, but some songs tend to play over and over again, which 
 usually sounds like they are the only songs on that one station. This could get boring extremely 
 fast in a game that lasts for more than 25 hours. Overall, Saints Row does a great job of giving 
 fans of the genre what they expected to see. By offering a great storyline with impressive action 
 and a much needed enhanced exploration feature, Saints Row is the definitive choice for all GTA 
 fans on the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwirvyIrvy
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 16, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  I didn't really hear much about Saint's Row until about a fortnight before it's released so I decided 
 to look it up and see what it was about. I thought the story about how the 3rd Street Saint's are 
 trying to win back the 'Row' by taking out the other gangs was a 'been there done that' sort of 
 storyline. About a week before it's release when the reviews started coming in and it was saying 
 it was a really good game I thought I'd go and buy it as GTA 4 wasn't going to be released for 
 at least another year.
  
  When I first put it in I was expecting another True Crime style game but I was mistaken. I thought 
 the ability to fully customise your character was a very good and original idea for this genre.
 
  To get used to the controls of the game I decided to get into a car and drive around and the first 
 thing I heard was a song by Twista, which was surprising as I didn't expect any licensed material 
 for the game.
  The further I progressed into the game the better weapons I got and I found a nice little rocket 
 launcher which got me excited so I shot a through rockets at cars and was surprised at the detail 
 of destruction and the detail of the explosion.
  
  The storyline is a typical GTA style go out and kill people sort of plot but with different twists 
 such as missions where you have to break into the police station and rob back drugs and fight off 
 the FBI, rescue your friend from enemy gangs and even blow up a recording studio.
  
  I enjoyed the activities you can do but I got annoyed about how you have to do these activites 
 to get your respect bar up to do the missions, but you can gfet respect by hostage missions and 
 killing gangs which is relatively easy. Also the Stronghold missions are a good idea. These are 
 when you go to an enemy hideout and take it over.
  
  I was very surprised at actually how good it was but a little disappointed on how easy some of 
 the missions can be and how not hard, but annoying others can be. This game I believe is better 
 than GTA: SA but I don't think it will be better than GTA 4, but maybe a Saint's Row 2 could knock 
 the wind out of GTA's sails! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iBoxCarBobi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  If people love GTA series, they will love this game. Although it is not as complex and detailed 
 as San Andreas, it is still awsome. In my Opinion the Graphics are amazing. The ability to customize 
 your character the way u want it, also adds a lot to the game. The ability to customize the cars, 
 is one of the reasons why i fell in love with this game. The number of different missions and other 
 activities is really good. There is always something to do. But it might take a while to compleat 
 all the activities. I though that the whole story was very well done. Although some people might 
 not like the ending, i thought that it made the game better. Maybe there will be a sequel to tell 
 us what happend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan3669
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is single handedly the best game since GTA. GTA was amazing and when San Andreas was 
 released you would think that not much could top that, but along comes Saints Row. This game has 
 great sound effects from music on the radio to gun shots and explosions. The graphics are unique 
 to the uniqness of the game itself. The story line is amazing and its ending makes you beg for 
 another one. There are plenty of sidemissions to complete in order to completly finish all the 
 achievements. The achievements are tough to obtain for the mutiplayer because they take time and 
 skill to achieve. All in all if you are a fan of GTA style games but instead of singlehandedly 
 taking down an entire city, its your whole gang to take contol, you will love Saint's Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 14, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  The Good &gt;
  - Outstanding Graphics
  - The Map waypoint feature is priceless
  - Voice-over is top notch
  - Explosions are pretty impressive
  - Cars look and drive great
 
  - Cool Character Creation and Customization + Clothing - Car Customization a plus
  - At least 20 hours of gameplay / I'm at 45 hrs
  - Homies accompanying you on missions is great
 
  - Escort Missions are hilarious
  
  The Bad &gt;
  - Gets pretty repetitive after a while
  - Driving to another end of the map gets really really 
 tedious
  - Can get you dizzy like GTA if you play too long, not as much though
  - No bikes/airplanes/boats to drive
  - Limited interaction with pedestrians
  - Day/Night cycle 
 is sometimes a pain / Closed shops
  - Achievements are not well balanced / very time consuming
  - Proper Guide/Tutorial is missing 
 to explain ALL game features
  - Minor graphical glitches on highways
  - Frame rate slowdown in car races with nitro on
  - GTA Soundtrack (especially Vice City) is 
 ten times better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shotgun4292
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 14, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row was a fun and enjoyable game. The game has some of the best graphics to date on the 
 XBOX 360. Many people have said this is a GTA rip off well I agree and disagee. The story has some 
 simularities but also took a diffrent drection where you are doing more then just driving mitions 
 where in GTA that is baisicly all you do. Charicter creater is the best I have ever seen and is 
 great whitch GTA did not do. It is also XBOX LIVE compatible GTA did not have that. Now we cant 
 exactly judge GTA yet seeing how the last GTA came out in 2004 on a current gen consle. Saints 
 Ro w I think is currently the top urban baased game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebjunior
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Saints row really suprised me and is not a complete rip-off of GTA. For some examples the side 
 missions are very different and actually some are funny. One of the interesting side missions is 
 Insurance Fraud, in which you cause the most damage to yourself without dying in the time allowed. 
 There are many other interresting side missions. Also the main missions and story are as fun too. 
 But some of the storyline gets out of control and stupid at times. And one of the worst features 
 in this game is the character you play and create is mute during the entire game except for about 
 3 sentences in the game including: I hope you don't mind hepatitus! .....
  All in all I'd say give this game a shot but one bad thing about it is that it has almost NO replay 
 value at all once you finsih the game and is not an open ended game.... once it is over... its 
 over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdc929
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  From all the hype surrounding this game, some claiming its superiority over the well-known GTA 
 series, this game had very high expectations, that I, personally, thought it would have lived up 
 to. However, upon playin the game, i couldnt quite get into the Saints Row groove . Being a very 
 avid gamer (especiallly in this genre) , Saints Row seemed to lack a certain flavor that i feel 
 GTA captures very well. I didnt really feel what other gamers had felt towards the game. Creating 
 your own character is a plus, though my character looks like Sloth from the Goonies, but the overall 
 gameplay wasnt at all what i expected. Being a GTA player, the confusing controller layout took 
 a while to get used to. It took me about 5 deaths to figure out how to fight effectively. Definite 
 con. Also, the fact that cars drive away before i can get the ooportunity to steal them (even with 
 objects in the way) irritates me... a lot. The graphics are a bit shoddy too. Overall, saints Row 
 didnt really live it to its hype in my perspective, but it is still an enjoyable. im going to continue 
 playing it... until the new GTA comes out.... which i hope is sooner than they say.
  
  THE END
  SEACREST OUT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinxSTL
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 13, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I become skepitcal when I hear about games like Saints Row. Why?
  
  ... because a of times it ends up being a bad GTA Clone. However, this game has a style of it's 
 own. As well as big-name actors for the voices of many of the lead characters. The game's GRAPHICS 
 pretty good. Facial expressions as well as features help the game graphics-wise a lot. Many games 
 like this have HORRIBLE face graphics. The cars look pretty nice, too... Oh yeah, and you gotta 
 love RAGDOLL PHYSICS!!! The GAMEPLAY takes a little getting use to, but it becomes easy in a short 
 while. Actually, the only thing that messes me up on occasion is the vehicle controls. You can 
 change the controls, but no matter what scheme you use it'll take about an hour to get use to driving 
 &amp; shooting.
  
  The VOICE ACTING is VERY WELL-DONE as far as I'm concerned. What's to expect with actors like Keith 
 David, Michael Clarke Duncan, Daniel Dae Kim and Michael Rapaport? GREAT VOICES for the game. These 
 voices even include David Carradine and Mila Kunis. The SOUNDTRACK is okay, I guess. I'm not gonna 
 voice much of an opinion on this topic b/c I mostly just listen to my own music. However the few 
 tracks I heard when I played through the first mission were kind of old.
  
  All-in-All, it's definately worth picking up. The actors make the story believable, and you can 
 spend hours jst driving around messing with people.
  
  -JiNX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonghost
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game i was curious to see how it would turn out like if it was a good story 
 line or it just didnt make sense at all. This is probally one of the best 360 games i think you 
 could get right now only because of the limitless things you can do in this game. For instance 
 if you were bored of all the story lines you could do activities which are fun to do but after 
 awhile get boring. Or if your just plain bored with all the missions and actitvites you can just 
 go around town doing whatever you want seeing its so fun. The map isnt that big i think it could 
 of been alittle bigger but i still think its good. Some really good things about this game is the 
 cuztimization for the characters and all the things you can cuztimize in this game is limitess 
 and it overall is just a fun game that really doesnt get boring alot. The only problems with this 
 game is 1 it is way to glitchy i mean if you drive a car the next thing u know is the car in front 
 of u dissapears. Which shows you its rlly glitchy also the multiplayer isnt what u call fun. Its 
 even worse as in terms of being glitchy and it rlly doesnt have much to do. So i would think this 
 is a game you would suggest getting but if your getting it for multiplayer i rlly wouldnt suggest 
 you getting it only becaus offline is way better and has more stuff to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGetaway
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  i think that the developers of Saints Row should of spent a little more time on the game. Instead 
 of just trying to copy GTA they should of looked at alot of other games. i mean ill break it all 
 down.....
  
  Music: Music was flat as can be i mean theres probably only 1 song in the whole thing that i liked 
 and even that was a little flat. i mean what happened to getting some real music that will fit 
 the game. they said they asked how gangbangers talk and how they dress, right? well i guess they 
 forgot the music GAY!
  
  Gameplay: I thought this game was TIGHT.. BUT... BUT it lacked !!! ALOT!!! of features that was important... 
 i mean you could of had some places to go to to do something... (strip club, bar, etc....) Also 
 the lack of vehicals was amazing... no planes, no frickin motorbikes.. Graphics: i was a little 
 impressed with the graphics wit the new gen and all but still could of been better
  
  Overall: Overall if SR Developers want to make another SR then i think they need to do a little 
 more search into more games not just gta and if your going to beat gta you have to put the right 
 things into the game lack of cars, features and activities is just putting the flame out completly 
 and now its frickin cold... i mean if you really get you kicks out of killing and stuff this game 
 is da shi* game but if your looking for fun between still get it. I recommend renting this game..... Im 
 going eazy on you since you tryin new shi*
  
  P. S. .... ya too much cussin.. chill out.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langhorne13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Saints row has been wrongly labelled by many people as a GTA rip off. I will admit that this game 
 is incredibly similar to GTA. Its set in a sprawling metropolis, you can kill anybody you see, 
 nick any car that you see and do anything else illegal and pleasing without any real consequences, 
 and of course that is what makes GTA and Saints Row so much fun to play. So although the basics 
 of the genre are identical in both games, they are still different, they have there own pros and 
 cons, different side missions, different cities, and different game play. Im gonna start off on 
 the similarities to GTA and how well they are pulled off. GTA is obviously a bench mark for this 
 genre of gaming and more or less every clone or copy, from the Godfather to True Crime, has 
 failed to do what GTA does so well. Well Im happy to say that we have a clone of the GTA format 
 that has pulled off the things that the other games screwed up on. The car designs in Saints Row 
 are top notch and superior to those in GTA; the sports cars look slick as hell and the old beaters 
 look just as they should, as do the people carriers and just about any other vehicle youll see 
 on the road, there are really cool cars in this game. The city design is brilliant with a maze 
 of back alleys and shortcuts, and a really good feel to both the slummy parts and the uptown districts, 
 the detail really gets across the mood of the part of town that youre in. The music in Saints 
 Row is most definitely inferior to what you find in GTA, clearly the developers were looking to 
 save money in this area as there are no big name bands or songs in the line up for the radio stations, 
 however the variety is as good as ever and the talk show is also hilarious. The humour in Saints 
 Row occasionally feels forced but there are times when the scriptures hit the nail on the head 
 and make you laugh out loud at either the talk show or the cut-scenes. Speaking of which the cut 
 scenes are also brilliant, coupled with good voice talent and brilliant scripting, they really 
 help move the story along. The story itself is another high point, while involving and a little 
 dark, it is very careful not to take itself too seriously and the tongue in cheek humour really 
 lightens the feel of the game. The mayhem is brilliant, with car explosions sending, bonnets, bumpers, 
 hoods, doors and homies, plus just about anything else you can attach to a car flying right at 
 you, the weapons also feel suitably powerful and are fun to use. The aiming system is manual, and 
 if at first a little unusual in this kind of game, ends up making the GTA lock on system feel crummy 
 and outdated. The differences however are what make Saints row a great game. The graphics are good, 
 I know its a next gen system but they are still good as compared to any other freeromer out there, 
 I doubt that will last but for now the game is top of its genre as far as graphics are concerned 
 by a long shot. The side missions in Saints Row are a refreshing change to the somewhat dull taxi 
 and ambulance missions you got in GTA. The racing, drug trafficking and hijacking side missions 
 are the usual affair, and although they are done better than GTA, they are still run of the mill 
 and not doing anything incredibly different. However there are a few missions which undoubtedly 
 set the game apart from GTA and the developers are probably kicking themselves for having not thought 
 of them first, to stat off with there is the insurance fraud missions, where you throw yourself 
 in front of cars and watch the cash rack up as you fly through the air, this also makes very good 
 use of the entertaining rag doll physics. Then theres the hit man missions, which are the equivalent 
 of the chop shop missions only instead of jacking a car you kill a particular person with a particular 
 weapon, as you venture through out the world you might happen to see this person or you can actively 
 go looking for them. The next type of mission is the mayhem mission where you get some guns and 
 cause a certain amount of damage in a certain area before the time runs out, and these missions 
 are absolutely awesome fun and will keep you entertained for a good while. The rewards at the ends 
 of these missions also make doing them worthwhile as well as fun. And to top it all off there is 
 a brilliant customisation system for cars in the game, you can make pretty much every car in the 
 game a cool ride and because you store over 100 cars in your garage at any one time, you are able 
 to build up a collection of slick, fast and good looking cars. Speaking of vehicles cars are the 
 only type of vehicle you will find in the game, although this didnt really put me off as I saw 
 little point for a plane or a boat, a chopper might have been useful and the lack of motorbikes 
 might annoy some people as it would have been an easy addition to add to the game. Saints Row is 
 a fantastic game and worthy competition to the iconic series of grand theft auto. Even though Saints 
 Row would not exist had it not been for GTA, it is superior in so many ways that GTA needs to watch 
 its back and step up its game if its to stay ahead of the competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stixes14
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  The single player is very awesome in some ways that its better than the godfather and GTA. But 
 the online is cool too but its that stupid mode
  protect da pimp that is dumb and funny but still good game and some mission are funny, fun, and 
 crazy as hell. This game would be a HELL OF A GREAT GAME but they need to do some stuff like from 
 the godfather like push them down then shoot them in the head. The WHOES!!!! lol those are good 
 funny missions what you have to do with them but as all of the gameplay i think its a good so my 
 score is...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keith4RFC17
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  Their is a reason why i think Saint Row isnt better than the most recent GTA: San Andreas the main 
 reason would be if you looked at the kind of things you could do in GTA: SA for example you could 
 Fly  vehicles (Tank, 2 diff kind of helicopters) , and boats now 
 thats alot to keep you entertained with Saint Rows you can em let me try to make it bigger you 
 can Walk (wow) Run (can you believe it) and drive lots of cars which dont feel like they should when 
 you drive a mini into a big truck the sad bit is that the mini can actually push the big truck 
 theirs just no way would that happen hell its not even funny.
  The next thing i look at is the aiming system ive said this since the demo was released its not 
 real and i hope they replace it with something better obviously they were too lazy to do that and 
 thought it was good GTA aiming system wasnt amazing but the guns felt good when you were using 
 them the sound of them the recoil was all in some way real.
  Okay thats my rant done one final thing im not saying SR is a bad game im just saying its not better 
 than GTA, SR is worth getting but id recommend for most people just renting it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwaldron2306
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  I was never a HUGE gta fan, but I played the demo and decided to pick this one up. Although it 
 is a BLATANT RIPOFF of gta, it could not have been done much better. The graphics look awesome, 
 and the soundtrack is bangin'!! I only wish there was a bigger selection of vehicles (i. e. motorcycles, 
 planes, boats, and everything else San andreas had) but the cars and trucks you can choose from are 
 really well done. They all drive differently and are very detailed! The missions are cool and none 
 are too tediously hard. On top of the missions there are tons of activities to keep you busy for 
 several hours. Overall this game kicks ass an I definatley reccommend it, and can't wait for part 
 2!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kratos419
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  In Saint's Row you create your own character and use him/her to play through the game. I personally 
 find this to be a huge selling point for the game. It is far superior to GTA and I will tell you 
 why........ right now. For starters, it has a much better control scheme in that you get to aim 
 your weapon all the time rather than locking on. For some this may be a daunting task, but locking 
 is far too simplistic and easy for me. Another strongpoint is that it is far longer than any GTA 
 game to date. Anyone else get sick of GTA games within a month of purchase? Not only is it longer 
 but is far more captivating along the way. The gang dynamic is far more impressive in Saint's Row 
 than GTA: San Anderas in my opinion. Your homies are far more helpful and can be make or break 
 on a difficult mission. One of my few complaints is that the whole Hide and Seek items dynamic 
 is present in Saint's Row. Just like the hidden packages idea was horrible, so are the CD and tagging 
 ideas. This is definetly a waste of time in my opinion, but decide for yourself. I, as well of 
 tons of other people in the forums, have had some freezing issues at times where my car dissapears 
 and I cannot move. These issues ceased once I added the intercooler to my 360, which is also a 
 must buy for all 360 owners. Overall I love this game and have had numerous hours of fun with it. 
 I would definetly call this a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_killuh
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 12, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is an awesome game. Let me start out with that. The gameplay is great, the customizing 
 is great, the missions are unbeleiveable! Pretty hard at times too. Graphics are pretty darn good 
 in-game, even better with the scene clips. As far as the bad goes... FPS suffered AT TIMES (not 
 all the time) . Glicthes at times when driving your car will just disappear and your sitting in 
 the driver position in mid air, you cannot do anything at this point. I've also been running down 
 the street and you just fall right into the ground stuck there. Online is definetley laggy. Awesome 
 @ times, but laggy alot. I would like to know where these servers are located. Otherwise, awesome 
 game, would definetely recommend to someone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Prey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 12, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is the best game to come out this year so far! The gameplay in both single and mulitplayer 
 is rock solid! The single player storyline is great except the ending, i was shocked!!! The Graphics 
 in the game is great, the damage on cars is realistic and the physics are great!! The Sound is 
 great, they did a good job of using well known actors to do voice overs. The Muiltplayer is ok, 
 but the game laggs too much at certain modes. So, ya i recommend buying this game for those who 
 like games that have a free-roam gameplay like Gta and this is alot better then Gta!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: annualmadman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 11, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Great Guns Great Bangs Graet blowing the S**t out of your any one you don't like
  Do I have to say anymore
  
  The is so much to do in the game, you can do anyhting you such 
 as hold up shops, Street race, to blow the town to tiny little bits an dit dose not get repetative. 
 My favorite part is get your police nortority up so you get to Kill countless SWAT, FBI and shoot 
 down police helicopters but just don't get Killed so Great Guns Great Bangs Graet blowing the S**t 
 out of your any one you don't like
  Do I have to say anymore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raijin78
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 10, 2006 5:38 pm PT
Review:  A great game. It is definitely a sufficient substitution for the lack of a GTA game on the XBOX360 
 platform. Some new additions make it slightly better than GTA but the lack of originality in general 
 is rather disappointing. The multi-player component of the game is also sub-par due to the inability 
 to roam the city driving vehicles and experiencing the vastness of the metropolis. The story-line 
 however, is engaging with great voice acting by familiar actors. One of the better features is 
 the ability to customize your character, clothing, and cars too. it is definitely worth buying 
 and enjoying for the pure fun of the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odamkevin
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  As I'm 100% sure that you've heard, this game is a rip-off of GTA, plain and simple. Online is 
 bad, and needs alot of work. If you liked GTA games in the past, there's really nothing different 
 here. It's a very interesting storyline and the gameplay is solid. The graphics are just plain 
 amazing and there are countless great moments on this game. I would say that any mature enough 
 person that doesn't mind alot of adult content should give this a try because it is really fun, 
 but doesn't leave to far from home in the sense of copying GTA. This should provide countless hours 
 of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javajoe96work
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  I have never really been a big fan of Grand Theft Auto series. The first time I played it was before 
 it was big when it was on the computer. It was a somewhat fun games but I never felt the motivation 
 to do the missions and stuff and my interest would wan and I would stop playing. This has been 
 following me every sequel since. But for some reason Saints Row is different for me. Maybe it is 
 the Multiplayer it throws into the mix, or the buddies you can recruit to come over and help you 
 stir up mischief. The rag doll physics of being able to actually hit people is a game all by itself. 
 I just feel more immersed into this game. If you have played GTA, you know basically how this game 
 works. It is a blatant copy of that game but the added touches make it enjoyable and worthwhile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalkanor1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good game, with an obvious comparison to Grand Theft Auto. The graphics to the game 
 are quite good, but what do you expect from the Xbox! The fact that you can edit your character 
 at any point of the game is kinda cool. The game could, if continued, be better than GTA, BUT at 
 the moment, it has some work to do to catch up. The game could make the main character actually 
 talk..... that would be nice. An interactive conversation would be better! Some missions have a 
 bit more difficulty than should be, but the overall mission difficulty is pretty good. This game 
 has lots of action and violence, and is definately not the type of game that young children should 
 be playing, just like GTA.
  This game suprised me at how fun and addicting it was, but i have a feeling that it will end exactly 
 like GTA; fun but once beaten, gets old. Overall, this is a very good game, and the graphics make 
 it so much better when blowing stuff up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpc2006
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Saints Row I was very sceptical about it, because every other game that 
 tried to be like GTA sucked. Saints Row does a lot of things right like giving you a large open 
 environment to play around in that is actually fun compared to other GTA rip off's. The frame rate 
 is very good BUT there are a lot of bugs like cars just disappearing right in front of you. I am 
 still wondering why there are no planes, helicopters, boats, or motorcycles in Saints Row........ I 
 mean why make a GTA clone and not put any of them in it; they are some of the things that make 
 these types of game that much more fun. (Hopefully there will be downloads for them on Xbox Live 
 marketplace soon.) Another problem with the game is that other than the single player part being 
 so buggy the multiplayer is even worse. The lagging is terrible and makes it very frustrating and 
 hard to get kills. After all these problems are fixed..... I hope..... after the upcoming patch is 
 released, I would like to see a new multiplayer mode that lets you and some friends just rome freely 
 around the City of Stilwater kind of like the multiplayer in GTA: Liberty City Stories on the PSP. 
 Even though there are a lot of problems with Saints Row, I really enjoyed it and I think it is 
 worth picking up........ Until GTA 4 comes  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyTriumph
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Saints Row certainly holds up to it's claims. When it comes to graphics they're VERY crisp and 
 with a high definition TV explosions, cars, and even characters animations are NICE. However, the 
 lack of some small things, (lack of bloodblood and bullet holes with certains guns specifically) 
 does subtract from the realism that things such as clothing and cars produce.
  
  In terms of sound, the game delivers the usual sounds you'd expect, great voice acting, realistic 
 bullet sounds, richochets, and car engine revs. The voice acting and writing deserves a salute, 
 the game produces cheaps laughs too, such as the main fast-food chain's slogan, You can't beat 
 our meat. Unlike it's GTA brother, peoples mouths ACTUALLY MOVE when they talk as well. In terms 
 of radio stations, they're GREAT! A+ there is something for everyone! trance, rock, techno, rap, 
 new-age, metal, it's ALL here, even corny polka!, let's see GTA do that! You can also customize 
 a track list, and who doesn't want to waste drug lords while blasting their favorite beats?
  
  In terms of replay value, and initial play time there is ALOT here 50-150 hours worth, there 
 is just SO much to do. Sadly, the missions are serperated by tedious amounts of Reputations Increasing 
 Mini-Games these tedious games are fun at first, but get boring and repetetive quickly.
  
  The clothing options are a virtual plethera of gangsta endownment and rockin' clothing, from pimp 
 coats, to basket ball jerseys, to yakuza-style shades this game has a persona for everyone, whether 
 you're a gangsta rapper or a high-business white-collar crime lord.
  
  What's nice also, however are the options you get while customizing a car and the choice of cars 
 themselves. BUT you ONLY get cars, no planes, motorcycles, boats, or anything else.
  
  Online play is fun, however it feels like it was rushed into the game due to boring levels and 
 essentially only 3 game types, also the lag is AWFUL they say they're going to release a patch, 
 but that won't happen.
  
  Too sum it all up.
  The good: Nice graphics, great sound, good humor and story.
  The bad: Boring on-line mode, HORRID 
 lag, and it needed more vehicle variety.
  
  It lost a point to lag alone, had there been no lag it would have gotten a 9.6, well done Voltion 
 Inc! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulldog7
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  Yes, it's another GTA ripoff, but not quite the same as all the other ones. Saint's Row is actually 
 pretty darn good. And in some areas, it's actually better than GTA games.
  
  Gameplay: Quite good, the missions are not as varied as GTA, but I think they are not as trial 
 and error as GTA is either, so that's a good thing. And I didn't notice any ridiculously hard missions 
 that had me frustrated beyond belief like GTA sometimes had. The weapons are well done, though 
 i would have liked a bit more variety and a slightly more complicated fighting system, but overall 
 it's good. I'd say the biggest problem is that the feel of the game is, well, soul-less. The city 
 doesn't seem to really be alive. There's something hallow about the city, something mechanical 
 about the feel of the gameplay, and it reminds me that i'm playing a game. The side missions are 
 pretty cool and varied. Quite well done.
  
  Graphics: pretty good i think. Not amazing, but I was rather impressed with what was there. The 
 explosion effects are excellent
  
  sound: actually pretty annoying at times. Some decent voice acting, also some terrible voice acting/scripting. 
 It's decent enough, though the radio stations do not compare to GTA games. GTA does it sooo much 
 better.
  
  Value: There's quite a bit to do here in this game. I think it's well worth the price of purchase 
 on the value end. ON the other hand, if you're not really all that concerned with completing every 
 single little thing, rent the game, don't buy it, because you can beat this main storyline in the 
 game in a week no problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cboz_34
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 9, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Yeah this game is very fun to play because you can go around with the freedom to do pretty much 
 anything you would like. Being able to pimp out your cars is an owesome feature it makes the game 
 just that much more fun to play. I love the way if you hit an oncoming car at a high speed the 
 person in that car will come flying through the windsheild. The only major thing that i wish you 
 could of done was to chose the gang you became a part of. Oh yeah!!! dont even get me started the 
 feature to were you can hold up store employees that is a great feature and a great way to earn 
 money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattLTJ18
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 9, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is what it is, a Grand Theft Auto Clone. For GTA fanboys like myself, it's the perfect 
 fix for the dry season in between GTA4. It has it's good points, many of which it shares with GTA. 
 The character customization is great, the GPS is great, and the storyline, while not very compelling, 
 is slightly entertaining. Saint's Rows only weakspots are in it's lack of length, the game can 
 be beaten fairly quickly, if one does not stop to do all the challenges, which is a very rewarding 
 endeavor. The online game is extremely broken with intolerable amounts of lag and glitching, hopefully 
 it will be fixed via a patch making for a solid pick-up and play thoughtless online experience 
 lacking much more strategy than shoot at the badguy hey, sometimes that is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 9, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  One of the first things you're gonna notice in this game from the very get go is the voice acting. 
 With high paid actors coming in to do some of these voice jobs the cutscenes are always fun and 
 enjoyable to watch and help push along the story line which actually surprised me with being pretty 
 good. Graphics also shined well in this game, expecially with the explosions that rock the screen 
 as a car erupts and flips through the air. The city is well detailed, and I know this isn't related 
 graphically, but there are no loading times! I mean, there is like a half a second pause when you 
 begin an activity, but it doesn't have to load as you enter a building or anything like that. It 
 gives the game a great smooth feeling and is possible because of the Xbox360's next gen power. 
 Weather effects are also done nicely but some things that I wish they could have added were puddles 
 forming when it rained or a slight pitter patter of the rain drops hitting on your car which was 
 in GTA, and for me those little things really make a difference in todays videogames. Nice weapon 
 selection really helps this game and what I love the most is that you don't lose your guns when 
 you get busted or die like in the GTA series, it's like they wanted you to cheat in that game because 
 it was so hard to get more than a pistol. One thing that bugged me about this game however was 
 that you can tell the just left out motorcycles, helicopters, etc because they wanted a little 
 more in Saints Row 2. It's okay though because the available selection of cars is still pretty 
 good and the eighteen wheelers on the highway are always fun to jump into a smash up other cars 
 with, especially the ones carrying oil as they explode quite nicely : ) What I think sets this 
 game apart from GTA is all the extra stuff you can do, diving in front of cars for the Insurance 
 Fraud activity to protecting some of your gang carry out a drug deal is never boring and the rewards 
 for completing all levels of a certian activity are really good, for example the platinum GDHC 
 .50 is flat out amazing. There is also the Pimpcane shotgun which is always entertaining :P I also 
 love the customization that you can have in this game, buying clothes and upping the amount of 
 bling you can drop onto your character is always pretty fun. Also being able to customize your 
 cars with nitrous, hydraulics, and of course all the sporty rims, tires, hoods, spoilers, body 
 kits, paint jobs etc is fun to mess around with. Overall I really reccommend this game to just 
 about anybody as it is highly entertaining and will keep you entertained for a loong time.
  
  P. S- Multiplayer was not included in this review as I have not yet tried it but it looks pretty 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zdmetal
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 9, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game for anyone who is a fan of GTA style games. The story is a little weird 
 at the start bet it gets more normal as you progress. The weapon selection is awesome especially 
 the RPG. The side missions are way more fun than the actual main storyline itself I think. The 
 stores are pretty cool because for one you can improve your charachter and there are two things 
 to break into to steal money the cash register and the safe whivh is really cool. And I personally 
 love the car customization shop because I love to pimp out cars even though its kind of pointless 
 on this game its still very fun. And for all you drugees there is a liquor and drug store where 
 you canbuy drugs and get high/drunk. So overall this game is very good so go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coderedfilm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  GTA clones? There have been many. And up untill this point, none could stand on their own. The 
 laundry list of crappy clones includes, True Crime, Getaway, among others. And then, there is saints 
 row. The Row answers all those why dosnt this game have... questions. Like why cant my character 
 use his cell phone that he is constantly geting calls on?, or when im I going to be able to take 
 my gang bangin online? Wile this certanly is no GTA, Its seems as the wait for GTA IV for 360 owners 
 has become a little easyer. With the combanation of top notch graphics, great voice acting, and 
 awsome controll, this game sets itself out, among a genre of low quallity games. If your a fan 
 of open ended game play, or gang violence, this is the game you should be playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwoot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 8, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  To start with I have to say that I think this genre of game is pretty much done as much innovative 
 stuff as can be expected. GTA III and its sequels are the paradigm all others games hope to live 
 up to so I am not going to say this is a revolutionary game in any way. In fact the only reason 
 I play this game instead of putting in San Andreas is the updated graphics and the sharp presentation.
 
  
  Over all the game is solid. The voice acting is good while the story is as ridiculous as all the 
 stories in these type of games tend to be. It is good enough to move the game along but nothing 
 you haven't seen in the lame action movies that Hollywood force feeds us. The city layout is pretty 
 good and I like the fact you can go anywhere right from the get go. I really wish you could use 
 vehicles other than cars. GTA has spoiled us with helicopters, planes, bikes and best of all motorcycles. 
 The controls are pretty tight and I actually do like that you have to aim rather than having an 
 auto aim but I do wish you could go first person and aim over the sights for longer range shots.
 
  
  Overall this game is nothing new but it is a great game to play through and enjoy. I would recommend 
 a rental at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cross08
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, Im was saying it was such a rip off of GTA: San Andreas. But I 
 waited a while, traded in 3 games for it, and Im totally speachless. The game takes all of the 
 good moments from San Andreas and makes it even better. I have only had the game for 3 days, and 
 I have completed 20% of the game, almost completing the LC missions. Even tho it does miss on some 
 of the things from San Andreas, like bike riding, the gym and driving planes and boats, its still 
 fun.
  
  Pros: Amazing Gameplay, Addictive, Customization Is Awsome, Modding Any Car Is Awsome.
  
  Cons: 
 No Boats, No Planes, No Motorcycles, No Bikes, Not Alot Of Variety For Weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 44504
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot better than GTA. Maybe only because better graphics and advanced programming 
 but still better. Trying to get to 100 words isnt cool guys. Can you please make it shorter limits?
 
  blah blah blah blah wow wow wow wow wow please end this jesus come on... blah blah blah blah blahWhen 
 writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We 
 encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, 
 but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you 
 to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  So Saints Row came out during a bad time and what turned out to be the perfect time for me. Because 
 this was the time when all of the hype I had was going to Dead Rising I was one of those people 
 bashing on SR and calling it a GTA rip-off. Of course I know far better now.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  What can I say here that hasn't been said? Not to much really, basically everything 
 you have seen from GTA with a few new ideas like robbing stores, spray painting, hostage situations 
 and a bunch of new mini-games based on what GTA offers you but far more interesting. Not only is 
 the story in SR interesting, the cut scenes nice, but what really takes the cake are the mini-games. 
 In GTA they were a problem never fun and mostly just annoying and thrown in to make the game longer. 
 Here however they are far more entertaining, things like insurance fraud, demolition derby, racing, 
 mayhem and various things that people want to do in a game and get rewarded.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Of course the game looks great, the cut scenes are nice and explosions are fantasic 
 of course there are better games out there right now. But still for a first try they definitely 
 made a valiant effort.
  
  Sound:
  
  Wow! This is usally a downside to me even in games that do it well but not here, they offer you 
 a huge selection of music to listen to in cars, not only that but actually entertaining commericals 
 (though they can get annoying after a while) but they offer a new feature like a walk man where 
 you can go to certain stores around town and by music to listen to when not in cars at all.
  
  Value:
  
  Probably the best feature in the game is its value, considering you want to play 
 through a game more then once or go online and rough it out for a while. Because online is never 
 a big thing for me in any game I won't go into detail here but suffice to say it's a really nice 
 touch for someone who didn't even care about the online from the start.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game surpassed COD2 for my favorite 360 game to date because of its fun gameplay, interesting 
 story, graphics, weapon variety, and overall length. I can spend an hour a day even after I have 
 completed the story working towards 100% or just messing around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwner-peters
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Saints row u either love it or you hate it. a game of skill, timing and most importantly fast broadband 
 connection. as it would seem that lag is the best wepaon in this game, no matter how good you are, 
 no mattter how hard and swift your ak-47 is you are always sesceptible to being shot from no where. 
 apart from the connection problems there is a good game with original ideas and with imagination 
 seeping out of it. overall it would be a great game if it didnt lag as much. so if you are looking 
 for a good game and basicaally a bit of filler until gta 4 comes out saints row is for you. if 
 however you have a bad broadband connection for everyones sake stay away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarltonWolf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 7, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  I have purchased, played, and beaten all of the GTA series. I am a true GTA fan. Reading all the 
 boards and website reviews before this game came out I could not understand why everyone was slamming 
 Saint's Row. Everyone saying, They are just copying GTA, Volition can't come up with their own 
 original. I say Thank Goodness someone put out another game similar to GTA. If you are a true fan 
 of the GTA series then you will love Saint's Row. The graphics are good and the audio and song 
 package is awesome. There are some glitches in the game and I personally never had the game freeze 
 up on me until I was hours into it playing a Mayhem level that had a bunch of explosions on the 
 screen at once. I replayed and it did not do the same thing and it worked fine. I have played a 
 few live games and it does lag (sometimes badly) . Volition will surely correct those problems in 
 the near future and on Saint's Row II. You can drive the whole city without seeing one load screen. 
 I also like the fact that you regenerate your health automatically. The fact of the matter is I 
 am glad someone has finally put another game out there that is played like one of the greatest 
 series of all time. Come on game developers bring on the free roam games. That gives gamers (you 
 and me) the benefit of more options and game playing time. GTA vs. Saint's Row? Who cares..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tato999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  SAINT ROWS
  
  Sint rows is like grand theif auto but a way better version the cars are faster more smoth, the 
 girls are hot (for a game vesion) the streets are amazing lets talk about the cars. in any other 
 ganster game the cars are just in and out and wen yo rive u don't no how fast u are going plus 
 the graths are mad. in the mission you can race, drag etc it can let you do as much racing you 
 want. and now there are the clothes the are sweet for example if ur in a car and hear the a sale 
 go on its really happing
  wen u play online you can make your own gang just make up a name and get some cool clothers
  
 
  this has been my review about SAINT ROWS
  
  and i give it a 9.5 superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NicG360
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I loved the game, loved the weapons, nothing like GTA like i expected. The Explosions were nice. 
 and the new homes you get were breathtaking had a hard time talking to my girlfriend wile play. 
 it was just to distracting. so guys home alone here is your game. guys with a girl. make your chose. 
 However I did like the xbox live. It made me whant to go back to DDRs online play. Did not like 
 the music but I hate rap and the who getto thing. I know that sounds weird but like I sayed im 
 in it for the explosions. If you saw my character in the game you would not even thank hes getto. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arch_Angel_21
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 6, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  In my eyes, this game is like a Grand Theft Auto that has been improved in all area's.
  
  - You can customize your character before gameplay, however its hard to change his appearance enough 
 for him to look different from the default template without making your character look stupid. 
 -You can buy clothing of all kinds for your character and wear them how you wish. -There are a 
 great number of extra activities to choose from, ones that are easy, frustrating or just plain 
 fun. -You can customize cars with Nitrous, Hydraulics, bodykits etc. -The gameplay is very easy 
 to grasp, the story is great, the gang missions are good fun and the cut-scenes are always fun 
 to watch.
  
  My only real criticism is probably the graphics. Im certainly not saying that the graphics are 
 bad, far from it. They are very good, however I found them a little disappointing for an Xbox 360 
 game as i do not think these are up to par with the next-gen graphics.
  
  Overall I would highly recommend this game to anybody who was interested in shoot em ups, action/adventure. 
 My friend bought this game and I loved it so much that instead of borrowing his, I went out and 
 bought a copy of my own the next day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newyork_graffit
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 6, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row is an Xbox 360 game from Volition and THQ who also made the Punisher video game that 
 came out last year. When Saint's Row was first announced last year, mst people assumed that it 
 was going to be a Grand Theft Auto ripoff. Well, they were right. Althought it is a GTA clone, 
 it takes all of what was great about GTA and fixed it's flaws, therefore making it a better game 
 than GTA.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  The gameplay is one of the games two high points. The gameplay is amazing. There are four storylines 
 in which you take down 3 rival gangs like the Vice Kings, the corporate gang, The Westside Rollerz, 
 the rich-kid-from the Suburbs-gang, and Los Carnales, the Spanish gang. Then there is another storyline 
 and another gang called the 3rd Street Saints which is the gang that your character is in. Then 
 there are the activities. There are many to choose from including, Drug Trafficing, Hijacking, 
 Racking, and my personel favorite, Insurance Fraud. There are all really fun and really cool. Graphics: 
 9
  
  The graphics in Saint's Row look really good but there are problems. All player models and stuff 
 looks good. The cars look good but they seem to just appear out of nowhere. The city is reall in 
 depth and looks good. The graphics do seem to chop and clip every once in a while.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  The sound in Saint's Row is the other high point. There are numerous well-known 
 actors and actresses doing the characters voices. There is Michael Clark Duncan (The Green Mile, 
 The Scopian King) , Mila Kunis (Family Guy, That 70's Show) , Danial Dae Kim (Lost) , and my favorite 
 Michael Rapaport (The War At Home, Chapplle's Show) . Also the radio stations are fantastic. All 
 the songs are pretty good and the the talk shows are really funny.
  
  Overall, yes, the game Saint's Row is a GTA ripoff, but it is much better than the actual GTA game. 
 It takes everything that made GTA great, made that better, and then they took all of GTA's flaws 
 and fixed those up. I would highly reccomend this game to any action game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leewizza
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 5, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  If Saints Row is going to be called a GTA rip-off , then at least it's as good as GTA is/was. Althought 
 a bit cartoony at times, it is nothing but heaps of fun.
  I really like the fact that it isn't as easy in this game to get the police after you and you can 
 literally mow down pedestrians by the bus load before you are in a cop chase, giving you a big 
 chance to do stacks of damage.
  While doing damage is fun at times, its good to know that the many different story lines are still 
 there for those who like to follow a game through to the end.
  I have been playing this game for about a month now and am still not bored.
  Reccommended to 
 any and all (over 15yrs) , it's a truly great game that wont disappoint.
  
  - Wizz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UNREAL_IRLman22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2006 8:40 pm PT
Review:  The Concept: Okay, first off I would like to tell GTA and everybody at Rockstar to watch out. Now 
 don't get me wrong I am a HUGE GTA fan, and that's the main reason I picked this up. There has 
 always been and always will be cheap imitations of the wonderful GTA franchise, so when I first 
 saw this, i was like Oh my god, copycats! But as I saw the videos and especially after I played 
 the demo, I was thrilled. This IS the first great game that took a piece off the cake that is GTA. 
 I mean games like True Crime: Streets of LA, at first I thought they would be a nice competition 
 with GTA, but nooo it turned out to be one of my most hated games. The boys at Violation and THQ 
 have my hand in the air for support!
  
  The Game: Shooting, robbing, killing, these are just a few of the things that the guys at Rockstar 
 gave us with GTA, and they did it very well without competition..... well, not anymore. SR gives 
 us all that shooting killing stuff we love, but does it SOO nicely. For example: in GTA everyone 
 loved running over pedestrians, who dont? But in GTA they just got hit and fell on the ground 
 and that's it, it gets tired VERY quickly. But if you want to hit peds in SR, ooo is it fun. Not 
 only do they give a satisfying THUD when you hit them, one word. RAG DOLL well thats two words. 
 The rag doll physics make the poor little people fly in the air like a Russian gymnast, limbs flailing, 
 soaring high into the air, and once your done watching that guy hit the ground, what do you do? 
 You hit another one! Over and over until you get bored, but wait, you dont, its so much fun sidewalk 
 surfing as I call in that you do it until you die (at least thats how much fun I have with it) . 
 That aside, there are many more things that SR does better than GTA in my opinion. First of all, 
 we have activities. From mayhem to hijacking, to insurance fraud and drug trafficking, each fun 
 in their own ways. And the whole thing with garages in GTA, forget putting one or two cars in, 
 or even more commonly trying to jam cars in their before the door closes. SR gives you the less 
 realistic, yet more susceptible in the gaming world by letting you store as many cars in your garage 
 as you want to and turns into a list when you get a car from the garage letting you pick and choose 
 which one you want. Another thing with the cars, in GTA you could customize a few cars, but nothing 
 very special. SR lets you customize just about ANY car you can fit into the shop and pimp it out 
 with things like rims, paint jobs, spinners, (did I mention you could pimp out a minivans?) Not 
 only can you dress up your car, but you can pick n choose what your guy wears as well, true it 
 may not seem very interesting or new but you could pull a Michael Jackson and go to the plastic 
 surgeons and change your whole body. Saints Row also gives you the ability to shoot out your car 
 where ever you want, not just left and right like in GTA. And theres no magnet targeting system 
 used in GTA, youre free to shoot wherever you want with any weapon you want. (theres much more, 
 but I am too tired to type it all or remember it)
  
  The Verdict: There so much you can do in this open world and many things that GTA has done and 
 put the very good icing on the cake. With graphics that push GTA face down in the dirt and spit 
 on it, and gameplay beyond the loved GTA franchise, this ususally overlooked game is phenomonal! 
 If youre bored of the same ol GTA, pick up Saints row and get sucked into the mayhem all over 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidKeevo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Oct 5, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I thought nothing of it. Great, another GTA rip-off I thought. 
 When I played the demo, it completely changed my mind, it was so much fun, and I played it alot. 
 Once I got the game however, my opinion changed again. This is just another bad attempt at a GTA 
 rip-off.
  
  Gameplay: Saints Row's singleplayer is very boring and repetative. Just because it has better graphics 
 and physics then GTA, it doesn't make the gameplay better. Mission objectives are repetative and 
 the little side missions you can do get boring really fast. Lack of motorcycles, planes, boats, 
 and helicopters really ruins it for me. The multiplayer of Saints Row is fun, but it is very obvious 
 that it is incomplete. Lag and lack of maps is the major things wrong with multiplayer. There is 
 a co-op but there are only 2 levels, which are very boring. The good things about its multiplayer 
 is that there is a ranking system and it's alot of fun to play.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for Saints Row aren't to bad, but it isn't the best game I've seen yet. 
 Textures and very small things have great detail. Water in the game looks great, but it's barely 
 used. Also this game has some of the best explosions I've ever seen.
  
  Sound: This game comes with the sound you would come to expect from any GTA game. The thing that 
 really shines in Saints Row is the voice actors. They are abolutly great. One thing that really 
 gets on my nerves though, is that in every sentence, there has to be a swear word. I swear myself, 
 but it's just to much.
  
  Value: Saints Row's replay value for singleplayer is really slim. The world is small and there 
 isn't much to do. Most of the value comes with the online, which they really need to fix and release 
 some new maps.
  
  There's my review on Saints Row, hope this helps you decide whether of not you will buy it. Remember, 
 this was my opinion, so don't go off and flame me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake11977
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 5, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, I finally got a chance to play this game, and all it did was make me thirst for GTA4 that 
 much more. Saint's Row had some really cool new ideas and some nice touches that I really liked. 
 One of the coolest things to me was that when you pick a fire fight with some gang members in the 
 street, gang members that were driving by would stop, get out, and take part in the volley. I also 
 love the idea that my character can drink or smoke and the screen becomes a little hazy, that was 
 a great idea. The game looks great and has a good story that keeps you interested. I can honestly 
 say the side missions are repetitive, a little easy, but still interesting and fun. The city of 
 Stillwater seemed, dare I say it, small. I had it memorized after about an hour or two of gameplay, 
 as opposed to San Andreas which took a while to get to know. The biggest disappointment to me with 
 Saint's Row is simple. NO BIKES, MOTORCYCLES, PLANES, OR BOATS! WTF? I always drive immediately 
 to the airport and look for something to fly. Imagine my surprise when I found the Stillwater airport 
 empty and devoid of life. I was confused. No planes, no people, what kind of airport is that anyway? 
 Even the GTA 3 had the dodo, Saint's Row has nada. And how do you make a city that's a frickin 
 island with no boats? That's just ludacris. It's a good thing they added a transport to shore feature 
 when you fall in the water because it would be a long swim. Not a bad game, just stick to the story 
 and you'll have a ball. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M00N-CAT
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is hands down the best video game for the 360. Dont get me wrong but Grand Theft Auto: 
 San Andreas lacked good graphics and playability but this game had all the stuff GTA San Andreas 
 didnt lets just say Saints Row comes the closest to all the GTA Rip Offs But seriously this 
 game is a prime example of what you can do with the xbox360 despite the leggy online plays and 
 glitches this game does pretty good.
  The controls are familiar with if you have played the Grand Theft Auto series.
  The graphics 
 what can I say everybody has there own opinion on how this game looks well heres mine I think 
 this game has reasonable graphics the suit the Xbox 360. But for some of you haters out there who 
 think these graphics blow well then just look at Carl jonnsons cupped hands isnt that a prize! 
 Well if you think this game is as good as GTA then you catch my drift so unfortunately I will have 
 to give this game a 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxsteven
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  This game will hold you over until Grand Theft Auto 4 come out for xbox 360 .
  The Graphies are really good and you get good mileage for the bucks when buy it .
  
  You can 
 create your own gang online The Respect Missions are interesting - insurance fraud ,protecting 
 a soccer mom, drug dealer, kidnapping and hitman jobs .
  Your character can change into different clothes, buy music ,rob people ,etc .
  Your can buddy 
 up to incease your success on missions. The map gives you a clear route to take when you click on 
 a desired destination There are some glitches in the driving but they are not frequent and it only 
 takes a couple of seconds to recover.
  Your lead character doesn't speak , which seems odd.
  You have to have a certain number of players 
 before you can play online.
  
  Overall , if you like GTA , this is another game for you ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  The game is a trip! You seem to join a gang who's out to dominate other gangs... Most of the time 
 I'm playing I try and not to have the sound up so loud due to the constant vulgar street cussing 
 in the game! When my son plays it I turn the audio off! I've played up to parts of the game where 
 you bust down a door and there's live sex going on so at times I have to be careful as to leave 
 the parental locks on when my kids play it... It seems these GTA type games are very popular for 
 it's interactive gameplay but at times I get weary that your out in the street just causing mayhem 
 even to innocent bystanders in the public... Fun is fun but what type of future are we setting 
 up for kids who are gaming without Parental guidance! The game graphics are nice - nothing to jump 
 head over heels over... If it wasn't for the cussing I'd give it a better rating in the audio area... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danhr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 4, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Despite it's many glitches, the game is very entertaining. Graphically, Saint's Row could have 
 delivered a lot better. But the core in this game is the gameplay. There are so many things to 
 do! Insurance Fraud, Hijacking, Pimping, drug dealing, and loads of more activities this game has 
 to offer. The customizable options are also great. There are incredibly many things to customize 
 your characters AND your car with. Mad fun.
  
  I still don't have as much fun with Saint's Row as I did with GTA 3 and GTA: Vice City back in 
 the days. It also suffers from a horrible frame rate. If you are stuck between 4 smoking cars or 
 you stand close to an explosion you are bound to lag.
  
  The story isn't very long, but there are still lots of things to do when you're done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garydbzfan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is great to any 1 that likes gta style games u can buy things in shops rob shops buy 
 burgers food u can basicly do anythign u would do in real life in this game and that makes it truly 
 amazing i reccomend this game highly you have gangs in the game that all hate eachother and you 
 have to gain the respect by completing missions and other small jobs to make cash so its a good 
 game and i reccomend this and this game is well better then gta san andreas by a mile but im not 
 sure if its bigger or not i think it is but even if it aint its still big enough lol its huge and 
 thanks for reading my review on swaints row for the xbox 360 .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apollo5000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is by all means a great game. Sadly though its always going to be living in the shadow 
 of the GTA series. Now this doesn't really have to be a bad thing, of all the games to be compared 
 to GTA must be a good one. There are strengths a weaknesses in both titles, but this being the 
 first of what i hope will be many Saints Row games I hope they both manage to do great things.
 
  
  - Gameplay -
  
  If you have played GTA before the Gameplay won't come as a shock, this practically makes it a pick 
 up and play game. The controls are very responsive and that makes it all the more fun. The Map 
 doesn't seem to be too big or too small either. Its a good enough size that travling from one end 
 to the other doesn't seem like it'll take forever. One of the things that GTA had which this doesn't 
 was other vehciles aside from cars. Like GTA they are probably holding stuff back for the inevitable 
 sequel but it wouldn't have hurt to put a bike in here or there. A nice addition this has is rag 
 doll physics which one of two of the Activities play with well.
  
  - Graphics -
  
  The City of Stilwater is truely a sight to behold. weither you are in the slums or the posh parts 
 of the town its always a great view and with the use of dynamic lighting it really makes the City 
 feel alive. Everything from the Sky to the crack in the tarmac seems like people spent a good while 
 working on it.
  
  - Story - The game has a very typical storyline for this genre. Your a new recruit to the Saints 
 Row Gang and you are going to help them take over the City of Stilwater by removing each gang from 
 the picture. But even this the most basic of Storylines has a lot of depth to it much of that due 
 to the superb casting. Every voice seems to fit there character perfectly and i can't think of 
 any other group of actors that would do that as much justice as they do.
  
  A good addition is the continuation of the storyline. After the end credits role there are a few 
 more missions that seem to open your eyes to a bigger picture.
  
  Overall the game is amazing, and i highly recommend picking it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erg_the_Noid
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I like Saint's Row. I played the demo, bought the game, finished the main missions, and I am still 
 playing various activities. However, the story doesn't really compel me to care about any of the 
 characters, or any type of plot development. There really isn't much of a story. Your playable 
 character just shows up one day out of nowhere, and starts doing what he's told. No history, no 
 motivation. From here on out, all the key missions just seem like run-of-the-mill street genre 
 fodder.
  There is no doubt that S. R. 'looks' better than any GTA game to date. A large area to explore, 
 and a lot of different character models for the general public. BUT,... all this prettiness is 
 just distracting enough to forget about the fact that you're just trying to finish the game to 
 unlock achievements, and move on to the next one you've been looking forward to. Me, personally, 
 I kinda got this game just because I've been jonesin' for a little GTA-style action. I must say, 
 though, that this little morsel fell way short of satisfying my appetite. Now, let's look at the 
 GTA menu...
  
  Say what you will, but the GTA games had great characters, a variety of creative missions, excellent 
 music, and a story that you would actualy care about. A large part of that connection is exposition. 
 Knowing where the character is coming from let's you, the player, look through his eyes to get 
 the story from that perspective. As 'neato' as all this next/current-gen char. customization is, 
 it doesn't make up for the fact that the char. needs some kind of background. It's stupid just 
 to make a char. that looks exactly like yourself, and just pretend that all of a sudden you, the 
 player, are that caharacter. I hope that more of these new games will have some time spent on plot 
 and character development. If videogames are to be seen as a true medium of narrative and ART , 
 then these points should be acknowledged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerMan93
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  SO MUCH FUN!!! I love Saints Row you can do what you want when you want I never played a game this 
 much fun I never get bored there can not be a game better then this. It is way then GTA or any 
 game I have played. Graphics are not the best but the gameplay makes up for it. But I wish you 
 could hijack an areplane thats the one thing that I do not like about the game that GTA has that 
 SR does not have. I hope they make a Saints Row #2 that would be so COOL!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeta_u
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, Saint's Row. It's a semi good game, nobody can honestly look you dead in the eye and say 
 That is an exact copy of GTA and it's not. However, if you're a dumb thing of crap like me, and 
 buy it only for the online play you will be disapointed. It just doesn't do it. First of all, the 
 online play isn't like, Phantasy Star Online, which I know I'm a dumb thing of crap, I thought 
 that was going to be how this game was. But besides that, the game has a terrible lag on it. But, 
 that should be fixed up soon.
  
  There are way too many homies on the online play for Saint's Row. And by Homie's I mean people 
 that think that they are gangsters just because they play this game.
  
  This is one of those great games that has a brilliant single player, that is down right genius 
 with private chat online. Now if anyone has ever played Oblivion on Xbox Live Private Chat, thats 
 what this is like. The customization in this game is fun, and well good looking.
  
  You could customize to look like Joker, be like Bush, or just be yourself with Pimped out clothes 
 on.
  
  In the end, Saint's Row is going to be a collectors love. -Zeta_u (Gametag: Tyler Lopez) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Rich118
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is basically Grand Theft Auto but on Xbox 360. The story line is good and it keeps you 
 wanting to know what happens next. The game views gangs in their own territory and how their lust 
 for control has them trying to take over, starting from nothing to being the most popular gang 
 in the streets. The only thing that i would like to see in the game is more variety of vehicles 
 like motorcycles, boats, and aircraft. All Grand Theft Auto fans will definately love this game. 
 Other than that its a must have for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slappnuttz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 6, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  I was very skeptical about this game before I purchased it. I am a fan of the GTA series and thought 
 this game would just try to be that good. But after owning it since launch and putting 30+ hours 
 into it, I have to say this is one of the best sandbox games ever. I've enjoyed this game more 
 then any of the GTA games and now cannot wait to see if R* steps up and makes the new GTA better 
 then this game. The controls, graphics, gameplay, missions and you name it are original and are 
 put together so well. If you haven't played this game you must, MUST go out and get it. You will 
 not be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Souls
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 2, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  i think its better then gta finer graphics people flying outa there cars if you hit them hard the 
 cinematic scenes are very good the story line could be better but is just en off to keep you with 
 it. the person creator is not good it could be bigger more things to do the gameplay could also 
 be better to equip weapons is hard and you get distracted from the game gets hard when youre being 
 attacked the camera is anoing to camera doesn't follow the car always you have put the camera some 
 time back to it's place again it affects sometimes your gameplay but nevertheless i like this game 
 very much.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furrymuffins
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This is the best GTA clone by far, it's like playing GTA 3 with a heck of a lot better graphics. 
 The story line has variety and is solid. The sound is crisp and clean. Don't forget about the @$$-Load 
 of cheat codes too. A Buy by far. The Car custumization has something to desired but as for the 
 Character custumization, it is alot like Oblivions (thats a good thing) . the Controls are superb 
 and changes from car to car. Their are a variety of thingsto do in the game, such as Insurance 
 fraud, drug trafficing, demolition derbies, races, and more. hopefully you take my advice and buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greigax29
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Gangs or an Old Lady if it ticks you off its gonna fly its Saints Row in the shadow of GTA: SA also 
 known as its Big Brother this game is a wild assortment of battling, killing, ho's, pimps and of course 
 you thats the necessities of life in Saints Row, At first everyone thought it was just another wannabe 
 trying to ripoff grand theft auto but it turned out to be like a sibling to it Lots of things alike 
 but also different the game has a freakshow assortment of  and 
 lets not forget cars and their customizations like HYDROS and NOS the battles are increasingly 
 intense and will pose a challenge to even the most skilled players, And starting a gang just got 
 better going online allows you to play with 2-12 players or a (s: Gang: s) and with the new things 
 coming out (downloadable content) they allow you to wear even more freaky clothes and CONFIRMED 
 that you will be able to make your own gang and name it give it a color and rise through everybody 
  race::ONLY black people::Car of choice::Fer 
 De Lance: black with hydro and NOS always:) sounds like fun i think so, so you should rent this game 
 if you like it BUY It! and a great selection of music the only downside is its a little too short
 
  
  ~greigax29~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnny_Anaya360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Some info you might want to know before I get on with the review, I am about 40-50 hours in the 
 game and beaten the main storyline. My Gamertag is ShottyOwnage
  
  You begin the game by making a custom character of your choice. This game has a huge amount of 
 customazation when you start of the game. 
  
  You have the choice of editing your characters Race, Hair, Body weight, Facial hair and of course 
 hair style. If you ever want to change your appearence all you have to do is visit the Plastic Surgeon 
 and pay some dough. This games character creation is almost as deep as The WWE games or the Tiger 
 Woods games. As you Progress through the game you will be able to buy more clothing with such things 
 as jerseys, t-shirts, bandannas, baseball caps and jewlery.
  
  There are 4 Gangs in Saints Row. The 3rd Street Saints (The Players Gang)
  The Vice Kings (Yellow) , 
 The WestSide Rollerz (Blue) and Los Carnales (Red)
  
  The gamplay closley resembles the gameplay of the GTA Series but also has some things that are 
 completly unique to the game. One thing is your able to rob stores such as the gun store, jewlery 
 store etc. It is vary simple to pull off, all you do is take out your gun and put the reticle over 
 the store owner which they then lead you to the safe.
  
  The Explosions in this game are very beutiful too. Which look very well even on a standard TV which 
 is nice to just watch them go off. The player models look great a bit shiney but still very well 
 done and there is a good amount of diffrent cars that look great as well.
  
  The game's audio may not stand out quite as prominently as the visuals, but it's even better. The 
 sounds of gunfire and car crashes are wincingly loud, and the game makes excellent use of surround-sound 
 audio systems if you have one. The voice acting is very well done but it has to be doesn't it with 
 such a all-star cast featuring, Keith David, Michael Clarke Duncan, David Carradine and others. T 
 he music in this game is awsome with every type in the game from rap to rock to classical to jazz 
 and of course some radio stations.
  
  The onlne has four modes; Gangsta Brawl, Team Gangsta Brawl, Big A** Chains, Protect tha Pimp and 
 Blinged Out Ride which are all pretty fun.
  
  You get achiements for taking over each gang territory and completing the game. One for playing 
 20 hours. It has some multiplayer ones which you will get over time. In about the first or second 
 hour in you should have about 4 achievments. The achievments are not too hard just a little time 
 consuming.
  
  This game Has enough going for it to be unique and bring some new stuff to the table and stop being 
 ''The GTA Clone''. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hobbies230
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a new free roaming action game that renders a Grand Theft Auto style, but, if you 
 ask me, delivers a better experience than the genre-dominant GTA series. In Saints Row, you will 
 find many fond similarities that will remind you of GTA, or, if you have never played GTA, a massive 
 new world to explore that will hook you in with the first cinematic.
  
  This genre lacks major titles, so many people may not be familiar with it. However, Saints Row 
 is easily adaptable and the free roaming style will be sure to capture your fancy. Saints Row gives 
 you the freedom to run around a large city, through suburbs, slums, downtown, etc. while performing 
 gang-related tasks that help you build your reputation on the streets. That is your ultimate goal; 
 to assist your gang, The Saints, in dominating the city by ridding it from the three other gangs.
 
  
  Before you start your life in a gang, you must first create a character. Character customization 
 is brilliant, and you will definitely want to experiment with all different kinds of looks. There 
 is no option to make a female character available, but you have can choose from four ethnicities, 
 several eye colors, various hair and facial hair styles/colors, and sculpt your man's face and 
 body in whatever way you like with simple slider bars that control the character's appearence. 
 A great thing about the character creator in Saints Row is that you can range from making a serious 
 thug, to a cartoonish Mario themed character. My friend has made an excellent representation of 
 one of those cliche, fat security guards that you see in movies a lot. ;)
  
  But no, customization does not by any means stop there. In fact, you have the choice to customize 
 a HUGE variety of vehicles, clothes, jewelry, tattoos, and you can even go for plastic sugery and 
 completely redo yourself! These marvelous features are what mainly pulled my strait into the game. 
 You may think that these customizable options are not complete, but trust me, you will not be disappointed. 
 Cars have paints from matte to iridiscent, and you are able to choose to change up the hood to 
 the side mirrors! I cannot even explain how amazing the options are! And you will be thrilled to 
 know that the amount of cars at your disposal is immense. Get a classic Corvette, a stylish Lamborghini, 
 or perhaps a new pickup truck. And, on another good note, you get to keep up to sixty, yes, sixty 
 cars total.
  
  As a gang member, you shouldn't be wandering the streets with the default black t-shirt and baggy 
 blue jeans. Your apparel is an amazing part of your freedom to express yourself in the game. You 
 can basically be any style you want. Deck yourself with a sports outfit, take on a mechanic look 
 and wear a bulky bull belt buckle, or maybe ride in high class with a nice tie, cotton pants and 
 jacket and shiny shoes. The choice is solely yours, but I advise you to explore all of the clothes, 
 because the variety is absolutely stunning. As for jewelry and tattoos, what can I say? Want some 
 new sunglasses, a watch, ring (not just for your fingers) , or necklace with a dog tag? Or maybe 
 an eight ball tattoo on your shoulder or heart on your chest. You will not be let down by Saints 
 Row fabulous options to make yourself unique in the game.
  
  Of course, these treats don't come for free. You need money. You need respect. These are basically 
 the two currencies in the game. Money, which you obtain from beating missions, thievery, bullying 
 people, etc., will get you all of the goods the game has to offer. Respect is a system within the 
 game that determines whether or not you can advance further into the main story. While it may not 
 be the most enjoyable system as you start playing the game more, you should be satisfied for a 
 good amount of time. To earn respect, you need to do activities found on the streets. There are 
 plenty of ones to do, but they get really, really boring after you've already done them already. 
 They all have eight levels to complete, each getting harder, so you will have to complete multiple 
 levels of them to earn enough respect to advance. It's really a major downfall of the game.
  
  However, putting the activities aside, the main story is extremely fun and enjoyable. The three 
 enemy gangs and completely different, and all offer a new experience for the game. You should stay 
 interested in all of them. I loved them, and replayed through it maybe three times. However, the 
 game itself isn't too challenging, especially the main story. There is no difficult settings to 
 be changed, so once you are used to the game you should be able to soar through. The only thing 
 that will get in your way will be the activites. Once you get to the higher levels, the game can 
 actually get extremely tough, but you are not required to go that far.
  
  Multiplayer... in a word, sucks. To get in a match, you must ATTEMPT to go a grueling process that 
 could take a LONG time to get through. And when I say process, I mean that you are put onto a loading 
 screen, unable to talk to the anonymous people you can see popping in and out of the screen, and 
 have to listen to the horrible music until the system finally decides to start a game. You can 
 see the game full, and the game may not start for another five minutes. It is utterly rediculous. 
 When you actually miracly make so far to actually join a game and start playing, you are guaranteed 
 either A) dreadful lag or B) terrible, just terrible trash talkers. The game has the potential 
 to have good multiplayer, but it ultimately fails.
  
  The technical portion of Saints Row is fantastic. The graphics are top notch; the explosions are 
 probably the highlight of them. Everything just looks great, and your eyes will be pleased. However, 
 I must say that the sound is breath taking. Voice acting is some of the best that has ever made 
 it to my ears. This is a game that I am actually thankful for having a lot of cinematics. I adore 
 the acting, and the lip syncing is superb as well. A LOT of people think that the cussing was over 
 done in the game. News flash! The game is based around gangs! Gee, I just never would have thought 
 that they would cuss so much! It disturbs me; the ignorance of those people. Now that I mentioned 
 that ways of gangs, I'll bring up the music. Basically all of it is rap, so be prepared to buy 
 some ear plugs. Sure, rap music easily fits the theme of the game, but I still turn off all of 
 the car radios and avoid the main menus (in fear of the background music) as quickly as I can.
 
  
  All in all, Saints Row is a fantastic game. The style of the gameplay is nearly flawless, and all 
 of the features on the side just make the game even better, especially the huge customization factor. 
 Buy it for a long, enjoyable single player adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbartolo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I mean, you do all that work, and every little step forward you take, you think you are going to 
 achieve something really good, than you come to the last level, and bam. You are betrayed. It just 
 really annoyed me. Though on the whole it is an amazing game, there are many things you can do 
 in the game, just like what happens in real life. (although that stuff shouldnt be made) . I just 
 wished that you can fly planes and stuff, though the cars are really cool especially if you tune 
 them up. Well, let us face, probably, this is just the beginning of Saints Row. If you really think 
 about it, people compare this game to GTA San Andreas, but GTA has been in the world for ages, 
 and also it has grown and has rep all around the world. So I guess, in my opinion, Saints row is 
 really good for what it is. And i am sure that the nest Saints Row game will be better than this 
 one, as probably GTA 4 will be better than GTA San Andreas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a action adventure game with GTA style gameplay. You play as a unnamed gang member 
 for the 3rd Street Saints gang and it's up to you to kill off the other gangs in Stillwater and 
 take over the city.
  
  If you have played any of the GTA games from GTA III to the current GTA game you will have no problem 
 playing Saints Row as it borrows heavily from these games. You can take to the streets on foot 
 and drive about anything with wheels. There are storyline based missions and alot of other side 
 missions like stealing cars, street racing and protecting drug dealers while they are making their 
 deals on the street. Unlike GTA where these side missions arn't required to progess through the 
 game you will need to play some of these side missions to progress through Saints Row. You have 
 to unlock new missions by raising your respect bar, to raise your respect bar you will need to 
 complete storyline missions, side missions, take over enemy gang strongholds, or engage in other 
 illegal activities. Just playing storyline missions will not raise your respect bar enough to unlock 
 new missions. As you complete storyline missions or capture enemy strongholds you will start to 
 take over enemy gang territory. Like in GTA: SA your territory will come under attack from the gang 
 that you took it from. You will then have to get to the area and take out the marked enemy gang 
 members. As with the GTA games there isn't enough mission variety, after taking out two of the 
 three gangs I was starting to get bored.
  
  The on-foot and driving gameplay is pretty much like past GTA games and both are viewed from the 
 third person. The only real differences I can think of is that if you stop taking damage your health 
 bar will refill and when driving you can also shoot your pistol, SMG, or toss grenades. There is 
 also a nav system to help you get to where you need to go. For the most part it works ok but sometimes 
 it plots strange paths for you and every now and then will change the path as your driving.
  
  The graphics in Saints Row for the most part are pretty good when there isn't a glitch happening. 
 The city, vehicles, and other on screen characters look good, better then any other GTA style game. 
 There are some flaws however... the most frequent flaw that seems to happen is during cutscenes 
 and sometimes during normal gameplay, there will be a small horizontal line across the screen where 
 the picture is a little pixilated and messed up. There is also low res to high res pop-up while 
 driving and sometimes when driving on a interstate overpass the road will disappear.
  
  The sound in Saints Row holds up better then the graphics. All the sound effects sound great as 
 does the voice acting. There's also a good variety of songs to listen to on the radio while driving. 
 Every now and then the radio will pause and I've also had it repeat sometimes but there's far less 
 glitches when compared to the graphics.
  
  Even though Saints Row borrows heavily from GTA it improves on a few areas. I've enjoyed the game 
 alot and anyone who like GTA style gameplay should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseandnikki
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  The graphics for an open world game such as this, with hardly any loading times or major frame 
 rate issues, are amazing. The lighting effects from the street lights, the pedestrians, and even 
 the car models (especially when damaged) look spectacular. Some minor glitchs such as with the 
 hair and some other things in the cinematics are kinda funky, but overall I'd see the graphics 
 in Saints Row are sharp.
  
  Gameplay:
  Saint's Row may not be the next GTA, but it is still really fun. Sidemissions such as hitman, insurance 
 fraud, and snatch are really fun and are things I would like to see put into the next Grand Theft 
 Auto game. The gunplay is amazing as well, with a first person shooter feel. I really like how 
 there's no auto-aim, but the one thing I would've added would be a precision aiming for more of 
 the weapons. The Havok physics are also fun to play around with. The main story is nice, but can 
 get really repetitive. However, unlike San Andreas, it sticks close to the gang life, and doesn't 
 get off-topic with the main character doing secret government jobs and such, which I think makes 
 Saint's Row a fun game to just get into and play.
  
  Sound:
  The environment effects are awesome. In some of the bad neighborhoods you can hear added gunshots 
 in the background along with honking horns... giving the city real life. Also, in the apartments 
 district when I went between two apartment building I could even hear a girl scream -- with pleasure 
 *wink wink*. All of these things make the city feel more real, and immerse the character into a 
 game that has life in it.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Multiplayer has a lot of cool ideas, I just think they were poorly utilized. Such as the camera, 
 which makes it near impossible to sneak up on anyone. The guns are also EXTREMELY unbalanced. If 
 you don't have an AK or M4 your pretty much at the mercy of luck. Unless you're far enough from 
 the enemy with a sniper rifle, or if you're good with one in close range... you may as well just 
 give up. The gametypes are creative and new, such as Blinged Out Rides, Big Ass Chains, and Protect 
 the Pimp are very fun to play if your team isn't full of morons.
  
  Overall:
  Please don't be a GTA fanboy and deny this game the respect it deserves. At least rent it. If you 
 know you like these game.... definatley buy it. The singleplayer is still the biggest and funnest 
 part of the game, but multiplayer does add a little flair to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crypto-236
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 1, 2006 1:30 am PT
Review:  This is probably one of my most favorite games for the x box 360 because its a addictive and brings 
 some new elements that gta can improve upon such as more activities there was a butt-load of activities 
 in saints row which i very much liked. It has a very exciting story which is probably something 
 gta could never do. There was some reportedly cons: less clothes you have to download them from 
 x box live marketplace, less weapons took allot out of the full gaming experience, glitches was 
 a big issue that happened to many people but why i still havent got a glitch is the question, 
 frame rate really sucked when youre using a HDTV really screws up the game speed.
  Well Im going to stop rambling on about this game well this is my review thank you for reading 
 this peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolt21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of my most favorite games for the x box 360 because its a addictive and brings 
 some new elements that gta can improve upon such as more activities there was a butt-load of activities 
 in saints row which i very much liked. It has a very exciting story which is probably something 
 gta could never do. There was some reportedly cons: less clothes you have to download them from 
 x box live marketplace, less weapons took allot out of the full gaming experience, glitches was 
 a big issue that happened to many people but why i still havent got a glitch is the question, 
 frame rate really sucked when youre using a HDTV really screws up the game speed.
  Well Im going to stop rambling on about this game well this is my review thank you for reading 
 this peace! ---BOLT21 --- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Halfsmoke
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 2:06 am PT
Review:  iight i played this game after school and the lil time i get i just beat the d*mn game and i saw 
 the **** endin i loved the game i mean i was f**kin hooked but when yall see the f**kin endin yall 
 goin 2 be pi**ed just read this you kill some dude that kidnaps the boss 4 the Saints right well 
 Troy is the undercover cop right there then you already knew he was a cop when i think the boss 
 toold him he got the Vice Kings and said no right off the back he was doin business with king the 
 whole time the chick who went undercover 4 the Westsides Roller dies and sh*t and you tak out the 
 freakin mexican and **** some how they all knew tht somethin was about 2 happen the aishia girl 
 and the boss of the Saints looked at there watch the lady who was with the boss of the mexican 
 was on top the bridge king was waitin 4 somethin johnny as sleepin he had no idea and dex the i 
 think he knew somethin well you on the boat with the **** mayor i know i think spelled that wrong 
 anyways well you on the boat he talkin about gang and stuff and he calls the 4 FBI agents and and 
 he says you goin 2 die here i was so ready 2 beat some FBI's a** but H*LL NO you dont do that the 
 freakin boat blows up thats it i think there is a number 2 comin out but my **** got blown up The 
 Saints used me 2 kill all the other gangs then betray me the endin mad me so d*mn mad i threw the 
 damn controller out the window nd broke my DVD player so if i was yall read this and think about 
 it is it worth $60 4 that and the bad part is you cant go back and do the other **** it goes back 
 2 the damn menu i was HEATED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7540
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row... You could say it sucks rotten eggs. You could say it stinks. There are many ways 
 to describe this old piece of junk that looks, feels and somehow sounds like GTA, only with more 
 bugs. The environment isn't that big, the car models sometimes looks worse than my dog's crap and 
 the need to clone GTA almost failed entirely. On the other hand, the missions are layed out pretty 
 darn well and the characters seem more alive than GTA's pixeled heads and under-pressured expressions. 
 This isn't a game for the sissy's who care about originality cause there is nothing original here. 
 The cops chasing you, the stealing cars, the aim while shooting... we've seen this before. A definite 
 must for people looking for more Grand Theft Auto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akbirdman
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Deeper gameplay in terms of control/ realism than latest GTA games, but with less depth in the 
 story/writing/atmosphere departments. While there are less side missions overall than in GTA, I 
 think it's an improvement that all of the minigames that are in there are more directly related 
 to crime than say delivering pizzas as in GTA.
  
  I feel like the gameplay itself is more fun, but the storyline and the atmosphere are not as clean 
 as in the GTA series. At points the writing really makes the plot really seem like a knockoff and 
 more than a bit exploitative. The in-jokes tend away from the clever cultural references found 
 in GTA and lean towards cheaper sex/toilet humor.
  
  Overall I think Saints Row is tighter in terms of gameplay than GTA: SA, which felt a bit unfocused 
 to me (got to be too much extra stuff to get caught up in) . The pacing and variety of gameplay 
 options in SR feel more finely tuned and related in a more comprehensive game than in GTA: SA.
 
  For me Saints Row is a fine addition to the collection, and will probably help push the ppl at 
 Rockstar to work harder on their next GTA effort, but will not kill the GTA series by anymeans. 
 Still when you are talking about at titan of a series such as GTA, coexisting in itself is a success. 
 This is definetly the best entry in the GTA wannabe department, rising above mere rip-off. The 
 atmosphere/storytelling could use some tweaking, but the gameplay is there. The sense of humor 
 and setting, which I think is at least as much a factor as gameplay in making GTA the cultural 
 phenomenon that it has become, is not quite there in SR. Still the gameplay will carry SR enough 
 to make it a success, and this game is a sturdy foundation for a continuing franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DEM0NCHIEF
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, despite it being alot like GTA it still has alot of thing that are very fun!!!!
 
  
  Gameplay- Rag doll (+++)
  Tons of different and varied modes from Hitman to Demo Derby (++++)
  There is so much to do ! (++)
 
  MANY GLITCHES (---)
  
  Graphics-
  I love the explosions in this game (++++)
  Lets face it, IT LOOKS AMAZING FOR THE SIZE (++)
  Really cant think of anything bad (+)
  
 
  Sound-
  The guns sound great (+)
  Alot of Music (++)
  I dont like rap so that narrowed it down to about 2 good stations (---)
  Everything sounds how 
 you would expect it too (+++)
  
  Value- Single and Multyplayer are very good (+++++)
  Tons of replay value (+++)
  So much to do (++)
  For some it may get repetitive (---) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbrendan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Saints Row has been called by many as a GTA Rip-off, but when you look at the genre in general, 
 GTA opend the doors but many games that came out of it were so diffrent from GTA you cant really 
 call them rip offs. Saints Row is part of that group, a game in which i really didnt even thinka 
 bout GTA while playing it, because in theory the game should be excatly like GTA but in Practice 
 it is much diffrent. It gives it its own unique atmosphere and its charcters are so lively you 
 never once catch yourself saying thats exaclty like GTA!! and now im going to stop talking about 
 that because i said GTA 7 times now, but the game itself is amazing. A huge city busseling with 
 people and men in hot-dog costumes. Great stores with almost every piece of clothing you can imagine 
 (save for a regular white tank top, which i was suprised to see wasent there) . The gunning is actually 
 more reminicsant of the more disastrous 25 to life, but this time it does it right. The driving 
 is so much fun and so real that you'll find yourself purposely catapulting yourself through the 
 windsheild time and time again. Again, the game gives such an atmosphere that youa ctually feel 
 like your one of the citizens. For instance, ive been ina gun shop before when someone runs in 
 and sticks up the lady! i was shocked so i pulled out my Sheperd and shot him......... then I robbed 
 the store, but still i prove my point, it was very exciting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: therabidfrog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 29, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  Saints Row fixes everything that sucked about GTA, but removes some of the little details. The 
 gun play and fighting are perfected. It's a great feeling to be able to shoot some one through 
 their windshield, and take them out while still driving. The missions are toned down in difficulty, 
 which makes every single one of them fun, and keeps up an excellent pace. I still felt like I was 
 missing some of the hidden treasures GTA had to offer, but this is defiantly the game for those 
 looking for something close to GTA, but are sick of the series' refusal to fix its short comings. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackle2071
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 29, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  this game really shocked me i thought it would totally suck but in the end i had a blast. yes if 
 you want to point the finger and say this game is just like GTA i mean its a carbon copy man it 
 plays just as well (if not better at times) has evrything you would want out of a game of this 
 nature and makes evrything you do fun! pure and simple its no radical step forward for the action 
 crime game field but denfintaly there is fun to be had and i think you will be happy once you sit 
 down and play it. in the long and short if you like GTA if you cant wait for the next GTA go out 
 and grab this one it should help hold you over a little till the next GTA comes out. i hate to 
 keep compairing it to Grand Theft Auto, but like i said it really is a carbon copy. just think 
 GTA III whith better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secondshooter
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row, may be a ripoff of GTA, but let me tell you, its much better. In Saints Row you run 
 around, kill people, and go on missions. You can, hijack cars, kill policeman, and abuse your character 
 in many different ways, like jumping off a bridge into traffic, sending yourself flying out your 
 car windshield., and a lot of other things as well. The only thing that I didn't was the amount 
 of cussing. They throw the word, F**K at you in every sentence. Anyway, I'm at school and class 
 is almost over, so Saints Row is an awsome open-ended world game with too much cussing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is the expected Grand Theft Auto killer. Or atleast it's supposed to be. It takes everything 
 GTA has accomplished, and copies it word for word, line for line. Basically it's GTA with next 
 gen graphics and a controller re-amp that you'll enjoy.
  
  Saint's Row is a great game. It has a large city for you to explore, a lot of cars to pimp, and 
 great characters you can laugh at. The game lacks GTA depth, meaning you can't be a vigilante, 
 firefighter, or ambulance driver, all though you can steal those vehicles. The games characters 
 are very interesting. Their is a lot of celebrity voice work done, so you'll here some voices that 
 you may recognize from other games/tv shows/movies. On top of the voice work the game looks amazing. 
 The character models are well done, and the cut scenes spors more detail than anyother game. One 
 of the games characters look see realistic, it could've been mistaken for a photograph.
  
  Saint's Row isn't a perfect game. It has a few framerate issues, and minor pop-ups here and there. 
 Sometimes theirs even minor collision detection. All these flaws can be over looked though.
  
  You start off the game as some punk walking down the street who gets caught in a turf war. 
 You're saved by some Saints and then join their order. Each story based mission (Involving other 
 characters) reward you with territory and money. Other missions in the game such as Snatch or Insurance 
 Fraud activity allow you to earn respect. Respect is used to unlock new missions.
  
  The game is pretty fun except it could be annoying to finish. It isn't the story, it's the respect 
 missions you have to go through. Some of these Activities are humerous, but not for very long. 
 The end result is that you're forced to do them if you realy want to take still water and finish 
 the game w/ its story.
  
  If you need your GTA fill, Saint's Row is where you should look. YOu can gun, run, and beat people 
 down in this sharp looking, great sounding, 3rd person action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdcrocks14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game that shouldn't be missied for all 360 owners. If you like GTA then you will 
 like thins because in my opinion this is better. the game manages to balance realism with fun without 
 going too far on either side. the main storylines (3 stories) were pretty well done and although 
 were a bit on the short side managed to get the message across that this town aint very nice. the 
 game was easy in parts but in others it was extremely hard balancing out the 2. everyones experience 
 is diffrent thanks to the variety in gameplay: you could be anything from a pimp to a hitman and 
 the game gives lots of choices in clothing and jewlery. the gameplay was also a phenomenal part 
 making it easy to blast your way through gangs and cops, drive at 300 MPH through the streets, 
 or take over territories. This game should not be missed and is worth the 10$ to rent it or 60$ 
 to buy for your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edgegot2bechamp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  If you lke gta style games you should definetly pick this one up. This game has top notch graphics 
 (expecialy explosions) some decent music and sounds. But most of all it improves on the gta free 
 roam style by giving you tons of mini games such as snatch, demolition derby, insurance fraude, 
 drug trafficing and more, plus it has a very well done story about 4 gangs fighting for the same 
 city. Each gangs has diferent missions ranging from really easy to extremely challenging. It also 
 has an online mode but it baddly needs a patch but when it gets it it will be some of the best 
 online out there.
  One of the bad things about this game is that the cars are randomly appearing so if you look away 
 and then look back there will be cars that werent there before. But overall i would say that this 
 game diserves a 9.2 and i think that the future gta games will copy some of the things done in 
 this game. Just as this game took what was good about gta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelWhy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so it is a complete and total rip-off of GTA. But, it's a QUALITY rip-off. The only people 
 who should be bothered by the rip-off is Rockstar Games. As far as I'm concerned, this is just 
 GTA on a next-gen system, and I've loved playing it. There's a great variety of mini-games, and 
 a huge area to explore. Also, there are lots of well-hidden 'easter eggs' for the hard-core gamers. 
 You'll definitely get your money's worth.
  
  I'm curious to see if GTA can best Saints Row when they put out their Next Gen title. If not, we'll 
 just have to wait for Saints Row II...
  
  (Make sure to grab your copy quick before Congress starts the 21st century equivalent of a book-burning 
 ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 27, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  When a revolutionary game comes along and generates tremendous success and critical praise, it 
 is sure to generate it's fair share of clones: games that copy the formula of the successful original 
 without quite obtaining the same enthusiastic reception.
  Pac-Man had his clones, so did Mario, so it was only a matter of time before the highly acclaimed 
 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas would get the same treatment. Hordes of clones were unleashed on 
 the masses, but none even came close to being as brilliant as it's source of inspiration.
  
  When publisher THQ and developer Volition Inc. announced Saints Row for the XBox 360, it's 
 only natural that the gaming community got a little hesitant, all the while remaining curious at 
 what this next-gen title would look like. When it was released at the end of August, they were 
 pleasantly surprised.
  
  Saints Row is an urban action-adventure set in the present day. You play an unnamed character who 
 is unwillingly forced into a very volatile situation between the gangs of Stillwater: Los Carnales, 
 Vice Kings &amp; Westside Rollerz. Luckily for you, Julius, of the 3rd Street Saints, is there 
 to rescue you from certain death. He then asks you to join his gang.. and the rest, as they say, 
 is history. You will then help Julius and the Saints in their takeover of Stillwater.
  
  Although this sounds somewhat familiar to the story in San Andreas, Saints Row has a less deeper 
 one here. Mind you, the story is still good, but there is this constant cheesy dialogue and fake 
 gangsterism lingering around. The story is filled with clich&eacute; s and you'll often find yourself 
 thinking Ah yeah, I knew he'd/she'd say that .
  
  Nonobstant the cheesy, predictable story, the gameplay in Saints Row is pretty solid. It might 
 take you some time to adapt to the controls, especially if you're used to playing some GTA, but 
 it's really not that bad.
  You control your character's movement with the left analog, while you aim with the right and shoot 
 with the right trigger. You use the face buttons to jump, reload, check inventory and use items.
 
  Naturally, you'll get to drive some cars around Stillwater. The driving is also very simple to 
 handle here, each type of car responds differently, as you get different senses of speed and control.
 
  
  All these controls are fine and dandy, but what do you do around Stillwater anyways? Well, the 
 game is based on 3 arching storylines, which blend in with the main one. Your objective here is 
 to take over Stillwater from all 3 rival gangs, and you will do so by completing parts of the storyline 
 and also by taking over Strongholds.
  But to do so, you will need to fill up your Respect meter by doing certain Activities all around 
 Stillwater like: Insurance Fraud, where you need to throw yourself in front of passing cars to 
 collect some insurance money; Mayhem, where you'll need to destroy a certain amount of stuff (cars, 
 property, people...) ; Hostage, where you climb aboard a car with a passenger and evade the police 
 for a certain amount of time. There are many more activities here, and they all add something different 
 to the game. The idea is highly original and very well done, not to mention tons of fun.
  
  What makes this game different from others in the same genre is the sheer amount of things you 
 can do around town. Aside from the Activities mentioned earlier, you have the Shops, which include 
 clothing stores, jewelry stores, restaurants, gun &amp; car dealerships, and so on. Not only can 
 you buy some things in those places, but you can also rob them in broad daylight or break into 
 the stores at night. You won't earn any Respect by doing this, but you can earn a ton of money 
 though. Another thing you shouldn't forget is that clothes make the man: the more purple clothing 
 you have on (the Saints gang color) , the more Respect you earn when you complete a Stronghold mission 
 or an Activity.
  
  Speaking of making the man , Saints Row allows you to create your own character from scratch. You 
 get a choice of 4 base models (Caucasian, Black, Asian &amp; Latino) . You then get to customize 
 everything, from your face to your body. Although this has been done before in the Godfather game, 
 it is still new for a game of this genre, and it is a welcome addition.
  
  Another welcome innovation in Saints Row is the map feature. Everybody has suffered at one time 
 or another with the maps in previous games in the same genre, where getting lost was as common 
 as shooting a police officer. Here, you will be able to place a marker on the map of where you 
 want to go and it will outline the route to take. Finally! Someone thought about adding this in 
 the game! Brilliant!
  
  But, not everything is rosy and innovative in the town of Stillwater. There are still a couple 
 of glitches that hinder the gameplay in varying ways. For instance, it is not uncommon to see the 
 road, horizon or even the car disappear in thin air and then reappear. At other times, one of your 
 homies will disappear for no reason or drop dead after you reload or finish a mission, especially 
 if they were burning alive when the mission ended.
  
  Speaking of homies, their AI in this game is horrid. They have this unhealthy tendency to run in 
 front of bullet fire or incoming rockets, and since you have 30 seconds to revive them, you risk 
 the chance of going down yourself when you do so. They are pretty good shots though, but them running 
 around mindlessly can get really aggravating. Aside from arming yourself with guns for certain 
 missions, arm yourself with patience.
  
  Saints Row has online multiplayer. Although this sounds pretty damn sweet, and it is in certain 
 respects, it's not all rainbows and puppy dogs. The game modes are very interesting: You have Gangster 
 and Team Gangster Brawl (Deathmatch &amp; Team Deathmatch) , Protect Tha Pimp (where one player 
 on the team is Tha Pimp, and the others need to protect him until you reach your destination) , 
 Big Ass Chains (where you collect some chains and bring them to a certain point without getting 
 killed, a la capture the flag) &amp; Blinged Out Ride (very original, where you collect cash to 
 upgrade your ride to level 4 and then show it off, without having the other team destroy it) .
 
  All of these are incredibly fun to play, but there is one little hitch: the online is extremely 
 laggy at some times that it makes playing the game online a real pain. No matter how many people 
 are playing at a certain time, it's always laggy. At this point and time, it has not been fixed 
 yet.
  You earn a certain amount of money after each online game which allows you to buy clothes for your 
 online character. Naturally, you can import your character from the single player into the multiplayer. 
 Clans (or gangs, in this case) are supported.
  
  The graphics in the game are beyond reproach. Although there aren't many different car models or 
 gang members or even people on the street, they are very well represented. This truly looks and 
 feels like a next-gen game.
  The sound is pretty good also. The voice acting is ok, not stellar, but that could be due to the 
 very bad casting and corny dialogue. The music, on the radio stations and in-game, although all 
 licensed, is almost unknown, except for a couple of classical tunes here and there. THQ probably 
 didn't have the same licensing power as Take Two has, which explains the lack of known songs. But 
 hey, Wagner's Flight of the Valkyries is in there, so it's all good. Guns sound like guns, cars 
 sound like cars, etc.
  
  All in all, Saints Row is a damn good game in it's own right. It may have borrowed some stuff from 
 San Andreas, but it's originality and mission structure make this a stand out game, and not a clone. 
 I highly recommend this game to anyone who wants to get their gangsta on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balckwolf57
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna keep this short and simple. Its a complete GTA rip-off, but is that really a bad thing? 
 GTA is and awesome game and saints row does everything GTA does and more. Just think of it as another 
 GTA game. This game is a very fun game and I reccomend buying or at least renting the game and 
 giving it a try.
  
  Once and a while you will get that annoying long mission that gets hard to beat but you dont get 
 them to often so it's no big deal. The mini-game respect missions are really fun as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gj84122
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  I dnt hav a 360, but i played it at a frnds house. i expected more from the graphics, while the 
 gameplay was excellent. Its like vice city but more interaction and an overall better RPG. If ur 
 into gang fights and robbing stores and stuff, then pick up this game. The controls are easy and 
 it features a great online mode in which u can create clans with ur frnds, or join one with people 
 online. Missions in normal gameplay can sometimes become a drag, when tht happens u can turn to getting 
 into fights on the street, grabbing a fellow gang member to help u rob a store, or do some driveby 
 shooting. It has a car custimization feature so have a nice car while ur out on the street. overall 
 just a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row, this year held the biggest side title out of all the other games, the most anticipated 
 title of the summer... Everyone wanted to play this game and see how it would work. Everyone was 
 so impressed by the Screenshots, the good controls and the videos, but unfortanely this game really 
 didn't go down the way it looked. Saints Row, is just like any other so called GTA game, in some 
 ways. Now, this game sometimes almost like mimic it and sometimes it is a whole different path. 
 You start this game off by creating your own characther. You choose the race, how tall, fat, skinny, 
 muscles, etc. All the way down to the cheek bone. When you first start it up, you will realize 
 your a nobody living in an everybody world surrounded by gangs... Well, of course, this is all gonna 
 go to hell. All the gangs (vice kings, West Side Rollerz, Los Carneloes) start fighting each other. 
 You of course are stupid to get in the middle of it and get saved by the Saints Row ( a small group 
 of pretty much freedom fighters against the other groups) . Troy and Julius the two top notch guys 
 in Saints Row, come there and tell you, that if you come to the Saints, we will possibly let you 
 join... Well, of course you go there and you get in no matter, what. But thats the story for you.
 
  
  The gameplay is exactly like GTA, you go everywhere till your heart contents. This city named Stilwater 
 is so huge, you dont know what to do with yourself... There is activities such as hitman, chop shop, 
 hijacking, etc that you must complete along with shops, Gun Store, Jewelry, clothes and hell there 
 is even a car shop, that has the best cars in the game. The controls are pretty decent to get a 
 hold of but at first its kinda hard. The missions you will do will be mixed, some so hard you can 
 throw the 360 controller down the drain and some so easy you ask yourself, why the hell did i buy 
 this game. All the missions/activities are pretty much the same concept... Protect, kill the protected 
 or be the protected. Thats all your missions are, sometimes you will have to stop hoods from invading 
 your hoods and kill all the captains and they run off (sometimes this is impossible) . The guns to 
 choose from are pretty decent amount, not that many, but enough to keep one man occupied for a 
 little while. Cool thing about this game is you can jump over tall walls, Run really fast, charge 
 your own health and other stuff. To bad this game is to rend of glitches... There is easily 10 glitches 
 that you can easily fall into that are annoying as hell.
  
  The graphics in this game are unbeliveable, the buildings, characthers, weapons and about everything 
 else are amazing. When you drive over the bridge, you will see some amazing views that just lite 
 your mind. You will even see the reflection of the water, and then see the city. All the cars have 
 awesome affects on them, when you hit the wall, you will see huge dents and if you get shot, you 
 will see giant bullet shots. When your car explodes, the smallest pieces fly every which way. It's 
 so amazing it just makes your eyes tear.
  
  The voice overs in this game are pretty decent... Nothing spetacular, just like the soundtrack that 
 looked like it was stolen off a cheesy rappers album...
  
  This game is so fun, I enjoy playing it and the edge it adds to GTA is so fun. But this game is 
 another GTA carbon copy. I'm really getting tired of all these games copying GTA, Saints Row does 
 all the little stuff GTA can't do, but the biggest stuff are far from the picture. This title is 
 an easy rent, but might be a hard one to swallow for a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insteletr
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Saints' Row &eacute; um dos piores bairros da cidade de Stilwater - E &eacute; tamb&eacute; m o 
 lugar no qual voc&ecirc; nasceu. Voc&ecirc; est&aacute; cansado de estar na base da cadeia alimentar, 
 ent&atilde; o, voc&ecirc; decide fazer seu jogo. Comece como membro dos 3RD Street Saints , uma 
 gangue local de Stilwater e trabalhe duro para ser o rei de Saints' Row. Fa&ccedil; a o que for 
 necess&aacute; rio para ganhar dinheiro e construir sua imagem de respeito e poder, para alcan&ccedil; ar 
 o t&iacute; tulo de a maior gangue de Stilwater. Forme gangues, recrute novos membros para sua gangue 
 e compita por dinheiro e respeito em v&aacute; rios modos de jogo, incluindo modo cooperativo.
 
  
  - Explore uma cidade imensa - V&aacute; para onde quiser e fa&ccedil; a o que bem entender, em diferentes 
 partes da cidade, a qualquer momento
  
  - Invada bairros controlados por gangues rivais e tome as atitudes mais med&iacute; ocres poss&iacute; veis 
 para tomar seu respeito
  
  - Centenas de op&ccedil;&otilde; es de customiza&ccedil;&atilde; o - Modifique sua apar&ecirc; ncia, 
 suas roupas e qualquer carro que desejar, com o extenso sistema de modifica&ccedil;&atilde; o de 
 carros
  
  - Curta m&uacute; sica enquanto dirije - 20 esta&ccedil;&otilde; es de r&aacute; dio tocam mais de 
 130 m&uacute; sicas, do mais quente hip-hop e esta&ccedil;&otilde; es de rock, &agrave; m&uacute; sica 
 cl&aacute; ssica e talk shows
  
  - Desafie outros jogadores online em games de lutas entre gangues como Big Ass Chains, Bliged-Out 
 Ride e Protect tha Pimp 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Da1ShrpSh0trGrl
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Game play Disregarding the fact that I have been playing the game for about a week now, I consider 
 have played enough hours to make a judgment. From the very beginning I realized that this game 
 is very similar to Gran Theft Auto San Andreas. The story line its still original, but when it 
 comes to the mini games, taking and protecting territories, vehicles, weapons, map layout and other 
 features its just another Gran Theft Auto. Regardless the game play its still good and you always 
 wonder what will happen next. Audio and Video The audio for this game its good, quality is great, 
 the sounds are clear and realistic and music choice for radio stations its about average. If you 
 are not satisfied with the music provided in the game it allows you to play your own songs, it 
 gives you the capabilities to play the songs stored in your computer as long as the PC is on, and 
 running Windows Media Connect software fairly easy to install. Online Experience When it comes 
 to the online experience, I tried this and I must say it needs lots of improvement. Online games 
 suffer lag to the point that you will have invisible players shooting at you. Recently I had a 
 forum thread about this and about 50% of the gamers that posted had some kind of lag issues so 
 you might or not run into that issue. A new update should be releasing soon, hopefully this will 
 fix some of the bugs. Maps are not very creative neither the online games. When it comes to matchmaking 
 it takes a very long time to load. Achievements When it comes to XBOX 360 achievements, there is 
 a Thousand of them and some of them are pretty easy but others are hard, regardless, points hard 
 to get since most of the achievements are worth about 10 points and you must make many achievements 
 to make a significant amount of points. Overall The storyline its good, online need improvement 
 and even though its very similar to GTA its definitely worth the play. I will rather recommend 
 to rent and not to buy this game but it requires many hours to complete the storyline itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasSpy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  Saints Row does seem to be another GTA rip-off, everything will when it comes out after something 
 big does. What this game gives that GTA doesn't is fun.. yes I said it fun, GTA started getting 
 old after vice city when they used real actors for voices, Saints Row has a snappy story to get 
 caught on with voices, side-jobs to make rep which are more action packed then other games like 
 this are. Makes them more enjoyable to do so you don't want to put it down cause you can't keep 
 going with the story. You can lay markers to locate the next place you are going on a mission or 
 if you want directions to a location on the map. You sometimes receive calls about a gang attacking 
 a section they used to own till you took it and have to get over their to defend the area, which 
 adds some more play and interest that your really fighting for something as you see cars speeding 
 about shooting everyone. As you progress further into the game, you are allowed to call members 
 of the gang to join you in what mission or job your doing based on room. The AI is even smart to 
 where you shoot a car, they do the same or if someone shoots at your car, they return fire. During 
 Gang Wars I've sat back and let my guys pick up some good guns and do the work for me sometimes. 
 Can't say that for many games these days. Completing Sub-jobs on their 8 lvls gets homies or other 
 items. Homies go down in your phone from your start option which you can call when you want. they 
 don't answer every time, but when they do, they help get the job done. When getting territories 
 you gain a safe house sometimes, money earned on each day, and a extended section for gang members 
 to roam. Saints Row is heavily based on money if you wish to complete achievements on the 360. 
 Doing the jobs always earns a bit of cash, but the main flow comes from checking your safe house 
 every day in-game or so, all the money from all the areas comes to any safe house you check safe 
 at. No more having to drive to 9 locations all over the city to get a few thousand. This game also 
 has a great deal of stores through out Stilwater, where you can customize your character to almost 
 any way you see fit. buy food so you can eat during a fit to heal instead of praying to god theirs 
 a health icon someplace close. The Aim reticule for your guns is fairly accurate if you take the 
 time to aim, also recoil in the automatic weapons while moving adds more of a fight in the streets. 
 Weapons can always be bought at a shop, picked off a dead body, or collect ammo of the weapons 
 you have at your safe house. You Start to obtain many different cars as you take down the gangs 
 your facing, also by completing certain sub-jobs, or just buying them if you have the money. Most 
 of the cars show a semi-real feel as you drive them, real on the sounds and how they pick up on 
 speed and when damage it effects the car, along with getting the wheels shot out making handling 
 difficult. not real is how you can just power slide at any speed and when taking a jump your car 
 sometimes bounces and does a couple of flips as you shoot 100 feet in the air. Now towards the 
 bad cause every game does, main one everyone sees first hand is the graphics. they have a big step 
 down for being on the 360 for looks. They could have put everything they have in the game and made 
 them look a little more real. its crisp but doesn't hold much texture to the bodies. When people 
 died they flop around like a fish out of water, or on many cases I can walk up to them and see 
 them bent like the letter L and they sitting in the middle of the street after being gunned down. 
 Getting ran over by a car looks more like doll fling about and some very unrealistic air times. 
 Explosions are little hear-say from time to time, cause I don't know how many times I hit right 
 in front of a car to blow out the engine and they drive right through it or shoot a car chasing 
 me and I lay 3 clips into the driver and he's fine. I know about leading my shots with moving vehicles 
 but not at 4 feet or sharing paint. When you do connect with a car, bullets don't pop tires like 
 it does on your car and explosion from bullets makes it look like a bomb was put under it. rockets 
 make the car soar and then you wait like 10 seconds and the car blows up again after it goes into 
 3-4 pieces. I can say it maybe was too easy to beat the game, the missions were never a major challenge 
 except for like 5 missions. When Failing a mission you have to start the whole thing over even 
 when you have to do 3 parts to the mission which can turn you away from this game rather fast. 
 when failing a sub job you have to go back to where you started it to retry instead of getting 
 asked the option, which can remove the wanting to play the extra stuff. The Online which was one 
 of its major feature as of now, SUCKS!!. Yes I felt like I was on Dial-up trying to play this game. 
 Xbox has to stop what they doing and try to fix the play online, I know its new, but when you make 
 millions of dollars daily, you can put at least 5 people to check and see if online is playing 
 like 50$ a year and acting like it should on a 400$ system and Broadband connect. All and All its 
 a fairly good game. when that you can rent if you just looking to have some fun or own if you can't 
 sit and put alot of hours into it quickly. It doesn't take long to beat the game, maybe 10 hours 
 tops, getting 100% requires you finish all the sub-jobs which takes a large amount of time. You'll 
 like the characters you run with and enjoy the reactions to the other gangs as you finish missions. 
 This game is like many games before it and it will remain in that shadow due to it not taking it 
 to the next step of gaming. But it did put in the Kid in the Hood, being part of a gang and the 
 lifestyle to goes around it with a heavier push for the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweendrix
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  Saints Row for the Xbox 360 travels through some very familiar territory but ultimately gives 
 its gamers a refined, well modeled gaming experience.
  
  Pros: Voice acting is excellent, well written story, solid game-play, interesting mission design, 
 large beautiful city, well thought out controls, excellent graphics, in depth character creation, 
 exciting missions, excellent lighting, detailed car and character models, diverse selection of 
 music, etcetc
  
  Cons: Occasional bugs (very rare) cause crazy on-screen rendering though this is rare and short 
 lived. Some of the missions can become repetitive. Multiplayer can experience lag issues.
  
  Saints Row for the Xbox 360 is a GTA styled free roaming game which players assume the roll 
 of themselves entering into the life of a gang member as a member of the Saints. The game is a 
 complete knockoff of Grand Theft Auto, however, this does not take away from the fact that the 
 game is genuinely fun to play and addictive to say the least. Missions
  
  Missions in Saints Row are setup very similarly to Grand Theft Auto. Players must do various activities 
 and side missions to earn enough respect to fill their respect meter in the game. Filling your 
 respect meter allows you to continue in the games main missions such as the Vice Kings missions 
 or the Los Carnales missions. The mini missions are often well thought out and fun to play and 
 give the game a feeling of openness and ability to roam to various parts of the city to complete 
 missions of choice. Every time that you fill your respect meter, you get a credit which can be 
 used to carry out one of the games main missions. The main missions are excellent and benefit from 
 a strong storyline, excellent characters, voice acting, and mission design. Any gamer can tell 
 that careful planning went into the details of each and every one of these missions and the results 
 of the completion of each of the mission can be compared to what one might think would happen in 
 real life if this were to happen. For exampleafter destroying the Drug Labs of the Los Carnales 
 gang and completing the mission, your character receives a phone call (sometime while you are driving 
 around) and this phone call is to inform you that your neighborhood is being attacked by several 
 members of the Los Carnales gang in their pimped out el-caminos and clever voice acting which draws 
 the player in. In short, the missions in Saints Row are fun and well designed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madskills6117
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  First, let me start by saying this is my first game review. The game was so good that I felt compelled 
 to let others know just how good it is. What better way to do it then to write a formal review.
 
  
  Gameplay - The controls are what you'd expect from any shooter if you're a fan of the genre. If 
 not they are very easy to learn. The game assist you in learning the controls with an in game tutorial 
 for the basics you will use throughout the game. Although there is nothing different about the 
 controls they work very well. Things such as changing weapons on the run are made very easy with 
 the use of both the analog and d-pad.
  
  Graphics - The graphics in this game are very good. With that said, it should be stated that this 
 game does suffer from some frame rate issues, at times, screen tearing at times and pop up. With 
 all of these negatives you maybe wondering how can I possible say the graphics are good or even 
 the game for that matter. These negatives never seem to hinder the gameplay one bit. Whether walking 
 or driving Saints Row is just nice to look at. Now don't go expecting Gears of War type graphics 
 but this game is certainly worth of the next-gen title.
  
  Sound - The sound is this game is actually pretty good. As you play through Saints Row you're treated 
 to an assortment of in game radio stations that allow you to listen to all types of different music 
 ranging from rap to classical music. The sounds of the guns are exactly what you'd expect all sound 
 the way you'd expect them to. Value - This game has tons of replay value. There are so many missions 
 that are not part of the main story missions that you'll find yourself spending hours with those. 
 One thing to note is doing side missions allow you to play story missions so all of this extra 
 fun is what allows you to complete the game. I personally have spent over 20 hours with the game 
 and have enjoyed every minute of it.
  
  Overall review - This game is just plain fun. The missions are varied and the story line keeps 
 you in the game. There never seems to be a dull moment. When you're not working towards completing 
 the story missions you're doing side missions that are fun and hilarious. The things you'll see 
 and hear while just roaming the streets of Stillwater will amaze you at times. I found myself doing 
 a double take a few times. This game is a must buy for any xbox 360 owner.... PERIOD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slim003
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Saints Row:
  
  Bads.
  1. Missions are mostly the same.
  2. Graphics aren't good.
  3. Driving ; doesn't look like you are going fast.
  4. Car Damage is ugly.
  5. AI can't drive. 
 ( Also in GTA )
  6. Radio stations are lame.
  7. Bugs and Glitches.
  8. Save games are useless because the statistics keep track of your deaths even if you load your 
 game, it still keep track of your deaths.
  9. Objects sometimes disappear.
  10. Rip-offs are ok, if you improve a game. Not in this case.
  11. Blood?
  12. Navigation arrows 
 make big de-tours.
  13. Warp to shore is lame.
  
  Goods.
  1. Corpses still roll when you kick them.
  2. Mobile Phone.
  3. Better customisation then GTA. 
 ( Also quicker to buy and wear clothing) .
  4. Three types of punching and kicking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HawksNDoves
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This game manages to do many things right. In this GTA style game you get a great city to rampage 
 in, cool missions, and addictive 'activities'. This game feels like GTA but it does many things 
 much better. The targeting is amazing! You can actually aim for yourself without using 'lock-on'. 
 The missions are varied and none of them are to impossible (think the Zero missions in GTA: SA) 
 plus the game doesn't just throw 70-100 missions your way. Saints Row does have some problems though. 
 The graphics are terrible. Draw distance is very, very, short. AI problems in the missions and 
 activities. The online mode is completely un-playable due to lag issues (think COD2 before the 
 patch) . You are also treated to one of the worst endings possible in a game.
  
  Overall Saints Row isn't the greatest game ever made. But it is the best GTA style game right now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mc2much
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 25, 2006 2:46 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is the best game on Xbox 360 i have played it looks the best and plays the best. The 
 graphics on this game are amazing. The missions are really fun. They are very rewarding. The best 
 parts is no load times, excelent graphics and the tonnes of side missions. The car modification 
 is great you can modify almost any car. However with all the praises there are downfalls i dont 
 know if its just mine but it lags while im playing it, when im driving down the road it just stalls 
 and i have to turn off my console and also the radio lags when i turn it on (plz message me if 
 u have this problem because i would like to kno if it is just me or not) . And also the misson part 
 is a bit on the short side 25hrs i played to complete all the main missions and not playing very 
 hard. But all the side missions make it worth while.
  
  Still i would highly recomend getting this game it is worth every $. A must have for any Xbox 360 
 gamer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fry_Loc6
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I know GTA was the first of its kind but saints row does the same thing... but better. There are 
 tons of things to do. Like Hostage, Snatch, Insurance Fraud, Escort, Hitman, Racing, Destruction 
 Derby, Drug Trafficing (my personal favorite) and many more. Your able to go anywhere in the game 
 when you first start out. You can use your cell phone to call numerous places. Like taxies so they 
 can pick you up and drive you to any store in the game. The plot is really good to. Its about you 
 almost being killed in a gang war until 2 gangsters named Julieus and Troy save you. So you join 
 there gange called the 3rd Street Saints. So the main plot is for you to take of the city, which 
 means taking out 3 other rival gangs. These gangs are the Los Charneles (a primarily Hispanic game) 
 the Vice Kings (a primarily Black gang) and the West Side Rollerz (a primarily Chinese and White 
 Gang) . Im not saying saints row doesent have its share of promblems. Some of the noticable ones 
 are that cars, usally on the freeway, tend to dissapear than reapear. Another is that sometimes 
 your homies dont have the brightest A. I. But besides those minor promblems, Saints Row is the first 
 of its kind to make a GTA style gang have a multiplayer. There are a number of modes which consist 
 of Gangsta Brawl ( Death Match) Team Gangsta Brawl (Team Death Match) Protect the Pimp (a V. I. P. type 
 of game) and Blinged Out Ride. Blinged Out Ride is a game where you have a car that you need to 
 pimp out. Your supposed to kill opponents to get cash and once you have enough money you bring 
 it to a the shop and upgrade it. You must upgrade it to level 4 in order to win. Once you win you 
 must keep it inside the Winners Square and keep it there for 1 minute while defending it from the 
 other team. So Saints Row is an amazing which you will be playing for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Graffclyde
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  It may look like a GTA Rip-off, which is not because they have more awesome things than GTA.
  
  Well i hevent finished it but, i'll tell u what i got so far..
  You start of with the 'Customizing 
 character', you can change your character from hair - bling, but at the start you can only customize 
 your character from face to muscles ect.. Then there will be an opening movie witch get u into 
 a gang called '3rd street saints' or something like that. Wait, thats not all the game has got, 
 it got better things,* BLING, customize your character to a Gangster man, you get guns from melle 
 to specials!
  You unlock cribs, strongholds, stores (when u drive around the world) , PLATINUM and GOLD (i think 
 those two colours) WEAPONS from playing hitmans (guns only) Whats so special about them? They are 
 FREE and maximum Ammo! (i dont know but i think u do get them for free) . Thats still not enough? 
 How about activities? From pimping to Drug trafficking, one of the reason why the game beats GTA.
 
  
  The storyline so far i am up to (20% in two days!) is GREAT, also the respect you get on the game 
 is better, from doing missions to cloths bonus and extra cash.
  
  This is a MUST-HAVE-XBOX-360-GAME for all you Gangster action - GTA alike lovers.. * Gangster chain 
 blings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_saget_832
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is kind of like GTA 3. You cant ride motorcycles, no helicopters, no boats. But, you 
 customize your own character, custmize cars, and you are in a gang. You can recruit up to 3 of 
 your gang members to follow you around and help you with anything you may need.
  Your basic goal in Saints Row is to take over the city, by taking down all the other gangs.
  
 Online play is fun. When theres not lag. A patch is rumored to be released for the lag. The games 
 online you can play are Gangster Brawl ( deathmatch ) , Team Gangster Brawl, Big Ass Chains, which 
 is where you kill people, pick up thier chains, and take them to a certain point, Team Big Ass 
 Chains, Protect The Pimp, And Blinged Out RIde, where its a team based game. Your object is to 
 kill the other team and pick up there money, which is put into pimping out your car. Once your 
 car is up to level 4, you take it to a place where you have to protect it for 1 minute. The story 
 is awesome, the online play is cool, fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  In 2001, Rockstar Games released Grand Theft Auto III which totally redefined free roaming game 
 play. Throughout the years there have been many games that have tried to imitate and out due the 
 series. Now, THQ has released their version of Grand Theft Auto, Saint's Row. While it isn't as 
 polished as GTA might be there is still a lot of potential.
  
  You start the game out as just another guy in the neighborhood. You get caught up in a drive by 
 shooting altercation between two gangs and luckily two men come to your rescue. It turns out that 
 these two men, Julius and Troy, are leaders of the infamous gang, The Saints. They both want you 
 to join the crew to take over the city of Stillwater. There are three other gangs throughout the 
 city, Westside Rollerz, Los Carnales, and the Vice Kings. In order to take over the city you are 
 required to take out all of the rival neighborhoods and complete their specific story missions.
 
  
  The game play in Saints Row is very smooth. Many people think that the game doesn't have much to 
 offer and that there is just driving and shooting to do. Driving a car or truck, no matter what 
 kind, just feels right. And as far as the shooting goes, the crosshair target makes it easy to 
 aim at your target. One thing is true, there is a lot of driving and shooting involved in the game, 
 but there is so much more to offer. Besides just driving around the city and shooting people you 
 can do various side missions you can participate in. Some of the missions are demolition derbies, 
 drug trafficking (where you ride alongside a drug deal and protect him while he does his dirt) , 
 mayhem (you have to destroy basically everything in the area) , and insurance fraud (you have to 
 fling yourself in front of moving cars to gain insurance money) . There are a couple other side 
 missions that will entertain. Also around the city you can break into stores at night and crack 
 open the safe to steal a package to deliver to a pawn shop. In order to crack open the safe you 
 have to complete a set of directions that appear on the screen with the left and right sticks. 
 During the day, when the stores are open, you can head into a store and stick up the owner. This 
 is done by simply aiming your gun at their head until they open up the store safe.
  
  There are many similarities between this game and the Grand Theft Auto series, but there are some 
 essential differences that let this game stand on it own. One is the map system. The map system 
 is very handy because you can pull up your map by pressing start and then mark your destination 
 on the map. Once you close the menu map, the onscreen map (at the bottom right corner) , will give 
 you a path to your destination. This makes it so much easier to get where you are trying to go 
 to because all you have to do is follow the path. Another helpful difference is when you are busted 
 or when you die you don't lose your weapons. Also if you fail a mission you are given the opportunity 
 to restart the mission with the same weapons and the same amount of ammo you started out with. 
 As you get deeper into the game you are allowed to have a 1 to 3 of your gang members ride along 
 with you to help with missions. Plus if your 'homies' lose their health you can revive them by 
 getting close to them and pressing Y. These factors alone make the game more forgiving and lenient 
 than any GTA game." 
  
  In order to appreciate the spectacular graphics you should play the game on a high-definition television. 
 The game does a nice job of distinguishing the lower class areas and the high class areas. The 
 graphics are so awesome that even the lower class areas look nice. The whole city is very detailed. 
 The cut scenes are great and show an enormous amount of detail.
  
  Saints Row shines when it comes to the sound in the game. The voice acting is on point and even 
 though there is a lot of foul language it never seems overused or out of place. Just like in the 
 Grand Theft Auto series, when you steal a car you are able to change the radio stations. Granted 
 there aren't as many radio stations as there were in GTA: Vice City, but there is still a nice 
 variety. Some of the genres include rap, rock and classical music. Also the commercials for certain 
 stores throughout the city are quite humorous.
  
  There are a bunch of things to be done in Stillwater causing the game to be high in replay value. 
 As I stated before there are various side missions around the city that can be completed. There 
 are CD's and tagging missions throughout the city. The multiplayer is very interesting. You can 
 make your own crew over Xbox Live and compete in a number of multiplayer missions. There seems 
 to be a problem with the lag online, but hopefully there will be a patch soon that will fix this 
 problem. If you are looking for attainable achievement points then look no further. The game has 
 some achievement points that are a breeze to unlock, while some respectively take longer to get.
 
  
  There are a few glitches that I encountered with the game. I noticed that while driving on the 
 highway sometimes the car in front of me would disappear. At times while driving, the whole car 
 would disappear and all I could see was my character sitting in the seat. The car would still be 
 moving, it was just nowhere in sight. I'm not sure if this happens with every copy of the game 
 but that was just my experience with it. The AI in the game can get annoying at times. The fact 
 that you can have your 'homies' ride along with you is great, but at times it can hinder your performance 
 during a mission. There were plenty times where my 'homies' got in the way of me shooting, or they 
 wouldn't follow me because they couldn't get around a wall.
  
  Saints Row has taken the successful formula that Rockstar created and added a little twist to it. 
 Sure you might not be able to jack motorcycles, boats or helicopters, but the game makes up for 
 it in other ways. Whether you are a fan of this type of game or not, Saints Row deserves a round 
 of applause for giving Rockstar some type of competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lX3R0Xl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  When I frist heard of Saints Row, I thought Oh boy, not another lame GTA clone .
  But, I was so wrong. It turned out that Saints Row was in fact very fun. With fun activities, a 
 great story, and hours of mindless fun, how could you not like this game? But, there are some pros 
 and cons I'll point out for you:
  
  Pros:
  
  +Pretty good story, it will make you want to know what happens next.
  +Lots of fun activities. 
 (Unlike gta IMO)
  +Bling, Chains, Pimp Cain, Pimp Coat, ect.
  +Lots of cars
  +Customize your player anyway you want to
  
  Cons:
  
  -Not much clothes to choose from
 
  -Aiming in cars is a bit hard
  -Way too easy. Even getting 100% is not a challenge.
  -Bad soundtrack. (IMO)
  -Not many guns to choose from.
  
  Well, I guess thats about it.... 
 soooo.....
  
  Rent Or Buy?: Buy.- I mean come on, if you dont like the missions or anything (I'm sure you will) , 
 it will still hold you over till GTAIV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKimbley
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Saints Row represents the latest offering into the now crowded genre, and the first for the Xbox 
 360. Its a game that isnt shy about the fact that many of its mechanics are ripped straight from 
 Rockstars Grand Theft Auto series, but for Saints to truly make a name for itself it will have 
 to take a few chances to separate itself from the competition.
  
  You play as a new member of the 3rd Street Saints, one of four gangs that are fighting for territory 
 in the fictional city of Stilwater. After a rather uneasy beginning, complete with overdone speech 
 and character introductions that seem rather forced, things settle down into a surprisingly entertaining 
 and well written story. The goal is to take over the city, taking control of areas that are currently 
 run by other gangs. Each gang has its own distinct look and favoured vehicles, and the main characters 
 are pretty believable, although a few jokes are thrown in here and there.
  
  Core gameplay is as to be expected, with your character being free to walk, run and drive around 
 the city as he pleases. Innocent drivers are rather unceremoniously escorted from their vehicles 
 in typical GTA fashion, but you'll only ever be driving cars, trucks and the like - the bikes, 
 planes and boats seen in San Andreas sadly don't make an appearance. That's not to say that the 
 cars are dull, they're far from it, and there's a pretty large number to hijack, each with its 
 own unique driving style.
  
  The key to progress in Saints Row is respect. You need a full respect bar in order to tackle a 
 new mission, and while this might seem like a system designed to extend the game's length, for 
 the most part earning respect is a lot of fun. Your character earns respect in a number of ways, 
 such as taking down rival gang members and tagging specific areas in enemy territory, but the easiest 
 and most fun way to do so is to play one of the game's many mini-game-like activities.
  
  Saints Row is one of the few next-gen games that truly warrants a next-gen price tag, with a lengthy 
 single-player campaign and a fun online component to extend the experience. Originality is great, 
 but with that illusive new idea becoming harder and harder to find, well made imitators (especially 
 in a genre that rarely gets it right) can't be sniffed at. Saints Row even manages to show GTA 
 a thing or two, and deserves a place in the collection of anyone old enough to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXor512
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a GTA-inspired 3rd person action/adventure game set in present day in the fictional 
 city of Stilwater. Right out of the box there is something you have that is different from Grand 
 Theft Auto... a fully customizable character. Not only can you customize shirts, pants, underwear, 
 shoes and jewelry, you can also choose what skin color your character is and how skinny or fat 
 your character will be.
  
  Youll notice some things immediately in Saints Row that are similar to GTA. The basic premise 
 of the game is the same with you shooting people on foot and getting into cars and driving wherever 
 you want. The missions are pretty similar as well where you have to just shoot other gang members, 
 follow someone in a car from a distance, drive vehicles without them getting damaged and other 
 things like that. What Saints Row does different from GTA is it forces you to play activities in 
 order to earn respect to continue missions. If you dont complete activities on a regular basis 
 then you wont have enough respect and therefore, wont be able to continue doing missions. The 
 activities in this game are really fun and they are pretty different too. There are activities 
 where you pick up a woman and then pick up a man on the street and you have to drive around avoiding 
 cars taking pictures while she is pleasing him in the back seat. Other activities include jumping 
 in front of traffic to earn money in insurance fraud, killing people in hitmam and delivering cars 
 to a certain location in chop shop.
  
  Unlike GTA, Saints Row doesnt have a lock-on system when it comes to aiming. The shooting is pretty 
 basic, there is a little circle on the screen and you move the circle around with the right analog 
 stick onto an enemy and shoot. Unfortunately, there arent a lot of weapons in Saints Row. Youll 
 get a few handguns, machineguns, shotguns and sniper rifles, with theyre being some different 
 weapons like a bat, knife and cocktail but thats pretty much it. The weapons work well and they 
 have a good sound to them. You can even shoot when you are driving and you can shoot in all directions 
 instead of just to the left and right like when driving cars in GTA.
  
  The driving in Saints Row is very good and all the cars feel a little different and work well. 
 One problem with the driving is that when you make a U-turn the camera messes up a little and takes 
 a second or two to get the view right again. Whats good is that you can fix this problem after 
 you make a U-turn by pressing LB and RB at the same time and release to bring the view back to 
 normal. Unfortunately the only vehicles you can drive are cars. There are no motorcycles, bikes, 
 boats, helicopters or planes in Saints Row.
  
  The graphics arent perfect but they are still good and look nice. The framerate is good and there 
 arent any problems with that. The videos in this game are done very well and the voiceovers are 
 terrific. Also, the explosions look incredible and really show off the 360s power. The radio stations 
 in Saints Row are really disappointing. The music isnt that great and the talk radio stations 
 arent even close to being as funny or interesting as the radio stations in Grand Theft Auto.
 
  
  With all that said, Saints Row is more than just a GTA-rip off. It brings new things to the table 
 like the fantastic waypoint feature on the map, activities, cars using direction signals, the ability 
 to recruit gang members to help on missions, robbing stores, breaking into safes and some other 
 good things as well. This game proves that it doesnt belong in the shadow of Grand Theft Auto 
 and it is an excellent game on its own right. Saints Row will be a fun game for a long time and 
 its a great new franchise thats definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  But lets face it.. If it wasnt for GTA this game wouldn't exist, lets leave it at that. For you 
 hardcore gamers its the exact same thing as titan Quest is for Diablo. This game is a 9.0 without 
 a doubt. The only reason you see the occasional 5.0's if for people who dont like violence in entertainment 
 (if you want a pg rated game buy topspin 2) . Dont buy this game if you dont mind hardcore violence. 
 The graphics are incredible on a HD set with the upgraded component video cables (there is a difference 
 between those and the stock cables) . The game plays scaringly familiar to how accuracy works when 
 shooting. Games are expensive in this day and age but forking out approx 63.48 depending on your 
 sales tax rate is definitly worth it if you enjoy violent adventure games; thats what this game 
 is. Saints row is a game you dont have to complete to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOADToTheMax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 23, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  Saints Row puts ragdoll effects in sandbox games on the map! In my eyes there is nothing better 
 than watching a blinged out gansta fly out of a car and sliding across the road. Saints Row gives 
 you the ability to laugh when you die because the crashing, fighting and shooting systems all have 
 ragdoll effects which just blow my mind to say the least. I hope that Saints Row is just the start 
 of the ragdoll games revolution. In Saints Row not only do you get the funny radio shows like in 
 GTA but you also get a phone to call homies and my favorite an audio player. When you create a 
 character in Saints Row I guaruntee you that it will not be like anyone elses. You know can create 
 a special playlist to cruise for hos in. Top that GTA. Online gameplay in Saints Row is solid to 
 say the least. With a average storyline the game shines in the online modes. With the ability to 
 acsesorise and create gangs on online mode really causes the next GTA to shoot for the moon. After 
 half an hour of gameplay I had realized that Saints row and GTA are going to be the biggest gaming 
 rivals of the next century. With quality missions, character creation and superb physics Saints 
 Row will be inspiring game designers to out do the masterpiece which we call Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  The game Saints Row tells the epic tale of one gang called the Saints as they battle rival gangs 
 to become the rulers of the city Stilwater.
  
  It starts off letting you customize your character - anything from nose size and hair to muscle 
 definition and weight. From there you're allowed to run around, punch &amp; kick enemies &amp; 
 civilians, hijack or buy and customize cars, spray paint walls, buy clothes and jewlery, purchase 
 guns (and boy is there a wide variety of guns such as RPGs, handguns, shotguns, grenades, etc.) 
 , buy CDs, call up your homies to fight along side you, and MUCH more. In order to do missions 
 you have to earn respect. To gain respect you can do activities scattered throughout Stilwater 
 such as snatching hookers away from their pimps, protecting drug dealers as they do their things, 
 race, participate in demolition derbies, steal cars for stores, kill rival gang members, and many 
 more. Also, if you wear a lot of purple (the Saints' color of choice) you can gain extra bonus 
 points.
  
  The missions themselves are BRUTALLY fun (with the exception of maybe 3) . They go from destroying 
 planes, storming mansions, robbing cars, blowing up buildings, rescuing people... its all really 
 fun, and your rewarded with viscerally appealing and cool sounding cutscenes afterwards.
  
  To earn money you can rob stores (eitrher by holding them up or by opening the safe yourself) , 
 beat up people and take their money, do the activities I mentioned, or beat missions. The more 
 money you have, the more things you can buy.
  
  Also, as you take over enemy turfs for your own they will do these things called push backs on 
 random areas. This is when rival gangs try to take back their lands, and its basically an all out 
 war between the Saints and the enemies until you kill the red highlighted lieutenants scattered 
 throughout the territory. Once thats done, you can resume your game. Also owning more territories 
 gives you more money each day... by the time I beat the game I hasd about $8 grand coming to me 
 each day.
  
  Moving on, this game has an EXCELLENT sound track. There is something like 100 songs from different 
 genres such as hip hop, rock, and classical to listen to and many of them are really catchy. They 
 even have some big namers on it like Xzibit, Wu-Tang, Winger, and Fall Out Boy (but I dislike FOB) . 
 Ontop of that, if you have a hard drive for your system you can upload your own songs into the 
 game which is great. The sound effects are really top notch - like the guns shooting and things 
 blowing up. Additionally, the voice acting is superb as well. Everyone portrays personality through 
 curses, crude humor, and anger.. not to mention THQ also got some big times to do some acting such 
 as the guy who plays Goliath from the Gargoyles and the girl Jackie from That 70's Show .
  
  The graphics are great in Saints Row. Everyone looks lifelike, and the city looks so realistic. 
 The weather changes from sunny to rainy, night to day... its breathtaking. The cars look AMAZING, 
 be it really new and shiny to old and rusty, everything has an authentic feel to it. Easily better 
 looking then Grand Theft Auto.
  
  But like always, no game comes without faults. For starters, the weapon selection screen is hard 
 to get down and sometimes when you choose a weapon it wont exactly change to that weapon. Ontop 
 of that, shooting while driving is a nightmare. The ally AI is sometimes incredibly dumb and when 
 you want them to get into a car with you they will just stand there. Finally, the ending was terrible 
 - you kill the last guy and take over Saints Row. Julius, who is the head of the Saints, tells 
 you he still thinks something is amiss and that you're his right hand man now. Then they show you 
 cocking a pistol and overlooking a crew of your boys. Then this mission called the 3rd Street Saints 
 mission opens up where you have to take a bus and destroy it, and when thats complete you, Dex, 
 and Gat have to blow up like 5 police cars... evntually you meet with a guy running for mayor and 
 he says thank you but I have to kill you . He proceeds to surround you with like 50 of his goons, 
 then the ship blows up. Uh huh..
  
  To sum it up, Saints Row is a MUST HAVE for X-Box 360 owners or people who enjoy GTA-like games. 
 There so much to do, and its so fun to do it that you just have to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: --ItalianoPRIDE
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  The neighborhood has finally reached the breaking point. Gangs from all corners are waging war 
 for turf and bragging rights, but the Saints are looking to finally put the mess to rest. Stand 
 tall and take back your streets. So begins the story of Saints Row, filled with urban grit, grime, 
 respect, and the thirst to come out top thug in the world's most dangerous city.
  
  
  New store policy: Help yourselves. The setup and the world offer a similar taste to the venerable 
 Grand Theft Auto series, but don't worry, Saints Row is no GTA clone. Instead, this game, while 
 familiar, offers a distinctive feel along with refined open-ended gameplay. With just a little 
 bit of play time, Saints Row distinguishes itself in a variety of ways. Make It Your Own
  Create-a-player options are only recently making their way into action games from the more traditional 
 realms of sports and RPG titles. Just as in The Godfather The Game, if you're going to spend dozens 
 of hours in gang warfare, the game creators realized you'd probably want to do it with a creation 
 of your own. Build your own thug from scratch in Saints Row, with options to compare favorably 
 to even EA Sports Fight Night Round 3.
  
  
  That guy's trying to get your attention.
  
  Whether you're shaving an inch off the brow line, finding that perfect curve for the nose, 
 sculpting movie star cheekbones, or adding a flare of mischief to the eyebrows, you'll be able 
 to craft your perfect gangster from the ground up. Customizing hardly stops with the face or body 
 either. Take a look at the level of customization available:
  
  All manner of haircuts are available, both at the beginning, and as unlockables throughout the 
 game.
  Clothes can be bought and unlocked with the cold hard green you collect with each successful mission 
 or fallen enemy.
  Once a car has been transferred to your possession, you can buy any number of after-market upgrades 
 to put together a ride worthy of your respect and status. Factory stock cars need not apply.
  Dynamic Turf
  Classic turf warfare is not only represented, but it lives and breathes with dynamic 
 borders in Saints Row. It's not about edging out a rival gang for a plot point, but also about 
 literally taking their turf and making it your own. Consequently, unlocking new areas and shops 
 makes more sense, as taking over territory gives you access to the items and upgrades in that territory.
 
  
  
  This is what happens to those who get in your way.
  
  Turn and Shoot
  Third person action games have traditionally used an auto-lock-on mechanic for shooting, but recently, 
 the standard dual analog control has seen major success as well. Think Mercenaries, Tom Clancy's 
 Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell&reg; Chaos Theory, and Saints Row 
 takes its place on that list with a fluid targeting and camera system that allows you to always 
 feel in control of who or what you're shooting.
  
  Never Lost
  Little else is more frustrating than wandering aimlessly through a city in the mere hope that you're 
 reading the in-game map correctly. Again, Saints Row innovates with an elegantly simple waypoint 
 system.
  
  Any location on the map worth visiting can be highlighted, which sets an easy-to-follow path directly 
 to your destination of choice. What's more, the path changes dynamically depending on where you 
 are, offering not only the correct route, but the quickest one too.
  
  News and Notes
  They may not be major features, but the following demonstrate the immersion, quality design, and 
 production value inherent in Saints Row:
  
  Spotting Doors: Saints Row provides a glowing hand icon on doors that you can enter, solving the 
 trial and error tedium found in games that leave you wondering where you can and can't enter.
 
  Little Touches: From bits of muttered dialogue, to the reactions of passersby and the actions 
 of your AI controlled homies, Saints Row breathes life into its densely packed world. One unexpected 
 example came to pass in a traffic pileup, where a lone pickup truck slammed into a pile of cars, 
 causing the unfortunate driver to fly through the windshield and out onto the street.
  Turf Earnings: You'll gain access to daily funds with each bit of territory you steal from rival 
 gangs, symbolizing the active entrepreneurial enterprises of your Saints gang.
  Earning Homies: You begin your Saints career as a low level thug, but as you continue to prove 
 yourself, you'll not only earn the respect of your peers, but their active support as well. Before 
 going on missions, you can recruit a set number of homies to back you up dependant on your respect 
 rating.
  Saints Row may feel similar at first glance, but there's a world of refined gameplay, a gritty 
 and often hilarious story and city to experience, and overall thoughtful design that will keep 
 this game on rotation for months 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcwadsworth
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Yo, dog you better sit down before I put a cap in you ass!!!!!!!
  
  At last a GTA style game for xbox 360, but where s the bikes!!!
  
  Saints Row has done its 
 own bank job on GTA, it looks great plays like GTA, cars drive like GTA, the missions are like 
 GTA even the AI plays like GTA. The maps is smaller then San Andreas but no bikes, boats or planes!!! 
 loads to do shop, steal, chop, murder, insurance fraud, race and generally wonder around shooting 
 everyone . GTA is better but with GTA4 coming to xbox 60 next year this will do for now the only 
 real problem with this game is the online not the modes protect tha pimp is a real laugh!! But 
 the lag its awful what a waste dont expect a full online Stillwater (which is a shame maybe one 
 day) but levels where you have the usual game modes and project tha pimp in where you project your 
 pimp from being blown away and you get the chance being the pimp with your deadly **** slap!!!!
 
  
  In all Saints Row is good but could have been instant classic this will not stand up (Im sure) 
 to the first GTA on 360 but a god attempt and will fill that need to be a gangster.
  
  Wheres my ride? Saints row does not have any bikes, boats or planes to fly come on guys but will 
 these be part of down load content will have to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aromon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 22, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Just like 50 million other people world-wide, you love GTA. Grand Theft Auto III revolutionized 
 the industry by offering 3D visuals and brutal content. Vice City showed once again that gamers 
 indeed love Action-Adventure that offered every sin known to man. How about San Andreas? Other 
 than being the biggest and badest game ever made, it reformed the Action-Adventure genre into the 
 GTA genre . So has does Saint's Row stack up against Rockstar's masterpieces? It definitely holds 
 it's own while providing exciting new gameplay ideas that make it more fun and alot easier to play 
 the game with. First of all, you have a state-of-the-art physics system that makes the people flop 
 and fly like real dead bodies. Along with that, it provides beautiful graphics on an HDTV and superb, 
 strong gameplay that is solid and perfect the whole way through.
  Lots of speech in this one too. The citizens say anything from Hey, will you atleast toss me my 
 cigarettes when you steal their car and You aint no Saint, your just a little **** I love it because 
 it feels like Rockstar made it. Volition did a freaking awesome job on this game, and if you love 
 GTA, you will sure as hell love Saint's Row.
  Happy Gaming
  Aromon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dominican_fines
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all its kind of like gta:
  You could steal cars
  drive around
  kill people
  
  But it also has his own thing that make it very special:
  Theres some other 
 mini mission
  The Cars have Spinners
  There are More Gangs
  Cool Cars
  You can play online!
  
  I hope you like my Review and i hope this made you buy it! Becuase this 
 game is pretty fun!
  
  You also have Phones and you can call Will and he comes to you with a Car so you can Ride around 
 or if ur stuck anywhere...
  
  Plus theres some cool songs in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: konichiwa21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The single player story is pretty basic what I've played so far . There is tons of customization 
 in single player alredy . But , there are only cars - no helicopters , boats , and other vehicles. 
 There is a lot of focus on the shooting though which makes it a lot funner than any of GTA's . 
 The multiplayer is the real fun of the game though.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are pretty good looking , there are some glitches but it defintly delivers 
 some high quality graphics .
  
  Sound - Voice acting , screaming , guns , cars - they all sound good Value - Now the multiplayer 
 is the funnest on 360 so far , you can create gangs (clans) and do gang matches , you can play 
 ranked matches with all your friends in the same game as you , the lobby is fun by itself , you 
 can have custom match with just people in your lobby and you can customize close to everything 
 . The style of the multiplayer differs alot from the single player. It's way more tatical - like 
 a third person counter strike , but not as random. You have to take tons of cover , you have to 
 manage your time , you have to cover certain objectives tighter than others . There is also a clothes 
 system , so whenever you win a ranked match - you get money towards buying new clothes. - Now there 
 is only one problem with the online - is that its really laggy sometimes untill the new patch comes 
 out so maybe you should wait and buy this game untill patch comes out - Good Tilt - Funnest lobby 
 ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilshortydan12
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This game can easliy be said that its the best GTA clone there is but it does have its flaws. Im 
 not saying that the game is bad but there are some minor and one major flaw that keep this game 
 behind. The major flaw of this game is that there really isnt any type of creativity in this game. 
 Though there are some good things about this game. The gameplay is actually is pretty good. On 
 foot gameplay is really good as well as car driving in the game. Its not as good as GTA but its 
 good enough. The graphics though dont exactly look next gen but they look pretty good. The sound 
 is one of the best things in the game. It really has great sound. The game though doesnt have exactly 
 tons of replay value. You will beat it once and maybe you would go through another time but thats 
 it unless you really like the game. The story is pretty good but I have seen better. There is also 
 alot of things to do in the game such as cruising around the city, and customizing your cars which 
 surprisingly you can do alot to your car. The game has some bugs and glitches but that wont really 
 be a huge problem. There are tons of missions in the game but just isnt very wll done. Overall, 
 Saints Row is a pretty good game especially if you liked GTA but you gotta remember it isnt not 
 even close to as good but its just a solid game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fight8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit i had my doubts when i first heard about this game, but upon buying it i learned 
 this game is nothing like GTA, in fact it surpasses it.
  
  - Better soundtrack
  - Easier controls
  - Gotta love 360 degree drive-by shooting.
  - Fun and enticing rewards strewn 
 throughout the singleplayer campaign.
  
  
  
  Then.. there is multiplayer, which only has a few problems.. theres standbyers, of course.
  Lag, 
 which is always a problem.
  Theres that clothes glitch.. thats annoying..
  
  But overall, its easy to look past a few problems here and there for a great gameplay experience, 
 whether it be online or offline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoeshine60ace
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  now before i start the review i know people are probably saying just because it plays like gta 
 doesnt mean you should compare it or its its own game .. let me say something. That may have been 
 true for other look a likes like true crimes. but saints row is an exact copycat. plus if i did 
 count it as a free roam game and not a gta jock i would still compare it to gta so others know 
 what there options are...
  
  pros:
  --great graphics. 100 times better than gta.
  -- story is a little unique.. but definitly not as good as gta.
  -- easy learning curve
  -- 
 more side missions than gta (although not nearly as many as san andreas)
  -- customization is always good
  -- missions are done quite uniquely and are fun
  
  cons:
 
  -- soundtrack is horrible... no where as good as any gta
  -- the way missions are done are stupid. not the missions themselves.. but the whole have to get 
 respect to do next mission thing is really tedious. At first it seems fun but after a while its 
 annoying cuz u just want to complete story but u have to do activioties that arre tideous.
  -- Side respect activity missions get very boring
  -- seems almost as a halfazz gta. They tried 
 so hard to copy it yet they dont have all there features such as -- Cant have sex with hookers 
 -- No motorcycles -- no freeform quest (like looting, pimping, vigiliante, taxi etc.)
  -- because missions dont have checkpoints in them failing a long mission can be very very fustrating
 
  -- world is not as big as san andreas (or even liberty city.. come on..)
  -- controls may be easy but can really get in the way sometimes
  -- camera may be free roa but 
 in a car if you mess with the camera it can be hard to readjust and this can be quite annoying
 
  
  in conclusion, i definitly would not recommand this game. espicially with gta 4 coming out next 
 year i would advise everyone to not make the same mistake i did, and not buy the game. Unless you 
 just need a quick gta fix then i guess you could rent but playing previous gta is a much better 
 fix than this crap.. It has its moments but like i said it aint nothing special
  -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yugofangs2
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the saints row game for xbox 360 when it came out. the second I looked at the cover 
 I assumed here goes antoher low graphical grand theft auto copy. but when I saw the character creation 
 I was stunned at the ability to customize your person to the last drop. The story caught my eye 
 also being aware of the gangs that were their. The Vice kings (vicelords and latin kings) , Los 
 Carnales ( Bloods ) , Westside Rollerz ( Crips ) , and the Saints ( purple city or new world order 
 ) which you are in. The plot seemed a bit vague because the player had really no purpose. To me 
 it seemed as if Julius ( saints gang leader ) was the main character . Your character happened 
 to be in the right place at the wrong time . The game play is to my taste but after awhile single 
 player gets boring. probaly due to no motorcycles, boats, airplanes that you can actually use. 
 the side missions were fun to my opinion. the weapon choices were cool and the upgrades were nice 
 but they could of dug a little deeper. The 360 is more capable then this game showed. The Live 
 was cool though their was quite a bit of lagging in some cases. But I guess all online games get 
 that. Yet I give this game a thumbs up!!! gamertag RuezTheTruth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidSnake159
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is for sure what people are saying. A GTA RIPOFF. With that aside, THQ has made a half 
 witted attempt to jump into the 3rd person sandbox genera (pardon the spelling) They have created 
 to be what looks like a clone of GTA 3.... For the 360 that is. You start off by creating your own 
 persona, you can choose between a large varity of charachterazitons, and believe me there is alot 
 of customization in this game. As this gun for hire you roll with the saints yo (trying to keep 
 with the SR lingo) You are lead by Julius, and go around beating rivial gangs, and taking their 
 turf. This is done in a varity of ways, most of which involves driving very far, killing a few 
 people and then killing some more people, while being chased by people trying to kill you. Though 
 repetitive this is one of the highlights, primarily based on the targeting system (which can get 
 some getting used to) To unlock the main missions you must first complete activities to earn respect 
 to get missions. This is a great concept, except for the lack of fun activities. The good ones 
 are insurance fraud, and mayhem, the others can just get boring. Thats basically the gist of the 
 single player, which brings us to the multiplayer. The system is set up through matchmaking, and 
 includes your average DM and TDM, but it also has protect the pimp, and blinged out ride. Which 
 would both be very fun except for the huge ammount of lag, and there is no mention of a patch yet. 
 Overall saints row is the perfect game to tide you over to gears of war 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NielPeart
Rating: 6.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm addicted to the game, don't get me wrong, but... after GTA3, I am disapointed in it. Where 
 are the boats, planes and motorcycles? Where are the off-road missions? Why can I buy a gun, but 
 not ammo?
  
  Graphical glitches - namely aliasing, poor FPS when things get busy, and vehicles appear sideways 
 off in the distance for a split second then disapear.
  
  Functional glitches - jump on a car and hit Y and you are instantly inside, and intermittently, 
 when you dive out of a moving car, you transport instantly to a rail station and the current mission 
 is scrapped.
  
  Sound glitches - stand on any street with no cars on it and you still hear the sound of cars driving 
 by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mocha360
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is Saints Row is alot like GTA's but with some improvements. You dont have a lock 
 on feature in this game which I enjoy quite a bit. The driving mechanics are very nice as well, 
 you can shoot the enemy any where when your driving which makes drive buys alot easier. The character 
 creation is pretty robust, you can create anyone you want really. The Gang A. I is alot better the 
 san andreas was ( even though that's not saying much ) , They will go almost everywhere with you 
 which is a nice touch.
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks next-gen. The car models look very nice. The character models are great as well. 
 The problem with the graphics come with the horrible fade in. There is also quite a bit of pop 
 in. Sometimes when i'm traveling at high speads I will hit something invisible and then it will 
 pop in a second later.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is one of the high points in the game. The voice acting in the game is phenomenal, you 
 have people like micheal clarke dunken and that *itch from That 70's Show . Your character says 
 about 4 things in the whole game, but they are all hilarious. The soundtrack is very good as well, 
 it may not have the star studded cast that san andreas had but it still is very good. The talk 
 show radio channel is in my mind is fantastic, if they just added some more material it would really 
 be something special.
  
  Value:
  The story mode will take you around 20-30 hours to beat and it is fun the whole way threw. The 
 online play in the game is hit and miss, you have four game modes, gangsta brawl, big ass chains, 
 blinged out ride and mide favourite protect the pimp. Just like every other open ended game, when 
 your done with it you can just go on rampages and cause havoc all over Stillwater.
  
  Tilt:
  The game is great fun to be had, the missions are similar to one another but are different 
 enough to still be interesting. The online play is very laggy though, sometimes you will die and 
 will wonder what happened to you. But just like any sandbox game just blowing **it up is hella 
 fun.
  
  Overall:
  Overall if you have a 360 and your tired of playing san andreas then Saints row is a great choice, 
 Saints Row is a great new series and i'm looking forward to Saints Row 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortensenchaz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this game doesnt have motobike, planes, helicopters, tanks, boats etc. So what??? Does this 
 make the game unplayable ofcourse not. This game has lots of great ideas.
  
  I'll start off with the bigger things that make this game really enjoyable. First of all the game 
 is the true meaning of a sandbox. From the second you start playing you can go to all corners of 
 the map, buy guns (providing you have the cash which can be a challenge without missions) have 
 a nice cruise etc. Then when you do start the missions they arn't some liniear storyline that you 
 have to wade through to get money and guns and the rest of the map. you have distinct branchs to 
 chose from. I started with the VK (Vice Kings cause it says they are the toughest gang plus Johnny 
 was the main guy u deal with and he just shoots first and dont ask questions) but you can chose 
 which ever gang floats your boat. And the first thing i really noticed that was a relief (from 
 playing GTA and its clones) that the on-foot missions (where you spend most of you time blowing 
 away the other gangs) we're actually FUN ! What a change. The camera and aiming work well together 
 you dont need some stupid lock on target thingie which ALWAYS locked on to the wrong person and 
 took you ages to get the right target while getting yourself turned into swiss cheese. Aswell as 
 that changing weapons (after a short time getting used to it) is so much quicker than scrolling 
 through your (sometimes) endless list of weapons. Now its click point shoot. This also goes with 
 food selected through the same menu but using the d-pad instead of the analoge stick.
  
  These features make the on-foot missions fun to do rather than dreading them and hoping you wont 
 die purely because you'll have to do the mission again *cough* Getaway *cough*. Speaking of dieing 
 this can take some effort as the health system is on the forgiving side (unless your caught in 
 the middle of a 3 person shoot out you being the target) This also leaks over to the failing of 
 a mission you can just reset rather than die/get busted loose all your weapon and cash which you 
 have to get back before trying again you can just reset and it starts the mission from where u 
 picked it up. (although even if you do die or get busted you dont lose your weapons (praise the 
 lord)
  
  Between missions is a time where you can do anything you like such as beating up some of the 'homies' 
 that kicked ur butt during the last mission or do the side quest to earn enough respect to do the 
 next main story. This has been heavily slated by reviews as i've read but if you dont want to do 
 any of the mini-games you can go round spay a few tags and kidnapp a few traffic go-ers and almost 
 instantly you have enough (espically when you get better clothes which increase the amount of respect 
 you get) add this up and if you dont want to spend much time between the story (which can at point 
 be very intreging) but if not go on a couple of races, rampages and suddenly you have enough respect 
 to do 4 missions. This aspect is not as bad as lots of people made out.
  
  Now for the smaller things that make this game good (i know i went on a bit of a rant but i like 
 to cover this well as i am annoyed by the reviews out there) you have interactive waypoints that 
 show which road to use not just which way to head, while doing this you can listen to some good 
 music on your mp3 player (you dont have to be in the car) or a great radio station called WMD KBOOM. 
 This is the best station by far. This is my opinion cause i like americans making fools out of 
 themselves. kid these days just want to play the bad guys in the video games .... when we were 
 young it was cowboys and indians and everyone wanted to be the cowboy cause they were the good 
 guys not exact quotes but the gist and its our oil we're the ones that use it they just own the 
 land its on ... i dont even know what thats on about etc listen it is really funny. But if you 
 are paying to much time on the radio and not the road then you might crash if so (and your lucky) 
 2 things could happen 1. You (or the person in the other car) get shot through the windscreen ( 
 never get bored of that) or the car can blow up which is a site to see rather than dull graphics 
 this is something you will stay next to the car ( even though you get hurt) just to see his masterpeice. 
 Ofcourse this isnt what you want if you car has just bin 'pimped' out (which has a lot more options 
 than gta most cars can be modded and to more of an extent than gta which on some cars slapped on 
 new wheels and thats it) but if this does happen you can buy back you car so no spending ages picking 
 out the right colour only to have someone come along trash you car and leave you to pick up the 
 cheque. (which would often happen on the gta highway as they wouldn't stop for anything. but saints 
 row has intelligent drivers even on high ways plus just incase they tend to indicate before making 
 any rash moves. and if anyone does cut you up then it is with great ease you can shoot the hell 
 out of them (From your car) of course this will lead to police chasing you (which do for alot more 
 like the better robbery which you follow the shopkeeper to the safe (or if its closed pick the 
 safe yourself) and steal the money. getting back to my original point when police are chasing you 
 they tend to stay on you quite well you cant shake them off that easily unless you get rid of your 
 wanted level (which isnt just police but kill enough gang members and they will send cars pack 
 full of gun toating loonies into your area of gangland. But just incase you dont want the problem 
 of crashes and police then just call a cab (from your phone) and get there without fuss. (the phone 
 is also a tool of humour start calling the phone numbers round town and you can start to see the 
 effort put in (go on phone the suicide hotline (its worth it) ) but now it comes to the bad points
 
  
  I have, on several occasions, had crashes some minor taking a few seconds to fix them selves to 
 the full blown switch off the console which is such a shame. Also car that are right infront of 
 you can sometime just dissapear which doenst affect game play a whole lot but its noticable. And 
 yes this game doesnt have bike boats etc but again i say that i dont really care if it did bikes 
 dont make a game. and my final complaint is that unfortunatly some of the humour is crude to say 
 the least freckle **** (think McDonalds) is the most common with there try our fist burger ... 
 or if that isnt filling enought try the twins all the meat is grilled to order i like mine pink 
 in the middle and ofcourse their slogan You cant beat our meat its a shame that they went for this 
 of subtlty.
  
  And in one scentece. If you like GTA style but are fed up of the twitchyness and level of perfection 
 then go to Saints Row its fun its violent and gets everything good from GTA and adds some of its 
 own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwgober92
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is INSANE! It has alot of guns and alot of in-depth gameplay. Not only can you do the 
 main storyline, which is fighting other gangs and claiming the city as your own, but you can also 
 steal cars (every car in the game can be taken) , robbing stors at night, robbing stores during 
 the day (hold ups) , and TONS and I mean TONS of other little missions all over the town that you 
 can do.
  
  One of the big turn on points of this game is the fact that it is really open and you CAN do so 
 much... you can think of it sort of like a modern and less 'in-depth' version of an Elder Scrolls 
 game..... I spend most of my time robbing cars and then pimpin them out at the car garage and buying 
 grenade launchers at the gun shop and blowing up huge piles of cars on the highway =)
  
  As you can tell i LOVE this game.. Ive played it well over 40hrs and have done alot of stuff in 
 it... if you liked the GTA series your bound to love this game, mostly 'cause its EXACTLY like 
 those games, only you have gangs and your in a bigger, better, and more detailed city...
  
  The fact of the matter is, you really need to get this game... i dont care if you dont like violence, 
 if your a tree hugging hippie, or a smashed thug reading this from a stolen computer.... YOU HAVE 
 TO GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!! Because if you arent going to play it you can at least buy the game 
 in order to encourage another one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenVulture
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I have been wating for this game for months and now that its out im so happy. Lots of people are 
 hating this game but i dont know why, this game has a great story with a great ending, great gameplay, 
 and the many things that grand theft auto had. The multiplayer has realy bad lag but when you get 
 to a game that has everyone with a good connection the game can be great. So if you read my review 
 just try this game its really good and you wont be dissapointed and if you are Ill punch myself 
 in the nuts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAFreak182
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Saint's row is an instant classic in the eyes of a lot of people me for one.
  As soon as you pick new game you have a variety a huge vairety of customization on your'e character. 
 And the first cut-scene of the game is action when you're character gets in the wrong place in 
 the wrong time. And Julius saves you're ass from getting killed and expects you to join the 3rd 
 street saints.
  
  The weapons selection is pretty good starting with how much money you have and how much you are 
 caring to spend for a weapon.
  I also like how you have to get respect to do the missions so you get more out of the game than 
 the actual missions. A wide Variety of job oppurtunities are at you're fingertips if you want to 
 be a hitman or a chop shop or a drug dealer. The possibilities are endless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiggerboy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  When I play video games, there are a few things that I look for. I look for the way the game is 
 built. I look for the way the game pans out a story. I also look for similarities in games that 
 make me say, yeah, this is like (blank) game, you should check it out or its just as lame as (blank) 
 dont waste your time! Well, when I played Volition Inc.'s Saints Row I thought woah, this is VERY 
 similar to GTA. Yeah, I know, me and 3 million other people thought that. Well lets face it, it 
 is similar to GTA, but that is a very good thing. It does have the same feel to it to where you 
 can play for hours and still be as entertained as when you just started playing. Its very similar 
 in the way the game is built, where you can do JUST ABOUT anything under the sun. I think that 
 they did look at all the negativity that Rockstar recieved during its GTA run over the last couple 
 3 years, because although there are very simillar tings going on in the game, you dont cause a 
 puddle of blood to form when you beat someone to death with a bat, and track the blood away from 
 the crime scene with your shoes. Also, you cant take a hooker to the nearest alley and make the 
 car magically rock back and forth while staring out the front windshield either. So, although there 
 are a few things that keep it as graphic as GTA, the graphics are great, especially the explosions. 
 There are lots of missions to play that actually get you things other than just money, yet there 
 are plenty of way to earn that as well. The voice acting is great and the character models are 
 not half bad either. There are plenty of reasons why this game is great and all, but like I always 
 say, no game is perfect so lets get the low down on the down low, so to speak. First, the clipping. 
 Everywhere I turn there is screen clipping! Second, where are the bikes?!? There also seems to 
 be a problem with the roads disappearing while i am driving on them. Other than a few graphical 
 errors and lack of some detail, this game is a must buy for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_manasd
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Take a first look at his game and you think instantly that it's just another rip off of the GTA 
 series, but this game is so much more than that. Saints Row takes many aspects of the GTA series 
 and improves on them. For example the GPS on the map which makes getting around so easy, second 
 manual aiming when shooting from inside the vehicle are both aspects that improve over the GTA 
 series. However Saints Row does lack a few things such as the lack of different vehicles that you 
 are able to use and the game does feel somewhat simplistic and resembles GTA 3 more than anything. 
 Taking this into consideration this game is still fantastic. The explosions in this game are awesome 
 and crashing vehicles to see people fly through the windshild is a lot of fun. I reccomend this 
 game to anyone who's looking to tie them over till GTA 4 and anyone who just wants to pick up the 
 game for a few minutes to screw around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opticon12000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  GTA rip off? If so whats bad about that?
  
  Nothing really, GTA was awsome, and as you would expect, so is this. Although i have to say i do 
 enjoy this game more than GTA. The sheer amount of things to do on this game is mind blowing at 
 start with over 100 things to complete to get the full 100% completion mark. If your looking for 
 a game that gives out gamerpoints fast, this may not be your cup of tea. 10 points per time are 
 usualy handed out for about 2 hours play. Thats 24 side missions you get 10 points for after each 
 set of 24. These missons can be quite long and teadious at times but fun at others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RebelJPL
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  It really is true. Someone took damn near the same build that Rockstar is so famous for creating 
 and copied and pasted it into their own game. LOL That being said Saints Row is a fun game. Not 
 incredible by any means or inovative, but absolutely a good game. It is kinda like a GTA but just 
 the core stuff. Not a million side missions available, there are some but nothing awesome like 
 in the GTA series. The graphics are not bad, car look nice backgrounds are good. The create - a 
 - player isnt bad but nothing to write home about. Story was ok still kind of curious about the 
 end... The multiplayer was fun and well thought out but everytime I connected I had issues with 
 lag and dropped games but that may have just been me. Overall, a fun game, could have been better 
 and I cant wait 2 see if they come out with a sequel. If you are just going crazy for a game until 
 GTA4 then check this one out otherwise I'd just rent it, get the achievement and play multi then 
 take it back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: projthrilla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  this game got everything that grand theft auto got just like i want i love created my own person, 
 and the graphics are beautiful. The story makes plenty of sense it keeps you intensed and when 
 you beat the game you will always have side missions to do so it has great feedback. This game 
 has so many combinations of cloths and jewelery that will help you look like yourself on tv. Then 
 its the Xbox Live the death match and protect the pimp is so fun and making your own gang is the 
 best part it's the perfect way for your friends and you to show who the best team is. Anybody that 
 hates on this game dont know what a good game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_BlackBird_X
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best GTA like game i have ever played! I even think Rockstar has meet their match 
 with this game! I can't believe the amazing gameplay, and car control. The graphics are good but 
 not the best, but on the other hand easily takes out all the other games like it in that feild. 
 There are many things to do even before the missions. There is the punching people into ongoing 
 trafic, and from there the amazing phisics card sends the cpu flying into the air. I love this 
 game, sell your extra controler and buy it... lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinco360
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I was very skeptical about this game before it came out, shunning it for just being another average 
 GTA rip-off. But after I've spent enough time playing this title, I've learned to appreciate it. 
 Graphics: Nothing awe-inspiring here, but they are somehow able to keep you drawn to the game. 
 Generic explosions compared to GTA, but still very exciting. The character models are hideous, 
 but you really don't care about that once you start getting into the game.
  
  Sound: This game actually surprised me in this area, as I was expecting everything to be generic. 
 Realistic weapon firing and reloading sounds, the vehicles all have their own unique horn sounds 
 (lol) . But what really drew me into this area of the game was the amazing music line-up it offers. 
 You can get anything from Hip-Hop to Metal in this game, all authentics tracks.
  
  Gameplay: I think this is really where this game shines. I have to be completely honest here, this 
 is where the game most emulates GTA. THQ decided to have a game that's great at nothing, and turn 
 it into a game that's good at everything. Familiar control-scheme makes it easy to pick up and 
 play. Offers a wide array of activities to keep anyone busy for days!
  
  All-in-all, I have to say that this is probably the best GTA clone to date. That really doesn't 
 say much, but this is a must-have game for 360 owners that're tired of sports games and first-person 
 shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Mac1H
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Other than the improved XBOX 360 graphics, this game is a mediocre copy of GTA. The story is short, 
 and less thought out that a GTA story. The ending sucks, but I won't give it away. After the last 
 mission, the game ends and you have to load back. It makes the game feel like it isn't open ended. 
 The side missions are repetitive and boring. It feels like the side missions were just thrown in 
 to make the game longer. No motorcyvles, helicopters, planes, or tanks makes this game feel like 
 a shinier version of GTA 3 with a crappy story. A thing this game has that is original is the respect 
 bar ( you need to fill the bar to play a mission) . I think the respect bar is a dumb idea. Another 
 attempt to make the short story seem longer. Having to do side missions between missions takes 
 you away from the small amount that the story has to offer. Another thing that this game has that 
 is original is the ability to call the wheel woman to come pick you up and drive. She is an awful 
 drives, and she crashes into everything in the road. There is also an MP3 player, and you can go 
 to a story and but old rap songs, or stupid music that no one has ever heard before. I don't think 
 any of these ideas are great, and I don't think they improve the game. The online is pitiful at 
 best. Extremely laggy. It takes a long time to get into games, and you cannot even really play 
 because it is so laggy. You often cannot see enemies because it is so laggy, and due to lag it 
 becomes very hard to hit enemies because they seem to be teleporting around. I bought this game 
 and it was fun for about 2 days, and then it became very boring after you beat the story. I recomend 
 that you give it a rent, and save your $60 for a game with some replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevster34
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it's basically GTA all over again. Although, the next gen graphics, the level of customization, 
 great action, and well thought out storyline make Saints Row definately something to try.
  
  I'll admit that I don't (and never have) own a PS2, so I'm not very up-to-date with the latest, 
 greatest GTA games. But, I (like many of my ilk) have spent time playing them at friend's houses. 
 And on the surface Saints Row looks and plays just like most other gangsta games out there. In 
 fact, I was weary of even trying it at first. However, just like those other games Saints Row is 
 tough to stop playing once you start.
  
  The first thing I really enjoyed is the very detailed character customization. There's nothing 
 more satisfying than a little version of you walking around blowing sh#t up. Then being able to 
 pimp your character out with jewelery, clothes, hats, shoes, etc. adds another level of fun. Truth 
 be told, I wish I looked as good in real life as my character in his bright purple, double breasted 
 dress coat, cotton dress pants and matching Fedora.
  
  Another thing to look forward to is the car-jacking. There are a plethora of different cars that 
 can be stolen/bought/found in a parking lot; most can be pimped to the hilt with hoods, roofs, 
 rims, spoilers, etc. I found myself spending loads of time just hanging around the garage just 
 working on my cars. By the time I'd finished the story line, I had a fleet of beautiful purple 
 driving works of art ready to represent 3rd Street and the Saints. You can also recall any car 
 you own by walking into any car shop or any Crib's garage.
  
  The downside being that (unlike GTA) returning a car to your Crib's garage doesn't automatically 
 repair it. You would still have to go to the shop and pay a modest fee to have it repaired. I would 
 also think that there's a good chance of seeing new cars being released over XBox Live Marketplace.
 
  
  The story line is pretty much what you expect. Four rival gangs, the 3rd Street Saints, Los Carnales, 
 the Westside Rollerz, and the Vice Kings, battle for control over the fictional city of Stillwater. 
 After helping out the 3rd Street Saints boss, Julius, you're put through an initiation and eventually 
 welcomed in to the Saints. After which you start working towards the elimination of the other three 
 gangs. All the story lines are, for the most part, independent of each other. So you can choose 
 to finish off one gang completely before moving on, or work on all three equally. Of course, before 
 you can go off play missions you have to earn enough respect. There are several different activities 
 to help you do this, everything from Hijacking, Escort, Hitman, etc., even riding around and wiping 
 out rival gang members.
  
  All the activities are fun while still being challenging. I enjoyed some more than others, and 
 I'm sure each player will find the few that they're better at.
  
  The last thing I want to mention is the voice talent. There are a lot of heavy hitters that lend 
 their voices to this game, such as Michael Clarke Duncan, Keith David, David Carradine, Michael 
 Rapaport, and Mila Kunis. Its hard to find that many great actors in a big movie, much less a video 
 game. I'll admit that I didn't get into the game soundtrack much, but the Audio Player feature 
 lets you listen to playlists stored on your Xbox. You also can have it automatically pause your 
 music during in game videos.
  
  All in all, Saints Row is a great addition to the gangsta genre. Although, I'd recommend renting 
 it before spending 60 bucks. Chances are that it will end up in a best seller series eventually 
 and the price will drop. You can go work towards that 100% rating and unlocking all the Achievements 
 then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuffolazzo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row it's a good clone of the masterpiece GTA with few missings (no motorbikes, boats, planes 
 or helicopters) but with a good solid three parts story and many submissions of all sorts.
  The High definition graphic shows realistic environments (many districts varing from rich to poor 
 and industrial areas) and high detailed vehicles with only few bugs and glitches.
  The gameplay, like GTA, offers the possibility to choose what to do: to play a mission story against 
 the three main gangs of Stilwaters, to try the submission or just to wander around to look for 
 many secrets scattered around (CD and tag locations) that unlock prizes.
  Naturally the 360 achievements are good incentives to play the game over the main story.
  Unfortunately 
 the game doesn't surpass GTA, but offers many hours of exciting fun! ... and don't forget the multi-player!!!
 
  Try the Demo available on Xbox Live before purchasing the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TitusAndronicus
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 18, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row proves that originality may not always be necessary to make a fun game. Essentially, 
 this game takes the core of the Grand Theft Auto urban sandbox design, and tweaks it only in small 
 means. The end result is a fun game, albeit one with some problems.
  
  You play as a nameless thug who helps a local gang (the 3rd Street Saints) rise to prominence. 
 The premise is relatively simple - there are three other gangs that need to be brought down. Each 
 gang is fairly stereotypical, representing a Latino group of drug dealers, Caucasian import tuners, 
 and African-American hip-hop members.
  
  One thing you'll notice almost right away is the feel of the game. The game tries a little too 
 hard to be fairly hard-core gangster in its approach, almost to the point of laugability. In fact, 
 had the developer gone a little further, the game might have had an appeal to schlock-lovers everywhere. 
 But as it is, certain scenes in the game will just make you shake your head. This isn't a game 
 for kids - you'll run into all sorts of racial stereotypes, swearing, violence, and womanizing. 
 It wouldn't be surprising if this game ends up on a few political hit lists.
  
  What saves this game is the gameplay itself. The small tweaks to the basic GTA design make this 
 game an absolute delight to play. Driving and shooting have been nailed down to a science. The 
 various mini-games are all at least interesting, and some are very entertaining. The structure 
 of the mini-games ties in directly to the availability of the main story missions. Do enough side 
 games, and you'll be able to do the next story mission. It's a simple design, but it works well 
 in lengthening the admittedly short story.
  
  Graphically, the game is impressive, if not over-whelming. There is a nice day/night cycle, with 
 random weather effects added in. Cars tend to exist longer than in the GTA games, which shouldn't 
 be surprising given the hardware. The characters and cars look good, with big kudos going to the 
 car damage modelling. However, random graphical glitches and pop-up still happen, but are rare 
 enough that they usually aren't a problem.
  
  Saint's Row sounds pretty good as a whole. The voice acting is great, with such stars as David 
 Carradine (of Kill Bill and Death Race 2000 fame) adding their talents. Given the sometimes ridiculous 
 script they are given to work with, the actors do a wonderful job. The sound effects sound good 
 too, with satisfying explosions, booming gunshots, and nice car crunches. The music is a good blend 
 of lesser known talents, but it's nothing really too memorable.
  
  All in all, Saint's Row manages to become a good game in its own right, and one you should definitely 
 check into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaez
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Many games have tried to copy the GTA franchise and all have failed. I can truly say that Saints 
 Row is a cut above the rest. It may use the same formula as GTA but while playing this game I never 
 found myself thinking I wish i was playing GTA, because simply put Saints Row stands on it`s own 
 two feet. Anyone looking to purchase a good quality game need look no further than Saints Row. 
 There are many things it does better than GTA and there are things it didn`t do so well in. Overall 
 it`s a very enjoyable experience the dialog and voice acting is great, mission variety, car control, 
 targeting system is great. HAVE FUN!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deez_Nutz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Overall good and addicting, but no Gore (blowing heads off etc) , **** hoes, other transportation 
 (bikes etc) like GTA had. ALMOST THAT Grand Theft Autp FEELING!!!!! but not quite. it stands on 
 its own though with creating your own character and a lot of side missions to play with. sounds 
 and graphics are well done. The sad things are there are hoes on the street but you cant pick them 
 up, no gore just all blood when u shoot people, and no bikes helicopters and boats. and hey its 
 gotta be a hella good game cuz i just bought a 360 for it. chee waiting for the playstationg 3 
 baby!!!!! GTA 4 07! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_mgoblue
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoy action games with story lines, then you will really enjoy Saints Row. Saints Row plays 
 nearly identical to Grand Theft Auto, which is a very good thing. The voice actors of Saints Row 
 are professional actors who do an EXCELLENT job of making you feel like a part of the story. The 
 5.1 digital sound is incredible in Saints Row, and when you see the games graphics, they look very 
 impressive, especially on an HDTV. The game controls ver nicely, too. If you are familar with Grand 
 Theft Auto, you will instantly be familar with Saints Row. I definitely recommend Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Loofty1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is a free roaming world filled with crime and voliance, and its awesome . Great graphics, 
 lots of weapons, tons of cars, loads of different missions including my favorite, the insurance 
 fraud missions, three different gangs to go up against, and quite an intresting storyline. The 
 charactor you play is basicly mute (like the main charactor of GTA3) , so the people around you 
 do the talking for you, and they do a pretty good job with the voiceovers. Also like in GTA is 
 the crude humor ( call up Lik A Chik Chicken, it's hilarious) , There are cheats in Saint's Row 
 but instead of just pressing a set of buttons you dial a number on your cellphone. As you press 
 forward farther into the game you get different turfs (not sure what to call them so just go with 
 me) . The more of these turfs the more money you get daily. The missions themselfs can range from 
 fun to annoying. Also the fact that you need to earn Respect before you can take on these missions 
 can ger a little irritating. How you gain respect is up to you, either hold men or women hostage 
 in cars, or hold up your local brown baggers, it dosen't matter as long as you get respect. After 
 you do a mission, you get money and well respect. The clothes you have on also make a difference 
 in how much respect you gain. Allthough there are a lot of good things about Saint's Row there 
 are some bad things. There are some glitches within the game, and the multiplayer isn't as awesome 
 as you may have thought, you might not know when your getting shot (play it for a few hours and 
 you might know what i mean) . Saint's Row is an awesome game that is a great game for the Xbox360 
 collection and definatly worth the $59.97 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kpgamer6144
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  It is incredible that someone has finally been able to come up to par with the Grand Theft Auto 
 series. While Saint's Row gets plenty (and I mean PLENTY) of originality points for some of their 
 ideas, there are other instances where you say things like: where are the motorcycles?! but enough 
 of the whining and lets move on. On the plus side, Saints Row definitely gets rid of one of GTA's 
 classic sins: clunky and repetitive graphics. ignoring the fact that it is on a 360, the game is 
 definitely easy to look at, even if stillwater is suprisingly swarming with fat hookers. The gameplay 
 is also as addicting as the classic GTA, if not a little more entertaining on some parts. for one, 
 small tidbits such as being able to actually call places like lik-a-chicks is absolutely hilarious, 
 even though the overall theme of the game is a little more serious than the GTA series. controls 
 are smooth and the new weapon selection is easy to work with. I'm a little mixed on the missions. 
 while some are typical and tedious like snatch (or grab the hooker) , others can almost be the entire 
 reason why some play, such as insurance fraud (where you actually get paid to run into oncoming 
 traffic, glee!) The sound is kind of half and half. while the pedestrians' lines are both forgetful 
 and incredibly lame, the main characters' voices are excellent (anyone notice meg from family guy 
 and the arbiter from halo 2?) . the music isn't great, but at least they let you use your own music 
 without having to go to the dashboard pause screen. and of course, let's not forget ragdoll physics. 
 anything involving flying ragdolls and classical music is definitely funny in my book.
  
  Now for the negative side. Personally, I don't have a problem with Saint's Row taking San Andreas' 
 ghetto theme and maximizing it tenfold (even if it gets a little irritating) . And while the game 
 has it's definite good points, the story is easy to get through. the story is split up into the 
 order of gangs (3) you take over, you can choose what order it goes in, but it ends in quick succesion 
 unless you have a hard time taking of strongholds. and because of how difficult it is to collect 
 money (by completing activities or by completing activities to get enough respect to complete missions 
 for money) , it is also hard to get enough ammo to go on that killing spree everyone usually does 
 in the game for fun (you could use cheats, but it turns off the achievements too, so what's the 
 fun in that?) . I'm also not a fan of having to gain respect to complete missions, even though it 
 encourages you to complete activities in the game. the script of the game isn't as funny as I had 
 hoped, but it is entertaining enough for you to keep playing. there are also the occasions where 
 Saint's Row decided to ignore some of GTA's recent developments. then again, when's a poor kid 
 from the ghetto ever gonna get his hands on a helicopter?
  
  last and quite possibly the biggest problem with the game is the multiplayer. while the gameplay 
 itself is fun, it is riddled with too many technical malfunctions and glitches to be considered 
 worthwhile. Not only is the waiting time between games unacceptable (my shortest wait was three 
 minutes) the game has such lag issues, you wouldn't know the game was over until the player you've 
 been shooting at for ten minutes has suddenly run you over with a car that was located on the opposite 
 side of the map. Also, player customization in multiplayer is good when it comes to giving your 
 avatar that personal touch, if you have the money that is. normally it wouldn't be a problem. however, 
 in order to get the money, you have to win, get multi-kills, killing sprees. all of which surmount 
 to about fifty dollars each. where the best clothing in the game range above 1000 dollars. hope 
 you don't mind running around naked for a few games...
  
  Overall, this is definitely one of the first must-have games for the 360 to date, next to Dead 
 Rising. It is something you can cling on until a better 360 game comes out which from playing this 
 game, won't happen for quite some time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2DragonZ
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  There is no way to talk about this game without relateing to the GTA series. I have to admit it's 
 a beefed-up version of GTA for next generation. The development team at Volition certainly does 
 a good job improving many aspects of the GTA series. There are many good aspects of the game from 
 creating your own character to online gang wars. I really appreciate the deep character creation 
 feature of the game. And also being able to spend drug money on platinum watches and exotic cars 
 is very satisfying. Small touches like defending your own turfs and wearing gang color for stats 
 boost all really add the game's overall presentation. Now here comes the bad parts of the game. 
 One thing that bothers me the most is forcing players to take side missions to gain enough respects 
 in order to take on main missions. This is just wrong!! Side missions should be there for players 
 who wanted to spend some time away from the main story route. It gets to a point where if I want 
 to finish the game, I am forced to take tons of side missions, which are not interesting at all. 
 This kind of gameplay disturnbs the story flow and it's the main reason that I've stopped playing 
 the game. Some minor issues like stupid AI of police cuts down lots of fun as well. You can wage 
 a war at police for hours and you won't see SWATs come, what's the fun in that?
  
  With some small tweaks in game design, this game could well be a contender against GTA, but it 
 failed at adding those minor gameplay tweaks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HottAsFire
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game just looked like an online version of GTA but i thought, what the hell, I'll pick it 
 up because GTA was a great game. I popped this game in for the first time and was astonished.
 
  Halo 2 used to be my favorite by far but since I got Saints Row, I haven't touched Halo 2 once. 
 This is my favorite game of all time and I can't stop playing it.
  
  Graphics are incredible
  Story is intense and goes balls deep into The Row and its characters
 
  In-game soundtrack could be better, not a fan of rap myself so I can't say I liked it
  Replay value on this is cranked up with the online play, it is a bit laggy at times but it's worth 
 it.
  Game is very challenging and great fun for hours, I myself am at 90% completion on the game and 
 am still workin to finish it.
  
  Recommended for ANY game fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FossilMan23
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I never really cared for this game the entire time it was being produced until a few days ago when 
 I got bored of Oblivion, so I went and picked it up. BTW since this is so imporant, I never played 
 a GTA game other than just freeroaming at a friends house.
  
  Gameplay - This is the most solid part of the game. It plays just like a hitman game and actually 
 takes some skill to shoot your gun. Even though I found the game to be a bit too easy. The driving 
 can be a little odd with the controlls while your shooting, but it can be mastered. THERE ARE A 
 FEW CONTROL SETUPS ALSO thought I'd add that.
  
  Graphics - eh. they are alright considering the size but there are noticable drops in framerate 
 and this game doesn't feature any blood.. well a little but it sucks. On the other hand the ragdoll 
 and explosions are very fun too look at.
  
  Sound - Great sounding game but the voice acting lacks enough depth to actually make me feel like 
 a thug. The guns and explosions and radiostations are great though.
  
  Value - Seems like there is alot of stuff too do in this game I'm only 11% complete and I've been 
 playing for hours doing the Drug Trafficing which I find to be a ton of fun. The multiplayer lacks 
 depth but is a nice addition. But if you are in desprate need of a multiplayer game, like me, this 
 will do the trick.
  
  Overall- I'm very happy with this game and I think it's definately worth the money. Hope this helps, 
 sorry I couldn't compare anything to GTA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colonel_Worr
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. Many people would say what a ripoff! it is GTA!! and they are pretty much right. 
 It is a GTA ripoff, but it is a great GTA ripoff. With the last GTA being made a year ago, and 
 the next being made in another year, it fills in that time gap with insane amounts of fun. I especially 
 loved the amount of modifying for the cars, there is sooo much of it! The voices were great, the 
 gameplay was great, physics were great. The only thing bad I can say about it is that the main 
 missions were a bit too easy, and the weapon cycling was not so hot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WookieMaster
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing games since I was 16. I am now 40! This means two things. One, I am a sad old 
 man who still loves to play games and I have some experience. This is the first review I have ever 
 submitted. Saints Row, the game in question was eagerly awaited by many, including myself. Having 
 been a fan of the GTA series, but also having been anoyed by certain limitations of that series, 
 I was hoping that this title would provide the slick gaming we have been promsed on the XB 360. 
 When you pay this amount of money for a game, in my book, it has to be very good to deserve the 
 buy. Unfortunately, there is more hype than substance here, although there are many redeeming features 
 that could have resulted in a fantastic leap forward in gaming. Not so here, though. The idea is 
 good enough. A GTA style game, with better graphics, a large map and the capability of having a 
 lot going on without slowing the system down. The AI of the opposition is generally good. I like 
 the way that the guy you are trying to kill, will use a vehicle to cover him / herself from your 
 fire. I like the way that multiple targets will work together. The controls are adequate to good. 
 There is only one camera angle, which needs a little adjusting at times with your right stick to 
 swing around quickly when you need to see what is going on in a hurry. The driving is ok. I actually 
 prefer the GTA driving physics, as I do the game as a whole. Graphics do not make a game, gameplay 
 makes a game (Pro Evolution being the finest example I can think of to that statement) . The language 
 in this game is shameful. It makes me wonder if the developement team actually have much of a vocabulary 
 at all, as using the F word as much as it is used here is not clever, it does not add to the game. 
 It shows a distinct lack of inginuaty. Total overkill on the language. Having spent a deal of time 
 on XB Live, perhaps this is the kind of content that game players want? I am certainly not a prude, 
 but where do we actually go from here? Perhaps a gardening game where we go and purchase muddy 
 fork and hoes to use on our virtual world? There is nowhere lower to go, as there is no language. 
 There is prurely a constant stream of the same boring cussing, F ing etc etc from the moment you 
 turn on. Pitty, as I would like more humour. I would like some depth in the characters. This is 
 just trying to shock and titalate. It will work for the young, who may think that it is cool, but 
 you know what... after the first couple of hundred cusses, it really does make you crave something 
 a little more... well, more of something else. Tedious tedious tedious. The cars are good. The effects 
 are brilliant at times. The missions are alright two. I particularly liked being closed in on by 
 30 of an opposing gang, whilst being trapped in a building with a sniper rifle. The map is large. 
 The cut scenes are done well, some nice voice talent in there, but not much of a script to work 
 with (back to the langauge problem!) On line is a joke. Sitting waiting for a match for 5 minutes 
 is not my idea of fun, especially when you do manage to connect, the online games do not offer 
 the same kind of action you can get off line. Lag is an issue, but so is the kind of person who 
 seems to enjoy this game. It is hard to get matched up with a serious gamer. But, this is a problem 
 with XB live in general. Personally, I prefer San Andrea. I will be sticking this one back on Ebay 
 and probably recoup my buy price and get something else. I am glad I did not go out on the release 
 day and spend &pound;50 on this game. It is a title that will do well, as the thirsty 360 owners 
 have not had much to swallow since launch, apart from the hefty price tags and the dissapointment 
 of it all. Fortunately, there are some more promising titles coming and my advice is to keep hold 
 of your green and spend it something more worth while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xS3phir0thx
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off saying this is a GTA clone, it just happens to be better than GTA.
  If you have played a GTA game you know the genre, but this game adds to it with Character Customization, 
 Multiplayer, Better Car Customization, a better story line, Xbox Live Marketplace, a better cheat 
 system, ability to answer the phone in the car, you can call people on your phone to help you are 
 just for funny messages, and the achievement system which makes every game better in my opinion. 
 Only reason i didn't give it a 10 is bc of the booger song...*adds Biz Markie to People to Kill 
 list*... that and the lag problem but thats getting fixed, so its nothing permanent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unkkanny
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  The game does copy the hell outta GTA but it does things that GTA couldnt do just becuase of the 
 higher power of the system. kinda by default. The car physics... the explosions... the interaction 
 with objects.... The aming system... the conrol of the character.... the create a character. The game 
 is pretty polished and the audio is great. I like the way you can acually LOSE THE COPS!!!!! that 
 was the one thing about GTA that pissed me off.. you can not lose the cops. The garage thing is 
 kinda fake in ROW but you can put a bunch of cars in your garage. For some that is great... for 
 me its kinda unrealistic but hey... its a video game. The side missions are incredible.... the mayhem 
 games are too much fun.. you get unlimited ammo for that mission until you pass it or you die. 
 There are also mission for assasinations and stealing cars. These are tough as hell cause they 
 dont really tell you were to go... you get a general idea of where to go and look or the kill or 
 steal the car .. it keeps you busy while you play... the good thing about it is... you can set it 
 up on your HUD while your doing the main mission. The thing that I really love about this game 
 is the way you can use your cell phone to dial up your people. you can dial up you wheel woman 
 she will bring you a car no matter what time of day it is and not only will she bring the car but 
 she will always drive so you do your damage hanging out of the window with your guns. i used that 
 one time when I was taking on the gang that weres blue.. (they got hooked up japanese cars) it got 
 outta hand and i didnt have anymore guns... I called her up.. about 5 seconds later she turns the 
 corner guns a blazin' and shooting at cops and the gang.. parks in front of me... I get in and we 
 take off... that right there is incredible stuff in a video game. 5 seconds is fast but.... its only 
 a video game. The other great thing about the game is the ability to layer your clothing. You can 
 put on a jacket over your Jersey which is over your T-shirt. Everything isnt great in the game. 
 When you get into a car, your character sits down reaches over and closes the door... when he gets 
 out of the car he doesnt close the door... the guy just stands there... after you walk away the door 
 gets closed by a ghost or some form of telekenisis that your character has. Thats looks stupid... when 
 you drive you can control the speed of the car... its not everytime you wanna be blazin through 
 the street.. sometimes you want to drive slow to take in the scene or look for the person you wanna 
 kill. I know you can just tap the button but.... this is next gen... I shouldnt have to do that when 
 GTA in last gen has it. Overall this game is a must have for GTA fans, xbox 360 owners and people 
 who need that fix till GTA 4 comes out. IF your a casual gamer or some sort of square.... leave 
 this game alone becuase I havent heard that many curse words in any Game or Movie at that. This 
 game is Mature rated to the 10th power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RavenElite
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  This game is all around amazing. Very grand theft auto-ish at first, but when you really get into 
 it, you really feel the difference. A good story, fun and exciting missions. and the side games 
 are also very fun. you will spend alot of time just playing around. the level isnt as big as GTA, 
 but everything about it is amazing. anyone who loves a good open game, with lots of surprises, 
 and amazing gameplay will just fall inlove with this one. Best explosions i have seen to date, 
 the doors fly off, metal peices fly everywhere, and the actual fire is just amazing.
  if you cant afford to buy this game, rent it. the demo doesnt give it as much as it deserves. Pick 
 it up!
  
  The multiplayer is also very fun. you can get gangs of friends togeather and play against other 
 gangs in an assortment of match types. Protect The Pimp is by far the most fun for a smaller ground, 
 1 pimp, and how ever many protectors.. everyone has guns but pimp, BUT the pimp gets his pimp hand, 
 which is a one hit kill on contact. players must escort their pimp to the exit before time runs 
 out.
  for a bigger party, blinged out ride, is a fave. make money, pimp out your car, and try to stop 
 your enemy from doing the same. lots of fun. deffidently check this game out, you will NOT be disappointed.
 
  thanks!
  Nolan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paki123
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 8:45 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I thought of it the same way I think of all GTA clones.... this 
 must be total CRAP. But then I started looking into the game, and reading some articles about it, 
 and it turned out that the game actually had potential. Because of this, I decided to purchase 
 it. That was the best game decision I have EVER made for my Xbox 360. First, let me say that this 
 game is an EXACT clone of GTA. The controls are the same, the interface is the same, EVERYTING 
 is just a carbon copy from GTA. But in addition, this game adds some awesome features, and fixes 
 almost all of GTA's problems.
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  GTA wasn't known for awesome graphics, however this game not only beats GTA, but it beats almost 
 every other Xbox 360 game out there. Shadowing is in real time with great resolution (you can even 
 see the shadow of the spinners on your car spinning) , the cars reflect, the car damage models are 
 amazingly detailed, and the character models rock. The game pulls off a steady framerate. Everything 
 in the graphics department is perfect except some minor screen tearing, however it is barley noticible.
 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  This game picks up on every GTA feature (good or bad) , and makes it ROCK. They got rid of taxi 
 and police missions, and added a TON of awesome side activities such as insurance fraud, where 
 you must get hit by passing cars to earn a set amount of money, and you receive bonuses if there 
 are witnesses. There are also about 10 other activities, all which are extremely fun and addicting. 
 You will be able to complete this game rather quickly compared to GTA: SAs' missions, however I 
 prefer these missions quite a bit, they are a great mix of driving, killing, sneaking, just like 
 GTA's but better. And the aiming interface is EXCELLENT. It is great fun to try and get all the 
 acheivments (many of them are 10 or 20 points each, so there are TONS of them to get) . Another 
 problem solved from GTA is the money problem. In this game, money actialy means something... and 
 you don't lose it when you die (only a few hundred dollars) . Its hard to come by, and all guns 
 you use must be purchased (or taken off people you kill)
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Of course this game stole the radio from GTA, and I must say, while all the songs will be songs 
 you have never heard before, many of them are great. Also, the talk radio is hilarious, and the 
 commercials are even better than GTA's. My complaint here is that the game just uses the f-bomb 
 way too much, and tries to add some nasty humor. For a while its funny, but enough is enough.
 
  
  Multiplayer: 8/10
  I will appluad that this game did multiplayer. Its the first of this genre to do so. And for the 
 most part it is pretty solid. But don't be expecting like I was, which was for thousands of people 
 to able to go into the city and cause total mayham with each other, because that isn't in there. 
 Instead, there are a bunch of semi-fun games in a bunch of terribly rendered stadiums. Don't get 
 me wrong, this multiplayer is very fun and will be addicting for a long while, but I think it could 
 have been done better. The optimatch system rocks though, it is much like Halo 2's macthmaking 
 system, choosing your teamates and opponets for you, based upon the level.
  
  Conclusion
  So adding up all my scores, it turns out to be 36/40, which is an even 9. I'd say overall impression 
 you will get from this game is around a 9. Although it is huge, and hugely fun, it is not quite 
 perfect. It still has a FEW of GTA's flaws, and the nasty humor and constant f-bombs will leave 
 some disgusted. This game is really pushing it for an M rated game. As for the partial nudity that 
 is listed on the box, all that is is a ladies butt, nothing to hide from your parents. I'd highly 
 recommend that you purchase this game instead of rent... the multiplayer will keep you going for 
 a long time after you beat the campaign. And even if you decide not to get this game, you should 
 deeply cherish it, because trust me, Rockstar is going to learn a LOT from this game and it will 
 probably show in their next GTA game due October 2007.
  
  Reviewer's Score: 9/10, Originally Posted: 08/31/06 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evergrim
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  I'm not going to bother to compare Saint's Row to the GTA-series because everyone already knows 
 how it all connects (GTA sold really well so here's a carbon copy of that) .
  The beginning the game starts out quite overwhelming. You have a whole metropolis to explore complete 
 with shops, activities, missions, and a wide variety of cars. You begin to earn some respect to 
 unlock the next mission, you complete the mission to earn cash and to take over a piece of the 
 city. That's the setup for the game, but how well does Saint's row pull it off?
  
  Let me just say this straight so there's no misunderstanding - Saint's Row is extremely action-centered. 
 As I mentioned there's a whole town to explore, but nothing to find more than the things you already 
 knew was there (the Map tells you everything) .
  Instead you are given all means to drive really fast and wreak havoc on the town of Stillwater. 
 This is what Saint's Row do really well and really beautifully. In true Michael Bay fashion cars 
 gets launched in the air and explodes into burning pieces. Collisions are devastating and car chases 
 are filled with adrenaline.
  
  There are three major enemy factions with stand-alone campaigns in the game. You slowly start to 
 chew one mission after another. Sadly, one third into the game you begin to understand how the 
 rest of the game will play out.
  The missions lacks of innovation and more than often evolve around shooting hordes of enemies or 
 driving away from hordes of enemies.
  Saint's Row starts out good but soon gets tiresome and predictable. There's a lot to do - but that's 
 not enough for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_Zdar
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The game online is fun for its new creative idea and new multplayer modes that have not been seen 
 before in the GTA series. They should have spent more time on the multiplayer before they released 
 it. As most games it has started out very buggy to the point that people get kicked from games 
 all the time. Games will start even if there is horrible lag. and you cant see your enemy. Ranks 
 dont matter because people can cheat by teleporting around and apper in certain spots. It has gotten 
 so bad that ranked gangs on the list can cheat there way to the top buy learning all the glitch 
 patterns. As soon as they release the patch it will be fine, but they dont even have a release 
 date for the patch. If they do release the patch they need to reset the gangs ranks back to 0-0 
 or the game will lose its appeal fast. Overall i would recommend you to try both the single player 
 and the multiplayer action because when it does work perfectly it will be amazing.
  
  Also I am owner of my own gang [GSIDE] ZDARSKY and if you want to try out send me a message and 
 were are always recruiting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msb2009
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  This game for one is better than any Grand Theft Auto game. First, you can create your onw appearance 
 and play over XBOX live. Second, is just wow. the physics in this game are great. When you ram 
 someone with a car, there body goes limp, and it's just that cool. The explosions look really cool, 
 let's say I shoot a rocket at a car, gorgeous graphics. You health in this game constanly re-heals 
 too, which is a plus. While playing this game, you can get sucked in for hours at a time. Look 
 at a clock, 4:45 pm, the next time you look at a clock, 5:54 am. If you are a fan of the GTA series 
 and looking for something new, try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_paus
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 16, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a very good game, if you like Grand Theft Auto Series then you'll love this game, 
 it's got an incredible gameplay, you just can't stop playin' it, I'd love to give it a 10, but 
 I feel they could make a little bit more with the graphics, and I hope Volition can make another 
 one, with some other things missing, like airplanes and boats and things like that. I liked pretty 
 much the storyline, and the fact that all the gangs are independent, you can go and finish Los 
 Carnales, and then start with the Vice Kings, it's amazing. But beyond that, I highly recommend 
 this game, and if you don't have it yet, what the hell you waiting for?!?!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vinnie222
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  In many respects saints row is a great game. holding up stores, doing all the fun side missions, 
 online play, and the best graphics ever in an open-ended game. Even with such good things there 
 are simple things that could have been added to make the game an exclent game. The addition of 
 helicoptors, boats, or even motorcycles would have brought the game to an all new level. Also while 
 there is online play and it is fun there is a lack of maps and you would expect some kind of 2 
 player freeroam on xbox live which was what i was looking forward to. any of those things could 
 have made this game better than it was but oh well, we can look for patches i guess.
  
  Now for the review:
  
  SOUND: 8/10
  The sound is great the cars sputter when the take enough 
 damage. each car sounds different. guns sound great, and voice acting is spot on. Also bubba the 
 love sponge (From Howard Stern) has his own radio station. The only thing that keeps the sound 
 from being a perfect 10 is the lack of good radio.
  
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  Great. The cars look beatful, the charter models are gourgous though some look better done than 
 others. The city looks great too.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 8.5/10
  This game has a great story line, great side missions, fun gunplay, and good races. But it is all 
 brought down by the lack of other vechials than cars that is all it needed to give the game more 
 replay value because as it standt now it get repetive with the same thing over and over
  
  TOTAL: 8.5
  Good game with a compleing story line. top noch graphics, good sound, and great gameplay 
 but its just missing some key things that could have made this game one of the true gta killers 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worsley_ngw
Rating: 5.2
Date: Sep 16, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  This game was a rip off very few add-ons which is what would have made the game different from 
 GTA. They took the Gang wars from San Andreas and put a story to it. The glitches is what killed 
 it for me especially when you sit there and a taxi dissapears when your about to hijack it, or 
 when you want to do a hostage run and the hostage dissapear before you can hit the hostage button. 
 It looks like you put a rushed GTA on the 360 and said this will do when they could do so much 
 more with it. Also its very repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniacgamer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 16, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I'll just get straight to the point this is a GTA rip off but despite that its still a good game. 
 If you have played a GTA before this game gets old pretty quick. Although it does have its good 
 points obviously the graphics are one of them. If your playing on a HD t. v. this game looks astounding 
 and if your not well... It looks like a suped up PS2 game. The controls are good exept for when 
 your driving it takes a little while to get used to shooting and driving at the same time but the 
 controls are basically the same as any GTA. As another cool addition they added a couple little 
 things that are just nice to have, say you get stuck in the water well you can just warp to shore 
 without having to swim. This is a GTA rip off but they did a good job of ripping it off and I reccomend 
 this game if you are a fan of GTA or any game like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow2k6
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 16, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a free-roaming game where you have your own character, in which you customize. Your 
 character eventually joins the 3rd St. Saints which is one of the gangs in the city of Stilwater. 
 The 3rd St. Saints main objective is to get rid of the other gangs in Stilwater which include Vice 
 Kings, Westside Rollaz, and Los Carnales. The Vice Kings is a gang operated by Benjamin King and 
 he trys to keep things organized by paying off the cops which is why when you first start the game 
 you'll figure out the cops help the Vice Kings at times. Their color is yellow so if you see a 
 group of people in yellow clothing or in yellow cars its mostly likely the Vice Kings. Westside 
 Rollaz is pretty much a bunch of people from the suburbs who watched a little to many street racing 
 movies. The Westside Rollaz color is blue and they usually drive cars that have metalic blue color. 
 Los Carnales or The Carnales is a gang runned by the Carnales brothers. The Carnales is basically 
 like the mafia from GTA 3 since they are more about organize crime then the other gangs. Their 
 color is red and their cars usually have a classic theme to them. A lot of things in Saints Row 
 are better then in Grand Theft Auto for example the aiming system which instead of a lock on system 
 is more of a First-Person Shooter kind of Aiming. Its also very simple to perform drive bys. In 
 Saints Row there is very detailed customization. You can choose your characters race, hair color, 
 facial hair, clothing, jewelery, tattoos, etc. The music in Saints Row is moderate it isn't great 
 but it isn't bad either. Theres some stations that are good but some that are just bad. You can 
 also customize a car, it isn't as detailed as in Need for Speed but for a free-roaming GTA style 
 kind of game its pretty detailed. You can change the body kits, bumpers, spoilers, colors, rims, 
 hoods, grills. windows, vinyls, etc.
  
  Online Multiplayer is pretty good with a wide variety of multiplayer gametypes like Gangsta Brawl, 
 Team Gangsta Brawl, Protect Da Pimp, Blinged out Ride, Big Ass Chains, and Team Big Ass Chains. 
 You also have a customized character for online which is totally different from your character 
 from the single player. Its sometimes hard to know if someone is shooting at you though since only 
 a red arrow shows up and the controller doesn't rumble when you get shot at. Overall its the first 
 attempt at online multiplayer for a open-ended GTA style game so its still good.
  
  Overall, Saints Row is a very good game and it stands out on its on and definetely not a GTA Clone 
 and even if it is, its the best GTA Clone yet since it comes very close to Grand Theft Auto. If 
 you like the Grand Theft Auto games you'll like Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luisnunezjr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 3:48 am PT
Review:  Everytime i crash head on with another vehicle at a high rate of speed and watch the driver of 
 the other vehicle fly through his windshield i pause the game and laugh my sick ass off. It is 
 small attention to details like this one that make this game a great game. The game we have all 
 grown to love, Grand Theft Auto, and spawned its own Damien in the form of Saints Row. Although 
 not mafia based in any way, the ground rules are still there... Do what you want when you want and 
 how ever you want to do it. Open Ended Gameplay is the key idea here, and not a very new concept 
 to many of us, as more and more games that are being put out are in one way or the other, employing 
 this concept into their marketing stragety. Saints Row makes it work. You will obiviously notice 
 the graphics first and foremost. I do not have an HDTV but even with a regular television you will 
 notice how crisp everything is. In addition to graphics the game runs on the Havoc physics, or 
 ragdoll physics engine, so there is alot of funny stuff that happens, lets say when you hit a mail 
 box and it hits a bunch of pedestrians, or when you are fighting rival gang members and blow up 
 a car that lands on top of them, etc.
  When you begin the game you will create your gangster. It is possible, if you are very nit-picky, 
 to spend over an hour perfecting your character. I have seen pics from other users here on gamespot 
 that have created Blade and Scarface! If you an RPG fan like i am, and a total Oblivion addict 
 like me, you will be tempted to create your gangster Dark Elf. Anyway, after that process is over, 
 you go into the Being a Gangster 101 tutorial, and after that you are on your own to take over 
 the Row. I think the unique feature of gaining enough respect before tackling story missions is 
 a great idea, because it forces the players to engage in extracurricular activities that the game 
 provides. But these activities are fun to play, so you do not end up pissed that you have to do 
 them. Respect can be earned in other ways too though, like by taking a hostage, or defending your 
 territory from a rival gang invasion.
  The activities i mentioned are all alot of fun. You can escort hookers to turn tricks all while 
 avoiding the papparazzi, or you can kill pimps and take their hoes, or you can jump in front of 
 traffic and make fake insurance claims for top dollar!!! The game is alot of fun, believe me, you 
 will feel great after holding up the gun store with the same gun you just bought. Or at night you 
 can break in certain locations and after a little minigame break into a safe and hustle the merchandise 
 over to the pawn shop! There are more activities to do, but you will have to get the game to see 
 what they are. Well we covered grahics and activities, what is next? Lets talk cars. There are 
 alot of cars in this game. At this time i do not know the exact number but i am sure with little 
 help you can check a forum and figure how much. They are easy to drive, and should take little 
 time accustoming yourself to them. Of course they all drive as expected, the SUVs drive like SUVs, 
 and the Sports Cars like Sports Cars... but it is, at least to me, the ability to do Drive-Bys, 
 that get me, i feel it is alot easier than GTA, and alot more realistic since you have to aim on 
 your own, others may feel differently. It is alot of fun also to see the A. I at work. If you have 
 a few homies in the car with you and you fire at anything, or someone fires at you, they will poke 
 out the windows and commence firing upon your attacker, and not just firing in the general direction, 
 YOU WILL SEE RESULTS!!! These guys have better aiming than your average run-of-the-mill NPC! Something 
 you will like about this game is that no matter how many wanted stars you have, it is possible 
 to outrun the cops and watch your wanted meter go down, unlike GTA where you had to search for 
 those damn stars! However there are things you can do if you do not feel like driving around the 
 city, like go to your local Forgive and Forget and buy your way out of Nottoriety, or the obvious, 
 change clothes, plastic surgery, etc. You will notice though that the police are very forgiving 
 and most of the time a war between your gang and the police can last a long time! OH YEAH I ALMOST 
 FORGOT!!! Your life regenerates on it own if you are out of harm's way long enough! It makes the 
 game a little easier, but not by much. It isn't an overly difficult game, though, which is fine 
 cause it makes it fun. My music review is short and sweet. I personally do not think it is the 
 greatest soundtrack. I wish that i could play my own music, and unless i am doing something wrong, 
 you are stuck with the music Volition added. It isn't horrible, but i don't digg on it very much. 
 Not all of it is bad, but seriously, why is there a classical music channel? Well this paragraph 
 i want to focus on a few things that may or may not annoy you about the game, but it won't be long, 
 because the game doesn't have many things that i found wrong with it. First i miss the airplanes 
 and choppers and the ability to parachute out of them from GTA3. In addition to that, i miss the 
 crotch rockets. Those are the things i miss the most, but also there are no water vehicles and 
 so far i have not found a way to rig a car bomb! There is no point system and with that no insane 
 stunts for money. There is still the search for sixty cds that give you goodies though, you can 
 spend time looking for all of them as well as tagg locations for you too find and spray paint. 
 There also is not as much blood as i would have hoped there to be. At the risk of sounding sadistic, 
 i never liked games that involved shooting people that produced no blood. In Conclusion, I find 
 that this game is alot of fun, definitely a buy and not a rent. Of course it isn't for everyone 
 and if you do not get into senseless gang violence and GTA style gameplay then obviously this game 
 isn't for you, for everyone else, however, this should feel right at home. I am sure i might have 
 missed some things to point out, but if this isn't enough to get you going to buy the game then 
 i do not know what else to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-b-o-X
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  you know why im here and what im going to be talking about and let me just say the good ol people 
 of gamespot got it all wrong everything bad they said about this game is a sham. The presentation 
 is the 'bees knees' it will blow your socks off , further more the car and weapon selection has 
 got so much detail its like they slapped you on the game. And if you need anymore convincing just 
 look in the sky you can see the stars eventually then look back on your t. v screen and you'll see 
 them there , the celebrity voices you will be able to recognise will be coming from left right 
 and centre. Then we get to the music CHOICES or what u can be a classical man , hip-hop junkie or 
 just the regular pop-head and they've got it , they really nailed it on the head when it came to 
 the music and sound layouts. the plot to the game is in its own right very good why i say that is 
 because to fully sympotyhes with the games storyline you would ave to be a full-on criminal and 
 most of them are in state-pen for stuff on this game , but never the less you start off as a nobody 
 with a prostitute claiming ' she will show you a good time' and u get caught up in a gang feud 
 between ' the blues and the yellows' and they all either get killed or very VERY hurt as for you 
 your just hurt and you get carried off by the gang leader of the 'purple team' julius and you basically 
 sign up with pen and paper. So you catch my drift when i say the basic-layout of the game and how 
 well i think personally the game has gone. but if i do say so my-self i think it does show signs 
 of GTA but this is a cracking game hoping for a second as will xbox will there profit margin shooting 
 for this game thanks for readin see ya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacksabbathjd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  story modes great all kinds of stuff to do rob stores hold people hostage but mutiplyer is one 
 of the most lage games i have pllayed hopefully they can fix that with a pach or something but 
 other then lag mutiplayer is qiet fun. a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 aa a a a aa a a a aa a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzultimate3134
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  Saints row, what can i say i cant really say much wrong about it. the graphix are really good , 
 gameplay and tilt the best since gta sa and it does go for longer than gta sa. Just awesome the 
 gangland battles are awesome all the missions are really good. i remember playing gta and the only 
 thing i did not like was the graphix, with this game now that the graphix are sorted the only thing 
 i dont likeis this that the only thing you can drive is a car. seriously that is the only thing 
 i dont like in the game everything else is awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sircalmar
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row (for the one of you that hasn't heard about it) is the latest in a long line of GTA 
 style games. Most of these games fall flat, and leave that nasty aftertaste in your mouth. Saint's 
 Row however, doesn't do this. While it is nothing terribly original, the game play is fun, challenging 
 without being overwhelming, and it has a decent story.
  The voice acting is pretty good, even if there are a few more F bombs and the like than is appropriate 
 for a younger audience (the M is well earned) .
  Hundreds of activities in addition to the main storyline will keep you occupied for well more than 
 the 40+ hours.
  
  Gameplay - The controls are natural, and having the ability to have npc's with guns in your car 
 make it a lot more fun.
  
  Graphics - Not cutting edge, but nice. The character customization is amazing, along with some 
 of the car pain colors.
  
  Sound - A nice selection of music on the stations, and lots more that you can buy in game with 
 in game cash. The general sounds and comments by the characters are appropriate and funny.
  
  Value - If you want a game that's just plain fun and you are an adult... get it. If you aren't 
 old enough, stay away.
  
  Remember PARENTS it is YOUR responsibility to MONITOR your children's gameplay... do your homework 
 about what games are child safe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taximan56
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what a GTA style game on the 360 would be like? Well it's exactly what you 
 thought, the graphics will blow you away (the hair is still reminiscent of a typical original xbox 
 figure, but thats my only complaint) , the driving is phenomenal (I do doughnuts with eaze on every 
 vehicle, FWD vehicles are a bit more challenging , did I mention the amazing drifting!!!!) . As 
 for the shooting, well, what can I say...... it's goin to take a little bit to get used to (more 
 of a freehand aiming system) , but hey..... it's awesome. The sound in the game is great, when you 
 are out of the car you hear the subwoofers pounding violently with a faint bit of music and voices, 
 and when you enter the car, you hear the song crystal clear with amazing bass. The best part of 
 this game is the realism, for instance, when you knock someone out or kill them, you may still 
 kick the body around!! Overall, I would highly recommend this game to anyone with a pulse, actually 
 no...... even the dead...... so, I guess that's everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: contaminated
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty much like GTA in the free roaming aspect and such but it doesn't quite get the 
 epic feel you would expect like in all the other Grand Theft Autos. It also leaves you with no 
 conclusion whatsoever when you complete each gang storyline. The reason why is because upon completing 
 each storyline you recieve your achievments a few unlockables such as vehicles and some guns in 
 you garage and not else no additional cutscene that puts things at ease or leaves space for a sequel. 
 The ending you do get upon beating a gang storyline is pretty much the same thing as it will just 
 give a cutscene saying that he gang is finished and maybe a little more and thats it. There is 
 however a lot to do in the way of activities but some of them are less interesting then others 
 and is just a chore then a true activity. As for the muliplayer it is good but only if you can 
 find a lag free server which is pretty hard. Until the patch comes out it will stay the same with 
 lots of lag making some games unplayable. Another problem is the lack of maps there are a total 
 of 9 maps spread across each game modes 2 type of modes sharing the same 3 maps unlike the other 
 2 which has its own set of maps. I'm sure that the multiplayer post patch would be much better 
 and have smooth running servers. This game is a pretty good GTA wannabe but its single player will 
 leave you wanting and its muliplayer needs to be fixed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasuke55
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a game set in a fictional U. S. city filled with gangs cars shady politicians and 
 a plethora of bystanders to beat on!!!
  
  Graphics: Graphicly Saints Row is easily in the top 5 best looking 360 games thus far but is with 
 out its faults. While you can see beautiful high rises and bridges and traffic in the distance 
 Saints Row's occasional screen tearing and freezing can be a minor head ach if you haven't saved 
 regularly. 8/10
  
  Sound: One word AWESOME. Sport tracks from some of hiphops brightest stars Lloyd Banks (G-unit) 
 Method Man, Ghostface Killa, The Clipse and Many of the other Genres of music as well. 10/10
  
  Gameplay: The controls on this game are typical of the Gta scheme throw people out of cars 
 kill with the usual suspects such as Bats, Ak-47's, Grenades, RPG Rockelaunchers. Pipe bombs are 
 a neat addition and the ability to throw on the run while looking behind you is sweet too. The 
 thing that keeps this game from a rating of say a 9.3/10 is the Missions. Its not so much the Variety 
 of Mission because There are many like Insurance Fraud where you take your customized Character 
 and take fake dives in front of Various Cars for Money. Then there is the Escort Service where 
 you take the Lady around in a tinted car while the Paparazi, Signifigant Other chases you trying 
 to get enought evidence to bust you. There are other Missions such as Hitman, Racing, Chop Shop and 
 you can even do in store hold ups. You may think what more could you want?? The answer is Vehicle 
 Variety Like Bikes, Motor Cycles, Boats, Planes and Maybe even Jetskiis wouldn't hurt. You may say 
 you can't have everything but I say that would keep you from getting tired of just driving. 8/10
 
  
  Total Time Spent playing thus Far 13hrs
  
  Conclusion I would say this is a great game while it does borrow from GTA series it stands alone 
 as a great game for any lover of the Free-Roam Genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathwillcome
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Before actually buying this game, ask yourself this: Is GTA a good game? If so, then Saints Row 
 is great. The gameplay is awesome. You start off in a gang, the Saints Row and you gotta take a 
 whole city under your control. The missions are simply awesome. You can either have a mission where 
 you drive a rig and destroy stuff, drive a car and shoot stuff... It never stops! The even greatest 
 thing are Activities in the game. Before some missions, you have to do a random activity laid. 
 It can be either hijacking, mayhem, insurance fraud... Mayhem is by far the best. Destroy stuff 
 with ulimited amo.
  
  Graphicaly the game is awesome and sound wise even better. There is ALOT of swearing and sexual 
 content, but nothing of that are cheap.
  
  If you love GTA, you'll love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pugberto3122
Rating: 6.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Better thatn expected but lacking the GTA charm. When I first bought this game I didn't think it 
 was as good as I do now because it felt like a GTA stealer . But after you pass all that you see 
 a different game the gameplay works well and is easy to learn. When you look at the graphics it 
 doesn't seem Xbox 360 but when you look deeper you can see a large amounts of detail and colour. 
 The sound is amazing with the radio stations having excellent music and funny talk shows also when 
 you walk through the streets you can hear people talking to one another which makes the city feel 
 alive at all times. The value of game is great with loads of things you can do along side the story 
 mode of the game which is very well put together. When ignore all the faults with the game you 
 realise that the game has good structure. If want game while waiting for Gears of War and other 
 titles this is a must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electrojelly
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  There are some who will just simply not accept anything can replace GTA, saints row isnt replacing 
 it, its just improving where gta left the gaps and its taken advantage of this. Of course this 
 is all my opinion you may not like saints row for a different reason, what ever the reason you 
 have to at least try it before saying its a GTA clone, first off i like GTA, i like saints row... 
 i dont have a favourite.
  
  Saints row obviously has the power of the 360 and hence better graphical effects, (explosions, 
 decals, heat etc) you cant state the graphics are the best point of this game, there not.
  
  Saints row stands well because of its courage, its taken GTA's style and improved. saints row 
 aim system is better for one and no more animation because now its ragdoll.
  
  It does have its flaws, come to think of it simular to GTA, missions would often send you off to 
 do something and you would die having to start again, the good is you have a 'restart mission?' 
 come up. the bad is you could be stuck on this point for hours as the game continues to stay at 
 a difficulty that doesnt suit the users skill.
  
  Another bad thing is saints row is short, i guess the difficultly trys to fix that, im not sure, 
 but try hard enough and you can do it in a day if that. just to finish it is a nice game to add 
 to the 360 collection and it does draw you back.
  
  I'm not sure what it is but it makes you want to play, even if its just to muck about it keeps 
 it fun, i enjoyed this game, and then there were times were i got fed up but i'll always be coming 
 back, its a nice game graphically and has some nice features, before comparing it to GTA give it 
 a go its much more than a clone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fkholmes
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Awesome game really, really fun! It is really cool how you have SO much freedom its just crazy 
 for example I wanted to buy a bong [yes for taking drugs] but I had just bought a military grade 
 assault rifle so I thought I'll do some good old fashioned insurance fraud! Anyways Its an awesome 
 game and yes I know I said it like five times.
  
  Gameplay: Its awesome that there are ragdoll physics in it. Plus its really fun fighting people! 
 Other than for the fact that some missions are far too hard but most of the time it too easy, I 
 just kick anybody and everybodies ass : ( but at first its got great diffuculty for the first 50 
 hours.
  
  Graphics: Very nice graphics, very detailed enviroments!
  
  Sound: Superb music (some big names (Beehtoven, Wu Tang Clan and many more!) and superb voice acting 
 (some big names here as well) !
  
  Value: VERY long game it has lasted me arond 110 hours so far, and I'm still not bored of it!
 
  
  I really love this game it is suprisingly fun, sure it is a GTA clone but it is the only competiton 
 for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danny_tron
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  On it's own merits Saints Row is a very addictive and highly entertaining game. Right off the bat 
 let's knock away at the GTA similarities. Yes it's true the game is similar if not identical in 
 some aspects to the GTA series. Everything from the map to the carjackings and mission types are 
 standard GTA fare. Some might consider this a setback. However there plenty of basketball games 
 where your characters goal is to dribble down the court, pass, and shoot. Though the similarities 
 are many one could look at this as the next installment of a new genre and this is Volition's take 
 on it. The graphics in this game are good. True there are better looking 360 games but not all 
 of them have this much content and variety. There's plenty to do in the dangerous town of Stilwater. 
 And it looks good while you're doing them.
  
  The driving mechanics have a familiar and comfortable feel. The shooting and fighting is nice in 
 that you have to aim for yourself, creating some harrowing moments when your almost finished with 
 a mission and you have no life left. Be sure to stock up on food items.
  
  A lot of people are wondering whether or not this game can hold it's own against GTA. Some will 
 even go so far as to say it can't touch it without even giving it a chance. While Saints Row may 
 not have the same charisma that won us over in the GTA series it still has a lot of guts. The actions 
 is fast and furious. There are moments of hilarity. The characters are a little too stiff but the 
 voice acting is good.
  
  All in all Saints Row is a good game. While it resembles GTA it has enough of it's own cool features 
 and gameplay to be a worthy addition to anyone's 360 collection who's looking for a great action 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dtuck
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  I've loved the GTA series so I was always going to buy this game. As soon as it loaded up and the 
 intros had passed you see straight away that this is an unashamed GTA rip off. This may put some 
 purists off but I didn't mind at all.
  
  It's a little disappointing in that it doesn't give a glimpse of what next gen GTA will be like. 
 The graphics while good need some polish, the map is a lot smaller than San Andreas and the missions 
 could be more varied but more on that in a bit.
  
  I'm sure by now everyone knows the story about the Saints taking back the row. It's a fun story 
 with some good characterisation and I enjoyed completing the 3 strands, however I would have liked 
 more story based missions. The game is quite easy and it's not difficult to whizz straight through 
 all 3 strands of the story.
  
  The side missions are a bit hit and miss and sometimes involve a little luck such as the Insurance 
 Fraud activity. I'm actually finding these side missions much more difficult than the story ones 
 and sometimes more enjoyable. The Chop Shop and Hitman missions in particular invite you to tour 
 the game world and notice things you may not have otherwise while speeding through the streets.
 
  
  As I've said the map is a lot smaller than San Andreas, however this does mean you're never far 
 away from something to do. While I would have liked to have seen a larger map I'm pleased that 
 the one they delivered is so effecient and works.
  
  Does Saints Row add anything to GTA?
  
  The car handling is better. I also like being able 
 to save cars in my garage, although perhaps this should be done progressively. Your first crib 
 for example can realistically only fit 1 or 2 cars, however the game allows an unlimited number 
 to be saved there. Perhaps you should be able to save more cars as you get better and bigger garages?
 
  
  The navigation tool around the map was cool, I can't remember if this was there for San Andreas? 
 (Hey I'm not a journalist pro!) As a game in it's own right it's fun to play and there's plenty 
 of stuff to keep people interested after the missions are complete. The achievements are sensible 
 are designed to reward you for playing on.
  
  Did I take it online? Yeah for about 5 minutes, absolutely terrible lag made for a confusing time 
 but as I'd bought this with single player in mind I've not let it impact this score.
  
  It's an 8.1, great but only just. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I thought this game was better then GTA. There is so much more to do in this game then you can 
 do in GTA. Like so what if its a GTA copy its alot better then either GTA games. and sure you can't 
 drive boats or fly planes but i thought flying planes got pretty boring on the fifth time in San 
 Andreas and driving boats was almost a complete waste of time because you didn't really go anywhere 
 on a boat except for the middle of freakin nowhere. Saints Row has pretty good graphics for next 
 gen and pretty smooth frame rate, it kinda slows down if too much is going on, but i got over that 
 in a hurry. The acting is pretty good and the sound is really good, it could use better songs on 
 the radio but either than that it sounds great. I love the ragdoll feature, especially when you 
 can hit people in to the air and they go flying and if you get hit you go flying, thats fun. And 
 the explosions in the game are really fun too because pieces go flying everywhere and the main 
 part of the car goes into the air, and if your standing in a random place a wheel or a piece of 
 the car will hit you and knock you over, now that's realistic.
  
  So overall if you like GTA buy this game because it is way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mammoth_42
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  From the Graphics, to the storyline and customization, heck even the prostitutes are all phenomenal. 
 This game is truely the next generation of crime adventure video games, The lighting affects are 
 just outstanding and the faces of each individual character look incredibly real, in cutscenes 
 and during gameplay. The gameplay is also very solid with extremely memorable controls and a wonderful 
 variety of customization options. Virtually everything on your body and car is customizable which 
 can keep you interested for a very long time, there is also a plethora of firearms and vehicles. 
 This game overall is a very impressive presentation and if i didnt know any better Rockstar probably 
 got some very good ideas for GTA 6 off this truely amazing example of a crime adventure video game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: milsvaard
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 13, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying, if you buy this game you're gonna have a good time. People have been put 
 off by comparing this game to the GTA series, some wont get over that and simply dismiss it by 
 saying its unoriginal, its been done before and its a copy of GTA. Although they do have a point, 
 it doesnt stop the game from offering a fun gameplay experience from start to finish. Im not gonna 
 go into the specifics of the game, what i want to communicate is simply that this is a very fun 
 game, its got lots of things to do, racing, mayhem missions, snatch, and other missions which escape 
 my mind at the moment, aside from the storydriven missions. This game stands on its own 2 feet 
 and is definitely a good adition to the 360 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocky1007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  Yes it is a GTA ripoff but that is a good thing. Saints Row ripped off GTA in a good way. The game 
 is generally a really good game. The graphics are better than GTA, as is the shooting controls. 
 The one bad thing about Saints Row is the driving camera. It will not stay behind you. It bounces 
 all over the place. I had to replay levels because it would swivel around and by the time I got 
 it back where I needed it I had wrecked or lost who I was chasing. That was the major hangup I 
 had with the game. The voice acting in the game is superb. The side missions are fun. I really 
 liked the Insurance Fraud mini-games. Plus Saints Row has online play and thats always fun. I would 
 love to see a Saints Row 2. So I got to say buy it because it is a good game and its over a year 
 before GTA comes out for the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  As the 360 gets older and nears its 1 year mark more games are slowly coming out of the woodwork. 
 I bought my 360 this past summer and have now owned, Perfect Dark, Oblivion, Dead Rising, Madden, 
 and Saints Row.
  
  All are great games in their own right, but I personly believe that Saints Row is the first game 
 to only be for the 360 that kicks this much butt. Sure Dead Rising is great don't get me wrong, 
 it has given me hours of hours of endless fun, but some of the missions just feel lack luster and 
 I feel hurried through the game and cannot enjoy just running around killing zombies.
  
  Perfect Dark is another great game, but it is a sequal, to previous platforms and did not start 
 off on the 360.
  
  Oblivion is also on the comp.
  
  And yes I realize there are more games then this but lets just continue on...
  
  Saints Row 
 lets you choose your own speed since you can choose when to do missions, and you actully have to 
 unlock missions by getting rep... which forces you to do side missions, some which I was never 
 fond of but these ones are great! For example you have to drive around a hooker and a wealthy dude 
 while the news is trying to get pictures... its just fun. I would continue talking but I have a 
 class that starts soon so I will just end with this (I realize this post was nothing and I am sorry 
 about that) do not just compair it to GTA and say its the reason this game stinks. They are both 
 part of the same genra... did GTA make that genra? Yes. Should we compare them slightly? Yes... 
 but do not say, "This game is not as big as San Andreas so it sucks." See it as the city is more 
 alive than San Andreas. Just go out and buy it, you will have fun, I promise.
  
  -The Croix Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punk_knight_200
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  I very seldom review a game and give it a 10 Perfect but, this time I had to. If you take the basic 
 idea of the game open sandbox community which you can do anything you want (with missions involved) . 
 That pretty much what u get from gta and saints row, so I can see where people call it a carbon 
 copy. But with the type of game it is, it's hard to be different. But I think saint row does a 
 good job in trying to be different in it own aspects, which make SR it's own game and not a carbon 
 copy of the gta series. Now for my 2nd rant I have heard people complain about have to drive from 
 one end of the city to the other to complete missions. For all of you that complain about that 
 let me ask you this if you were a gang would all the rival gangs be right next door to you so you 
 could just walk over..... No they wouldn't. Come on people try and think realist it's awful that 
 we want everything to be so simple. The game it's self is perfect great selection of cars, suv's, 
 pick-up's, and trucks. I do wish there would have been use of motorcycles, planes, boats, and other 
 vehicles but, it's the first SR hopefully they make another one and incorporate what I said above 
 and the ability to have a female character customization for your avatar. SR is a beautiful game, 
 great voice acting, and everything about it catches your attention. It makes you want to keep playing 
 and it also makes you work for your goals and mission which is a big plus, because it's make for 
 a longer game which spending $60 on a game makes you want. I think that everyone needs to play 
 this game if not to have fun with the game at least to see what a next-gen system is capable of. 
 This game may be similar to gta but it's defiantly sets it's self apart as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattista
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  When you play this game you will notice that the graphics are better than any of the free roaming 
 action adventure games -e. g GTA , True Crime, The Godfather and many others. Also the more realistic 
 gameplay makes playing it even more exciting. Even though it lacks helicopters, motorbikes and 
 boats the gameplay makes up for it. The freedom you are granted is up with GTA standards maybe 
 better. But with all this there is one major flaw, I finished the game in four days and unless 
 you are a huge fan of these sort of games and you like playing over Xbox live ( which looks fun) 
 then buying it would be fine, but if you just want to finish the game your better off renting Saints 
 Row when it becomes a weekly hire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigblued89
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  Well, when I first heard the Saint's Row was coming out, I thought that it would be a horrible 
 GTA knockoff. I was wrong. The graphics are really good, you can make your own character, and it's 
 really fun. The graphics in this game are really good, but that's to be expected. Making your own 
 character isn't essential to a game, but was a nifty feature. It's fun to screw around with your 
 character. It plays almost exaclty like GTA, which is good. One large difference is that you have 
 a GPS system in your car, so that makes it easy to get around. There aren't any motorcycles or 
 planes, just cars. They gotta save some for Saint's Row 2. There are quite a few glitches with 
 this one though. Cars will dissapear out of no where, and the controls could use some work. The 
 homie system works out quite well, and you can revive them when they die. Overall, Saint's Row 
 is a great game that will tide you over until GTA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XT-inc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok this one shall be a short review.... Basically saints row is a GTA rip off but I believe they 
 call it crime adventure action game or somthing now? any way, It has a tonne of variety in gameplay 
 as well as character customization. The graphics are awsome and the sound effects where perfect 
 the rain was great. Overall the game was not all to long I finished it in about 4 days to reclaim 
 all of still water but I am sure many of you will pull it off in a week or two. The only main issue 
 with the game was the horrible way cars popped in on screen, I. e you will be driving and see a 
 car you want to steal flip yours into a Uturn and all the traffic that just passed you will be 
 gone. On one occasion I turned my character in a 360 movement and the cars in the parking lot dissapeared 
 as they got out of site. That and after GTA SA this game fails, no bikes or air vehicles and the 
 map feels tiny in comparison. I can not say much about the online play the few matches I got made 
 me feel like there where some mp issues like the damage and hosting you will empty a shotgun clip 
 mid range and people wont die yet your toast in a pistol clip. To be fair I do not suck at aiming 
 so horribly that this is an entirely faulty noob statement. And I personally did not enjoy the 
 community it brought into the table as I have never seen or heard so many 7 year olds in a round 
 since halo 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rradune
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Im not a big fan of gangster crap IRL, however I cant deny running around stealing cars, killing 
 people, and robbing stores in a game. This is a decent game as long as its not compared to GTA. 
 I miss ridding motorcycles around and having an airport without planes that I can fly just seems 
 a little odd. This is a solid 8 plus game but compared to a GTA San Andreas would certainly fall 
 flat. Ive read a few reviews that place this above GTA and Im not sure what they are thinking. 
 Im thinking theyve smoked to much weed since the last time they played GTA San Andreas.
  
  Anyway, Its a good game and well worth playing. Once GTA is released, what in a month (?) , I predict 
 this will not be a relevant game.
  
  This is my review and Im sticking to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandmasterjey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Say what you will about Saints Row , whether you think that its a GTA rip-off or something...... Uh 
 yeah, anyway, Saints Row takes the GTA formula and manages to make it its own.... in a way. you 
 first get to fully custumeize your character, from his or her ethnicity to the shape of your character's 
 head. there are a bunch of ways you could do to try to make your character stand out .... in a 
 way. you don't get to change his or hers appearance, you get to do that later when you take your 
 created character into the game. When your done with all the creating stuff, you get to start the 
 game (duuuuuhhhhhhhhhh) . anyway, you start the as.... well.... pretty much a nobody in this strange 
 city, a city where they could a little TLC ( Tacos..... Lettuce.... and Cheese) , mmmmmmm TLCCCCC aggghhhhhhhh. 
 um yeah back to the matter at hand. You get mixed up in this crazy hip-hop battle and that Wilmer 
 Valderamaimalittleasswhipe is in the middle yelling "yo mama" (god I hate that show) , O. K. not really, 
 but your are in the of a gang war. So your in the middle of this war and everyone has pretty much 
 killed each other but just when it looked like you were done for and most likely die a virgin, 
 you get rescued my Julius (the leader of the Saints Row Gang) and his right hand man Micheal Rappaport (I'm 
 sorry, I forgot his character's name) and well your given an invitation to join Siants Row and 
 of coarse you take the invitation and now..... congratulations your an up and coming Gang member. 
 The game is of coarse a mission based game, but you don't just finish one mission and start the 
 next, ooohhhh nooo girls, you see, unlike GTA, you have go and earn some respect in order to move 
 on to the next storie-based mission."but Iron-head, How do you earn respect?" you earn respect 
 doing these side mission thats scattered across the city, foo!!! the side missions are basicaly..... fun 
 in there own unique way. you get to do things like.... for example, a snatch mission is where you 
 steal away hos from thier abusive pimps and to the nearest brothele ( I think miss-spelled that) . 
 Another mission is the the hijack mission, where steal curtian cars and take e'm back to where 
 the mission started. theres are curtian levels in those missions depending on where you go. For 
 example, you start the snatch mission at level 1, which is the easiest, but the more you get into 
 it, the higher the level will be, which means, the more challenging it will be. You also get to 
 gain gang territories, "But Iron-head, how do you gain more territories?" By completing curtian 
 missions, Foo!!! You see, there are two different storied-based missions, there are the main storie 
 mission, where they are located around the Saints Row's hideout or around their naighborhood ( in 
 other words, on your gang terertory) . Then there are stronghold missions, which is located in another 
 gang teritory. basicaly you go to another gangs teritory at a certian location and you start a 
 war once you beat the mission you get control of a curtian part of you rival gang's teritory. The 
 same could be said for the storied based mission. The stronghold missions are actually related 
 to the main story. The gameplay is basicaly like GTA , with the exeption of you can't ride on bikes 
 and airplanes and stuff. It certianly looks good, there are a few bugs in the game, but those are 
 only miner and won't mess up your gameplay exerience that much. It sounds just as good as it does 
 to play it. I can't really much on the online play becuase I don't have an Xbox live Account, so 
 yeah, get off me foo!!! The AI at times can be at times assineing, like for example, after you 
 take over a teritory, at a certian time they will call in distress and telling you to save them, 
 because only a HERO can save those girls that you call fellow gang members, also they can't save 
 their own lives even if you do reciut them or "roll wit u" to help you takeover a teritory, but 
 other times they can be usefull, like a human shield!!! Soooooo....... if you can't wait till GTA 
 4 comes out or looking for something different, Saints Row will be able to satisfy your gameplaying 
 cravings..... I guess?! Oh yeah, Wilmer Valderama SUCKS alot of mangina-loving monkey ballz. God 
 I hate so g**dam much. someone please give him a huge kick in the ballz. he deserves it ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amrit23
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  i have had it since the 1st day and since i not put it down playing for almost 2-3 a day this is 
 an amazing game and so far i think best for the 360 . This game has amazing gameplay and graphics 
 the is truely an amazing game and so far this has been a game i will be playing for a long time 
 . This hs really given GTA: SA a run for its money i say anyone with a 360 has to buy this game 
 this is a must  u have to get this game the shooting , driving 
 , missions, side missions are vary good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Well to summerize the gameplay into one word I would say good. Its got some bugs but 
 what game dousent? I have only found a couple things things that are major bugs but nothing too 
 bad. The framerate holds pretty good, altho somtimes it will slow down but not verry often. The 
 shooting in the game is perfect. Its like playing a first person shooter in third person. The driving 
 is very easy to learn but it is difficult to turn sharp corners while driving fast. The online 
 is the best part of the game, when I get home from school I go straight to playing online! The 
 lag is pretty bad they will fix it soon, thats why its better to play in custom games, no lag, 
 but also no money. 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are amazing. The fact that there are a lot of things on screen and most 
 things have havok 3.0 physics and still holds the framrate at a great speed. Its amazing and digs 
 you deeper in the experiance. 10
  
  Sound: The sound track is awsome! In GTA all they offered was rap ( I hate rap ) and in SR theres 
 punk and metal for people like me! The gunshots and professinal voice acting are very nice. 10
 
  
  Value: The games value is incredible because if you get bored of MP you can play SP! They are both 
 freaking awsome. I reccomend this to anyone who likes shooters or anyone in general. 10
  
  Tilt: Buy this game now. Please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markp1602
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game with plenty of freedom.
  However, I think it's missing something. It just doesn't seem to have the same playability as GTA. 
 I just don't feel like playing it very often.
  I got the game on Friday the 1st and I have not played it since Tuesday the 5th (8 days ago) I 
 just don't fancy it.
  It has good points:
  Graphics are good, Freedom is good, Driving is OK, Shooting and fighting is good but apart from 
 that this game is nothing new. We've seen most of it before in GTA, this game is nothing groundbreaking. 
 Yes, it is worth playing and can be fun but the novelty soon wears off.
  
  www. mpphotographics. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CliffHicks
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 12, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Let's get one thing perfectly clear -- Saint's Row is very much in the vein of the Grand Theft 
 Auto games. If you don't like GTA3 or any of its ilk, you needn't bother showing up for Saint's 
 Row. Also, if you are expecting the bar to be raised from San Andreas, you may find yourself in 
 for a bit of disappointment. That said, if you're willing to have fun playing a new GTA-like game 
 without expecting a revolution, you'll have yourself a a fun time with Saint's Row.
  
  The voice cast is easily one of the best in a game in a long time. That said, I almost wish there 
 was more for them to do. The story missions, while solid, didn't take a very long time, and I feel 
 like I want more to do. Still, when you have people like Michael Clark Duncan, Keith David, Daniel 
 Dae Kim, Michael Rappaport and Tia Carrerra, it's hard to get the voice work wrong. Still, I would've 
 liked to have more actual story missions in the game. There aren't enough of them, and it feels 
 like we're only getting a couple of acts instead of a full movie.
  
  You can't simply blow through the storyline stuff, though. You need to fill a respect bar up in 
 order to do story missions. That's fine, I suppose, but it feels forced. And being forced into 
 doing all the side stuff can be somewhat annoying. Thankfully, most of the side missions are at 
 least somewhat enjoyable. There's a large variety of them, ranging from Mayhem (the absolute carnage 
 types of missions) to Escort (where you're driving around a working girl) . A lot of them are fun, 
 but there are a few points where they can get a little ludicrous. (In the Escort Missions, I eventually 
 just started shooting the press.)
  
  The radio stations are mostly solid, although the DJs feel a little devoid of personality. There 
 just isn't as much character to these stations as there are the GTA games. On the up side, however, 
 there is a classical station, and I can't tell you how great an addition this is. If you've never 
 done a mission to "Ride of the Valkyries" then you don't know what you're missing. The ads are 
 pretty funny, though. It did seem, however, that the announcers would have weird pauses from time 
 to time. And the announcer voices always felt quieter than the music by a significant amount, but 
 maybe that's just the way our home stereo's set up.
  
  I saw some strange graphical glitches from time to time (the freeway tended to pop in and out a 
 bit, so I'd be driving on thin air...) and encountered a couple of bugs in the game. At one point, 
 I was doing an escort mission and needed to stop some place mid mission. When I hit that point, 
 the car vanished, but I was still "sitting" in it. Couldn't get out. Couldn't move on. Couldn't 
 drive. Couldn't quit. I did, however, get to save and then restarted the whole console, and I was 
 right back at the beginning of that mission. Still, it was kind of annoying.
  
  Also of some small complaint, the multiplayer action really doesn't have enough vehicular activity 
 going on. While I know system requirements keep things from getting too out of hand, I really would've 
 liked to have seen more car craziness. I like some of what's in the multiplayer set up -- I've 
 created a gang with a couple of my friends, and that's fun and all, but still, as one of my friends 
 pointed out, there's just not enough car craziness happening here. We'll see how much time I spend 
 in multiplayer.
  
  All said and done, I'm glad I picked up Saint's Row, and I hope they make another one. It's not 
 the best game I've played this year, but hell, I had fun playing it, and in the end, that's all 
 that really matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daboss77
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  There are only a few must have titles for the 360 out right now, this is definitely one of them. 
 For all of us that loved the GTA series, this is the fix we needed. Yes, it is a complete copy 
 of the GTA game but, IMHO, they took out a lot of the parts of the game that just got annoying, 
 and added a ton of cool stuff. Plus the sounds better, the graphics are better and the play control 
 is better.
  3 things I really love about Saints Row:
  1) You can customize cars like in GTA, but they all stay in your garage/the mechanic shop. Even 
 if you destroy them, you can buy them back at a cheep price.
  2) The customizable character is sweet. Games like this you play for hours on end and eventually 
 you get sick of looking at the same character. You can have a straight up gansta thug one day, 
 and a pimp or kingpin the next.
  3) You can gang up with 3 other gang members to help you out. It's needed on some missions, and 
 it really amps up the chaos/shootout factor, which I love.
  
  Best freakin thing about Saints Row, Load times are practically non-existent!
  Good job with 
 that. Let's hope other games can follow suit with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdkjlfd
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  The bad: Sluggish framerate. when 5 or more copcars on the screen at the same time the game is 
 almost unplayable, (though GTA III for the ps2 was almost as bad) , cars & people fade out irrationally, 
 even the car I was presently driving dissapeared into thin air once. Bad analog throttle, you can't 
 really cruise the city the way you can in San andreas. No Motorcycles, no boats, no planes nor 
 helicopters in the game. Multiplayer doesent work well.
  
  The Good: Responsive controlls on foot, GTA style but no lock on system (permanent free aim) . Ragdoll, 
 Why didn's San andreas have this.
  High Definition for those with the hardware. Groovy special effects like explosions and weapon 
 sounds. Charcter creation, you can now make the character in game look like yourself. and last 
 but not least, the sound.
  incredible crisp sharp sound that truly make the city of stilwater come to life.
  (if you don't 
 have a 5.1 surround system, BUY ONE FOR CHRIST SAKE!)
  ... and a final one then.. There IS actually a multiplayer section... Down to it:
  Ok the game 
 can unmistakably be compared to the GTA series,
  but you cant fix it to one of them. personally I would place Saints Row somewhere in between GTA 
 III and Vice City. The town in Saints Row: Stilwater,
  is about the same size as those two Gta's but there are absolutely NO loading times once you're 
 into the game engine, you can walk seamlessly into the buildings thar are open for you, Shops, 
 cribs (safehouses) and some mission related buildings. This goes also for changing your appearence 
 in the game, which you can do at any pont as long as you have the cash. That goes even for plastic 
 surgery. Now one could think the game is a short one when they see the stats panel and find out 
 there are only 36 story missions in it. But as you have to get a certiain amount of respect to 
 take on a story mission the game actually can guarantee at least 20 hours of gameplay. You get 
 respect by doing a variety of things like stealing a car and take a hostage, night burglary or 
 the activity missions which are the main thing the game isn't so short. The activity missions ara 
 a variety of things you can do, Riding shogun while a drugrunner sells his/her's merchandise on 
 the street, Highjackin vehiclos, Shop chop, races and Hitman targets no name a few.
  The 36 story missions though are well done, those that aren't strongholds that you need to take 
 over. The Voice acting is great, but then there are a lot of B-movie stars in the cast. Which really 
 doesent say anything considering David Duchovny's horrifying act in XIII.
  These actually make you want to do them as they are quite intriguing. Why the game is truly a GTA 
 killer is the graphics. High definition and ragdoll.. not to name the incredible meaty explosions 
 when a car go up. Bodies flying everywhere, people running around as living torches. I know I might 
 sound like a malicios bastard but I haven't laughed this hard since Hitman: codename 47. The Controlls 
 are very easy. slightly more responsive than GTA on foot, but the driving could have been better. 
 Though it's easy to shoot out of the car as you now get a reticule you can point anywhere while 
 driving.
  Weapon choosing is quick and precise, no need to run through the entire inventory to get the gun 
 you want, just press the B button and push the left stick in the weapon of choise's direction.
 
  The music is quite the same as San Andreas, a lot of it is Hip hop and R&B
  but there is something for everyone, I prefer the radiochatter as it's completely retarded. or 
 run something from the xbox hardrive or from my computer with the media connect ability.
  
  The multiplayer: Haven't played it too much but what I've seen isn't very appealing. Dead lifeless 
 cities, almost no cars around. The only good thing is the two (yes only two) Co Op levels, which 
 was quite fun but over too soon.
  Nope. back to GTA London.
  
  Final Word: Ok there is probably something I've missed but the main thing is. This is a really 
 good game. And the only one of i'ts kind for the 360.
  (OK, the original x-box GTA series actually do work. so...)
  As for the shortcomings, the creators 
 have never attempted a game like this before so, some minor setbacks could be expected.
  I you like San Andreas and the other GTA games, I truly recommend Stilwater, I mean Saints Row 
 =)
  
  (no comments on the mispellings) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLAYTER34
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  RENT IT or BUY IT
  
  EITHER WAY IF YOU OWN A 360 THIS IS A MUST IT WILL COMPLETELY REPLACE GTA FOR THE PS2 LOVER... 
 IT DID FOR ME....
  
  I LOVE IT IT HAS RE-IGNITED MY LOVE FOR GAMES... 8YRS OF BOREDOM AND FINALLY SOME HOPE, DO NOT 
 LEAVE YOUR COLLECTION WITHOUT THIS GAME!!!
  
  ALTHOUGH IT IS NOT GTA AND YOU CAN NOT FLY, RIDE, SAIL IT STILL TO ME OUT DOES GTA ITSELF WITH 
 ALL ITS NEAT LITTLE FEATURES, ALL THOSE THINGS I WANTED IN GTA TO A POINT THIS HAS... FLYING THROUGH 
 A WINDSHIELD OR MAKING OTHERS DO IT IS GREAT... THE EXPLOSIONS ALONE ARE LIKE WOAH... EXSPECIALLY 
 FROM TANKER TRUCKS IN THE MIDDLE OF A HUGE GANG WAR, COPS INCLUDED ONCE YOU START CAUSING MASSIVE 
 MAYHEM YOU WONT LOOK BACK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Just finished the main story in Saint's Row and had a blast the whole way though. I really didn't 
 expect too much from this title after all the previews saying that this is a GTA clone. Honestly 
 it is, but so far this is the only game to offer GTA any competition.
  
  The graphics of the game are simply terrific. Pedestrians are varied from fat people, to people 
 in costumes, rollerbladers, and even the elderly and their walkers. The main characters all look 
 different and have great personalities, The environments are varied, cars look great... I really 
 can't say too many bad things about the game. There is some pop-up issues at higher speed, some 
 textures disappear in parts and there is a small bit of slowdown when things get real nasty but 
 overall the game is just beautiful.
  
  Gameplay is pretty much the same as a GTA game except shooting is done like a third person shooter 
 game, gone is the lock on targetting. The system Saint's Row utilizes give the player the ability 
 to take headshots and drop foes faster. The missions are the usual fare of kill this person, escort 
 this truck, steal this, but the side missions offer some challenges and variety. From being the 
 passenger/protecter for a drug dealer, to insurance fraud, where the nastier the accident, the 
 more money you pull in for your lawsuit. All of this is topped off with the Havok Physics engine 
 which is a great idea and just adds a whole other dimension to the realism, or hilarity in the 
 game.
  
  The story is actually more cohesive than the last GTA game. In Saint's Row, you start out as a 
 newcomer that works his way up in his own gang all the while wiping out the three rival gangs. 
 Each rival gang has it's own storyline and each one is done very well. I was honestly surprised 
 on how engaging the stories were for this "GTA clone". The way the majority of the main characters 
 were portray was a key element that made the stories work so well. In the end there are some unanswered 
 questions that can only be answered in a sequel.
  
  The sound was the only disapointing aspect for me. Not the voice acting or the sound effects, just 
 the variety of music. Voice acting has some stars taking up roles in the game and all of the acting 
 was done very well. There really wasn't any horrible acting or bad dialog. The sound effects were 
 also spot on as explosions were satisfying, the popping of the different guns and the purrs of 
 the engines were all different for the most part. The music however was pretty much all unique 
 to this game but there wasn't much variety in the radio stations. 1 reggae, 3 rap, a techno, a 
 classical, a rock and a talk radio. I just wished they had a few more channels with some other 
 kind of music.
  
  Lastly I would like to talk about some of the improvements this game has over GTA. The character 
 and car customization was a nice addition, the way way points were set worked well most of the 
 times even though the path only followed roads and didn't show shortcuts. Of course the newer graphics 
 and the inclusion of the Havok engine was a terrific combo. The ease of recruiting gang members, 
 the ease of combat were both nice to see. There are a few more but I think I've hit on the most 
 important points.
  
  Sure Saint's Row might be labeled as a GTA wannabe, but in actuality it's the only real competition 
 to GTA, and competition is always healthy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helldemon47
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  When GTA3 was released back in 2001, it was recognized for being extremely violent, mature, and, 
 most importantly, fun. With all the superb follows ups to the series, it was no surprise that many 
 imitators would attempt to cash in on the popularity by making their own free-roaming, urban crime 
 games. However, most of these attempts have been quite mediocre providing fake street attitude 
 and, more often than not, bad gameplay. When THQs and Volitions game, Saints Row, was originally 
 announced, many thought it was just another rip-off with the added bonus of a next-gen coat. And 
 while it does borrow many ideas from GTA, it has enough solid gameplay and unique additions to 
 make Saints Row a GTA rip-off worth owning.
  
  You start the game as a nameless nobody just wandering the streets of Stilwater, where the whole 
 game takes place. After you are almost killed by rival gangs fighting it out, you are saved by 
 Julius and Troy, who invite you to be a part of their gang, the 3rd Street Saints. From there, 
 your customized character has the freedom to do whatever he wants. You could occupy hours of your 
 time just driving around and completing the game various activities. There is nothing quite like 
 smashing into another car and having your guy go flying out the windshield as a mini-game.
  
  However, when you decide you want to get into the story, you wont be disappointed. Upon joining 
 the Saints, you will be tasked with various objectives by the lead members of your crew in order 
 to eliminate the other three gangs that occupy Stilwater. The missions are really fun and the cutscenes 
 are very well directed. All the characters have their own unique personality and are sometimes 
 humorous to listen to. The only problem with the story seems to be the ending. While I wont give 
 it away, some many be quite upset with how everything wraps up, but at the very least, it leaves 
 room for a sequel.
  
  Since youll do doing a whole lot of driving and shooting in order to take over the city, the controls 
 for each had to be done well. Thankfully, the team at Volition put a lot of effort into refining 
 the gameplay. Shooting is a simple matter. Just aim and shoot. There is no lock-on function, so 
 you may miss a few shots since the thumb stick isnt always the most precise aiming tool, but it 
 works well and will save your butt more than once. The driving controls are also pretty standard 
 for this type of game. You drive, brake and reverse with the buttons youd expect and you can move 
 your camera a complete 360 degrees around your car. This may have to running in other cars though, 
 so its recommended you only circle the camera when no one is in front of you.
  
  Saints Row really looks like a next-gen game. The character and car models are a big step up from 
 GTA and the explosions are truly a visual treat. Animations look great and flow from one to another 
 perfectly. There are also rag-doll physics at work for every character in the game, so you may 
 find yourself just running into groups of pedestrians just to see it at work. If the developers 
 had just spent some more time to polish the game, this score would have been much higher. However, 
 frequent pop-up and filtering of textures is apparent and can make the game look rather ugly at 
 times. Sure, we see this type of thing in free-roaming games all the time, but for a next-gen title 
 on the Xbox360, it is far too common. Also, some noticeable glitches really take you out of the 
 experience, like an entire free-way just disappearing and flickering under you as you drive on 
 it or cars right next to you fading away. It doesnt happen all the time, but when it does, you 
 will notice and you will not like it.
  
  One thing GTA is known for is its amazing voice work by a huge cast of big name celebrities. Saints 
 Row attempts to match this quality and, for the most part, it does a fantastic job. All the voice-work 
 for the main characters is excellent, which it should be since people like Keith David and Michael 
 Clark Duncan have starring roles that give them great dialogue. Even the pedestrians have good 
 voice-work that will crack you up the first time you hear it. Another thing GTA is known for is 
 the amazing licensed soundtrack it always has. Saints Row also has a lot of licensed music and 
 most of the tracks are very good. Whether youre into rock, rap or anything in between you are 
 bound to find something you like. There are some songs that will make you wonder why they are in 
 the game, but overall, its a great selection.
  
  One thing Saints Row tried to be the first to do was make an insane online experience. To a degree, 
 they succeed. When you get with a loyal group of friends, it can be a blast. The different modes 
 range from standard death match (aka Gangsta Brawl) to an escort mission (aka Protect Tha Pimp) 
 to an original mode called Blinged Out Ride. However, there is one major problem with the online 
 mode. It has a bad tendency to lag the majority of matches. It seems for every smooth running match 
 you have, you get three that are almost unplayable. People will skip around the screen and many 
 times you will be killed while standing alone in an area with no one around. You wont hear any 
 gunfire, youll just drop dead. It seems the amount of people and the type of match affect the 
 amount of lag. Modes like Blinged Out Ride were always laggy, but Gangsta Brawl or Protect the 
 Pimp usually ran smooth with ten or less people in the room. Hopefully, there will be a patch addressing 
 this issue, but until then, its hard to have a devoted online commitment to this game.
  
  Is Saints Row another GTA clone? In many ways, it is. It has the same attitude and similar environments, 
 but Saints Row does more than enough to make it worth a play at the very least, and it is definitely 
 worth a purchase for any fan of free-roaming or urban themed games. It certainly has its problems 
 and the online is usually a pain to play, but this is one of the better games one can have for 
 their Xbox360 and will provide many memorable experiences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fagsi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 11, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  I am sure that makers and fans of Saints Row don't want to hear the words "Grand Theft Auto Clone," 
 and are ready to blitz me with long rants that explain why the game is totally different. But the 
 truth is that Saints Row is very much a GTA-like game, and it's most likely to attract fans of 
 that  genre.
  
  However, it's equally true that Saints Row is a better than average open-world game, and it has 
 some life and style of its own. Grand Theft Auto may still be at the top of the open-world crime 
 game food chain, but give credit to Saints Row for occasionally managing to out-do GTA.
  
  You play a silent but firmly-resolved dude who one day goes for a stroll down the streets of Stilwater, 
 a city besieged by gang warfare. You stumble into a drive-by shooting gone completely out of hand, 
 and now you're involved in gang life whether you like it or not. As a member of the 3rd Street 
 Saints, you'll perform missions against other gangs, hijack cars, performs hits, chauffer drug 
 dealers and prostitutes, and all manner of activities likely to turn the Jack Thompsons of the 
 world purple.
  
  Many of these activities will be familiar to players of GTA games, but Saints Row adds a few new 
 ones. For example, just grabbing a car off the street may allow you to perform "Hostage" missions. 
 If any passengers are in the car, you can take them hostage by driving insanely fast and keeping 
 away from the police. If you drive too slowly, they'll escape. Drive fast enough, long enough, 
 and they'll eventually cough up ransom money. Jacking cars with multiple passengers can be pretty 
 profitable. And, there's a hilarious mode called "Insurance Fraud," where the goal is to do as 
 much damage to yourself as possible in the time allotted.
  
  There are multiple story threads relating to the Saints' efforts to destroy the rival gangs, and 
 as usual you can approach them in any order, whenever you like, as long as you've built up enough 
 "Respect," gained by completing activities. But the city doesn't totally run on your whims. In 
 a cool touch, the city is divided into territories. Once you conquer them, there's a chance that 
 the old gang might re-invade, so you'll have to go back and kick them out.
  
  Saints Row allows you to focus on causing all sorts of uninterrupted carnage, if you like -- there's 
 a mode called "Mayhem" that should be right up your alley. It takes a lot to get the attention 
 of the police, so you can get away with more mischief. The cops aren't totally blind though, and 
 particularly nasty offences will get the law after you. There are also lots gang members out there, 
 so it's never long before the bullets fly.
  
  Also keeping things moving is the fact that once you gain possession of a weapon, you keep it. 
 You aren't totally disarmed if you're captured by the cops, or taken to the hospital. This saves 
 you the trouble of returning to a hideout or store to rearm yourself.
  
  So far I've talked mostly about what's similar or slightly different. Now let's talk about what's 
 better: the targeting system. Gun combat is much more enjoyable in Saints Row, and it's so much 
 easier to track and shoot foes. The control scheme is much smoother and feels more like a good 
 third person action game like Max Payne, only sans Bullet Time. I never felt like I was fighting 
 the controller while driving or shooting, unlike GTA.
  
  I find navigating the game a lot easier too. There's a minimap/radar on the screen, and you can 
 place navigation beacons on the map, which show up on the radar in clear, glowing trails that are 
 very easy to follow. You don't even have to be using a super duper HDTV to spot the difference 
 in clarity.
  
  Saints Row also has multiplayer support. So far, it's an undercooked feature. While the potential 
 is there with amusing modes like Protect the Pimp, Blinged Out Ride (where you try to get the nicest 
 wheels and trash your opponent's ride) , at this writing the multiplayer is really slow to get going. 
 It seems to take forever just to match you up with partners and drop you in a game (I was playing 
 during prime time EST, so it wasn't a question of not enough players) . Hopefully this gets fixed 
 soon. One intriguing multiplayer feature allows you to create your own gang and go online to conduct 
 warfare against other players, but we want to spend our time on the streets, not watching load 
 screens.
  
  Saints Row looks okay, but the graphics don't achieve the heights of other Xbox 360 games. The 
 character models in particular look a little wooden at times, but it's a minor complaint. The city 
 is reasonably large and very nice looking, and with the stores and hideouts you can walk in right 
 off the street continuously, no load times.
  
  Other things that set Saints Row apart are some distinctive faults. Saints Row's streets aren't 
 nearly as busy as GTA's. This is an advantage when you're flying down the streets at top speed 
 in order to meet an objective, and a pain in the ass when you've just died and respawned, and need 
 a car. You'll probably have to run a few blocks before you find one. The streets aren't empty by 
 any means, but there are times when you'll notice that they're a lot quieter than they should be.
 
  
  Something that isn't quiet: the enemies. They tend to appear rather quickly when you're on a mission. 
 I felt this was a touch over-done, especially when you add in other factors like a time limit. 
 During some of the "Snatch" missions, where you steal prostitutes away from abusive pimps, the 
 enemies pop up like zits at a cosplay convention, and dealing with them is challenging enough without 
 the timer.
  
  The game allows you to customize your character and your cars in pretty nice detail, but for some 
 reason you can't play a female character. This is strange, because the game has a very egalitarian 
 view of thug life. The city's gangs are multi-racial, and there are female gangsters. So it's strange 
 that you can't be one.
  
  Finally, I wish more would be done with the AI in these games. I've walked around cops openly carrying 
 guns without reaction. Enemies tend to run back and forth a lot. Pedestrians trying to get out 
 of the way of your speeding car tend to jump in front of it, rather than to safety.
  
  The game worked over time to get its M rating, with lots of raunchy sexual content and jokes, some 
 of which are funny, but most are pretty juvenile. Many of the activities involve escorting prostitutes 
 and strippers to their clientele. Despite the occasional lame off-colour joke, these games are 
 pretty fun. "Escort" missions require you to drive really fast while a prostitute services her 
 clientele, evading the scandal-hungry press and private eyes that are tailing you.
  
  I also have to give the thumbs up to most of the voice work in the game. Keith David provides the 
 voice of the leader of the Saints, and that guy has such an awesome voice he could make reading 
 off his grocery list sound cool (he narrates more recent episodes of the A&E City Confidential 
 series) .
  
  It's hard to give Saints Row points for originality, but there's no GTA-like game for the Xbox 
 360 right now, so it has the market to itself. And thankfully, when all is said and done, it's 
 a pretty good game in the vein of GTA. I bet the developers and fans are sick of hearing those 
 three letters, but if you're a fan of GTA, you should enjoy Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gwitit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  This is an awsome game so far online and story mode but has some bugs and you can also play some 
 laggy game but when the patch comes out this game will deserve a 10. I would prefer this game to 
 anyone one who likes the GTA series very similar with great multiplayerthe patch is not far away 
 so buy the game and you wont regret it ill say Volition Inc best game so far.
  Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints rowSaints row Saints row 
 Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints 
 row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints 
 row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints 
 row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row Saints row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abanks
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  This game not only proves alot of people wrong (mainly Sony fanboys) but gives Rockstar a big kick 
 up the **** for their next GTA.
  
  Its best bits:
  
  * Any weapon after only 5 mins gameplay.
  * Any part of the game after only 5 mins gameplay.
 
  * Not having to keep the character alive through food & drink.
  * Great selection of cars from meter maid 3 wheelers to full on diggers.
  + everything i cant 
 be bothered to type.
  
  It has a few gripes but it still storms over any other GTA. A patch is due to fix a few graphical 
 elements but after that then it will rock.
  
  The rumours are also talking about content you can buy like clothing packs so you can add to the 
 game even after you finish it, to keep it ongoing until Saints Row 2 (if they make one)
  
  Basically this game is well worth the 39.99 i paid for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtMMMbop_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This game takes everything that was bad about GTA: SA and fixes it. While it's obvious that this 
 game is "inspired" (read - a ripoff) of GTA, it's unfortunate that reviewers artifically lower 
 their scores just so they don't give a supposed "ripoff" a deserved high score, no matter how good 
 the game actually is.
  
  At this point, the multiplayer is not patched yet, but oddly enough, even with the lag problems 
 that seem to show up every other time I play, it's STILL fun. The fact that your monetary rewards 
 are fairly small assures that only the long-term and/or really good players have the most expensive 
 outfits.
  
  Single-player does not disappoint, and fixes a lot of the few problems GTA: SA has, most notably 
 aiming and not being able to access certain areas of the city until you complete a required amount 
 of missions.
  
  Highest possible recommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adragon_hart
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 10, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I rented the game and played everyday for a little while, sadly, the most fun I had was finding 
 different cars and seeing what kinds of cusmizations there were. The gameplay is easy to get used 
 grasp, but the visuals were a little too GTAish, as is much of the story. The game seemed too much 
 like it was trying to be different while keeping the mechanics the same. The rag-doll physics was 
 a nice touch, and the recruitment was too. I was a little disappointed in how small the world seemed 
 compared to San Andreas, and the lack of aircraft, motorcycles, or boats was a little too different. 
 The needing reputation to progress though the game was an incentive to complete the small "filler" 
 type objectives, but it didnt create enough substance. While enjoyable, I'll hold off till the 
 next GTA installment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slybri
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I went out and bought a copy after renting it. I don't like the GTA games because of the crappy 
 controls and the loading and the driving to the mission to redo it. Saint's row has none of that. 
 It's a much more convienient and playable GTA. What it lacks is GTA's content. Particularly SAn 
 Andreas. That game had Bikes, Planes, Choppers, everything. You name it, you drive it. Activities 
 everywhere. RPG character building and leveling up. Big name celebs doing the voiceovers. Hell, 
 the radio stations themselves were almost worth the price of admission. Saint's row has none of 
 that either. What it does have is sweet graphics, smooth and customizable controls, Havok physics, 
 and a half decent multiplayer. It's also got a character customizer that works. It's the first 
 game in which I've actually been able to make a character that looks like me. Not even Tiger Woods 
 could put me in the game like that. It's hilarious to see me running around as a gangster. The 
 Ai is pretty good too. I walked up on some random guy a little while ago. He was just standing 
 on a cliff, just staring out at the water. I approach him and he jumps off the cliff yelling, "I'll 
 never have to eat my wife's cooking again!!!" Totally random thing. I've never seen that in any 
 GTA game. They also have gang fights going on around you, which are fun to watch sometimes. And 
 the civilians will often get into fights when there's an accident. The AI's almost as good as Oblivion's 
 sometimes. I think this game is worth about 50 bucks. It's not as packed with variety and content 
 as GTA: SA, but it's not as annoying and it's more fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emmerin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  This game is high quality. Once you step into the world of Stillwater, you'll know that it has 
 some glitches and some material it needs work on, like auto aiming, they could have at least given 
 the option of it. but the rest of the game is perfect. I shot a train with an rpg and it flipped 
 over and skid on the tracks infront of me. I even went and pimped up my ride with spinners and 
 hydraulics and colours that would make you say "...........". And i also had fun with grenades 
 and molotov cocktails........ mam O man do i love to blow up stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikeysnipy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  WoW! this game rocks, evry one sez that its just another copy of GTA, but it does a way better 
 job! The ONLY thing is-i wish you could get in and fly helis or planes, thats it. Even the multiplayer 
 is awesome, the way u get money and can buy clothes for a seperate account online is genious! I 
 can't wait until they get that patch for the game then i'll be playing it non-stop! Alot of people 
 that havent even playe the game yet say its not good anit's just a lame cpy of GTA, this game makes 
 Rockstar not know what the **** to do in this genre. Saint's Row is just an overall fantastic game! 
 Like other crtitcs once sed "If GTA lit a fire under teh ass of teh gaming word, Saint's Row burns 
 teh whole ****ing house down!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostyGoat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is a game that many look at and say "Blah it's a GTA rip off, it sucks." Which this 
 game may have the same core game play of killing people, hi jacking cars, and such like GTA, it 
 expands onto that formula and adds alot of new and fun features the GTA series simply dosn't stand 
 up agaisnt. Story mode is by far better then any GTA game out there. Missions are fun (though a 
 bit easy at first till later on in that story line) , creative, and have great cut screens. The 
 average time for story line missions is anywhere between fifteen and twenty hours to complete it. 
 It's a decent period of time and all your just going to cry there isn't more to do in terms of 
 single player mode as it seriously just kicks asss. Outside the story mode missions but in the 
 single player part of the game still there is a crap load of stuff. The map is laid out with a 
 handful of different activties you can play for respect (what you need to do missions and obtain 
 new stuff) and money (everyone needs money) . There are activites such as...
  
  Insurance Fraud, Missions where you throw yourself into harms way to earn money.
  
  Hi-jacking, 
 Taking certain vechiles usually off local gang members and returning it to point A before you die. 
 Snatch, Kill pimps and take their hoes.
  
  Hitman, Obviously you kill people, but you got to find them (not always that easy) and kill them 
 with a certain weapon.
  
  Mayhem, Missions where you most cause property damage equal to a sum of money.
  
  There are 
 a few others but those are the primary fun ones IMO. Point is there are a pleanty of activites 
 to do which are all a blast to do. They earn you un-lockable vechiles, clothing, and items.
  
  Clothing is another plus as there is a unlimited amount of articles of clothing, piercings, 
 tattoos, jewelry to pimp your character out in. Then you can't forget the car dealerships where 
 you can deck out your rides with new rims, tires, mufflers, anything you want they got it. Single 
 player mode just has tons and tons of goodies to throw at you.
  
  MULTIPLAYER. The games multiplayer isn't going to win any awards for best Deathmatchs or multiplayer 
 period, it is however fun enough to keep you coming back for a little while. There isn't alot of 
 different game types (Death Match, Big Ass Chains (DM basically) , Protect Tha Pimp, and Blinged Out 
 Ride (my personal favorite) ) however like I said they are entertaining enough to keep you playing 
 for a week or so. For anyone that likes to skull f**king random citizens/gangsta in a very simple 
 yet addicating manner, this is a game for you. It will make you a offer, that you can not refuse. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDGRUNTY11
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  this is GTA but with much better graphics and i think better gameplay. True you can't fly a airplane 
 or drive a boat or use a parashoot or ride a motorcycle but gangsters don't do that stuff they 
 stick to cars. it has a surprisingly good multiplayer with a slight lag problem but still great. 
 has a great array of different custimizations for your characters and cars. you have a cell phone 
 to call your "homies" and it has those awsome talk radio stations. one of the best things is that 
 there are stores everywhere and most can be robbed at gun point or by sneaking in and cracking 
 the safe. NO LOADING TIMES WHEN YOU GO INTO AND OUT OF STORES!!! one of the things i really didn't 
 like was that at the end of the game you don't get to keep playing you have to start over or go 
 to your last save. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionpants
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Sure, when I first saw this game on a video trailer at EB Games, I said to myself; "Wow, just what 
 we need another GTA rip off".
  
  I finally picked the game up and, wow. Don't get me wrong, it does contain alot that GTA does, 
 sometimes you even think they used the same code. But what Saints Row does, it does it better.
 
  
  You start the game being able to create and customize your own character. The character costumization 
 reminded me of Oblivion. The story of the game involves you joining the Third Street Saints and 
 trying to conquer the city of Stilwater.
  
  If you like these kinds of games, this one will definitely tide you over until the next GTA comes 
 out. The graphics are superb, the explosions are eye-candy and the gameplay is tight and solid.
 
  
  If you don't mind the minor glitches in the game, go pick it up today. You wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdbthexboxgamr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  Well it looks like the folks at THQ and Volition decided to step up to the plate and see what they 
 could do with their own sandbox game entitled Saints Row. I am here to tell you right now that 
 if you looked at some videos and just shrugged this game off as just some GTA rip off, that was 
 a bad mistake, because if you like the GTA games, you will love Saints Row, trust me on this one!
 
  
  Graphically this title is mostly impressive, the cities are highly detailed and the cars look nice 
 especially on an HD set, the character models look a bit low poly but still do the job nicely. Framerate 
 wise is where this game is lacking, it just won't stay steady, it is all over the place, sometimes 
 it will be a smooth as silk but when the action gets hot or if there is alot of buildings and people 
 around it goes way down and gets ugly. There are also some performance issues with the games physics, which 
 I mean glitches. I have seen some wacky glitches in my 30 or so hours i put into this game, like 
 in a bar I see this guys head sticking out of the ground and more stuff like that. Please do not 
 get me wrong though, yeah it has minor glitch and frame rate issues but the game plays solid and 
 I highly recommend it.
  
  The mission variety is ok, and by ok I mean you might get tired of them, and then you might not, they 
 mostly consist of you in a car chasing down a certain car trying to blow it up or you on foot going 
 through a building blasting away rival gang members. The good thing is that the on foot action 
 plays great, much like a dedicated third person shooter. The vehicle combat might take some getting 
 used to since you will have to aim your reticle one direction and steer your car the other direction.
 
  
  Overall this is a solid game but not without its faults but still a highly recommended title for 
 those who are looking for a game to make the wait for GTA IV a little easier. It has all the things 
 you would expect from a GTA game, lots of missions, radio stations with djs, lots of cars but in this 
 game you can customise, and the ability to wreak havoc on any person you want to!. So please don't 
 automatically dismiss this game just because you might think it rips off the beloved GTA series, because 
 it has some things in it that Rockstar might want to take some notes on. 
  Thanks for reading and I say......... pick this game up, if you are not sure, at least rent it you 
 just might like it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matranok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is no doubt one the best games to date that Xbox 360 has to offer. It closely follows 
 the same experience you would have if playing any of the grand theft auto series, however unlike 
 True Crimes it does a successfull jobs in doing so. There are enough minor missions to keep you 
 occupied for days and the actual missions which count towards the plot and flow of the story are 
 awesome to play. The only downside to this is the games stabality. The games graphics are awesome 
 like when you blow up a car. It seriously looks unreal. But constant glitching and frame cutting 
 lessen the over all next gen experience. However despite this it is still worth the money and is 
 a must game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac200913
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Great game, really. I usually hate all tha other GTA - copies, but THis is definitly an exception. 
 It has a great city and its pretty big. Tha graphics are awesome, but it does have a few small 
 glitches. I love tha freedom it has in it and i love how you can do a lot of tha extra small THings 
 you couldnt do in GTA, like start hold ups, rob stores at night, take hostages, etc. It also has 
 tons of cool cars and nice variety of weapons. But honestly i would still choose San Andreas over 
 THis, but i still strongly recommend Saints Row. If you have an XBOX 360 and enjoy THese types 
 of games, consider trying THis game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paradoxes
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Lately, when I buy a new game, I find myself analyzing every facet of the design as I play. How 
 are the textures? Level design? Controls? More often than not, I find a flaw that takes away from 
 the total experience and makes the game far less enjoyable. Interestingly, this was not the case 
 with Saints Row. Not to say that there aren't problems - there are a few small ones - but from 
 the beginning, I was having so much fun that I completely forgot to analyze the details. Simply 
 put, the game is a lot of fun to play. The dynamic environment, various side challenges, and options 
 on storyline advancement combine to create an exciting and challenging atmosphere. The controls 
 are as expected and more than adequate for dealing with the situations you find yourself in, although 
 the camera sometimes gets a bit squirrelly. Saints Row really shines in one area, though, and that 
 is its cutscenes. Outstanding character movement and scripting with the voices of Keith David, 
 Michael Rapaport, and Michael Clarke Duncan (just to name a few) elevates the quality of this game 
 even higher. Keith David, in particular, is so effective as Julius, the leader of the Saints, that 
 you find yourself feeling a little thrill of pride when he compliments you. The cutscenes just 
 do exactly what they're supposed to do - complete the immersive experience. Add to all of this 
 the ability to customize your wardrobe and (stolen) cars in almost infinite variety in both singleplayer 
 and online modes, and you've got a real winner - something the 360 still needs more of. The small 
 graphics and camera glitches will do nothing to detract from this game unless you're neurotically 
 obsessive-compulsive about such things. With a fifty hour single-player campaign and multiple online 
 modes, this game will keep you coming back to the bullet-riddled streets of Stilwater - strapped 
 and ready to roll. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watrboy821
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  dis game is lac-king mad good tings from gta3 like da motorcicles hellakopters and plains but it 
 also got its own good stuff like drug traffic-king and demalation derby which was a game in itself 
 on playstation but drug traffic-king is allsome axecept for the time me car blew up but me and 
 my homie peced that jawn but the fuzz's car ran my ass ova and i gout the bustd that **** is glit 
 chee right there and the facts that **** gets rained through like overpasses bridges like that 
 song stinky bridges and freckle **** should not cost 100 chips for a handburgar also the cops are 
 unfathomably timid or meek (I can't decide which one) one last word, wu tang clan aint nuttin to 
 f*ck wit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoHn-CeNa346
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 9, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is suppose to be a rip-off of GTA. WRONG!! Saints Row is a very enjoyable game. It copy's 
 GTA in some aspects but it does have some solid features of its own. First one of the list is Xbox 
 Live. Up to 12 people can play at the same time. You can play 6 different game types including 
 Gangsta Brawl, Team Gangsta Brawl, Big as$ Chains, Team Big as$ Chains, Blinged out Ride, and Protect 
 tha Pimp. Ok, enough about Xbox Live, Single player is what you say, Off tha hook! You are a member 
 of the 3rd Street Saints. The main objective is to take over Stilwater by capturing "hoods". The 
 hard part is that there are 3 other gangs trying to do the same thing. The other gangs are West 
 Side Rollerz, Vice Kings, and Los Carnales. So what you do is you do little activities such as 
 throwing yourself into cars in insurance fraud to earn respect. When you earn enough respect you 
 get to do a mission. Every mission has to do with you and another gang. If you dont like doing 
 missions you can always roam around the city of Stilwater. Its really enjoyable when you have another 
 gang and cops trying to kill you at the same time. When this happens you can go back to your hood 
 with your "homies" and there is some really fun wars. If you like GTA and waiting for the next 
 one, I suggest you pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwatTeam14
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the BEST gang games ever. . . If you have a xbox 360 you must go and buy, + The 
 fun of insurace foud, Street Racing, Snatch Missions, Hickjacking missions + More. . . The clothing 
 section isnt that big. . . It would of been been better if you could get more "GangsteR" cloths 
 like the Vice kings have ( Bandanas around the head-mouths-ect...) The coolest gangs are the Vice 
 Kings and West Side Rollerz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatewating
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Love the game awesome story, amazing graphics, really cool unlockables, awesome character customization, 
 I could go on and on about this game but this game is basically one word and that is AWESOME!!! 
 Story line really gets you going and trying to figure out what is going on. Awesome thing to play 
 while waiting for GTA IV!! Like I said before a must buy for people who like those GTA kind of 
 games!! My last words are.......... BUY THIS GAME!!!!!! The only downfall was well..... the ending 
 BUT that is the only downfall aside from there being no motorcycles, planes, boats, or helicopters! 
 ALL IN ALL GEAT GAME!!
  
  Gameplay=10
  Graphics=10
  Sound=10
  Value=10- DEFINITELY
  Tilt =9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdever32
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  In a game where you pour a 40-oz on a dead guy to revive him, it's clearly not a game that intends 
 to change the world of gaming. In fact, as you already know, it's extremely similar to the Grand 
 Theft Auto series. Most games that have heavily copied GTA have been pretty bad (DRIV3R especially) , 
 but this one is an exception. Gameplay: I give it an 8. Definitely good, but I've had a very annoyances. 
 I don't know if it's just me, but the aiming of the guns is a little twitchy for my taste. It's 
 not terrible, but I'd like it to be a little smoother. The vehicle behavior is very important in 
 a game like this. I like the way the cars drive. It took me a little while to get used to it, but 
 overall it is well done. The storyline so far is good enough. It's your typical gang banging scenarios, 
 but that's not a bad thing really. The environment is well done also. It has a nice feel to it.
 
  
  Graphics: I give it a 9; overall very good. The explosions are quite nice, and the special effects 
 from certain weapons are well done. It's pretty much what you'd expect from a 360 game, but not 
 deserving of a 10.
  
  Sound: 9 here... nothing spectacular, but again well done.
  
  Value: 9 again. Many hours of fun gameplay give this a really good value for the dollar.
  
 
  Overall, I really enjoy this game so far. It has a lot of nice little touches like being able 
 to store your cars and the unique insurance fraud missions. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterdeath31
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 8, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is the newest GTA clone to hit the market the only reason SR stands out is well......... it's 
 actually a very good game. From the amazing sound and awsome and occasionally glitchy graphics; 
 it's got it. The cars are awsome the guns are cool. I actually enjoyed this game more than GTA 
 mainly because the missions were actually fun. Your character can look like anything you want wich 
 really adds your personality in the game. Although GTA: San Andreas was awsome i hated it because 
 there was a linear mission structure were you couldn't advance through the game cause of some retarded 
 racing mission. SR allows you to choose to advance in three seperate story paths simultaniously... cool. 
 The price for this is less of a game. There is no flyable choppers or planes; There isn't even 
 motorcycles. Although that doesn't ruin the game it deos leave you wanting them. I also thought 
 the ending was horrible but i won't get into it, i'll let every one find that out for themselves. 
 overall SR is a great game if you're in to gangster games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrzyOz300
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  The games single player is pretty good considering it's got a few celebrety voices in it. The sound 
 is pretty amazing and the story is pretty interesting. But what seperates this game from GTA is 
 th multi player. The Online battles are pretty amazing but the biggest issue is the lag. It's lag 
 put's halo 2's to shame. When the game doesn't lag it can be very fun and the challenge to get 
 more expensive close and considering the fact that the adverage money you'll make is about $60. 
 and some item's cost up to $3000. If you enjoyed GTA you'll love this game just stop looking at 
 it as a copy of GTA just because they make a game like GTA doesn't mean that it's automatically 
 a dumb game give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAyQ2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  the game can has it flaws while playing this game but in some areas it makes up.. even though every 
 ones argues this is a gta rip off i dont think so, this game introduces the new mechanics of using 
 the activity within the game to build repsect to take on a mission which i can say this is some 
 what next gen but most of the gameplay is taking from the aspecs of gta but then again you cant 
 called saints row a clone or any other game a clone.. look at this way if saints row is a clone 
 of gta you might is well call any shooter game a clone of the legendary doom series becomes doom 
 is the one who actually introduce that style of gameplay.. but back to the topic if you think about 
 gta has been outdated it sr has just step with it newly found style series of gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXHackettXx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Saints Row, I thought it would just be another Grand Theft Auto clone 
 that failed. I've seen it all before with games like The Godfather, TrueCrime, and Narc. All trying 
 to beat Grand Theft Auto and all falling very short. But true crime is different, sure its a clone 
 of Grand Theft Auto, but how can you give it a low score if it takes everything then Grand Theft 
 Auto did and made it better? Everything about the game is great. If you havnt picked it up yet, 
 or been one of the thousands that downloaded the demo, you should go out and get it right now. 
 Everything about the game feels right, from the way your guy walks to the way the cars handle corners. 
 I love the respect idea and have had a great time doing the hitman and pimping missions to get 
 some respect, do advance the story. My only complaints is that its not long enough, but then theirs 
 the amazingly addictive multiplayer. My favorite so far is protect the pimp. Where its six on six 
 and the pimp has to escape before the other six hitman can kill him. He doesnt have a weapon, but 
 is extra strong, and has a one hit kill pimp slap up close.
  
  If you own a 360, then you have to own Saints Row! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattius1989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 8, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Over the years the free-roaming game market has been pretty much dominated by the Grand Theft Auto 
 series. But it has been announced that we can expect a long wait for the next instalment in the 
 GTA series (about 400 days at the time of writing this review) . So many people need to find their 
 fix for mayhem and destruction whenever they want it elsewhere. Saints Row answers the call for 
 the Xbox 360 owners. Their are the obvious next - gen improvements like better sounds and graphics, 
 which go a long way to making this genre so much more enjoyable and immersive. As well as the achievement 
 system for the Xbox 360. But then there are so many more improvements on the GTA formula that make 
 this game more than just a basic pretty looking clone of the Rockstar Games series. The single 
 player component opens up with you creating a character. Something that a lot of fans of GTA have 
 always wanted. A chance to really be who they want to be in the game. You can choose from any skin 
 tone (that is human... no orcs) , any build - muscles or rolls, hair colour, face shape and the rest. 
 All aspects of a human creation system in a game are covered in depth. A good feature implemented 
 into this game is that you can change how you look in the game if you are later unsatisfied by 
 paying a visit to the plastic surgeon - which admittedly I haven't yet tried. When you are done 
 here you go on to a cut-scene. The cut-scenes seem to use the game engine, but they add a few affects 
 that make the game look a bit like Fight Night Round 3 in the graphics department. In this cut 
 scene you get caught up in a gang shoot-out between 3 local gangs. You are in the sights of a gang 
 member but are saved by 2 other purple clad gun wielding gangsters. They help you up and ask for 
 your help in getting back their territory pretty much, and the scene ends. It is quite impressive 
 at first to see how your character (no matter how he looks) is used fully in the cut-scenes. But 
 he doesn't seem to talk - which many have seen as a take on the GTA3 character - Claude. You are 
 told to swing by the church for your duties and then left to your own choices. Thus, your controlling 
 of the character begins. When the game opens up to your control you can plainly see that the next 
 gen graphics are in use. While not at the Table Tennis or FNR3 level (for size of the game reasons) 
 they are definitely a marked improvement over GTA: SA. I like to compare the graphics to something 
 a healthy deal better than the Outfit at its best, but dont quote me on that. There are good shadows 
 and decent contrast between light and dark and great reflections. From here you can carry on with 
 the story or go around causing mayhem from the start. But your choices will be limited as money 
 is tight until you start taking part in the main story missions and side line activities. So lets 
 assume you take the main story on from the get go, which brings me to my first negative. The mission 
 variety. The duration of the mission based story will consist of you getting somewhere in a car, 
 killing a particular person or group of people... and that's about it. It all comes down to killing 
 somebody in the end. But the missions are still fun as they are driven by the interesting story 
 that is voiced by actors such as Michael Clarke Duncan, and the voice actor for Meg from family 
 guy to name a few. You won't notice the repetitiveness of the missions until you finish the game 
 and think back on what you did for missions. It is still an enjoyable experience nonetheless. Aside 
 from the main story missions, there are side activities you can take part in that earn you respect 
 and money and other little bonuses. For example there is the mayhem activity, you go around causing 
 as much destruction in 5 minutes in one area without being "busted" or "smoked". Points come out 
 as the cost of destruction you have caused. Meet the requirement - and you get paid. This can be 
 really fun because it gives you a chance to run riot - while the game also shows you one of its 
 strong points... the explosion effects. The game has an amazing explosion effects system. The car 
 will explode and will fly into the air with realistic looking flames, and the fragments of metal 
 will fly through the air damaging surrounding people and objects. In most cases the passengers 
 of cars are ejected from the vehicle during an explosion in a giant fireball. It can be really 
 great fun to watch a chain of 10 cars going off. But then there is a another weakness to be noted. 
 When you have full wanted level and cars are blowing up left right and centre you will notice a 
 severe drop in frame rate. It is only noticeable in severely action packed scenes, but it is still 
 there. It's a drawback to having beautiful visuals and strong effects. You will be pleased to know 
 that the frame rate is steady throughout the rest of the game though. Maybe a 1 or 2 frame loss 
 in minor action scenes, but nothing that ruins the gameplay in any way. There are many little side 
 missions to take part in that are great fun, but I won't spoil the surprise for future buyers. 
 The side missions lead to achievement points and other bonus features, as well as money and respect. 
 The features can be weapons delivered to your hideouts or cars delivered to your garages. The garage 
 system in the game is a fantastic feature that hugely improves the typical system that GTA3 to 
 GTA: SA employed. Instead of having a car limit you just pop the cars in your garage and they are 
 saved in a list. When the cars are saved you go to a garage or a car repair centre (Rim Jobs) and 
 bring up the list. Even if the cars are no longer in the garage (say you parked them and forgot 
 where you put them) , as long as they were saved at some point in your garage and added to the list, 
 you can retrieve them. There is no limit to how many cars you can house. Which brings me round 
 to the car tuning feature. This feature is fantastic. It is so much more in-depth than that of 
 GTA: SA. You can select from a list of body kits and spoilers etc that are unique to each car. So 
 no car has the same two parts. This allows for huge variety in what cars you drive around in. There 
 are about 200+ colours to choose from that range from basic matte paint to iridescent paints. You 
 can make your cars truly shine and look fantastic. This is a feature you will definitely spend 
 a lot of time if you like making your cars look the part. Then there is the clothing customisation. 
 There are hundreds of different clothing combinations. Because you can change the colour of the 
 piece you are buying to suit you. So you can choose between a tan leather jacket or a black leather 
 jacket for example. Then you can choose whether to have that coat zipped or unzipped. All clothes 
 are then sent to your hideouts wardrobes as you buy them. So if you feel like setting a different 
 look for your character then you can pop round to your "crib" and change. This, combined with the 
 plastic surgery leaves you with a character that can look good in anything as long as you customise 
 enough. The gunplay is fantastic. Instead of an auto-lock system you have a movable crosshair that 
 you control whenever with the right thumbstick (by default) . It is like the shooting system on 
 the PC versions of GTA: SA. This allows for headshots and specific shooting on certain parts of 
 cars and the ability to spray weapons. The character controlling is simple, just move with the 
 left thumbstick (by default) . As is the car controlling: A to accelerate and X to brake with the 
 LT for the handbrake. The control system cannot be faulted. The downsides of the game are very 
 few in the upsides, but they are still noticeable, especially in the case of the multiplayer component. 
 It is nearly unplayable in most cases. It is like every player is suffering tremendously high lag, 
 and it can be very frustrating. But Call of Duty 2 suffered the same problems on the 360, and they 
 were addressed, and now Call of Duty 2 multiplayer is one of the most played online 360 games. 
 There has been a patch announced for Saints Row multiplayer, so it is only a matter of time before 
 these problems are addressed and fixed. Another thing is the lack of land to play with. The game 
 is about the size of GTA3, so when put against GTA: SA, it is quite disappointing, especially for 
 a next gen game. But there is lots to do in the comparatively small space that it doesn't matter 
 so much. The last bad point is that the story seems too short and leaves you wanting a lot more, 
 as it turns out to be a very gripping story, so that is a bit of a let down. The game is still 
 fully playable when you finish all the main missions though, so the game is in a way never ending. 
 For those that love GTA or action games in general, be sure to check out Saints Row as soon as 
 possible. You will not be disappointed by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooretg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  I started not really liking this game to be honest. After a couple of hours all I can say is WOW!!!! 
 This is one of the most fun games I have ever played. It is a much better game than GTA (all of 
 them) . Yah, it is missing some of the GTA features but the overall game just plays much better 
 and is alot more fun. The best feature is by far the waypoint option where you can set where you 
 would like to go and it gives you the best path. It even resets the path if you miss a turn. Also, 
 the save feature is great. You can save anywhere in the game and it saves to the closest save point. 
 If you have doubts, do not have them anymore. This is a definite BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Saul
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  =) Presentation; activities; character creation; customization; online modes; soundtrack
  
  = ( Ally driver missions; no motorcycles, boats or aircraft; some occasional minor bugs
  
  =_= 
 Introduction =_=
  
  Saints Row is a heavily GTA inspired game exclusively for Xbox 360. Saints Row reminds you of San 
 Andreas pretty much from the start. There have been many clones of GTA over the years, so why would 
 this one be any good? The simple answer is: because it is the first game to be just as or even 
 more fun then any GTA game.
  
  =_= Facts =_=
  
  In Saints Row, you build your own character before you start the game. You can create the character 
 pretty much exactly how you want it. The creating goes deep. From eyebrow depths and hights, to 
 muscle and fat. You shouldnt have too hard of a time creating yourself in this game.
  
  After you created your character you get a cutscene of you walking around minding your own business. 
 After a short time you witness three of the four gangs of Stilwater (the city in Saints Row) having 
 a shootout. After you almost got killed for witnessing it, you are saved by the fourth gang in 
 Stilwater; the 3rd Street Saints, wearing purple. The other gangs are the Vice Kings, African American 
 gang wearing yellow. Los Carnales, Cuban, Mexican gang wearing red. Finally, the Westside Rollerz, 
 car freak gang wearing blue.
  
  After you are saved by the Saints, you can start walking around in the city of Stilwater. You can 
 do some stuff, but in order to really progress you need to join the Saints gang. After you do this 
 you have to reclaim the Saints territory since the Saints were almost completely whiped out. After 
 you have done this you can take up missions for the Saints. Missions are divided by gangs. You 
 can choose to take Los Carnales, Vice Kings or Westside Rollerz missions, in any order you want. 
 However, in order to take up missions in Saints Row, respect is required. You gain respect by completing 
 missions, strongholds and activities mainly. Stronghold missions is when you progressed in missions 
 of a gang enough to try and take some territory from them. If you gain territory you will earn 
 more money per day. Though other gangs sometimes attack your territory and you need to defend it 
 against them.
  
  Activities, unlike missions and strongholds, can be done whenever you want and you get a good deal 
 of respect for it. Activities involve things like drug dealing, hitman assassinations, car hijacking, 
 stealing prostitutes from pimps, causing mayhem, street racing, escorting service, destruction 
 derby, insurance fraud and stealing specific cars. In short, you can do alot of stuff.
  
  The online part of the game sadly does not really occur in the city itself. More in standard maps 
 like your standard shooter. This does not mean the online is nothing to go by though. There are 
 some fun modes in it with cool names like Gangsta Brawl, Big Ass Chains and so on. You also earn 
 money in multiplayer as you win and loose games. For a win you get more cash then for a loss. Money 
 can be spend on clothing, jewels or tattoos to customize your character online. The fun part is 
 that the money you earn isnt alot. So expect to be able to purchase that shirt you wanted after 
 like 5 wins or 10 losses.
  
  The online part does lack servers you can create yourself. You always get teamed up with people 
 who have the same rank as you, which is a nice idea, but you should be able to play matches with 
 whoever you want to. A patch is being made for Saints Row though, supposible taking care of this 
 problem.
  
  =_= Opinion =_=
  
  The great thing about Saints Row is that it is much more solid then GTA. The cars, although still 
 not good, drive significantly better then in GTA. Shooting, walking, running, climbing and swimming 
 all works better then in GTA. The police also does not use weird off the road slam tactics like 
 in GTA, but really chase you down and try to tailwhip you.
  
  Explosions, gunfire and engine sound looks and sounds all better then in GTA. The presentation 
 of Saints Row also is alot better then that of GTA. In short: people shouldnt complain about Saints 
 Row copying GTA. Saints Row is just a videogame in the free roam genre. A genre Rockstar put 
 on the map. However, do we call each shooter a Doom copy? No, we dont. As we shouldnt with this. 
 Saints Row is a great game in its own right and to a certain extend it plays better then any GTA 
 game made.
  
  That doesnt mean there is nothing wrong with Saints Row. Some missions for instance include an 
 AI driver who drives while you need to shoot. The intellegence of these drivers is absymal. You 
 will find yourself trapped behind a corner frequently, or just hitting everything thats on the 
 road, causing you to retry the mission. The game also expects you to be able to drive and shoot 
 at the same time in some missions. Its just extremely annoying to aim while driving. At some of 
 the higher missions this will get very frustrating.
  
  Saints Row also lacks any transportation besides cars. All you can drive or use is cars, which 
 is a little hard to forgive to a game of this time not to have even one kind of motorcycles.
  
  =_= Conclusion =_=
  
  All and all, Saints Row proved itself a worthy opponent for the GTA 
 franchise. There are some issues with the game that are hard to forgive, but in the end the game 
 is just very fun to play. I hope Volition Inc and THQ make a franchise out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahj006
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row is nothing more than a GTA clone , the gameplay is great
  ,ghraphic could been done better and the sound is ok ...
  
  The main character on Saint's Row 
 looks very similar to the one in GTA games ... Simply THQ has taken every game unit from GTA , edited 
 it and reinstalled it on Saint's Row ...
  
  Saint's Row is going to boost the sales of the Xbox 360 as GTA has really affected the sales of 
 the PS2 and it's going to give GTA fans an enjoyable time.
  
  last thing i wanted to say is that the game really worth the money that is paid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattiasmak
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row (SR) is purely a GTA-clone. If you liked GTA: San Andreas you know what you will get 
 here. GTA is much deeper than SR, but SR gives GTA good competition and raises the bar for free 
 roaming games.
  
  SR i very entertaining. There's a lot to do and the graphics are great (and I've only played it 
 on a regular TV) . The voice work is mostly amazing and the cut scenes looks awesome.
  
  And com'on. You know you love th fact that blasting a city apart will get you chaed by the finest 
 blue. And FBI.
  
  Saint's row is a great game that will last until GTA4. And the fact is that it improves the formula 
 in a lot of parts, especially the aming. Bringing a fist person aiming into a thrd person game 
 like this one was an excellent idea. Cus' we NEVER liked the lock on function from GTA.
  
  Go buy and show of your 360 to your friends. Cus' they probably played GTA, and this will show 
 them that the next-gen is here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokedaz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  Many are against GTA wannabe's and so am I really, none have ever come close to being as fun or 
 long lasting. But Saints Row is right up there. It is quite scary how many likenesses there are 
 in the game compared with grand theft auto, but to be honest who cares. If those features were 
 liked before then why not put it in the game. Much better gameplay as of the shooting mechanics 
 and weapon select, being able to pickup and drop weapons, and having your homies pickup better 
 weapons too.
  
  Supprisingly good online play also, not many maps but Protect tha pimp and team gangsta brawl are 
 easyily addictive.
  
  
  Pretty much Saints row is a remake of an old classic which takes off, in its own way, but at the 
 same time not trying to compete, simply just taking what you like and throwing in better graphics, 
 havoc engine, online play and pretty much all the tiny things that you wanted to be included in 
 San Andreas but never made it.
  
  Simply great, and if you dont enjoy it just alittle bit you either dont like this genre or you 
 only want to play arcade games eat food and go to the gym, so go back to playing san andreas. But 
 what that game lacked was good shooting mechanics, which saints row has, which will make the whole 
 game much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdZero54
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 7, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Is it bad to have a twin? Some people with twins might say so, others not so much. While Saints 
 Row is a new romp through a fake city, Stillwater, it seems very familiar. Those of you that have 
 played Grand Theft Auto III, Vice City or San Andreas will feel right at home here. Saint's Row 
 does the tried and true mission base that the guys over at Rockstar have done for years, even before 
 GTA III. Is that a bad thing? Probably not. While Saint's Row does use close to the same formula, 
 it is a lot different. It offers different side missions, better graphics and better controls. 
 It still has the same wacky radio stations, the gun play and tongue-in-cheek comedy at times.
 
  The down side to Saint's Row is that you can't just play the main story line. The "respect" aspect 
 of the game requires you to play side missions to gain respect before you can continue the main 
 story lines. While some of you might like that part, I didn't. Those of you with a limited time 
 base or that just rented the game, your playing time is going to have to be expanded a lot. You 
 might not finish the main plot because you have to drive Ms. Daisy around. The side missions aren't 
 bad, but they do get repetitive after a while.
  It comes down to Saint's Row not being a bad game, it just doesn't do anything different. The only 
 thing you need to ask yourself is which one do you like better: Coca-Cola or Pepsi? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nextrol
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for good 360 titles all Summer. Dead Rising was fantastic, and it made me glad 
 to own a 360, but even whilst I was killing zombies, I wondered as to what game would grab me next. 
 I cannot say that Saints Row is revolutionary, nor did it grasp my attention as more recent games, 
 or the GTA series did; it is however quite fun in it's own respect. Saints row is not a horribly 
 inconsistent rip-off of GTA like so many other clones. Through it's presentation it almost states 
 itself as being a copy or homage to the famous series, but has some distinguishing features in 
 it's own right as well. The gameplay is just as open-eneded as GTA if not more so. As said in the 
 Gamepsot official review, you can travel to any area in the city almost immidently after you begin 
 the game. The game contains a central storyline revolving around the redemption and conquest of 
 a street gang called the 3rd Street Saints, with your custom-created charcter being in the middle 
 of it all. This however does increase the linearity of the game in the least bit, and infact requires 
 you to explore the city and undertake various "side-quests" in order to gain respect and thereby 
 advance the storyline. The amount of activities you can engage in the game is quite impressive, 
 everything from appearance customization and buying weapons, to dealing drugs and pimping hos... 
 in short, everything one would expect from a game of this genre. You can of course, just run about 
 and kill innocent people as well. There are little differences from the GTA series as well, such 
 as how you can actually store cars in your garage permanently and call upon or "spawn" them as 
 often as you like. You can aquire gang attention as well as police attention, which will amount 
 to rival gang members attacking you increasing numbers depending on how many you kill, not disimilar 
 from the wanted stars system in the GTA series. Your character also gets a cell phone, which you 
 can use to call in-game services, characters, and even input cheat codes. When I first got the 
 game, I immidently dialed 911 expecting nothing, but I was very surprised when an ambulance arrived 
 at my location with a paramedic to restore my health. The selection of cars you can drive is vast, 
 but don't expect to find motorcylces, planes, or boats that you can pilot. The visuals in the game 
 are nice, and you will definitely know that you are playing a next-gen game, although they are 
 not mind-blowing. There are certain visual anomalies, such as cars randomly disappearing, or textures 
 loading a bit slow, but nothng that completely ruins the game. I personally thought the explosions 
 were very well done and you can defnitley feel the heat and intensity of the blasts as if you were 
 there. The use of the famous Havok physics engine is cool, providing some of the best moments with 
 ragdolls and debris I've had since Gary's Mod for Half-Life 2. The audio presentation is nice as 
 well, especially the various weapon and car sound effects. The voiceovers are decent, but the dialouge 
 and characters aren't quite as charming and interesting as those in the GTA series. The musical 
 selection is nice, featuring good songs from all genres, although once again not as good as those 
 in the GTA series, at least not in my opinion. Like all 360 games, you can listen to music stored 
 on your Hard Drive via the dashboard browser, however it would have been nice to have a dedicated 
 radio station for listening to music, such as in the Xbox and PC versions of the GTA series. The 
 controls are good for the most part and very similar to the GTA series in their layout. Unlike 
 the GTA series, you now have 360 degrees of aim with your weapons while in car, which allows for 
 some very entertaining "cops and robbers" type action. The only thing I didn't like was the radial 
 weapon selection menu, I would have much rather prefered the classic "shoulder select" window version 
 featured in the GTA series. If you enjoyed the GTA series, you'll probably like this game, and 
 if you have a 360 you should definitley check it out regardless. Don't expect it to be quite as 
 compelling and epic as San Andreas or Vice City, but you will have some fun nontheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swk2000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 7, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Saints row is something that I feel has been needed in a long time. Ever since I got my 360, I 
 played games on it but nothing truly kept me coming back for more. However, when I placed my copy 
 of Saints Row into my machine I didn't stop playing it for 6 days, even when it was done it was 
 a neat little time waster, going out and collecting things, or just blowing up cars and watching 
 the flames.
  
  Saints Row stands ontop of GTA and borrows alot of aspects but also adds its own. When playing 
 it however I didnt think 'this rips off GTA' as your too busy enjoying the game and story to notice.
 
  
  This doesnt mean its not without its faults. Saints Row has quite a few glitches and has crashed 
 many times on other gamers machines, its run fine on mine however. Other glitches are usually minor, 
 yet sometimes frustrating, things such as falling through a floor and reapearing elsewhere. This 
 can be especially frustrating in a mission. Luckily the glitchs do not happen that frequently, 
 and sometimes not atall if your not looking for them.
  
  Gameplay: The story is short, very short, but that does not mean the game is not fun. Saints Row 
 keeps you going with extra objectives or missions long after you've finished the main story. The 
 multiplayer will also add to the time you play aslong as your into the deathmatch style gameplay 
 it offers. And aslong as they bring out the patch to stop the awful lag issues.
  
  Graphics: Personally, I liked the graphics. Some people have classed them as not being very good 
 but I think the feel to them just suits the genre of the game. Also remember when working with 
 a big playing feild the graphics cant be as good as the latest fps. Sound: The soundtrack is... 
 Not to my taste. I can not really say I like any of the songs on it, however if it is your taste 
 in music then your sure to love it.
  
  Value: For the money I think its worth it. I paid 10 less then the usual price and I dont want 
 to trade it in for a long time. Its definatly my most played Xbox 360 game besides Oblivion.
  
  IMO: I love this game and feel its a worthy addition to anyone who likes the GTA style of gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer525
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I got Saints Row yesterday. I started to play it and instantly it blew GTA away! It is my favorite 
 game ever!!!! I give its Game-play a 10, sound a 9, graphics a 10, the value is a 10 its just plane 
  I would play it for a long long long long time! 
 If you don't have it get it NOW!!! It is fun and has a great story nice customized cars ( thats 
 if you like that kind of stuff ) t just get it its worth the $money$ Its online games are so much 
 fun i don't like that you have to wait so long to start a game though : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  First off, you may go on to say that saints row is a blatant copy of the GTA series, well, you 
 might be right, see, saints row has practically the same formula as GTA, but its not as if using 
 this formula hasn't been done before.
  GTA III was a revolution in the art of free roam, it was the first free roam game on the PS2 that 
 combined great visuals in 3D and a great sense of freedom, now since that, many game developers 
 have used this formula to create what many people today call a "GTA clone", but in many peoples 
 heart GTA has remained the king of free roam games, (if you ask me its just being afraid to like 
 something else, or just being a fan boy)
  
  as a fan of GTA myself, yet still openly minded about any onther game that has tried the same formula, 
 the news of saints row never really made myself questionwill it be as good as GTAthats because 
 i couldn't care less, the way i see it, as long as i enjoy it thats all that matters
  
  as the series grew on to GTA: SA i really got tired, rockstar really did try to re-invent the game 
 that was still on the same engine, but by this time, it really needed a makeover, so GTA 4 will 
 have this brand new face
  
  there are features in saints row however, that stomp on GTA, and now we can only expect that GTA 
 4 will use some of these features, like it or not
  
  enough with the lecture, on with the review
  
  introduction:
  
  In saints row you play 
 as your own created character, who funnily enough runs into some gang warfare on the streets of 
 stilwater, from here on you are a member of the 3rd street saints, who never mind to flash their 
 purple rags
  
  gameplay:
  
  The gameplay in saints row is very solid, the shooting is spot on, you will never find yourself 
 struggling to cap someone in the face, driving is also very solid, but you don't ever really get 
 a great sense of speed from the cars.
  Saints row also gives you the ability to keep items in your inventory, these mainly consist ( well 
 really just consist) of food and drugs, yes drugs, these give you special effects, as you can imagine 
 food replenishes health and drugs give you hazy screen effect in different concentrations, but 
 that not all, they also give some crazy punching power, POW, you can send 'em flying.
  
  did i say flying, OH YES, Saints row proudly features the havok engine, which if you didn't already 
 know, allows a game to generate and simulate realistic physics, so this means : ragdoll baby!, 
 objects and pedestrians move realistically when hit , shot and shoved, this is a very nice feature 
 that saints row boasts.
  
  the city of stilwater can be very impressive at times, you get a real sense of city life by just 
 walking around, this is down to some well made attention to detail that Volition have created, 
 butterflies, fire flies, hobo's sleeping on benches and hobbling over a fire drum to keep them 
 selves warm, of course this only really ever occurs in the very run down parts of stilwater, you 
 will notice business men at the wealthier parts of town, and joggers in the morning, and hookers 
 at night and many more. Every day that passes in Saints row feels different, and that, in my opinion, 
 is what separates this from GTA (apart from the next gen features of course)
  
  the story is well acted and well written, i found my self just wanting to carry on the story just 
 to watch the cutscenes, they're great, the radio stations may not be your cutting edge GTA style 
 soundtrack and great radio voices, but Saints row really does have some realistic moments on radio, 
 for example: commercials let you know if a sale is on at local store, and there are weather reports 
 just like GTA: SA but far more frequent.
  
  and a real bonus is the mobile phone, you can call any number you see around town and you will 
 get messages from that firm, also you can call cabs to take you around the city, you can call 911 
 to get healed from an ambulance, you can also get 7 unique "homies" to join your side, just simply 
 call them up and they'll come to you in they're own car.
  
  also character customisation is a blast
  
  Graphics:
  
  the graphics in saints row are 
 quite impressive, but they are marred by some glitches, but there are great lighting effects, great 
 textures, and very impressive weather effects, the stormy weather is SO convincing, and not to 
 forget the explosions, with there heat haze and smoke
  
  Sound: sound wise, its great, nothing really to complain about, oh maybe the sound might cut out 
 for 2 seconds, but thats a glitch and should be treated like one, and it happens rarely
  
  Value:
  
  saints row has brilliant value, the story may be slightly short but there are great 
 activities to replay and also movie theatres that give you the ability to replay any mission, stronghold 
 and cutscene
  
  Tilt: i enjoy saints row very much, far more than any GTA game, unfortunately its only a matter 
 of time till GTA 4 will release a can of whoop ass on saints row, but i believe that volition could 
 bite back with saints row 2, play the game and you will see why
  
  but until then saints row will be your snack machine until the next GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelChavous
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  From the very start it has it all, Drug's, Sex , Rock N Roll. Top that off with some Guns, Knifes, 
 Clubs, and good ole fisticuffs. If you haven't played it, You need to as soon as possible. Once 
 you start, you cannot stop. The learning curve is easy, gameplay is addictive. Graphics are Sweet 
 (or what ever word that is hip nowadays) If you like GTA then you will LOVE this game. GTA is similar, 
 but cant hold a candle to this story line. The only downside is cost. $60.00. Is it me ,or are 
 games getting ridicuolously OVER Priced. I dont know how teens can afford to get Xbox 360 system 
 then pay $45.00 - $60.00 for games. Enough already
  
  Joel Chavous
  Griffin Ga 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerguy46
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 7, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of this and was semi-impressed. Well impressed enough to buy it anyway. I realized 
 soon after I finished the part of the game that was the demo that this game actually has a lot 
 more going for it. I won't be the first to note the graphics, they're nice, VERY nice. Ragdoll 
 physics was a bonus for me as well. The voice acting a lot of fun to listen to. They got a very 
 good cast of characters although my only beef is that the main character doesn't talk (at least 
 not yet, I haven't actually finished the game) . It would've been a nice addition but it doesn't 
 take away from the experience.
  
  The missions are fun. Some are the usual run in, kill everybody, get money/respect. But I think 
 my favorite ones are the hostage missions. For those that don't know what these are, if you jump 
 into a car that is carrying passengers as well, and take off right away, you'll have the option 
 to trigger the hostage mission. What this entails is you, driving while cops try to catch you. 
 If you can avoid them for whatever the specified time is, you'll get a certain amount of money 
 (from what I've found it's ranged from $300 to $1000) . Not hard, just fun. If you're a fan of the 
 GTA series, pick this up. If you'll be pissed because there are no bikes in the game... deal. My 
 vote is pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  It is said that bad artists borrow, while good artists steal. Although Volition jacked the GTA 
 formula from Rockstar like it was a Maibatsu Monstrosity with the motor running, they managed to 
 improve upon its game play in almost every respect. In fact the only aspect of Saints Row that 
 took a step back is the fairly generic gangsta' story and over the top approach to violence and 
 profanity. The story isn't horrible and doesn't detract from the experience in any significant 
 way, it's just doesn't quite reach the level of narrative sophistication that the GTA games always 
 have. (That's right... I just called GTA sophisticated.) .
  
  Saints Row is certainly not the 1st GTA knock off. There have in the past been a few decent games 
 that borrowed Rockstar's formula (the PC version of Mafia and The Simpsons Hit and Run come to 
 mind,) and many bad games which merely attempted to cash in on the success of the sandbox formula 
 (True Crime, Scrapland, et al.) Saints Row stands out from the pack by not only rising above these 
 clones, but by rising above the game on which it is based. Quite an accomplishment, considering 
 the size of the shoes it managed to fill.
  
  For the handful of people who have never played a GTA-style game before, they are all about giving 
 players a big urban environment and letting them engage in a large assortment of illegal activities, 
 many of which center around driving cars and shooting people. Normally I would never write a review 
 that made so many comparisons to another game, but in this case it's impossible to avoid, so if 
 you haven't played a GTA game before, you should go out and pick up a cheap used copy. It's almost 
 mandatory if you consider yourself a gamer these days, it's a great series of games, and you won't 
 be able to understand this review otherwise.
  
  What makes Saints Row superior to any other sandbox game yet are the responsive controls and exceptional 
 game play. GTA games have always had a lot to do, but beyond their serviceable driving scheme, 
 the series never really played all that well from a technical perspective. The clunky targeting 
 mechanics, confusing maps, and frustrating save system often made seemingly straightforward missions 
 needlessly complicated affairs that had to be replayed several times in order to compensate for 
 the poor controls. I am delighted to report that Saints Row raises the bar for sandbox game mechanics 
 to the point where Rockstar would be foolish not to incorporate the improvements into their next 
 GTA iteration..
  
  It is beyond the scope of this review to list all of the improvements Saints Row makes to the GTA 
 control scheme formula. Many of them are quite subtle, but some of them just jump right out at 
 a player conditioned by GTA. Some noteworthy improvements include; a magical garage that can store 
 as many cars as you like, the ability to shoot through windshields, the ability for a driver to 
 shoot 360 degrees around the car, the ability to save anywhere, accurate physics-based damage modeling 
 for the cars, and 1-hit-kill headshot capability with any ranged weapon. And yes, there's real-time 
 weapon switching based on a radial menu for quick access. (Boy, Ill sure miss E3.)
  
  There is a structure to Saints Row that was lacking in the GTA games, which gives the game a greater 
 focus on gaining new territories. Missions are divided into 2 types, side missions and story missions. 
 Side missions have to be completed to gain enough respect to then unlock the story missions, but 
 they are divided into numerous types, and a player can select which type of mission he or she wishes 
 to complete as they accrue respect. After building enough respect, story missions are unlocked 
 and allow the player to progress through the game.
  
  And the improvements don't end with Saints Rows game play. The graphics are truly gorgeous, especially 
 considering the scope of the game. Draw distances are particularly impressive, although occasionally 
 glitchy. The lighting is all based on actual light sources, including a dynamic sun that casts 
 real-time shadows. The quality and variety of animation dwarfs the venerable GTA games, and all 
 the characters look much more realistic as a result. There are no load times whatsoever, even when 
 entering buildings, and the sound excels in every way. The soundtrack is every bit as good as the 
 GTA games despite the fact that it consists of less popular artists, and the quality celebrity 
 voice acting is sure to immerse players. Another great addition that Saints Row brings to the table 
 is the ability to customize your character in any way imaginable. Players are given powerful tools 
 to create most anyone they want, and the end result is a palpable connection with the player character 
 the likes of which GTA has never achieved. What's more, all automobiles in the game can be taken 
 to the chop shop and tricked out in a similar fashion..
  
  As mentioned earlier, the story is the one aspect in which this game fails to exceed the high standards 
 established by GTA games. While GTA deals with different aspects of organized crime as the story 
 advances, Saints Row stays in the ghetto the whole time, never losing it's emphasis on gaining 
 more territory and killing members of the different rival gangs. It's not that Saints Row does 
 a bad job of handling it's gangsta' subject material, it's just that it never develops into more 
 than a gang warfare simulator, and anyone who has played the GTA games will notice a distinct lack 
 of story progression. Despite this lack of variety in Saints Rows story, the narrative is enjoyable, 
 albeit occasionally predictable and almost always clichd. Saints Row actually goes above and beyond 
 GTA in terms of profanity and violence, but the sense of humor is more overt and decidedly less 
 mature than Rockstar's games. Overall, the tone of Saints Row feels like they were trying a bit 
 too hard to be shocking, and there are times when it goes a bit too far with the profanity for 
 my tastes... political correctness is completely lacking from this title.
  
  Although the game has online 6 on 6 play featuring a variety of unique modes, it is laden with 
 bugs at launch and doesn't (at least at this point) approach the level of excellence of the single-player 
 game. Getting into a game can take a while, and often when you do get in, play is choppy and sometimes 
 prohibits voice-communication. Hopefully Volition will polish the online game play in their upcoming 
 patch, which they claim will be released shortly.
  
  There are also some technical problems with the single-player game. Probably the most noticeable 
 is the occasional disappearance of the streets and cars. This happens rarely, but the disorienting 
 effect of being unable to see critical game elements is impossible to ignore on an intense mission. 
 There is some seam tearing, which means that cutscenes and in game portions will show a horizontal 
 tear in the middle of the screen from time to time due to syncronization problems with the frame 
 rate. Furthermore, on 2 occasions while playing I lost all sound. Nothing a reboot didn't fix, 
 but still it is worth mentioning. Finally, the game has locked up on me a few times, forcing me 
 to reboot and start a mission from scratch, but it's impossible to say weather this is a problem 
 with the software or with the hardware.
  
  Saints Row is a great game, and will most likely sell systems based on its strengths, which are 
 numerous. GTA loyalists may resent Volition for so blatantly ripping-off their beloved franchise, 
 but will soon forgive them once they realize that Saints Row plays and looks better than the granddaddy 
 of sandbox games in almost every way. Sure, the story arc isn't as varied or well crafted, and 
 the sense of humor isn't as sophisticated, but given the other enumerable improvements to the tried-and-true 
 formula, these minor problems are easily dismissed. There are few games of this caliber on the 
 Xbox 360, or any other system for that matter, and Saints Row is easily recommendable to anyone 
 who even remotely enjoys video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazychris90
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game to me is probably the best game on this console, not only is it addictive, attractive 
 or just a damn spot-on storyline, it seems like there is a lot of things you can do. Starting from 
 scratch, you will have to create your character with a system not even The Sims 2 can beat. This 
 can be really unique. As you can customise every single measurement on your profile to make it 
 close enough to be perfect, well anyway mine didnt came out to be what I wanted it to be. This 
 is a very important stage of the game so you must spend time on it. It starts off when you are 
 walking down the streets of Stilwater and a bunch of gangs started having a war and you seem to 
 get in the middle of it. Two gang members from the Saints save your sorry ass and well, you get 
 recruited. From there you will team up with the Saints and help them to take over every damn territory 
 in Stilwater.
  
  Single-Player is probably the best mode in the game with its tensing storyline and pretty long 
 length. Missions are the main deal of the game, as these will lead you to success among the gangs 
 of Stilwater. The missions are slightly lengthier and needs you to do a lot more tasks than the 
 activities in the game, although I cant say that they will be any more difficult. After the 
 first to missions you will need to be build up the Respect bar. Build this bar up and you will 
 be able to access further missions and strongholds. But by doing this you will have to complete 
 some little tasks, i. e. there are a ton of activities in Stilwater (These basically are the best 
 choice) , choices from pimping, throwing yourself into on coming traffic to cheat insurance, delivering 
 vehicles to chop shops, hijacking vehicles and so on. Apart from the missions there are areas that 
 you need to take over, these are called strongholds. You will also need to boost your respect bar 
 up for these as well. Basically, all these are areas where you will either have to destroy certain 
 vehicles, gang members and other stuff to enable you to take over that certain area. The stores 
 are much more interesting than those in San Andreas. The one that caught my attention a lot was 
 the theatre, which enables you to look back at movie clips and replay missions from earlier in 
 the game, which is pretty awesome. Other stores vary from gun stores, clothes stores, music stores 
 and a hell of a lot more. There is much, much more to be discovered in single player so take my 
 review as a taster what Saints Row has for you.
  
  In this paragraph I will be talking about online Gameplay and whats good and not good on the net. 
 The best idea for online play is the ability to create your own gang and go against other gangs 
 online which is pretty good apart from the lagging and major glitches (Patch coming out soon) . 
 I created a gang and it is very, very simple as you only need put the name of the gang, the tag 
 of the gang, the URL (If you want to) and the motto. Ive got several people in my gang and you 
 can promote any member you like to be admin and stuff like that. Best played with about four friends 
 at the moment, as it can get very laggy, but thats no problem because you can have loads of fun 
 with your best friends. Another great thing is the waiting lobby. Its the best waiting lobby I 
 have ever waited in. Why? You may ask. If your friend is busy and he is doing something important 
 and he says something like Give me two seconds, Im just going to save. While hes doing that 
 you can battle it out in the lobby killing your mates before the match has even began. There are 
 a variety of matches you can play from a gangsta brawl (Same old basic death match) to Blinged 
 out ride (Probably the most confusing online mode existing) .
  
  The graphics is pretty stunning. Thats all I can say: pretty stunning. The city looks marvellous 
 and there is not one building that looks the same. The car sprites are probably one of the best 
 graphical objects on the game. The dents just look awesome. Probably the most letdowns graphical 
 part of the game is the faces of some characters, they just look out of date (Not talking about 
 the main chars) . The sound is fantastic and it makes the soundtrack on SA sound like poo in a toilet 
 (Not literally) . From hip-hop to all the old classic songs you cant go wrong with the modern music 
 industry.
  
  On the bullethole (Just playing with you) Ok, on the whole SR is truly a fantasy. A fantasy for 
 gangsters and hardcore GTA fanatics, even a fantasy for people who have never touched the case 
 of a GTA game, nothing can go terribly wrong with this game, surely. I hope you enjoyed this incredibly 
 long review.
  
  P. S. Phoenix Crawlers for life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danwesoly
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The graphics are good but not breath taking, the water is good etc and clothe physics, 
 But you gotta love the cut scenes =D
  
  Gameplay: Is brilliant and dosnt get tiresom, so fun running people over and with ragdoll physics 
 it brings a certain satisfaction
  
  Story: Abit linear but it still works, Characters come to life in cut scenes and bring more life 
 to the game. The missions get abit repetative but still very fun indeed
  
  Sound: The radio stations are brilliant with every genre possible! you gotta love the techno ****
 
  
  Overall: Definetly a game work getting, very fun, very solid, hardly any bugs, and who can say 
 no to knocking trains off their rails :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was ok at first kind of confused at first but I finally made a Middle eastern looking 
 guy to start as :D ok ok it was a waste of time to work 5 hours with all the advance customization 
 options but I look pimp :D
  
  As the game starts your piled with action up to your neck and it all happens in a new york minute! 
 Danm right! The music is perfect with the game and like ontop this game makes you feel like a badass 
 with the hair standing action non-stop. Some people may hate this game only because they either 
 (1. suck at it (2. can't tell good from bad (3. A sorry sob who has a ps2 and is a San Andreas 
 fan boy.
  
  This game is bigger than vice city but smaller than SA but the differance is the action, story, 
 cars, missions, ETC. Practically did everything GTA isn't. Saints Row is more on the action and 
 story than a sand box, it has soo much action with just cars you don't need planes or boats or 
 a tank! This thing is what being gangster is all about. (Except online when you have 10 and younger 
 kids playing the game that don't shutup and team kill... yeah kids on a rated M game... one of 
 them B*tched at me saying I'm standbying because he doesn't know what lag is...)
  
  Yeah just to get this off my chest... YOU CAN'T MOD, STANDY, OR ANYTHING ON A XBOX360: For example, 
 you standby the modem and your cut off xboxlive and your profile so you got to sign back online 
 into your profile meaning turning your modem on or off won't do anything but get you out of the 
 game. You can't mod because the danm thing is a solid metal box so if you do take the crow bar 
 to it don't expect it to work after you tore that hard drive apart. ONE LAST THING! Standbying 
 is only effective on xbox with halo2. Such noobs I swear!!
  
  The game is good none the less with the A. I. really smart your homies do make a differance when 
 u bring them along on a mission.
  
  So listen to me because I give word for word on games I don't give the game a bad review if i suck 
 at the game or it isn't my type.
  
  The game is worth it you can rent it but you got to get through the story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trojan-Tuba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is based off the idea of Grand Theft Auto. Someone who has played the grand theft auto 
 series will notice a similarity. You can do anything from steal cars to kill hookers and cops, 
 just like GTA. You play a White, Black, Hispanic, or an Asian guy. You choose. You have to become 
 a member of a small gang call the Saints. Now it is your job to clear the city of Stillwater of 
 the other gangs. The story it self is short and there not really much replay value unless you count 
 doing everything you did in GTA like killing EVERYBODY then this is the game for you. But once 
 you finish the game dont expect to continue running around on the same profile there arent any 
 bikes or motorcycles but its ok because there are a lot of different cars and all can be customize.
 
  The game is has a lot of glitches though. You will notice sometimes that you just appear in and 
 out of cars. And sometimes the radio in the cars will cut out at times. Now I dont know if it 
 something to make the game more realistic. But I didnt like it too much. And when you kill people 
 they do this little jump thing where they jump up a couple of feet when they die. The graphic are 
 awesome even with the glitches. I like the way the explosions look. You can see the heat wave just 
 come off it. And when cars explode the pieces go every where and can even hit and possibly kill 
 you. And the detail of the water is excellent. And a cool thing is that you dont have to swim 
 for hours trying to find a place to get but onto shore you can just press the Y button and you 
 appear on the closest landmass. But once youre in the water all you can do is swim or warp to 
 the shore. And another cool thing is that you are free to move everywhere in the city right from 
 the start. The only thing that is locked is people that you can call on your cell phone. There 
 are 7 of them, but Ive only found three of them.
  You can play it on Xbox Live but its not that great. Pretty much everything that Greg Kasavin 
 said about it is true. Like at times you will notice your health start to drop and then die without 
 you knowing what just happened. Live isnt what this game is really for but its interesting. And 
 dont expect a lot of people to be online in it. I recommend this game to all the GTA fans. Its 
 fun of the whole family. No I lied. This game is rated M for a reason. There is a lot of sex in 
 it but no nudity. And dont forget the beer and drugs, and killing. Not lot of blood though. In 
 fact I dont remember seeing blood at all. Its still fun though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Residentevil555
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  the best game ive have ever played their is no other game I will play untill gta 4 and thats a 
 whole year. definetly beats the gta series although i loved the gta series and I most definetly 
 want saints row to become a series game just like gta is. btw i love the rag doll physics it a 
 superb extension and should be made in all games also if it wasnt for rag doll physics i probably 
 would have preffered gta: sa. if there is anyone who hasnt played it and loved the gta series this 
 is a must get game for you and you will not be dissapionted simply because evrey aspect of the 
 game is just better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game looks like a cheap GTA Rip-off, and in many ways, it is. But with very fun activitys, 
 awesome character creation, and a cool storyline, it stands up to GTA with its fists balled up. Gameplay 
 is very fun, and making money is a breeze, the graphics look kinda cartooney, but are nicely animated. 
 The Voice actings awesome and the civilians say funny things. This game will defintely keep you 
 entertained until gta6! 8.7 Very unique style, and very very very very FUN! sigh i h8 100 words 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah YAY i think i hit 100!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gixxerman1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! Yes it's a GTA like game, but so is alot of games out there. Saint's Row just 
 seems to do it better and in HD. It's the little things that add to the gameplay. Like being able 
 to save anywhere instead of having to find your house to go back to. Being able to carry 4 things 
 of food with you at all times to eat during an intense battle. Your able to restore the health 
 of your homies by walking over to them and sprinkle some boose on them. And if you don't, so what, 
 it doesn't count against you like in San Andreas. Your homies actually help you out in stead of 
 being in your way when your shooting the enemy. You can also fix up cars to drive around and don't 
 worry about loosing them in a gun fight. You go to your garage and get them back and then take 
 them to the shop to fix. There is a ton of acivities to do in this game really making it a long 
 game. Nice thing is you have to do some of them to advance the story so you get a taste of everything.
 
  
  The explosions are the best part of the game for me. They are smart meaning if I blow up a car 
 driving at me the car will go flying depending on where I hit the car with my RPG. I've smaked 
 the front end of the car into the ground while the driver came flying out the windshield on fire 
 at me. That's good stuff!! The enviroment is always active and at night the stores close. So you 
 can rob them or wait until morning to buy something. There is always something little going on 
 around you. Either people talking to you when you pass by to hearing an argument coming out of 
 an apartment behind the liquor store to cops busting a cap in some one. As you can tell the gameplay 
 is plentiful and I'm only mentioning a few things.
  
  The graphics are great as well. The lighting works really well from the thickness of the rain to 
 the bright sun shiney days. The cops strobe lights reflect off the walls and cars around them. 
 Your head lights bounce off the side of the walls are cars to. The sound of the cars are assume! 
 Muscle cars sound great! The radio stations are funny to listen to. You can hear someone finish 
 there sentence when they are screaming at you when you drive by fast. So you do catch all they 
 are saying. YOu hear the bass coming out of some cars then when the door opens you hear the rest 
 of the music. Heck leave the car door open and you can here it all out in the streets when standing 
 around. The music also fades away as the cars drive off or gets louder as the approach.
  I even noticed when you go into the stores the clerks are either nice are rude depending on how 
 you look and what high class store you go into. One guy I had to rob just because he was rude before 
 and after I bought his products. Jerk!!
  Anyway if you like GTA games and have a 360 then you'll love this one. It a big improvement over 
 the rest and just plane fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vw_Magnum
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is a huge San Andreas ripoff, but that's not a bad thing. The more GTA like games that 
 hit the market the better. I compare just about every game with San Andreas, and I'm about to do 
 the same thing with Saint's Row.
  
  The city of Stilwater is terribly small, that's the first thing I noticed about Saint's Row. It 
 doesn't seem to be bigger than Los Santos, and that's not at all acceptable. This is supposed to 
 be next-gen! Although, it actually doesn't matter that much. The the city feels much bigger than 
 it really is, even though you can drive straight through it in under 2 minutes. Good thing I have 
 my GPS. Most of the city looks good with great design and detail, but I can't say I enjoy drivin' 
 through the industrial districts.
  
  To be honest I think the graphics are even better than in Oblivion. In Elder Scrolls IV you can't 
 ride a horse without the framerate dropping beyond reach. That ain't a problem in Saint's Row, 
 even if you're drivin' a bit over the speed limit. That's right, you can't really break the speed 
 limit by very much, no matter what kind of sports car you got. I would say no car can go faster 
 than about 70 mp/h. It doesn't really bother me, but it would be nice with some real speed.
  
  Shooting is great. I thought it was great in San Andreas, but it's even better here. It's easy 
 to aim and the sound effects are superb. Total perfection. Too bad there ain't that many weapons. 
 Driving is also a bit better than in San Andreas and it's great to pimp cars, but I never seem 
 to pick a paintjob I really like. But I guess that's just me.
  
  The story, dialogue and characters aren't as great as in San Andreas, but I can't complain. Sometimes 
 the mostly quiet main character say the most hilarious things. It would still be better if he was 
 a loud mouth like CJ, but I'm just happy he ain't like the guy in GTA III.
  
  The side missions or "activities" are mostly better than in San Andreas. Although, Snathing can 
 be quite boring, Drug Trafficing quite hard and Hitman really annoying, but the other activities 
 are very fun.
  
  You play through the main story in under 10 hrs but the activities last for at least 40 more. Even 
 though it doesn't come close to the excellency of San Andreas, Saint's Row is a must buy for all 
 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inapprope
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 6, 2006 11:34 am PT
Review:  I had my reservations about this game from the start. Sure, I've always liked the GTA series but 
 it gets kind of boring after a while. Well this game was different for me. I started off kind of 
 bored with it, possibly because of having to redo the same missions as the demo. Then after a while 
 it kind of grew on me until it started growing into a small obsession.
  
  Graphics, while most of the time are margin have their moments like at night. Love the ragdall, 
 it better be in future free roam games and more. Some player graphics are awful, hair, tattoos, 
 just look bad in my opinion. Good thing you don't really get close enough to your own guy to be 
 bothered to greatly by this.
  
  Gameplay is a blast, various missions that don't really get boring. I haven't even followed the 
 story because I love playing various side missions which there are TONS of. This part of the game 
 is really brilliant.
  
  One of my prior noted reservations about this game was the soundtrack, I dislike hip hop music 
 and since it's an urban type game I figured I'd just have to deal with it. But nope, plenty of 
 radio stations to pick from, my favorite is the Indie station. Awesomeness. Mixed in with the random 
 citizen banter and everything else the sound is really great.
  
  Overall, I'd say it's a really solid title for the 360. It is a lot like GTA but it also does a 
 lot of things better. It'll be interesting to see GTA's rebuttle. Good ole competition, gotta love 
 it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zkeptik
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  The GTA comparisons are abundant on the internet so I will attempt to avoid the issue completely. 
 Its no secret they ripped off the idea so we wont pretend like it is. This is a great game in 
 a genre that has, until now, been missing on the 360.
  
  First let me start off with the rants.
  
  The glitches. I ran into many of them although they 
 were indeed frustrating, they paled in comparison to the anger inducing save-game issue in Dead 
 Rising. Occasionally if you got out of your car too fast or the vehicle was parked in a strange 
 location your character would spasm. Twice in my 20+ hours of gameplay my character would perform 
 this moonwalk. He would face a different direction than he was walking. Strange. What would make 
 it even more interesting is that when I would run, it appeared that he was actually trying to go 
 in the direction he was facing, fighting the direction I was pointing. Again, not a game ruining 
 experience. You just reload and the problem resolves itself.
  
  Overall the little glitches and graphical mistakes arent anything that will make you feel you 
 didnt get your moneys worth. Definitely the best GTA clone ever made which supersedes some of 
 Rockstars own innovations.
  My issue with the driving controls was remedied in the full version. They allow you to select the 
 analog buttons for acceleration and braking in an alternate control configuration.
  
  The raves.
  
  The audio is fantastic. The music is extraordinarily varied, the gunshots are 
 powerful, the voice acting is spectacular. Ignore the intro cutscenes, they are a joke. Sounds 
 weird to hear certain actors cussing but their clean-cut real life personas dont seem to give 
 them any trouble. They really went all out in the music and audio department. At the end of the 
 game the music credits just roll and roll. David Carradine, Tia Carrere, Mila Kunis and Clancy 
 Brown are just some of the names of the high profile voice actors in the game.
  
  The missions are pretty straightforward, kill this guy, protect that guy. Some seem harder than 
 they need to be but its nothing that retrying wont solve. Basic but fun. If you liked GTA and 
 you cant wait at least a year until GTA IV comes out, this will definitely do. I havent spent 
 much time with it online but it is functional and it is fun. Its not Halo 2 but then again it 
 isnt meant to be.
  
  The cars are fun to drive. There is no real ultimate car which keeps things realistic. The big, 
 heavy cars feel like big, heavy cars.
  
  There were some noticeable omissions from the game such as airplanes and motorcycles but I imagine 
 thats something they might want to leave for you to buy via the Marketplace or for a sequel.
 
  
  Consider this game GTA 3.5 and you'll thoroughly enjoy this minor upgrade.
  
  If it weren't for it's lack of originality I would give it a 9, but I must dock it for it's rip-off 
 with an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackson84
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  Saints Row is very fun to play. It is just like GTA but a little better. I espeacilly like when 
 things are blown up, the graphics just looks great and I like how you can get hit with tires and 
 doors when a car blows up. I also think the weapons are better and sounds better than GTA weapons. 
 But what makes the game really good is that it has a great story line to it. It keeps me wondering 
 what going to happen next. I also love how you can create your own character. I don't I may be 
 a little bit out of line but I think it is better than GTA, but hey that is just me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragula23
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  Only having played the demo of this game I was sorta disappointed, I had big hopes and dreams that 
 despite it being said that this was a GTA clone people would be wrong, but alas I found it BORING.
 
  I like to think I have played many a good game as well as wasted my wages on crap but this is 
 one I will not be buying. I wanted to like it but I just found it sorta fluffy and soft and well 
 like a cheap firework, all fizz and no bang. I know it was just a demo of the game but sometimes 
 thats all you need to get a real feel for it.
  Not for me, but whoever brought this have fun and love yer hoe's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supermonkeygogo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 6, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  With Saints row were treading on familiar turf because its something that has been done so its 
 not orignial. Thq has seen GTA and decided to make a game of their own. But what have have done 
 is taken elements from games like gta the godfather and true crime but have make them better and 
 added new exciting elements, i belive that truly the little things make the game better like 360 
 shooting out of your car designing your own character and it actually looking good. Loads of little 
 things make this game supurb.
  
  But as it has already been done this game may make you sick as it is a knock-off of gta but i decided 
 to play it because it looked like fun and it is alot of fun.
  
  Also the new online multiplayer has the game alot more interesting, with 5 different game modes. 
 Protect the pimp which is my side is the pimp side yours isnt, the pimp side has to get the pimp 
 out of the building alive. The pimp has know weapons and a big purple hat, so it is a team based 
 effort. Then there is gangster brawl, which is a deathmatch its good its fun but it doesnt last 
 long. Big ass chains is you go around collecting chains and killing eachother for the chains alot 
 fun kinda like capture the flag but with loads of flags. Pimped out ride is driving around and 
 you have to upgrade your car three times without it being destroyed, the oppisite team has to destroy 
 that car its alot of fun.
  
  Also a new feature which no games like this have done is co-op but its not very its kinda of pointless 
 you cant just sit on the sofa whith your buddy you need two 360's and two copies of the game. When 
 you link up you just do the missions boring and pointless but it is there.
  
  All in all though i'd say this game is defintely a must have because nothing else on 360 has done 
 this so buy it try you dont like go swap it for dead rising which you can't not like.
  
  By Elliott Bonnell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheshire75
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 6:08 am PT
Review:  The concept is great, but it's ruined by the pervasive filthy language and explicit sexual content. 
 I think one can expect a game such as Saints Row to be a bit raunchy, but this one could not have 
 possibly been more so. The F word is everywhere, nasty sexual talk is commonplace, and even pedestrians 
 scream obscenities at you. I'm writing this review because none of the reviews I've read make issue 
 of this. I'm sure there are other folks like myself who find the type of content in Saints Row 
 offensive. If you prefer fun without the filth, skip Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opuskv626
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 6, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  Victim of a Fanboy Driveby Shooting. First, let me explain my headline.... It's too often that 
 reviews devolve into fanboy flame wars, so I'll tread lightly in case I offend any armchair gangstas 
 out there. Simply put, I like this game, but I feel I've played enough to have some legitimate 
 gripes. This game has many things going for it. Unfortunately, the gaming model is simply too repetetive 
 to be compelling. I've played many hours into the game only to realize that there is not enought 
 variety in the mission types. The experience is comprised of a short carjack segment, a long drive 
 across town, an idiot AI gunfight, lather, rinse, repeat. But what about the more scripted key 
 missions? Well, they seem to be afterthoughts. For example (POSSIBLE SPOILER) : In the AISHA escort 
 mission, the developers decided to plan an exciting chase through town on the way to a recording 
 studio, Aisha in tow, while a crazed fan tries to kill you. To ratchet up the tension, designers 
 thought that they'd load your car up with explosives! One false move and you could explode! Sounds 
 great? huh? Well in actuality, this mission can be completed in LESS THAN 5 SECONDS! When the mission 
 started and the crazed stalker showed up all i had to do was to get out of the car and shoot him 
 in the head through his car window. THE END. No exciting chase, no drama. Wow. (END OF SPOILER) 
 So add up repetetive interludes of idiot AI, the same gun shop or clothing store anywhere you go, 
 simple mission design and you really have to realize that this game isn't all the hype deems it 
 to be. That's where my title comes in. I'm sure this is going to enrage fanboys everywhere. White 
 tweens from Wisconsin suburbia who believe they are tupac will front and threaten to bust a cap 
 in my ***. All in all I believe the game developers did one thing right. They, like the makers 
 of DEAD RISING, released a fairly mediocre and repetetive game in the middle of a gaming drought. 
 I think gamers are having a hard time getting through this akward phase between current gen and 
 next gen consoles where new releases are few and far between. Gamers are just starving for anything 
 to sink their teeth into... and frankly when you're hungry, you'll eat anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canuck99
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Yes they stole GTA's ideas, but they dropped the annoying parts and made the core gameplay better 
 yet. Saints Row has missions that are short but challenging. So when you fail a few times it still 
 fun to work your way through the difficult parts get past them. GTA requires the constant use of 
 Cheats to get past many of the missions, which can be way to long.
  
  The graphics are far great for a Game world of this size. No load times between indoor and outdoor 
 environments make the city come alive.
  
  The music is great and the addition of a Media player tops it all off nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolbballeman
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  The game takes place of Stillwater where a unknown gang called 3rd Street Saints is trying to become 
 the best. You play as a quiet guy who u customize urself. This game has 3 different sets of missions 
 against a certain gang: Los Carnales, Vice Kings, and West Side Rollaz. U can also take over territories 
 or as they call strongerholds in the game. U can also play activites where u can win achievements 
 but it is not much points but who cares, they r points. What i didnt like most about the game is 
 that usually after u finish a mission and start to get sucked into the story, sometimes u cant 
 continue because u dont have enough respect so then u r forced to play the avtivites. Some of the 
 activites r dull and few r fun. Also wat sucks about the game is that the missions seem repetitive. 
 Like protecting a truck or driving somewhere and shoot a couple guys. Now onto to xbox live. I 
 love playing the game on xbox live. Its like halo 2 with the clan thingy but instead it is called 
 gangs. The only problem with xbox live is that sometimes it takes to long to find a game and/or 
 its lagging. But overall xbox live and singleplayer mode r funwhich makes this a great game. gamertag: 
 mtownslayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtw8x
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Overall it was a pretty fun game. Just like other games of its type, it can keep you playing for 
 quite a while just using the codes and blowing crap up for hours. In my opinion the graphics didnt 
 seem worthy of a next-gen console. The roads all look the same and the whole city is pretty flat. 
 The physics of the driving wasn't very impressive either. The replay value isn't quite there for 
 me compared to GTA, not as big of a collection of vehicles, weapons, and just things to do. I would 
 suggest renting this, then picking back up GTA to kill more stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wutaloner
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  At first site, I didn't even think twice when I heard about Saints Row. I believed it would be 
 some wannabe knockoff of GTA. When it came closer to arrival, the hype of the game skyrocketed. 
 The demo came out soon after, and totally surprised me. It's like they took GTA to Dr. 90210. The 
 demo was short unfortunately. I luckily got the last game the day of its release. I played it on 
 my brothers projector, and was blown away. I spent a few hours having fun with just the Insurance 
 fraud. It's variety of activities, side quests, and missions are near endless. Not only that, but 
 the cars are vast you actually get a dealer and a place to hold them. The movement is really smooth 
 although I find driving and shooting at the same time somewhat tedious. Other than that, I have 
 yet to find any other flaws in the game. I'm quite surprised and humbled by the results and gameplay 
 I have gotten from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supaflyvenom13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what is there bad to say about this game? It's almost a carbon copy of GTA? Is that really 
 a bad thing though? If you think about it every "open-world" game that's tried to change the GTA 
 formula has failed. Saint's Row unabashedly uses it and improves upon it. Really everything that 
 you love about GTA (except for bikes/motorcycles, must be saving those for the sequel) is in this 
 game, and most things that you don't like are improved upon or fixed. To say that this is a bad 
 game because it isn't original is like saying Quake sucked because it copied off of Doom. Eventually 
 games like Saint's Row and GTA will have their own genre and will not be considered "GTA-clones." 
 For now though, buy Saint's Row and love it, then get GTA IV when it comes out! Also, you can't 
 blame Saint's Row for being a GTA-clone when it adds multiplayer to the mix. While the game modes 
 are fun I haven't been able to find a lag-free match yet. I'm crossing my fingers for patches to 
 fix this. C'mon THQ, don't leave me hangin'! In conclusion, the only bad thing I can say about 
 this game is that the humor is not as good as GTA's and replaces originality with F-bombs. But 
 hey, nothing's f***ing perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuaneDog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The one thing I hated most about GTA was the lame no-skill lock-on targeting. This critical gameplay 
 improvement in Saints Row makes it a must play even if it's very similar to GTA. The shootouts 
 alone are much more fun and varied because you actually have to aim and shoot. Hopefully Rockstar 
 can learn something here. Another great part of Saints Row is that the gang members are actually 
 pretty smart and fight much better along side you than they do in GTA. The respect system is great 
 and it was smart how they interconnected it with the activities and the main plot. Overall the 
 story is pretty good but mostly because your quest for territory and control keeps you interested. 
 The way the clothing ties into respect and gives multipliers I thought would be just a gimmick. 
 Instead it adds to the strategy as you have to decide how much money to spend on expensive rings, 
 chains, clothes, percings, etc. or instead spend money on rifles and sub machine guns. If you don't 
 invest in the respect, then you end up spending more on guns as it takes longer to build respect 
 in crappy clothes and no bling. the economics work well here and I never feel like I've got as 
 much money as I want although there are ample opportunities to make thousnds of dollars a day if 
 you work at it. I like other small things like the radio station announcing sales (like 15% off 
 at friendly fire) for the in game stores. The way cops chase you is a bit uneven like GTA. Sometimes 
 it is excellent and excitement builds, other times it seems they will just send one police car 
 at a time for what feels like an eternity until finally you get your 3rd star. On the flip side, 
 it seems Saints Row does better in simulating actually losing the cops that are trailing you in 
 the first place. In Saints Row a cop will follow forever and some can be sticky and hard to get 
 rid off if you have a wimpy car. The gangs AI in Saints Row are much better IMO than in GTA. They 
 perform on par with the police and you have real indicators to know when where you stand with them.
 
  
  All in all it's a very good first effort. Let's hope we see additional add-on packs soon and pehaps 
 some tweaks to the chase AI to make it a bit more consistent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcoakanew
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  the best ever it's perfect gta has nothing on saints role if u wit the saints then u rowing man 
 u need this game 2 make ur xbox360 or pc complete it's worth da money at hand im sayin i rate it 
 a ten if u don't rate it a 8 or more then u suck bad imean like it's in ur mouth the best in the 
 history gameheads the tyme has come to get it this game saints row in our lifes it's came 2 this 
 day 2 have us now before the day comes 2 get da next xbox 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yungabowser
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Everyones comparing this game 2 GTA SA, n' i dnt blame people, but knowing about and playing San 
 Adreas the makers of Saints Row should have destroyed GTA (well until the nex GTA title cums out 
 [cant wait] ) but they didnt.
  Things like u cant go to the gym, eating doent make u fat...
  But the good things are the Gang terf wars, the enemy AI...
  Hopefully this is the begining of 
 good things 2 come from da Saints Row Crew!
  I must say, the fact that you can create ur main character at the start is good and the rain storms 
 are realistic, i like da fact that ur "hommies" dnt always have 2 shot the enemy with a pistol.
 
  Overall the game is good mainly coz of da enemy A. I unlike GTA's were wem u shoot a sum1 they 
 stand there jus shaking.
  oh yeh thers no blood, but its stil good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariel656
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 5, 2006 9:44 am PT
Review:  Everything is prefect, but what happen to the airplanes and boats!? Anyways the game RULES. firth 
 time I play the game I think this "ok" then, after 30 minutes have to love it... the explosion 
 was nice, the cars... other thing for me ... I didn't like the second ending. So Ill give 9.5, cause 
 there not airplanes and boats this is so bad. JAJAJAJAJA the multiplayer is SO Freaking good. Always 
 I was waiting for multiplayer online. This game is classic, like old School and modern thing. My 
 game of GTA will be gone to hell. Ill be waiting for GTA 4 what new will have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klm1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Good: Since The Game Is So Much Like Grand Theft Auto I Can't Help But Comment On The Excellent 
 Graphics This Game Has With A Great Choice Of Color Schemes For The Vehicles And Clothing And A 
 Brilliant Design To Create Your Own Player. Unlike Grand Theft Auto, Saints Row Has Missions That 
 Actually Make Sense (In Grand Theft Auto, CJ Was Suppose To Be A Hardcore Gangster, Throughout 
 Most Of The Game CJ Was Pushed Around Like A Chump, Saints Row Is Nothing Like That) . I Also Like 
 The Thought Process The Creaters Had With The Activities And The Type Of Missions The Player Gets 
 To Do.
  
  Bad: There Were Only Two Noticeable Problems I Had With This Game. The First Being That There Were 
 No Motorcycles In The Game. (Any Real Gang Has Motorcycles) . The Second Problem Is The Choice Of 
 Music. (I Like That I Can Download My Own Music) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suharar
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:21 am PT
Review:  I didnt expect too much from Saints Row when i first started playing, as i never played any GTA 
 games before but this game was a pleasant suprise.
  The game has a very strong story line which involves you taking over enemy gang territories in 
 a city called Stillwater.
  The visuals are quite detailed with a huge draw distance, havoc physics are also incorporated into 
 the game which look really cool especially when your blowing things or people up.
  I like the way you get to play in a huge "sandbox" and can roam about the city doing different 
 activities to improve your respect.
  You can do drug trafficking, street racing, steal whores from rival pimps, escort service, hostage 
 taking, hold ups, hijacks, hitman missions, car jacking and some other stuff .
  Also another great thing about this game is the customisation of your character, you can choose 
 from four different ethnic backgrounds, caucasion, african american, asian and hispanic. you can 
 alter just about every feature on your character alot like you can in Oblivion, but with the addition 
 of being able to make a really fat character to a really slim one.
  You can further customise your character by buying clothes and jewellery which further enhances 
 your respect. You can also customise your vehicles you acquire throughout the game.
  The game took me approx 25 hours to complete, but i still havent played about with the multiplayer 
 yet which i hear is abit laggy like any other xbox live game.
  Overall i highly recommend this game, i know its a ripoff of GTA but this game looks alot better 
 from what i've seen of GTA san andreas. Blowing things up with your rocket launcher and being chased 
 by the police, helicopters, FBI and SWAT teams all in next gen 360 graphics is great fun with alot 
 of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: campfireglory
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:04 am PT
Review:  This game was actually a treat to sit down and play, the customization available from the get-go 
 is visually pleasing and it captured my interest. Like everyone else, I thought it was just a cheesy 
 copy of a GTA but it is actually way more in-depth. The mini-side quests kept me entertained for 
 hours and the online play seems close to the top of any game out for the 360. Overall good game, 
 a glitch here and there, but otherwise smooth and beautiful. Very graphic and violent, even more 
 so than the GTA series. (ex: when a gun is equipped and you pull someone out of there car, your 
 character shoots them in the face..) Enough said.
  Something everyone should pick up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MIGUEL-S
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  I played the demo and was very luke warm about it. After reading the reviews i decided to give 
 it another shot so i went out and bought the game. Now i have been a huge fan of the GTA series 
 from the start so i was skeptical. It seems to me that 'Saints Row' takes out alot of the things 
 that were in GTA: SA that didnt work so well like boats, planes, eating. It does a number of things 
 better than GTA ever has, the gun fighting mechanics for example put GTA to shame. The charicter 
 customization is also a nice step up from what was done in San Andreas. The car customization is 
 also much better that in GTA with alot more options and the number paint finishes alone is crazy. 
 The graphics are obviously better than previous GTA games by leaps and bounds due in latge part 
 to the 360 hardware and the use of the Havok physics engine. The AI charicters seem alot more real 
 than their GTA counterparts in combat, driving, and just walking around. The game does have its 
 problems, the first being that it is the very unoriginal. The next thing you will notice as a problem 
 is that there is some pop in and fade in throughout the game but its easy to get over that.
  
  I highly reccomend it, considering the next best thing doesnt come out until October of 2007. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jer_OC
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Even here on gamespot it had reviews and promotions as been there done that & just another GTA 
 and I pegged it into that category as well, EVEN after I had played it briefly the 1st day I rented 
 it. BUT once I put the DVD in the 2nd time and decided to play it through, I quickly found out 
 how good the game really is. It does have many qualities you find in GTA (Grand Theft Auto) games, 
 but it also has so much more, and the graphics are stunning, another thing I took for granted the 
 1st time around on this game. When it finally started to sink in and catch my eye was the moment 
 I noticed the car blinkers. Something rather small yet opened up the game in a large way. This 
 game is filled with next-gen characteristics, and full of everything an open-ended game should 
 consist of. BTW there is also multiplayer (which I will get to... shortly) which is good and bad 
 all in one package. The single player game takes you through a variety of missions, and side activities 
 that increase you respect and cash$$ (things we have seen before) but in its own way they do a 
 very good job of making these new and fresh. There is a linear story/movie which is overlapped 
 by many off-shoot cinematic and assignment to go along with them. The music is excellent and the 
 one feature which is a must have in any video game nowadays is the fact that us can use your own 
 playlists, now it doesnt allow you to use playlists from your pc like the 360 dashboard does, 
 BUT if you have playlists on your 360 it does allow those playlists to be used in your media player/mp3 
 player/ radio ALSO remember those hidden packages in GTA? Well this game takes it one step further 
 and those same hidden packages are now CDs which actually Unlock music within the game, and the 
 track list is excellent in the game, of all genres so the extra interactivity of finding these 
 hidden CDs through the world are even more worth while to find.
  
  Ok... Multiplayer I was so excited to hear that an open-ended game was multiplayer enabled, 
 and I saw the word co-op too and I nearly fainted BUT they tricked me. Granted the multiplayer 
 game modes are fun (and all games should have some form of multiplayer AND co-op!!) So kudos for 
 the sheer fact that its included. The huge downside The engine (the code used during gameplay) 
 is weak, instead of letting the players choose the in-game options and players themselves... the 
 game sorta auto-picks the players and even someone with awful latency/ping/==Bad connection can 
 play in a game, so what happens is, you see people disappear as you shoot at them, or their player 
 sticks to one spot on the map and is frozen while you waste bullets and precious time trying 
 to kill nothing or the blinking person lagging behind the rest of the field. So basically what 
 I'm trying to say is create a match with friends with good connections or your game is gonna be 
  lacking. Now one more HUGE bonus is the online gangs, which is basically the same as clans, 
 you can create or join gangs and participate in gang/clan only multiplayer games, which are awesome, 
 but again... You really need some friends to play with and invest the time to do so.
  
  Overall the game is totally worth playing, a weeks rental should do the trick, cause paying 80bux 
 (after taxes) is still way too much money. So rent it, and enjoy. Buy the game once it comes down 
 in price!! Cause its an open-ended game that never really ends, and the multiplayer game modes 
 are super fun (if u have players with good connections) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocentguy757
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  A few tweaks and additons and we could have had a game that not only would have been close to perfect 
 in respect to its genre, but a game that has a legitimate shot at dethroning GTA from its widely 
 accepted role as king of all free-roam games.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are great... keeping in mind that it is a free-roaming game within a massive city. 
 It does much, much better in the graphical department than any Grand Theft Auto does... but there 
 are some rough edges that could have been smoothed out
  
  Audio:
  
  Great soundtracks... including artists like Joe Budden, Lloyd Banks, Method Man, Wu-Tang Clan, The 
 Clipse and much more. There are many genres of music to choose from, leaving everyone from a hip-hop 
 fan to rock fan satisfied. The voice acting is incredible, couldn't have been done much better. 
 Too bad there weren't a few more words to be spoken by your own character... because boy are the 
 few things he says hilarious. Gameplay: An absolute bust on GTA, but hey, who can blame them? If 
 it ain't broke, dont fix it! There are many missions, and the story draws you in, but the ending 
 sucked in my opinion. The activities are from, ranging from Mayhem where you destroy everything 
 you can in a limited amount of time to Escorting where you escort a client while he and a prostitute 
 get busy to Demolition Derby, which is self explainable. There are tons of things to do in the 
 city, from buying clothes and jewlrey to going to the liquor store or Freckle B****es, a rip of 
 Burger King or McDonalds. There are stars you can "earn" by just doing pure evil, and thats when 
 the helicopters and FBI come in to take you down. Also a grreat variety of cars will keep you busy, 
 making you want to add to your collection, and even pimp them out, as you can customize most cars 
 in the game. Also the robust features in creating your own guy is a plus, with tons of different 
 styles. And if you didn't like how your guy looked physically, you could always bring him to a 
 plastic surgeon. The gameplay is higly addictive, and captures what Grand Theft Auto created almost 
 to perfection
  
  Cons:
  
  The few things I didn't like about the game were the glitches and the limited TYPES of vehicles. 
 There were many glitches i experienced, from the ground disappearing (even right under you sometimes) , 
 to cars disappearing, to your car just disappearing (yes the car you're driving) . If the car disappeared, 
 you would be stuck, and if it didn't let you out after a few seconds, you would be stuck there 
 for good and would have to restart the game (it wasn't frozen, as i could turn the camera and see 
 my guy moving) . Also sometimes the sound would skip (no sound at all for a second or too) . They 
 were minor things, but it gets a little annoying after a while. The lack of types of vehicles was 
 also a drag. There were only cars... no boats, helicopters, planes, bikes, or motorcycles you could 
 drive. This could and should have been done, seeing that Grand Theft Auto has done it before this. 
 This also limits the types of missions to gunning, driving, and a combo of both.
  
  Online:
  
  Online isn't the highlight of the game, but can be fun. Co-op is hard, but is a 
 blast, and some of the gang wars like big ass chains are fun... but clearly the multiplayer isn't 
 whats going to sell this game. Also creating you own gangs, or clans, is a pretty neat feature 
 in itself, being able to take on other gangs over xbox live. Most of the fun's to be had with the 
 single player though, but it is good enough to give a try to.
  Overall:
  
  Overall this game is fun and a must buy. It will keep you playing for hours straight, and the gameplay 
 is some of the most addictive yet for the Xbox 360. I recommend it to anyone who loves to shoot 
 and drive and just explore vast areas. And if your not into these type of games, give it a rent, 
 it'll be well worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  ok ok so there has been alot of hype about this game and im here to tell why this game is the best 
 game for the xbox360. Well when you first fire up the game you will see the menu
  
  New game
  Load game
  Xbox live
  Downloadable content
  Options
  Special
  
  Just click 
 New game and you customize your charictore and start the game. Its a good idea to start with vice 
 kings like i did and in the instruction manuel it tells you that the vice kings will give you the 
 full experiance to start with. Los carnales are really easy and isn't to intresting. Westside rollers 
 is definantly the hardest. You can do pretty much everything from the start and when you earn enough 
 money you can buy really really fast cars. Customizing cars is more for looks.
  
  The graphics are awsome and i really dont know how gamespot gave it a 7 in graphics.
  
  Anyways 
 go buy this game you wont regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joey_balla
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  So everyone who has a 360 Im telling you buy this game cuz you'll luv it. But have fun with the 
 game cuz I know that you'll luv it its fantastic really it is if I GTA: san andreas and compared 
 it to this then Saints Row would win because of some of the things you can do on this game. Its 
 like this you can do four missions the Rollerz, Vice Kings, Los cornales, and something else that 
 I forgot at the moment its the best you do activities rob stores take things to the pawn shop hijack 
 cars an every thing shoot other gangs in general. Also you can recruit the people on your gang and 
 you get to like 40% then you can recruit 3 people but thats just a little and once your done with 
 the 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeremythamasta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The game has Nice Hi Def Graphics but some glitches cause roads to disappear and cars to freeze/disappear. I 
 don't think there are enough songs on the soundtrack to get away from repetition but the songs 
 are well known and popular. The story is great but not as involving as GTA. The characters are 
 interesting but shallow and no real information is known about the characters. I would like to 
 know more about Julius and how he came to run the saints and what happened between him and Mr. 
 King. The game play is a GTA ripoff, especially the territory base of the game but it does hold 
 its own against GTA. Overall Saints Row does Better than GTA in some aspects like graphics, territory 
 modes, shooting, but overall in my book it is 8.5~9 compared to San Andreas 9.5~10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamuja
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Obviously THQ did a good job of making this game. It took them 4 years, and it is their first GTA 
 style game. I hope that there is a sequel and they put a better storyline into it with a better 
 online mode, with better game modes, and better matchmaking systems. The best online match is probably 
 Blinged out Ride. I haven't played a gang war against other gangs yet, so I have no idea what that 
 is like. If there is a sequel, they should base it on a real city using a different name, like 
 Liberty City (N. Y. C) on GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KilIitWithFire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 5, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a notch above Grand Theft Auto. First better graphics, second more types of missions, 
 better music, and character customization. The graphics make San Andreas look like an original 
 Playstation game. The missions are better than kill them, steal that, bring it here, then back 
 there, kill them, BOOM, mission over. The music is a lot better than the crappy SA soundtrack 
 of bad 80s hits. Though it has character customization it is very limited, basically 5 or 6 shirts, 
 4 or 5 jackets, 5 or 6 pairs of pants, and different colors. You can also customize cars, but except 
 for nitrous it changes nothing. The game has a few glitches like disappearing ground, audio mess-ups, 
 and invisible objects. Overall very fun game, but its a little easy. You can beat the main story 
 in 10 or 11hours if you really try, but the activities and multiplayer will keep you playing for 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I have to say this game is better than I thought it would be! The city is extreamly huge and there 
 are alot of things to see... not to mention accomplish. The game itself is pretty well written and 
 it has alot of foul language which I guess should be suspected... but it has ALOT. The game is not 
 boring whatsoever... This game pretty much will drag you in once you start playing it. I have to 
 say I will be playing this for a good while to come. The visuals are not completely NEX-GEN per 
 say but the wide area and quick load times make up for it. This game is a must have for any GRAND 
 THEFT AUTO fan that has an XBOX 360. I really can not say anything negative to this game due to 
 everything is about right for the look and feel of this one. The guys at THQ did a good job and 
 this game is one of the few games I will say the $59.99 price tag is backing itself up. This is 
 one of the 3 games I own that I don't feel ripped off at the retailer. If you like a free roaming 
 game and a GTA feel... this game is for you. MUCH BETTER THAN THE DEMO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quagmire555
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is very fun, and may be the best game on the 360. You can do many things like change 
 your characters clothes, and pimp out his ride. You can also just go out and fool around and shoot 
 evrything u see and have fun. I still think this game falls short of everything u can do in Grand 
 Theft Auto. for that i think this game will need to have a little bit more work put into it to 
 exceed the grand theft auto series, but this is still a very good game. I recommend it for all 
 xbox 360 owners but i think u should wait for grand theft auto before u buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsweens24
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row pretty much precisely copies an already great formula, adding some great graphics and 
 a few decent innovations, but that's it, and in the end it'll just not feel original enough to 
 maintain a place in your collection for long.
  
  Still, as a distraction until the next GTA hits our shelves, it works well. The story is really 
 rather well concieved - with the cutscenes being very well directed, which is an odd compliment 
 for a video game - the voice acting is consistently fantastic - although it's a little wierd to 
 hear Meg Griffin spouting off about sex and drugs - and the gameplay is also consistently entertaining.
 
  
  Worth a look, particularly if you have a GTA shaped hole in your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike_ascool
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  One thing you have to understand about this game is that its a next gen game... when comparing it 
 to gta and their series .. you need to understand that the gta series have not yet come out with 
 a game on the next gen system.. and when they do i will be certain that the gta series on the next 
 gen systems such has x360 or the ps3 .. will standout more than saint row.. now. im not sure about 
 the 360 and how much gb it can store .. but the ps3 is on blue ray.. which can store around 50 
 gb.. now imagine gta on a blue-ray with the potential to hold up to 50gb of date powered by a powerful 
 cell chip and there core processors... anywayz .. we just need to wait untill grand theft auto 
 comes on the next gen to make comparision with the gta series and saint rows . BY THE WAY GUYS.. 
 if your interested in making some good money doing offers copy the link below ... i made realli 
 good money doing these offers and got a cheque in the mail http://www. treasuretrooper. com/81168 
 ... and thanks for reading my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axes03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 4, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  GTA RIP-OFF !!!!!!!!!!!!! right? right? ..... yeah i know, i said the same thing when i first played 
 the demo. but theres alot under the "HOOD" in this gem of a game. the single player game is almost 
 same and even in places better than GTA. ( OMG I SAID IT) yes it is better than sanandreas in varios 
 ways. the fps style shooting works really good and that gps like thing IS AMAZING!!!!!! and little 
 things like easier driving and shooting, gang members that are not retarted, good weapons makes 
 this game a great experience. and whether gamespot liked it or not i really enjoyed the multiplayer. 
 they are surprisingly tactical instead of just simple run and gun. and "pimping" out your character 
 with your own earned money and gangs with outrages names and mottos are the icing in the cake. 
 its really laggy in some cases but the patch should fix it. ( I hope.....) and the controller doesnt 
 vibrate when u get shot.
  apart from the minor issues this is an AMAZING game that should have came earlier to take advantage 
 of the 360 game drought. if your into the gta type action youll get just what you expect. this 
 is a great game that is over shadowed by the spectacular GTA francises, and it may become a very 
 underappreciated title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seifer-fx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:47 pm PT
Review:  When i heard about this game i was unsure what to think, will it just be a GTA clone on the 360? 
 I desided it should at least be fun... so i bought it, and it really surpassed any idea of what 
 i had of it...
  
  Gameplay ------10
  The GTA style 3rd person style seems to never get old, coupled with better AI, rag doll and some 
 spark thats hard to describe you've got what Siants Row is offering. The driving in particular 
 i found very assessable and really fun. All in all, if your robing shops, pimping hoes or just 
 messing around with the law the gameplay stands above the rest.
  
  Graphics --------9
  While not the best the Xbox 360 can offer, its a very nice look to a game, in contrast with the 
 below ageverage grahpics these games normaly have. Its really nice to look at :D
  
  Value ------------10
  Ok this is why i like this game so much, the sheer value of play it has 
 to offer. You can rob shops, be a hitman, Race for cash, pimp the hoes, help people escape form 
 the press all that to pure mayham!. Not only is the story very involing it focuses on each gang 
 and a differant higher player of the 3rd street siants, its good for getting to know each of the 
 row when you "roll" with them :P. If your looking for a good few weeks play, buy this game pure 
 and simple.
  
  Great game, may look like GTA re born but it stands out there on its own, and if GTA 4 is anything 
 like this, im getting really excited to see whats coming..
  
  Overall ------9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silbernicus
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Overall, the game annoyed me. It was not better than San Andreas contrary to what anyone else tells 
 you. I would recommend San Andreas for the Xbox rather than Saints Row for the Xbox360, besides. 
 SA can be played on your 360 fairly well. Saints Row has a good ammount of customization, but it 
 decided to go ahead and change the controls from GTA3, Vice City, and San Andreas. Not only that, 
 but the game tried too hard to be hip and not hard enough to make a better game. Next Gen GTA clones 
 are fun, but worth your time and money? No. Stick with San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will82
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  Everything that GTA didn't have, this game does. I like the addition of creating your own character 
 to your liking. Saints Row has so many side missions and extras to look for to keep you busy for 
 many hours. The graphics are the best I have ever seen in this genre of games. Also, the explosions 
 were awesome and each one seemed different, what could be better than seeing a rival gang member 
 flying through the air while burning to death. The only real downfall is that your character doesn't 
 talk, he's like a good little b!&*h that does as he's told and doesnt complain. The sound is pretty 
 good, everything sounds realistic and hearing some of the things people say on the streets is hilarious. 
 The music doesn't have as many popular songs as GTA but it has many styles to your liking. Rockstar 
 finally has some worthy enough competition. Im looking forward to what GTA4 will bring to the table. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cena111
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 9:09 am PT
Review:  Over all i rate this game a 9.6 its sorta long its very fun 2 play although if your offended by 
 the n Word and lots of swear words its not really for you if you like driveing around and being 
 in a gang and like grand theift auto you will be without a dought amaized i would recommend 2 go 
 out and buy it its most likely the game of the month and keep your eyes peild for more of the game 
 reviews also it has a great story line very good and the graphics are amazing bye see you next 
 time on the new review of a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaJohn24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 4, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  This game shocked me when I first picked it up, it was like playing a perfected version of GTA: 
 San Andreas.
  
  The controls were great! Shooting was easy thanks to the free-aiming. Driving was a bit of a trick 
 to get used to, I'd always pull down on the right trigger thinking it was the accelerator only 
 to hear my guy shoot off a few rounds. Driving and shooting also took some getting used to. But 
 overall the controls worked well. Graphically it is superior to GTA tenfold. It has sharp visuals, 
 interesting backgrounds, many different character models and not the annoying frame rate issues 
 of San Andreas. The game does however have a few minor glitches, like your car momentarily dissappearing 
 underneath your character while driving on the highway. Also, sometimes the audio cuts out for 
 a second, and every once in a while (only happened to me once during my 20+ hours of play) there 
 is a frame rate studder. Sound wise, the music is very different from the GTA series. It's alot 
 less flashy, without the big name bands or rappers making any appearance. However, for the most 
 part the music grows on you, and there's something there for everyone, from classical to reggae. 
 As for the weapons and cars they sound real. It's got great value, as unlike the GTA series, it 
 has tons of side activities to do. They'll earn you cash and respect and are for the most part 
 very fun. The actual missions are fun and interesting the entire game up until their end. The final 
 mission involving the 'Westside Rollerz' gang was redundant, and the very, very final cutscene 
 of the game felt rushed and too abrupt. The developpers had a multitude of possible storylines 
 they could have made, but instead decided to cut all possibilities off. I was slightly dissapointed 
 as the missions only took me about 20 hours, unlike San Andreas. Overall, whether it's collecting 
 CD's, doing the activities, playing the missions or just free roaming, Saints Row is a great game 
 worth your dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marolia
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 4, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Not much to say but this game is great its fun to play. i know there is aother game like saints 
 row i mean GTA but why wait for GTA 4 when its a year ahead. Saints row has great gameplay and 
 great graphics i never saw a graphic like that on a console. It is really good that they made this 
 game saints row soo we dont have to wait a year just to play gta 4. What else to say for me this 
 game is amazing and just playing it will make u play for hours and hours and never stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dman4Life1217
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:22 am PT
Review:  This game is a perfect example of how to take a proven formula, and make it better. While I'll 
 be the first to say it's a GTA clone, it does what so many clones have failed to do. Add something 
 worth while to the genre, and expand on what's already been done. The best addition to the series 
 is the respect meter. I love how you can't rifle through the storymode without earning your stripes 
 on the streets. It makes you play other aspects of the game, without holding your hand which is 
 greatly appreciated. The story mode is one of the most thought out that I've seen in a while. Even 
 more so than all 4 GTA games, because even though you're a "background" character with few words, 
 the way the world and story unfolds around you is masterful, not to mention the voice acting quality 
 is top notch. This game takes the core of GTA: San Andreas [gang banging] , and makes that the focus 
 of the entire game. Building up a criminal empire never felt so fun. Gone are the nonsensical missions 
 from GTA. Gangstas don' t fly planes, or ride ATVs in the mountains. The online gameplay is also 
 great. Even though it's essentially an urbanized version of SOCOM, it's just so damned fun. I recommend 
 that you go out and pick this one up asap, then come holla at me online. I'm representin "tha .net" 
 under Dmizzle4Rizzle.
  
  Holla at cha boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BraindeadRacr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 6, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Introduction~ Alright... Here we have another GTA based, it's not like Driver, it's also not like 
 True Crime nor anything else. For those who say "IT'S A GTA RIP, THIS GAME SUCKS!" get a life. 
 Making the game's floor is a base, the base here is an Action/Freeroam/Shooter. You get an idea, 
 which is gangs and gang involved turfwars. You get fillings, for instance: Cars, Trucks, Vans and 
 trains, guns, shops and the list goes on. Every single game producer has his own idea. What people 
 now say is simply comparing an green apple with an red apple. I don't hear you say "Dude, those 
 apples suck! One is from WalMart and the other is from K-Mart, WalMart had 'em first!"
  
  Every idea is unique, no matter how alike they are, otherwise there would not have been hundreds 
 of different car brands, thousands of different types of drinks and it goes on. Alright, Rockstar 
 had the GTA series first, BUT that was the PS2, this my friend: Is Xbox360 only...
  
  ~Game  Graphics~
  
  The graphics, textures are amazing, people's skins are amazing, vehicle 
 damage is awesome, the city is made living. The graphics is one of the many patched holes for many 
 GTA fans.
  
  ~Game  Sound~
  
  Aye, this is where it goes wrong. Not only Rockstar Games made this mistake but Volition Games 
 seem to did the same. Rap, Rap and.. Rap. There are a few Rock and alternative including one talk 
 radio which is hillarious but the rest.. Rap & HipHop.
  
  The voice cast is good, but it seems it's way to.... Far if you know what i mean. They could have 
 spend all the extra money for high-class stars for e. g Music. The vehicle sounds are Ok, the voices 
 of the street are funny as always and the gun sounds just kick ass.
  
  ~Game  Gameplay~
  
  Ahh! The Fun-On-A-Disc. If you go trough the story you have LOTS of oppertunity's to get rep. 
 Pimping, Escorting, Insurance Fraud, Hitman, Racing and it goes on and on. Besides of that you 
 get some interesting missions and sort. It's an long lasting game. Theres also some funnier and 
 easier things such as ordering an Ambulance or an Taxi Service. Take phone numbers from busstops 
 and company vehicles.
  
  ~Game  Story Mode~
  
  The story is nice, nothing different than getting streetrep, killing rival-gang members and taking 
 hoods over. You'll unlock loads of things troughout this game.
  
  ~Game  Value~
  In a few words: It'll keep you busy untill GTA: IV comes. If you don't like GTA you cannot like 
 this.
  
  So, i hope this makes some clear spots for those people who ONLY stay on Rockstar Games & Take2 
 Interactive's side. This game is NOT bad, it's good. You can't say it's a GTA-Rip Off. Every idea 
 is simply unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryfool
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Yh this game is sick man but why didnt they put it on the PS2 i don't want to go to my uncles house 
 to play it pleeeeaaaasseee put it on the PS2 or even the PSP yep that will be nice, but still the 
 graphics are so cool and the gear you wear are so realistic my character looks like hes part of 
 the mafia in a black suit (im very classy lol) its so cool i hope they can put it on the PS2 and 
 on the PSP as well that will be superb. Yep this game has grand theft auto beat gta san andreas 
 is old news now there gonna have to come back real heavy with number 4 or people are jus gonna 
 forget about it and get every saints row series that comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kim_nielsen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 26, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  Now finally completed the F***ing game, and damn I Love it, the way I became the biggest Pimp, 
 Gangster and Hitman, even after I finished the game, there is are alot of activities to kill time 
 with.
  
  Pimp My Ride, I don't know how many money I've spent on my rides, and have reached the limit for 
 my garage....
  
  there are many things to do, and allot of city to explore, do a drive-by, sale drugs with a mother, 
 pimp some hoes and go to races..
  
  I can only say to the fans of GTA, this is the game to play, while we are waiting for the next 
 GTA... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pyrolator
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  saint's row. Xbox 360's answer to Grand Theft Auto, does not live up to the hype that has been 
 built up around it. For a "launch title" which was already delayed, it should have a LOT less flaws. 
 The visuals are not worthy of a "Next-Gen" console. Clipping errors, seeing through bridges, these 
 are only two of the flaws that simply SHOULD NOT be present in ANY game, EVER. It feels to me that 
 there is SOMETHING wrong. Either the game uses more than the 360 can give (doubtful) or there are 
 design flaws in the game. FREEZING. this is the first time i have experienced such frequent freezing 
 in ANY console game. Also, if there is too much action onscreen, the game slows down and struggles 
 to move. In my experience there was around 12 carnales onscreen and the game slowed down to the 
 point of almost completely freezing. Aside from these flaws that just should not be present, the 
 game is good... well... good enough until GTA4. Reading previews concerning "insurance fraud" led 
 me to believe that it would be one of the best parts of the game, by lvl2 that wears off and it 
 becomes incredibly boring. Car customization is very good. The ability to get your customised cars 
 back is a VERY nice touch that GTA should have. The jewelery and clothing gives the game a very, 
 "DEF JAM2" feel. I for one, feel that Def Jam2 had a very comprehensive customasation feature (although 
 fairly pointless) . The gun controls take some getting used to, but once that passes they are more 
 interesting than GTA's "Auto-lock". However, trying to shoot and drive proves very difficult. All 
 in all, i think that Saint's Row is a good game that SHOULD be better. It feels rushed to me, but 
 it is still good enough to play through atleast once. Reader's Ratings for Saints Row 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNIM
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying........ I love the Grand Theft Auto Series. I was playing the original GTA 
 on the PC before it was out on the PS1. I loved GTA 3 foor the PS2, enjoyed Vice City, and thought 
 San Andreas revolutionized free roam gaming.
  
  But I do not discriminate against other games just because people would like to call it a rip-off 
 . I loved both True Crimes games,, but they werent GTA.
  
  Well, Saints Row is a tad bit closer to GTA. Yet it still seems like something is missing out of 
 the game. Perhaps all the extras of San Andreas spoiled me.
  
  With that being said, I love this game. I really like the fact you make your own character and 
 that you're not something game generated. I like the story line. The beginning scene from the game 
 really captures the story and you delve right into it. If you like the whole gangbanging aspect 
 of games, you'll love this game. If you liked GTA, you'll like this game. The graphics are superior, 
 but are not the best I have seen on the 360. At least the cars look real and the buildings and 
 surroundings are crisp and life-like. There are a few glitches but that comes with the territory. 
 And finally, a game like this with online play.
  
  I would recommend buying it, just because it is a fun game that captures you from the start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golfer13last
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  im not sure on how many people are gunna read this but here it goes.
  
  I got saints row the first day it got out. I brought it home and emediatly started to play (curiousity) . 
 Any, flew through the first part cuase i played the demo a couple of times. Then i started to explore 
 everythin'. I think everyoen one will be amazed on the amount of activities, stors and missions 
 their are in this game. Activies can spread from anything like snatch (stealing hookers from their 
 pimps) to chop shop (find certian cars to bring back to people) . Very simular to GTA and slightly 
 better besisdes no boats and motorcycles but i can live with that. I'd say that saints row is worth 
 getting. Youll spend tons of time cuztimizing cars, your player, and more............. like guns 
 n' drugs. But if your parents iffy about content stuff you might find this game hard to get.
  
  ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_masta
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  So i went to the store and pickedup Saints Row a couple days ago.
  popped it out of the case and put it in my Xbox 360. I had played the demo for ages and was really 
 excited to see the full game. I made a new game and made my character by changing all the sliders 
 and also giving him a soul patch and a nice hair cut. I really enjoyed the character customization 
 from the demo but with the full game there was alot more i could do. You can also make your guy 
 really funny looking which i experimented with later.
  
  After i did the first mission which was a breeze i started playing some activities including my 
 favourite, Insurence fraud. Most of them are very fun packing in a added challege to the game.
 
  
  After I played the activites i was anxious to play the story.
  The story was very interesting with good characters and a pretty good script.
  although it wasnt 
 as good as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas its the only part of the games thats not better. I went 
 throught the story in about 20 hours.
  
  The only thing i dislikes was some of the glitches which were not all that bad..
  It was laking 
 in originality but it was very fun. If you like any grand Theft Auto games you will love this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HickoryShinobi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  This Game is Wonderful, where do i start.
  
  1. Very impressive Npc models
  2. Realistic textures
  3. Great Physics
  4. Location specific damage
  5. Huge list of activities 
 6. Cool playlist idea
  
  But although this game triumphs in so many ways... there are downfalls as well 1. The Game has 
 crashed on me frequently
  2. The Games "gangsta" approach is not working for me
  3. Weapon selection is dull (with the exception of the platinum weapons)
  4. Why no planes! Or 
 Bikes! Or.. Why hasnt anyone tried a skateboard
  5. Needs more songs
  
  But The Game is SOOO fun... Sequel Perhaps, please 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very close clone of GTA, particularly part III because there are no motorcycles, 
 bikes, or flying vehicles. Having less to do in single player than the newer GTA's this game still 
 delivers a fun experience. Having very heavy language and adult content makes for some funny moments. 
 Voice acting is top knotch along with sound effects. It is odd that this game is very light on 
 blood considering the Mature nature of this game, also nudity is still star nipple covering away 
 from naked like most games that go this far. The framerate is way less than it should be considering 
 the power of the 360, though its nice not to have any loading screens when traveling. Multiplayer 
 is very unfortunate in many ways, although it still captures a hell of a lot of fun. Lag and glitches 
 really screw with the online gameplay as well as to get into a matchmade game it takes on average 
 about 5 minutes or more. Team Deathmatch levels are only 3 and if they are going to charge more 
 money for new ones then its a total rip off because this game should have already had way more 
 levels than it does already. The Co-Op is pretty much complete garbage as it is nothing like the 
 single player as im sure everybody was hoping for...2-4 friends let loose on the single player 
 over Xbox Live... but no. Again there is a severe lack of levels and game modes in Co-Op since there 
 is only a couple to be done. There are other game modes like Steal the Pimp and Bling Out My Ride 
 and you get a couple new levels to play in during these modes and it makes no sense why you cannot 
 play Team Deathmatch on these bigger levels with cars, instead of only having a couple very simple 
 small multiplayer levels . With some much needed downloads and patches this multiplayer would be 
 awesome but until then your gonna have to put up with a lot of annoying problems and lack of content. 
 Somehow its still fun and thats good because it shows it still has potential.
  
  Graphics are decent as well for the most part however there is chunky framerates, along with some 
 bad pop up fill in rates when fast traveling. Cars can be seen crossing the invisible walls inside 
 of your characters view range which makes the submerged in a real time city feeling a little flat. 
 Cars are also quite polished looking and handling but to me without motorcycles, boats, heli's, 
 and planes its hard to credit the vehicles in this game. Explosions and ragdoll physics are really 
 good and this probably is the most redeeming factor for the graphics on this game. Sound effects 
 and Voice acting really move the story line along quite nicely.
  
  Insane fun even with all the problems and with some patches and "FREE" downloads such as levels 
 and multiplayer modes would easily put this game on the top of the 360 food chain to date. Its 
 not completly what I was dreaming about when I was thinking a next gen GTA with online but the 
 pure potential and raw fun of this game have me drooling over a sequal or perhaps the real next 
 gen GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peter-ekali
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  ok, this game is AMAZING! A lot better than i expected it to be! You know what makes it so special? 
 Not the graphics, not the controls but the missions! You enjoy playing them and that 's what makes 
 it a GTA killer and lets not forget that you can create your own character, that totally rocks!
 
  There are too many things to do and earn cash and respect from street racing to insurance fraud 
 or kidnaping and much more that makes this game NOT a GTA rip off as a lot of people that haven't 
 played it say! Online is a blast, you'll have the time of your life! But as all huge open world 
 games it has some glitches but they won't be much of a problem! You can even take over streets 
 or having gang fights, there are times that you thing that you're in war but in the streets! You 
 can make your homies follow you to help you sort problems out and even defend you! I can't describe 
 everything it's just too much so give it a try you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesinginlucas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  This game, though it seems to have been inspired by the GTA series, is so much better than any 
 grand theft auto game I've ever played, and I've played them all! Graphically, it is far superior. 
 And the story is much more interesing and unique. Also, character customization is an option now, 
 which it wasn't in GTA. And NPC diversity is so much better. Actually, GTA doesn't even compare 
 to this game in any way, so I don't know why I'm trying to compare them at all. Saints Row is so 
 much more fun and interesting to play, and there's actually some substance to the story, rather 
 than just mindless killing. I used to think the GTA games were fun, but now I just think they suck 
 compared to Saints Row and it's graphical superiorities and great storyline, and evolving gameplay 
 style. You can do pretty much whatever you want, whenever you want, and earn your reputation however 
 you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimboj
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 3, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Slanted pre-release as a GTA wannabe this is becoming the game that everybody has bought and kept. 
 The storyline is essentially similar to GTA but the quests have a lot more depth and the whole 
 game revolves around acquiring neighbourhoods so youre not jus running around a map split in half 
 where you cant access the 2nd half. Theres a lot to do to the point where you end up rejecting 
 the storyline whilst youre having fun doing something else. Im a huge NFSU fan and I spend all 
 my time on this game pimping out cars. In terms of graphics this has some excellent touches. On 
 an SDTV some of it looks a bit messed up (mainly to do with things like peoples teeth in the cut-scenes) 
 but the basics like explosions, collisions, fire and water all look amazing enough to even out. 
 Amazing freeplay that removes the "How long will this last for $100?" worry - Rent but expect to 
 buy. Oh yeah the radio stations rock with excellent unknown artists. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_A_A_A4
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:36 pm PT
Review:  The missions are so good , the cars are amazing , Graphic so *3 nice , Weathers are the best specially 
 Rainy is the best , The clothing is so good , sporting cars is so good , The cops cars lights are 
 so cool its like real in life ,,,,,,,, shadows are so cool too , they worked alot for CARS , i 
 recomend you buy it cuz its so good and you never wasting your time and you have fun with this 
 and you never be sorry , its like GTA but GTA's Vehicles and tools are morethan of this game,
 
  
  have fun BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigantorz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has just about everything you'd want in a GTA clone and more! Infact, in some areas it 
 straight blows away the GTA series. I'll break it down. _______
  Pros:
  
  Aiming - a major improvement over GTA, it likens itself more to Ghost Recon.
  
  Homies - you 
 can roll with three members of your own gang, and take it to any blood dumb enough to disrespect. 
 Cars - alot of em' and alot of good customization. Weapons - AR40 is the best weapon known to man. 
 ________
  
  Cons:
  
  Vehicle control - a minor issue, but one that needs to be addressed. The camera takes a few seconds 
 to reposition itself after a turn, also its difficult to aim while in a car, a lock on system here 
 would've been appreciated. But seeing as how GTA was far worse, this is a minor turn off.
  
  Online Co-op - Only two missions? And one of them is pointless? What gives!
  
  Dialogue/Script: 
 The voice actors do their job. The writers had one too many beers. The whole thing that made GTA 
 classic was the subtle yet intense humor of nearly every sylable of dialogue. Saints Row makes 
 sure you understand every little detail of its potty humor. I'm betting GTA had more writers though, 
 so a good effort if nothing else.
  
  _________
  
  Overall, if you've got an Xbox 360 and you don't play this game, you might just get shot at by 
 the Saints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Saints row is a game that'll be enjoyable till the end!.
  
  GOOD- Great background graphics; awesome story & gun fights; lots of sound tracks; great gang controls; 
 brilliant concept
  
  BAD- character desgins is rubbish, not so good voice acting
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The game is alot like GTA, but Saints row is just as good, the gameplay is very good, 
 you get too create your own character and the car controls is realy easy, same with shooting in 
 the car, so much better than GTA in that way. Tho not as long GTA series, the game will take you 
 awhile till you completted it.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are great, the buildings are realistic and the light-shading is perffect, but the 
 Character desgins in the game is garbage, they look like gangs in dippers!.
  
  SOUND:
  Theres plenty of music tracks in the game which are all great, listen to em all the time, turn 
 it up!!
  
  WHY SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME?:
  One of the best free roaming games out there, and on the 360 the gang wars has never been so real!!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerx4002
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  AMAZING GAME TRULY IT MIGHT BE A GTA KNOCKOFF BUT ITS REALLY WORTH IT THO I NEVER THOUGHT I WULD 
 EVA SAY THAT ABOUT ANOTHA GAME THAN GTA BUT I GOTTA SAY THIS IS SHAPING UP TO BE A COMPETITIO FOR 
 GTA WELL JUS HAVE TO SEE THE IMPROVEMENTS IN THE NEXT GAMES AND ROCKSTAR BETTER COME HARD NEXT 
 YEAR WITH THAT GRAN THEFT AUTO 4 SO WELL NO DOUBT ITS GONNA BE GREAT IF NOT REVOLUTIONARY JUST 
 LIKE THEIR PAST THREE GAMES BUT THEY GOT COMPETION NOW SO THEY BETTER CRUSH IT FAST BEFORE SAINTS 
 ROW MAKES A NAME FOR ITS SELF. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baronOdoom
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  when you buy this game, u would think its another wannabe gta style game right? well its not. it 
 has surpassed gta in physics, gameplay, graphics , granted it is next-gen, but GTA could have done 
 all that except for the graphics, but the rag-doll was a must need, the online play, although laggy, can 
 be very very fun, while doing protect tha pimp the team work there is great, now for the single 
 player mode, the in-depth character creation and the option for clothes works great, the story 
 for the game is very good, but i won't go into that, keep you in suspense  .  the weapons are great, 
 the explosions, the radio is pretty good, but the chaotic-ness when playing the activites to earn 
 respect is very fun. this game is a very very good buy for the 360 and GTA lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidcommons
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game out right rocks! a GTA copy? no, lets Talk about standing on the shoulders of giants, 
 it takes the GTA experience and turns up the boost x 10, that my friends is EVOLUTION! at its purest. 
 The game play is intuative, awesomely scripted and the controls work a treat. The learning curve 
 is but a few minutes (mostly thanks to the ground breaking work of GTA) the missions are nicely 
 scaled to break you into the story and keep you challenged through out your progress. Grapically 
 the game is very pretty, the miriad of cars are all nicely modeled and have plenty of variety due 
 to the scope of mods that can be applied. OK, now to the BIG beef! why oh why do you release a 
 game that is so poorly tested? I'm assuming that they employed outside testers that were all under 
 14 and or have been using to many of the items from Brown Baggers they obviously hadn't a clue 
 about error reporting, the number of glitches are few but annoyingly basic ones, whoever is manning 
 their forum is no better, they keep claiming that they have not seen any other reports of the issues 
 (try scrolling through a couple of other posts buddy!) and constantly blaming peoples XBOX 360 
 for being defective! When driving fast, road sections disapear!, the game freezes in missions with 
 lots of enemies! (suprise Factory mission) , Thank your luck stars that the balance of the game 
 is so good or this title would have bombed! if the patch comes fast (by lets say a week) then it 
 will rock the charts for some time once word gets out its fixed. those that waited to see what 
 the response was, will wait a little longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Woof43
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  This is the best game of its own kind it beats GTA i dont care wat any one says this is the sh*t 
 the only game of its kind to come out with online play. Yea its laggy right now but give it a couple 
 of wekks and its gonna be the best game out. Next firday they r commin out with a patch for this 
 and its gonna fix the lag and make new cloths and cars!! You can have up to 12 online and just 
 shoot up each other and make money and buy clothes abd show the otha team who daddy is.... The custom 
 car thing in this game is the sh*t u can customiz almost any car u drive and some of them got lambo 
 doors its so tight. That game is hot right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowbear
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 3, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  i will admit, i was a gta hater. dont know exactly why, but something about that game REALLY didnt 
 do it for me. so, you would think that i wouldnt like saints row. not so. i rented this yesterday 
 afternoon and played till about 1 am.
  
  for some reason this game is very addictive. the game play appears to be about the same, yet it 
 feels sooo much better. the vivid colors and good graphics probably help. i am a bit of a graphics 
 whore. so story is nothing new. good guys, well, maybe it should be the least bad, bad guys, try 
 to take back thier turf from rival gangs, blah, blah, blah... the voice acting is phenomenal, the 
 cut scenes are entertaining for atleast 2 views, then you can y button past them (thank you volition, 
 it really pisses me off when developers make you watch the cut scenes over and over again) . the 
 controls are pretty easy to use. standard fare for a game like this (unless youve played dead rising. 
 whats up with the no strafing?) and i would imagine you can customize the controls if you dont 
 like the default settings. i wouldnt know, i like the defaults.
  
  the missions, while not being the most varied, are still fun and the level system to them makes 
 them harder as they go up (unlike prey, where cherokee was the same as easy, only no health. which 
 didnt matter anyway, since you never really die) .
  
  i havnt tried the multi yet, but have read there is some lag. luckily a patch is allready underway. 
 and that where volition messed up. QUIT RELEASING GAMES BEFORE THEY ARE DONE. WHY IS THERE A PATCH 
 BEING MADE FOR A GAME BEFORE ITS ACTUALLY RELEASED?
  
  so, to make this kinda short, its a fun game. i feel as though i have to reiterate, I DID NOT LIKE 
 GTA. none of them. but, this game just feels different. its one of those intangibles. you will 
 know it when you play it...
  
  thanks, and i hope you liked my review... now bite me, im going to freckle **** to but a fist in 
 my mouth.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpuchess
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  The very best part of this game is the open ended nature of it. You can just simply walk around 
 and pick fights or whatever you want to do. You are not forced to play some mission. THIS IS EXACTLY 
 HOW GAMES SHOULD BE!!
  
  I wish they had taken it a little further and allow you to go into ALL buildings, but that would 
 quite an undertaking I guess.
  
  I also wish they would allow you to turn off or limit the amount of profanity. Some of which is 
 just plain offensive
  
  Other than that, they did a terrific job, I am impressed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zidura
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 12:52 am PT
Review:  While it definitely could be argued that Saints Row is a GTA clone -- if you had never played a 
 GTA game, this game would stand on its own as a great game regardless of the similarities. In almost 
 every element that is important to making a good game, this game exceeds GTA's performance. Graphics, 
 sound, controls, interface -- they all refine the GTA experience and are simply more fun in this 
 game. I highly recommend this game to GTA fans and non-fans alike. It has that "just one more mission" 
 addictive quality to it that is lacking in most games. By the way, if you don't like crude sexual 
 humor and tons of swearing, then steer clear. And seriously, don't let your kids play this stuff! 
 I can't believe it when I hear 12 year - olds on Xbox Live when I'm playing this game. What's going 
 on with parents these days? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarioD04
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  Reasons: Although the gameplay was fun with the gangs, and the shooting.. I felt it was missing 
 something. It had some great cutscenes and an interesting storyline, but overall, you gotta admit, 
 it was repetetive. That is the only reason I'm giving this an 8 in gameplay instead of a 9. I really 
 enjoy beating up people in the game, picking on other gangs, and completing some of the fun activities. 
 It truly is one of the better GTA replicas, but isn't as good as GTA, or as in-depth as GTA. It 
 it very near to being the next GTA with a couple of improvements though.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the Gameplay and overall game is VERY fun. Also, another mention is that this 
 game has great physics. Truly remarkable in some areas, and enjoyable at the same time.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Reasons: Well.. I feel that they chose the cartoonish style for character creation 
 reasons, and just for the overall look of it. It wouldn't be very realistic if the graphics looked 
 a ton better. This game wasn't made for the graphics, but for the game itself. It has many areas 
 in cutscenes that look gerat, but I think 7 is the number that fits the graphic rating if you're 
 looking at a 360 game level. They should have put a bit more time into minor details with movement 
 in this game also, along with kicking, and some glitches that happen with cars, or the way you 
 fall.. That is a part of gameplay though.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Reasons: The sound in this game is one of the major things in the game. It fits the guns very well, 
 and is great with the speech of certain characters such as Johny. They have done a good job with 
 crashes, and recordings of random people talking. That , also was a repetitive feature, but would've 
 taken alot longer to improve. There is nothing wrong with the sound in this game in my opinion, 
 but those are just a few minor things they could work on in a future game.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Reasons: Well... hey, I paid $80 for this game. I think this is the highest I could 
 spare for the game with the price that I paid for it. ( I live in Canada, so in the U. S it is probably 
 quite a bit lower) .
  
  The game seems like it's repeating itself with the non-stop reclamation missions, and stronghold 
 missions being available, along with the overall 3 gangs.. It has very interesting missions, but 
 it's mostly run and gun to complete the job. I like its style very much, but it also could've been 
 more in depth, and the game could be alot longer than it is.. That is one thing that it should 
 compare to GTA in... The length.
  
  Tilt: I gave this a 9 to even out the rating of the game. I think it deserves a 9 because the game 
 has some great camera views and adjustable angles, while also featuring the auto-positioning feature 
 when driving a car, or shooting around.... It just sometimes is annoying reaching to move the camera 
 around while being in a tough situation.
  
  Overall: 8.3 I agree with the reviewers at gamespot with the overall rating, as mine turned out 
 the same. This is the best replica I have seen to date, and hopefully they make more of these games 
 so GTA has some competition. I reccommend this game to everyone. I would suggest a weekly rent 
 first though.
  
  A buy if you really like the game, but a week should give you enough time to beat it and enjoy 
 the cheats if you want to.
  
  Gotta love bein' up in the row!
  
  Enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Are_Ya_Ready
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- This game plays just like the games in the GTA series... just no bikes, or planes... 
 but everything else is the same. There are some things that it has that GTA doesn't. One thing 
 is that before you can do certain missions, you have to have enough respect to complete them. In 
 order to get the respect, there are numerous side missions like drug trafficking, escort, hijacking, 
 and more. Also, to get respect, you can buy new clothing and accessories. They have a whole bunch 
 of stores... like a hair salon, a burger joint, jewelry store, clothing stores, music store, liquior 
 store, and more but i cant remember. This game will keep you busy for hours.
  
  Graphics- The best thing about this game graphically are the explosions... they look amazing! Also, 
 the surroundings look very well put together. The characters are alright, but could be better in 
 my opinion. Sound- This game has some of the best voice acting and explosions. The music on the 
 radio is great, they even have some songs that we know, like kanye west. But there are two things 
 i dont like: I don't like the fact that your character doesnt talk at all, and that when a store 
 has a sale, its the same discount price and same commercial... but it doesnt get in the way of 
 the amazing game.
  
  This is definately worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roblucy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  gta clone, yes. But that little sentence says it all, if you liked a gta game then you will like 
 this. Its the same but looks so much nice, imagine gta as a chocolate cake and saints row as a 
 chocolate cake but with a glass of mlik. Yes i know that when you look at it in the shop and read 
 the packaging and see the pictures, your going to be thinking true crime, but dont, saints row 
 deserves to be played on its GTA CLONE comments. Saints Row is a suprise, saints row is good, saint 
 row is good because its a suprise, and hell saints row is the best your going to get till that 
 other game GTA4 or should i say SAINTS ROW CLONE come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 11122478
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  I think that this is a fantastic game. And I think that it is a lot better than any of the GTA 
 games (I have played them all) . I think the explosions (and the rest of the graphics) are fantastic, 
 but that can be expected as it is a "Next-Gen" game. The way the the aiming is done is also a lot 
 better than the way GTAs is done, and I think it is a good thing their is no lock on, it means 
 that it is actually the player that is aiming and not the game doing it for you. Only let down 
 I feel on this game is the sound, I don't really like the sort of sound they always put in these 
 sort of games, but their is A LOT more choice in this game which is why I still give the sound 
 a reasonably high rating. And of course I don't really like the prices of any of the brand new 
 Xbox 360 games, but I highly doubt that the prices will go down for them any time soon (Brand new 
 games I mean, not after they have been out for ages) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarrfive
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best GTA-clone to this date and It worth buying for your xbox 360. Games such 
 as True Crimes, Getaway and Driver have tried in the past but failed to defeat Rockstar's Grand 
 theft auto. Saints Row is a great game, came close but still failed at beating Rockstar's Grand 
 theft Auto. Maybe people called this game a "Grand Theft Auto killer" and hyped this game to be 
 atleast a 9.5 but it was clear that they were anti-GTA to some point or because they compared GTA's 
 graphics to Saints Rows. Of course a game will look better on a next gen system then a last-gen 
 system no doubt so you cannot compare the graphics of games.
  
  This game has great sound, graphics and is very addictive so If you have a Xbox 360 then by all 
 means go out and buy it. Play Saints Row until GTA 4 comes out on the Xbox 360 and the PS3. Like 
 greg said in the interview if you follow the formula that rockstar wrote then the game will turn 
 out great no doubt. This game could have been better if it had Bikes, planes, Helis and Boats which 
 would bring it in the 8.8 to 9.0 range. They replace the humor in this game with cheesy dirty jokes 
 and thats one negative thing.
  
  So if you cant wait until GTA 4 then it wouldnt hurt to go out and buy this game. This is the first 
 game like this to come out on the xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bunjii
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  damn it ppl all you say is gta gta this game is alot better i got all the gta games there good 
 but they get really old this game alot better it fun it you make your character how you want him 
 i hope they make more cuz i get them i still love gta but i think this game can give them a good 
 fight cuz all the over games like this are so gay but if you say all this is gta then what game 
 can ever get better then gta if you keep saying games can not get better then that game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjakybob
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Well if you've played this game then you can see in certain parts of the city or world that THQ 
 had copied the GTA series and even in some parts of the story as well but even thought its a total 
 copy of GTA its not as good. when you first play this game you will most likely look at the map 
 and notice that GTA SA was just a bit bigger but even thought it wasnt as big it was still fun 
 to drive around. just like GTA it had tons of funny commercials and radio stations but the music 
 thats on this game is horrible yes theres tons of music and almost every kind of genre on the 
 game the music that they picked was real bad you might like a few songs on the game but thats 
 only because they play over and over again which isnt bad cuz then you can sing along with it. 
 But overall this game will tie you down for when GTA lV arrives The Good: Completely funny cut 
 senses and radios stations, great graphics, finally a GTA style game on the 360, tons of guns and 
 cars, just a few more things you could do that GTA games couldnt like rob stores, awsome online, 
 great customizing system, able to buy things for you guy during the game like jewelry, clothes, 
 plastic surgery, and hair cuts, some store had sales like 15% off anything, tons of activities, 
 no load times, great effects.
  
  The Bad: Some missions annoying at times, why does your character only talk a few times in the 
 whole game, tons of glitches, lack of good music, repetitive commercials and voice overs for pedestrians.
 
  
  Achievements: Medium
  
  Well this game is pretty fun and will take 20+ hours to beat it but it should last you some what 
 close to the GTA lV launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gefault
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  But there just fools. The action and general atmosphere of the game suck you in and the stunning 
 graphics of the explosions, and fantastic sound effects of all the guns, it just keeps you playing 
 and playing. Story line is nothing amazing but you dont play a game like this for the drama. You 
 play it to blast some punkass **** The multiplayer game is alittle basic, and the system for getting 
 you into a game seems flawed, I join 10 games before I finally got in one. Now I dont know if its 
 because of the 3 games I have played on multiplayer, I won them all, but I think its pretty good. 
 Its basic but in a good way. Run around, shoot everyone else, stay alive. What more could you want?
 
  
  In summation, single player mode fantastic, multiplayer more than acceptable, this game is all 
 in all a great buy. If you dont buy it because you think its just another GTA, then you a fool, 
 just another GTA??? it would only have to be half as good as GTA to be a good game, and its way 
 more than that.
  
  A super Gary Thumbs Up
  
  All thats left to say is, buy this, u'll enjoy it alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGFINE
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  The good: Solid framerate, great graphics & alot of customization. There are lots of missions, 
 & even more respect missions. Has a surprisingly deep story, which dosent feel cliche or stupid. 
 There is just so much to be done in the game, plus the multiplayer is great & isent to hard to 
 shoot & hit people considering there is no aim assist. Multiple ways to finish missions, like if 
 your running from someone, cut him off get out & rocket his a$$, plus some missions require stratgie, 
 wont get to specific though.
  
  The bad: Multiplayer is laggy about 10% of the time, & yes, it's a rip-off, but a good rip-off 
 of GTA. Also includes some glitches, some in which wont let you properly finish a mission, like 
 once my driver dissapeared, & he has to drive while I shoot. When it rains in the game, everything 
 practically becomes 2x harder (Hard to see anything)
  
  -Comparison-
  
  GTA Advantages: Map size, vehicals (Boats, mortorcycles & cars) & vehical controls.
  
  SR Avantages: 
 Overall gameplay (Aiming is a dream, & drive bys are useful) Missions (Has most of what GTA has, 
 but alot more interesting & fun activities. Graphics ( oviously better, the stupid part is that 
 GTA: SA got a 8 in graphics, & they were sad for even last gen.)
  
  Gameplay- Has excellent shooting, when ever you have a weapon in your hand there is a ridicule 
 on your screen. Has no aim assist but still isent that hard to hit a target. & button placment 
 is great, like hit the bumper to sprint, & crouch click the analog. & a great drive by sceme. & 
 no load screens excluding between missions & when you first start the game. -9/10
  
  Graphics- Absolutly fantastic, has good lighting effects, through a full night & day scheduale. 
 Looks gloomy at night. & just the way the light comes from the head lights & street lights, it 
 just looks awsome. BTW: Best looking explosotions & the most satifieing in any game. - 8/10
  
  Sound- Though the demo through me off, & made me think this was going to be another lame gansta 
 theme to a great game, I was proven wrong, it wasent lame, the story felt very driven & the voice 
 acting is great, I only reconize one voice though, he plays the voice of Benjamin King, hes the 
 big black guy the was in the green mile, he also played the bouncer in A Night at the Roxbury, 
 he was in alot of movies. -9/10
  
  Value: I've got 20 hours & I'm still not completly done all the questlines, the single player overall 
 will probebly eat up 50 hours of your life, the multiplayer is good, I havent played much of it 
 but I have won all of the 3 matches I played, I came in first place. I plan to play more when I 
 get some friends gathered up some day, but from my ecperiance, it's a blast. -9/10
  
  Tilt- Honestly I havent played a game as much as I have this one, since Oblivion. I got 20 hours 
 & I've had it for today 3 days. I was going to write a review but I felt I still had to explore 
 the whole game. It's probebly the most fun I've had since my old Halo 2 online days... -10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infamous_B
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row has it's share or revolutionary aspects when it comes to the openworld genre. Things 
 like extensive character customization and the use of the Havok physics engine are all new to this 
 genre, but there are strict limitations on the sandbox gameplay that limits the overall game for 
 greatness. One of these limitations are the lack of variety between vehicles. The only vehicles 
 that can be used are cars and your character's Nikes. That alone limits the open-endedness of the 
 missions in the game. There are no boats in the game and the name of the city is called "Stilwater". 
 WTF. That' s just not right, especially for the fact that the city is loosely based on Chicago, 
 Illinois. I'm from Chicago, and let me tell you, Lake Michigan is always filled with boats. You 
 see other vehicles like planes and helicopters being used but they cant me used. That's a big problem. 
 Another problem is the fact that your character rarely talks. He himself will only talk at the 
 last cutscene of a mission strand. The developer could have had the option to add a voice selection 
 for your character, taking a page out of Def Jam: Fight for NY. Another restriction is the lack 
 of weapons in the game. I cant recall any Open-Ended game to have less than 5 melee weapons. Or 
 for that matter, a chainsaw, a flamethrower, or even a Gatling gun. Well all and all, this game 
 is still one of few games that can rival GTA, even if it's more so inspired by GTA 3 rather that 
 San Andreas. Plus the game able to receive downloads, so some the the limitations that named might 
 actually be improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
   The gameplay takes what Grand Theft Auto originally started and pushed it further. There's a 
 more organized weapon selection, more free for all in the sense of you can actually go inside buildings 
 without load times and waiting, and just physics. For instance, if you hit a chump head-on in a 
 car, the innocent will fly out of his windshield and hit either your car, asphalt, or a pole. Deadly 
 and fun.
   Pimping out your cars. That's something that everyone likes to do to your cars. There's a lot 
 of Need For Speed style pimping to do to your cars.
   The multiplayer is pretty sweet. There's a ton of good modes, such as Big A** Chains, Co-Op, 
 and just your classic Gangsta Brawl. Plus, you can basically trick your guy out with clothing, 
 jewels, and anything else in the multiplayer modes to show off your skill, as well as your bling.
 
  
  :Bad Idea:
   The multiplayer is extremely laggy for not just me, but almost everything. It's the key thing 
 holding the game from being grand. The other lag is the graphic engine. It runs well, unless a 
 movie is going on. Then it seems to slug it's butt around. It seems to run at a steady 25fps, not 
 the average 30fps.
   The graphics are a bit weak on some areas. For instance, the hair is very pixilated when up close. 
 It doesn't really look very good when you're up close on a few things. The game is well polished 
 but there's not a lot of detail in the cars as much as I'd hoped for.
   Some of the missions are just way too easy.
  
  :Overall:
   A bit better than I expected, 
 but not perfect. You'll defiantly have a blast playing around with the physics and the multiplayer, 
 as long as you don't mind the lag.
  
  -------------------------------
  
  :100% Achievement Difficulty:
   Overall, if you play through the game and dedicate a little 
 bit of time into playing the multiplayer, you'll do just fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thekey
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent excellent game. Nothing more to say about that. This game is the Wendy's of 
 GTA style games! This game does everything GTA 3 did and made it 20xs better. To say that this 
 game is a GTA clone is a farse stament. The reason why I say this is because it is more like GTA 
 with more of a focuss on gang life as opposed to crime. Its not just the escort the hoes missions 
 or gaining new hoods that makes this game. Its the story. Its a good story with a good plot, enough 
 to draw in even the most causal of gammers. Even gammers who don't like these kinds of games might 
 want to participate in some of the missions.
  
  Gameplay: Is just as great as GTA 3/ Vice city/ San Andreas with the Meat and potatoes to go with 
 it. The envornments are huge! This game is much larger than the afformentioned games. There is 
 a lot of varity in the battle sequences. Eventhough you can't fly planes there's enough go around 
 to keep you busy until either Saints Row 2 ships or GTA 4 releases.
  
  Graphics: Not the best looking 360 game, but its clear that if the PS2 or Xbox were to try and 
 do this game there processors would explode. (There is no way XBOX one could do this game in its 
 true 360 form.) It makes the 3D GTA games look like the forgetable E. T. game that came out back 
 ing 83. Its clear that copies of the game won't become landfill.
  
  Sound: sounds hauntingly real. If you get so wrapped up into the game and you live in pretty rough 
 neighborhood like I do, you may think whats going on in the game is happening out side. The Surround 
 sound is great.
  
  Value: well worth a $60 purchse, it will be a long time before it hits the bargin bin.
  
  This 
 is a great game, and the multiplayer is even better. I highly recomend this game if you have the 
 360 and want a really solid game, GO FOR IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cortinator
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row falls nothing short of spectacular. Some people may say that Saints Row is a complete 
 copy of the Grand Theft Auto series, but with an online option. In Saints Row, you are recruited 
 by the 3rd Street Saints, and they need your help to rise to the top and take over Stillwater. 
 While its single player is good, its multiplayer has some original playlists. Playlists being Protect 
 Tha Pimp, Big Ass Chains, Team Big Ass Chains, and Blinged Up Ride. In Protect Tha Pimp, its pretty 
 self explanitory. Just protect the pimp. Everyone has one life and they have to reach the exits 
 of either an Airport, a hospital, or a Record Company stuidio. everyone has guns except for the 
 pimp, he has the pimp slap which kills in one shot. Another playlist is Big Ass Chains. You basicly 
 have to get chains all over the map and drop it in the drop off zone. The Catch: if you get more 
 than 1 chain dropped off, you get bonus points for you or your team. The last playlist is Blinged 
 Up Ride. You Basacly have to get money to upgrade your ride. You can either get the chain, or you 
 can kill people for money. If your ride explodes, it downgrades by 1 level. Once you reach level 
 4 of your car, bring it to the showcase and protect it for 1 minute. This game is a real winner! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grant_Guy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10
  
  It has the same gameplay experience you will get with GTA but improves on areas such as aiming 
 is a lot better and doesn't have the stupid auto aim feature like GTA had, respect is a feature 
 that San Andreas had and it was good but in this it goes into a greater detail and gives you more 
 choices. Such as you can go around killing rival gang members, doing side misson, and doing main 
 missons. If you reach a certain ammount of respect you can do a main misson.
  
  Saint's row also has a very fun online system where you can create gangs, customize charaecters 
 and increase your trueskill. The online modes consist of: Gangster Brawl a game type where you 
 try to get the most ammount of kills before the time runs out or you hit a certain ammount to win, 
 Team Gangster Brawl which is gangster brawl but with teams in this gametype you can also play gang 
 matches in this gametype, Protect the pimp which is a gametype where one side trys to defend the 
 pimp at all costs and one side is the hitmen which try to take out the pimp for good it is my personal 
 favorite gametype. The only problem i had with the online is it is very buggy i tryed for an hour 
 to connect to a game and every time i would get dropped or it would never start. It is also laggy 
 when playing with the max amount of players but a patch is coming out for all those things.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  GTA always had medicore graphics because the enviorments where so big 
 and immersive, saints row has amazing graphics everything in this big and immersive world is all 
 detailed. The cutscenes look horrible though...
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  A very big sound track with music for everyones taste, the voice acting is also very good. A cool 
 feature in this game is you can buy songs and put it on your mp3 player (in the game) and listen 
 to it when your walking down the street.
  
  Value 10/10
  
  This is a sandbox game after all but saint's row has even more replay value with the inclusion 
 of online multiplayer and hard achievements.
  
  tilt 9/10
  
  One of the best xbox 360 games i've played the only problem is the buggy online. Buy or rent?:
 
  
  BUY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is a title that I have approached with quite a bit of skepticism. It's very hard for 
 me to look forward to a game that is in a genre filled with GTA clones. I personally never thought 
 much of GTA past GTA 3. However, for many gamers, the GTA franchise is the pride of their collection. 
 We've all heard this game compared to GTA in a million different reviews. So, after spending some 
 serious time with Saint's Row, I have reached my personal decisions about the game. However, I 
 will be reserving those for post-review so as to deliver an unbiased review about Saint's Row. 
 How does Volition's latest software match up against Rockstar's cash cow? Let's jump into the Game 
 Breakdown and find out.
  
  Graphics: There's no denying that the graphics in Saint's Row are very crisp. The character models 
 look fantastic, especially the main character. Car models are much more realistic than we have 
 become accustomed to in games like this, and the explosion effects are a sight to behold. The fire 
 effects are probably some of the best we have seen out of the 360 thus far. Gun models are solid, 
 and customizing your character never gets old thanks to the many options the game gives you to 
 make your character look exactly as you want him to.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is pretty good. The firearms are a shining point I would say, as 
 the guns sound very realistic and don't deliver the standard "pop pop" sound you'd expect. The 
 voiceovers are solid, with some very good performances. Some of the script is a little on the cheesy 
 side, but somehow they work it right into the game. Engine sounds leave some to be desired, but 
 are by no means bad. Alot of really neat little clips here and there from NPC's are just funny.
 
  
  Controls: They quickly become second nature. At first, I was very confused upon looking at the 
 inventory menu. Volition decided to integrate the inventory menu into the heads-up display. At 
 any time, simply hold down the B button and the menu will appear. Use the left thumbstick to make 
 your selection, and wa-la... done. I was very impressed with the ease of use. Designating the right 
 bumper button for sprinting makes the control feel very comfortable and easy to master. Driving 
 is a bit trickier, but after a few minutes of getting used to maneuvering the camera, you'll be 
 flying around corners and drifting with the handbrake. Not too shabby to say the least.
  
  Gameplay: This game is fun. And that, to me, is what alot of developers have lost sight of. They 
 don't focus on controversy, they don't shove everything in your face... they just make a fun, free-roaming 
 game that you can sit down and play that actually has a good story. Again, you play the new kid 
 on the block working your way up the food chain. Missions in this game are based on respect. That 
 is to say, in order to progress from mission to mission, you will have to play mini-games to fill 
 up your respect meter. This game is one of the very few that I can actually say, I liked the mini-games 
 alot. Although some of the things in this game don't make physical sense (When you play the Escort 
 missions, the media vans are faster than your limo by far and appear out of thin air the second 
 you pick up the client) , it's still alot of fun. The missions seem to have just the right amount 
 of difficulty as well. I really appreciated the way that, when you fail a mission, unlike GTA, 
 Saint's asks you if you would like to retry the mission. This saves you the time of driving all 
 the way back out to the icon on the map. Very helpful. And whoever decided to include a health 
 bar that replenishes when you aren't getting hit, ala Halo 2, was a genious. It really helps to 
 balance the difficulty when you can duck out of a fierce fight and hide long enough to get your 
 health back. There's customization options galore in this game, from the character to your cars. 
 And that's what I like. Options. Give me tons, and that's exactly what Saint's Row has. A custom 
 character wearing custom clothes in a custom truck/car driving around a wide open city. Can you 
 name something that even compares to the fun to be had with that? Dead Rising doesn't count... but 
 seriously, it's a blast to play and the story always makes you wonder what's next, something GTA 
 never ever did for me. All in all, if you have a 360, you really shouldn't miss out on Saint's 
 Row. The only issues I had with the game were some downright awful breakups in the environment 
 graphics in places. Sometimes I'd be driving and the whole road would disappear. A tad more time 
 in beta and this game would be a ten. As it stands though, it's still a very solid title and one 
 that no 360 owner should pass up the chance to experience. As a rental, I can easily recommend 
 this one, although if you get hooked on it, you will want to purchase it, so that's up to your 
 discretion. As a purchase, this is one of those rare games that I really feel like I got my $60 
 worth. Volition has raised the bar with Saint's Row. Maybe now Rockstar will actually show some 
 originality in their GTA line and make a game that isn't just a copy of GTA 3 with new polish and 
 no story. Until they do, however, Saint's Row is definitly the new Don of this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mish55
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Saints row as you would probably know is a gta clone. People say "why are games that copy gta always 
 clones?? why cant it be its own genre??"
  well i would agree with that statement if saints row actually did something different. If youve 
 played driver 3 and 4 (horrid games) and true crime 1 and 2 (also horrid) they didnt play like gta, 
 they had their own original play style but it mimmicked gta. Saints row however plays exaclly like 
 gta, not controls, not camera, not online but the concept. All you do is drive around, shoot people 
 with lots of guns. Get caught by cops and cause more mayhem. Its fun in this game but nothings 
 different. You did the same in gta.
  
  Saints row is probably the best gta copy ever made. It looks good. It plays just as good. And its 
 a decent game.
  
  The graphics in saints row arent spectacular but are really bright and pretty to look at. The cars 
 are nice and shiny but bland looking. The character models are also colorful but really smooth. 
 The game has its own cool gansta style theme, but its too cliche.
  
  The sound in this game is very very cliched. Gangsta talk is all through this game with words like 
 "playa", and such. The sound in this game is great with car screechs, engines reving, guns blazing, 
 and etc. The sound track in this game is pretty good. Lots of rap music and some of the other genres. 
 The games has lots of great actors, but its too bad they had to act like "gangstas."
  
  The controls in saints row are heavenly. Its great that they use first person controls because 
 its easier to move and shoot however you want rather than stopping to aim. The game plays fluidly 
 and is just really fast.
  
  The game has a story that is ok to listen to but nothing special. The acting is nice enough to 
 make you listen but then again the story is all about gangs. One thing that pisses me off about 
 volition is that in a GAMEPRO magazine, there was an interview with a person from volition. They 
 had the 8 annoying things about gta. They made fun of gtas humour "saying that taking a hooker 
 in a car and watching it bounce is immature". They also make fun of how bad the graphics were in 
 gta most notably "the club like hands". What makes me mad is that theyre making fun of a game on 
 a current gen system. Saying its graphics are ugly and yet theyre working on a next gen title that 
 doesnt look that great by todays standards. Then they make fun of gtas humour which many people 
 find hilarious and they have a resturaunt called "freckle **** They kinda dont have the right to 
 make fun of a game that inspired them to make their own, exaclly how it was and then not improve 
 on anything really that much better on it.
  
  This games sense of humor is dirty and sometimes a little low brow. Youll chuckle a few times.
 
  
  The game has multiplayer which is fun. Theres the standard deathmatch but then theres protect the 
 pimp in which your team escorts the pimp while the other tries to kill him. The pimp has a deadly 
 "bitchh slap". They also have blinged (sigh) out ride in which the two teams have to make their 
 ride as BLINGED OUT as they can.
  
  This game doesnt stray to far of from gta, if you cant wait for gta4, definetly get this game. 
 Plays like gta without the boats, jets, planes, and motorcycles. Theres no originality in this 
 game though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiroaku
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, it is in fact a great game. I'm a big fan and follower of the GTA series from 
 day one and I think that is one of THE best franchises out there given the ratio of gameplay, mission 
 variability, mission difficulty, learning curve, entertainment, fun factor and the list goes on. 
 I thought, especially with the past short comings (True Crimes: Streets of NY, 25 to Life, DRIV3R, 
 NARC) , that Saint's Row would've been suspect, but I was proven wrong with this one.
  Granted it is highly reminiscent of GTA, it has it's difference's and better features about it, 
 when compared to GTA: San Andreas (being the most recent and most advanced GTA) . This game is loads 
 of fun, and has extreme detail in just about everything you do. I will always be a devout GTA fan, 
 but this game has made it on my list, it's good to see someone else have success with the free 
 roaming chaos formula too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordkevman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is by far the best sandbox crime game out on any console so far, i mean it does take 
 things from the GTA games but it improves on all of these factors and turns them into a next gen 
 masterpiece, although it does have some glitches they dont really spoil the game play at all. The 
 shooting system in and out of a vehicle is superb, the map is as big as vice city and is fully 
 expolrible from the beginning!! The activitys that are availible from the beginning anywhere on 
 the map are awesome, there is nothing like flinging your self in front of traffic to earn money 
 or crashing up cars in the demolition derby. The missions are awesome and if some one says to you 
 that the character that you make up from scratch doesnt speak then they are wrong although he doesnt 
 speak often he does speak and when you hear him speak you feel like yeah my guy sed that. In all 
 this game is a brilliant game and a must buy for everyone who has an xbox 360, buy this game!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayne2k7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  After waiting some time for the release of this game after the demo, the wait is finally over!
 
  1st thing to note is this is not trying to be another GTA. You can tell this is greatly inspired 
 by the series but in my opinion this game is better and more gripping.
  There's a shed-load of missions, shops, activities to find and a massive map to explore. The customizations 
 seem endless on the character and cars throughout the game.
  There are plenty of weapons to keep you happy on your quest to take the city.
  Graphics are great 
 but as mentioned nearly everywhere there are small bugs in the game. Once the patch is released, 
 this game will be a must!
  Online play adds to the fun and there will be downloadable content in the near future!
  A great 
 buy! The 1st of many great games to be released towards the end of 2006!
  Both thumbs up for this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GHANZ979
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  In essence this feels like a demo of what is to come when the new Grand theft auto 4 comes out. 
 However, Volition added in other new features to the open world carl jacking world that kept the 
 fomula fresh fom what could be a simple clone of Grand theft auto.
  The most misleading part of the game is the demo provided on Xbox live-terrible and insanely cliche. 
 However after the intro the story becomes very intersting as the story branches out into your rival 
 gang missions.
  The only annoying part of this game is coming to grips to the fact that you HAVE to play the mini 
 battles/games in order to attempt the missions that take over territory and advance the story line. 
 That and the fact that while your hideout provides many things to do-there just isant enough incentive 
 to return to your hideout that often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row was a game that interested me since to me it basically seemed like the Grand Theft 
 Auto for the Xbox, instead of waiting 6 months for a port of San Andreas or another Grand Theft 
 Auto, and I mean that literally. This game is so much like the already made Grand Theft Autos it 
 might as well have the name on it. There are some things which are different (Both good and bad) 
 but the good news of that is that it combines everything good from Vice City and Grand Theft Auto 
 3 and basically combines them into one game.
  
  I left San Andreas out there because of a few faults which become imminent upon a few minutes into 
 the game. Although Saint's Row has Cars and On-Foot action there's a lack of any water action or 
 being airborne. Luckily the game is not afraid of things being in the air though. Games like True 
 Crime streets of LA and other clones try to restrict themselves to the ground as much as possible, 
 to the point where you're car can't even jump off the road going fast up hill. That's not the case 
 of Saint's Row, the rag doll physics add a lot of love of the game. Running over civilians has 
 never been so much fun, whether they flip over your car normally or go flying into a brick wall 
 the results are always satisfying. It really shows they love the rag doll physics and every aspect 
 of the game by all the side missions. You've got things like Hitman which is hunting down people 
 in the city and killing them with a certain weapon for the leaders of the city. Drug Trafficking 
 where you help a drug dealer (Or loving mother) finish some deal by keeping rival gangs and cops 
 off you, or my favorite, Insurance Fraud where you throw yourself in front of cars and get money. 
 The first time you dive in front of an 18 wheeler and fly into a store door knocking a few people 
 down, is priceless.
  
  While they're all creative to call them "side missions" would not be true. The way the game is 
 constructed is that you have a "Respect Bar" which is a purple semi circle in the top right hand 
 corner. When you fill up the bar once you get an "x1" next to it, if you do it again you'll see 
 an "x2" and so on. These are used to do the real missions, and are basically tokens. Each story 
 mission requires you to have one full bar of respect, when you finish the mission the respect bar 
 (Or token) you used goes away. It's a good way to introduce players to the fun "side" games or 
 go on rampages but it doesn't really make that much sense.
  
  Making sense isn't really a main theme for Saint's Row though. There are a few flaws in it's system, 
 one major one being that if you pop a tire on one side of your car you'll tilt that way. However, 
 get out and pop ALL your tires, you drive normally again, you might have some braking problems 
 but it's hardly noticeable. But making sense isn't always a bad thing, there are a lot of creative 
 characters in the story but unfortunately they didn't realize their strong points. You have great 
 characters like a Spanish Bodyguard who can survive being blown up and lit on fire, a mob king 
 with a nice dark voice, and a tough asian kid who loves to blow things up, Though none of these 
 characters have a defining moment. They all sort of appear and disappear, and by the time they 
 die or leave you forget them almost immediately, the game needs a bit work on making some characters 
 important and some not. However there's a reason for this.
  
  Which is the game being very open, at the beginning of the game you have the choice to start taking 
 down the Vice Kings, Rollers, or Los Carnales. They all have their own missions but if you're stuck 
 on the Vice Kings you can go ahead and switch to the Rollers or Los Carnales. But you shouldn't 
 experience it that too often since the game overall is pretty easy. As mentioned before there's 
 only driving and running. You can't do much with that, most missions consist of having big battles 
 which works pretty well. You'll normally have two or three homies with you raiding or attacking 
 a whole bunch of enemies. Shooting down gang members and cops is funner then ever with the all 
 manual aiming though, so the shooting never gets stale.
  
  There are a bunch of good features to go with the aiming, as said before the rag doll physics. 
 The smarter gang AI than San Andreas, though there are no commands which would've been helpful 
 in "Stronghold" missions (More on that later) it's nothing too terrible. There's other features 
 such as being able to customize your character, that comes at a price though as your character 
 rarely talks. Some believe he's mute, however he speaks at the end of 2 out of 3 "last missions" 
 for the gangs. But the customization is very good, you can get hats, beanies, nit caps, jewelry, 
 shirts, wife beaters, jeans, "pimp pants", a suit, and a bunch of other combinations. But there's 
 a problem with it.
  
  The game is very heavy on making you wear gang clothes. The Saint's Color is purple, and you have 
 a "style" points for all clothing you wear. The higher style the more respect you get for doing 
 side missions or rampages. So as you can guess if a Black T-Shirt is +5 Style, then a purple one 
 is +10, which pretty much forces you to wear the same thing the entire game since few expensive 
 things come in purple. However after beat the main storyline you should be free enough to choose 
 your own clothes. Other things you can customize include your hair, how you look (You can go to 
 a plastic surgeon at any time and change yourself completely) , what cars you drive, and a few other 
 things.
  
  To wrap this up, Saint's Row is so close to Grand Theft Auto, that if it was released in 2003 with 
 the Grand Theft Auto name people would believe that. It's a good game overall. There are some other 
 things you can do, like a Multiplayer that has a lot of potential but as of right now has boring 
 maps and laggy games. However the Single Player experience is a must have for all Xbox360 owners 
 or GTA lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D_Master1991
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  Hi there, welcome to Stillwater.
  In Stillwater you join the 3rd Street Saints, a gang with lots of members and they all are pretty 
 smart, they'll never walk in your line of fire during missions or shoot-outs, the AI is really 
 good.
  The city is beautifull, the peacefull sub urbs and the busy downtown area with lots of lights and 
 luxury cars are places you really need to visit, you can do this by car, there are lots of different 
 cars, each one of them with a unique look and feel.
  In the city you can hear detailed sounds of cars and guns, trains and nice voices from the people 
 living there.
  Stillwater is being protected by the police, which often chase gang members and other criminals, 
 the city feels very alive.
  Be sure to check this place out because you'll never get bored, you can make money with insurance 
 fraud, pimp your cars, buy weapons and use them, and do lots of other fun stuff
  In Europe you can book a trip to Stillwater for 60 Euro's, and its worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jking98
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  I love playing this game I think its so much better than the GTA games. I bought vice city and 
 gta 3 and lost interest in those games really quick cause I didnt really see what was so good about 
 them. I never get tired of Saints row cause its so much fun with the story and buying your charector 
 clothes and getting differnt haircuts. When I first heard of the game I didnt really care about 
 it, but now im glad I bought it cause I love this game, I get home from work at night and I sit 
 up and play it till like 4 in the morning. Its a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haukke
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  The game is just plain fun. no need to compare it to anything. just put the disk in and play. anyone 
 who bought the game and is complaining about it just need to go play something else and stop. if 
 you went to gamestop and preordered it they gave out the free demo. if you downloaded the demo from 
 marketplace and played it then bought it and did'nt like it then thats plain dumb. thats like buying 
 madden then realizing that after you got it home it was only football. who cares if it kinda like 
 gta. i think thats good. more games need to be like this. car customization is cool and mission variety 
 is good. worth playing for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradyboy5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  When i started playing the game i thought this seems the same as gta but once you start doing missions 
 and earning cash to buy all different type of stuff including cloths guns etc it feels alot better 
 than gta and also the sound in the game is amazing + the graphics is mazing, the only thing missing 
 to make the game 10 out of 10 is plane bikes and helicopters - even thou the game don, t have these 
 its still fun to play and another thing is drive by is way fun than gta and when fireing a gun 
 it sounds like your fireing a real gun, so if you get this game like i did its worth every cent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Android2O2
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 2, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  I played the demo of this and thought it was better than Gta but you got to rember GTA is a year 
 old and not for 360 so its bound to be better. i find the game worth playing as its months before 
 gta comes out but there is no flow game its gang wars only. GTA had missions brake ins to me its 
 the same game again to San Andreas upgraded to 360. To me its your view if you find this game good 
 but i think give it 4 months and this game will only be played by a couple of people and will be 
 cheap preownd in Shops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panda4
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  Thoughtfully surpasses Grand Theft Auto in a "Gangsta" way. Much more teamwork and group missions 
 than Grand Theft Auto's solo style. The vehicles are made to fit the setting more (i. e. pimped out 
 low riders) . The controls are easy to pick up after 5-10 minutes of gameplay and the characters 
 are fully customizable. The neighborhoods and highways are immensly submersible. The cops are a 
 good and realistic difficulty, unlike GTA in which you kill a few people and the national guard 
 is on your ass. You are able to swim and warp to shore which makes it easier than swiming around 
 an island for half an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLACKFIRE2142
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 2, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  With only a couple of things missing, this game is proboally one of the best Xbox 360 games out 
 there right now... Great graphics, AWESOME gameplay and sweet music, Saints Row has got to be one 
 of my favorite 360 games.
  
  The character creation in this game if fantastic, a great variety of hairstyles and other features, 
 but one of the flaws in the game is that you can only drive cars. Yep, cars. No motorcycles, boats 
 or airplanes for you pal, get used to the common cars that you find in the game. Besides that, 
 the game is great and I think every 360 owner should have it, (or at least try it!!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander_90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is a great game. Its an awesome shooter. Saints Row offers plenty of weapons for destuction. Saints 
 Row offer single player and multi player. Both are very enjoyibleThere are also plenty of cheats 
 too. The main thing in saints row is RESPECT. You play to earn respect. so you can have fun playing 
 the game causing mayhem and also at the same time unlocking new missions. Ragdoll phicics is another 
 thing. it make everything so realistic. You can do four diffirent storielines anytime you want. Saints 
 Row is not a GTA copie no matter what anyone says. Saints Row is the real deal. Its the best sanboxgame 
 to date. Buying saints row is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  It's been almost five years since a game called Grand Theft Auto III revolutionized the free-roaming 
 genre. What Rockstar Games did was create a living breathing universe in which political correctness 
 knew no bounds. Ethnic stereotypes abound, you played as a white sociopath performing high-paying 
 oddjobs for underground criminal organizations. You did business with Italians, blacks, Asians, 
 rednecks... you name it.
  
  A year later, Rockstar unveiled Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, which took a step back in time to 
 an imatation Miami of the '80s. Scarface was a heavy influence for that. Two years later, San Andreas 
 hit store shelves, this time focusing on the African American culture of the early '90s. Heavy 
 cinematic influences were such urban films as Menace II Society and Higher Learning, along with 
 a very clever Ocean's Eleven heist spoof, as well as a Bonnie and Clyde spoof that involved the 
 main character and his female companion robbing a series of small-town shops.
  
  The games became targets to protesters for seemingly embracing sociopathic lifestyles, the most 
 notorious of which is Jack Thompson, an attorney from Florida, who is well-known in the video-gaming 
 culture for his anti-video-game rants. But in no way, shape, or form did that stop gamers from 
 buying such violent games, and thus Rockstar continues to develop them.
  
  Needless to say, other game developers have tried to imitate what Rockstar started. We've had The 
 Getaway, True Crime: Streets of L. A., and its sequel True Crime: New York City, none of which were 
 the successes that the GTA series was, nor were these games well-received.
  
  And now, Voilition has unveiled the first free-roaming crime game for next-generation consoles. 
 Saints Row for the Xbox 360 is here. It is most reminiscent to GTA III, because you play as a silent 
 character. Of course it's different in that it looks prettier, but Saints Row provides an interesting 
 twist: it enables you to design your own character, much like in The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. You 
 have a highly detailed list of categories such as hair, physical structure, skin complexion, etc. 
 And each category allows significantly detailed modifications to your character. Dare I say it, 
 Saint's Row is the best rip-off I've played in years.
  
  In Saints Row, you play a thug in the wrong place at the wrong time, but are rescued by the purple-clad 
 gang dubbed the Saints. After proving yourself worthy only in the first mission, you become a member 
 of this washed out gang and become key to working your gang's way back up to the top.
  
  And if that wasn't San Andreas enough, Saints Row provides various side missions that GTA had not 
 yet thought up of. One example is that if you jack a multi-passenger car, the remaining passenger (s) 
 sometimes don't escape, leaving you to start a "Hostage" mission in which you speed around the 
 city for a short amount of time until your hostage pays the ransom. During this time you cannot 
 stop or your hostage will get away.
  
  Another original concept was Saints Row's version of store robberies. This is, in part, due to 
 Saints Row's targeting setup. While GTA had a very simple auto-targeting setup, Saints Row requires 
 you to do a bit of work; to rob a store, you must keep the targeting reticle on the clerk and follow 
 him or her back to the safe.
  
  Saints Row also has music stores in which you can purchase songs to play on your in-game MP3 player 
 while causing mayhem on the streets. I rather fancy classical music during such events, perhaps 
 because of my fetish for Stanley Kubrick films, particularly A Clockwork Orange. As I shot up cops, 
 rival gangs, and innocent civilians, I was mused by the tunes of Rossini's "La Gazza Ladra" or 
 Beethoven's "Ninth Symphony." The experience seemed more cinematic than ever before.
  
  And the game's visuals are breathtaking. While there are still spots of flat textures -- particularly 
 streets -- there is so much in the game to stare in awe at. The game's explosions are beautiful 
 and vividly detailed. The particle effects are sights to behold. There is so much attention to 
 detail put into the game that was never possible with the Playstation 2 and the original Xbox. 
 (Although that's soon to change when Rockstar unveils Grand Theft Auto IV for the 360 and the PS3 
 next October.)
  
  Saint's Row may only have sprinkles of originality, but those small sprinkles can make all the 
 difference in the world. And since this is the first free-roam universe crime action game for next-gen 
 consoles, Saints Row will forever hold a special place in the gaming hall-of-fame. What a glorious 
 rip-off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bremsy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  It's been a while since I typed a review about anything. But when was the last time a game came 
 out that was worth reviewing?
  
  The graphics are amazing compared to GTA. No arguments about it. The shadows in the game and the 
 lighting are done very well. The bodies are done nicely. The voices and some of the car sounds 
 in this game are decent to. and the explosions.. i am very impressed.
  
  Although there are some things from GTA i wished were in this game such as Motorbikes, Boats and 
 planes/helicopters. But this isn't GTA so you can't complain. The character creation at the beginning 
 of the game is one thing i like a lot in this since it was never really added in the GTA series. 
 You can pretty much customize your character in any way you want (Skin colour, eyes, etc.. some 
 things GTA never gave you the option of doing) .
  
  One thing that disapoints me a little is how ridiculously easy some missions can be. I have maybe 
 failed one mission once and that was it. It's too easy to beat some missions.
  
  Now at the risk of sounding like a GTA fanboy, I feel 8.5 is the best this game can get from me. 
 It may be no GTA, but it's still a great game. This game could have gotten a higher rating if it 
 went and did the impossible. Add something we haven't really seen before in a GTA like game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is the most addicting and fun crazy action game I have ever played. FIrst of all, the 
 map is hugeeee, which gives a lot more freedom. Second, there are almost unlimited things to do, 
 basically whatever you want! Example: Hijack a civilian car, get on the interstate, and CRASH INTO 
 ONCOMING TRAFFIC AT HIGH SPEEDS!!! Second, the campaign is VERY LONG! Fight gangs, complete activities, 
 etc etc
  
  MULTIPLAYER ROCKS!!! There are a bunch of very inoovative gametypes online including CO OP! ITs 
 so fun to make a gang online and challenge other gangs.
  
  This game rocks. I've played all the grand theft auto games, and this beats every single one of 
 them. Hands Down.
  
  jman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjarvis321
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  After all the months of speculation , saying how Saints Row wont be good at all and will be a complete 
 waste. Well that was all wrong!, Saints Row is probably THE best game out on the 360 so far as 
 its value is incredible. The graphics and gameplay are excellent, especially the gameplay which 
 is much better than i thought it would be. Just picture this game like GTA San Andreas, except 
 there is no motorcycles or planes!. Not a big deal at all, as the quality and quantity of the cars 
 in Saints row is unbelievable.
  
  The game itself will last over 20+ hours not inlcuding side missions etc. Online play is brilliant 
 and soon theres going to be loads of Downloadable content.
  
  This game lives up to all the hype and is the most addictive game i have played in years. Its really 
 great, but dont get me wrong, GTA will stay on top for now, BUT Saints row is climbing very close 
 to FIRST PLACE.
  
  Overall GREAT game and is a must buy for anyone. My review is very fair and im not going to give 
 it a 10/10 or 9.8 or whatever just because others have or just because it looks that good, il be 
 very fair and honest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroRPGmaker
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 1, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game had a lot of hype, but Volition, while presenting a great game, failed to live up to 
 the hype they set. The first thing you'll notice about this game is the customization abilities. 
 You'll be able to create your player from scratch and the options for doing so are just awe inspiring. 
 You'll be able to make a character that looks just like you, or your favorite celebrity. Sadly 
 to say the character creation is about as great as it gets. The clothes selection is pretty lame 
 (we can only hope that XBL downloads will save us) . I guess Volition considers a t-shirt that has 
 six different colors as six different kinds of clothes. The same is for the car customization: 
 really lame. Car enthusiast will be sadly disappointed at number of car customization choices that 
 exist, but any average person will be satisfied.
  
  The way you play the game is a fresh twist on things. There is a main storyline (though its not 
 going to win any awards) , but to play the missions you must earn respect. To earn respect you can 
 choose from a good number of activities that fit your style. You like racing, then race. You like 
 stealing, then steal. You like killing people, then kill. There is a total of 11 activities each 
 with their own personality.
  
  Another great aspect to the game is the ability to start gang wars. Unlike San Andreas gang wars 
 are treated like the wanted level in the GTA series. You kill some men of the opposite gang and 
 you gain a level. Higher the levels the more members that try to hunt you down and kill you. It's 
 really interesting and gives a new flavor to the open-world genre in whole.
  
  The game is great, the online play is okay, and in the end it will come down to personal taste. 
 There lies glitches and other annoying control schemes that plague this game, but the positives 
 defiantly outweigh the bad. Honestly this game isn't a must have, but you wont be upset about dishing 
 out the $59.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drumerdude361
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Good: Graphics kill gta by a long shot as everyone expected. I like the variety of car that you 
 can drive. The effects of the surroundings. The explosions of the cars are really tight. You can 
 do a huge variety of things to raise your respect. And the online play is pretty sweet
  Bad: From what ive seen there arent a whole lot of guns. In the online play there are alot of glitches 
 and it takes alot of time to load. Thought the graphics are good, if you look in the distance it 
 gets kind of blurry. But thats about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJC36091
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is GTA w/ better graphics and gunplay, but without planes, motorcycles, and witty humor. 
 This game completly rips off GTA, but who cares because GTA was an excellant game. Saints Row is 
 extremely fun to play. The graphics and details are superb. There are some flaws here and there 
 but GTA had them too. The sound rocks except for the "humor" which is not that funny. Even if there 
 arent many different types of vehicles, There are a sh! tload of cars and they really look great. 
 If you like action games and you thought GTA was a blast, pick this one up it's great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoungerob01903
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  OK, i know everyone is saying this is a rip off of GTA! It is remarkable how alike it is but there 
 are many differances.
  This is more in depth and colurfull, the graphics are awesome and game play to boot.
  The missions 
 are spot on, and my god there are lots to do which for me makes for a good game.
  There are many differences between this and GTA firstly the clothing aspect, boozing and d**g taking!!
 
  This is pushing boundrys that GTA would never think of doing.
  Now this is what i have been waiting for "online multiplayer" OMG online gang war, iv only played 
 it for a few mins but wow its so cool. You can recruit friends into your gang!
  This is a must buy for any xbox gamer, If your not an xbox gamer buy one and this game and your 
 life will be full filled, Maybe sell your psp ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bscool1978
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  Thursday night 21:15
  
  There I am ripping away the shrink wrap on my copy of Saints Row, trying hard to get that annoying 
 sticky security tape of without tearing the actual case cover. Being a big GTA fan I could not wait 
 to play this game to see if they have out done Rockstar's latest world beater GTA San Andreas.
 
  First I created my character, who for some bizarre reason looks like a cross between jimmy somerville 
 and John Cena from the WWE. This is a first for me as I cant stand creating/modding in games. But 
 this was actually very good fun and quite enjoyable creating the person you want him to look like... by 
 the way you can always change this at the local Plastic surgery clinic for large fee.
  You start off being propositioned by a hoe saying "wanna a good time babyjust as a rival gang 
 do a drive-by and shoot another rival gang right in front of you. The only gang member left steps 
 upto you and pulls out a nine and that is when Julian comes to the rescue and shoots the gang member. Before 
 you know it you are entered in the Saints Row gang.
  The inniciation into the gang was a great start to the game, basically try and beat off the whole 
 gang before you pass out from taking an ass-whooping.
  Then you have the missions which you can only do when you have enough respect, which you achieve 
 by doing jobs such as pimpin' , robberies, and drive-bys on the local gang.
  What is a good idea is that you can do any mission at any time , in any order, 36 missions all-in-all 
 to do. So you might want to do some hits on suspects, or act as courier for top class hoe's. The 
 missions are endless and very entertaining.
  The attention to detail in this game is incredible, right from the brickwork in the buildings to 
 the spinning alloys on certain vehicles. The atmosphere in the game is so well done with the slums 
 and backstreets being so dark and handy for escaping police if you have been caught robbing the 
 local drugs R 'us store. Yes that is correct, you are the villian for wiping the streets clean from 
 scum, not the bloke selling anything from bongs to spliffs and cheap extra strength imported beer. This 
 is another great feature in this game which is not in the GTA series, if you are caught by police 
 and they are on your trail you can either hit top gear and out drive them and lose them, or you 
 can run away and hide out in a dark alleyway. This makes it so realistic I was stunned, especially 
 when a shootout is in progress and you just happen to be a bystander, you can just sit there watching 
 the police doing their best to shoot at anything but the criminal.
  Graphics are superb and colorful, right down to the heavily detailed city area's to the bling around 
 your neck. I just love getting into a Range Rover and driving through the night with the most powerful 
 headlamps showing me the way. The framerate has also been greatly improved since the demo that was 
 released on LIVE ARCADE. By this I mean you can accelerate to top speed and there is no slow ups 
 on the car or the creation of the areas you are in. As this was a major problem in the GTA series, 
 we have all been there driving at top speed to avade the police and all of a sudden a condo turns 
 up out of nowhere and you end up doing a kamikaze into the second floor.
  Music is superb, probaly not as good as the GTA series but you still get some great radio shows 
 and the comedy value is there also, so if like me you are sad and like to kick back in your beemer 
 and listen to the shows as your planning your next waypoint to your next destination you will not 
 be dissapointed. Again another great addition which GTA never had is waypoints, basically if you 
 need to get to another destination which is quite far you can set a waypoint which actually shows 
 you the roads you need to drive down, which shows up on your HUD for easy viewing.
  The weaponary is extensive ranging from varieties of pistols, shotguns, automatics and explosive. You 
 can walk into the local weapons for sale shop with 400 dollars and pick up that 0.44 magnum with 
 a 10% off if you suffer from paranoia. And walk around the streets knowing that you are making a 
 difference.
  Health is a key factor here, as GTA showed us, dropping into your local fast food joint will replenish 
 your health, but you can also store food items in your inventory for when you are low on health 
 from taking a bullet in the ass. Also one fantastic little gem in this game is when you kill a gang 
 member, not only can you take his gun and money but also his burger with extra cheese, which I 
 think is genius.
  The friends option on your mobile is a nice little touch, as the game progresses you do little 
 favors for certain individuals, who if you need backup and there is no homie in sight just call 
 them on the mobile and your new friend will turn up in minutes to help you in your mission/activity. Its 
 good to talk !
  
  All told I am a big GTA fan with all the titles in my collection, and I can honestly say that this 
 is a great cover and does that little bit more. I suppose we can expect this and more when GTA 4 
 comes out next year on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_manboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Saints Row, as much as long-time GTA fans hate it, is a fairly unique game. I hate that every game 
 like this that's made is called a Grand Theft Auto ripoff, that's like saying that every First 
 Person Shooter is a ripoff of Doom. Free Roaming Shooters are a genre now, and people need to get 
 used to that.
  The storyline in this game is amazing, it's so much easier to follow than San Andreas'. The actual 
 gameplay is great too, although the police are a little bit too easy to evade, the combination 
 of the stunning graphics and the Havok physics engine make this game extremely realistic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Its just GTA with a lot of things missing out. this games benefits are the controls they are slightly 
 more controlable than GTA. the game is good but just too damn easy and i wont be surprised if this 
 company is a rockstar company under a different name or something like that cos the game plays 
 too much like it, from the sounds to the animations its pretty much the same game. It just looks 
 a tiny bit better.
  
  the online mode is the laggiest experience ive ever played so if u have no patience, please stay 
 away.
  
  Overall the game is a deffinate buy but dont expect it to be fresh or deliever something you havent 
 seen cos its just xbox's own GTA. If someone can confirm that the developers of this game are in 
 no way connected at all to rockstar then all i can say is they just copied a game and took out 
 the little things that made GTA all its fun, such like taxi missions and vigilate . . .im not sure 
 if u unlock this later or not but atm i can t do taxi missions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdhegs
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  It took me a day or two before I could pull the trigger on this one as I am a gamer dad with young 
 kids in the house. I was concerned that the incredible amount of prfanity would get me in some 
 trouble with the wife-unit as well as set a bad exaple for my kids. After posting on the forums 
 and experimenting with the very well done demo. I realized you could tun the voices off completely 
 to allow playtime while the kisd were around. That said I will move on and say that this game is 
 INCREDIBLE from a technological standpoint and to being a just flat out blast to play!
  
  The graphics and sound are miles ahead of anything GTA has produced! The incorporation of a robust 
 character creation process is impressive! The overall look of the game, city and cutscenes are 
 close to the best the 360 has to offer! No load times is a plus as well! As far as gameplay and 
 control are concerned, as many have stated this is just like GTA tuned up a bit. For that matter 
 this game is very much like GTA in all respects just polished and perfected. The mission structure 
 is very well done and the world opens up to you very early on to let you go and do whatever you 
 want to do and align yourself with whoever you want.
  
  I have had somuch fun just running the sub-missions and pimping out my character and cars! I spent 
 almost a 1/2 hour just tweaking my car and shoppiung for clothing and tats! The sub-missions, especially 
 the insurance fraud missions are very funny. It seems a lot of though was put into making this 
 game an enjoyable experience.
  
  The only beef I have ... I know I have stated this before, is the excessive language. I f only 
 a profanity filter were added I would give this game the highest mak. However, after getting pounded 
 with the F-Bomb over and over it get kind of annoying!
  
  All-in-all a very, very fun game and an incredible ride! I hope this game will set the bar even 
 higher for future clones and even GTA! It's that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  first off , what gamespot and ign said about saint row is really harsh , saying that it's a rip-off 
 of GTA ,THQ said it in theire own mouth that it's inspired by gta and i think rockstar is really 
 really flattered right now .
  
  bottom of line , if you like GTA your gonna like it more and you will hope that there will be a 
 second one , and some of you who is saying that gta is better than SR , he is laying , because 
 he knows that he is wrong , and he is no doubt a GTA fan and he don't want to make it bad , im 
 not saying that i don't like this game , everything that GTA was bugy on it , SR took it and improved 
 it well and any GTA fan knows that .
  
  everyone knows all about SR so im not gonna right anything about it . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopoo909
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  Saints row is the best GTA knock to date , easily beating the likes of driver , true crime and 
 the getaway in terms of fun and game play. How ever no where near the excellance of any of the 
 grand theft auto's this is a essential purchase for any xbox 360 owner. Next time THQ put some 
 planes copters bikes and boats and you could be a real rival to san andreas. Downsides? frame rate 
 can get choppy during hectic sequences and the humor tries to hard to be better than GTA's noir 
 comedy. but overall a great addition to the 360's line up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digitz99
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  I tried the demo and once i played the demo I wanted the game. I love it its just like gta series 
 but better graphics (dont live up to 360 graphics tho) . I can't wait till i try online it sounds 
 good to. If you got a 360 and you also got 70$/Cdn (that's not in use) then buy saints row. GO ON 
 go buy the game you know you want it. Stop reading this and go buy it. What your not gone yet you 
 oh it to yourself GO!
  
  p. s. this is just to get more words cause i cant say 100 words about but i could say one word "awesome". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xrm150
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  First off the graphics for this game is great. Of course there are a few bugs here and there but 
 that is the case for most all games. I hope this is something that updates over xbox live can take 
 care of. The cars in the game look great and I like how you can see the whole map when you look 
 in any direction; nothing "loads" as you drive up on it. I guess thats just the power of next gen 
 working there. The controls on this game are awesome. I must say that this is the first game that 
 I "do NOT" think i could control better on a mouse and keyboard. I think they did a great job with 
 the driving and shooting. That is just a blast. Im sure everyone knows what the story line is by 
 now. But if you don't.... go watch a video cause im not retyping it. As far as the online play goes.... well 
 it could be fun... but that just was not the case for me. There are a few different modes in the 
 game to play on but no matter what one you pick the area in which you get to play in is small. 
 When this game was coming out and it said you could play on xbox live I could not wait. Mainly 
 because in my mind I was thinking I would be able to free roam the whole city as im sure so did 
 many others. But im sure that if you have enough friends online to play with im sure you could 
 figure something out to do thats fun but if your by yourself or with 3 or so other people.... just 
 forget it... cause it sucks! The different types of activities to do in this game are also fun to 
 play with. My favorite is drug running. It gives you the chance to shoot while the dealer drives 
 around. The car racing seems to be a little tuff to me, but maybe i just suck or havn't found a 
 fast enuff car. I wish you could shoot the other racers while you raced though.... kinda make it 
 a little easier. The sounds in the game are great. There are a about 10-15 radio stations in the 
 game and the music they play is good. I can't help but find myself tuneing into the rap station 
 more often than not. Maybe im getting into character. One unique feature about the radio is that 
 the local shops have commercials on them telling you about sales they will have going on so if 
 you go in time you can take advantage of that. Well i could keep babbling on about this game for 
 a while longer but I wanna get back to playing it. So all in all i would have to say get this game 
 just for the fact its a lot of fun on single player. If you looking for a multiplayer game to get 
 then this is so not the one for you. Also... I think this is the first review NOT to mention GTA! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta11
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row For Xbox 360.
  
  THE GOOD : Amazing Graphics, Amazing Fire And Explosion Effects, Amazing Customization, Good Storyline, 
 Fun Missions And The Ability To Do Basicly Anything You Couldn't In San Andreas.
  
  
  THE BAD : No Air Craft, No Boats, Not Enough Weapons, The Mobile Phone Feature Could Have Been 
 A Bit Better And So Could Of The MP3 Feature, Not Enough Minor Gangs.
  
  
  
  When I first heard of this game, I thought of it the same way I think of all GTA clones.... this 
 must be total CRAP. But then I started looking into the game, and reading some articles about it, 
 and it turned out that the game actually had potential. Because of this, I decided to purchase 
 it. That was the best game decision I have EVER made for my Xbox 360. First, let me say that this 
 game is an EXACT clone of GTA. The controls are the same, the interface is the same, EVERYTING 
 is just a carbon copy from GTA. But in addition, this game adds some awesome features, and fixes 
 almost all of GTA's problems.
  
  I will appluad that this game did multiplayer. Its the first of this genre to do so. And for the 
 most part it is pretty solid. But don't be expecting like I was, which was for thousands of people 
 to able to go into the city and cause total mayham with each other, because that isn't in there. 
 Instead, there are a bunch of semi-fun games in a bunch of terribly rendered stadiums. Don't get 
 me wrong, this multiplayer is very fun and will be addicting for a long while, but I think it could 
 have been done better. The optimatch system rocks though, it is much like Halo 2's macthmaking 
 system, choosing your teamates and opponets for you, based upon the level.
  
  Gameplay : This game picks up on every GTA feature (good or bad) , and makes it ROCK. They got rid 
 of taxi and police missions, and added a TON of awesome side activities such as insurance fraud, 
 where you must get hit by passing cars to earn a set amount of money, and you receive bonuses if 
 there are witnesses. There are also about 10 other activities, all which are extremely fun and 
 addicting. You will be able to complete this game rather quickly compared to GTA: SAs' missions, 
 however I prefer these missions quite a bit, they are a great mix of driving, killing, sneaking, 
 just like GTA's but better. And the aiming interface is EXCELLENT. It is great fun to try and get 
 all the acheivments (many of them are 10 or 20 points each, so there are TONS of them to get) . 
 Another problem solved from GTA is the money problem. In this game, money actialy means something... 
 and you don't lose it when you die (only a few hundred dollars) . Its hard to come by, and all guns 
 you use must be purchased (or taken off people you kill)
  
  Graphics : GTA wasn't known for awesome graphics, however this game not only beats GTA, but it 
 beats almost every other Xbox 360 game out there. Shadowing is in real time with great resolution 
 (you can even see the shadow of the spinners on your car spinning) , the cars reflect, the car damage 
 models are amazingly detailed, and the character models rock. The game pulls off a steady framerate. 
 Everything in the graphics department is perfect except some minor screen tearing, however it is 
 barley noticible. Sound : Of course this game stole the radio from GTA, and I must say, while all 
 the songs will be songs you have never heard before, many of them are great. Also, the talk radio 
 is hilarious, and the commercials are even better than GTA's. My complaint here is that the game 
 just uses the f-bomb way too much, and tries to add some nasty humor. For a while its funny, but 
 enough is enough.
  
  The sounds and music in Saints Row is a bit of give and take. One minute its pure brilliance and 
 another you're wondering where it went. When it's dead on its great. Guns sound beautiful (I'm 
 not crazy) , people chat up about the weirdest stuff, cars rev and purr, and the music is dead on. 
 One of the cooler aspects is when you're in a car with the radio on and exit the radio still plays 
 but is muffled since you're now out side the car. Plus you get that whole base bump when others 
 drive by you cranking the tunes. As for the dropped sound I've only noticed it once in a great 
 while and only for a split second, so I feel it's no real issue. Did I mention the gun sound effects 
 rock, cause they really do.
  
  I'd say overall impression you will get from this game is around a 9. Although it is huge, and 
 hugely fun, it is not quite perfect. It still has a FEW of GTA's flaws, and the nasty humor and 
 constant f-bombs will leave some disgusted. This game is really pushing it for an M rated game. 
 As for the partial nudity that is listed on the box, all that is is a ladies butt, nothing to hide 
 from your parents. I'd highly recommend that you purchase this game instead of rent... the multiplayer 
 will keep you going for a long time after you beat the campaign. And even if you decide not to 
 get this game, you should deeply cherish it, because trust me, Rockstar is going to learn 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 31, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  SR stands too much on GTA. I mean, lots of little things are the same, just different name. I'm 
 also kinda disappointed in the graphics. This is not what i excepted from a big Xbox 360 title 
 like this. but. the biggest disappointment is yet to come.
  
  the car controls. Well ok, this is no sim. Nor GTA is. But in GTA i actually feel like I am driving 
 a car. In SR.. I don't. In SR its like you're skating or something. The cars dont feel heavy at 
 all, they are just pillows to navigate around the streets.
  
  What's even more funny is the gun recoil/physics. In GTA is much more accurate, and fun. I mean, 
 in SR you can shoot someone from 2 miles with a handgun, not realistic, but not even funny - it 
 ruins the game for me.
  
  The story is alright. I don't like gangsta stuff, so I can't be objective here.
  
  The soundtrack 
 hurts my ears, but once again, it's only my subjective opinion.
  
  I say; rent it. If you like it, buy it. But there's a great chance you won't - don't be sad, 1 
 year from now and GTA is coming for every systems out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thornscar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible! The explosions and the physics alone make it beter then GTA! Atleast untill 
 GTA can catch up with the technology. But dont let this game pass you by. Pick it up now because 
 I want to see a sequel for it soon! Thanks. This game is soo incredible! The explosions and the 
 physics alone make it beter then GTA! Atleast untill GTA can catch up with the technology. But 
 dont let this game pass you by. Pick it up now because I want to see a sequel for it soon! Listen 
 up! Buy this game now! Pllease? PLease? Please? Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viktory2008
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is really strong, minus the heavy handed rip of the successful GTA format. The 
 rip is so blantant you'd think Rockstar could sue for damages. Initially, you may think you're 
 playing GTA as will anyone watching from a dulling distance. The game is fun, but it plays just 
 a litte too unrealistic at times. The fight scene's are cinematic and engaging but sometimes too 
 silly. Although that's a minor setback when you consider how engaging customizing your character 
 and building your persona can be. Fun Game. If you like GTA get it, and if you don't like GTA get 
 it.. you'll have fun... trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbadwolf86
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Here is my review..
  
  Storymode- Characters, the world.. the story and almost eveyrthing about it is amazing. Looks like 
 it could even be a action flick. 10/10
  
  Sound- Perfectly done.. The taunts from the padestrains are priceless and far exceed the GTA series. 
 The voice acting in the cutscenes are also very well done. 10/10
  
  Music- This is where the score drops.. nice Classical selection.. but uhhh the rock and metal music 
 blows. and it is exetremely annoying to hear on the radio. Though the rest of the music was ok. 
 The radio station DJs are done very well and I love the commercials. Also the MP3 player feature 
 is very very cool.. I hope to see this used in future games. 7/10
  
  Graphics- Some minor problems.. glitches here an dthere and sometimes the game slows down a bit 
 too much.
  
  Gameplay- Endless.. especially with downloadable content. You have to play the game to see what 
 I mean.. 10/10
  
  Controls- A bit frustrating while driving. The camera swings very easy with just a tap on the right 
 controller stick. 8/10
  
  LIVE Multiplay- Some minor issues like LAG will be fixed.. but I still love multiplay.. it's all 
 good fun. Making your own gang feature is perfect.. buying cothes is a pain at the moment.. they 
 are too expensive. You also meet ALLOT of friends quickly. But again multiplay is HIGHLY ADDICTIVE 
 and SURPERB. 10/10
  
  Final Word- BUY THIS GAME.. Don't believe the negative hype that the game is a GTA clone.. That 
 would make something like Unreal Tournament a clone of Quake or Duke Nukem. Or Silent Hill is a 
 clone of Resident Evil. The multiplay is the greatest part about the game.. so is the storymode.. 
 but the multiplay online is just all fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomgamer324
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best to come out this year. The sheer number of things to do and see is 
 astounding. People may put this down, saying its a "GTA knockoff," however they dont recognize 
 that any shooter, racing, or sport game is a knock off of the original game in each respective 
 genre. Now, time to break it down section by section.
  
  Gameplay: Simply astounding. A long single player campaign with a great story plot. Some fun side 
 missions are also in this game, my favorite being "Insurance Fraud." In this mode, you walk into 
 cars travelling and the ragdoll physics take over. The farther flying you go, the more money you 
 get. Even if the single player gets old (hasnt for me yet) there is always multiplayer to fall 
 back on. "Big Ass chains", "Deathmatch", and "Protect the Pimp", are a few things in which this 
 game has to offer multiplayer wise. You can even create your own gang and fight others online. 
 My only gripes with the gameplay can be very easy and that the AI, especially the police AI, can 
 be somewhat dumb. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Pretty darn good for a free roaming game of this size. There are some very impressive 
 draw distances and cool effects and lighting. The cutscenes look amazing and they are fun to watch. 
 Surely the graphics are not up to par on some other sbox 360 games, but being the type of game 
 it is, the graphics are good. 8/10
  
  Sound: Great sound! The car and gun sounds sound great. Nothing wrong with the voice acting either. 
 The radio stations sound really good but personally I just listen to my ipod in the backround (hard 
 to please music wise) . There are a lot of lines and phrases people will say when you walk up to 
 them, but they can get a little repetitive after a while. 8/10
  
  Value: Exploring and finding new things to do is a blast too. the world is very deep and entertaining. 
 i just discovered the art of derailing a train with pipe bombs! Stuff like that just keeps you 
 coming back for more. Also, the multiplayer will keep you playing long after the single player 
 fizzles out. 9/10
  
  Verdict: An amazing game that should not be missed by anyone who has an xbox 360. I havnt had this 
 much fun with a game since the GTA's or Oblivion. Go out and buy this game now! Hope to see you 
 online soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HammerMan333
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Plays this game sooooolo much. This is a huge improvment on GTA which is a hard thing to accomplish. 
 Graphics are great. Fighting is hilarious. Driving is crisp. Story is interesting. Just buy it, 
 stop hesitating. It's next gen GTA period stopped playing madden after its first week out, barf, 
 and now am going to play this for a long time, im super duper serial. The only complaint i have 
 is once in awhile a car by you will disspear. The online play isn't to great but who suspected 
 it to be? Online GTA will become fun when there is some massive free roam gang dealy, that would 
 be nutz. Buy it now
  
  5 best 360 games:
  Oblivion
  G. R. A. W.
  Saints Row
  Call of Duty 2
  FarCry (questionable) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zongoz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Even though it is similar to the GTA Series, Saints Row is great none the less. Right from the 
 first car you jack to the incredible detail you give your character you know right of the bat that 
 this is a great game.
  
  The graphics are pretty good, though the screen does freeze up from time to time. But the pyrotechnics 
 are amazing, the explosions look great.
  
  The Sound is also great. At night you here gunfire in the distance or car chases, and the soundtrack 
 is awsome.
  
  The Gameplay is really fun, and alot of the side missions are great, but they do get kind of boring 
 after you've done the same one a hundred times.
  
  Last but not least, the multiplayer. Multiplayer in Saints Row is great. My personal favorite modes 
 though are "Protect the Pimp" and the "blinged out ride" thing.
  
  Overall Saints Row is a great copy off of GTA. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottk29
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  The postives -
  
  Saints Row is an awesome game that has some of the most amazing graphics of any xbox 360 game out 
 to date. The gameplay is very smooth and easy to pick up and play. Fun missions that give you a 
 number of different types of scenarios.
  
  The negatives -
  
  Frame rate at times will get a little slow once you get more than four or five stars or when all 
 hell brakes loose (exothermic display of the physics of hell!) The missions pretty much only involve 
 driving or walking, You cant control helicopters or boats or even climb to high vantage points 
 to scope out unsuspecting targets.
  
  Other than that it is one of the best games on xbox 360! Buy it, worth the price of admission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrebuiltKiller
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by telling you that i think that the game is good but there is also some dislikes. What 
 i like about the game is that you get to freeplay all over the place, and also what i like is that 
 the missions are easy to pass and they are just like to go and get someone and take over territorys. Another 
 thing is that i like the way they let you rob the stores, i like the way that they made you steal 
 the box and take it to the pawn shop. What i dislike about the game is that you have to do the stupid 
 little activitys over and over again and also i don't like that they never make your character 
 talk but other than that the game is fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skatester57
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  GOOD
  This game is massive that is the first thing I gotta mention. You find yourself overwhelmed for 
 a while till you get the hang. Its got exceptional graphics, the lighting and shadows are amazing. 
 The physics on cars, objects, and dead bodies are amazing too. The game also has alot of destructability 
 for a game of its size. The custumization is also amazing you can have your charecter lookin anyway 
 imaginable. From haircuts to jewlrey to clothing. The cars have just amazing amounts of custamizable 
 parts, from rims to paint to body kits to hydros. You can almost rebiuld a car from the ground 
 up. The story is exelently acted and the amount of side missions is massive. Theres really no end. 
 The controls are perfectly nailed for this type of game. I have got to say its one of my favorites 
 this year it may be better than Oblivian.
  
  BAD
  Umm... theres not much to say here in my oppinion but for everyone else you may have problems such 
 as these. The game at some times has a slow frame rate. It is very similar to GTA I mean very very 
 similar. That may not be a bad thing though. It has a few glitches I notice but there minor. The 
 games good far outwieghs the bad.
  
  Overall
  If you got 60 bucks pick it up if you don't save up, you must own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keno004
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game isnt GTA so compairing it is very much unfair, with GTA rockstar created a Genre with 
 an Action, Adventure game that also incorporated Driving and RPG elements to the game What saints 
 row does it brings competition to genre GTA created, if you compair the games it seems that Volition 
 took elements that they liked about the games over the years and formed a game around that. The 
 voice acting is done well and yes the main character is silent but thats because you can customize 
 your character and one voice for the character would have sounded retarded for the mulitiude of 
 characters you can make. Thats one of the problems some people found with the last GTA since it 
 was all scripted and you had one character model to choose so it didnt feel like the character 
 was you, it wasnt as personal of an experiance as some would like. Personally the silent character 
 is a better choice in an open ended game because some of the responces that characters give might 
 not be a responce the user might have wanted the character to give thus making the game even more 
 impersonal. The game overall is very well done I mean leaps and bounds over games like Driv3r and 
 True Crime which both didnt do very well. The sound is also done very well from the music to the 
 Weapons and ingame sounds. The graphics are very nice for such an open game, the draw distance 
 is very deep as well and even thought he characters look kinda shiny at times it really adds more 
 to the whole balla concept once you get your character a little more fitted up. There are alot 
 of side missions to complement the story mission and this game should keep you busy for quite sometime.
 
  
  Multiplayer is REALLY REALLY fun so far, I played only 1 mode called protect the PIMP its kinda 
 like capture the flag but basicly you have 2 teams of 6 and on 1 team there is a pimp who has no 
 weapons (except a backhand) and 5 protectors and they have to kill all the hitmen on the other 
 team without the pimp getting killed and the pimp is actually controlled by a user so you dont 
 get some dumb AI doing stupid crap making you lose. There are like 6 other modes as well but I 
 didnt get into those yet. It does look like the multiplayer will keep me playing for a while after 
 I finish the game.
  
  If anything else this game will make rockstar have to make thier game amazing since they cant pull 
 an EA sports move and buy all the rights to the type of game so they dont have to make improvments 
 to thier games but I have faith that Rockstar will make GTA4 better than this but I am more than 
 happy to play this great game while I wait. I would recommend this game to anyone with a 360 for 
 2 main reasons, 1. Its a very good game 2. There aint much else on the 360 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artemis_D
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  At first glance, yes, this does look to be just another Grand Theft Auto clone. In many ways, that 
 turns most gamers off from the start. But those who actually decided to give Saints Row a fair 
 chance, may have actually received quite the surprise. The surprise? It's actually a very solid 
 game! There is actually more than enough packed into this wonderful title, to satisfy any Grand 
 Theft Auto fan. From crime, to cars, to all out shoot-outs and run ins with the law.
  
  Now, I'd actually like to start with the feature that really shines for me. I'm all about interactivity, 
 so the ability to completely customize your character from head-to-toe was a huge selling point 
 with me. Everything from eyebrows, to the clothes on your characters back , are all at your control. 
 And with a large selection of clothes to choose from, there is almost no limit to what you can 
 create. And don't worry if you're not too pleased with your characters apperance later in the game, 
 because you can actually change your apperance at any point during the game, through means of plastic 
 surgery (which I thought was wonderful) . Not only can you customize the apperance of your characters, 
 but there is also a fairly in-depth vehicle customization feature, that lets you change the apperance 
 of just about every vehicle you can find! These two features, alone, offered hours upon hours of 
 fun.
  
  Now, another huge selling point, for those who enjoy online gaming, is the fact that this game 
 actually offers a multiplayer mode, in the form of online play. While it's not exactly in the fashion 
 of a MMO game, it does offer a number of addictive party style games you can enjoy. While I've 
 not experienced this mode, myself, a marjority of the people I have spoken to, seem to agree that 
 it's loads of fun. The only noted problem I've heard, is the fact that the servers are a wee bit 
 slow, in these early stages, and some cant even seem to connect at all at times. But, as I stated, 
 it's still very early. Server problems can and, most likely, will be fixed. There has also been 
 the mention of downloadable content, in the future, but thus far none has been offered.
  
  One thing you'll probably notice from the start, are the graphics. Everything from character designs, 
 vehicle details, explosions and the enviroment around you. Saints Row, in my opinion, is a very 
 beautiful game. I actually had a blast, just setting up various explosions, and watching the whole 
 place go up in flames! Also, more on the technical side, the sound along with with the explosions, 
 in superb. Now, I don't have a big fancy sound system, but the audio seems to sound great on my 
 little speakers Zenith television speakers. Along with the great audio quality, comes a nice bangin' 
 little soundtrack with it's various radio stations. Almost every genre of music is covered on the 
 games various radio stations, so there should be no problem finding something for you. And if you 
 still find that to be an issue, there is always that wonderful feature of custom soundtracks.
 
  
  Gameplay is also a plus with this game. Anyone who has played a Grand Theft Auto, should have NO 
 trouble at all, adapting to this game, at all. Before the game was ever released, I noticed a lot 
 of concerns about the games lack of auto aim. Now, while this may sound like a problem, this actually 
 works out in the games favor. Thus far gunning down rival gangs, and police officers, has not been 
 a problem at all. In fact, I've had an extremely easy time taking out enemies, as it's much easier 
 to pull off headshots. It's also MUCH easier to fire shots from behind the wheel of a vehicle, 
 so at some points, you may never even have to leave your car. Also, as far as gameplay, there is 
 never a shortage of things to do in this game. As I mentioned, it offers an amazing level of customization 
 to our characters and vehicles. Also, there are also a great number of activities to do, along 
 with the games main missions. Not only that, but the activities are actually fun! Remember all 
 the mayhem you used to love to cause in Grand Theft Auto? Now it's all a part of the game, itself! 
 All in all, Saints Row is a must, for anyone who considers themselves a fan of the genre. Many 
 games have tried to do what Saints Row has done, and failed. If you're looking for a wonderful 
 game, that stands up just fine on its own; or maybe even just trying to find something to hold 
 you over until the release of Grand Theft Auto 4, look no further than Saints Row. It's one giant 
 step in the right direction for next gen modern action adventure gaming, and a can't miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbeen
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Is this a copy of the GTA series (exspecialy San Andreas) , Yes it is. But the good news is if you 
 liked GTA SA then you will like this. This game takes many of the ideas offered up in SA but puts 
 them together into a more consise and easy to follow story. Lets face it, the best part of SA was 
 the gang warfare, gaining turf and respect from the fellow gangs, gaining influance in the city 
 and doing crimes with you're hommies. Then all at once you are droped into the country side and 
 the story goes back to the old fashion GTA "meet person, do mission and repeate". However Saints 
 Row takes what SA started and what SA did best and stuck too it. No more traversing miles of empty 
 contry side just to get to you're next mission, no more pointless missions into uncharted areas 
 to as a exscuse to make you go there. Saints Row sticks to what it is, a game about gangs and respect. 
 GTA SA was big for the sake of being big and dont exspect SR to try to rivle SA in shear sqare 
 miles but SR packs just as much to do in a smaller area without all the pointless driving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanwolves999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Okay everyone. I want to start off by saying that obviously this game is an exact copy of GTA, 
 but before instanly judging the game just ask youself... was GTA a good game? Saints Row undenyable 
 offers much more than GTA in terms of gameplay, graphics, and general value. As far as the gameplay 
 is concerned they do a great job of implimenting the missions. Personally I like it better than 
 GTA because there is a cutscene for every little mission you do to earn respect. In GTA sometimes 
 you would just get a mission and no cutscene.... a lot of people like that, but that is very poor 
 imersion in the game. Saints Row is always throwing you into the story line which makes it that 
 much more enjoyable. Honestly, that is why we play games people... it's all about the storyline. 
 The graphics of Saints Row are incredible, but at the same time the visuals are kind of sneaky. 
 If you just look at them for face value you start to think that the graphics are bland and not 
 that great, but if you look closely and really focus on what you are looking at you can see that 
 the graphics really are the best to date for the 360. To be honest, this game didn't get 9's because 
 it was judged before it came out. It is too bad that people always compare the game to GTA and 
 instantly consider it a direct copy. It will be interesting to see what the next GTA will be like..... because 
 seriously people.... GTA has not evolved that much from I-III except for obviously the graphics. 
 It isn't like GTA is going to revolutionize the gameplay again. I actually can't wait for the review 
 of the next GTA because I have a feeling people are going to be disappointed. There is no question 
 that Saints Row is much better overall and as far as I'm concerned GTA will have to copy Saints 
 Row to make the gameplay any different. Maybe we should rereview Saints Row once the new GTA comes 
 out... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_LoverTDL
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 31, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  All I need to say here, is WOW! This game packs punches left and right with a few to kicks to mention. 
 The carnage and mayhem too be had in this badass title is unrivaled by any GTA game too date. On 
 another note, the fact that you can escort hos, become a pimp, and hijack cartel trucks with modified 
 rides, is too good too be true. I don't think I have had this much fun destroying things, since 
 GTA 3, and believe it or not, this title will rock your socks off, and send poor lil' GTA, spinning 
 down the spiral of watery damnation. THQ, you guys have been a fav of mine since Red Faction, keep 
 up the incredible work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazaro007
Rating: 6.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Well to start of the game was shallow in alot of parts. Just driving around, I didnt feel the excitement 
 of getting chased by cops. So far the story missions are annoying, cause i just get told what to 
 do. I dont disagree and it seems that the character just kisses ass becuz his death (he dont say 
 a word) . Well the online play seems terrible. Some good parts i wont lie. But the dissapearing 
 cars and sudden deaths , o and that your multiplayer online game doesnt let you roam freely in 
 the city is also a drag. Those where things i should have heard before buying it. It will dissapoint 
 anybody whose looking for a good freelance game Rent it ... Im stuck with it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GmeMaster500
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game on the xbox 360 hands down. It feels a lot like gta but this game has a lot 
 better story mode. You must earn respect enough respect from your gang to start new missions. The 
 good news about this is that earning respect is fun. The activites are not boring at all like I 
 expected the activites consist of hi jacking, insurance fraud and many others. If you really dont 
 want to do these activites you could also get into a car with two people in it and take the passenger 
 hostage while trying to out run the cops. The hostage activites I believe are the easist way of 
 geting respect. I also like how you can go into the back of liquor and gun shops and try and open 
 there safes but be careful if your thumb slips you got 2 stars on you. The story mode is deep. 
 The whole story mode is to have your gang the 3rd street saints to own the city of still water. 
 This is the only game I played where the cops will go after other people and not just for you. 
 For instance I ran into the middle of street in front of a car and the car hit me and knocked me 
 over. There was a cop there and he grabed the lady out of her car and started beating her. Or if 
 the cop sees a gang doing wrong the lights on the car will turn on and then all hell breaks loose 
 while there is a shootout in the middle of the street. This game also has great online play all 
 the game modes are fun, but heres the catch you must have a lot of people playing the game for 
 any of the game modes to be fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdhounshell
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Your part of a game Known as 3rd street Saints time to Strap a Gat and ride First off you start 
 out by Creating the charicter of your Choise then the Mayhem Insues from there these things range 
 from Earning respect to do missions from Doing Side Quests to Just over all Causeing Chaios and 
 Harassing the pedestrians of Saints row And what i mean by Harassing the Peds is Kicking there 
 walker from out under them and over all Just Kicking Booty and having fun with the genral Mayhem 
 the Cars Handle really well as you might expect this game offers a Wide Varity of Depth it will 
 keep you coming back for along time Also this game offers downloable Content wich is a Nice change 
 of pace so you will prolly see bikes in the near future possbly other things they didnt have time 
 to get to Anyways Anyone who Loves Open world free games should not hesatate to go out and buy 
 this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Upon first playing Saints Row, one cannot help but compare the game to the Grand Theft Auto series. 
 There is so much direct influence apparent here from our beloved criminal free-roamer, and in the 
 absence of any recent GTA update, Saints Row immediately feels like your old couch with new upholstery. 
 But this fresh faced young gun is here to stay, because it has set it's own standard by improving 
 upon San Andreas in many areas.
  
  Remember when Vice City's improvements made you consider barely going back to play GTA III? And 
 then upon playing San Andreas, how quickly Vice City went back on the shelf and stayed there? Saints 
 Row carries on this tradition. It's improvements over the old guard are so pleasant, you'll only 
 ever play GTA: SA again out of nostalgia. Much has been made of the lack of motorbikes, boats, and 
 air vehicles, and while these did add an excellent level of longevity to San Andreas, this is possibly 
 Saints Row's only shortcoming.
  
  Saints Row makes sure to first cover all the bases that made GTA the brilliant series that it is 
 (well designed free roaming city, plenty of cars, radio stations, sense of humour, violence, language, 
 sexual references, gang warfare, and a whole heap of delicious crime) , then steps up and proves 
 it has a few things the big boys don't. Firstly, you can perfectly construct your character with 
 a scary amount of facial detail. While the finer points of detail will be all but invisible in-game, 
 there's plenty of shots of your thug's mug in the various cut scenes throughout the story mode. 
 It's unfortunate though that the fairer sex is unselectable, strange considering your character 
 never speaks, and that there are plenty of female gang members in the game.
  
  Another obvious improvement is the use of the right stick to target manually. This may sound difficult 
 to the GTA hardened, but it's fluid, instinctive, and available on foot or in-car, with full 360 
 degree aim whilst driving. It can be difficult to concentrate on the road while attempting a head 
 shot on the driver behind you, but imagine such an action is not easy in the real world either. 
 The cars drive and handle much better, and handbrake turns at speed are a breeze without ever feeling 
 too "arcadey". The map screen is much, much easier on the eye, and clearer to read, and features 
 an extremely handy waypoint marker, which lights the most obvious (though not always quickest) 
 path to your destination on your map. Very helpful when first finding your way around the city 
 of Stillwater.
  
  One thing I didn't like about GTA: SA was the system of changing clothes. CJ had to disappear into 
 his walk in closet, change into new clothes, walk out again, then you decided if you wanted to 
 wear them, if not, then he walked into his closet again, repeat, repeat, repeat. In Saints Row, 
 you simply flick over the outfits and immediately see what they look like on your character. Simple, 
 but so effective. You can also store 160 cars into your bottomless garage. Park it, the car disappears. 
 When you want to retrieve it, you can choose it from an extensive list of every car you have stored. 
 Not exactly realistic, but much more fun.
  
  The plot is standard gangster-big-dumb-fun. Keith David (Spawn animated series) has a great voice, 
 in fact the voice acting's quite good all round. The character of Johnny is a twerp though, and 
 there's plenty of cringe worthy chunks of script. But like most games, the audience has come for 
 the action, and Saints Row serves it up in spades.
  
  All these improvements, as well as great graphics and the inclusion of multiplayer modes make Saints 
 Row a necessary purchase, and a worthy successor to the Grand Theft Auto games we've loved so much. 
 And with the release of GTA IV still some time away, why wait? Saints Row has everything you're 
 looking for in an action free roamer, and is one of the best games on the 360.
  
  (Multiplayer unpreviewed)
  
  Want better quality reviews? Join the Hall Of The Scribes and 
 make a difference! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthLad
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row is the one game that is better than any other GTA wannabe. The graphics on everything 
 are nice, especially when it's storming at night, the lights on buildings are nice and blurry. 
 The game's weather effects are amazing. There are tons of cars and trucks to choose from, including 
 garbage trucks, fuel trucks, trucks with those car carrying attachments, and every type of car 
 you can think of. The music isn't really that good, i think there's 11 radio stations and about 
 4 of them aren't rap. So if you do like rap you should really like the radio. Multiplayer is alright 
 but it's very laggy, but you can costumize your character anyway you want. So this game feels part 
 like Driver3 (in a good way) and part like GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timmy343
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  This game was a big surprise to me. At first the demo seemed to get boring and repetative, but 
 it barely scratches the surface of the things you can do in this game. The car customization makes 
 the game a hell of a lot more fun, and the side missions also add to the value. The biggest surprise 
 i got from this game was the multiplayer. It has a bunch of gametypes that are all fun, my personal 
 favorite is blinged out ride. The community is great, and the people who play this game actually 
 talk alot more then other games. The gang also adds to the level of fun. the graffics are good, 
 nothing amazing. the enviroment is huge, but it would be better to have boats planes or motorcycles. 
 The missions are exciting and in depth, and the character customization is great. some bad things 
 are the draw in that will occur, and the occasional glitches which never got in my of the game. 
 The music is awsome and has everything from rap to rock and thensome. So far the game is showing 
 great value and should be worth a purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccer_halo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  i seen the trailer and its the best wen i get 360 inm getting that game everyone says its a good 
 game and it does look good its like a copy of grand thieft autos, lol and the clothes look alot 
 better and more realistic and i hope the missions are better lol sum review lol i guess u can say 
 im reviewing the demo and the trailer but this games gunna be good lol this game is the real deal 
 and im dying to get it lol but first i have to get 360 lol, and wen i do im gunna get it. its gunna 
 br worth it and im excited lol and i have a feelin im gunna be addicted to it cause this games 
 the real deal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 5, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  When GTA 3 first came out there was nothing like it. And Saint Row while it's a blantent near copy 
 of GTA, there are a few thing that saints row does better. First off this looks like a next gen 
 game. I love how detailed the graphic are. And when a car blows up it is an awesome sight to behold. 
 I love the all gang fights. The cops aren't as tough as they are in gta. well who give a **** about 
 that. The one thing that i love is the GPS system, and it's about time. overall this is a must 
 buy for any GTA fan. and there's online? sounds too good to be true. This game is the hardest mother****er 
 on the set. The only gripe is the soundtrack. it truly sucks donkey balls. but i don't listen to 
 it . Instead I have a slayer playlist and music about death and destruction truly fits a game about 
 death and destruction. in other words it is very fun to bust caps in all kinds of mark ass busters. 
 I also take pleasure in creeping up on fools a jacking their ride, so I can provide my baby's mama 
 with a new gangta spinners. na mean? Here's how I rate this bad mofo. It is all dat and a bag of 
 chips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  GTA was fun game to play (sometimes not all the time) then you come across Saints Row which isn't 
 fun sometimes its fun all the time! The game starts off with highly customizable charecter customization 
 that lets you choose what you want your charecter to be like from every angle as in it lets you 
 customize him from what color his eyes are going to be to being fat or with muscles. As you progress 
 through the game you get into gang battles, you get some fun challeges and you'll meet some really 
 odd people (Trust me I met an old lady who dressed like a striper! Now thats wack!) The only problems 
 I encountered was online. In one of the game modes called Protect Tha Pimp one of your players is 
 so called Tha Pimp and the rest of your team has to protect them from the other team a. k. a. The 
 Hitmen what was the problem? Well sometimes you'll find yourself with such a big place to search 
 with such little time to do it in! Overall this game wont take you one day to complete it and once 
 you do complete it you'll want to do it again and relive the moments, it wont take you one week 
 it will take you a great amount of time to complete it in and thats just the way I like it! Thats 
 why I give Saints Row 9.7 blown up cars out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bzowk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  After downloading the demo vi xbox live, I was not impressed. The ratings from this and other sites 
 made my desicion to buy. I love the feature that shows the quickest route to the target, the dialogue 
 (reminds me of a Samual L Jackson movie, and the many cutscenes are good. The gameplay could have 
 been better graphics. I understand that it was based (obviously) on GTA, but the 360 must have 
 more potential. On another note, I was only 6% into the gameplay after 2 hours assuming that it 
 gets harder. I am a sports 1st game buyer, but this one is worth it if any other $60 game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mayham88
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I have played GTA since the day it has come out and even though this is not GTA, iT definatly matches 
 up to it. What can I say, its basically the same game with a differant title. If your debating 
 whether or not to get this game all you have to ask yourself is, Do I like GTA series? If the answer 
 is yes, then you should buy this game. The graphics in this game are very good. IT looks like 360 
 graphics, lets just say. The cut videos are good and well done. The gamplay is also good in this 
 game. About the same as GTA. The only down side to this game is the camera. ITs hard as your running 
 to keep looking in the direction you want to look. The camera doesnt move and show the way your 
 body is facing, you have to do it yourself, so that is kind of a pain.
  
  All I have to say is, this is a good game, Whether you liked GTA will answer your question whether 
 or not to get it. If you dont like GTA and your thinking this will be for you, then, you better 
 rent it first. That way you know for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stealth360snipa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It's fun to play. Cars are great. Sound is good cause you can listen to the 
 radio in your car and carry around and MP3 player. Custimization is immersive and has lots of options. 
 Its fun to blow up cars and gas stations and run over people and rob stores. A must buy. a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a aa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xxann
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row is a good game while waiting for GTA IV . I have edited my review because it just is 
 not as fun as GTA. There are some things they have thats better than GTA, car customization, Online 
 Multiplayer, Robbing Stores, Graphics, Physics, and Insurance Fraud (i love insurance fraud) . I 
 would have added character customization, but if you don't make the main character in the game 
 a fixed character it makes it much harder to make a good story (The elder scrolls is one of the 
 few exceptions to this rule) . If are thinking of buying it i would just wait a few months for GTA 
 IV which will be much better than saints row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpislife
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot staff are clearly have a bias for Grand Theft Auto. The graphics are better than ANY other 
 game in the genre. The lighting and the clarity is spectacular, not to mention the NO loading times 
 ever!!!. You get access to the whole map from the very begining, so you don't have to do missions 
 unless you want to. Honestly, no matter which system you like better, this is a reason to own an 
 Xbox 360 even if you hate microsoft or don't like the system. The game is truly entertaining. Saint's 
 Row is everything GTA is, and should have been!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebiddybop
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 30, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  If you've played GTA then this game will look familiar. This game reminds me alot of GTA III. No 
 motorcycles, bicycles, airplanes, boats, or parachutes. the only thing GTA III has up on Saints 
 Row is that GTA III atleast had a Do-do plane. GAMEPLAY:
  The game plays ALOT like GTA. A difference that you'll notice is that there is no auto-lock on, 
 but don't fret... this only makes the game more challenging = fun. The map has a little trail you 
 can follow when you set a maker on the map. I can't really think of much else thats different... 
 one bad thing is sometimes randomly a car will dissapear.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  the graphics are great but some of the characters textures (especially on the skin) arent all there. 
 When you get a tattoo you will see what I'm talking about. It looks like the polygons want to jump 
 out of your character. The cars however look great, nice paint jobs and shine. ... the rain looks 
 great too.
  
  SOUND:
  despite me hating every station but classical in the game ... and maybe a few electronica songs... 
 I will still give this game a non-biased review. the sound is great, alot of music stations to 
 choose from as well as custom playlist. only downside is when you select a custom playlist, the 
 music still plays even when you leave a vehicle. All the weapons and gun sounds are there and the 
 thunder during a rain storm is personally my favorite touch. VALUE:
  a good solid single player experience that lets you customize your characters and vehicles will 
 keep you busy for quite some time. ... and being multiplayer adds a whole bunch of play time as 
 well. Personally I think this game is a must buy ... atleast til GTA4 comes out. Saints Row has 
 alot of things that the GTA series never had. Insurance fraud, create-a-player, muliplayer and 
 a few other things. theres not much to say. If you've played GTA and loved it then theres no reason 
 why you shouldnt love Saints Row as well. And if your a "fanboy" or whatever you call it, then 
 your just cutting yourself short of a great experience. It's like saying the Dallas Mavericks suck 
 just because your a Miami Heat fan. Sure the Mavericks didnt win the championship, but they did 
 alot of things right to get there, just like Saints Row, ... sure it may be great now and will 
 probly totally get blown away when GTA 4 hits, but for now it's the best thing we have so enjoy 
 it... why would you spend so much money on your 360 if your only going to limit yourself by the 
 game makers brand?
  
  Joseph. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman_919
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 30, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is your basic GTA game, complete missions, Steal cars, Kill gang members etc. One really 
 good improvement from the previous GTa style games are that any vehicle you put in you save house 
 is there until you remove it from your Garage. But if you take it out to drive and it gets blown 
 up, you just have to pay a small fee to get it back in your garage. Second you can fit as many 
 cars as you want in a garage and you can they will apear in any of your garages. One semi-flaw 
 is that you have to play activities to earn respect so you can play a mission, which can be really 
 anoyning at times. One really cool feature is when it rains, you can see lighting, which is really 
 cool at first the it gets anoying. THe map is completely unlock from the start of the game so you 
 don't have to complete so many missions to explore the entire map. almost ever car in the game 
 can be customized. Now to the multiplayer, the multiplayer is really fun and has many a good veriaty 
 of games. THe only draw back is that the online lags alot but that will most likely be fix after 
 the game has been out for a while. In the Long run this is a very good and fun GTA style game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qwerty212
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Im happy to see that s. r. didn't get something like a 6.7 or something just cuz it was a GTA clone. 
 But i think it deserved a higher rating. the missions are fun, the gun controlls are great, the 
 'activities' are hilarious and the game is all around fun. The thing that bugs me most is how it 
 was said 'theres only cars, no bikes or planes. So what? So now just because GTA Vice City added 
 4 bikes every game needs bikes to be good? The variety of cars is more than enough, the rag doll 
 physics make the game absolutley hilarious, ramming a pedestrian at full speed and then they hit 
 a street poll lol. Also the voice acting is great.... although the only voice i recognized was 
 tanya, Meg from Family Guy. And Jhonny is also quite amusing. This is an incredible game and i 
 feel it deserved a higher score and it did a great job trying to make a GTA style game for the 
 xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  I think the most important thing to get into the beginning of any discussion of Saint's Row is 
 that it shouldn't be compared to GTA. Well, that's not quite true. While it's true that if you 
 compared it to GTA: SA it would be a less impressive game, I don't know that the same would be said 
 of the earlier two games. I think in that company, Saints Row would stand as a game worthy of their 
 company.
  
  The fact is that Saints Row is both very unlike GTA and very much like the series. However, it's 
 alike in the way that many modern FPS' use a similar kind of health/armour meter, or RTS' have 
 borrowed from the polish of Warcraft. It's not so much imitation as simply adopting standards that 
 have been set by the greats. That said, Saints Row is a fun game, that may not set those same standards 
 certainly stands up to them.
  
  Now that the obligitory "it's not a ripoff" is out of the way, lets briefly examine what Saints 
 Row is all about. Gangbanging. Explosions. Turf. Power. Guns. Gangbanging. Did I mention Gangbanging? 
 In a lot of ways the explosive action reminds me of Mercenaries, but the driving and world (and 
 yes, the map) is familiar as being of the GTA theme. The driving is the kind of over-the-top fun 
 you'd expect and demand from this kind of game, but it works and the controls are tight enough. 
 The camera works well and the visuals really are something else. Say what you want, GTA never has 
 looked this good by half. Not only is Saints Row a good looking bit of gaming, it really REALLY 
 encourages individuality. You have a level of character customization (appearance) on a par with 
 City of Heroes (almost) and that's shockingly satisfying long after the opening hours of the game. 
 That's YOUR goon out there knocking heads and shooting... everything. The plastic Surgeon option 
 is a little "magic wand" but what the hell, it's a game.
  
  It's a bit sad that the audio isn't exactly amazing, but it's not bad either. The things that count 
 are done well, such as weapon and environment sounds. the voicing is decent, but it's... no gta. 
 Ok, so I broke my own rule, but you'll all be thinking it so I might as well say it. Still, unless 
 you're that person who sits around waiting on 3 year dev cycles with religious fervour, it's not 
 going to bother you once you're 2 minutes into the game.
  
  Another highpoint of Saints Row is the AI. It doesn't stink! I realize that's not something to 
 be touted as a "high point" but after so many games where my "homies" or "squadmates" or god help 
 me "that **** I'm supposed to keep safe for 5 minutes" can't even walk a straight line. When you're 
 uh, banging with your homies, the AI actually contributes to the fight, and NEVER gets in the way. 
 As for the enemies, they're good, but as with so many games of the last 6-10 years if you're an 
 experienced gamer, or god help you a power gamer (like me) , you'll be ready for all comers.
  
  The last point I'd like to cover, because it IS a selling point is just this: the explosions 
 are GREAT. It's hard to stand out in that regard in the modern gaming world, but even the casual 
 kabooms are worth it here, and god there are a lot of them. I can't imagine anyone who comes to 
 saints row not having fun unless they open the package and expect C. J. or Vinny to be in there. 
 Barring that, give it a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiberiusJones
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  I think it's inevitable but somewhat unfair to judge Saint's Row strictly against GTA. With GTA, 
 Rockstar didn't just create a game, they created a new genre of game. And within that genre, there 
 have already been several pretenders. While Saint's Row is certainly derivative of GTA, it is definitely 
 NOT a pretender. In many respects, it is far superior to GTA. In other ways, it has room to reach 
 higher in a sequel. And be assured, there will be a sequel.
  
  The Bad
  
  You know a game is good when the only bad you can really point out is pretty much nitpicking at 
 some small stuff. There are some framerate issues, but only during frenetic firefights or mad chases 
 when a whole lot is going on on screen at once. Even then, the framerate is MUCH better than any 
 GTA game. It's true, there are no vehicles other than cars. Sorry, you're not going boating or 
 bike riding or flying a plane. However, you quickly forget about that when you start to realize 
 just how uniquely you can customize the dozens of cars you'll steal or buy throughout the game. 
 GTA never did that.
  
  The Good
  
  Just about everything else. The graphics are truly Next-Gen. Beautiful textures and lighting make 
 it a pleasure to meander through the streets of Stilwater on foot or behind the wheel. The day/night 
 cycles are rich with little details like streets lights flickering to life at dusk and amazing 
 sunrises and sunsets. More than once, I have just stopped to watch the sun rise over Stilwater. 
 Character creation is much more satisfying than that of GTA. If you want to put yourself in the 
 game, you can do it. You can even take your alter-ego online to battle with other people. Customization 
 goes much further with a plethora of tatooes, piercings and clothes also available.
  
  Blowing up stuff never looked so good. Wait until the first time you use the rocket launcher to 
 blow up a carload of rival gang-members. I dare you not to giggle as tires, bumpers, doors and 
 bits go blasting in all directions while the vehicle's burning, smoking frame goes spiraling through 
 the air.
  
  This game is definitely not for kids, and it more than earns it M rating. Driving the "Escort" 
 around while she 'works' for her celebnrity clients was a definite highlight. Without spoiling 
 the surprises, there are many, "why didn't someone think of that sooner" moments, as well as times 
 throughout the game that the small details you notice will put a smile on your face.
  
  In the end Saint's Row is a great game that will give you anywhere from 30-100+ hours of fun, depending 
 on how much of the game you want to complete.
  
  And for all you GTA fans (me included) Rockstar now has some competition, which can only mean better 
 GTA games down the line. What could possibly be wrong with that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  I hate to call it a GTA clone but it is. This game would not exist if GTA hadn't been released. 
 But that said, at least its a good GTA clone. And much better than any GTA game out. The graphics, 
 sound, interactivity, weapons, items and everything else just feel much more satisfying than any 
 GTA game. Sound is above average (compared to GTA's mediocre sound) , with great voice acting for 
 even the pedestrians, who yell at you when you threaten them or almost run them over. The rest 
 of the sounds are all standard bangs and booms and they get the job done. The radio shows off some 
 great music and some pretty funny talk shows, however GTA has more diversity in its radio stations. 
 Graphics are great, but with many little flaws. There is an annoying draw in and pop up of distant 
 buildings/cars, something that was excusable on an ancient PS2, but not at all excusable on the 
 360. Character models are so-so, they look alright, but they're pretty polygonish for a nextgen 
 game. All the cars and city details, however, look great. And thats really the more important of 
 the graphics. Gameplay is straightfoward. There's a huge city to explore, but all the missions 
 you encounter all boil down to drive and shoot, with few exceptions. The city is big, but as with 
 GTA, it just feels dissapointing to drive around. Exploration isn't really rewarded, which made 
 me feel like just going straight through the storyline instead of just driving around. The cops 
 will chase you only if you assault, kill, or steal/hit another car. For a game that tries to be 
 more than GTA, it would have been nice to see cops chase you for speeding, running red lights, 
 driving off the road etc. Saints Row is a shot at GTA, and it a definate step over GTA in every 
 way. It's not perfect either, but it's close enough to make a decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeklay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  At first I was very skeptical of this game and had no intention of even renting it. After all, 
 I feel you shoudl reward original ideas (and don't start with Doom started FPS and Madden started 
 all football...) Anyways, I though GTA3 was great, Vice City sucked and San Andreas was the best 
 game yet. With Saints Row they not only ripoff GTASA, but they do it in such an obvious way, it 
 is kind of endearing. I mean they could have made it used something other than stars for cop wanted 
 level (maybe badges?) and something other than respect (maybe street cred?) , but since they don't 
 you kind of have to respect that they know what they are doing and it makes the game great.
  
  The mini missions are fun, the shooting is better and there are some small details that are 
 cool. When you go in reverse your dude turns around, when you clip a car going fast, the person 
 will fly through the front windshield. Little details that make this tight.
  
  THe custom audio player is nice and actually streams my playlists of my UPNP device without a flaw.
 
  
  If you like Wolfmother, but won't pick this game up because it is a ripoff, you are a clueless 
 douche and should check out Zeppelin, Sabbath and ELO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix73nj
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row is a solid offering. It succeeds as a game in being a lot of fun to play (which really 
 is the point isnt it..) to boot it has an engaging story and a highly polished finish. While the 
 game play content is less than cutting edge by a large margin, what Saint's Row does do, it does 
 better than any GTA style game yet produced. Saint's Row's aiming and character control's absolutely 
 burry Rock Star's. While Rock Star may have more mini-games, a larger variety of vehicle types, 
 better in game media (actors, music and story) and a larger world in general. Saint's Row's tight 
 controls make it a better "game" in the old school sense of video game Honestly, all the mini 
 games in the world couldn't draw me back to another clunky GTA character control scheme (I hope 
 they do fix it) . Fighting controls isn't fun, cappin bangers is ... In Saint's Row my character 
 shoots where I tell him (for better or worse) , he jumps when I tell him, he runs when I tell him, 
 he punches etc... and Im nicely unaware of the control pad, GTA never got character control that 
 good.
  
  As for graphics well Saint's Row is on the 360... nough said. Mind Blowing, Edge of your seat w-t-f 
 was that explosions and insane detail
  
  As for story, plot, acting and general media... it's great as are almost all the 360 games I've 
 personally played. As a whole the 360 platform has delivered great acting, and I've been very pleased. 
 While there may not be as much star power behind Saint's Row there are definitely some heavy hitters 
 in there and all of the performances are strong, for both acting and music... Janes Addiction Comming 
 Down the Mountain for the win!
  
  As for downside of Saint's Row... I was insanely psyched to have a multiplayer GTA experience... 
 Im still waiting... maybe APB... maybe GTAIV
  
  What Saint's Row delivers are some "non GTA flavored" multiplayer modes
  that really don't give 
 you the feeling of fighting other players in a GTA city. The game modes could have been fun, derivatives 
 of other standard multiplayer, except for the other multiplayer let down... the lag... Basically 
 the game modes are ehhh... the "multiplayer" isn't up to being a full GTA multiplayer mode and 
 the lag makes the entire subject of multiplayer pointless anyway as what is there is currently 
 unplayable. Hopefully there are some fast patches on the way, but at this time  multiplayer is
 
  shot out.
  
  By far the most unforgivable trend in console gaming continues, as Saint's Row doesn't have a split 
 screen co-op mode... For once it'd be nice to play through an X360 game "with" my girlfriend... 
 but no... I'll keep waiting for that day sometime in the year 2000, and playing balders gate and 
 gauntlet for the n-millionth time.
  
  In conclusion... Saint's Rows "game play" makes it a ton of solo fun... even though almost everything 
 else was done better by the GTA series... IMHO video games need to be "fun" first and great media 
 push platforms second... if I wanted to watch a great crime movie... I have Reservoir Dogs on Dvd... 
 and if I feel like playing a zillion interesting mini-games I can still boot up GTA and death struggle 
 with my controller. If I want to have fun
  in a GTA style "game" right now Im reachin for Saint's Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  Saints Row, while an great game that will give you hours upon hours of top notch fun, is not quite 
 as vast as it's big brother GTA: San Andreas. But that's OK. What Saints Row does have is better 
 graphics (by far) , a far superior system of gameplay mechanics like manual aiming and the driving 
 controls, and amazing surround sound. Another key improvement over GTA is that the missions are 
 all about driving fast and using heavy firepower. You will not find all the little tedious chores 
 that GTA shoved down your throat to add hours of stale gameplay. In Saints Row, just about every 
 single mission is fun and action packed. The character creation tool at the beginning is great 
 and what could be more fun than running around jacking cars as Chuck Norris, Samuel L. Jackson, 
 or even shooting people in the face with a shotgun as Dick Cheney? The game also sports online 
 (which as of the launch window is pretty buggy but Volition is working on a patch according to 
 their website) and some pretty fun co-op play. The framerate almost always stays around a steady 
 30fps and the only real complaint is that the game, especially indoors, suffer from some graphical 
 screeen tearing. But nothing to the degree of hurting the gameplay.
  
  So if you like GTA games and enjoy open ended mayhem, Saints Row is one of the best games you can 
 get for your money. If this game was made by Rockstar, I'm willing to bet most sites wouldn't have 
 deducted points for being derivative and gave the game between an 8.8 to a 9.2
  
  This is really a well structured and great controlling sandbox game, the only game of it's type 
 that controls better than GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  I think the demo is full of action and i just tried the demo and i played it again and again and 
 i dont think this game is bad. You can also customise your character the clothes and your car that 
 you want and its cool but it look allot like grand theft auto and i think they copied gta i could 
 give a higher score but no. the graphics are not that good i played that demo on not a hd tv but 
 normal and i saw that when i played PGR3 the graphic were better. i tough when i read saints row 
 i tough the game was a different game but when i played it i was surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Simply put Saints Row as the future competition for GTA, just like 2k was for Madden. For most 
 people it will be hard to swallow, but for people who appreciate developers hard effort, it's going 
 to be great. It's true, Saints Row is a carbon copy of GTA, but done right. You see, Saints Row 
 doesn't need boats, motorcycles, or stupid parachuting to be fun, cause it's 10 times more enjoyable 
 than any GTA games that I've ever played . Everyone's familiar with the story, but what stands 
 out is how you have to earn respect to continue. No more rushing through record time to brag how 
 fast you finished the game, no, this time you have to earn the preceding missions and it's done 
 through activities, and let me tell these are way more enjoyable than GTA. From the first Snatch 
 assignments all the way to hitman jobs, not to mention the other activities, let me tell you, it's 
 a blast to play. As far as graphics, they're a sandbox dream come true, sporting excellent character 
 models, with outstanding lighting and attention to detail, plus they're a joy to watch, from casual 
 people tying thier shoes, to picking their ass, it's fun just walking around and seeing these pedestrians 
 go about thier buisiness. You even see random police shootouts, and people getting mugged and shot 
 just to get their cars robbed, it's simply hilarious. My only gripe is that the city looks too 
 clean and lacks individual hobbies like playing billiards in a local bar, but oh well you can't 
 have everything. The audio is top notch, with well acted scripts from Hollywoods finest. Firearms 
 sounds great and overall ambience also sound very good. There's just too many things to mention 
 that makes this a game great. Unlike the idiot that want's attention by bad mouthing this game, 
 of course there's going to be one or two idiots like this, all I have to say is, that I strongly 
 recommend this excellent game to all those who love the free-roam genre. Is it like GTA? of course 
 it is, but it has its own style, characters, and more importantly it's own city. With all the customizations 
 and options, this game lived to its hype. And the only reason website reviewers didn't score this 
 game higher than what it deserves, is because they're GTA fanboys. But then again, who cares about 
 personal opinions, just play this game and you'll see what the fuzz is all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 30, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Saints row the gangsta' game from thq hit the Xbox 360 this month with lots of hope in mind. It 
 delivered an awesome performance with its similar gameplay style from fan favourite Grand Theft 
 Auto. The games graphics are a little dissapointing considering that it run, s on the 360, but overall 
 this game has wicked gameplay lot of interesting missions and a whole lot of gang. The story mission 
 start after you have created your character you gain respect points which helps you customize your 
 character and that; s just pimped out. Overaal this game has enough mmissions and awesome gameplay 
 to satisfy any kind of person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknferno12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 30, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Since the great GTA series success everyone has wanted some of that sweet, sweet gold but no one 
 has come close until now.
  Saints Row is your basic GTA style free-roaming game in the sense that you can go, do anything 
 you want (the maps is fully open from the beginning) . You start by creating a character (mostly 
 face) and then your able to change him later on via a plastic surgeon, a ton of cloths (you can 
 change the colors) which you can also get from the beginning of the game. There's a vast verity 
 of cars which all drive/feel different and can all be fully customize. There are no motorcycles, 
 bikes or planes (there is a train) but its the first game of this series so i'll cut them some 
 slack on those missing thing. The story is very fun but it's your basic gangsta story you join 
 a gang and try to take over the city but there are many things to do aside from the main Missions 
 like snatch missions where you kill a pimp and take his uh stable, street racing, insurance fraud, 
 Drug Trafficking, Escort (you drive around avoiding the media while people get to know each other) , 
 Hitman missions, Demolition Derby, Hijacking, Chop Shops, Mayhem missions. Other things you can 
 do rob a store (day from the clerk or night you have to break in) , if someone is in a car (passenger 
 side) hold them as a hostage, tag over other gangs tags. Also a cool thing is the other gangs (and 
 your own) don't just start shooting each other everytime they see each other and cops either don't 
 get in the way or side with one gang. One of the best things that i say is very over looked is 
 that there are no load time anywhere (just saving, loading saves) . The bad things are glitchs like 
 people from under your car pop at the side for no reason or people that follow you appear in your 
 car and the AI is sometimes really frustrating like you get a gang memeber to follow you, you get 
 in a car but who ever is following you doesn't get in. The online play is pretty fast pace (if 
 you ever played 25 to life it's like that only better) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanefelix
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  Now, i've reviewed a few games from times to times, but mostly only the good ones because they're 
 worth my time. Well, as you see, this game has great reviews from all over the place (at least 8.0+) and 
 through gamespot, it got 8.3, not amazing, but still great. Now, if you want to call this a GTA 
 clone, i dont mind, and so shouldnt everyone. A reason's cause it is, but people should just be 
 worried if it did better, or worse than GTA, but if you want to know that, just keep on reading....
 
  
  Gameplay: Now this is very similar to GTA, but the controls are much better. It's not like GTA 
 with the confusing aiming system, but in this game you aim like a FPS which handles much better. 
 The side missions which you'll hafta do are as interesting as GTA missions are, but then some are 
 even more fun like insurance fraud, or drug trafficking. The Gameplay could be summed up to be 
 better than GTA, period. Graphics: Now the graphics in this game is next-gen right? Well of course 
 it is, and it does look next gen and not a ported game. But in my personal opinion, i still dont 
 think they are carrying out most of the 360's power. Now im not saying its bad, it is good, but 
 not amazing good. If you're looking for something absoulotely stunning, wait for GOW or Halo 3. 
 Sound: Awesome, maybe one of the best parts of the game. The sound effects are done absoulotely 
 well, and with the cast of celebrties like mila kunis and others voice acting it, its much better 
 than other games i would say. Another stunning thing besides the voice actors are the games soundtrack. 
 You can listen to them in the car, or on your *mp3 player when you're playing the game, which is 
 quite a neat idea to me. Overall: If you loved GTA, you're gonna love this, if not, give it another 
 try becuase this fixes up a lot of GTA's problems, and maybe you'll find out that the things that 
 bothered you, might not again because Saints Row appeared to have fixed it. Now the single-player 
 itself is already great enough, read the next section to find out more about the online.
  
  Online: The online modes are great, you; ve got deathmatch, team deathmath you name it, most default 
 modes are here. Now the most unique modes are Protect tha Pimp and Blinged up Rides. These modes 
 really bring stradegy and depht to the game instead of mindless shooting. Think you're done with 
 single-player and fixing up your guy? Well guess what player? (*lol*) You got more to do online 
 becuase you'll have to start all over again online, but the good thing is that you can show-off 
 and be different from other people. Trust me, there is much replay value here. FInal Comments: 
 So what are you waitiing for!? Go, go download the demo or even bettter, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lee2099
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:39 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks! I've played all of the GTA games, but the downside I have to say about GTA are 
 the BS missions. What gangster really knows how to fly a plane? I mean it's good for the replay 
 value, but to make it into a serious mission? Come ooon! That's besides the point. This game is 
 the revamped version of GTA. THQ and Volition did a really good job making this game. It's got 
 great looking environments, controls, and the story line is awesome. What I DO love about this 
 game is that they got the guy who does the U. S. Navy commercials in it! HAHAHA! That was pure hilarity 
 in my opinion. If this game looks the way it does, I can't wait to see how GTA IV and Crackdown 
 will look. I finally found a game worth being addicted to besides Bankshot Billiards 2. LoL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch2423
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the summer 360 game drought is over! Saints Row is one of the best 360 games I've played 
 so far. It does take a lot of things from the GTA series but it does many of them better. The aiming 
 and shooting are much improved, the graphics are amazing and the online is just plain fun. Although 
 the area is not nearly as large as San Andreas it has all the major points of a large city and 
 allows you to explore anywhere from the start, no unlocking islands or areas. You'll be hard pressed 
 to find a better game this fall for your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical but willing to try this game out. No other game like Grand Theft Auto ever came 
 close to being better than GTA. Yet alone its' equal. Until Saints Row came along, now I feel that 
 the Grand Theft Auto series has finally gotten a worthy adversary. Saints Row cant help but be 
 related to the GTA style, but it still manages to have its own personality thats strong enough 
 keep you from wasting time calling the game a GTA wanna be. Everything from graphics and physics 
 is just over the top. The city is huge as well. The create a character option is good for people 
 that just have to play their own race. ( Which was made clear when people first heard that the San 
 Andreas main character was black. lol.) Pop ups are still common even for the next gen systems I 
 guess. You will notice alot of that. But thats not that big of a deal. The weapons navigation system 
 could have been better, seeing as looking for a weapons slows you down in the middle of gang wars. 
 Driving vehicles can be a pain sometimes but its not too bothersome. Playing online is fun so far. 
 But it takes forever to connect to a lobby. Other than that, this is another reason too own an 
 Xbox 360. Welcome to the Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrpieper17comet
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically GTA with bigger and better everything. The graphics are aweasome. The sound 
 is good but some of the language is a little too colorful for my tastes. It plays just like GTA. 
 Similar missions but they are a little more varied. Some are driving others are shooting. Some 
 outdoors others indoors. Overall this game raises the bar for the next GTA. The graphics looks 
 great and the game runs smooth but the screen tearing is awful. Its the worst during the cut scenes 
 but its always there. The voice acting is good all the cars sound cool. I just dont like hearing 
 the F bomb and N bomb in every sentence. There is a huge variety of cars. Sports cars, pick ups, 
 vans, rusty junkers. The customisation options are really deep whether it be for your car or your 
 character. I really like that you can buy and keep cars. There are missions for everyone. Racing, 
 demo derbies, hitman, chop shops, drug running, escort, there is a huge number of things to do. 
 And of course just like GTA one of the funnest thigns is just to drive around exploring and randomly 
 killing. This game is very similar to GTA but has a few huge improvements. The shooting is more 
 challenging and a lot funner. The driving is a little bit more challenging. It looks way better. 
 More variety in mission types. This game is definatley worth a shot. The demo on the marketplace 
 is a very poor representation of the full game and with that in mind i reccomend everyone at least 
 rents it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerrycee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  With the Disapointment of Madden 07, This game brought back excitment for the Xbox360. It has Good 
 Graphics, alot of pure action. the gameplay is descent and I really enjoy it. GTA its not but its 
 up there. Before i bought it , I tried the Demo and Automatically , I knew i had to have this game. 
 This game I think shouldnt be for kids under 18 because of the content , But good for 18 and older. 
 I enjoy the pimps & gangs and ho's in this game the atomisphere is so wild. The cars and the whips 
 are sharpe and the running over people is very funny LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexisonfire828
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This "review" is all about Saint's Row, but first I just want to talk to those people that are 
 complaining about the fact that it's a GTA rip-off. YES! It's just like Grand Theft Auto, so what? 
 Isn't Grand Theft Auto 3 just like Vice City with added things, I think so. Is Vice City and Grand 
 Theft Auto 3 just like San Andreas? Yep, it sure is and yet you buy those games that are the same. 
 So.. is Saint's Row just like San Andreas, you betcha! Moving on...
  
  Saint's Row has a lot to offer and with these offerings comes better graphics, open ended world, 
 and loading time is slim to none. Considering the game JUST came out, I haven't beaten it, but 
 I'll give you some insight as to what I know.
  
  The single player campaign is fun. The story is rather interesting and side missions are hilarious. 
 Even though it's like GTA I'm enjoying the different types of side missions, like the Insurance 
 Fraud activities where you have to jump in front of moving vehicles to earn cash. The story seems 
 to be split for each gang you have to take out. Giving you a new story and a new way missions should 
 be done, according to the person you're taking orders from.
  
  Multiplayer is really fun too, not much too say about this though. I haven't really experienced 
 lag and people online seem to be in the older audience crowd which is nice to not hear little brats 
 b***h and complains or just scream. The different game types are enjoyable and the ranking system 
 shows how much better you are then others. Along with the online gangs and co-op there isn't much 
 more to ask for in multiplayer. It's just plain out good times.
  
  Overall I find the game to be really well done, the voice acting is incredible and the graphics 
 along with an open ended world make it a refreshingly new GTA with less load times. Although, it's 
 a tad easy and I would've liked to have seen your character develop like in San Andreas. It's still 
 a great game and defiantly worth a buy!
  
  Welcome to the 3rd Street Saint's playa! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moegreen4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was everything I expected as far as it being a lot like GTA. The graphics are great and 
 as far as I am concerned, 360's best game yet when you figure in everything (graphics, gameplay 
 etc.) So far though, the missions seem rather easy and the shootouts remind me a little of Max 
 Payne, meaning you can kind of charge the enemy and shoot without them doing too much damage to 
 you. Side missions are great also as you can do things like hijack cars, sell dope and work for 
 a brothel protecting their ho's. Overall, it's a very fun game and will keep my attention until 
 GTA comes out on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: John_911
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  all i have to say is wow finaly a good game compared to gta i loved gta 3 fore the ps2 and when 
 vice city and san andreas came out i was dissapointed of its repeat it was just the same old formula. 
 Saints row is the best game i own now its got a very good single player that draws u in the game 
 and dosent let u go and the online idea is very compelling. the audio is one thing i am very satisfied 
 with when ure driving next to a car with loud music u can hear it perfectly with the high quality 
 speakers. when something blows up u hear it throughout the house lol.
  
  the graphics and physics are awsome when a car goes boom its parts go flying maybe even hit u and 
 knock u on the grown. u can blow almost everything up and its fun kicking a** when ure drunk seeing 
 bodies fly.
  
  u can collect cars get a big wardrobe theres so much to do in this game i dont know where to start 
 wich is y this game has to be in ure collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JesseMarshall
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are great! they are so much better than GTA,
  
  the sound is really good, the music is good.
  
  this game has a very good character creation 
 mode
  you'll like alot about how its better than gta in some ways.
  
  when i compare this to GTA i'm comparing it to vice city, because i havn't played san andreas.
 
  
  its a superb pick up and rampage game.
  and its suprisingly good! i'd go pick it up if your looking for a really fun game.
  
  my apologies 
 for things i spelt wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakon178
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty effin sweet. Its got great gameplay and even has multiplayer for xbox live. 
 It is a must have for 360 owners. The graphics look great and the gameplay is easy to catch on 
 to. The customization is sweet too! Makes me feel like i'm a gangsta. The missions are pretty awsome 
 and entertaining. There are tons of activitys to play. The world is very interactive as well. Its 
 great. Its good. Its fun. Its awsome. Its entertaining. It turns me on in ways i could never imagine. 
 It's so satisfying. For those of you who don't own it you don't know what your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzarae
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  this is a good game with lots of activities that I wouldn"t mind completeing.
  besides the glitches it has it is just plan fun for another experince before grand theft auto comes 
 in november. But still is a great game to play online with friends or with new people. But the overall 
 game is good and still has things to be wanted .
  at the begining the game has good character custimazation there is also a lot of variety while 
 your in the to also custimazation while your in the game . and also there should be better music 
 to listen to while your in the car because it kind of doesn't go good with the theme of the game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supakilla_2004
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game today and I am amazed by all its features! The graphics are incredible. Character 
 creation is easy, fun, and unbelivable. There is a very good variety of clothes, tattoos, jewelery, 
 and cars. In this game there is an option to edit cars which enables you to pick the body kit, 
 front bumper, and so much more. Good combat, you are able to kick, punch with your left and right 
 arms, block, and the weapons are pretty good. The game contains everything that GTA San Andreas 
 has and better. If you have and Xbox 360 and you like the GTA series you must get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PandemicSuprise
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Aside from Just Cause, GTA IV, and Crackdown this is lives up to its long awaited exciting release. 
 I picked up this game at noon, and when I got home at 1 I contiunied to play it. Even now as I 
 write the review I would rather be playing that right now. The game its self is very elaborate. 
 The things you can do to earn money in the city is wonderfully crafted. My favorite would have 
 to be when you step into a car with a passenger and hold them hostage until they give you money. 
 Like I said very creative. The graphics are just what you would expect from a NO LOADING 360 game. 
 The graphics are outstanding actually. And like I said no loading except for cutscenes. This game 
 is really easy to pick up and play and to learn how to punch or gun your way through the neighborhood 
 will only take you a short half hour to become a pro. The music in the game is not exactly to my 
 liking but it does have a great amount of Rap and Hip Hop from no one I've heard. The Rock/Metal 
 are seriously lacking, but I guess thats what the import music button is for. The sound of the 
 game is great, between people screaming at you or the shots from a blazing gun fight they are great. 
 No matter what you do there are littlerly hundereds of things you can do right from the beginning 
 of the game. I havn't had a chance to play multiplayer but lets hope that lives up the hype as 
 well. My final opinion would be that this game will continue to stay in my collection long into 
 the years just like GTA. The game is honostly a must own for 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammys2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I thought maybe this was going to be an easy 1,2,3 game that would be over and done with in about 
 3 days from beginning to end, but I am afraid I am mistaken. This is a unique game with features 
 and graphics in HD that make you actually think you are right there playing as one of the Saints. 
 There are so many activites and jobs to complete and you can do them at your leisure without being 
 pressured into completing a task within a time limit. Overall this is better that Great, it is 
 a Superb Game! The makers of GTA are going to have to come up with something to top this game, 
 since this is a game all in it's own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BackyardJedi
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The ability to create your own gangsta to what u look like is un believable. 
 I don't understand how some people think its a rip off of GTA. It has a lot more to offer than 
 GTA. U can actually put spinners on ur car. U cant do that on San Andreas or any other GTA Game. 
 It has more clothes to offer u, it has more hair styles to offer u including dreadlocks. This game 
 is incredible, i mean when was the last time u could go online and form your own gang with your 
 friends on xbox live? This is the first game to let u do that. This is way better than GTA. Whoever 
 says its a rip off. u r not my friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electric_90
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  If you are planing to buy an Xbox 360 game i recommend to buy Saints Row.
  The saints Row is not 100% exact the same as GTA San Andreas because you cant drive any of the 
 air crafts, Trains, or Boats. But in the Saints Row there is one thing that i like about then GTA 
 that you can create and design your own character and the graphics is much better of all of the 
 Gta Games. So i think that both of the games should be equally be tied in it's rating.
  
  Saint Row: 1) Design your own character 2) Better Graphics 3) Better controls, and cars BESTEST GAME 
 EVER PLAYED ON XBOX 360!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bert7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a fan of the GTA games, but heck I gave this one a chance. First off ther game 
 is very well presented. Now lets start, the story is actually good, good plot, good characters, 
 good twists, and very well thought out. The visuals in the game are actually really good, the sound 
 is good as well. The controls are a bit funky, but you'll get use to them. What I am not too crazy 
 about is the physics, really weird they should of incorporated a different Physics engine; it just 
 doesnt feel right. Overall the game was undoubtly lots of fun and has a great re-play value. I 
 highly recommend this game to anyone who is a GTA fan, and need somthing to kill time while GTA 
 iV is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  First time, you pick up the controller and start the game. Saints Row will feel 90% like GTA: San 
 Andreas. Not only did Volition copied almost everything that made San Andreas a great game, it 
 also improved on stuff that you wished it would in a GTA game. First thing you notice that lacked 
 in GTA was how "alive" the city feels. Impressively, traffic lights actually works (yellow light 
 too) and cars have turn signals when they turn. Gangs would hang out together, and hookers would 
 walk with exaggerated hip movements, pimps with their hoes, and also everyday normal people. This 
 is really an aspect GTA didn't do very well. 2nd things Volition improved upon GTA is the graphics. 
 GTA's graphics had always been average at best, but the graphics in Saint's Row is unbelievable 
 colorful, and rich. Day to night transition and weather effects are perfect and dynamic lightning 
 is awesome. What's a step above GTA is the new multiplayer option. Tried some of the game modes, 
 they have some really interesting and fun game types there like "Protect the Pimp" became one of 
 favorite. With more than 300 tracks to listen while you're in a car and great voice-acting, Saints 
 Row definately belongs to the higher echelons of games. A great multiplayer and a 30-40 hours campaign 
 and the 10-20 points achievements will have you hooked to the game for a while. Being the killer-app 
 GTA is, and that Saint's Row been able to top it, I would say this is definately one of the must-buy 
 for 360 owners. Despite it's unoriginality, there's nothing wrong with re-creating and improving 
 on a recipe that worked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZZoMBiE13
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  There is no denying the popularity of the sandbox style gameplay that has been made popular in 
 recent years. The appeal of a go -anywhere-do-anything game is pretty hard not to like. With that 
 in mind Volition had crafted a game well suited to anyone who wants an open-ended game with lots 
 to offer. While there is the stigma of being a GTA clone, Saints Row manages to feel fresh and 
 offer up a few things that GTA has yet to capitalize on. Namely a fully realized multiplayer component 
 and a create-a-character that could give Tiger Woods a run for his money. You start out in Saints 
 Row being narrowly rescued from some pretty hostile gangland warfare. Your champions, Julius and 
 his ever present sidekick, save your hide and offer you a spot in the club to try and "Clean up 
 the Row". But after that it's entirely up to you. Head straight to the mission at the church or 
 go around town seeing all there is to see. There is no penalties for taking your sweet time getting 
 started and there is seemingly no limits to the available distractions that can keep you occupied 
 for literally hours on end. And what fun is sandbox gameplay without weapons? Well luckily you 
 won't have to find out as SR has a varitable arsenal of expertly crafted weaponry available to 
 anyone who has the cash, and with no 10-day waiting period. Weapons are broken down into classes 
 and there are a few options in each of the classes that range in effectiveness and style. Four 
 pistols, two SMG, three rifles, etc. There is no lock on aiming in SR, simply point and fire. It's 
 an easy game mechanic to pick up for anyone whos played pretty much any shooter in the last 5 years 
 so learning curve shouldn't hold any player back. The weapons all sound fantastic and about as 
 accurate as can be hoped for. Visually SR makes good use of the 360's power. While no one will 
 argue that this is the best looking game for the console, it manages to pull off a consistant look 
 and feel with nearly no load times or pop-up. Draw distance isn't even an issue in this game. There 
 are also some pretty nice effects for fire and water and when a car explodes bits and pieces fly 
 out in every direction. There is really nothing negative to say in regards to either visuals or 
 audio. There is a free demo on the XBL Marketplace and it does a pretty good job of showing off 
 what the game has to offer. So give it a try and see if SR is your cup of tea. While it won't be 
 winning any awards for originality, it's still a game worthy of almost anyones attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b4timer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  the true this game have a lot of funny things but there is small problem it relesed in wrong time 
 they shoud relesed before 1 month cos gta will come soon but i advice every 1 who like gta and 
 this good games to buy this game without thinking about it its from the best games u will ever 
 see :D i saw many movies for it it was great but little bad graphics but better than gta lol i 
 think xbox360 is better than ps3 in this games . but there must be more games so i wish that u 
 have fun in sanit row as i do thanks for reading :d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: racinmason101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game today and man I've got to say what a game! I have been waiting for a good 
 GTA type of game to come out on the 360 and here it is. This game has a few flaws but they are 
 not enough for me to give it a bad review. I do think that some of the graphics could have been 
 done better but its not bad. The Dolby Digital Sound is awesome if you do not have surround sound 
 you should get it because this is a game where you truely do not get the full effect without the 
 surround sound, I have yet to explore the xbox live capabilities but I do hear good things about 
 it. I will recommend that anybody that liked the GTA games do give this one a try because it is 
 just about as close a replica without copyright infringment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hitman_16
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row looks as if it rips off GTA and it does at a certain extent. In GTA you can bail out 
 of your car, get your wanted stars taken away, and fight rival street games. If you've played GTA 
 then this game should be as simple as apple pie to play. You can pretty do the same stuff that 
 you were able to do in San Andreas but the game is much deeper then a GTA game.
  
  One thing that GTA lacks is something that many people consider a must to have on a free roaming 
 game. Customization. You get to fully customize what your character looks like from how much he 
 weights to how high or low his eye brows go. You can even create the character to look similar 
 to you.
  
  Physics is another thing that this game overpowers GTA in. When a car hits you, a car is actually 
 hitting you. You don't land flat on your back or on your stomach motionless. Your characters body 
 will go flying with arms and legs flapping around. Hand-to-Hand is very awesome on here. You can 
 hit with both hands and even kick your enemies in the crotch (or very close to it) , which is very 
 funny to watch.
  
  Finally graphics. While this game is on a next-gen consol and GTA has yet to be on one, the graphics 
 are great. I'm not going to go on bragging about graphics because GTA IV isn't out but I will be 
 waiting to see what it looks like.
  
  Saints Row is a very good game that should be played by anyone who enjoys GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercole810
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  A smoother, sleeker GTA. Lots to do and explore without having to always eat and work out. Cd stores 
 allow you to buy all types of music and create own playlists. Taking over numerous gang territory 
 piece by piece, side missions and earning respect all combine to make an overall great game. Choose 
 from white, Black, Asian, or Hispanic player and take to the streets, defeat pimps, recruit hoes 
 and do it all in the comfort of your own home. Dress to impress and earn respect by wearing the 
 royal color of purple. Graphics smooth, have not encountered a load screen yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is almost perfect.... its a must-have for any xbox 360 owner
  i will write down a list of all of the postives and negatives of this game, although i can't find 
 many negatives.
  
  + HUGE living city, crimes happen in front of you, etc.
  + GREAT voice acting and sounds throughout the city (funny remarks from pedestrians)
  + excellent 
 array of weapons and bombs
  + AMAZING graphics
  +awesome explosions
  +fun side activities and side missions
  +nice assortment of cars and car customization
  + nice 
 assortment of clothes
  + repuation aspect of the game is very good
  + great music and funny stations
  +PLAYER CUSTOMIZATION
  +robbing stores is fun!
  +ONLINE 
 PLAY WITH UP TO 16 PLAYERS!
  +retrieve cars that you hooked up, even after they explode!
  
  -can't fly helicopters or planes or motorcycles or boats
  - storyline is like GTA lol... not 
 really a smooth story, but i just started it so it may get better
  - few bugs... nothing major or annoying
  
  there is no doubt in my mind that this game deserves 
 a REALLY high score
  anyone reading this review should definitely get Saints Row! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeuralizR
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Yes, it's very similar to GTA in so many ways, but it does have a lot of additions to the classic 
 GTA gameplay. Most notably multiplayer with quite a few modes, including CO-OP. While in a lot 
 of places, it doesn't feel like that comfortable, well know place you've spent so many hours hanging 
 out in, it starts feeling familiar pretty quickly.
  
  It's not GTA, but it is. If you liked GTA, chances are you'll love this. If you hated GTA for lack 
 of online and multiplayer, here's your fix. ;)
  
  The number of tracks available to listen to while playing is a bit mis-leading. While it's stated 
 to have 130 tracks, about 1/3 of them are classical music, quite a few sounding very similar.
 
  
  The framerate issues from the demo are almost completely gone.
  
  I haven't seen any "ghosted while loading" issues yet, but I trust that there are a few issues. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astrozombie0707
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 1:11 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game, I thought, "Not another mediocre GTA wannabe!". But once I got my hands 
 on it and actually played it I discovered it was much more than that. Now I more look at it like 
 an upgrade. The graphics are really something to behold. Every time I walk past a car I can't resist 
 but blow it up only to see the beautiful ballet of death, sending flames, vehicle parts, and even 
 people soaring through the air. The missions are pretty interesting. From pimping girls to pimping 
 rides, it's all good. In my opinion, the Multiplayer experience is what really makes this Gangster 
 Gem shine. All of the above things are really fun to do and I am absolutely hooked on this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isfn3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't beat a game on ur xbox360 this is the game to do it. There are soo many ways and 
 things to do its unreal!!! GTA may have been used for the base of the game, but if u really look 
 at it, GTA doesn't have half the things u can do in Saints Row. I mean recruite anybody in ur gang 
 to ride with u and complete missions, or better yet start mayhem where ever u want. Next Gen gaming 
 will always look top notch compared to any other system out there expecilly on HD. Pick up this 
 game, and if u dont, dont feel left out when its rated number one game and you cant get ur hands 
 on it!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usy911
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  saints row concept is not new i, u can call it a copy of gta or a better copy of a gta. because 
 it not only has better graphics than gta. but lot more things to do in the game, it has more action 
 & fun. hey one more thing it also has multiplayer playing option which gta games dont have. but 
 we all know gta4 is coming in 2007. and it can blow saints away. but gta4 is far away. so saints can 
 do a gr8 business. but i still say saints dosent have originality. its a god game. but total copy 
 of gta.. gta was original & innovative creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owskie
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  To me this was so much better than any other grand theft auto game it will be hard for rockstar 
 to beat this one. There were so many missions and so many litle things to do. controls were very 
 well. got it all very fast and the no lock on for shooting was better could take out more faster. 
 But it would have been good for lock on during melee. i had many swings and misses. The grafics 
 are very well done. The radio stations telling whats going on around is a good touch hear what 
 the town has to say about the hell youve risen. What i love most is the ragdoll finally a game 
 like GTA with ragdoll. nowi can ram cars and see the people go flying out the window or hit a pedestrian 
 and watch as they flail to the ground. Grade A game cant wait to get online and see other gangs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iasfdglai
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  I never really cared for this game the entire time it was being produced until a few days ago when 
 I got bored of Oblivion, so I went and picked it up. BTW since this is so imporant, I never played 
 a GTA game other than just freeroaming at a friends house.
  
  Gameplay - This is the most solid part of the game. It plays just like a hitman game and actually 
 takes some skill to shoot your gun. Even though I found the game to be a bit too easy. The driving 
 can be a little odd with the controlls while your shooting, but it can be mastered. THERE ARE A 
 FEW CONTROL SETUPS ALSO thought I'd add that.
  
  Graphics - eh. they are alright considering the size but there are noticable drops in framerate 
 and this game doesn't feature any blood.. well a little but it sucks. On the other hand the ragdoll 
 and explosions are very fun too look at.
  
  Sound - Great sounding game but the voice acting lacks enough depth to actually make me feel like 
 a thug. The guns and explosions and radiostations are great though.
  
  Value - Seems like there is alot of stuff too do in this game I'm only 11% complete and I've been 
 playing for hours doing the Drug Trafficing which I find to be a ton of fun. The multiplayer lacks 
 depth but is a nice addition. But if you are in desprate need of a multiplayer game, like me, this 
 will do the trick.
  
  Overall- I'm very happy with this game and I think it's definately worth the money. Hope this helps, 
 sorry I couldn't compare anything to GTA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theGman911
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  This game is the bomb. Listen, in this day and age, with soooo many games out there, ANY game that 
 comes out is a rip off of another game. You have to look at what was put into the game, and if 
 the game is any good by itself. And saints row definately pulls this off with flying colors!! Not 
 only do you have the main story line, but many more side missions than GTA, and a HELL of alot 
 more fun. The graphics alone outshine, along with the sound and everything else. Would you rather 
 Volition came out with another pokemon game, or some gay a** SH*T that some of these companies 
 are throwing out there? Sales alone will show that this game is KING. And mark my words, you wanna 
 see rip off? Watch how many companies now try to rip off saints row once they see the sales hit 
 the roof, and watch them fail miserably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix2005x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Listen everyone is complaining about the game then dont buy it common sense for some of you people. 
 GTA is a great game no doubt but come on nothing is orginial, not music, not movies and especially 
 video games. There are so many wannabe greats but they fall short cause people complain about every 
 little thing. what people should complain is about the price of the video games and that there 
 is nothing special that a $60.00 game has that a $40.00 game doesnt have. If everyone wants to 
 complain go to design school or create video games and then we can complain about your work. Also 
 lets see the news about this game how a kid copied what happens in this game just like GTA. Gee 
 wonder where the parents are? That is who should be taking responsibility not the government. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seabiscit
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  people may say that this is a rip off of GTA but so is everyother or soon to be free roaming crime 
 game so just lay off. and to the idiot who said its a 1.0 shut up! if ign and officail xbox magizine 
 and all those others say its damn good game then what do you know? you dont even have a 360 so 
 i ask again what do you know? the graphics are amazing and the game play is awsome and its everything 
 that GTA should have been so dont be mad that these guys got it right the first time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jfreshmatrix
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  First off, let me say ive played through the entire GTA series starting at 3, ive loved every single 
 one, Saints Row, even know its an exact copy, does have its own style believe it or not, obviously 
 its more "fake" than the GTA series, but it does it, in my opinion, in a very light hearted way 
 and at times, makes fun of itself. Moving on to playing the actual game, gameplay IS the most important 
 aspect of a game, this is were Saints Row excels the most, yes for a open world game the visuals 
 are impressive, but gameplay is were its at in SR. The physics alone make this game worth while, 
 shooting/running over/blowing up people never gets old with this game, ragdoll is defintely one 
 of the main focuses of the game. Another thing that obviously stands out thats not currently in 
 the GTA series, is fully customizable characters, every single thing on your chracter is just about 
 customizable, I probably spent almost 45 min just on this alone. Though it might just be me, I 
 would of liked to see a better selection of clothing, granted they have all styles, there just 
 wasnt enough of each style, just something small. The actual missions are sometimes repetitive, 
 but there fun, thats what matters, its taken me around 28 hours to compelete the main storylines, 
 this is also counting activities I had to do to progress and unlock, theres a lot of gaming to 
 be done, ill just leave it at that.
  Graphics, yes were all graphic whores at some point in our life, Saints Row is definitely not one 
 of the best looking games, but for what it is, being a huge open world game, its damn good. It 
 has a very clean, realistic look, but the art style is more on the cartoonish side, if that makes 
 any sense. Textures overall are good to great, some better than others, but lots of variety, something 
 else that really impressed me was the weather, it does a very convincing overcast/stormy day, theres 
 also different levels of intensity. Moving onto character models, there quite decent for the art 
 style it went for, I think it did a good job, although if you make a crappy looking character, 
 don't blame it on the game having crappy models! Overall, minus some pop in and wierd graphical 
 glitches, the visuals are great.
  
  Sound is a important aspect as well, the track selection isn't as elite as say the GTA series, 
 but its definitely a good B + soundtrack, some stuff you'll reconize, most you won't, that doesn't 
 mean you won't come away with a new favorite song though. Ambient sounds are decent as well, hearing 
 a blasting system coming down the street is surprisingly realistic sounding, also with changing 
 frequencys as you enter and get out of your car is very convincing. The most improved sound related 
 issue when it came to GTA's cap gun sounding guns, is definitely more than improved in Saints Row, 
 guns all sound good and make them all the more fun to shoot, with each having its own unique sound. 
 Overall the sound is good, not the best sounding ever in a game but its not bad at all.
  
  Multi-player, I got the game kind of early you might say, so there wasn't a good amount of people 
 on to play against, but from what I can tell its solid, nothing revolutionary but good none the 
 less. One cool thing is being able to customize your character online as well, you earn money from 
 playing games to upgrade your character wich makes it a little addicting to keep playing. When 
 I play this, even though its a completely different setting, I get the Socom vibe in a weird way, 
 maybe its just the third person view that does it, I don't know. Theres also co-op wich I have 
 yet to experience, but it is there. If your buying this game for the multiplayer alone, I would 
 rent it first, not because it sucks, but because it might not be everybodys style.
  
  Overall this is a better than average game, its great! There are so many improvements it makes 
 on the genre, that hopefully, more dev's in this genre will look at, and even improve more on. 
 Now there are some things that it could of used like motorcycles! No airplanes ok, ill cut them 
 a break, motorcycles were one of the best things about GTA VC and SA, they left them out *sigh* 
 I guess that will be on my wishlist for SR 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeweeshift
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  I'm tired of people relating this to gta. Therfore my review is based on this game not relating 
 it to gta
  
  This game isn't very keen on the story mode which is long but the side attractions in the game 
 will keep you coming. You can get yourself plastic surgery, liposuction!!! and you can jump fences. 
 The enviorment is quite interactive for a free roaming game which is a plus and having your own 
 gang is cool. You can get one of them to shoot the car while you drive and they do it in such a 
 gangster way. (8/10)
  
  The pedestraians all have voices and sound quite different with their own lines. They even say 
 some humourous lines (eg. i stole a guys car and he said :nooo!! i didn't finish paying this months 
 lease". The sound effects them selves are great. (sound10/10)
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing. You can see detail on each person and they each look different 
 in there own way. And to keep it nice and simple they wear similar clothing if they are in the 
 same gang. The Explosions look awesome and remind me of mercenaries. You can flip a car over and 
 shoot it watching everythin shatter and explode. The cars themselves look cartoony but cool anyways. 
 The landscaping of the city looks amazing and almost real. The only thing thats negative about 
 the graphics is the streamed loading that you see a lot. (8/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  I was in CC today getting ready to hunker down for the hurricane down here in South Florida today 
 and was surprised to find Saint for sale so i bought it on impulse.
  
  I am not a big fan of the GTA series for the simple fact of my own tastes in games. I like sports 
 and FPS primarily. Anyway, when i popped the disk in my 360, i was drawn into the game so much 
 so that i stopped with my hurricane prep. Once i created my profile, i really took a "ownership" 
 to the missions and my "status" as a member of my posse. To keep this short and brief....
  Even if you are not a fan of GTA style gaming, you should enjoy this game... if you "are" a fan 
 then you will go ape over this new style of entertainment.
  
  The city is "IMMENSE"... which, given the graphics you can get lost in a cruising kind of experience.
 
  
  Voice acting is hollywood quality
  
  This is definetely a game that anyone should OWN; don't waste your money renting this game, because 
 you will probably want to buy it anyway, so save the $6 bucks and put it towards a purchase, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socialninjitsu
Rating: 3.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  There would be a lot to love about this game if it were original or had a deep storyline. I have 
 to say that I was unimpressed with this title. Aside from a few new elements like gunpoint store 
 robbery and kicking adding a tiny touch of flare, it's basically what you're used to. The plastic 
 surgery novelty is cool for a bit. I don't mind rehashing a good thing, but you have to add a great 
 and meaningful storyline progression if you do. I'd have loved to see another game like silent 
 hill 1 with a new story just as deep, and the same types of subtly creepy monsters, environments, 
 and realities. This didn't do it for me. The high score on this game suggests to me that a game 
 like silent hill 1 with a new storyline would sell like hotcakes, which would be a dream come true. 
 However, I can't give this one a high score. There was nothing standout aside from a few really 
 cool new tricks, which don't have anything on a great story/environment combination in my honest 
 opinion. That's just my experience. A lot of folks will love it. If you love GTA style gameplay 
 to the point where you just want more new experiences in the same style, grab this immediately. 
 You'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_R_A_K_A
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 13, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Saints row is a gangbangin fun time. Create your own character with tons of options between hair, skin, eyes, fat 
 / muscle, and lots more. You join up in a gang thats just like real life you have to fight your way 
 in. Tons of wepon chocies and cars for you to bash, smash, smack, and destroy. Give your character a 
 good look suck as a pimp, gangster, thug, or a nice guy and there are tons of clothes to do so. There 
 are other rival gangs that try to kill you and take your turf but the 3rd street saints aint about 
 to give that up. Ragdoll makes the game ever more fun, just take a car ram someone and watch them 
 fly. Xbox live, a very fun feature were two or more team try to kill the others and take there bling 
 to be the best gangster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital-Devil
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Ok it is in a way fair to call this a GTA clone, reason is easy to see
  But one big thing about GTA is the online thing never seemed to work
  Saints Row has that going 
 on for it
  This is the first "next gen" game like this so it'll do well no doubt
  It isn't for kids at all so PLEASE DONT BUY IT FOR YOUR CHILDREN!!!!
  We dont need more people 
 getting up-set over another game
  This game gives freedom like GTA so GTA fans WILL like it if they can get past the "clone" look 
 and feel of it
  Honestly if you like GTA get it, if you dont than maybe rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluejay88
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  yea yeea this game is off the chizzle. this is one of hte best games i've ever played. you get 
 to customize you're own character, steal rides then pimp it out. hold up cashiers for easy cash. get 
 **** shoot **** andsee some ass and **** in the club. my favorite part of all, snactching hos. 
 just look this game is more fun than GTA, better graphics better tilt definlety a better storyline 
 and way better gameplay and this is what next gen is about. and i think this game is gonna go places 
 GTA never could even dream of. this game has the instance makings of being a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: escocashflow
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Yeah Yeah this game may be similar to GTA but think of it as more advance. The gameplay is amazing, 
 I love the introduction. Dudes getting there heads blown off 1 by 1. Also the fact that you can 
 make your own character is crazy. My guy look sexy like me lol. The graphics.................. what 
 the hell you want me to say, they are mind blowing. I cant believe how sharpe everything looks. 
 The controls are a little weird at first but you will get use to it, I personally had to change 
 the driving controls. The sound is beautiful. When you shoot something you would swaer that there 
 is something going outside of you house, that is how sweet the gun effects sound. The music is 
 great, Wu Tang hit a classic with this lol. Trust me If you love GTA your going to want to die 
 for Saints Row. If you have $60 get your ass to the nearest game store and buy one, I dont care 
 if you have to wait outside like a basehead for 3  IT. 
 This game is amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLI-FI
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  [size=9] [color=black] [center] Like to point out that GTA pretty much stole the whole car theft 
 concept from a playstation game called "Driver 2" the difference is GTA created an entire free 
 roaming world that not only revolutionized, but flat out created a new genre in its own respect. 
 Saint's Row, a game that pretty much takes everything GTA is or going back further Driver 2, shooting 
 games, rpgs and everything else the Grand Theft Auto serious is built on, something a whole slew 
 of sub category rip offs tried to exploit GTA's success. The difference here is that Saints Row 
 actually accomplishes this goal on expanding the genre, while building upon it with next gen gameplay 
 ploys such as ragdoll physics, different types of rendering and textures, and a much more detailed 
 alive world that couldn't have been accomplished on the previous generation of games. Chances are 
 though once GTA enters the next gen Saints Row wont stand a chance, though the next gen GTA wont 
 actually be out until next year doesnt mean you shouldnt enjoy Saints Row now to get your GTA fix. 
 Sure Saints Row copies the basic story layout, the car jacking theme, the way missions are set 
 up, radio stations, and basically everything Grand Theft Auto is, at least it did it right, which 
 instead of resenting this game for copying GTA we should view it as a tribute to a game that revolutionized 
 the way games are played today.
  
  [/center] [/size] [/color] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so Saints Row borrows more than liberally from a very familiar and popular series of games. 
 It's got mostly the same gameplay mechanics and the same conceptual framework. It also has Hollywood 
 voice talent and a diverse soundtrack, and a penchant for wanton, despicable violence and crass 
 humor.
  
  Big deal. These things aren't exactly copyrighted. And if you can -- to borrow a sports cliche -- take 
 it to the next level, you oughta do it.
  
  That's what THQ and Volition have done. Saints Row doesn't try to masquerade itself as an original 
 game, but as a game that builds on a proven formula. And it does so with spirit. The XBox 360 needed 
 an open-world, adult-themed action game, and this more than capably fills the bill. Saints Row, 
 in a span of months, has become a very polished and very inventive title, when it once appeared 
 that it was headed for disaster.
  
  Here's the basic breakdown: you immerse yourself in the gang culture and try to work your way up 
 the ladder through the shadiest means possible. It's not rocket science. But you can also divert 
 yourself with some wickedly good multiplayer options and can develop your character in ways that 
 the GTA series did not explore. You control and defend turf, you recruit homies, you make as much 
 scratch as possible, etc. It's a simple but pleasurable experience, and Saints Row features enough 
 nice touches and clever nuances to distinguish itself from the competit -- er, predecessors.
  
  Sharp visuals and animation, solid sound effects, and intuitive controls cap off the overall 
 package. Saints Row stands on its own, regardless of what the critics might allege. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 7:46 am PT
Review:  Good Lord I haven't had this much fun playing an open world game since San Andreas. I've played 
 games like Godfather, Driver, and True Crimes since I lasted played San Andreas and none of these 
 games came close to that game til I played Saint's Row. Even thou it's has a lot of things from 
 San Andreas it's still a great game with a pretty good storyline. One of the things those that 
 I didn't like in 2 days I've played 20 hours of this game and I'm already 61% done with the game. 
 The more you go through missions the harder they get. You'll come across some really annoying missions 
 all the way to the end especially the one with the Westside Rollerz with the aiming system. Which 
 in that particular mission you wish you had auto aim for at least that one.
  
  Other than that I never had so much funny doing some of the missions in this game. One of my 2 
 favorites are insurance fraud and mayhem. These are sub missions that you have to do in order to 
 earn respect and money. They are plenty of different ways to earn respect and money which is why 
 I like this game so much and you can in advance in any order you want as well. Just go up to any 
 of the gangs icon on the maps to continue the main story but to do that you'll have to do these 
 crazy fun sub missions to continue. You also own a total of 4 cribs in the game and also take over 
 territories as you fight over other gangs for it. The game sounds and looks great blowing up cars 
 never looked so good til now. Just watching the car blow up and burn was so fun to do. If you like 
 it in GTA: SA you'll Love it in Saint's Row. If you're a fan of the GTA series and look for a game 
 to hold you out til you GTA: IV comes out you should definitely get this game and added to your 
 collection and it also has multiplayer and co-op mode online and systemlink so check this game 
 out overall it's a great and fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxAK47xX
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  this game is a must have. if your waiting at home starring at the clock rocking back and forth 
 in that 1970's rocking chair then you need to pick this games up........... NOW. every thing you 
 want in a sand box game. the only thing wrong is that there are no airplains, boats, or mortilcysles. 
 Online is great i always wanted a onling gangster game. take note GTA... . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 29, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  This game is fun theres tons of things to do (Main missions, activities , mess around) . It has 
 outstanding graphics and thesounds and voices fit in like perfect. The online play is fun playin 
 with other people. (its what people always wanted in GTA is online) Theres pretty cool guns cool 
 cars you could custimize your guy prettty cool. You could swim. Go through dirve throughs for your 
 food and you could have it in your inventory to eat later which is cool. When you play it you could 
 see alot of GTA related things but then theres a pretty lot of stuff thats new and improved or 
 just plain new.
  
  Overall the game to me is better than GTA and the online thing is cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row is starts off which you creating your character with any type of imaginable features 
 you could think of. This chracter customization is even more in-depth than Oblivion's, which was 
 very damn good
  
  Once you create your guy, it's off to join the wolrd of gangfighting, ho slapping, and lawbreaking 
 via ur induction into the 3rd Street Saint's
  
  And then the fun begins
  
  Gameplay- Open-ended and awesome, guns function like any others, but the sheer variety of what 
 you can do will make you keep coming back for more. But the Multipalyer is what really sets this 
 game apart and makes it tuly better than GTA
  
  Graphics- They are great taking into account the hugeness of the world, and look really good upclose
 
  
  Sound- A Great rap/hip-hop soundtracks, and all the voiceovers sounds jsut right, and ramming ur 
 car into a hooker has never sounded mroe real
  
  Value- For $60, you're definetley getting your full money's worth as you'll be popping this game 
 in years from now
  
  Tilt- At long last, a game that not only rivals, but beats GTA in many ways
  
  In the end if 
 you like action games where you can do as you please, then "Welcome to Saint's Row, a little slice 
 of hell" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shady555
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 29, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  Saints row is a under- appreciated game that really deserves more credit. It may be similar to 
 GTA but you could make that case for EVERY game for pete's sake. The graphics are amazing and they 
 really show what the 360 can do. The lighting effects are spectacular with headlights appearing 
 on buildings, along with the flashing police lights leaving their mark. The scenery even reflects 
 off the vehicle's paint. The sound is also an a+. The soundtrack will keep you listening for weeks 
 and the pedestrian chatter is funny and ongoing. You can even hear bass from certain vehicles and 
 when the doors open, you can hear the song playing before you get in. Theres many hours of gameplay 
 to experience, whether its the main story line or all the activities you can do to build up respect. 
 If tall that doesn't tickle your fancy, you can jump online and "protect the pimp" with your buddies, 
 bling out your ride, get more chains then your opponents, or just brawl, ghost recon style- gang 
 vs. gang. Overall this game takes urban chaos to a new level and will be more then enough to keep 
 you busy until gta 4. My advice would be to get this game NOW! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
