-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Saints Row 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/saintsrow2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Satisfying combat.
 Tons of variety.
 Zombie Uprising is awesome.
 Co-op mode is a blast.
 You can throw people 20 feet.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Friendly AI is frustratingly stupid.
 Multiplayer is forgettable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 64 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 2,928 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Volition Inc.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Oct 14, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Saints Row 2 is crass, immature, and really fun. 

  When the original Saints Row came out two years ago, it served to placate fans until Grand Theft 
 Auto made its next-generation debut. Saints Row's deviant destruction didn't push the boundaries 
 of what to expect from a free-roaming urban assault game, but it did provide an enjoyable outlet 
 for consequence-free chaos while never taking itself too seriously. Since then, Grand Theft Auto 
 IV has injected a dose of maturity into its typical sandbox fare, removing many of its outlandish 
 behaviors to create a more grounded portrayal of the gangster lifestyle. Saints Row 2 is not concerned 
 with growing up. It is a morality-free alternative to GTAIV, an unremorseful descent into mindless 
 mayhem. The lack of any major advancement in gameplay or storytelling may elicit a few flashes 
 of deja vu, but the unrepentant joy of terrorizing this humble metropolis makes this a viable palate-cleanser 
 for anyone willing to embrace the role of amoral dirtbag.  

           Racing in a bulldozer is always a great idea.      

  The story begins in a jail hospital, 
 where you've been in a coma ever since a gigantic explosion at the end of the first Saints Row 
 nearly ended your criminal actions permanently. After easily escaping from this lightly guarded 
 compound, you set off to recruit more people to your gang and retake the city of Stilwater. The 
 overarching story is derivative and not easily relatable, but there are some interesting episodes 
 contained within. The Brotherhood missions in particular are quite dark, documenting a tale of 
 vengeance that is sickly satisfying. After putting nuclear waste in their leader's tattoo ink, 
 you find yourself in a constant battle of one-upmanship. Deaths are taken lightly, propelling you 
 to even more outrageous behavior, but it fits within the context of this over-the-top gameworld. 
 The story never reaches beyond the barbaric needs of its protagonist, but the missions do contain 
 a few worthwhile cinematic payoffs.  

  While you may not be able to affect the outcome of your story, you can design your conqueror in 
 whatever image you desire. The character creation tool is quite extensive. You can drastically 
 change the weight and age of your character, pick from four different races, mold facial features 
 in whatever manner you desire, and even choose if you want a male or female protagonist. With only 
 six different voices to choose from, it can be difficult to accurately match one to whatever look 
 you happen upon, but it's a small price to pay for the wealth of creative options. You can visit 
 a plastic surgeon at any time to tweak your features, but the process is so in-depth, it's easier 
 just to choose a look at the beginning and stay with it.  

  The missions are predominantly of the drive-and-shoot variety that has become commonplace in the 
 genre. Though there are three different gangs opposing you, as well as various law enforcement 
 agencies, the only difference between them are the colors they wear and the scumbags who lead them. 
 The majority of missions boil down to raiding a building and killing everyone who moves. While 
 these excursions are usually entertaining, taking place in a variety of locations against increasingly 
 ridiculous odds, the repetition of the actions is undeniable. Some objectives do provide an opportunity 
 to do something a little different, though. For instance, when asked to rob a bank, you find out 
 your prize is not a vault of money, but an even more valuable hostage. This leads to a strong detour 
 in both the story and gameplay, and serves to keep things fresh. And since most missions have a 
 midway checkpoint, you'll rarely have to start at the very beginning if you make a mistake.  

 
           Ninja with guns. Finally.      

  Fortunately, the tight controls keep the missions thrilling, even when they exhibit the same objectives. 
 Combat feels especially gratifying in Saints Row 2. Targeting people is quick and precise, so it's 
 easy to hit someone in the body part of your choosing or whip around to nail an attacker who sneaked 
 up behind you. Without a lock-on ability, the firefights are fast and frantic, relying on your 
 quick fingers to mow down the opposition. The lack of any sort of cover mechanic is disappointing, 
 but its absence places the emphasis on aggression. Though your melee attacks are fairly limited, 
 you do have one extremely handy move in your repertoire. You can grab enemies and use them as a 
 human shield if fights are getting too hectic and just toss them away when you're done. The exaggerated 
 physics here are hilarious, letting you hurl people 20 feet in the air, watching their rag-doll 
 bodies wildly overreact to every collision.  

  Another reason the missions are fun throughout is the unrestrained freedom in how you can complete 
 them. Enemies can be killed at any time, using any weapon in your arsenal. For instance, the bosses 
 in the game are all just normal human beings. You can choose to pepper them with your pistol if 
 you choose, slowly witling down their life bar as you carefully dodge their attacks. Or you can 
 just ignore typical video game logic and kill them with a few glorious shots from your rocket launcher. 
 This freedom extends to every element in the game, letting you mow down enemies in whatever manner 
 you see fit. Saints Row 2 fully embraces its sandbox moniker, letting you carve your own path of 
 destruction without any arbitrary strings tying you down.     

   

  Aside from the main missions, there are a bevy of side quests to take part in. These are much more 
 original than the standard missions, so it's easy to get distracted by these for a while and forget 
 about the story. These activities are where Saints Row 2 completely ignores reality and just lets 
 you have some ridiculous fun. Trail Blazer is probably the most chaotic. Here, you'll ride an ATV 
 wearing a flaming, fireproof suit. You get a time bonus for lighting cars and people on fire, so 
 you just set out to cause as much destruction as possible. There's little challenge here (who would 
 oppose a man wearing a flame-drenched suit?) , but lighting the world on fire is utterly satisfying. 
 There are a few other tasks that arent as fun, but overall, the minigames in Saints Row 2 are 
 excellent and imaginative additions that go a long way toward extending your gameplay.  

           Those zombies are dying for brains.      

  The best diversion is the terrifying zombie 
 uprising. You can access this on the big-screen TV in any of your cribs, and it provides some of 
 the most exciting moments in Saints Row 2. As opposed to an emulation of a 2D arcade game from 
 years past, this is a 3D adventure to save your soul from bloodsucking zombies. It takes place 
 in the dilapidated hotel that serves as your headquarters, and you have to mow down wave after 
 wave of these undead creatures. With a limited number of guns and melee weapons that break after 
 a few hits, you'll have to constantly run around to evade the threat of these relentless demons. 
 The slow-moving zombies may not seem too scary at first, but as more fill the screen, this becomes 
 an intense and oftentimes exhilarating experience. Being surrounded by a group of zombies as you 
 try to push them away to resurrect your fallen pals is an awesome divergence from the typical inner 
 city mayhem.  

  If killing zombies alone sounds too frightening, you can play through Saints Row 2 with a friend. 
 The co-op is extremely well implemented here. You can hop in or out at any time ,and there aren't 
 even any chains tethering you to each other. The entire city is open to your crime-wave whims. 
 You can partake in missions and minigames together, or, if you're not feeling very cooperative, 
 one person can tackle missions while the other drives aimlessly around town buying gas stations. 
 There is a little bit of lag and some problems with cars and pedestrians popping in directly in 
 front of you, but the experience of teaming up with a friend makes these slight hiccups easy to 
 ignore. Just make sure you have an understanding with your cooperative pal; one person's violent 
 actions will set cops loose on both players, so it's easy to ruin your buddy's fun if you set the 
 police on him while he's peacefully trying to spray-paint walls. Regardless of your friend's penchant 
 for attracting unwanted attention, it's preferable to the atrocious friendly AI you have to put 
 up with. These morons get stuck on doors and benches, can't figure out how to get in your car, 
 and lag far behind you in firefights. Teaming up with a friend makes the already great campaign 
 even better.  

  Competitive multiplayer isn't quite as engaging as the cooperative portions, but it does provide 
 some excitement in brief bursts. The main mode here is Strong Arm, a team-based affair that pits 
 people in a variety of events. You'll randomly be assigned to many of the activities found in the 
 campaign mode and you have a few minutes to best the other team before you move on to another event. 
 The racing and capture-the-flag variants are fairly standard, but there are unique events that 
 add some life to these matches. Insurance Fraud is quite chaotic. Here, each team tries to get 
 into the most horrific car accident. The best way to play defense is to simply shoot them dead, 
 so it's a matter of quickly getting hit by cars before you're unceremoniously dispatched by your 
 competitors. Strong Arm also utilizes the spray paint mechanic in a novel way. If you successful 
 tag a wall while everyone else is worried about killing each other, you grant bonuses to your team 
 such as more health or causing smoke to pour out of your enemies, making them easier to see. The 
 only other mode is deathmatch, which is just too hectic to offer long-term appeal.  

           Planes probably shouldn't be quite so vertical.      

  The visuals in Saints Row are 
 far from cutting-edge, but at least the experience is smooth both online and off. The frame rate 
 is steady throughout, even in the most frantic firefights. There are also no load times when you 
 enter buildings or drive to a new area, which keeps the game moving at a brisk pace. The physics 
 are as over-the-top as the activities you'll compete in. Characters fly around as if they're on 
 the moon, and they flop about like a fish out of water long after you've killed them. Unfortunately, 
 the radio stations that provide the background music throughout your quest are quite limited. With 
 only a handful of stations, you'll be hearing the same songs over and over again. To make matters 
 worse, there aren't any talk stations, so a part of the comedic appeal is lost. At least the dying 
 screams of your countless victims rings true.  

  Saints Row 2 may not offer a sizable leap in the sandbox genre, but that doesn't diminish its fun. 
 From beginning to end, this is one of the most fun urban chaos games out there. The controls are 
 so tight and the combat so satisfying, you'll frequently find yourself getting distracted from 
 the campaign as you cause terror all over the city. With great cooperative integration, tons of 
 unique activities, and a super cool zombie mode, Saints Row 2 will keep you happily creating havoc 
 for a long time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (189 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: minnesotaviks1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  I don't know how you could hate this game it has a fun single player, great mini games, and awesome 
 multi-player. I mean you get to have the GTA style game play with more gore and weapons. Also how 
 could you hate the mini games with games like spraying poop on buildings, people having sex in 
 your car, being a killer body guard to celebrities, and many more. The multi-player is also very 
 fun with the graffiti power-ups to picking up hoes to get extra points. And if that doesn't make 
 you want to get this game i don't know what will. I'm typing this so i get 800 characters but like 
 I said get this game it's awesome. mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmm 
 mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm 
 mmmmmm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDonOfSaints
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is a great game for people who want to have fun while wanting to play a game that 
 will make them think. The storyline is good and so are the gangs and characters. A good variation 
 between the gangs make each of them stand out but are similar in the fact each gang is totally 
 crazy. Good imagination there. The characters are amazing making each of them humorous in there 
 own way.
  The graphics are alot better than in the first game but the fact people and cars disappeared and 
 reappeared alot made it seem un-realistic which is the only thing that dissappoints me there.
 
  Everything that you have to do in the game, ie missions, activities, diversions... they are all 
 challenging but make you think about the actions you want or have to make. But it isn't that challenging 
 that you get stressed out so much you break the tv or something like that. The challenges are as 
 varied as the gangs are each being completly un suspecting.
  Overall this game is brilliant for any gamer who wants to be put to the test of ruling a whole 
 city without too much difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwekane
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is even better than Saints Row and the best part is you're in the same city. Everything 
 is updated there are 2 new islands and the city is just fun to explore. The customizing is awesome; 
 you can create your guy, buy your clothes and choose the color of them, you can customize your 
 car, and customize your crib. It is awesome; the story line is exciting, the graphics are good, 
 and the weapons are more updated and fun to use. The multiplayer still sucks from the first one 
 but co op isn't too bad. The free roam is better, and the side missions are more fun. What really 
 neat is that there are now planes, boats, helicopters, and motorcycles. You can parachute any time 
 you want so when you jump out of a helicopter at the highest point in the game you won't die. Anyways 
 the game is really fun and I recommend it to anyone that is a fan of the original Saints Row. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jirf
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:34 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2, as you would know (and if you don't know you are an idiot) is the sequel to 2006's 
 'Saints Row'. Saints Row was actually okay as it tried, and succeeded, in being an original game 
 with an unoriginal theme, Saints Row 2 stuffed up, it tries to be funny (sometimes is) but in the 
 same way the first one was. It tries to do the things that if added to GTA 4, GTA 4 would be a 
 masterpiece, yet doesn't have the likeability or gameplay of GTA 4 meaning the features are pointless. 
 Saints Row 2 tries to fit so many minigames and 'distractions' into the game, but by doing this 
 makes every little thing unenjoyable.
  
  The graphics are pretty ordinary for this generation's detailed and intuitive blend, it's colourful, 
 and boring textures on the environment are really dull and nauseating. The characters have almost 
 no detail, the only thing with detail is the clothes and overall the quality of the graphics is 
 atrocious.
  
  The game's in game soundtrack is larger than last time and features many famous singer's and rapper's 
 latest songs making the sound the only likeable thing in this game for me.
  
  The run and gun gameplay is too old and used to be fun anymore as well as the boring old arcade 
 racing (which I thought would have stopped 3 years ago) is still here like a linger of sweaty sock 
 smell haunting my bedroom. The over-the-top and, frankly, dumb cut scenes try to be brief and action 
 packed, but instead are stupid scenes of violence which could have been handled better by the player. 
 The difficulty is so easy I was "smoked" about twice in the whole playthrough and gained about 
 50x respect for gunning down gang bangers, which actually saved lots of time as the cheap arse 
 game designers try to get you to play longer by making you do the minigames to unlock the next 
 mission making me hate this game more.
  
  Saints Row 2 is plainly a bad game, with capital BAD, and shall never be played by me again, in 
 my eyes it was a waste of money and valuable time. Why? You ask me, "Why oh, why, Jirf, did you 
 fully play this game through" "I wanted the Achievements" I reply looking ashamed. I normally would 
 say something like 'this game could have been better if' but I'm not, they should've stopped at 
 one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:19 am PT
Review:  Pros
  
  * A juvenile sense of humor. This might be a con in your books, but I'm all for some dick and fart 
 jokes.
  * A fully fleshed out co-op experience with LOCAL MULTIPLAYER.
  * Over the top cut scenes with plenty of call backs to the original Saints Row.
  * Over the top 
 action.
  
  Cons
  
  * Occasional glitches, some that can get you stuck inside specific places in the environment. For 
 example I got stuck INSIDE some train tracks.
  * No talk radio is a major downer.
  
  
  Saints Row 2 takes place many years after the original.
  In case you didn't play, well at the 
 end you were blown up.
  So in prison they give you plastic surgery which sets up the games pretty extensive character creation 
 mode.
  
  Theres a billion little sliders you can tweak in order to make a totally unique character.
  You 
 be male or female or something in between.
  Can choose from various taunts and compliments, which far as I can see don't do much other then 
 kind of look funny but it's still neat.
  Can pick from a few different voices and you can put male voices on female characters and the reverse 
 is also true, which could make for some humorous moments.
  
  So the story can pretty much be summed up with you're trying to rebuild the Saints and take over 
 the city, which gives you an excuse to jack cars - beat up old ladies and generally cause some 
 mayhem.
  
  The missions for the most part are of a "go here and blow this up" or "go here and kill those guys" 
 nature, but occasionally things get mixed up for some variety. For example in a couple of the Ronin 
 missions theres a neat, sword fighting mini game.
  
  In fact theres a lot of mini games in Saints Row 2.
  Theres kind of two classes of mini games 
 I guess.
  
  Theres activities. Some of which return from the original, for example Insurance Fraud which has 
 you chucking yourself in front of vehicles to reach a specified dollar goal or Mayhem which well... 
 Has you cause Mayhem by pretty much killing everything and blowing up everything within a specified 
 area.
  
  There are also new activities like Fight Club which I guess is pretty self explanatory.
  And 
 Fuzz which casts you as a cop on a "reality" show who solves a variety of crimes in terrifically 
 violent ways. You might blasting a dude with a flame thrower for littering crosses some sort of 
 line, but damn if it wasn't fun.
  
  And then theres diversions, which are just sort of on the spot things you can do.
  Like streaking. 
 If you take off all your clothes and press the button to activate the diversion you can streak 
 and try to get seen by as many people as possible. Or vehicle surfing. Where you stand on top of 
 a car and try to maintain balance as it cruises along it's merry way.
  
  Theres a tonne of things to do, so if you don't like one diversion or activities theres probably 
 another that will suit you.
  
  And all of this is doable Coop.
  Missions. Activities. All of it.
  Some activities are even altered slightly with the addition 
 of another player, which is kind of neat.
  
  The best thing about Co-op is in my mind that it's doable over System Link.
  I'm always raving 
 on about how local Co-op sometimes appears to be a dying thing with a lot of games focusing solely 
 on pleasing the online masses, but it pleases me greatly that Saints Row 2 allows System Link.
 
  
  Now a few things before I wrap up.
  
  The game looks good to me.
  It's no GTAIV, but it's an improvement over the original and it still looks fine.
  
  Theres 
 a tonne of good voice acting and audio work, except perhaps in some of the guns.
  Especially I think the sub-machine guns. They often don't sound so.. Hot. They sound kind of like 
 toy guns, there doesn't feel like theres much impact in those shots.
  
  The controls are pretty solid.
  Cars have added cruise control which can make drive-bys quite 
 a lot easier.
  Some people have complained that the cars feel too floaty. They are a bit. And they're pretty prone 
 to flipping out through the sky in ridiculous fashion. But in my book that's just part of the games 
 charm.
  
  
  The game doesn't take itself seriously, which is great.
  A character might die in the middle of a cut scene, but a great deal of the impact is lost when 
 you're in that cut scene dressed in a hot dog suit. It's pure, unadulterated fun and in a world 
 where many games are going for having a dark world of greys and browns and being all grim and serious 
 Saints Row offers something quite different to all that.
  
  To quote or perhaps merely paraphrase something I read in Australias Official Xbox Magazine - GTA 
 IV raised the bar, Saints Row 2 takes that bar - holds it against it's pelvis and pretends it's 
 a cock. And thats just fine! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REALpyrodark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:51 am PT
Review:  The Good
  I never played the first [because I didn't own a next-gen system till recently] but this is SOOOO 
 much better then the GTAs. You could customize your character in one of the most in depth human 
 customizers I've seen yet in a game, especially a free-world game like this. I've always wanted 
 GTA to do that. For me, that ALONE is a giant step against GTA, and to add to it, for a small price 
 you can Completly REmake your char at any point by going to the plastic surgeon, so just play a 
 white girl for a while then change into an asian guy, ect... Just what ever the fkcu you want.
 
  I love driving in this game and the cars are cool, also nice that ALL cars too can be customized. 
 Not a whole lot, maybe to the degree of San Andreas, but EVERY thing that drives can be customized 
 some how. Including the cop car, the hearse, the Bulldozer, the monster truck. When you finish 
 customizing, take them to your garage and store them, then should they ever be abandoned or destroyed 
 somehow in the world they will reappear there until you specifically tell the garage to remove 
 the vehicle. I also like that the garage works like a vehicle select instead of a physical space 
 to trick into piling cars into like the GTAs. allowing you to store a lot more AND all your cars 
 will be available in every garage you own. That's just One of many things to go on about in this 
 incredible awesome kick-ass game. You can buy a "crib" and upgrade it to "pimped out" status, and 
 then pick a style for your gang, and pick which three cars will be seen in purple patrolling for 
 your Saints, NICE. I've seen influences of several games all mashed into this killer package. GTA 
 of course but also Midnight club, State of emergency, Burnout...
  
  
  The Main reason I prefer this over GTA4 is Rather then trying for an Oscar for greatest screenplay 
 in a videogame, it's all about stress relieving CHAOS. Nothing too clever, too shifty. As Johnny 
 Gat says [in the game] 
  "Why don't we just start here and just shoot all the mothafkcuers that are between us and the money?" 
 
  How great it feels to just go off and shoot stuff, which for many, is what all GTAs have been about.. Except 
 THIS game was created by people who've played GTA long enough to make a nice big list of problems 
 they fixed, and stuff that woulda been cool that they've added. 
  One for instance, tired of dragging around that stupid partner who always gets killed causing you 
 to fail? [Lance Vance]
  Now you can revive them simply by pressing Y on them within like 40 seconds, and btw they don't 
 suck either. Most of the time your the one that accidentally kills them in the chaos, they can 
 usually hold their own pretty well. 
  There's just nothing I've done in this that wasn't fun and addictive. 
  
  The Bad
  The only 
 gripe I've had with it so far is for some reason it keeps freezing up. I looked on google for Saints 
 Row 2 freezing and ppl all over have this problem at different times. 360, PS3 and PC alike all 
 freeze either cause there's too much going on at once, or for overheating, it takes up SO MUCH 
 MEMORY, you'll need a fan on your Xbox for this one. They did just release a patch that reduced 
 the freezing, also a good idea to install it to your hard drive, cause it's REALLY finicky about 
 the disc being clean, one of the reasons it was freezing so often. 
  Just Remember to save often and it's fine. I'm actually not as annoyed to redo missions I've lost 
 from freezing before saving, cause they're actually fun, it doesn't feel like a chore. 
  Another problem to address is sometimes the guns mounted in helicopters or boats don't shoot and 
 your just screwed until you fail, but that may just be cause I cheated those times and those guns 
 didn't react well.
  
  Overall the freezing is mostly over for me now with the new update and the game installed on the 
 drive, I can play for 8 hours straight just editing stuff and hardly getting to the missions until 
 it freezes from being on for 8 hours straight. 
  Save Often, use a fan, and this is the best stress relieving time killer you'll find today, until 
 there's a Saint's Row 3 that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Just to let you know, my original review for Saints Row 2 got removed for some reason, so I won't 
 be going into as much detail as I did in that review. Anyway, pretty much anyone who's looking 
 to buy this game has already played a Grand Theft Auto game before, am I wrong? Grand Theft Auto 
 IV, released about 11 months ago, was much more serious than, say, GTA: San Andreas. Saints Row 
 2 is a lot like its predecessor and San Andreas, making it a fun game to play for any fan of the 
 first game.
  
  You start off in the hospital of a prison, awakening from a five-year-long coma. You can customize 
 your character however you choose. After breaking out of prison with your buddy Carlos, you're 
 set free to do anything you want to. Of course, killing civilians at the plenty is the main form 
 of entertainment, though there are tons of side missions to do. There are various cribs to purchase, 
 and these basically act as safehouses to save clothes and money in. Accessible through the TV in 
 anyone of your safehouses is the mode Zombie Uprising, which basically puts you and two other buddies 
 against zombies using breakable weapons.
  
  The mission structure is pretty basic: drive somewhere, shoot a bunch of people, or escort someone 
 to a specific rendezvous location. However, you can have someone play with you over Xbox Live cooperatively, 
 which is a lot of fun and makes up for the lousy friendly AI you normally have to put up with. 
 In order to do missions, you have to earn enough respect either by completing side missions, having 
 a hostage while driving in a car, or killing rival gang members. Killing gang members is probably 
 the most efficient way for getting respect points, so you can play more missions faster. In terms 
 of multiplayer, there really isn't much to talk about. There's team deathmatch and various team-based 
 game modes that are pretty fun to play, but then again, this is no Call of Duty 4 or anything, 
 either.
  
  The visuals look alright, but they're far from cutting-edge. Often times cars disappear, there 
 are numerous clipping and aliasing issues, the frame rate can take a turn for the worse drastically, 
 and car explosions don't look that great. The voice acting is solid, though a bit goofy and cheesy, 
 and the in-game sound and weapon effects are solid.
  
  Overall, Saints Row 2 is basically a wacky version of Grand Theft Auto IV. Despite my issues with 
 this game, it is very enjoyable and flat-out satisfying to play. I fully recommend Saints Row 2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpunk96
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row 2 (SR2) is the sequel to the successful GTA clone Saint's Row (duh) , so you may be thinking 
 "well the game must be pretty unoriginal"..... your wrong if you think that.
  
  Music - SR2 has a huge collection of different genres, songs, and bands to chose from when it comes 
 to music. You start off with 11 radio stations you can listen to when in any vehicle (Helicopter, Cars, Boats, etc.) 
 or in any one of your cribs (houses you can obtain and/or buy) . Along with the 11 radio stations 
 you can also customize the extra radio station, "My Radio 85.5". You can customize it with of the 
 songs available on the other stations or you can spend your hard earned cash on buying more songs 
 at music stores (called "Scratch That") you'll find all around Stillwater (the City) , which you 
 may then add to the "My Radio" radio station. This is one of my favorite features of this game, being 
 able to create your own playlist of music to listen to, that is. You can also find 50 hidden CDs 
 throughout Stillwater, which will unlock 2 more songs, which you can then listen to on the radio 
 (it also gives you an achievement) . The theme of SR2 is "Hands Up" performed by Lloyd Banks and 
 50 Cent, which I must add I don't mind (even though I don't like rap) . The game includes at least 
 50 different songs, spread across many genres, including songs by the following artists: Jet, My 
 Chemical Romance, The Used, DJ Quik, Beethoven, 50 Cent, Mozart, Avenged Sevenfold, Wolfmother, 
 and more!
  
  
  Graphics - The graphics are nice. There not "HOLY CRAP DID YOU SEE THAT?!?" nice there "Oh yeah, that 
 looks pretty good for Next Gen" nice. They look good, they have a couple of awesome effects, and they 
 get the job done. Don't Believe Me? Boot up the game wait until the sun starts to set and then drive 
 around in a nice shiny new car. Oh yeah their nice and at least there's color, unlike GTA4 were everything 
 either slightly brown or slightly grey, almost as if some wiped their butt with the game. Anyways 
 my point is although the graphics aren't amazing the is nice and colourful, the graphics get the 
 job done.
  
  
  Gameplay - In SR2 you begin by waking up from a coma, at which point you customize your character 
 using the best Character Customization system I've ever seen. You can customize your face, body, 
 build, gender, voice, taunts, personality, fighting style, walking style, everything! You then 
 escape the prison hook up with your old partner in crime (Gat) , and recruit three followers (including 
 the guy you busted out of jail with) to help head your gang. Each follower helps you take down one 
 of the three gangs who have taken over Stillwater. Shaundi helps you with The Sons Of Samedi, Pierce 
 (and Gat) help you with the Ronin, and Carlos (Jail dude) takes on the Brotherhood. Once you've 
 taken down all three gangs, you go after the Corporation Ultor for the big finale! However each 
 mission eats up a bar of respect points and you get these respect points by completing optional 
 missions. I won't go into detail on them, but I will say there all very funny and fun, plus one involves 
 spraying people with crap and that's a epic win in my book!!!
  
  
  Story - I don't want to say much (so as not to spoil much) However I will say the story is well 
 written, the characters are likeable, the story is entertaining, when someone dies, you care, but most 
 of all..... the game's hilarious.
  
  Controls - The controls work very well. The driving works alot better then GTA4. My only complaint, switching 
 weapons is a bit arkward.
  
  OVERALL: 
  
  Music - 5/5
  Graphics - 5/5
  Gameplay - 5/5
  Story - 5/5
  Controls - 5/5
  
  Overall Saint's Row 2 is a game which surpasses 
 it's predecessor, the game it's cloning, and all of it's kind. The only things hold it back are a 
 few minor glitches and a minor problem with the controls. A Near Perfect Game!
  
  Gamespot Score - 10/10
  Real Score - 9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XileLord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 5:24 am PT
Review:  The saints row series has been known for it crazy open world gameplay and saints row 2 just brings 
 that to a whole new level. It really gets you wondering what the developers were thinking when 
 they were creating the activities in this game. You can dress up as a cop and beat the absolute 
 crap out of people, spray human waste everywhere, ride a burning quad with a fire suit on causing 
 chaos to the city and even activities such as drug trafficking, insurance fraud and a fight club. 
 The most interesting aspect of all of this is the fact you get certain rewards that contribute 
 to your character for doing these activities such as, less bullet damage, no fall damage, stronger 
 punches, shock paddles that you can bring people back to life with after you kill them and not 
 only that but respect that adds to your respect meter so you can do the main missions of the game.
 
  
  The main story will take about the average person slightly over twenty plus hours to complete. 
 If you add all the activities and other certain things you have to do such as collecting things 
 around the city and spray walls with graffiti then your looking at a game that will keep you occupied 
 for a very long time. There are even certain missions you can find that are hidden such as the 
 meet with Julius the old gang leader of the saints.
  
  Unless you have played the first saints row game your going to be missing out on feeling you get 
 while playing the main story line so i do recommend renting or buying the first saints row if your 
 going to be playing this one. 
  
  The multiplayer surprisingly is a little weaker in this game with the lack of the game modes that 
 were featured in saints row one and lack of gangs that you could join and create. However even 
 though the multiplayer is a little weaker, the main game itself is a hell of a lot stronger. The 
 graphics are colorful and unique and there are literally tons of weapons in this game to play around 
 with. You can fly planes, drive boats, cars and even bikes. Hell even a UFO spaceship if you put 
 in the cheat. 
  
  Customization is top notch as you can customize your gangs looks and cars they drive around. Customization 
 for your character is even better as you can choose your looks, voice, walk, emotes and fighting 
 styles. You can intimidate people and they will attack you or you can give them compliments to 
 get a response. Basically you can interact with every character in the game world but only slightly. 
 
  
  You can parachute from planes or just fly them around and destroy things. Now you can't mention 
 saints row 2 without GTA IV but how this game scored lower is beyond me. This game is everything 
 that GTA IV isn't and more. Besides the physics and graphics all GTA IV has to offer is a long 
 story line and nothing after but a expansion pack and a few short activities not to mention annoying 
 phone calls every couple of minutes. Saints row 2 is a much longer and funner game overall.
  
  Saints row 2 is a fantastic experience for any gamer looking to roam free around a city destroying 
 things. So go do yourself a favor and at very least rent this game because i promise you won't 
 regret it.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fezilla
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 10:16 pm PT
Review:  The Saint's Row series often gets passed off as a cheap GTA clone, and this isn't entirely undeserving. 
 However, it's an AWESOME GTA clone.
  
  And because of that, I'll be comparing it mostly to GTAIV, as IMO that's the pinnacle of the GTA 
 series and plus it's the only next-gen GTA game. So without further ado:
  
  The story of this game, IMO, is miles ahead of GTAIV. It's not emotionally gripping or captivating, 
 but that's because unlike GTA, it didn't try and fail miserably. The story is simple, immature, 
 and written by someone with an overactive Id psyche.
  
  Pretty much, you're in a gang, and **** anyone who gets in your way. That's the story in a nutshell. 
 Keep in mind at the end, Gat sits in the middle of a bridge in a fort of emptied cars, "killing 
 cops." How this gang has not been destroyed by the US Army or something is beyond me.
  
  But that's the pleasure of the game, IMHO. It doesn't try so hard that it falls on its face. And 
 that's with the story and game both. The game mechanics aren't quite as tightened as GTA, and that 
 makes for a better experience, honestly. Shooting isn't what I'd call clumsy, it's less streamlined. 
 And that's probably because there's no way to lock onto your enemy's chest and tilt the analog 
 stick up to get headshot after headshot, a la GTA. The driving is beyond defying phsyics. I'm pretty 
 sure if you take a hard right turn at a 90 degree angle while going 70 miles an hour, you're going 
 to flip your car and die. But powerslide says to hell with you, physics.
  
  The weapons in the game are varied and exciting, although I'd take some credit away as the higher-tier 
 weapons are WAY over-powered. Assault rifles fit for a SWAT team makes gang wars REALLY easy. As 
 do automatic pistols, SMGs, and semi-automatic shotguns. Which, going with the easiness factor 
 is a drawback too for boss fights. Out of all the boss fights there was only one that gave me trouble, 
 and I spent all of 20 minutes getting through it.
  
  Graphically, it's not as impressive GTA. I mean, I can excuse it because the game, like GTA, gives 
 you a huge, fully expansive city to explore and everything looks pretty damn good overall, it's 
 just not the graphical juggernaut that GTA is.
  
  Of course, the graphics don't really bother you once you realized there's about a billion times 
 as much content in Saint's Row. Between the long list of missions (that are actually more varied 
 than "chase someone down, break into a crackhouse, or chase someone down THEN break into a crackhouse) , 
 the long list of diversions/activities and the in-depth character customization, the game has a 
 pretty good amount of content to explore.
  
  Voice acting and sound effects are pretty up to par. Nothing really spectacular, but it's not bad 
 or even mediocre. It's good, not great.
  
  Another knock on it would be the multiplayer. It's got pretty good multiplayer, but nothing we 
 haven't seen and hasn't been done better by its competition. The gameplay engine just doesn't click 
 as well when you mix other human beings into the mix.
  
  So yeah, gamespot pretty much it it on the head calling the game "crass, immature and fun" I believe 
 was the description. It's not a game that'll make you think for so much as one second, and you 
 might even get tired of all the cliche pot references, but the game is still damn fun to play through. 
 It's got its flaws just like any other game, but I'd call this easily one of the best sandbox titles 
 to come around in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smokescreened84
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  I remember when games used to be about the fun, not the graphics, not the frame rate, not the fancy 
 nonsense like this anti-alising, whatever that is, and what console's better, but just the sheer 
 fun of gaming. Slot in a game, begin playing and enjoy yourself. It seems to be a dying art these 
 days.
  
  Before I do the main body of the review, I'll say this for sandbox games, if they're done right 
 they can be most fun you can have with a video game. GTA4 failed in that area, beautiful graphics, 
 great controls, good start, but man was it boring, so boring that I was dozing off while driving. 
 So Saint's Row 2 was a very nice surprise because it recaptured everything that I love about video 
 gaming - the sheer guilty fun.
  
  Okay you probably know all the basics by now, Saint's Row 2 is a sequel to Saint's Row 1, one of 
 the first release games I guess on the 360 and out before GTA4 was. The first game was fun, silly, 
 crass and never took itself seriously - shame it didn't have a gender choice, and the ending was 
 really good.
  Now SR2 is essentially SR1 with more fun, a gender choice and more fun than any GTA game in the 
 past has ever had. And I've played them all!
  
  So let's do the main body:
  
  It's five years after the events of SR1, you've been in a coma the entire time and life's moved 
 on around you. Upon creating your character - first sandbox game to ever allow for a female option 
 for the player at that - you break out of the prison you've been in for the last five years with 
 a devotee of the Saints.
  Upon escape you're on your own, you can begin the missions if you wish or you can explore and see 
 some of the changes and additions made to Stilwater. Wait till you've come across the silly, aside 
 from the boring racing that's always in this genre, mini games. I rather enjoyed the Septic Avenger 
 mini game, immature, sily, stupid jokes and so hard to take seriously, but oh so much fun.
  
  The customisation options are pretty good, not as great as they could have been since the height 
 slider was removed due to problems the developers mentioned finding when it came to how the main 
 character was seen by the other characters, and some of the clothing choices can be bland and needing 
 more unorthadox clothing, but you do get a good selection and it can be fun to be going on a killing 
 frenzy in the game while wearing little more than your underwear, or nothing at all.
  Maybe a third one, if one does come out, will have more options and is evne more fun, hope so.
 
  
  Now the game play is the basic sandbox idea, you likely know it by now. You earn money from missions 
 and terrorities once you begin earning them, the main missions are the usual kind of thing, though 
 I have to admit to really enjoying them, espeically the Brotherhood missions - what's not to like 
 about stealing some uranium and racing to a tattoo palour, with the result being that the big bad 
 of the gang gets a nice tattoo burn?
  Some things are a little odd, the sword fighting in the Ronin missions doesn't quite fit in, but 
 I supposed it's understandable when you consider the idea of the Ronin and the Code of the Samurai. 
 Also the game is pretty short once you begin the missions, but that happens with all sandbox games. 
 Maybe one day a sandbox game will come out that has new gangs and enemies appear after the previous 
 ones are destroyed, that would be nice.
  
  It's not a perfect game by any means, there are the graphics hounds who believe that the graphics 
 of the SR series is lacking, but I like them, they get the job done and they're really quite nicely 
 done.
  You can customise the Saint's after you get the headquarters, but it's not as extensive as it is 
 for the main character. But it can be fun to have your gang looking all 80s or like ninjas.
  
  So there's really not a lot to say that hasn't been said before, the game has it's flaws, but 
 not as many as people think. The SR series is what the GTA series used to be before it began to 
 become stale and eventually realistic, it's fun, crass, rude, silly, stupid and at times insulting 
 in such a way that you can't help but laugh and agree.
  This is what gaming is about, not fancy graphics, not big guns, not anti-alising and frame rates 
 and all that pointless rubbish, but sheer, pure, guilty fun that has you coming back for more.
 
  
  Leave real life to real life, go over to the fun side.*cue heavy breathing and some tacky father 
 line nonsense* Feel the fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TFrieden0928
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Way back in 2006, The original Saints Row delivered a tried and done experience that softened up 
 the wait for Grand Theft Auto IV. Now, Since Volition has gotten time to play around with the 360 
 and PS3's capabilities, Saints Row 2 turns out to be better and more developed than the first game. 
 This is the game they always wanted to build. Its a alotta steps behind GTA IV, but it has that 
 same vibe in San Andreas that GTA IV was missing. The game uses the original "been there done that 
 "concepts of previous Open Sandbox games, and the developers have fleshed it out to its extreme. 
 Its not light years ahead of the original Saints Row, but its a whole lot better in my perspective. 
 Basicly, the same game you played in 2006 is here. It has the same feeling and the same exact concepts 
 with slight enhancements. But that isn't a bad thing, deju vu may be all over the place, but its 
 nice to be reminded of the things we love about these type of games. Today, most developers try 
 to make mature adult games with a purpose or message, that is all good, but some days its just 
 better to go off in the streets like a maniac, and Saints Row 2 lets you do that. In my opinion, 
 GTA IV was more of a confined experience, Saints Row lets you express yourself and has a whole 
 lot to offer. In scope, Rockstar's game is larger and more detailed, and has a whole lot to see. 
 But other than that, there is nothing much to do. On the flip side, Saints Row 2's main goal is 
 indulge you into the experience and Volition has simply done that. The game doesn't care about 
 being immature and bitter. Some of the events may seem childish or the characters try to hard to 
 be cool, but that is clearly intended, so in a way, the game's flaws is some of its true highlights.
 
  
  Once again, You will find yourself in the busy streets of Stillwater. The city has changed dramatically 
 and its been rennovated in a more peaceful utopia. But still, the underground is run by vicious 
 gang lords seeking to run the city, and like the first game you will battle it out to see who is 
 true owner of Stillwater. Fans of the first game will be happy to see appearances by previous characters, 
 and know that this the Direct sequel to a fantastic storyline. All the loose ends left at the end 
 of Saints Row are tied up in the opening events of SR2. People that you learned to love and trust 
 have become cruel and selfish, and the game teaches you that some of your closest friends can envy 
 the most. Those that haven't played the original should do so, because it would make your understanding 
 of the second game so much clearer, but it isn't nessacary but its highly recommended. At the end 
 of Saints Row, You get blown up on ship and you are sent to Jail, there you slept in a coma and 
 once you wake up you learn that you had suffered severe damage to all parts of your body, and your 
 genitals are floating somewhere in the ocean. This sets up the character creation. Now you have 
 the option to become a female, and new features such as walking styles and voices have been added. 
 Character Customation is one of the biggest highlights of the game, its the most advanced and largest 
 system I've seen in this genre. I've fleshed out my character so much that I have outfits in real 
 life that look exactly like the ones in the game. Once you tidied yourself to your tastes, you 
 meet a Latino named Carlos, it seems he got stabbed on purpose so he can meet you and you learn 
 that he is here to bust you out. You break out of jail and after a long boatride you learn that 
 the city and the Saints have gone under massive changes. I'm not going to say too much to spoil 
 anything but just know that you will be suprised about how things turned out, and excited of what 
 events will take place next. 
  
  The mission system plays the same exact way it did in 2006, you need to earn respect in order to 
 play missions. The concept still works, but its still a problem that was annoying in the first 
 game. But to justify, Volition has added way more activities to ease the tension. New Activites 
 add variety and squash boredom in between main missions but usually they are half baked and tedious 
 that you just want to advance the story. The incorporation of these activities are a great idea 
 but if they had a little more depth to them, they could of ended up as great side missions. Other 
 than that, they stand as filler. Main Missions are a real treat though, the wackiness from San 
 Andreas is present, but the game does has its more serious moments. Usually, Saints Row offers 
 hilarity in all sorts, but there a ton of cheesy yet rewarding moments. GTA IV settled on mature 
 themes, Saints Row 2 is the complete opposite. You will see major stereotypes, guys with katannas 
 on motorcycles, drug moms, excessive gangbanging, unessacary swearing and tons and tons of "try 
 to be cool" moments. Yes, Saints Row is weird, but all of it is quite rewarding. 
  
  The Core Gameplay is rather quite Old School for this Genre. Much of the same elements from past 
 Grand Theft Auto titles and the original are displayed and used up to its extent. You can fly helicopters, 
 cruise on boats, ride motorcycles, pretty much anything that is driveable you can take it for a 
 spin, and there is the random tagging and collectable goodies that you can find. Stunt Jumps Galore, 
 Missons and Activities, and the fact that you can roam around and wreck havok anytime you want. 
 It's safe to say that Saints Row 2 has learned and borrowed a lot from its cousins. Most of these 
 things were absent in the original, but the ideas/content is not new, it was never implemented 
 in the series inception. But there some things that Saints Row 2 does that no other game in the 
 genre has done. The basic gunplay is rather simple but effective, and you have the ability to dual 
 wield weapons, but the whole system can't be taken seriously, and driving is tight and responsive 
 as how it should be. In detail, there is also a new cruise system that lets the vehicle ride on 
 its current speed, and you only can steer with the left joystick. This feature lets you ride in 
 style that other gangster type games didn't offer. This is and many other things are inventive. 
 You also have the ability to customize your gang along with your cribs and vehicles which no other 
 game does as good. The begining events is rather decent, and luckily the game picks up so that 
 the experience isn't ruined. Most of the missions are fun, but sometimes a tad bit repetitive and 
 the story is highly memorable. But gameplay at its core is extremely fun even though that its more 
 of a "been that seen that kind" of feeling.
  
  As for the Audio/Visual department, Saints Row 2 does fairly well. Although the games graphics 
 is below average compared to today's standards, and slightly improved over 2006's game, they are 
 easily forgettable. The game world is bland and uninspired but designed decently enough to keep 
 it from being repetetive. The character models are decent too, but their facial expressions are 
 really good. Overall, its just a mess, the textures look muddy, the lighting is basic, and the 
 animations are stiffy. Thats why Saints Row 2 's Audio outshines the Visuals. A few smash hits 
 play on the radio from bands like Taking Back Sunday and artists like Yung Joc, Nas, and Beanie 
 Segul make the soundtrack memorable, but the game should offer a lot more songs. You still have 
 the ability to purchase cds and such to play your own playlist but like I said, it needs more content. 
 The voicework is pretty good, and most of the old voices are here.
  
  In conclusion, Saint Row 2 should be given a chance. Its one of those games were you end up playing 
 but you don't need. Unless you've been waiting for this game, most likely if your a fan or if you 
 love these type of games or you've been dying to find out whats happened to you and Stillwater. 
 This is the game for you. But others won't be turned out, and I wasn't impressed by anything the 
 game offered, Saints Row is just plain fun, and its a game that doesn't try to be serious but its 
 mature just enough. Its a really good game that shouldn't be overlooked but its not satisfying 
 enough to contend with the big dogs, but that wasn't Volition's intention.
  
  Final Score 8/10
  
  *Sub Scores are out of 10
  
  Graphics-7.0, SR 2's graphics are just 
 plain decent, it looks like it exists in 2006, and from the game's previews its just disapointing. 
 Animations are horrible, but thankfully the facial expressions are spot on.
  
  Sound-8.5, The soundtrack is jamming, and the voicework is really good.
  
  Controls-9.0, Vehicles 
 handle well,
  
  Gameplay- 9.0, theres a lot of content to go around, and many things to do. Missions come in variety 
 and are fun, activites add a little depth, and you still got hidden cds and stunt jumps, tags, 
 and a crapload of customation options. Going crazy in the streets feels good too.
  
  Story-8.5, lots of suprises, returning characters, cool cutscenes, and hilarity throughout.
  
 
  Fun Factor-8.25
  
  Replay Value- Moderate
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patzcool
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Saints row 2 is the most fun game ive played in a long time. i cant get enough of it its crazy. 
 the co-op is great the activities are insane, and the main missions are a blast! you really dont 
 need to play the first saints row to know the story but its better if you do. the custimization 
 is endless you can be whoever you want! I do actually enjoy the multiplayer i know some people 
 do not but i think its great. i really haven't played GTA 4 but I bet its not as fun as this. i 
 know that game has better graphics but its alright you really wont mid cause they look nice in 
 this game anyways. If you dont have this game go pick it up you will become addicted to it. I just 
 think everyone should at least give it a chance. this will be one that you will play for quite 
 a while and not get tired of. THANKS FOR READING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VivaKatimari
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is a GTA clone out there but this GTA clone is actually very fun. I'm going to break 
 my review down into different Graphics, Sound, Game play, Story, Lasting Appeal and Fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 4:30 am PT
Review:  With GTA IV, Rockstar North chose to stray away from the sillier themes of the franchise's earlier 
 iterations in favor of a more gritty, realistic narrative setting. Saints Row 2 essentially takes 
 the opposite route, opting to expand on the more outrageous and humorous aspects of the GTA series. 
 The result is a game filled with hilarious mini-games and over-the-top cutscenes, not to mention 
 framerate-chugging explosive action.
  
  Players have a lot of freedom in terms of determining what their characters look like and what 
 types of activities they want to engage in. In addition to a meaty storyline, the game offers a 
 mind-numbing number of side missions to partake in. In fact, that's one of my main gripes about 
 the game: while the side-missions are almost all unique and fun to play, Saints Row 2 piles on 
 too much of a good thing by offering two sets of pretty much every activity. Since there are six 
 levels for each individual activity, it was a chore to complete all of them twice for the achievements.
 
  
  That said, both the main story missions and the tertiary activities were all very well-designed 
 and a blast to beat, especially since Saints Row 2 allows players to complete the entire game cooperatively. 
 For a sandbox game this enormous and free-wheeling, full co-op is an impressive achievement and 
 one that GTA IV didn't even offer (since co-op might be out-of-place for the realistic single-player 
 experience R* was going for) .
  
  And that's the key. For all its similarities and homages to GTA, Saints Row 2 provides an experience 
 that its forebearer doesn't, because it isn't afraid to sacrifice realism for fun. So if you're 
 itching for something more lighthearted and frankly... fun than GTA IV, Saints Row 2 is your game.
 
  
  Be warned though: Saints Row 2 suffers from constant freezing issues that will force you to restart 
 your console every time. This can be particularly head-aching when playing with a co-op partner. 
 But regardless of its technical shortcomings, Saints Row 2 is a thoroughly entertaining experience 
 with diverse missions, exciting gameplay, and some of the most outrageous cutscenes your eyeballs 
 will ever lay eyes on. Add in the ability to play with a buddy, and it's tough not to recommend 
 this game despite its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedrsad
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 2:04 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game coming back from its mediocre predecessor to bring an intense battle 
 for the streets. From the time you wake up from the coma, till you take back the streets, Saints 
 Row 2 had me hooked the hole way. And man was it a ride! The game-play has improved and the storyline 
 has been revamped and improved far more than I had expected. Not much to say about this game since 
 it isn't a mind-blowing revolution in gaming, but I thoroughly liked this game. Much like Grand 
 Theft Auto 4, this is a game designed for the user to interact with the games world, its items, 
 and the separate missions. I would never buy a game like this just for the simple fact that I played 
 it for two weeks and was completely done with it. Saints Row 2 is just one of those games that's 
 good for story and initial game-play, but gets so boring you want your money back. This game is 
 a solid rental, that will keep your faith in the franchise and in hopes of a 3rd!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conman344
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Saints row 2 was a very fun game and i loved to customize the characters. I loved the new activities 
 to do around the city. i love the new still water. i really enjoyed that your character finally 
 talks instead of just nodding. This game was kinda easy to me, but this game had got me entertained 
 for a long time. i like how they put humor into this game and not make it too serious like GTA. 
 the only thing that sucked were the AI were retarded and the glitches got annoying. Also the graphics 
 of the game are decent. The story line was kinda the same as the first where you have to fight 
 three gangs and take over stillwater. the only difference was that instead of playing the right 
 hand man your playing as the big boss. I wished the game would let you make your own gang colors. 
 I highly recommend this game to anyone becasue it just plain fun and anyone would have fun playing 
 this game. There is just so much to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killswitch8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I have been a sandbox player for ages, and Saints Row 2 is the best of the best next to GTAIII. 
 This was a GTAIV killer from the start. This game makes me feel like volition made this series 
 for the gamer. Not until now have I began experience the full game. The game beats the hell out 
 of the first saints row in my opinion. While all of the GTA fanatics deeming this GTA knockoff, 
 I can understand to an extent. The truth is Saints Row 1 & 2 are unique in their own sense. The 
 activities are fun and challenging. The co-op is amazingly fun! The multiplayer is full of variety. 
 The story line really picks up from the first saints row smoothly. The lasting appeal is still 
 there months after its release. The character and veichle customization is innovative. There are 
 some glitches and bugs, but they won't keep you from playing. I'm not sure what the third one will 
 be like, but I have full confidence in volition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Filthcakes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I bought Grand Theft Auto IV in May, and I liked it at first. Of course I thought the city was 
 a little drab, everything being brown and gray, but I had some fun beating on random civilians. 
 As I progressed through the game, the missions kept repeating, only a few variables changing. A 
 different talking head, a car chase at a different time, or no chase at all. Drive to point A, 
 kill guys, money. That's the whole game.
  
  Of course the narrative of it is good, but the rest of the game is just boring. Not much to do 
 besides kill goons and beat on civilians. You can listen to the radio and watch TV, but really, 
 who wants to do that? Don't get me started on the dates, tedious wastes. Characters are well-rounded 
 and deep, voices acting is excellent, but that's where the good ends. Anyway, this is where Saint's 
 Row 2 comes in. It swoops in on a rope wearing a traffic cone on its head and wearing a floral 
 bra.
  
  This is a game that offers more than two colors, entertaining missions, memorable characters and 
 story, and a huge variety of side activities. You can be a mock police officer and beat the life 
 out of perps for a television show, drive an ATV through a city while on fire, and all these activities 
 give you cash and bonuses. Missions entail fighting a Japanese thug in a sword fight, and fighting 
 off an army of gangsters while baked. Great fun.
  
  Then we have the weapons, there are about 4 of every gun and around 15 different melee weapons, 
 which is impressive by any standards. Chainsaws, katanas, miniguns, flamethrows, assault rifles, 
 automatic shotguns, and all that jazz. The characters may not be as complex (Or dreary) as GTA's, 
 but they still leave a fresh mark on your mind.
  
  In short, GTA is fun to an extent, but Saint's Row takes that barrier, snaps it over its knee, 
 and continues for a mile and half down fun street. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rob690532
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 3:09 am PT
Review:  Ok, before I get started let me just say this is my first serious review so don't be too harsh 
 on me if I make mistakes, ok? Good. Ok lets get started...
  
  GTA IV. Undoubtedly the best in the series so far, even surpassing the standards GTA Sanandreas 
 set, a bit serious, but still a great game. And then theres Saints Row 2. A full on, in your face, 
 virtual playground of fun and laughter that will keep you playing for hours on end.
  
  Lets start with the user interface. GTA IV, nope, nothing wrong atal with the user interface, that 
 is until Saints Row 2 came along. In Saints Row 2, the simple fact is, you actually always hijack 
 the car you mean to unlike GTA e. g. wanting to jack a turismo only to find yourself seconds later 
 sat on a moped (can't put **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROBBYBEAR1985
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:33 am PT
Review:  I honestly struggle to think of something good about this game. I think about this a lot, mostly 
 because the review score given to this game by GameSpot and GS's Users confuses the hell out of 
 me. I even see posts about this game on the forum stating how people wish GTA's story was more 
 like this game's, I couldn't disagree with this more.
  
  First flaw that was noticed was the control scheme which although not terrible just rubbed me the 
 wrong way and this was in everything I was doing from driving to running and shooting. Second and 
 this is one of the worst parts of this game is the driving WOW! Even GTA's driving is not good 
 but at least you can get the hang of it fairly quickly. In the about 10 hours I played SR2 I never 
 got the hang of the driving and wrecked every vehicle type in the game. Four door cars drive like 
 crap but that is to be expected but when I jump in the fake Lambo'Ferrari looking vehicle and it 
 just feels like the other crap cars but faster I get very frustrated. If your going to force the 
 player to drive a lot at least put some time in on the driving mechanics PLEASE.
  
  third major flaw: Bugs and glitches! In one two hour sitting of trying to get into this game I 
 had it freeze on me 3 times during major story line missions causing me to have shut down my 360 
 every time. Maybe people who play crap games consistently do not see that as a big deal but to 
 me it a source of major frustration. This is not counting other major glitches and bugs while being 
 able to actually play the game.
  
  Finally the story was seriously complete crap. Goofy and as unrealistic as could get. Every time 
 that Asian dude opened his mouth I wanted to hit something, dialogue is full of wannabe tough guy 
 cliches, with just a huge use of unwarranted cursing. This is B movie style trash all the way. 
 
  
  If I had to compare this game to others and something from of different media I would say:
  
 
  SR2 = the movie "Crank" compared to GTAIV = GoodFellas.
  Garbage Classic
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saladdodger163
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  pros: more actvities, really fun, good story, more vehicles, awsome co-op, great controls
  cons: bad graphics, so-so multiplayer, soundtrack
  
  i hate this gta comparison crap i hope 
 this game doesnt have to live in the shadow of gta forever this is not gta not as detailed not 
 as good storywise not as fun and overall just not as good BUT this is very good one of the best 
 parts are activities they are crazy old favorites are back like escort and insurance fraud but 
 new ones that are great are here like septic avenger where you spray everyone with poop and fuzz 
 wich is so good you use chainsaws on litterers and fame throwers on protestors its just fun the 
 first only had cars and nothing else this one has motor cycles, planes, helicopters, and boats 
 the story gos like this after your boat explodes in the first one you awake from a coma and need 
 plastic surgery so you dont look ugly (great idea right) the creator is very deep this time you 
 can play as a woman and after creating a guy you find the saints are no longer around you have 
 to rebuild them your guy fortunatley does alot more talking this time around anywqay onto the bad 
 this game actually looks worse than the first i dont know how volition did this but they did also 
 not a verygood track list and no talk radio the multiplayer takes forever to get started and after 
 that isnt that good but the co-op multi player rocks its funny but not as funny as other games 
 you should get this game because its just fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Sous
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 Is In My Honest Opinion One Of The Gems Of The 2008 Season Of Game Releases. I Personally 
 Saw This Game As Looking Stupid, Dim-Plotted, And Overall Really Weak By The Poor Commercials And 
 Trailers But Boy Was I Wrong. Coming From a Guy Who Lined Up At Midnight For GTA IV And Played 
 That Game Non Stop From Front To Finish, Its Hard To Say And Very Unrealistic To Say It Was All 
 Worse Than Saints (Minus Graphics Which GTA Did Very Well) But It Was. Saints Row 2 Has A Great 
 Plotline. Sure Its Unrealistic At Times, But A Worthy Sacrifice For A Super Fun Gaming Experience. 
 With The Three Rival Gangs, The ULTOR Corporation, And All The Nifty Side Tasks On The Side, Saints 
 Row 2 Has So Much Depth, Play Time, And Fun Behind It That I Have To Recommend This Game To Every 
 Gamer Out There. The One Issue I Had With The Game Was In Some Aeas The Graphics Are Stellar, In 
 Others Sub Par, But There Is Also Some Times Where The Graphics Seem To Choppy (This Is Easily 
 Not A Factor At All Once Your Immersed Into The Game Itself) . To Note Specifically Where Saints 
 Really Mangles And Covers GTA IV In Cement Are The Following Areas: Customization, Side Tasks, 
 Variety, Plotline, And The Fun Factor. Being Able To Customize The Player To Look Like You Or Your 
 Dream Gangster (Be You Male Or Female) Is Already Making You Want To Play The Game More Than Being 
 The Typical GTA Charachter (Lets Play As A Bum Who Needs To Conqure The City And Soon The World 
 In Order To Prove His Value To No One Who Matters) . Saints Plot Is Just Better. Your Awake From 
 A Coma And Discover The Empire You Once Had Has Been Destroyed By Invading Gangs, Crooked Cops, 
 Shady Investors, And Massive Corporations. This To Me Is More Fun That A Guy Who For No Real Reason 
 Decideds To Run Show In A City He Knows Nothing About. The Last Two Parts Of My Better Than GTA 
 IV Rant Go Side By Side. The Overall Fun Factor Of This Game Is Phenominal. A Key Reason Of This 
 Is The Amazing Arsenal of Side Tasks. You Can Race, You Can Deal, You Can Instigate Fraud, You 
 Can Join Fight Club, You Can Run The Chop Shop, You Can Take Hit Jobs, And The List Goes On. Words 
 Of Advice, This Game Will Not Disapoint. I Hope You All Consider The Features Before You Buy GTA 
 Over Saints Just Because It Is GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dim2199
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing straight, the original Saints Row is one of the best games on this generation. 
 It successfully kicked GTA in the ass by having a great single player campaign and in my opinion, 
 the greatest multiplayer ever created.
  
  So yes, I had very high expectations for Saints Row 2. Unfortunately, the game does not improve 
 much over the original. Not only that, it also has an endless list of glitches and stripped multiplayer. 
 Add in the dated graphics, which have not been improved at all. Is the game still good? Yes. Let 
 me explain why:
  
  The campaign in Saints Row 2 is a continuation of the original campaign. The storyline is far improved, 
 making it actually interesting and sporting a cast of likable characters. Although cheesy, it does 
 a good job of keeping the player in the game. If you are not playing the story, there is a nice 
 variety of activities to complete. Completing missions and activities will reward the player by 
 unlocking various upgrades, including new guns and vehicles. 
  
  Also adding to the fun factor is the gang factor. You are the ruler of the Third Street Saints 
 gang and it is up to you to take over the whole island of Stillwater. In the game menu, the player 
 can view the map, showing how the area is split up between the gangs.
  
  The soundtrack is surprisingly excellent, and features plenty of famous and great underground songs. 
 My personal favorite station was the 80's station, but I also spent time listening to a custom 
 radio station, which is a neat addition carrying over from the original.
  
  One major improvement is the addition of co-op gameplay. It has a great set up, allowing you to 
 turn privacy settings on, preventing people outside of your friends list from joining. Every single 
 mission and activity can be done cooperately, and the game keeps track of what missions you played 
 in your friends campaign if you wish to skip that part while playing your own campaign.
  
  Thats about all I've got to say. I should also add that the game now features different difficulties 
 to choose from. I suggest playing on easy to limit the frustration from the glitches. If you enjoyed 
 the original Saints Row, don't hesitate to purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevesumpton86
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  having played gta 4 i was wary of saints row 2 seeing as the first had no planes or helicopters 
 but i absolutely love this game i have been playing this game for 60 hours so far and im not even 
 slightly bored of it (in comparison to 27 hours until the total boredom of gta 4) the activities 
 are fun and challenging and the diversions are hilarious (car surfing anyone) when the campaign 
 (which is admittedly relatively short) is complete then you can start the diversions, activities, 
 co-op and if you are a completist tags, cd's and achievements the 1000 points are fairly difficult 
 to get on this game but not overly difficult all in all this game is worthy of your cash the activities 
 and diversions plus the collectibles will take average gamers 50-100 hours to attain this game 
 will thrill you and will not leave you bored playing darts with your fat pathetic east european 
 cousin...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormtrooper377
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Lets start out with the problems of this game POWER NOTE STYLE
  ---allies will tag into walls and the AI is like a drunken penguin
  ---some missions will make 
 you angry to the point of eating G. Bush
  ---the vehicle can go from smoking to BOOM instantly
  
  Holy crap this game is so good that 
 i cant think of anything else.
  Well lets do the pros.
  ---Great story and likable characters
  ---Fluid driving system without being whimsical
  ---The 
 minigame's are forced on you in between mission, but that keeps you from not exploring every good 
 thing about the game
  ---You will never find yourself saying, crap now i have to start over and thats a big thing to 
 me
  ---You can really lose respect which is the fuel of your gang. Respect is needed to be able to 
 do the next mission in the game
  
  And overall this game takes my game of the year, its new and may be alot like GTA4, but it brings 
 back the clowny silliness GTA used to have and thats something that should stand out to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nypd66
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:34 am PT
Review:  Saints row 2 is a good game but nothing like the first saints row. The cutscenes are more gruesome 
 in this game. The story of the game is short and filled with gang violence but I was not as addicted 
 to this game as much as the first saints row. I have been playing this one a lot but I only play 
 the story mode. The online in this game is nothing like the first. There is no more gang matches 
 on this one which disappointed me and my friends. The online is to short and fast. The new strong 
 arm feature is not the best thing in the world. The whole game is not as great as the first one. 
 I dont know why but everybody who reviews it on other websites keep on comparing it to GTA and 
 it is not supposed to be like GTA at all. It is a new fresh take on the sandbox genre. Don't buy 
 it cause it's a rip off of GTA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Well what can I say about this game. When you first start to play it you see that it is very similar 
 to another small game that came out about a month or so before it. Obviously this is a clone of 
 GTA with the exception that you lead a gang. Whereas GTA is more of an individual game in this 
 game you can call on your gang members to help you out (well thats after you progress through the 
 game for a bit) . The graphics here are pretty good as are the music. The game play like the original 
 leave some things for desire. I have to say that this is a first xbox 360 that actually froze on 
 me and not just one time. I would say that it froze around ten or more times on me mostly where 
 there are a lot of things going on in the screen. You can chose what your gangster looks like and 
 then take it from there. The game tries to pick up where the original left off with only one real 
 original character returning this time. You have to build up your gang again and you take on three 
 gangs while you do it. You have to build up your respect to do the main missions and that involves 
 side quests. Again I am assuming that you have played this game before so you know what those side 
 quests are. They are fun but after awhile they become too hard and that becomes unfun. The game 
 is actually not that hard and the ending is not so good. This game is worth a buy if you enjoyed 
 GTA and miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abassler
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Should I mentioned GTA or not?
  Fine Ok..
  GTA. There I'm done This game isn't GTA 4 it's more like GTA 3 or Vice City But where Grand Theft 
 Auto Then began the decent into a more realistic world, Saints Row 2 stays firmly in the land where 
 riding around in a Flaming ATV running over pedestrians and crashing into incoming traffic while 
 listening to Wagner's "Ride of the Valkyries" , is just another Tuesday. 
  
  It's tremendous fun dressing in silly costume and wrecking havoc around a city that at first glance 
 appears to resemble a living breathing city. My costume of choice a purple thong one piece, Checkered 
 knee high stockings, a gold and purple gladiator helmet and gold gladiator sandals. Boobus Maximus 
 then terrorized the city by ripping a stop sign out of the ground and beating three civilians that 
 were holding up signs that read stop the violence.
  Laughing through all 56 story missions and a spattering of side quest. 
  
  The game controls 
 well and the graphic are good but not great not some bland as well as some missing textures but 
 often I thought it looked like the style it was going for a city of big colorful shapes like a 
 cartoon instead of a more realistic look. I realize that this is because of the limitations of 
 the Volition 's engine, it's just happens to work well in its favor. The sound is pretty good although 
 I didn't care much for the musical choices and there aren't any talk radio stations. Enemy AI is 
 pretty stupid at least on Normal, you will occasionally be done in by the big enemy numbers or 
 your own ineptitude but the fun remains high. 
  
  There are glitches aplenty including game killing random freezes which I encountered three times 
 in a 45 hour play-though. The oddest thing about the game is that it has a city populated with 
 people who apparently never park there cars, which at times leaves you running a good distance 
 before a driver will pop up leaving the city feeling empty. Just like your likely to assume your 
 neighbor is home if his car is outside. 
  
  A higher level of polish and this game would likely score a ten but there is enough there to warrant 
 your hard earned money. Plus there's zombies. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cookj71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 10:40 am PT
Review:  I can't help but relate this to GTA 4, and to me, GTA 4 sucks compared to this game.
  Saints Row 2, acknowledges it is far from realistic and pokes dark humor at the Gang/Thug life 
 style and works great in it's design.
  
  It is an open world with a lot of things to have fun with and rewards for pursueing those things, 
 outside of the core "take over the world" main story.
  
  Now why I feel Saints Row 2 kicks GTA 4's butt.
  
  I have never played any other GTA games 
 other than GTA 4 and fould in laughablely unrealistic, yet with realistic world frustrations.
 
  
  I hate and I mean hate missions with timed elements especially multiple timed elements that if 
 you fail them restes the whole scenario. If I wanted that much ralism I would have stayed in the 
 army. I returned GTA 4 before Saints Row 2 came out due to this fact. Saints Row 2 with rare exception 
 has multiple save points in missions which removes the unacceptable frustration that GTA 4 gave 
 me.
  
  It's fun, pulls you in to it's form or realism/world and takes hours and hours to play through.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthbismark
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 5:33 am PT
Review:  I really liked the first game in the series, so I knew that when I bought this that I going to 
 like it. It didn't disappoint at all, but not much has changed though. It is pretty much the same 
 as the first game with some slight improvements such as new activities to do, new gangs to overthrow 
 and new areas to explore. There is, however, enough new content to make you feel like it is a new 
 game, but the controls and look of your surroudings will be very familiar. The missions were a 
 lot of fun and some of them were over the top chaotic. The graphics were better than first game 
 and much more colorful; however, the game would slow to a crawl if too much was going on. This 
 happened on the first mission of the game! But that shouldn't deter you from enjoying this game 
 and it only happens very rarely. There is no doubt that this game (like the first one) is a GTA 
 clone, but as long as it is done right, who really cares! If you like GTA or even the first Saints 
 Row game, there is more to like in this one as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynchmisfit99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Violent, disturbing, and over the top which is what makes this a great game along with the freedom 
 to play some pretty weird side quests.
  
  Realism is thrown out the window, with great rag dolls physics, unusual weapons and the ability 
 to make my character any way I please.
  
  The amount and variety of side missions in the game is good enough to many times forget the main 
 quest and just fling crap about the local neighborhood. That being said the same missions to gain 
 enough respect to advance in the main quest can get a bit annoying after a while thou.
  
  Customization is a huge part of the game - from yourself to your car, crib and crew, the game lets 
 you choose. Gimmick? Yes but still a fun gimmick
  
  Overall a game that doesn't really require much thought, however with all the fun things to do, 
 after a hard day at work coming home and playing as a overweight gangbanger in a dress with a chainsaw 
 can be quite relaxing.
  
  A great game that deserves a sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CardiacKid07
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  No matter who you are, this game is just pure fun. ill admit that the graphics aren't as good as 
 gta4 but if you looking for a more over the top game than gta4 then look no further. As far as 
 the storyline goes the cut scene's are great and the story is well put together. i don't want to 
 spoil anything but i do like how the game ties a few things up at the end ;) . Also the radio stations 
 in this game are pretty good and have some hit songs from not too long ago. Even after the story 
 is said and done there are plenty of activities to keep you busy for just as long if not longer 
 than the story did. Activities like being a body guard or pretending you cops will keep you coming 
 back for more and more. I didn't really play this online much so i cant really speak on it. Long 
 story short this game is at least worth a rent if not a buy but i recommend buying :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koospetoors
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is... hard to describe, some people will love it for its wackiness and variety, while 
 some will despise it for its lack of a good story and good graphics.
  
  Saints Row 2 begins a few years after the ending of Saints Row. Basically you were blown to pieces 
 and left in a coma, you then wake up in a prison.
  
  Because your character's awesome body got toasted in the first one, you have to make a new one with 
 the new improved character creator. You can now play as a female character if you want to. You 
 can also choose between different voices and walk styles.
  
  The main story is okay, it isn't deep and the humor is hit or miss. Some people describe it: "the 
 game has the same sense of humor as a 8 year old that just learned the F word". The voice acting 
 is good.
  
  Stillwater has changed quite a lot. Especially the area around the church that used to be the Saints' 
 main crib. Your not able to enter hair salons or cinemas anymore (don't worry, you still get to 
 replay cutscenes and missions) . Other than that, the city just expanded a bit. 
  
  Your gang is quite a mischievous bunch. When you usually see them on the streets, you will either 
 see them beat a random pimp to a pulp with a baseball bat or kill a bunch of policemen. Its quite 
 funny actually.
  
  Everything about the game has been improved (except the graphics) , you can now duel wield any one 
 handed weapon. You can ride a bike or fly a plane. You can also buy shops and an hangar or a dock 
 (to store your planes and boats in) . There is also a lot more weapons and other things you can 
 use.
  
  You can also customize your gang now. You can choose what style clothes they should wear (like 
 ninjas or 80's) and you can also choose the type of cars they should drive. You can't choose what 
 type of color clothes your gang should wear though.
  
  When it comes to combat, the game is fun. You can now choose between 4 fighting styles (3 of them 
 must be unlocked) . Each style has its own attacks and finishers. The gunfights are easy and fast. 
 You can also use a person as a shield now.
  
  The gun sounds are good and the music selection is the best, you even have an 80s pop rock station 
 with music from bands like Aha, Duran Duran and Lover boy. The cars also sound good, the bike engine 
 sounds are disappointing though.
  
  All the side missions from the first game returns with new, great ones. Some of the old ones, like 
 the assassination missions, have been improved. And it will take quite a while to finish them all.
 
  
  Although the game may feature a lot of new things and great vehicle\character customization, it 
 definitely has a few setbacks.
  
  The graphics didn't improve much, the game looks old. But fortunately, it isn't so bad your eyes 
 will start bleeding. The AI is stupid, especially your teammates AI. They will sometimes get stuck 
 behind a wall and just keep running into it.
  
  There is also a zombie mini-game, its good, but its too easy and not even close to scary. The only 
 freaking thing about the mini-game is how it looks when they bite a person.
  
  The main story missions are short and easy, you can easily finish the main game in about 10 hours. 
 Fortunately, you have millions of other things to do in the game, so you'll be playing for a long 
 time.
  
  All in All:
  
  Saints Row 2, like I said, is hard to describe. If you don't mind the bad graphics and okay story, you 
 will have a great time. But if you love beautiful graphics, a deep, long, story and hate profanity, stay 
 away.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ae86ben
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:08 pm PT
Review:  After reading the generally favourable reviews I decided to buy SR2. However after spending much 
 time on GTA4, this game feels very last-gen. Comparisons with San Andreas are accurate, but do 
 you really think you'd enjoy San Andreas 4 years on?
  
  Some gripes about the gameplay are: poor vehicle physics, no real feel for firearms, and a non-immersive 
 story/world.
  
  Having said that it's not a bad game in any major way. It's just that it doesn't blow you away 
 in any particular area and given the high standard of games out there it doesn't make a very strong 
 case for your gaming time.
  
  Some of the good points are: nice graphics, creative handheld weapons, good throwing mechanic, 
 highly customizable player model (maybe too high) , and a fairly quirky sense of humour.
  
  In honesty though I played it only twice. I put in about 4-5 hours all up and didn't have the urge 
 to go back. I sold it on ebay 3 weeks after I bought it. I'm sure there will be kids out there 
 who'd enjoy it, but for the more mature gamer (I'm 27) you won't be missing out on anything if 
 you pass this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Review : Saints Row 2 (360)
  
  When I first reviewed the previous entry into the Saints Row Series I was pleasantly surprised 
 by what a good game it was, so to say the least I came in with high expectations for the sequel, 
 especially since The godfather of the open world game genre has finally been released into the 
 Next Generation earlier this year with Grand Theft Auto 4, can Saints Row 2 live up to the game 
 that were Saints Row was, and keep up with Grand Theft Auto 4?
  
  Story :
  
  You wake from a two year coma in the local pen, and quickly break out of prison. It's time to return 
 to the mean streets of Stillwater to gain your revenge for the outcome of the original Saints Row, 
 one neighborhood at a time while uncovering the mysteries of what exactly happened to the old gang 
 to make them break up after your characters dominance of the city, and sudden disappearance.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Graphically the Saints Row 2 is largely improved over its predecessor, in 
 almost every conceivable fashion including getting rid of almost all of the glitches that plagued 
 the later stages of Saints Row. That said GTA 4 still looks better, is larger and has a tighter 
 more realistic look, though that is not what Saints Row 2 is trying to achieve, rather Saints Row 
 2 keeps its slightly more satirical look since it is not trying to be as serious. One of the hallmarks 
 of the Saints Row Series is the reliance on one of the most extensive create a character modes 
 that I have ever had the pleasure of using, in any game let alone in the genre. How good is it? 
 If you were to take a few photos of your self you would be able to make a character that looks 
 like your self in almost every facet, which I in fact did, and I have to say that it is always 
 funny to watch my overweight self running around and gunning down people at the slightest provocation, 
 something no one would ever see me do in reality.
  
  Music & Sound:
  
  Saints Row 2 again improves on the original game when it comes to the licensed soundtrack, which 
 in my opinion was better than what GTA 4 offered for music options, while continuing to add to 
 the great voice acting that was a large standard in the first game of the series. I was disappointed 
 however that there were only 6 available voices for the player to choose from, 3 male and 3 female 
 voices, a Caucasian, African American, and Hispanic for each gender, and while that is fine, I 
 did find the male Caucasian voice disappointing in that the male voice is a cockney accented gentleman, 
 which is fine considering that it is one of the favorite available voices for a character amongst 
 my circle of friends as it is enjoyable to hear a cockney accent in an place you doesn't expect 
 it to be, especially since no one else around you in the city of Stillwater has a similar accent, 
 but I suppose that I should be considering the amount of text that your character spouts off in 
 this game (as opposed to the first game where they only had a few lines of dialogue) as a reason 
 to find it forgivable, since they only had so much room on one disk, though the fact that I can't 
 get the voice of a genuine white boy as the voice of my character did get under my skin a little, 
 since the closest thing I got to hearing what I hoped to hear from my character was that of the 
 Hispanic voice which sounds very Caucasian, but occasionally curses in Spanish, since as I said 
 earlier I made my character look like me why not have him sound kind of like me. So I would have 
 at least liked to have had one more voice per gender.
  
  Control & Game play:
  
  If you are a fan of free roaming games like the GTA series except GTA 4, Crackdown, or the original 
 Saints Row than you will be more than pleased with your purchase, as well as know what to expect 
 game play wise when it comes to what Saints Row is trying to achieve fundamentally. Where Saints 
 Row sets it's self apart are the little details, like cruise control so you have an easier time 
 shooting while driving, side missions that are actually fun to play (as well as funny) rather than 
 feeling like busy work, and friends that don't keep calling you to go out on a "date", as well 
 as little touches that make the wonton destruction you will be causing in the city of Stillwater 
 a ton of fun, and provides a good counter measure to GTA 4's more realistic take on the genre.
 
  
  Design & Fun Factor:
  
  When THQ delayed Saints Row 2 a few months to distance the game from GTA4, I was upset on one hand, 
 because I was already done with GTA4 and looking forward to what looked to be a sold summer release, 
 and on the other hand it allowed the developers to polish the game up, and polish they did, eliminating 
 almost all of the errors that were present and plaguing the original game, and while a couple of 
 glitches remain but they are small and non game breaking like they were in the first game, and 
 only result in rare moments of slowdown every now and again, though mostly when you take to the 
 air in one of the games aircraft. Each mission and sub mission is a pleasure to play and while 
 there were some occasional AI glitches that occasionally got in the way, I found them forgivable 
 since they really didn't mess the game up that much at all, and these types of glitches were also 
 present in GTA 4 and didn't really bother me then either.
  
  Well I loved the original game, and Saints Row 2 did not disappoint at all. I thoroughly enjoyed 
 the game and it is my belief that if anyone else plays this game will enjoy it too
  
  
  
  Saints Row 2 (360) :
  
  
  
  Pros:
  
  Fun game play
  
  Good graphics
  
  Good 
 music
  
  More fun than the competition this year
  
  
  Cons:
  
  A few glitches remain but are forgivable
  
  Needed more voices for your character 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mynameishihi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Hmmmmmm how to describe saints row 2 .... Just plain fun. this is just about the best game i have 
 ever but in my X-box 360 from the first mission you play SR 2 is a fast paced fun action packed 
 experiance the missions are just challenging enough to make it fun "not to hard not to easy". If 
 just the missions where fun i would give it 7.5 but its the free time that got my attention from 
 over 100 vehicals and probarlly 50 weapons including chain saw, as14 hammer, vice 9 and many more. 
 The custamization is amazing in this game from your body to your cars and to your gang itself. 
 After all that and your still not getting enough from SR 2 than I'll tell you about the activities 
 from fuzz where your a tv cop to septic avenger covering people with souege the posibilitys are 
 endless. So if your don't like games that have just about anything and more than this game is'nt 
 for you if you do then go get yourself a copy of Saints Row 2 for the x-bow 360!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  When I bought GTA 4 I wondered... "I wonder if I should wait for Saints Row 2". Yep... I should 
 have. GTA 4 crashed and turns out Saints Row 2 was even better then the first!
  
  I'll skip the typical review stuff. We know the graphics aren't the best ever. The controls are 
 pretty easy and the music and all that is average. 
  
  So what makes this game so good? So much better then the first or even GTA? Well this is a true 
 Sandbox game. Sure you heard that before but you'll hear it again! There is so much crazy stuff 
 to do in this game its... well crazy.
  
  Throw people into stuff, pretend your a cop and do what you want, fly panes through small spaces, 
 kill zombies in a game, customize everything (literally) ... and did I mention theres COOP? They basically 
 took everything from the first game and added even more.
  
  There the story to which sure its not perfect but who cares. Its still a blast to play! 
  
 
  I don't care about the silly "gangsta" thing so I can customize my guy and even my gang members 
 anyway I want. I can be skinny, fat, a clown, a cyborg, a midget... anything. My gang can be a good 
 amount of things to from Ninjas to Pimps/Hos. Heck I can even customizes almost any car I find 
 in the game... and trust me theres ALOT!
  
  Overall you need to rent this game at least. If you liked the first game then buy this one. This 
 game is more about just messing around having fun then anything else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blank2k2
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  the GTA Series has always been king, no doubt about it... SR1 was a nice game, but GTA San Andreas 
 was just, well, better.
  
  GTA IV.. disapointed alot of people, myself included. too much attention on realistic graphics/physics 
 & not enough on the game itself.
  
  SR2, continues what SR1 had (a nice game) , with added things like bigger map, more cars, buying 
 more property, more missions, more side missions (and all fun!) , with the platinum award of being 
 a true free-roam game that adds online co-op (that alone, is enough get the crown) .... also has 
 humour & generally fun arcadey gameplay.
  
  
  SR2 is currently king, despite its buggyness/faults & flaws.. the game itself is awesome, if SR3 
 throws in a dash of GTA (abit of realism/graphics/polish) then SR3 will just be in a differant 
 league to the next GTA.
  
  That said, i hope the next GTA game brings back purchasing houses/cars/businesses & running gangs, 
 burgling houses, and intense police, ....... Now maybe fanboy people can relise why GTA IV was 
 a lacking disapointment in the series? :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior427
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  just plain fun I played the original saints row alot and it was fun but its nothing compared to 
 grand theft auto IV which took a much more serious movie approch to sanbox games but saints row 
 2 sticks to there old formula and does a very good job of it everthing has been improved in this 
 game more vhiecles like bikes boats copters and planes whcih were missing from the first game and 
 now there are many more options that allow you to custimize your character the only part of that 
 I didnt like was the voice collection and none of them match your body type and its missing a tone 
 control but that isnt really that bad the fight system has been upgraded the aiming has become 
 alot better because they put in a fine aim the many mini games which are in the game so you can 
 get respect have been brought back but they are much better I thought alot of them were kind of 
 lame in the first game but now theres a fight club and a crowd control mini game and another thing 
 that will keep you busy is zombie uprising suprisingly very fun so saints row 2 is smashed full 
 of content and destruction 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyConstantin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  I know you guys heard about Saints Row 1, the first free-roaming game on the Xbox 360 that looked 
 at lot like GTA: San Andreas. Well if you liked that, your going to love this.
  
  Saints Row 2 starts in prison, well it's actually a prison island miles away from the streets of 
 Stillwater. You start off by making your own character till in the finest details. After you done 
 that, you probably know what's bound to happen. Yes, you're going to make an run for it. After 
 you will finally escape from the dark, bloody prison, you will be back on the streets, with no 
 money, clothes, cars or houses.
  
  When you will be back in Stillwater, you can do whatever you want and go wherever you like. And 
 as you will drive thru the city you will notice that a lot of things changed since Saints Row 1. 
 For example: New gangs, new islands, new cars and of course new activities.
  
  Yes, activities, also known as side-missions. And they are just great, because after you will finish 
 the story mode in about 20 to 25 hours, you will spent about 30 hours completing these amazing 
 mini-games like Racing, Drug Delivery, Escort and much more.
  
  If you're getting bored, no worries, you can play co-op or go online. Online you can do stuff like 
 Team Deathmatch and Strong-Arm. Strong-Arm is actually more fun than Death Match, because it combines 
 all activites online.
  
  Saints Row 2 is a great game filled with humor and fun. It's a must have if you like free-roaming 
 games, humor or the rap scene. Saints Row 2 is out now and it costs about 60 euro's here in the 
 Netherlands. Downloadable content will be available soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packardcaribien
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  For those who want the short version, Saints Row 2 isn't GTA IV. But it isn't trying to be. It 
 is in fact better, in some ways, But strays to a fun, nonrealistic path.
  
  As for the long version, It is a fun game with a boatload of sandbox-style action. It is very similar 
 to Saints Row 1, and If you liked that, you'll love this. Stillwater, where the Saints series is 
 set, takes on a new appearence with it wholly rebuilt after a devastating earthquake. The whole 
 city is open from the beginning, making the story much less linear. You play your home-made character, 
 and you can make the male or female, fat or skinny, and anything in between. The city has been 
 taken over by three forces, and the story revolves around the Saints taking back the city. Aside 
 form the main Story mode, which might take 10-15 to complete, depending on how much you screw around, 
 You can do a vareity of activites completly new or polished up form SR1. You can to a minigame 
 where you murder zombies, you can jump in front of big-rigs to rack up insurance fraud, and everything 
 else you could imagine. The game lets you choose from a variety of thinly-veiled cars and weapons, 
 and this time the game includes Motorcycles, Planes, and all sort of Watercraft.
  
  To make a long story short, Saints row 2 is a game you should definetly check out, especially If 
 you liked the firts one or are a fan of the GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandangle
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Violet, disturbing, and over the top which is what makes this a great game along with the freedom 
 to play some pretty weird side quests.
  
  Realism is thrown out the window, with great rag dolls physics, unusual weapons and the ability 
 to make my character any way I please.
  
  The amount and variety of side missions in the game is good enough to many times forget the main 
 quest and just fling crap about the local neighbourhood. That being said the same missions to gain 
 enough respect to advance in the main quest can get a bit annoying after a while thou.
  
  Customisation is a huge part of the game - from yourself to your car, crib and crew, the game lets 
 you choose. Gimmick? Yes but still a fun gimmick
  
  Overall a game that doesn't really require much thought, however with all the fun things to do, 
 after a hard day at work coming home and playing as a overweight gangbanger in a dress with a chainsaw 
 can be quite relaxing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row 2 : An open world gangsta game that's flakin' and perpetratin
  But scared to kick reality.
  
  Story : After some kind of explosion from the first game, your 
 character wakes up in a prison hospital, and doctors must rejuvenate you using the game's character 
 creator. (I'm sure it's coincidence this very same aspect of gameplay appears in TNA Impact the 
 video game, but developers and people in general should try to avoid having anything in common 
 with TNA Impact, both the game and show.) More on the story in a bit
  
  Saint's Row 2 leaves a killer first impression. The character creation tool gives you a good deal 
 of depth with your character's appearance, giving you the freedom to make your character look anywhere 
 from a muscle-bound afro-surfer to granny gangsta-mime. I'm always up for a game that lets me create 
 my avatar in the absence of a more interesting protagonist. From there, the game's (strictly optional) 
 tutorial mission comprises of your character and a buddy breaking out of prison in the most macho 
 way possible  with enough firepower to mow down a seemingly army-like brigade of police officers.
 
  
  From there, the game lets you cut loose on the virtual city of Stillwaterand I mean the whole 
 city, not just a small portion of city that's cut off because a bridge needs repairs. You could 
 elect to not bother with the story missions because you want to check out all of the game's unusual 
 side jobs, like being a celebrity's bouncer or joining a fight club or throwing your character 
 into cars and earning money based on how much you let the game show off those ragdoll physics. 
 The money you earning roughing up people while disguised as a cop can then be spent on jewelry, 
 togas, alcohol, stun guns, boats, a pimped-out crib, and so forth.
  
  Once you finally decide to jump into story missions, the game gives the early impression that the 
 same slapstick humour that litters the sidequests is present here too. The one aspect of your avatar 
 character that you can't control is personality, and no matter how you design your character, he 
 or she will possess the brain of Duke Nukem; pro-death, pro-beer and probably present at a strip 
 club during whatever cutscene you're watching (regardless of your chosen gender) . The game then 
 has you boldly breaking into a courthouse to rescue your friend, the not-subtly-named Johnny Gat, 
 by way of spectacular gunfight, which includes a judge that pulls a shotgun.
  
  For the first hour or so, one should be thinking "man, this game is FUN!"
  
  A story that seemingly 
 doesn't take itself seriously, a goofy sense of humour, some hilarious mini-games, and the freedom 
 to go on a spectacular killing spree without fear of your cousin asking you out on a date. None 
 of that nonsense about having to maintain friendships or virtual television or attempts at being 
 serious and dramatic that sucked the fun out of Grand Theft Auto 4. In fact a good deal of the 
 game's marketing seems to be based around how it's everything Grand Theft Auto 4 wasn't.
  
  And then you start playing into the second hour.
  
  Then you realize that all those mini-games 
 are relatively shallow, and that there's only about ten of them despite how the in-game map seems 
 to be littered with them; many games will repeat over again at different locations (only marked 
 as a question mark before you approach them) and players looking to obtain 100% completion of the 
 game are going to need to repeat the same shallow games over and over again. For as fun as driving 
 around in a burning ATV lighting everyone else on fire is the first time, repeating it twelve more 
 times isn't quite as exhilarating. Just like the mini-games, the stores repeat themselves, and 
 suddenly the thrill of exploring the city to see what that green question mark on the map is vanishes 
 when you remember the last time you felt so inclined to explore and found the exact same tattoo 
 parlor with the exact same tattoos.
  
  Then the story that you hoped wasn't going to attempt to be dramatic like Grand Theft Auto 4 tries 
 to be dramatic like Grand Theft Auto 4except where Grand Theft Auto 4 had interesting characters 
 coupled with well-written dialogue and voice-acting, and genuinely entertaining comedy, Saint's 
 Row 2's characters are by and large a combination of standard, one-dimensional character archetypes, 
 ethnic stereotypes and general stupidity without being funny. The antagonists may as well be Saturday 
 morning cartoon supervillains with the way they behave themselves, and your allies are equally 
 shallow. Despite the presence of a Japanese gang wearing Game of Death (or I guess Kill Bill) jumpsuits 
 and wielding swords, and a Rastafarian gang headed by a man with a voodoo staff, the game is hell-bent 
 on making you taking these characters seriously. Ironically, most of the cutscenes seem to take 
 this serious tone more frequently than the very game Saint's Row 2 is claiming to be more "fun" 
 than.
  
  I'd mention that a game shouldn't glamorize a gangster lifestyle, or treat the death of so many 
 people as such an everyday event, but the only thing that these characters have in common with 
 an actual gang is the occasional slang and hatred of cops. Otherwise they may as well be Cobras 
 and GI Joes in an urban battlefield with the way they so casually fight with such large numbers.
 
  
  There's a decided lack of variety in the story missions. They generally comprise of go to an area 
 and shoot enemies (that may or may not respawn with great numbers) , or escort someone while shooting 
 enemies, or shoot at enemies at multiple locations well you get the idea. There's no cover mechanic 
 other than the ever-effective human shield; you run with one analog stick and aim with the other, 
 with no auto-targeting, like a typical third-person shooter. The advantage to this is that your 
 skill will reward you with more headshots. The disadvantage is that every gunfight is the exact 
 same as the one before it, including some boss fights (and the ones that aren't kind of suck. Take 
 the sword duels for example) .
  
  Seemingly, the idea behind this "streamlined" approach to level design is to allow the entire game 
 to be played co-operatively, online. It certainly is neat for any of your buddies to jump in and 
 out at their leisure and play along with you, but on the other hand, there's no tactical strategy 
 in the game to begin with other than "aim for the head", so the only benefit of having a buddy 
 around is for the game to become a glorified chatroom. On top of that, random strangers will randomly 
 request to join in on your game.
  
  This reminded me of an Xbox 360 game called Crackdown; a game that claimed to give the player open-ended, 
 co-op friendly missions and the freedom to do whatever they want, but the lack of structure merely 
 meant that the player was left to fight one wave of thugs after another. If you thought Crackdown 
 never got old and played it to death, then you'll find Saint's Row 2 to be almost the same game 
 except the generic super-armoured man is replaced with your vision of a gangster-mime. Then again, 
 that probably means you have a high threshold (or even obtain a sick sense of pleasure) from repetition 
 and thus could save money by playing through Crackdown again.
  
  For the rest of the world, Saint's Row 2 has an hour or so of laughs followed by some fifteen hours 
 of monotony, giving the game the recommendation that all publishers dread hearing; that it's "only 
 worth a rental". Ultimately, Saint's Row 2 is a poser. A wanksta, if you will. A game designed 
 by programmers who, for all we know, never seen gang graffiti in their neighborhood, let alone 
 anything that may resemble a hood, but were told to make something that resembled Grand Theft Auto 
 : San Andreas. Except San Andreas, as well as the game's previously mentioned target of Grand Theft 
 Auto 4, had both moments of clever humour and interesting plot development to make you want to 
 play onwards, combined with a great dearth of gameplay variety to keep things interesting. Grand 
 Theft Auto 4 was released 10 months ago, San Andreas 4 years ago (as of this writing) and both 
 are games that I feel compelled to play through to this day. Saint's Row 2 has been out a couple 
 weeks and I could care less if I never play it again.
  
  Pros : I've said this already, but I can't stress how much I appreciate a good character-creation 
 tool in a game like this. It's not that I'm against games with an interesting character, much less 
 ones whose stories are predetermined (i. e. most non-Western RPGs) , but I'd rather play as a creation 
 of mine instead of a generic, dull character, such at the one in Star Wars : The Force Unleashed.
 
  
  Cons : Since the marketing on this game is designed to rag on Grand Theft Auto 4, lets rag on everything 
 else in this game that doesn't measure up to Grand Theft Auto 4: Terrible radio stations with boring 
 DJs, unfunny commercials and mostly bad tracklists, clipping up the arse, bad enemy AI that has 
 a habit of standing still while you gun down their homies, no incentive to explore every nook and 
 cranny, weird vehicle controls, weird weapon balance that favors pistols over everything else, 
 insipid characters that are neither realistic nor unique, the occasional game freeze, a city that 
 nowhere feels as much like a real city as Liberty City, fake ads and fake stores that aren't as 
 clever, the inability to use taxis to quick-travel anywhere in the city, and, well, lack of immersion.
 
  
  3  stars
  
  I decree that any game with a zombie mini-game included should be questioned in terms of quality. 
 I'm looking at you, Call of Duty : World At War. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNoobster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  GTA is dead, gunned down in the street. Saints Row 2 is taking over the open-world game scene and 
 it's doing it with a bang.
  GTA 4 was boring... plain and simple. Saints Row 2 is extremley fun. 
  
  If you're still reading 
 then I haven't convinced you enough yet. Ok then... try this. GTA's idea of fun was driving your 
 friends around doing errands for them. Saints Row 2's idea of fun is lots of massive explosions, 
 exstensive character customization, killer soundtrack, slick weapons (50 cal sniper, katana, m16 
 with a grenade launcher) and driving around the city in a sewage truck spraying sh*t all over everyone.
 
  
  Need I go on...
  
  I had more fun in SR2 just running around and kicking people in the nu*s than I did in the majority 
 of GTA's story. Don't get me wrong... I still enjoyed GTA to a degree, it just didn't hold my attention. 
 It's greatest strength was also it's greatest weakness... it's realism. They're just wasn't enough 
 to do. The game does not deserve anything close to a 10.
  
  There is so much to do in Saints Row. Hitman missions, over-the-top body guard missions, races, 
 fight clubs, insurance fraud missions where you jump in front of cars, destruction derby, missions 
 where you're given infinite ammo and told to kill and destroy everything you see and alot more 
 that I can't think of right now. You can buy penthouses with heli pads and prison towers as cribs 
 and then add big screen tv's and stripper poles.
  
  The story is interesting and hilarious. Saints Row 2 had some of the funniest and coolest moments 
 in any game I've ever played. Are the characters immoral as**oles? Yes. Do they run around killing 
 old ladies? Yes. Are they some of the coolest people in video games? Hell yes! This is a VIDEO 
 GAME! It's not supposed to be entirely realistic or a moral guide to life. It's rated M for a reason.
 
  
  Saints Row is taking over as the dominate openworld game, no matter what the gamespot review says. 
 It is sticking to what games like GTA San Andreas seemed to favor... fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Nobody really fought much of of this franchise when its prequel first came out two years ago they 
 all thought that it was a rip off of the gta franchise but as time went on people started to realize 
 that it had unique innovations that the gta games never had. Now two years later people are playing 
 its sequel and have found out that it has even more unique innovations then the last one, and although 
 gta 4 and saint's row 2 are very similar there not the same.
  
  Saint's row 2's innovations are somewhat the same from last time but this time they have been amped 
 up. Its new innovations on the other hand are things like customizing the overall outlook of your 
 gang with a sign, a gang style, and a vehicle style. That's only a small piece of what you can 
 do in this game, like for instance you can now buy businesses and make a small but hefty amount 
 of cash off of the businesses you buy that's innovative because not only can you buy them but by 
 making money off of them you will always receive some cash if say you use all the money you currently 
 have. 
  
  Here's another one: you can also use different fighting styles on your enemies which look really 
 cool, you can also say different compliments to your gang members and different taunts at your 
 enemies now while these are interrsting it feels like this all of the new innovations that's there. 
 For a crime free roaming third person action franchise like this one that showed itself off two 
 years ago AND had alot of promising innovations sure as hell didn't have enough new innovations 
 in its sequel. 
  
  But I'm just getting started on this game. Not only does the lack of more new innovations then 
 the ones that are there bother me other things to do. Like when your flying a plane or a helicopter 
 and your trying to fly around or above a building or even when you try to turn around you fall 
 RIGHT into the building and nearly miss being blown up, for a franchise like gta the flight controls 
 sure suck. Now that's not the worst of it, the very worst mechanic in this game is that when your 
 standing still and your trying to reload your gun some dumb enemy gang member or ultor thug just 
 continously shoots at you and your health just freakin gets drained and you nearly die but not 
 before you reload and shoot his ass.
  
  If THQ wanted to make an even bigger impression on gamers then they should have fixed that mechanic 
 because it was in saints row as well. Am i finished heckling this game? yes i believe so but there 
 was one more good innovation that was implemented in this game you get to control the speed of 
 the end credits. That's never been done before in any game and it's good to see that in there and 
 although it doesn't do much or mean a lot it sure works. Saint's row 2 may be like gta 4 but it 
 has what gta 4 and gta 4: the lost and damned will never have: a spin on crime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Copperhead89
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  First of all there is ALOT of things to do in this game but the only problem is that you may feel 
 like you already did them before. Its very similar to San Andreas but it has its differences.
 
  
  Character customisation is great so you can make pretty much anyone , although the voice choices 
 are very limited.
  The story... well its not much of a story but it doesn't take itself too seriously which is a good 
 thing & there are some entertaining jokes here & there. The radio is nothing special but you can 
 customise a channel with selected music which is not too bad.
  
  Its definitely not a bad game but its not the best either, I guess you could say its GTA with more 
 shooting but i have not played GTA4 so i cant compare. If you love 3rd person shooters & are not 
 too interested & a high quality story the check this out, the action here is fun without a doubt 
 but if you want realism, story and a game that actually makes you think before you act then... 
 you might want to skip on this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagcivtec
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is fun, a lot of fun. It doesnt try to act like GTA 4, its more a San Andreas approach, 
 which is good news, as I consider S A to be superior to GTA4. Not Graphically ofcourse, but in 
 variety and content its richer. Character costumization is among the best ever. Gun fights ars 
 simply amazingly satisfying thanks to solid mechanics, awesome gun sounds, fast moving bullets, 
 destructible suroundings, good rag doll physics and awesome explosions. I want to give particular 
 attention to RPGs, which look and feel amazing. They fly fast and are pretty accurate at long ranges 
 and end up in a beautyful, violent blast effect with sparks and smoke everywhere, not like those 
 slow, inaccurate, bland and unimpressive RPGs in Mercs 2 if you played that one. Helicopters are 
 abundant and have awesome avionics and physics, until you hit a building or light pole, then they 
 just loose it. About the cars, theres a huge variety of them and they are highly costumizable, 
 have nice physics and weight but some of them have weird handling with exagerated oversteering 
 and cornering, specially the lighter, faster cars feel off. The damage mechanic is preety good 
 with nice deformation, particles, sounds, and effects when you crash. Missions are fun and satisfying 
 with nice variety, good design and pace and abundance. Side missions are everywhere and are as 
 much fun as story missions, and playing them rewards with leveling up something on the character, 
 like longer sprinting, more powerfull melee atacks, unlimited ammo for a weapon, and more cool 
 stuff youll find very usefull. Overall graphics look a little washed, but lighting effects, and 
 textures are allright. I highly recommend it to any one that liked San Andreas. With its silly 
 and funny stereotypes, sheer variety and fun gameplay, Saints Row 2 is a refreshing and welcome 
 gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soviet1917
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I'll make this simple.
  
  Pros
  Full Customization
  Great Weapons
  Fun Story
  Fun mini games
  Good music (unlike GTA IV's lack of music...)
  Funny humour.
  
  Cons
 
  A few bugs that cause the game to crash.
  
  Basically the game is amazing, and in my opinion, better than GTA IV. It remembered to do what 
 GTA IV forgot... which is to allow the player to have FUN with the game instead of making them go 
 through half the game just to learn how to hail a freaking taxi. That said, Saints Row 2, is a 
 great game to just have fun with. If you think that GTA was a good game, you'll probably have more 
 fun with this. If you think GTA IV sucked, try this game and maybe it's what you were looking for 
 in IV. If you're new to the "Sandbox crime" games, this or the first Saints Row are good games 
 to try to see if you like them. Unlike GTA IV, this game doesn't try to be overly realistic, which 
 is where GTA IV failed at. It just concentrates on having fun, and that's what's important. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcheek13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  When I started playing Saints row 2 I figured out it was not much different from the first, but 
 the additions they have made have made the game even better. I found myself getting caught up in 
 the story line and I really loved playing the missions. The characters are amazing, the enemies 
 do enough to piss you off. The game delivers an off the wall experience and it is totally worth 
 every penny! The side missions are a great addition and they do not feel like they get in the way. 
 I actually enjoyed doing the side missions to earn respect to do the story missions. This game 
 is over the top and it reminds me a lot of the movie "Crank" If you are easily offended please 
 stay away from this title, but if you love violence and over the top mayhem please play this game. 
 It can be glitchy at times but nothing that will make you want to stop playing, the rag doll physics 
 are the best!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 offers full character customization where as you can be yourself as you play the game. 
 You can create a character which reflects you in real life. The way you look, your race, the way 
 dress and your gender. There are alot of clothes to buy in many stores which offers various tastes 
 for clothing. You can change everything you wear the way you like it, and anytime you feel like 
 doing so. Now, you can create any gender or be a woman and dress like a man or the way around. 
 Being a sexy chic or simple school girl gangster is now playable in this game
  
  This game has the most number of hair style one can have in a game. One can change to a formal 
 hairdo to an exotic dreadlocs hairdo with just a visit to the plastic surgeon.
  
  Saints Row 2 is the lime light of all action games because it has alot flash and blings. There 
 are alot of jewelry stores where you can buy necklaces, earrings, rings, and many more accessories. 
 It is very innovative of Saints Row 2 to have a unique feature where you can change what metal 
 you like for your jewelry. Choosing from steel, silver, and gold, a player may wish to wear what 
 suits him most.
  
  Buying Clothes plus the jewelries and other possessions gives you style points which makes it easier 
 to earn more respect. When you don't change clothes, you will get negative reactions from the people 
 around.
  
  This game has the most number of weapons ever. My favorite weapons are katana, chainsaw, taser 
 and AK47.
  
  Asside from these weapons, you can pick up anything on the ground and turn it into a weapon. You 
 can even pick up a wheelchair and smash it on someone.
  
  The shine of the game didn't end at just jewelries. It also offered glossy awesome cars. The cars 
 shine because you can fully customize your ride at shops which you can visit you anytime in order 
 to make your car as cool as possible. Don't think the game is costly because you spend alot on 
 customization. It's a really convenient part of the game in which you can just steal a customized 
 car. It just takes an observant eye and you can spot people around you driving really hot cars 
 and steal them. I really like the way this game included really rare cars, one can only spot at 
 certain time and place, and one can buy for a really expensive price. It added more thrill to the 
 game. The time and effort on saving cash to buy the most expensive car and the time consuming search 
 and wait for a rare car is so fulfilling when you get what you want in the end. The best rides 
 would be the Bear, FBI, Bulldog and Superiore.
  
  Cash is easy to earn on Saints Row 2. Just be industrious and patient.
  
  You will be playing 
 this game for really long fun-filled and action packed ours. It is because it has alot of missions. 
 The most action packed which had me at the edge of my bed is the snatch activity.
  
  SR2 has tons of activities and diversions.
  
  The most brutal of all is the Drive-by Diversion. 
 It's a war where dead bodies scatter the streets and the sound of explosions means danger to your 
 crew. Quickness is decision making matters most as you see you car start to smoke or when RPGs 
 and grenades start raining to your vehicle.
  
  The test of patience really got me eating while playing or just holding my controller and listening 
 to the games radio stations' music. This test of patience is the Chop Shop activity. Saints Row 
 2 was really realistic on this part of the game. You will find a car depending on time, weather, 
 place, people and environment. It really got me thinking on where I may find that certain car needed. 
 The creators of this game really put their heart on to this game and they made it as realistic 
 as possible.
  
  This is the one thing you can only find in Saints Row 2: party system. Playing an action game single 
 player is now better than ever. You can call homies to ride with you. You and your crew will protect 
 each other in order to dominate and eliminate other gangs. There will only be a maximum of 3 crew 
 members you can bring along to ride with you but expect nearby allies to assist you when you are 
 attacked close to them. The funniest moments I had in the game was being able to ride with the 
 special crew. These are the ones you unlock when you finish certain mission. I had lots of laugh 
 with the special crew member you unlock when you finish a certain mission. He sings with the tune 
 of So Sick by Ne-Yo. He's the funniest crew member.
  
  The most innovative part of this party system is that homies can snatch other vehicles and follow 
 you from behind. You can do this when you ride a 2-seater. The other 2 crew members will find another 
 vehicle.
  
  How about using a human shield? Or shooting an enemy behind a human shield killing both the hostage 
 and the enemy. It's all in this game. Try throwing someone on top of the highest building.
  
  I played the mission on hardcore mode and I can say that there really difficult missions. Just 
 be creative, bring the right crew, right weapons and alot of ammo.
  
  There are air and water vehicles now in SR2. The controls on these vehicles are unique and easy 
 to get used to. There are motorcycles. The Kenshin for me is the most fun to ride on. Doing jumps 
 on in was fun.
  
  Saints Row 2 has so many features. Endless possibilities you can do. It has alot of great music 
 you can listen to on the radio or buy as an mp3 for your audio player. It's the best game ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamix22
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  Now, you might think Saints Row 2 is a Grand Theft Auto clone. Well, partly it is, but then again 
 any sanbox game would be. There are many great activities, and in the sense of humour and things 
 to do, well, Saints Row 2 maybe even is superior to GTA IV. Saints Row 2 hasn't got a typically 
 interesting storyline, but it's OK. Since you get to make your own dude and run around naked in 
 the streets, who cares? It is glitchy and there are pop-ups now and then, but you can still enjoy 
 the game and have fun. A lot of fun. Co-op is also nice, but there can be some lags and d/c problems. 
 Overall, if you just want to have fun, Saints Row 2 is the game to play in your spare time.
  
  Pros:
  
  Great humor
  Great activities
  Good voice acting
  Endless custimization 
 options
  
  Cons:
  
  Glitchy, glitchy, buggy, buggy.
  Not a very interesting storyline.
  The AI is as smart as a cow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  When it comes right down to it, there really is nothing special about Saint's Row 2, so it's only 
 natural to be confused about what makes the game so good. Truly, the graphics and sound are average 
 at best, and it suffers from over-zealous physics. Most of the music in the game is decent, but 
 unmemorable, and the A. I. of both your friends and foes is so stump-dumb you'll want to cry. There 
 isn't even a cover mechanic, so most of the game is run and gun. After all of this, you would think 
 that other open-world titles, such as GTA IV, would leave this in the dust.
  
  But it still manages to not only stand apart from other open-world titles, it also manages to stand 
 out from many of them as well. Once you get a little deeper into the game and discover the plethora 
 of customization options for both your character and your vehicles, over-the-top storyline, hilarious 
 side missions, awesome online co-op, and top-notch voice acting, you realize that it manages to 
 pull off something that many games have trouble with: It's ridiculously fun, and it begs you to 
 continuously play you've explored every last square inch of the game map.
  
  And fun is the name of the game here, kids. This game goes to great lengths to prove that it never 
 takes itself seriously, and that you shouldn't take it seriously either. Before the game is over 
 you will have done everything from slaying entire gangs to streaking (or maybe even slaying entire 
 gangs while streaking) , and it gets to the point where the insignificant graphics and sound become 
 just that: insignificant. You'll be having too much fun to count pixels.
  
  Saints Row 2 only suffers from a couple of minor problems. It will occasionally freeze-up on you 
 for no apparent reason (it froze on me three times during the course of the entire game) , which 
 can get pretty frustrating if you're just finishing a difficult mission. But it's so infrequent 
 that most people will see past it and just re-start their consoles without a care. The other issue 
 is the aforementioned A. I., which can really screw your day. Sometimes your allies won't have the 
 sense to just walk around an obstacle, and in turn get themselves stuck and killed. This forces 
 you to revive them, and leaves you open to attack while you do so.
  
  Another important thing to mention here is that when I say this game goes over-the-top, I mean 
 it goes absolutely over-the-top. There were times that I literally dropped my controller because 
 of what was happening on-screen, so don't expect this game to tread lightly. It wears size-thirteen 
 steel-toed boots, and will kick your backside every chance it gets.
  
  This game is for just about everyone except for gamers who won't be able to handle the mature content, 
 and those who dislike open-world games in general. Everyone else owes it to themselves to buy this 
 game and play it, as it's too much fun to pass this up or pass it by. I promise you won't regret 
 it for an instant.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigshawn24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Saints row 2 is a solid game not perfect but solid. I found that certain activities can be glitch-ie 
 and almost too repetive. for example while doing a "FUZZ" mission i encountered a pole in a back 
 lot that did not seem to move ( I know this because I hit it) now I'm perfectly fine with the pole 
 not moving , its just the fact that once i hit the pole my police cruser or 5-0 did not want to 
 move eather. Stuck in a cruser on lvl 6 with the difficulty jacked up is quite annoying when your 
 just about done getting the footage you need. other then The glitches the game is awsome, I found 
 the Story to kinda grab me and make me want to shoot more and more ppl ( who dosent want that) . 
 The wide range of guns and explosives is great aswell. My hands down fav part has to be CO-OP. 
 Running throught the streets with a friend is sweet and dubble the blood shed. The achevements 
 are set just in reach and in personal opinion are fun. Overall Saints Row 2 is a good game that 
 i will play (with friends ) for a little while to come. But due to the glitches and some minor 
 work I think an 8.5 is respectable and deserving.
  
  ~Big 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 40ozbastard
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The title to this review is thanks to the experience that is Saints Row 2. After feeling like I 
 am responsible for bringing the respect back to the purple representing Saints gang, gave me the 
 right to type how I feel, Like a bad mofo. The game takes place after its first game's cliff hanger 
 ending that left you wanted more, and kept everything that was great about the first and added 
 more. If you were a fan of the first saint's row like I was, this is a must play. Now people say 
 that this game ripped off GTA... Really most of the fun games have all used ideas of GTA, and even 
 failed. People also say this is a GTA clone, This is not the case, it is the same genre, same style 
 game play, and most importantly its own story and features, that make it most unique, and most 
 importantly, an enjoyable experience. Compared to gta's 4 graphics these are more cartoon y, And 
 whats awesome is that doesn't make this game suck. The story will have you sucked in wanting to 
 finish it, while the whole time you get a sense of importance because you know you can modify your 
 gang the whole time to your liking, You must represent the purple color, but you have a choice 
 of doing it as ninjas, hiphop kids, oldschool thugs, professional body guards, which gives you 
 a feel of owning the story, Making it your own. Basically if you loved the take over territory 
 style of gta: sa, that has been the basics for both saints rows. Playing this game has made me 
 kill any punk a** trick who gives me a wrong look when im sportin' purple. Peace B****es.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epic_Oatmeal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Red Faction developer Volition Inc. successfully released the first next-generation sandbox "crime 
 simulator", Saints Row, in 2006. While it was criticized for copying the Grand Theft Auto formula 
 almost exactly, given that previous attempts to do so (NARC, Driv3r, True Crime, etc.) by other 
 developers were very poor or uninspired, Saints Row was still met with well above average reception 
 for its good story and characters, large amount of variety, and impressive presentation for its 
 time. While I'm ashamed to admit that I never played the first Saints Row, thus I am not entirely 
 sure how this sequel has improved upon its predecessor, I can still safely say that Saints Row 
 2 is a 30-60 hour pure, unadulterated, over-the-top criminal romping.
  
  While I would certainly say that having played the first game would give you a better appreciation 
 and understanding of the story in Saints Row 2, it isn't completely necessary. You play an unnamed 
 criminal, once a member of the Third Street Saints gang, who has just woken up from a 5-year coma 
 after being caught in an explosion at the end of the first Saints Row. The Saints gang are all 
 but disbanded without your leadership, leaving the city of Stilwater open to three rival gangs, 
 the Brotherhood, the Sons of Samedi, and the Ronin. A huge and rapidly expanding, power-hungry 
 corporate entity called Ultor further throws a wrench in the gears, trying to purge the city of 
 criminals one neighborhood at a time. A veteran criminal like you isn't going to let that happen, 
 are you? You wake up to find yourself in an Alcatraz-like island prison, where you immediately 
 begin creating your character. The amount of customization in this alone is staggering, to say 
 the least. You can choose to be either male of female, there's more hair styles than I ever knew 
 existed, sliders for editing every possible part of your body, choices of taunts and compliments, 
 and you even get to choose your character's voice.
  
  After creating your character, a fellow inmate informs you of how long you were in a coma, and 
 that the Saints are no more. He convinces you to escape the prison with him (God, I hope no real 
 prisons are that easy to break out of) , steal a boat, and get back to the mainland. Once you break 
 out and reach the city you're free to go about on your own business. There's a few starter missions 
 that involve your character getting together new lieutenants, as well as an old friend, to resurrect 
 the Saints gang, after which you can do gang missions. There's three series of eleven missions 
 each, one series for taking down each gang, as well as a couple of epilogue missions at the end. 
 As you do gang missions you obtain territory in the form of neighborhoods, and you'll occasionally 
 have to fight back enemy gangs that try to re-take their territory as long as that gang is still 
 alive.
  
  In order to do the story missions, though, you must earn Respect. Basically everything you do, 
 from killing gang members to driving recklessly will be ranked as you play, and you'll earn Respect 
 points for all of it. Earning Respect is simple and easy without even trying to do it, so it doesn't 
 really give you a strong sense that everything you do matters, even though it seems that's what 
 Volition was going for. Partaking in the wide selection of minigame-like activites, which I'll 
 mention later, earn you very large amounts of Respect very quickly. Some might find the game forcing 
 you to do side jobs to forward the story frustrating, but it's a really great means of encouraging 
 exploration and extending the longevity of the experience for those more accepting of it.
  
  As the story progresses your gang will become more powerful. They'll be outfitted with better 
 weapons, you'll unlock better cars for your gang to drive, and they'll populate any neighborhoods 
 that you own. You can even customize the style of your gang, from 80's techno dudes to ninjas, 
 all in gaudy purple and black outfits. The opposing gangs will scale up in difficulty too, being 
 given better weapons whenever you take down another gang. It keeps the gameplay relatively well 
 paced, but really the difficulty stays about the same throughout, which is quite easy.
  
  Each neighborhood that you own will generate $500 that you can collect once a day, which is your 
 main source of income. You can also purchase any shops in a neighborhood that you own, generating 
 even more daily revenue. This is a very good investment early on if you expect to be playing for 
 a long time. You most likely won't ever need to buy weapons and ammo, so your money is better spent 
 on the outrageously huge assortment of clothing you can customize your character with. You can 
 also buy a makeover at a plastic surgeon if you want to change anything about your character's 
 appearance. The vehicle customization is also impressive, allowing for a wide variety of both aesthetic 
 and performance modifications for any vehicle (boats, helicopters, and planes are out of the question) . 
 The most expensive things to buy in the game are the cribs that, when bought, you can replay missions 
 from, go through your wardrobe or weapons cache, or collect your protection money. Even these can 
 be customized to a degree, letting you choose the overall style and some of the individual furnishings 
 at an extra cost.
  
  Aside from the main story the city of Stilwater still has tons to offer in the way of entertainment. 
 There are a myriad of activities that are marked on your map like racing, hitman contracts, chop 
 shop lists, and various minigames you can participate in for money, respect, and other special 
 rewards. You have to travel to these locations first to figure out what they are, though, encouraging 
 lots of exploration. Aside from activities there are also smaller diversions like a taxi, paramedic, 
 tow truck, and fireman missions, as well as even lesser diversions like streaking (yes, running 
 around the city naked) , mugging pedestrians, and drive-by shooting. There's also 50 collectible 
 CD's hidden through the world, 50 graffiti tagging locations, 32 secret areas, and a whole lot 
 of stunt jumps and barnstorming locations to search for in your free time. To top it all off, there's 
 the Zombie Uprising minigame, which is fun distraction that fits in well with the rest of the game's 
 quirky-ness.
  
  What could possibly make this ridiculously fun game even more fun? Co-operative play. You and a 
 friend can literally do ANYTHING together, from the main story missions to any of the activities 
 and diversions. You have no leash tethering the two players together. As you can imagine the frame-rate 
 issues I mentioned before are even more of an issue here, but not by much. You're likely to ignore 
 them when your friend is driving 100 MPH down the highway while you're leaning out the window tossing 
 molotov cocktails at pursuing gang vehicles. To put it simply, I've been waiting for a sandbox-style 
 game with co-op, and Saints Row 2 delivers in spades.
  
  Saints Row 2's presentation is a mixed bag, the main problem being serious performance issues. 
 It's not that the game looks bad in any way, just unimpressive by the standards set by today's 
 other sandbox games. Character modeling and animation are the best part of the visuals, which makes 
 seeing your avatar interacting in the cutscenes appropriately satisfying. The world and everything 
 in it is very detailed, and the Havok physics are a lot of fun, but there's something technologically 
 weak about Saints Row 2. It's a really hard thing to describe, and I'm definitely not the best 
 person to explain it. Although, part of this phenomenon that is easily explainable is that the 
 game struggles to keep a solid frame-rate during some really "high profile" moments with lots of 
 action happening around you. The game is playable and keeps a solid frame-rate almost all the time, 
 except during these certain situations, especially during rainy weather.
  
  The audio is decent. Voice-acting is humorous, characteristic, and a little bit exaggerated, but 
 it really gives all the characters great personality that doesn't seem out of place in the world 
 of Saints Row 2. The radio stations with wacky hosts are a must for this kind of game, and while 
 nothing could possibly hold a candle to GTAIV's radio stations, the ones in Saints Row 2 are still 
 plenty of fun to listen to. Unfortunately, there's very few stations, so there's not enough variety 
 in them to keep you entertained for long. The licensed sountrack is an ace in the hole, though, 
 letting you purchase songs from every genre imaginable and putting them together in your own personal 
 playlist to listen to instead of the normal radio.
  
  Put all the comparisons to GTA IV aside (even though a made a couple myself...) , Saints Row 2 set 
 out to improve upon its predecessor, as well as provide a highly customizable experience with an 
 immense amount of variety, which I believe it has succeeded in doing with flying color. When a 
 game like GTA sets the standard for its genre, derivation is to be expected and should be accepted 
 by now, just like when first-person-shooters were stopped being called Doom-clones. Besides, Saints 
 Row 2 has more than its own share of original ideas to set itself apart, which is commendable. 
 Anyone who wants a more San Andreas-like criminal sandbox game should not pass over this game. 
 It's a guilty pleasure, and that's exactly how it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bomberpilot101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  To tell the truth, anyone who wants a realistic RPG, go over to GTA4. Anyone else that just wants 
 a plain, fun, shoot em' up game, you've come to the right place. If you haven't played Saints Row 
 before, I rocommend renting it and playing the story for Saint's Row 1 first. You start off after 
 the boat explosion of SR1, and after a long coma, 3 new gangs have taken over Stilwater. Once you 
 start Saints Row 2, you get a taste of just what the future holds. You get to handle a giant machine 
 gun, throw people, execute people, use stealth and blast through cops trying to arrest you. The 
 game has lots of new wepons to play with, and new activities. Also, you get to buy and customize 
 your 'cribs', customize your cars, and your gang. All of this alone will provide hours of fun. 
 Action-packed missions also attempt to add to the little originality the game has. On the down 
 side, it lags. Bad. Even in single player. But the extensive soundtrack along with tons of things 
 to do even after you beat the story will keep you playing for hours. Eventually, thought, you'll 
 be wandering around Stillwater when you have 100% completion and be wondering what to do. Bottom 
 line: the game's awesome with a few, minor setbacks. worth every dime of that $60.00. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ulvenska
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I was surprised to see a sequel to Saints Row. It didn't seem to warrant one. But seeing as that 
 there's no such thing as too much mindless violence, who was I to say no. 
  The Saints Row people pretty much decided to not merely accept their 'inferior rip-off' reputation 
 - they decided to be proud of it and were inspired to expand their petty lack of dignity even further 
 - what a success! Streaking AND flashing people on the street when either one on its own would 
 have done - now that's dedication to being GTA's retarded cousin. And why we had to wait till now 
 before we see the spraying of excrement all over rich know - kudos SR2!
  The crowning achievement in additions may be credited to the astronomically vast aray of customization 
 to vehicles, clothing and character, but the most surprizingly brilliant addition for me was the 
 inclusion of throwing. Not only to you get to kick people in the nuts - nut shots and vag shots 
 get you respect, strangely enough - and plenty of joy as you see them clutch at their nether regions, 
 but you also get to toss people off overpasses and cliffs. And this extra joy comes at no expense 
 to simplicity of controls. Brilliant.
  Now, Saints Row wouldn't be Saints Row without glitches, it seems. This game didn't so much get 
 rid of its old glitches as much as replace them with others. None of its glitches are as embarrassing 
 in appearance as in the prequel where you car would disappear, relegating you to the status of 
 a a schizophrenic steering a stationary invisible vehicle. But it does have some utterly patheticities. 
 In a couple of missions, the goal was to assasinate people. The fundamentals suggest that when 
 you reach you target, he be there for you to kill - but no. Only Saints Row could fail to produce 
 the very person you're supposed to kill inorder to pass the mission. 
  Many of the ACTIVITIES, though fun, were poorly constructed. The instructions Saints Row gave you 
 never seemed to work, and you had to just trial and error your way till you found an unfulfilling 
 idiocyncarcity in the system to complete the difficult levels of the missions. For instance, I 
 was advised to use satchel charges to pedestrians skating all over the street in one activity. 
 It's hard enough attaching such a weapon to a stationary pedestrian let alone frenzied skaters 
 who are speed away by the time you finish you throwing arm's follow-through. I ended up just running 
 everyone over with my car and shooting the rest. So, this game did end up being a "use your uzzy 
 for everything" game.
  And the map directions were far inferior to the first one. You'd pass a street AND THEN the map 
 will say you should've taken it. Map-lag, I guess I'll call this. 
  One minor, yet cruddy glitch is the fact that all the your beloved Saints are driving around in 
 purple cars with RED windows, not purple. At first I thought this was just a case of bad taste 
 on their part, but a visit to the garage showed that they indeed intended those wondows to be purple. 
 (Is this just my copy? I don't know) . In any case, the vehicle paint jobs were much better in the 
 first game (though I don't have hi-def tv, which the second game may require for its effect...)
 
  How did this sequel handle the transition from 15 years ago to now? Adequately, yet uninspired. 
 They did as good a job of changing the same city to look vastly different from the first, but frankly, 
 Saints Row 1 was far more colourful and interesting in appearance. And no matter how good a job 
 they did, it's still the same city so I wasn't I got deja-vous pretty much straight-away, so exploring 
 a new city is an experience you miss in this game if you've played the first - been there, done 
 that. 
  As for the vehicles, there were too many old ones. This would be fine if the modifications involved 
 elaborate decals so as to excite you from the time you did them up in the prequel, but alas. And 
 seeing so many lambourghinis driving around makes them feel so unspecial, so there was no buzz 
 in owning a cool car - they were too commonplace.
  The addition of helicopters and motorcycles and planes was much welcome, even if they didn't master 
 the feel of these. Riding a motorbike felt no different from driving a car. But I guess they'll 
 improve on Saints Row 3 (?!) .
  The spawning system for vehicles was inferior to the first installment, I believe. In this sequel, 
 you'd see the same three cars for five minutes roaming around. In the first Saints Row, the had 
 maybe 5-6 doing the rounds, so it felt more vibrant and various.
  And the crashing and damage, and engine sounds I also believe were better in the first one. (Infact, 
 the sound samples were overall better in the first one) . 
  
  As you can see, I was pointing to all Saints Row 2's negatives. That's because the positives speak 
 for themselves. Though one thing I'll mention before I stop is the pedestrianYOU interaction. Magnificent. 
 There's alot of detail in what pedestrians will say to you. If you pull out a sword, they'll remark 
 "a sword? in my day we used knuckles" (paraphrasing) or stuff like that. And the comments coming 
 out of your own character's mouth is at times ball-kickingly hilarious. The cut-scenes are excellent. 
 
  One of the funniest games ever made, perhaps?! No, not perhaps - per-certain!
  
  *Oh one last glitch - don't be surprized if when you start-up you game, you character is wearing 
 a bra instead of what he's actually supposed to be wearing (admittedly, I did have that bra in 
 my wardrobe to begin with, so I'm not totally blameless *embarrassed*) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matt1836
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  SR2 gives the gamer everything gammers wanted in GTV "Customization"
  Your character, houses, cars & Clothes, & this time your character has a voice & the addition of 
 motorcycles, planes, helicopters & boats are a great welcome The story is standard as all games of 
 this kind are, The town of stillwater has changed while some parts are familiar with others parts 
 are total different. as the first SR there are solid missions with crazy characters but this time 
 around the characters don't make mission tough on you & with new guns help you to over power most 
 problems with your opponent, your vehicles don't slip & slide all over the road, there are plenty 
 of building & underground places to explore that make just walking around more fun
  SR2 left off where SR started but improves vastly from the first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazater
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  at the beginning of sr2 you are handed a gun and are instantly killing cops, way to start a game, 
 the immature and downright corny humor that was also seen in sr1 is even more over the top than 
 in the previous installment. and with a wide variety of stuff to change, kill and buy, theres plenty 
 of entertainment to be had in Stillwater. 
  the graphics of the game are quite crisp, which you notice with an HDTV and a HDMI cable attached 
 to your system. 
  you create your own protagonist with the widely adjustable player customization at the begginning 
 of the game, but you have the option of visiting a plastic surgeon later on, where you can completely 
 alter your appearence, behavior, fighting style, voice and even gender.
  with all its gizmos and gadgets i would recommend this game to anyone who likes fighting, shooting 
 or driving games. which pretty much is every consoleplayer in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntercal
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  Lets get the whole major issue out of the way, yes this is a GTA clone, but it truely is hard to 
 care when it is this much fun. What actually sets it apart from GTA IV is the fact that it seems 
 lighter with GTA IV being very gritty and having certain gameplay elements that attempt to make 
 it more of a complete entertainment experience. Saints Row 2 decides that it needs none of this 
 just some great game mechanics in an open world.
  
  The story picks up where the last one left it, with your character lying in a prison bed waking 
 up from a coma. For those that remember your character was supposedly blown sky high in an huge 
 explosion in Still Water. Well now you are back and now you have a great voice to accompany your 
 new look. You have a choice of 6 voices, three for each gender. For the sake of this review I am 
 a Cockney crim on the loose from prison. You soon realize that Johnny Gatt is in prision for hundreds 
 of murders he committed in his exploits in the first game and Julius is nowhere to be found leading 
 to the extinction of the 3rd Street Saints. You soon break Johnny out and rustle up some new blood 
 to bring back the saints to take on the three gangs in town as well as a mahor business in Stillwater 
 that has changed it into a thriving metropolis.
  
  The thing that makes this game so much fun is its over the top animations and action. When you 
 hit someone with your car they go flying into the sky and when you set off your SMG your foes hit 
 the floor in a bloodied mess. The formula of the game is the same as the one that came before it 
 with major missions that have you fighting off major gangs in the city all the while you must complete 
 the minor missions to gain respect in order to play the major missions. 
  
  This may sound tedious but at the end of the day you are spoily for choice as to what you can do 
 for these minor missions. My favourite missions were fight club where you fight off hordes of enemies 
 in an arena and my other favourite was the classic insurance fraud where you jump in front of cars 
 to gain money. Again this isnt a deep experience but man it is so much fun. 
  
  Another thing that I like that most will argue to the contrary that the characters are just bad 
 people. In GTA IV you get the story of Niko whp deep down is a good person with a violent past. 
 In this game you get characters that kill major players in the other gangs just for the fun of 
 it and the only regret they have is not asking questions before shooting the vicitm. There is something 
 refreshing about playing a game that doesn't have a mightier than thou attitude. This game knows 
 what it is and is proud of it. GTA IV is your complete experience while Saints Row 2 is the full 
 on action experience that never takes itself seriously.
  
  Play it, Love it, thank me later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: go0db0y
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2
  
  
  
  
  Finally, at 3 pm today, I got SR2. I was so eager to play this game when I got home. So I hurried 
 to my xbox 360 and inserted the game. Soon as I turned it on, I saw the cool volition thingy which 
 made me a little bit more jumpy. 
  
  
  Making my own character excited my brain. I tried out many different types of hair, taunt, and 
 more. Controls were very easy to get use to. I only spend, like 5 min just trying to figure out 
 what the controls were. Graphics were great. Some of people said this game's graphics were horrible........ well 
 they're maybe blindfolding themselves or they're blind. The city looks beautiful! Trust me, all 
 those youtube + other videos you saw are not the same as when you look at it in your t. v. 
  
  
  
  SR2 has many new features. Throwing, bodysheilding, new fighting systems and much more. 
 My favorite new feature was the respect system. Everything that I did mattered!! In SR1 respect 
 bar didn't go up when you did a powerslide or a big jump. But now if you do something cool, you 
 get a little bit of respect points. Another new features were new vehicles. Motorcyles, boats, 
 airplanes, and that huge Ultor vehicle. Volition really did their job this time. There are so many 
 new features, but I don't write them all down.
  
  
  SR2 is better than GTA4. I know it for sure. I used to love GTA4 but now I'm on SR2's side. Trust 
 meeeeeeeee!! If you are still confused about getting SR2 or GTA4, get SR2. I was just like you!!!! 
 So get your big ass off of that chair and go to bestbuy then buy SR2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrico11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  This game has some pretty hilarious things you can do in it. The formulas very similar to the first 
 version with noticeable improvements. Most of the side jobs no longer have 10 levels so they aren't 
 as hard. You can play as either male, female or whatever and change mid game if you want. The gameplay 
 is solid. Aside from the overzealous physics you can literally throw people several feet for instant 
 kills. The driving controls are good some crashes will send you flying though. The gunplay is just 
 a reticule you aim but it works you cant use cover only crouch but is you keep moving you'll be 
 fine. Most missions have checkpoints so if you die you wont have to do it all again. The game graphics 
 aren't exactly next gen but they work and aren't terrible. Its not too long about 40 hours to complete 
 all they activities and story. The story is good as is the voice acting. The side activities are 
 the unique part. You can steal hookers, protect your drug dealer with an missile equipped attack 
 helicopter, and paint the town with septic crap, to name a few. The games just fun and its the 
 lack of realism that's makes it so. Definitely worth a play through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RE4_Tipsters
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I used to hate Saints Row, Infact, I wanted the craze to go away. But then i gave it one more chance 
 with Saints Row 2, and im happy with the series now. They improved everything they needed that 
 was getting on my nerves, No longer to you just play Insurance Fraud because all the others finished 
 to quickly, Now there are like 10 more NEW activitys that where fun as hell. The one that really 
 impressed me was Crowd Control, being able to protect a celeb while trowing crazed fans of the 
 roof of a like 100 foot building is a giant thumbs up for me. Now, the game features a better soundtrack, 
 too. So people can sing along to their favorite songs from today including Paramore, My Chemical 
 Romance, Nelly, Panic! At The Disco, Taking Back Sunday (F***in' love them.) and many more from 
 all genres. The only problem for me personally is the multiplayer, its almost the same as last 
 year, People start playing it to much and now how to kill a person within like 3 seconds.
  
  
  Overall:
  Saints Row 2 has solid gameplay and fresh enviorment that gamers want to destroy, 
 but just seems to hold back unlike GTA, we're they redesigned the whole game and made it perfect. 
 This is a must buy for every gamer out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is the sequel to what is actually the first open world next gen console game, Saints 
 Row. It of course will be forever linked to the Grand Theft Auto series of which it *ahem* "borrows" 
 a great deal. To THQ's credit, they have dropped any pretense at duplicating GTA and in fact take 
 an opposite approach by simply going totally over the top in every way it can. In many ways it 
 hits the mark it's looking for, for better or worse.
  
  Story - About as pedestrian as you can possibly get. You're out for revenge, and to reclaim the 
 hood and show the other rival gangs who's boss. In fairness, Saints Row 2 doesn't even bother to 
 try to match the brilliant storytelling of Grand Theft Auto 4. This game is about everything else 
 but the story.
  
  Graphics - If you liked the look of Saints Row then you'll like Saints Row 2. It's only marginally 
 better. The landscape is huge and looks good but there is no huge improvement over the original. 
 There is the rare freezing issue which requires a re-boot as well as pop-ups and leaky framerate 
 which is so common you just get used to it. All in all, not what you would expect from a sequel 
 years into the 360's existence.
  
  Gameplay - There are a ton of fun things to do in Saints Row 2. I mean a TON! Customization of 
 everything from your character to cars to your gang to your cribs, it goes on and on. The fun of 
 Saints Row 2 is completely in the true open world mentality of the game. There are dozens of challenging 
 and entertaining activities throughout the city that will provide hours of fun by themselves. You 
 could remove the campaign story from this game altogether and still have something well worth playing. 
 All of this can also be done in co-op with a friend over XBox Live and works perfectly. Multiplayer 
 is still very borderline in quality. Not nearly the train wreck that Saints Row was but still not 
 great.
  
  Haters of the Grand Theft Auto series will consider Saints Row 2 the best thing since sliced bread. 
 That is certainly not the case. Hardcore GTA fans will consider this game beneath their notice 
 and that isn't fair either. GTA 4 is like a fine meal at a five star restaurant and Saints Row 
 2 is like a really good pepperoni pizza. And who doesn't like pizza?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tetrasoft
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  After playing the GTA series and several of the other games that it spawned clones of. I was really 
 taken off guard with Saints Row 1 when I bought it in a bargin bin. I loved the open feel to that 
 game and all the side things you could do. Now fast forward to Saints Row 2. They storyline is 
 pretty good and a few of the characters from the first title make a comeback once more. I must 
 say the storyline is a pretty good and its enjoyable from start to finish. The custom character 
 creation feature makes this game even more fun. Add to that all of the side jobs and activities 
 and you get allot of what GTA should have included but did not in their game. As a whole the game 
 is very fun to play with a few bugs here and there. The pop up was not as bad as in GTA4. The ability 
 to customize your cribs and buy property just added more depth to the game. It seems they toned 
 some of the side quests down and some of the activities do not seem as over the top as the first 
 but the new ones they added really add to the fun. If you loved Saints Row 1 then you do not want 
 to miss this sequel. They really pull the game back on track and I look forward to the 3rd in the 
 series!! I rate this game a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcs0710
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:05 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is everyones favorite Rip-Off aside from Rock Band and EA Skate, the funny thing about 
 all these Rip-Offs is I like the Rip-Offs better than all the originals. I like Rock Band better 
 than Guitar Hero, I like EA Skate better than Tony Hawk games and I like Saints Row 2 better than 
 the (unknown) game. I prefer those three because they are more fun. The Story of Saints Row 2 will 
 not win awards but this is expected, but the dialogue should, it has some of the ronchiest funniest 
 lines I have ever heard, it might be a bit to much at points but it is defidently Kevin Smith worthy. 
 The Story is you wake up after getting seriously messed up from the first game, and you get to 
 feel what it's like to be a celebrity using plastic surgery and create your character as a silly, 
 stupid or serious alter ego for the story campaign, you wake up in a prison and have to bust out 
 finding out that all the objectives that you had to do in the first game don't mean anything in 
 this game because the "Third Street Saints" have fallen to pieces. The voice acting in the story 
 is great, especially the created characters, even though there are 3 male voices I only liked the 
 "Male Voice 1" (the Australian accent) . As far as gameplay goes the gameplay is the strongest point 
 of the game, lets just say I could make a three hour video just listing all the things you can 
 do. About the graphics, well the graphics are not the key point of the game, but I don't play games 
 for good graphics, I play them for good games, lets leave it at that. Their is also a tremendous 
 amount of detail, when it starts raining people will pull out umbrellas, there is an interactive 
 ragdoll system that will put a smile on your face, and even when you stand around you can listen 
 in on peoples conversations and listen to their perverted or sarcastic vocabulary, thats cool. 
 I remember I shot this one guy in the face with a Pump shotgun and a civilian ran away and said 
 "I should move back to Liberty City!" WTF! they should get sued, of course that is funny but not 
 tolerable. I mean of they Rip-Off Grand Theft Auto but they even mention it in the game! Overall 
 the only thing I can say is GO BUY SAINTS ROW 2! Overall 8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game21x
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  The story picks up five years after the events of the first Saints Row. The player character has 
 been in a trauma induced coma (players who finished the first game should know why) for the past 
 five years, in which time the titular 3rd Street Saints have fallen apart and three new gangs have 
 risen to power in their place. It is here that you're introduced to the incredibly deep character 
 creation system, which allows you to choose your gender, (the character was unchangeably male in 
 the original) voice tone (he was mostly mute too) , fighting style, appearance, and even their positive 
 and negative taunts. Once the player and a new accomplice have staged a daring escape from the 
 prison island where they are held, it's once again up to you to bring the Saints back to their 
 former prominence as the unofficial rulers of Stilwater. 
  
  In terms of storytelling, there are times when Saints Row 2 shows much improvement over the original 
 and others when it seems Volition desperately needs some help. On the plus side, their skill in 
 creating well directed and often wildly over the top cutscenes has improved, making Saints Row 
 2 a more cinematic experience than the original. Another positive is the efforts taken to bridge 
 the gap between the original and Saints Row 2. Unfortunately, they still need a bit of work in 
 the crucial area of pacing, which varies wildly throughout the storyline. For instance, there are 
 a few moments in the story that tug at the ol' heartstrings but are pushed aside in the very next 
 instant and never brought up again. Those of you who have played the original Saints Row will recognize 
 a number of familiar faces, either in glorified cameos, or, in the case of your psychopathic cohort 
 Johnny Gat, slightly deeper roles. 
  
  The city of Stilwater itself has changed considerably in the five years the protagonist has been 
 out of commission. Many neighborhoods have seen drastic redesigns, while others have received only 
 minor alterations. Traveling around the city evokes feelings of nostalgia while at the same time 
 providing a pleasant sense of unfamiliarity. 
  
  During the last five years in which the Saints fell from grace, three new gangs have arrived in 
 Stilwater and have divided the streets of Stilwater among them, leaving the Saints in complete 
 disarray. The Brotherhood, Ronin and Sons of Samedi all have their own story arcs that unfold independently 
 of the others. Unlike the gangs in first Saints Row, these gangs seem to lack a certain personality. 
 The narrative surrounding the new gangs is pretty weak overall, even though there are a few good 
 moments here and there.
  
  As a third person shooter, Saints Row 2 is thoroughly entertaining, if lacking in refinement and 
 subtlety. Unlike GTA IV, andpretty much every third person shooter these days, there is no environmental 
 cover system, placing emphasis on running and gunning over tactical planning. Despite or perhaps 
 because of this, rooms filled with a half dozen or more heavily armed gang members were barely 
 a challenge, even on medium difficulty. In spite of there not being an environmental cover system, 
 you do have the ability to take human shields with the press of a button, easing your progress 
 even more. The main protagonist is not only gifted with a regenerating health bar, but also the 
 ability to shrug off bullets and even the occasional RPG round as if they were Nerf darts, making 
 confrontations almost excessively easy. 
  
  The original Saints Row was praised due to its physics engine which, at the time anyway, was among 
 the best in its genre. Saints Row 2 takes no risks in terms of handling physics, which feel entirely 
 unrealistic. Even the new vehicles, consisting of not only motorcycles but sea and air vehicles 
 have their own handling quirks and take a bit of time to get used to. There are times when the 
 physics can go suddenly awry during collisions and sometimes even while driving down the street 
 or flying around but that has more to do with the physics engine as a whole.
  
  At any given time, you are prone to random physics glitches. For example, I was once walking around 
 in my downtown loft when suddenly, I turned toward a group of bar stools and they spontaneously 
 exploded into a pile of splinters. Another particularly annoying instance of the physics bugging 
 out occurred while I was in the middle of a particularly long mission. I jumped rather haphazardly 
 into a shallow ditch and when I hit the ground, my body was flung a dozen feet into the air, causing 
 me to die upon landing and forcing me to restart the mission. Cue frustrated controller throwing. 
 
  
  Saints Row 2 specializes in the absurd, not only granting you the freedom to do such outlandish 
 things as base jump from the top of a skyscraper or run recklessly around town wearing nothing 
 but a dopey grin but rewards you for doing so. The sheer number of activities to partake in is 
 quite staggering and there's never a shortage of different things to do. This sense of boundless 
 freedom is one of Saints Row 2's defining characteristics. It puts you in the sandbox, tells you 
 to go nuts and doesn't bother you in the slightest. 
  
  Like the original, Saints Row 2 features a number of side missions for the player to play in between 
 story missions. All of the activities from the first Saints Row return in the sequel alongside 
 several new ones to further expand on the already impressive variety. New standouts include the 
 incredibly ridiculous Septic Avenger which puts you behind the wheel of a septic truck, painting 
 the town brown with a steady stream of foul liquids and Fight Club, an obvious homage to the cult 
 classic film, which shows off Saints Row 2's deeper melee system. Stalwart activities from the 
 original are as fun as they've ever been in the sequel and I must say, there's something oddly 
 cathartic about the insane killing sprees incited by the Mayhem activity and throwing yourself 
 in front of cars in Insurance Fraud.
  
  The ability to customize practically everything around you has expanded considerably in Saints 
 Row 2. Along with the obligatory enhancements to vehicle, clothing and accessory customization, 
 there are a wealth of new things just waiting to be customized. Around Stilwater, there are a number 
 of safe houses to buy, all of which can be upgraded from dingy domiciles to classy cribs. Even 
 the look overall style of the 3rd Street Saints can be customized and I have to say, it's awfully 
 cool to walk down the street with a gang of well armed ninjas at your command. 
  
  The most brilliant new addition to the series is undoubtedly the co-op mode. As long as you're 
 not currently engaged in a mission or activity, players can join your single player game in progress 
 and the two of you are free to do whatever you want in the streets of Stilwater. All of the activities, 
 story missions and diversions have been optimized for co-op play and is greatly encouraged. Going 
 through the game with a partner in crime is a joy that makes it the best way to take on the gangs 
 of Stilwater, or just have fun doing whatever comes to mind, be it group drive bys or beating miscreants 
 senseless in the FUZZ activity. 
  
  As far as the competitive multiplayer modes go, Saints Row 2 includes the Gangsta Brawl and Team 
 Gangsta Brawl (deathmatch and team deathmatch) from the original and a new mode called Strong Arm. 
 Strong Arm plants two teams in a neighborhood and tasks them with completing a certain number of 
 activities to earn a certain amount of money to win the match. The activities are culled from the 
 single player story and scaled down a bit to fit the confines of multiplayer. It's a bit sad that 
 the older modes like Protect the Pimp were cut from the sequel but Strong Arm makes for a nice 
 replacement. Overall, much like the original, the competitive multiplayer experience is largely 
 forgettable.
  
  Saints Row was never much of a looker and in that respect; nothing has changed. Many of the same 
 visual problems that plagued the original rear their ugly heads once more in Saints Row 2. Screen 
 tearing is back in abundance, though it can thankfully be disabled in the options menu, although 
 at the expense of the overall framerate. Scenes are also frequently marred by considerable aliasing, 
 a relatively minor annoyance but an annoyance just the same. Pop-in was also an issue, more so 
 with cars and characters than the landscape. It seemed that each time I moved the camera around, 
 the cars off screen would disappear. Character models in general have received a noticeable visual 
 upgrade in the finer details of clothing and skin complexion, making them look more human. Overall, 
 the game is passable considering its sandbox nature but, to bring up GTA IV once again, the bar 
 has been raised considerably in terms of the visuals we should expect from an open world title. 
 
  
  Audio presentation hasn't changed much since the first Saints Row. There is a standard selection 
 of radio stations, offering up tunes from various genres. The soundtrack isn't exactly amazing 
 but it gets the job done. Sound effects from the first game have returned once again, making for 
 a relatively familiar sounding experience. Voice work is one of the audio highlights in Saints 
 Row 2, improving on the first with a great voice cast. On occasion, it does sound like the voice 
 actors and actresses are going through the motions in delivering their lines, but these occurrences 
 are thankfully rare. 
  
  Saints Row 2 is, at its heart, obnoxious, crude and immature almost to a fault, capitalizing on 
 the void left by the Grand Theft Auto series, providing mindless entertainment that rarely fails 
 to deliver. By embracing and expanding on this premise of mindless fun, Saints Row 2 has moved 
 out of GTA's immense shadow and made a name for itself. With all of the additions Volition has 
 made to Saints Row 2, it almost feels like an entirely different game. What it lacks in terms of 
 polish and refinement, it makes up for in over the top wackiness. If that sounds like your cup 
 of tea, especially if you disliked the new direction taken by GTA IV, Saints Row 2 may be right 
 up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricN113
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
 crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vgplaya89
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  In 2006, a little sandbox game by the name of Saints Row appeared on the scene, as a worthy contender 
 to the Grand Theft Auto series' crown as king of the open world crime genre. many had tried, many 
 had failed, but Saints Row proved itself to be a worthy contender.
  
  fast forward two years and two million copies sold later, Saints Row 2 is on store shelves for 
 Xbox 360, PS3, and PC, hot on the trail of Grand Theft Auto IV.
  
  Story: The game picks up about five years after the original's True ending. you took over the city, 
 but then were blown up on a boat. your body was maimed beyond recognition. a member of the Saints 
 appears and helps you bust out of prison, but it's not the same Stillwater you remember. the Ultor 
 corporation has spent years and millions of dollars rebuilding it, and the Saints have all but 
 disbanded, along with all the other gangs. three new gangs, the Ronin, the Sons of Samedi, and 
 The Brotherhood, all take their places. your job is to rebuild the Saints, and take back what's 
 yours once again. 
  
  All in all, I liked the story. a lot of interesting twist and turns, and maintains the series's 
 tasteless humor with a somewhat darker tone.
  
  Graphics: Not as good as some of the games released this year, but they get the job done. the character 
 models are much more detailed than the original, the characters move more fluidly, and there's 
 more of a sense of speed in the vehicles. the city itself looks great. it's gone from a complete 
 ghetto, to an urban utopia, that is nice to look at and explore.
  
  Gameplay: Here's where the game really outdoes itself. in GTAIV, when you weren't going through 
 the same old mundane "go here, kill him, escape" missions, weren't you hoping there would be a 
 bit more variety, or more to do on the side? Saints Row 2 does that in spades.
  
  The actual gameplay is quite improved. you can zoom in aim, take human shields, throw people, do 
 melee combos, etc. you can also dual-wield some weapons, which there are many more of this time 
 around. 
  
  all the weapons from the original make a comeback, with some new and fun additions such as the 
 Stun Gun, Katana, Butterfly Knife, Grenade-equipped assault rifle, and the ability to pick up objects 
 off the ground and use them to bludgeon people.
  
  Volition obviously heard the complaints about the vehicles in the original. there are many cars, 
 bikes, helicopters, boats, jet skis, even planes to toy around with. they all handle quite decently. 
 where GTAIV tried to make the vehicles more realistic, for better or worse, SR2 goes the more arcadey 
 route, letting you pull off turns and drifts with ease. add that with the fact that you can still 
 customize vehicles all you want. 
  
  speaking of customization, it is still a staple of the Saints Row series. the plot device in the 
 beginning of the game allows you to create a character of many races, and either gender. your character 
 also has a voice and a personality this time around, and you can choose that as well. you can also 
 choose the style of your gang, customize your cribs/safehouses, vehicles, etc.
  
  nearly all the activities from the original, such as Snatch, Street Racing, Drug Trafficking, and 
 Insurance Fraud return, and are reworked to be more fun, with a few more new ones on top of that. 
 plus little diversions and minigames here and there that you can discover on your own. If you're 
 the kind of gamer that likes to do and see everything the game has to offer, you will be playing 
 this for many hours after the game's conclusion.
  
  Online: This is one part of the game that is hit or miss. they took out a few modes of the original, 
 leaving Gangsta Brawl and Team Gangsta Brawl, and the new mode, Strong Arm. Gangsta Brawl is somewhat 
 fun, but cheapened by horrible spawn points and lack of balance. Strong Arm is quite fun however. 
 you go through mini-versions of activities from the single player game on teams, in an effort to 
 control as much territory as possible. there is enough variety in this mode to forgive the loss 
 of Protect Tha Pimp and Big Chains. Blinged Out Ride is sorely missed though.
  
  This is sweetened slightly by the fact that you can play the entire single player game with a friend 
 via co-op, Crackdown style. it is quite a blast playing single player by yourself, but just imagine 
 it with one of your own homies at your side, wreaking havoc.
  
  
  Conclusion: Saints Row 2 is a more-than-worthy sequel, and in my opinion, more FUN than its obvious 
 competition. I highly reccomend it to fans of sandbox games, especially those jaded by GTAIV's 
 newfound realism.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  SAINTS ROW 2 REVIEW
  
  GTA became a unique game, it became revolutionary in fact allowing the player to do a mission however 
 and whenever he/she wishes to do it. Of course, it wasn't too long before other developers were 
 inspired by this idea and decided to go ahead and do it themselves, most of which ended up utter 
 rubbish or just not good enough. Driv3r is an example, although its previous games were released 
 when GTA was still an overhead side-scroller, it really wanted to be the next GTA... but it failed 
 miserably. But then the next-gen consoles get put on the shelves and volition (those known for 
 developing Red Faction) popped up out of no-where with the game, Saints Row! Surprisingly enough, 
 it sold very well and got given the 'Classic' game case. A couple years later, Rockstar release 
 the long awaited GTA 4 which sells millions and before you know it, nobody cares about Saints Row 
 anymore. But what's this? Saints Row 2?! Could this be better than GTA 4?!
  
  The answer is... no. Although Saints Row 2 has some really good ideas and has lots of activities 
 to keep you entertained, it's rather childish, repetitive and somehow annoying at times. One thing 
 is for sure though, Saints Row 2 does a good job of reminding GTA fans of San Andreas as it has 
 you taking over enemy gang territories, pimping out your ride to your hearts consent, styling your 
 character, having huge gang wars and finally, feeling like you own the whole of the city. Saints 
 Row 2 isn't a bad game; it just doesn't beat GTA 4 when it comes to a free-roaming game. The vehicle 
 control is one example, it's hard to control a car and shoot at the same time when you most need 
 it, because you'll have to put your vehicle into 'Cruise Mode' which means it sticks to the same 
 speed you set it to so you can look around and shoot whomever you wish, however, when it comes 
 to turning corners, shooting and hand braking, that's when it gets tricky. 
  
  When it comes to combat on foot, it becomes ridiculously easy at times, just grab an enemy to use 
 him/her as a human shield, his team won't dare shoot in case they hit him, so then you can just 
 go ahead and blow them away. They do however try to sneak round the back of you so they can shoot 
 you, but your human shield will make no attempt to make a run for it so you can just go ahead and 
 blow his brains out. Apart from the human shield, there is no cover system apart from the basic 
 crouch behind a box trick or the strafe to the left and to the right manoeuvre. There are still 
 a couple of things to enjoy about the combat while on foot... well for one there are lots of weapons 
 to choose from, AK-47s, M4s, Rocket Launchers, Satchel Charges, Uzis... Samurai Swords, even the 
 odd chainsaw is hanging around here and there. Saints Row 2 also allows you to use almost anything 
 in the streets as a weapon such as bin bags or stop signs, phone boxes or pedestrians (honest, 
 you can throw people into other people) , and if that isn't good enough for you, you can recruit 
 some 3rd Street Saints gang members to your side and use them as your own bodyguards!
  
  The story of Saints Row 2 isn't anything too special; it just basically finishes off the last part 
 of the story from Saints Row 1. The missions have some good variety although most just require 
 you to just kill a huge group of gang members or blowing up things. The game can get annoying as 
 some missions require you to chase someone down in a car, but then some idiotic driver in car will 
 get in your way causing you to crash and lose the target, or you'll be on foot with just a bit 
 of health, trying to heal and some dick comes round a corner and blows you in the face with a shotgun. 
 However, this can be played FULLY through co-op via Xbox Live/System Link and once you've had enough 
 of the story, you can play some of the activities that the game has in store for you. Some of them 
 are interesting, while others are just plain boring. The activities that may keep you playing for 
 quite some time are those such as 'Hit man' where you get given a list of people to take out, and 
 you must wonder through the city with the details you've been given to find your target. There's 
 also a mode named 'Mayhem' which is one of my personal favourites because... well basically you've 
 got a rocket launcher, unlimited ammo and a whole lotta stuff that needs destroying for money... 
 think about it.
  
  Speaking of money, Saints Row 2 gives you a hell of a lot of stuff to spend it on. Unlike GTA 4 
 where you could only really buy food, a few clothes and weapons, in Saints 2 you can buy cribs, 
 cars, weapons, boats, shops, hookers... you get the picture. The customisation in this game really 
 is limitless, if you're the type who enjoys creating and designing your own character, you'll spend 
 hours doing so in this game. You can buy loads of different clothing, piercings, jewerly, tattoos, 
 hair styles, or you can mod your car to the top by designing the colors or adding new designs. 
 You can even buy a crib and customise that too, or even your gang, or even your characters fighting 
 style! Yeah, the list goes on and on when it comes to customising in Saints Row 2.
  
  So while Saints Row 2 tries to be as anti-GTA as possible (you only need to watch the commercial 
 to know what I'm on about) , it has its ups and downs. It's a lot of fun, especially if you have 
 a friend to play it in co-op, but the game is a bit too easy and some parts can get annoying. If 
 you're a huge free-roaming fan, this may be worth the purchase, but if you're happy with your GTA 
 4, this might not be worth the rush, a rent perhaps? 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: homey4life
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Well, to start off I would like to get the comparisons to gta 4 out of the way. saints row to is 
 a sandbox game with crazy cars, weapons, and vehicles. Compared to gta 4, Saints Row to is much 
 more "out there." Its story line is much more crazy and funny, but that doesn't mean it's well 
 done. Actually, I say the story of Saints Row 2 is extremely well done with excellent voice acting 
 and believeable characters. Now lets get onto the review. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't 5-star quality, but they aren't ugly neither. I'd say their pretty 
 decent. Times of glitches, hick-ups, and texture pop-outs are pretty frequent in the game, but 
 they really don't affect gameplay that much. cut-scenes are good quality, but they don't have that 
 "wow" factor that other games have. I don't know if it's only me, but the graphics of saints row 
 2 compared to saints row 1 are very different. In Saints Row 2, they look more pixelated and animated, 
 like a pixar movie. Overall I'd give the graphics and 8.7
  
  Sound: The sound in the game is top-notch. Voice acting is extremely believeable, and things such 
 as explosions, shootings, planes, music, etc sound very fluent and well done. Speaking of music, 
 the soundtrack of Saints ROw 2 is very good, better than GTA 4's in my opinion. OVerall, I'd give 
 sound a 9.5
  
  Gameplay: The main element of a game is of course its gamplay, and Siants Row 2 defininetly delivers. 
 It's more fun and cooky style really brings out this games trademark style. Mini-games such as 
 spraying homes with a sewer machine filled with poo is hilarious and killing hordes of zombies 
 is always entertaining. The story and gameplay always kept me hooked, even when I had already beaten 
 the game. Driving in this game is more arcae-style compared to GTA 4's realistic appeal. I much 
 prefer Saints Row 2's driving style because its just more fun and easy to use. Overall, I'd give 
 gamplay a 9.5.
  
  Lasting Appeal/ Value: Games these days are pricey. Thats why some games give you some bang for 
 your buck and Saints Row 2 is one of them. The main story takes about 15-35 hours to beat depending 
 on what difficulty. I beat the game in 21hrs on medium difficulty, and in 25hrs on hardcore. Even 
 after beating the game there is still much mroe to do. As I previously stated, mini-games always 
 keep you coming for more. I still can't get enough of Fuzz which is where your a cop on one of 
 those cop shows, except the twist is that you always use brute force to get juicy TV footage. I 
 laughed every time! Overall, the lasting appeal/ value is a 9.3.
  
  Overall, I'd give Saints Row 2 a 9.5. It''s an exceptional game even with it's bugs and glitches. 
 Voice acting is great, and gameplay is top-notch. I recommend this game as a must BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-dog595
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Whats there to say? Sub-par graphics with a mix of GTA. BORING!!! The game is not orginal in any 
 aspect. Now granted I think its great the game try's to hit and make better aspects of the first 
 game and GTA, for example taking over hoods and holding them. I like that bit. But the game is 
 not narrow enough. The focus is so broad I am not sure what the hell is going on most the time. 
 Other than the ronnin trying to kill me. The game really lacks there, in the sense that it is not 
 presented well. I feel the city scape as well is lacking. There is nothing in this game that makes 
 it stand out. But for all its flaws, it does have some fun moments. And besides the fact being, 
 is that most games don't live up to this level. Thats a sad thing. Think about it...
  
  Most games just don't have what it takes to be rated better than a 3, but I say this still gets 
 a seven. Funny how millions in production spending amount to this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leonsa85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Some aspects of the game are even better than in GTA IV, but in overall the car control and combat 
 mode and the overall story make the game "not quite". The creation mode, crib redecoration, ability 
 to purchase some businesses and etc. is what the game has better than GTA IV, but the overall story, 
 missions, car controls and combat modes make a game little bit unreal. . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . .. .. . . . .. . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . ......................... ....... .......................... 
 ......................  ....................... ..... . . . . 
 . . . . .................. ....  .............. 
 .... ... .... ... ..... ... .... ... ... .... .  2 3 45 5 76 9 9 
 4de f afa s da as asf f e e a s s s as 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  In this open world game you are a thug member that you can create. You can create your thug by 
 picking the race you want it to be. The gender. If she/he is fat or skinny. That is all how you 
 can create your character to start off with. When you begin you are knocked out and then you wake 
 up and you meet another thug that you work with to get out of jail. After you do the escape out 
 of jail mission then you are open to do what ever you want. You can explore the city, go shopping, 
 (which will be hard because you dont have ant money to start off with) or you can do the story 
 missions or the side missions. If you do the story mission then the person that you meet in jail 
 takes you to his gang and you meet the leader of your old gang. After you do each story mission 
 you need to get respect by gaining respect you have to do some tricks in your car or you need to 
 kill other gang members. There are some really hard side missions and they are really easy to fail 
 on. The camera is also not the best suite for the game because it is really terrible. There are 
 really nice cars in the game that are really strong. Another thing that the game deosn't need is 
 the cheats those are so terrible because you can't get achievements. There are also stores around 
 that sell you clothes, food, and guns. The graphics for the game is not the best but they are okay.
 
  
  The good of the game is that there are really nice stuff. The graphics are alright. The sound is 
 amazing. There is plenty of stuff to do.
  
  The bad of the game is that the camera is terrible. There are some stuff in the game that is really 
 not needed.
  
  Overall this game is really good and for people who likes open world and has played the first Saints 
 Row game or Gran Theft Auto. I give this game 9.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsomniacZombie
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Getting the sequel to the awesome Saints Row was a no brain decision. But after playing it, I was 
 very impressed on how great this game is. 
  
  The obvious comparison to GTA has to be made, and Saints Row definitely made some great strides 
 to narrowing the gap to the king of the driving shooting gang war style game.
  
  The story is a solid continuation of the first game, where you pick up recovering from a coma where 
 everyone is stunned at what the see (cue the character customization)
  
  The controls are pretty good (with no lock on shooting THANK GOD) . Some of the cars are a little 
 wild to drive and there are a few glitches ive seem to fall into. Personally I adapted the default 
 controls at the start, but as long as that option is there, I'm happy.
  
  There are plenty of side missions to keep you busy when your get tired of whooping on guys without 
 your gang colors. The Mayhem is back, but too short and too easy. Pimping, taking dives and racing 
 all return, with some new and original side games. You strap on a cop uniform and take a camera 
 crew out on the beat to show the dark side of "law enforcement" and pull out your best suit to 
 be the bodyguard to the stars.
  
  My one major problem (hence only the 8) is some of the rewards you unlock. I wasnt even half way 
 through the game and **SPOILER** after finishing one of the escort missions ( I think, maybe was 
 another one) I was rewarded with.. UNLIMITED SMG ammo. Now I feel like I've put in a cheat code. 
 And the game was way too easy after that.
  
  Overall. This game is awesome and Saints Row should be around for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tvsocks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 REVIEW
  The Game is out and here is my review of Saints Row 2. I some times compare this is GTA4 (Grand 
 Theft Auto 4) , with that said I own GTA4 and i do like it so i am not pick sides, any who on with 
 SR2 review.
  
  Challenge 7.5
  
  Some parts are a little to easy and other your have to retry a couple times. Like i said some are 
 to easy but still very fun like for me Insurance Fruad is way to easy to beat but we and my friend 
 compete for the highest score. And then some things are pretty hard, like When you Hi-Jack a car 
 and start Hostage i cant complete most of them i get pinned by cops and fail. But of course this 
 is my opinion some parts might be harder for some people or easier.
  
  Character Customization 10
  Height, Weight, Sex, Voice, Make-up, Clothes, Race, facial expression, 
 How you walk, Cars, your gang, your crib, and fighting styles. If that is not enough i don't know 
 what is. The only way they could have gone farther is blood type, how often you use the bathroom, 
 and how many hairs are on your butt.
  
  Controls 8.0
  The control setup is standard. The car wrecks are more detailed in GTA4 and drive more realistic, 
 how ever it is still quite fun. It is like a FPS one shot your dead or pumping your foe with tons 
 of lead, both fun but differant. And something GTA4 didn't have is Cruise Control to make drive-bys 
 easier or to launch your car in a crowed of enemies... or pedestrians. You can pick up many things 
 to beat down your enemies or random people, like stop signs, trash bags, trash cans, or a bottle. You 
 can swing and hit them or throw the items at them. You can take anyone hostage by grabbing them 
 and use them as a shield and then throw them when they have served there purpose.
  
  Graphics/Animation 8.5
  Not as much detail as GTA4, but still a major upgrade from Saints Row 
 1. Lots of cool animations, different fight styles, and of course how you walk. you can walk normal 
 or like a pimp or a druggie needing a fix and much more. Also in water you can make alot of wake 
 (waves) and then luanch off them or other boats wake
  
  Interface 9.0
  Very nice interface, especially since GTA4 ripped off of it from Saints Row 1.
  
  Length 9.0
 
  The main story line is fairly long and then there a bunch or extra activates. You can easily get 
 70 hours out it, When i got to 30hours i was at the 35% completion mark. and of course you can 
 get more hours by messing around with friends online and stuff.
  
  Sound 8.0
  I love guns so i was a little disappointed when i heard what they sounded like in this game. When 
 i play a game with guns (unless they are made up guns) i want they to sound like they would in 
 real life. Now there sounds were not bad but for me I have higher standards. The voice acting was 
 very nice. Cars sounded good and the radio was nice.
  
  Storyline 7.5
  Picks up where SR1 left off, but with new enemies of course. Now a lot of drama or intensive story 
 but a very good one none the less.
  
  So all in all a 8.5 very fun, very goofy, very customizable. I would recommend this over GTA4. 
 I also wrote a review on GTA4 and here is the link http://happystriketeam. com/forum/viewtopic. php? f=6&t=55
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dizzycop911
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I have been really looking forward to this game coming out and I wasn't disapointed. It has a great 
 story and great voice acting, the graphics arn't that good but they are ok. My favourite part of 
 the game is the customization, you custimize almost anything from your crib, your car, your person 
 and your gang. Alot of people have been critising the driving but I think it's fine. You can drive 
 almost anything like cars, motorbikes, boats, helicopters and planes. Even a secret UFO.
  
  As for the weapons there are alot and its really fun to just go around and go on a rampage. Alot 
 of people have been saying that the driving is rubbish but I think is fine.
  
  The story is great I think its all about revenge, and some of it is just like the first saints 
 row where you have to defeat all the gangs and then do the last main mission. I won't say anyore 
 about the story I don't want to ruin it or anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrandTheftC12
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:55 am PT
Review:  This game is great.
  It is really entertaining, for the most part i like it more than GTA4.
  But i like both of them, this one just has more to do.
  The whole game just has a humorous feel 
 to it.
  It reminds me of a better version of san andreas.
  This is my type of game everything is customization, from the gender to the walk/voice of your character.
 
  It puts you in a city ruled by gangs and you have to rise up and take back your once owned city.
 
  Its far more better than the original saints row.
  Featuring some old characters along with new people and gangs.
  I could play this game over and 
 over again.
  So if you like customization, blowing stuff up, action.
  Then this is your game its all of the above.
  The graphics could have been a little more realistic 
 but im not complaining as long as the game is fun.
  So if your looking for something to keep you entertained.
  Then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is a blast! If you are wanting to play a fun game, pick this up. It's very wide open 
 and there are tons of fun things to do throughout this game and it's just got a very upbeat, funny 
 tone to the whole thing. Here's my breakdown:
  
  Graphics: The game does alright in this section. The models don't look all that great but the explosions 
 look sweet! Damage modeling is pretty good as well.
  
  Gameplay: Overall I think the gameplay is solid for this game. Shooting while driving can be overly 
 hard but it's still do-able.
  
  Audio: The voice acting is awesome in this game and downright hilarious most of the time. Guns 
 and explosions sound really good.
  
  Overall, this game is better than the original and is very fun. There are tons of things to do 
 and will keep you busy for some time! If you liked the first Saints Row at all you need to give 
 this game a go. It's well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuckyLavs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  I picked up GTAIV when it came out. I played it about 6 hours, and it really didn't motivate me 
 to come back. Russian Immigrant from the old country... homogenous big city environment, dark settings... 
 kind of drab.
  
  Saints Row 2 had had me going non-stop. Customizable player -- male or female, customizable gang, 
 customizable cribs. More varied environments. But most of all -- the missions are downright fun. 
 Seriously, I usually wind up playing Saints Row 2 until I run out of time or energy, at the expense 
 of eating or keeping up my own personal health.
  
  Granted, it's not perfect -- There are a couple of issues in it. For example, I might be trailing 
 a specific car for the chop shop -- if it leaves the boundary of the neighborhood I am in to go 
 into a new neighborhood, the car instantly disappears. 
  
  Also, some level 6 activities are really frustrating. 
  But if you have some degree of patience, 
 they are beatable.
  
  But the rest of the game is a blast. Shooting at people from helicopters -- throwing satchel charges 
 out your window and detonating them... You should buy this game because of the sheer fun value. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zack1456
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  single handily one of the best sandbox games out there. it kinda reminds me of the sims with guns. 
 so many choices when it comes to clothes, cars, and other accesories. wide amount of weapons as 
 well. complete with a good storyline and altogether this is an underdog contender for goty as even 
 though the graphics are not as hot as gtaIV, but it leaves you with tons of replayability and complete 
 customization. I was thinking of waiting and spending money on gow2 but i really think that with 
 this game's customization it will beat gow2 campaign anyday. people may say gta is better and that 
 sr is not as good, but i believe that gta was given a very generous score and an 8.0 is just simply 
 unfair. It is about time this game starts getting some justice and the respect it deserves. Once 
 again this is a must buy for anyone who is a great fan of these types of games.
  
  thank you for your time and please consider this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucas145
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  The video game series Saints Row has gone through years of crticism and rough but deserved to the 
 Grand Theft Auto games. The games basically use the gta ideals and put their own spin on it. The 
 spin can be good, like extra gameplay modes and a different visual style. Sadly it also includes 
 terribly thin plots with way too much tacky thug living. Thank goodness the sequel works a little 
 harder on the negative aspects, because i was going to give up on this game.
  
  I wont ruin Saints Row 2's plot first off. If you read the review, you got a taste of the game's 
 story. I'm excited to say that the game opens up so much better than the first, and the island 
 scene in the beginning, again trying not to ruin anything, really puts you into the game. I felt 
 like a white guy thinking that he's a black guy, which is a major theme to the game. 
  
  Next onto the gameplay, which makes or breaks the game. I found that it was much smoother than 
 the first, which wasnt so bad in the first place. The fighting engine has improved, and the increased 
 aim mode helps pick off some head shots, or the newly termed "nut shots". The driving can be iffy 
 sometimes. It's tighter than gta's, but it also sacrifices realism for accessability. Each car 
 does handle differently, but in the end it works 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:24 am PT
Review:  Saints Row received a lot of success as the first open world game for this current generation of 
 consoles, now, two years later we get to see how its sequel stands up in a post GTA4 world. 
  
  Let me get something out of the way nice and early, comparing Saints Row 2 to GTA is a lot 
 like putting Need for speed next to Gran Tourismo; both are fine games and provide very different 
 experiences within their respective genres. That said, there's many possible comparisons I'm could 
 to make, not just to show how saints is the same, but to show how the two differ.
  
  As I mentioned before, Saints 2 is an open world game, it has the usual drill of side missions, 
 gangs, guns and carjacking. However, as games like GTA 4 are being increasingly serious and straight 
 laced, Saints Row 2 takes a why so serious approach, far away from GTA's moral choices and instead 
 the protagonist is downright brutal, but more on that later. The story's layout won't surprise 
 you if you've played the first Saints, the story continues from the previous game and has the same 
 kind of structure, complete a few missions at the start of the game, then the story branches out 
 in three different directions and comes together at the end with some final missions, while you're 
 forced to take side missions along the way to earn enough respect to continue the campaign. The 
 main story has many issues, both technically and creatively; You'll occasionally have to restart 
 a mission because a target simply isn't there, or you'll walk through a door just to die instantly 
 when many enemies instantly spawn through the doorway. One campaign has you dealing with drugs 
 has few memorable moments, others however do have a few hidden surprises and the voice of Michael 
 Dorn is always welcome to anyone who watched the I Am Weasel cartoon, or perhaps the lesson known 
 StarTrek: TNG (Worf) , although most of the other voice work and lip syncing is shaky to say the 
 least. The varying quality of the missions is only equaled by the seemingly random difficulty, 
 one mission may set its self up to be an epic battle just to have break down to be a cakewalk, 
 another seemingly insignificant task may end up challenging your patience as much as your skill.
 
  
  The main story might not be where you spend most of your time in the city of Stillwater, with at 
 least 20 types of side missions to be getting along with, most of which came from the first game, 
 but with a few surprises: 
  Streaking: Remove your clothes and run around in front of pedestrians 
  Septic Avenger: Drive 
 around in a septic truck and cover buildings with poop 
  Fuzz: Stop crime in excessive ways, such as halting the activities of skateboarders with satchel 
 charges 
  Fight club 
  These activities, while mostly fun, can also be the most frustrating part of the game. Rather often 
 they can be just based on the luck of the draw, as the location of any one mission will vary each 
 time you try it and some locations are easier to complete your given objective than others. Although 
 you are required to complete a certain amount of side missions before you can go on in the main 
 quest you'll still want to play these side missions, not only can some of them be a lot of fun 
 or just over the top extreme, but the rewards are great, sometimes perhaps game-breakingly great. 
 Some rewards will simply be a store discount or a new car, for some missions you'll unlock unlimited 
 ammo for a specific type of gun and having the ability to shoot dual SMGs without worry of ammo 
 can make you feel like you're cheating your way through the game. Some of the more amusing un-lockables 
 give you new outfits, such as a traffic cone hat which you'll see your character happily wearing 
 even through the darkest and most twisted cut scenes. 
  
  Dressing your character and gang up as a ninjas or parading around as a giant killer hotdog is 
 only one way of amusing yourself, as the actual character creation can really provide an unhealthy 
 amount of joy. How about making a burly woman with a beard and cockney male voice who swings her 
 hips as she walks, or creating a dude with a heaving chest that talks like a black woman. Personally 
 my favorite character was a skinny white guy with glasses that has a crazy look on his face and 
 a pimp walk. It sounds simply like a fun diversion, but I had tears down my face looking at the 
 freaks of nature I'd created and fortunately for a small fee you can go back and change everything 
 again by just driving to a plastic surgeon. 
  
  Taking these characters into multiplayer highlights the wide variety of customization available 
 and allows you to reenact a 12 player epic Pirate vs Ninja battle. The Strong arm multiplayer mode 
 is a team based battle where each team competes at the varying activities around the map, while 
 you still have the option to just gun down the competition, you can also spray tag certain walls 
 around the map to grant your tam bonuses or to hinder the other team. This makes for a pretty unique 
 experience beyond the usual deathmatch mode which is included but is in no way memorable. One more 
 than memorable option is the ability to play every mission and side mission co-op with a buddy 
 over XBL. The co-op works exactly as expected and opens up some very intrusting ways of doing some 
 of the missions. Even with just two players you can make even the dullest missions far more interesting 
 and the crazy missions even more ridiculous. 
  
  I've mentioned times before about the insanity of the game, but let me give you an example; okay, 
 you need to teach a lesson to a rival do you: 
  A, Place a prank call? 
  B, Knock on his door and run away? 
  C, Buy a geiger counter, take a boat to an island with a 
 power plant, user the geiger counter to locate and collect radioactive waste, escape by helicopter, 
 get shot down, steal a car and drive to his local tattooist, sabotaging the procedure he's planning 
 on having performed? 
  If you picked 'C' then congratulations! You'll fit will into the world of Saints Row 2 and the 
 brutal sadism of the protagonist. You also should probably get yourself checked. 
  
  A quick look comparing Saints Row 2 and GTA 4 will reveal that Saints appears to be a budget game 
 in comparison, and indeed you'll have that impression throughout. There's very little polish, graphics 
 haven't evolved and it all feels like a hodgepodge of ideas thrown into a package. Bugs are rampant, 
 the old trick of jumping on a car and materializing inside still exists, sometimes when trying 
 to jack a police cruiser you'll get in the back and if you look away from a car for just an instant 
 it may vanish. The frustration of these faults can get on top of you, but fortunately there's so 
 much to do that you can always come back to what's troubling you and these foibles are easy to 
 forget when you're having so much fun being involved in the circus of Stillwater. 5/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RJtheShadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  Love the customisation possibilities.
  Both in character, as in apparel.
  Never has the recolouring option been used so well!
  
  The story is suitable for what the game 
 is.
  You are a leader of a quickly-growing gang, and you feel like blowing stuff up and shooting people. 
 WONDERFULL after a stressfull day!
  
  Idiots compare this game to GTAIV.
  GTAIV has character and story depth,
  SR2 lets you have thrashing fun.
  Best mix is to have 
 both. (which I do)
  But don't compare.
  Its like apples and pears.
  
  The weapon and food -slot system is easy to overlook.
  Though sometimes hard to use in mid-action.
 
  
  At times, bugs, glitches.
  As a guy, hate the 'blur' (people'll know what I mean) =P
  
  The array is where it beats GTAIV, tbh.
  I love a big choice, and I missed that there.
 
  Here, the choice isn't super-expanded, but its satisfieing.
  
  Story is tight and right.
  Shame to see Carlos die, but yea, I'm a s*cker on soft moments.
 
  Altogether, a good storyline.
  
  As for the side-activities...
  well...
  
  LOVE THEM!!!
  Really, personal fav is Insurance Fraud.
  GREAT usage of ragdoll technology.
 
  
  MUSTHAVE to anyone who likes stuff that go 'Boom'. Seriously... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XX-DEFCON-1-XX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  -First review-
  
  Saints Row 2 has its goods and bads, but more good then bad.
  
  Right from the start of the game you create your character (which is a biggie to me) , which is 
 insanely customizable, so good that you can make your character look like anyone you want basically. 
 Plus its always fun to edit your character and make him/her look ridiculous then watch them in 
 the cut-scenes. Character creation is and has been absent from the Grand Theft Auto series, which 
 is a plus for SR2.
  
  After creating your character it starts you off from the ending of SR1. From there you basically 
 do as you please, from missions, activities, diversions (mini-activities) , shopping, customizing 
 your vehicles, you name it. The storyline (missions) is pretty good as you take over the hoods, 
 wont get into it so I don't spoil. The activities are simply a thrill, as you do them you'll gain 
 respect and money. Beating all levels of the activities will unlock things such as vehicles to 
 infinity ammo. Activities include racing, drug trafficking, insurance fraud, demolition derby, 
 and more. Then you have your Diversions which includes flying stunts, car stunts, hostages and 
 more.
  
  Vehicles and clothing, the customizations you can do is insane. Every single vehicle is customizable 
 some you may just be able to change rims and colors others everything is customable from different 
 hoods n bumpers to hanging dice on the rearview mirror. Clothing is also insane, every article 
 of clothing is customizable you can change the colors which has over 30+ colors to chose from, 
 wear it low, sideways , dirty whatever you like. Again GTA series has nothing on this. 
  
  Multiplayer, Heres really the only downside of this game and the downside is the verses. Your standard 
 death match (gangster brawl) and team death match (team gangster brawl) is downright horrible, 
 it's a joke. The only thing that saves this is the last game type, strong arm, which is actually 
 really fun you got 2 teams battling it out and at the same time doing activities that are in single 
 player. Then there's Co-op play, playing the whole single player game with a friend which is great 
 to have , and has been needed in this type of game.
  
  Overall this game does beat out GTA4 but not by much GTA online play is better. Its cars and weapons 
 handle and feel better. Saints Row 2 is just more fun to play even after you beat it, and that 
 you can play the entire game co-op, and of course its customizations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DntUknwImLoCo92
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I pre-ordered the game about a week b4 it came and i was really excited about it. I didnt get it 
 till about 2 weeks after it came out because I live in another country, and during that time I 
 read a bunch of reviews which made me not look forward to the game so much.
  
  When I finally got it I played for about an hour and I was already addicted. There is just so much 
 s*** you can do!!! The activities are amazingly fun, the missions are awesome, and of course running 
 around like an idiot stacking an exponentially high body count never gets boring. Ive got to say 
 after playing GTA IV I felt empty inside, like I still needed more. Like the feeling when someone 
 gives you a single skittle and you crave for the whole bag. But Ive got to say Saints Row satisfies 
 me in every way I would like a video game to. After playing this, I wish I had just rented GTA 
 IV, beat it, and gotten rid of it. Sure this game may not have the same drama and emotional impact 
 of GTA, but if I want that Ill get it from a movie, not a sandbox style video game. My favorite 
 part is the co-op. I love rollin through the streets of Stilwater with my best friend at my side 
 as we **** some people up. Its brilliant. The customization is SICK, I love tuning up rides but 
 they went all out with this one, you can customize pretty much everything you control. The guns 
 are absolutely terrific. Its overall just one of the funnest games you will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerr17
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  when i bought this game, i thought it would be more like the first saints row. but when i popped 
 it in and played it, i got an overwelming enjoyment felling because you can do endless customizations 
 on your character, clothes, and cars. not to mention there is plenty of activities and diversions.
 
  bottom line this game is a must buy for any xbox360 or ps3 owner.
  heres my full review.
  gamplay 10/10
  presentation and story line 9/10
  controls 9/10
  graphics 9.5/10
  fun and 
 enjoyment 10/10
  besides the enless options on this game i have to say my favorite thing to do in this game is to 
 make a hot asian girl and go to all the clothes stores and buy up all the clothes. my second favorite 
 thing to do in this game is to get all the cheats enabled and get all the powerful guns in the 
 game and have a giant killing spree shooting though anyone who gets in my way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zexcel
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I have to be honest and say (anyone that has read any of my previous reviews won't be surprised 
 by that statement!) that I've always been first and foremost a Grand theft auto fan growing up. 
 Starting out with the first entry in the series with the top down view on the PC all the way up 
 to arguably one of the best games ever made (San Andress) , the GTA franchise has remained a dominate 
 and necessary slice of sandbox style enjoyment in my game collection. A testament to that statement 
 is that GTA has always been one of those games where you are always eagerly anticipating the release 
 of the next one. 
  
  To me, personally, the golden moment was vice city. Yes, I know the city was way too small and 
 the game was originally designed as an expansion to GTA3 but the introduction of bikes, tacky Miami 
 vice style clothes, the wasteful attitude of the uneducated and the inclusion of the god of day 
 time radio 'Maurice Chavez' made the this journey though 80's gangster pop culture such a fun and 
 unique experience, that in the end I just loved every minute of it. 
  
  But times have changed and unfortunately for me, GTA4 is where the pulse of the previously joy-filled 
 gaming experience flat-lined. There's one thing I have to make clear throughout my love affair 
 with GTA. I have NEVER played any of the games because they were an accurate representation of 
 the gangster life style! 
  
  Why then did it become the games newest and most prominent selling point? Who knows. To me, the 
 overwhelming 'realism' Rockstar tried to convey simply transpired into repetition and outright 
 boredom. One of the more annoying moments is the virtual social life your constantly expected to 
 attend to. If I wanted to have long winded conversations with uninteresting friends and cousins 
 I could do that in real life. Why Rockstar assumes none of us actually have any REAL friends or 
 relatives is beyond me. 
  
  As fate would have it when my brother was visiting me one night, I managed to stumble upon the 
 dark and unforgiving territory of the competition and the supposed 'unashamed complete knock-off' 
 of the GTA franchise. Boy was it a wake up call.
  
  If you manage to get your hands on Saints Row 2 you will notice the obvious differences and positives 
 over GTA4 almost immediately. One of the biggest is that Saints Row 2 shows you what you have been 
 missing out on in terms of sandbox game play. Lets be straight up honest. Its one thing to play 
 GTA3 on a ps2 with some questionable control issues 4 or 5 years ago but for the latest installment 
 in 2008 to fall over in exactly the same place is a massive oversight and an unacceptable one at 
 that. There's no denying that Saints controls are silky smooth and unequivocally gorgeous when 
 compared to it's older and more experienced counterpart. The streamlining of the weapon selection 
 is simply liberating when compared to the clunkiness of the controls Niko suffered from and thankfully 
 the awful targeting system is completely non-existent. 
  
  The story (be it unrealistic) accomplishes everything it was meant to do. It's just fun and interesting! 
 It was a real pleasure to sit back and watch and I was constantly trying to guess what would happen 
 next. Could it happen in real life? Absolutely not! Is that why I play games in the first place? 
 Absolutely YES! 
  
  Admittedly Saints Row 2 isn't as polished as GTA4 especially as far as level design goes but THQ 
 manages to make up for this with an infinite amount of customization options. To be back making 
 my own cars, and for the first time creating a character and choosing what color clothes, accessories 
 and logos I would like my character to display to the world is just an awesome feeling after having 
 everything like it unjustly stripped away from me in GTA4.
  
  Shockingly the biggest difference between GTA4 and SR2 seems to be that Saints Row is moving forward 
 and revolutionizing the genre that it didn't start. Although hardly touched upon in any official 
 reviews the co-op feature really is an incredible achievement in console gaming and likens the 
 whole experience to something reminiscent of an mmo.
  
  Sadly (and predictably I might add) the disease of fan-boi-ism has done its rounds with this game 
 already. As per usual people are completely un-excepting of potentially better ways of doing things 
 and although I understand it can be utterly painful to see a franchise you love and grew up with 
 head in a questionable direction (looking at you Nintendo!) , we all have to let developers know 
 what they are doing wrong and you don't achieve that by being a mindless yes men. 
  
  The bottom line is that I had more fun and entertainment in the first 10 minutes of playing Saints 
 Row 2 then the fist  of GTA4. And the outcome?! I cant wait to see what SR3 is like... 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hinder109
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  saints row 2 continues the story from the the original. this game comes eqquipped with plenty of 
 of neat stuff, ranging from character customizations to activities and diversions. its an over the 
 top style game , dffinaterly not gta ,but still very good. For me this game is pretty easy, even 
 on hardcore .for those who are not gta style veteren games. this game will be difficult. I play this 
 game from 8am-5pm every day it never gets boring its just loaded with tons of missions and plenty 
 of other things to do, unlike gtas repetitive style of game play. My full review
  rating:10/10
  difficulty: easy
  learnig curve: less than 30mins
  replay value: extremely high
 
  time spent playing:100 hrs or more
  things to do: plenty
  Bottom line go out and get this game trust me it will be one of the best moves you will make! Oh 
 and... enjoy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucas81093
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Bought this the day it came out. It was worth the Price this is one of my new favorite games and 
 it should be in any body collection. Unlike most games that venture in to the dark world of gang 
 violence this ones good. alot better than an earlyer atempempt No Names Mentioned *Cough* Gta IV 
 *Cough*. the main story line is eventful with twist and turns. there bits were you expect something 
 to happen like you just know. But some how they managed to still suprise you. Online could be alot 
 and i mean alot better i only just figured out to join Specific games :P. The Ranking System Is 
 alot Better than The Original. Online is LAGGY to say the least. Some Activites are Strange to 
 say the least Like spraying the city with citzens waste. to Jumping in Front of speeding cars to 
 gain money. The new online mode the Strong arm matches pitch you against a team to do activites 
 to earn more money then the other team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintsroller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  THE UNOFFICIAL SAINTS ROW 2 REVIEW by saintsroller
  
  Level 1 (Graphics & Gameplay)
  
  Okay, lets start off with the graphics,
  I thought the graphics for Saints Row 2 were a major 
 disappointment. (Quick Fact: The Graphics was what let down Saints Row 2 by an extra .5 of a mark) . 
 Anyway,
  So the graphics are quite poor considering a Xbox360/PS3 game.
  
  Now lets talk gameplay,
  The gameplay for Saints Row 2 is very fun and not really difficult either. 
 There are lots of new activities and diversions from spraying sewerage on people to tight, tensioning 
 races. 
  
  
  Level 2 (Interface & Story)
  
  The interface of Saints Row 2 is nothing special if you have played a game out of the GTA series. 
 But I still wouldn't say that it the same as GTA (besides the free roaming gaminig environment) 
 GTA was going is a very real type of game what we call extream relism, but Saints Row 2 goes a 
 completely different way (Quick Fact: We call this Hyper OTT Relism) .
  
  The other things about this game which suprised us was the amazing customization levels....
  
 You can customize your character, car, crib and gang with endless choices of customization.
  
  T
  
  Bonus Level (Final facts & Score)
  
  Saints Row 2 is a very fun game and is a 
 must buy but be aware of those nasty Glitches at some stages.
  
  This is game is A 8.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macabre190788
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 11:11 am PT
Review:  My favorite GTA game is San Andreas, every now and then I can play it, and just mess around with 
 planes, jet packs and all sorts of crazy diversions outside of the missions. SR2 isn't GTAIV, in 
 the sense that it doesn't take things serious, at all. It's more in the spirit of San Andreas. 
 And it works, I can't remember I had this much fun playing a video game. And it's all thanks to 
 a number of things. First, the characters are mostly interesting and cool, although they tend to 
 spew out some of the most ebarrassing lines ever in a video game. 
  
  Second, the missions are fairly varied and clever, and as such, are fun to play through. Although 
 a few, just a few, near the end can be borderline frustrating. But a real challenge is always appreciated. 
 Third... you know I'm not going to go on with writing "fourth, fifth" and so on. So, where were 
 I? Oh yeah, the customization options are probaby the best thing about the game. You can customize 
 practically everything, your crib, your cars, your character. All from the way he looks, dress, 
 talks, and acts.
  
  
  Co-op is a nice addition. Wait, "nice addition"? It's awesome. And it makes the game absolutely 
 essential if you like sandbox games, or co-op in general. Deathmatch multiplayer is mostly ok, 
 nothing too special.
  
  If you liked SR1 or San Andreas, it's a pretty safe bet to say you're gonna like SR2, it's just 
 awesome. And the addition of co-op makes this a must-have for your videogame collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Criket_Rogers
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is set five years after the boat explosion that was suppose to kill your protagonist. 
 You come to find out he has been in a coma and is being held in the Stillwater Pin. Are you interested 
 yet? Well lets keep going into the story. You must bust out, take back the Row, and screw up Ultor. 
 Plain and simple right?
  
  GAME PLAY: Volition did not change their formula of earn the respect then play the missions which 
 kind of gets annoying when I am loving the storyline and then stopped by the constant need for 
 stored up respect. However they did add some new mini-games and "diversions". Some are known as 
 Septic Avenger, where you actually cover houses in $h! t, FUZZ, where you are a dirty cop on a TV 
 show. The diversions are not that special although they allow you to unlock some pretty nice stuff.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Look beyond the first Row and you will see that this game has tweaked the graphics just 
 a bit. From colorful city to dull and gray cesspit. However you will notice Johnny's extreme makeover.
 
  
  SOUND: Although they not have the all-star cast from the first, this game really made an impact 
 with this cast. The voices were perfect to the part! The sounds from the guns are still the same 
 and the cars seem to purr more than ever.
  
  THE GOOD: Co-op Gameplay is fun, story line is excellent, duel wield abilities!!!
  
  THE BAD: 
 Some glitches may ruin your gameplay.. but don't worry.
  
  All in all I give Saints Row 2 a 10 for its impact to me. This game is a must own experience for 
 all 360 and PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nills
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  This game is great. I expected it to be average and worse than GTA IV, but man was I wrong. Technically, 
 this game is not superior, but like the label says: It is just plain fun.
  
  Co-op is AMAZING, this is truly the strongest point of the game, along with character customization. 
 Story is also great this time around and doesnt waste your time with boring missions. Many missions 
 in this game are a blast.
  
  The weapons and activities are still superb and the only thing that is bad is the multiplayer matchmaking 
 which is just plain frusturating.
  
  This game in my opinion is better than GTA. GTA may sell more, and be technically more proficient, 
 this game succeeds in the area of fun.
  
  I am having a great time with this game and want you to:
  Pick this game up!
  (I will add more 
 to review when I am finished w/ game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llTylerll
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Saints row 2 for all platforms is a pretty fun game but has many flaws such as glitches, annoying 
 Ai, how your gang looks, and also Very Dissapointing multiplayer.
  
  If you were like me you loved saints row and when annouced saints row 2 was excited to get another 
 serving of a free-roaming crime game, seeing as how single player, and multiplayer offered up to 
 100 hrs of playtime I was thrilled.
  
  1st off the gangs in saints row 2 seem kind of lame in the sense that theres the Ronin (the chinese/japanese 
 gang) who look lame with there swords and leather coats, the brotherhood were a bunch of metal 
 head tribal type guys who look dumb and fianally the one cool gang in the game , the sons of sanadi 
 who are just plain awesome jamaican type guys.
  
  the gameplay in the game is pretty fun but definately doesnt feel as solid as saints row, I like 
 the fact of aiming over the shoulder, but when you have to aim for everything except for pistols 
 and shotguns it get very annoying and isnt as fun as running and gunning in saints row.
  
  The custimization is pretty good in the game but they added to many "wacky" and silly things like 
 ninja suits and etc I mean I know its cool to have a choice but I wouldve like to seen more gangster 
 style clothes. the hair styles are pretty leanient I mean the fact they took out the scroller of 
 the hair cut (such as making it how long you want) is so dumb. gangs custimization is all cool 
 cept how your guys look ,heres how it goes Gangster (aka mexican cause all your guys wear is fendoras 
 and have gay mustaches) preppy (rich kids) 80's (really gay) ninja (ninjas) and some more but I miss 
 seeing your gang members look actually gangster and cool then some loser with a mustache or ninja 
 costume. Gangs signs , and tags are really cool though.
  
  Now heres the worst problem and screw up the developer ever made. Multiplayer I Had so much fun 
 with saints row 1's multiplayer custimization, ranking up, game modes protect the pimp, blinged out 
 ride, team gangster brawl, making a gang online facing other gangs. all of that pretty much crapped 
 on except Team gangster brawl, and custimization and the new half-ass badge system I mean heres 
 your choice. Team Gangster brawl , Gangster brawl , strong arm SOunds like alot of choice huh (not) .
 
  I mean custimization sucks online not only can you not rank up normally you have to do (special 
 thingS) you have to earn those ridiculous badges to get new clothes I mean wtf the 1st games online 
 let you buy anything right off the bat so long as you had money. the modes suck gangster brawl, 
 Team gangster brawl , is so hectic its unplayable, you got Terriable respawns, no variety of guns, 
 kill one person get killed feel, no eating system (to recover health) and maps are so small literally 
 each match last up to 2 - 3 minutes. Strong arm is Snatch, insurance fraud, hitman, racing ,demo 
 derby, all thrown together to make the stupidest game mode. overall online is so terriable and 
 boring youll be done with it for how ever long it takes to convince you it sucks, trust me I gave 
 it a chance.
  Overall This game is Decent for single player , and can play whole thing co-op but the online is 
 so bad I couldnt recommend to anyone
  single player - 4/5
  Online - 1/5
  
  The game is worth a rent or buy just for single player and co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tattoo04
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  well sr2 is a fun game they did alot better job with customizing the cars you can now change the 
 tire width, more custom styles of rims, but the candy paint jobs don't look as good as they did on 
 first saints row, the control layout on the first saint row was better, graphic about the same i 
 really haven't played it that much so far but it's fun don't think it's better then gta 4 except 
 for the car customizing they could have added a little 3 wheel motion for us lowrider guys but 
 overall it's a good game but like the other gangs in first saint row better these gangs seem a 
 bit silly too me what is with all that menu pausing during the game gets ridiculous sometimes, 
 game also frooze up on me one time but first saint row did it a little too this is not the best 
 game out there right now for sure but it's one you should check out if you like that hood rich 
 lifestlye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phillyeagles123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  ... Saints Row 2 is better than GTA IV in my opinion because I just have more fun playin Saints 
 Row 2. Plus the cops don't kill you in like 3 seconds. It's fun being like a one man wrecking crew 
 out in Stilwater. I've played the first Saints Row and from experience, Saints Row 2 is 10x better. 
 There's so much more things to do in SR2 like fly airplanes (unlike GTA IV... I almost cried when 
 there was no airplanes in GTA IV) , and theres so many cool weapons to use like samuri swords, machetes, 
 taser guns. The driving isn't realistic at all but that doesn't bother me. I'd rather have insanley 
 easy driving than annoyingly hard driving like in GTA IV. What's really cool is that if you get 
 5 stars on cop notierity, tanks come and you can use them. Saints Row 2 has all the things GTA 
 IV needed and its a more laid back fun version of GTA IV. Saints Row 2 isn't so serious that its 
 almost unfun. I would seriously recommend this game for at least rental if you don't want to buy 
 it. Grand Theft Auto finally now has a good competitor in Saints Row, and GTA may be dethroned 
 sooner rather than later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smerlus
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  For me, the holiday season this year kicked off with the release of Saint's Row 2, a game that 
 seems to have hit its stride by offering more over the top things to do than any other sandbox 
 game out there. Activities, distractions, the main storyline, co-op, multiplayer and achievements 
 will offer anyone interested as much playtime as most RPG's out there.
  
  In the graphics department the quality of the textures seems to have been stepped up and so has 
 lighting, animations and next to no screen tearing or dropped textures. Still the game sports some 
 stiff animations, visible seams appear especially in the water and the game sports an overall cartoony 
 look when compared to the other major sandbox game. The major trouble that seems to be facing most 
 sandbox games this generation seems to be memory as most of the times doing a slow 360 degree turn 
 will make most cars and pedestrians that were once there disappear. These are really minor complaints 
 seeing as I've been in a car chase with three of four crack heads with their cars on fire and there 
 was no slowdown what so ever.
  
  The city of Stillwater has changed immensely since the main character has been in a coma and while 
 SR 2 offers a larger variety of environments, the city doesn't have a consistent flow to it. It 
 seems they wanted to offer a bunch of different locales but didn't have enough space so they crammed 
 them together and sometimes they simply don't fit.
  
  Physics is something SR introduced to the genre and it doesn't really tweak that portion here. 
 Cars feel almost weightless although they handle just like they always have and the character feels 
 equally flighty. I guess the lack of realistic physics does cater to the over the top nature and 
 silliness of the game but it would have been nice to tweak the driving portion a little bit to 
 make the cars feel like they have some substance behind them.
  
  The original story in SR played off in three separate parts with a final overlapping story arch 
 and this game is no different. There are three new gangs, an Asian gang, a Jamaican gang and a 
 bunch of tattooed crazies gang plus an evil corporation that has major plans for Stillwater that 
 don't involve organized crime. 
  
  The new gang lieutenants of the third street saints don't seem to have the same personality as 
 the original Lt's but they're acceptable. However, the foes in this game have stepped it up and 
 some of them are truly scum of the earth that need to be taken care of. Most of the stories involve 
 a back and forth power struggle where a bit is lost and a bit is gained and that's where my biggest 
 complaint with the game comes in. The main character is narrow minded. He's such a 2D character 
 of bad attitude that it seems that it rarely matters what goes on, he's going to go in guns blazing, 
 come out on top and have a clich one liner to spurt out at the end of it all. There is one actual 
 touching moment that goes against what I just said but there should have been maybe a few more.
 
  
  Also the game gives you free will to choose how you progress in the game but certain storylines 
 seem like they should have been done first. When my gang controls 2/3 of Stillwater and another 
 gang leader calls my guy a nobody, either he's not up on his current events or he's being very 
 facetious. 
  
  Just like the original game, to play these missions and progress the story, you're going to need 
 respect to unlock them. You gain respect by just driving around and avoiding crashes, by killing 
 opposing gang members but the most is gained by doing activities. SR 2 keeps a lot of the best 
 activities from the original, supes them up a bit and offers even more to do. A lot of these are 
 very fun such as the Insurance Fraud, Hitman, and Fight Clubs while others lose their excitement 
 a few minutes into them such as Crowd Control. I guess the main saving grace of these is that they 
 offer so many, you're sure to find some you like and they all have unlockable goodies offered once 
 you beat a certain amount of levels in them.
  
  Most of these unlockables come in the form of more customization options and this is another highlight 
 of the game. SR 2 offers a more robust set of options not only for the main character but also 
 homes that can be purchased, clothing, vehicles, and even gangs can be customized the way you want 
 them. It seems the only thing that is lacking is the amount of voices they give the lead character. 
 One voice is Hispanic, the other African American and the last is British. When I created my character 
 to be slightly goofy looking, none of these voices actually fit the look very well.
  
  The co-op mode is simply one of the better co-ops available in gaming today. Everything that one 
 can do during the single player portion can be accomplished with a buddy that has free roaming 
 of the city. In the grand scheme of co-ops, Saint's Row 2's is up there with the likes of Gears 
 of War. In fact I think some of the harder activities were meant to accomplish with another person.
 
  
  Another great addition to gameplay is the human shield. While other games are adopting the cover 
 mechanic found in Gears of War, SR 2 went another way to keep with the feeling that this is a balls 
 to the wall shooter. Human shields are definitely a great strategy in the game and have kept me 
 alive numerous times.
  
  Keeping with the theme that more is better, there is just a ton of weapons this time around such 
 as pepper spray, stun guns, automatic pistols, satchel charges and even a laser guided rocket launcher. 
 Each weapon feels fairly different and there are enough variations in SMG's, assault rifles, shotguns 
 and pistols for every occasion.
  
  The voice acting is adequate enough and the dialogue is cheesy but fitting for the nature of the 
 game. It's not going to win any awards and there's the occasional witty part but on the other end 
 there's also some grimace inducing quotes and scenes. While there's not a lot of radio stations 
 offered, there is simply a superb 80's pop station that I loved to death and the rap station wasn't 
 too bad. The addition of a custom made radio station made the game a lot better because I had the 
 chance to take all of the songs I liked and put them all together. I was appalled by the Funk station 
 though. It's as if Volition spent too much money on the 80's licenses so they had to skimp out 
 and pick up some no name funk bands.
  
  In the end, Saint's Row 2 doesn't try to redefine the sandbox genre nor does it really try to refine 
 it. What it accomplishes is giving more options in every part imaginable. It's like going from 
 a sandbox to a beach. SR2 is an improvement over its predecessor in every way. Now only if it would 
 catch up in graphics, physics and writing, then it would have a chance of taking GTA's place as 
 the pinnacle of the genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: royvanderhoorn
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Let me get this straight. I'm not a Saints Row 2 (SR2) fanboy, not at all. On the contrary, 
 I played all of the GTA versions and these games helped me to keep me gaming all this time. However, 
 the latest installment of GTA (NY city) was kind of a letdown to me. Instead of adding good content, 
 they removed half of the fun stuff. (buy homes, go to the barber, tattoo shop, etc) . 
  
  What the SAINTSROW! has this to do with this review? Well just about everything, because SR2 does 
 have what GTA failed to deliver to me; new content and gameplay. 
  
  While the graphics cannot be compared to GTA at all, the gameplay is far better. I will give a 
 few examples to make it more clear. 
  
  First of all, the game starts out with a lot of freedom. In the first three missions, you have 
 the availability to get a shelter and make it your own home. With just about anything to edit, 
 this aspect is far better than GTA.
  
  For example, you can edit your own gang. What do they need to look like? More like the gangsta 
 types, or the cool classic eighties homies? it's all your choice. You choose the cars for your 
 gang, you can choose the interior of your house, your own car, the color of your boxers, just about 
 everything. This is what it makes it so much fun to play. Each time, you are in a different mood, 
 you are able to change just about anything. 
  
  Added to that, a fun and entertaining (sometimes a bit unrealistic but that's fine) storyline, 
 make SR2 a must-have for the Xbox 360. 
  
  Even if you're a big fan of the GTA series and don't like games that are related in the first place, 
 please be patient and give this game a try. You will not be dissapointed!
  
  
  Roy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corey817
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Id been waiting for this game since I heard it was coming out, and when i heard it had been delayed 
 i was worried so much that it wouldnt be as good as the 1st one that i almost didnt buy it.... but 
 man am i glad i did buy it. This game is so much fun im having trouble playing any of my other 
 new games (sorry nba 2k9) . The story picks up with your charicter waking up.... after 5 or so years 
 to find out: yes im in jail, no i dont have any money or cars, the saints are no more, julius and 
 the rest of the gang are gone, and whats a guy gotta do to get a decent pare of pants? I found 
 myself playing the games side missions for the 1st 2 days that i had the game bc they were to fun 
 could help it, and once i got to the games story boy did it get evem better! The Driving in this 
 game is while not prefect very good, the targeting in the game is great and them adding a cruise 
 control option while driving makes some missions easyier to complete. Did i mention that they co-oped 
 this game? that you can play the whole game with a friend? that prettymuch saying how ever good 
 you thought this game was go ahead and 2x it. this game makes gta4 look slow old and boring, who 
 wants to go bowling when you could start up some mayhem?? gears of war2 watch out bc as of right 
 now saints row 2 has my vote for game of the year!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowFlameDcr
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I brought this game and thought it was Brilliant. The ability to customise your character, cars, 
 houses, gangs etc is a fantastic idea. The missions get difficult in some places, but once you've 
 died once, you'll be fine to complete it the second time round.
  This game would of easily been a 9.5 possibly 10... but then come the glitches.
  When I got to 
 33% completion of the game, I came across many glitches. Doors wouldn't open in one mission, meening 
 I had to do the mission all over again. Also the game froze a few times and became unplayable. 
 The game for me was such a let down, as I was so happy with the game while playing it.
  In the end, I had to take the game back and instead I got GTA 4 back and Far Cry 2.
  Oh well... 
 If you bring out a patch for it, then I'll definatly buy it back and give it another go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlieprince
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  lets see... saints row X 5 =saints row 2. and that is a true fact. over 300 levels of missions/ 
 ativities! ARE YOU KIDDING ME GAMESPOT! an 8 deserves to be a 10. The only thing i wanted more 
 from this game was more variety about missions... and an dreds... wich it gave me. Do you people 
 know how much content this game holds?! enough to overload a federal computer's memory thats for 
 sure. TOTAL customizaton deserves WAAAAAAAAAAY more than a 10 too. The three gangs in saints row 
 2 are the ronin, a gang of ninja/asian bikers, the brotherhood, a gang that is too buff to actually 
 withstand the power of the saints, and my favorite, the sons of semedi, which are a gang of rastafarians 
 with AN AWESOME FIGHTING STYLE!!! by defeating these gangs you get their cars, their hideouts, 
 and their gang style (taunt, compliment, and fighting style) . There is also the billion dollar 
 corporation called Ultor (which you MAY *hint* have to kill. did i mention the fact that you can 
 customie your gang? well, i'm not spoiling anything more, thq needs money for sr3 and you will 
 supply it by buying sr2! BUY MY MINIONS. lol.
  
  p. s. seriously, i want to play sr3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vergil2016
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  If you say it is not better than gta I will go to your house and snap your neck not realy but this 
 game is highly addictive but it had the same the thing as the first one like all the basic activitys 
 so this is a cool game but it could use some adding to it cause the only thing is the activitys 
 other than that if you like gta and want to buy it dont go buy saints it will leave you more satisfied 
 during the you can even grab and throw people off of buildings and you can duel-wield pistols machineguns 
 all that good stuff so I highly recomend you to go buy it this game I have to addmit is a cheaper 
 grandtheft-auto but it is always more fun especially all the games you can play in xbox live with 
 all of your friends this has been a review with NightSigfreid (online-name send request for Halo 
 or any other cool games) Virgil2016 /out/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Yes, "Saint's Row 2" takes the honor as being the best GTA rip-off ever. It's a better game than 
 the first with loads of customization, new missions, great gunplay and terrific online modes. It 
 actually plays like a sequel to "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City". Rockstar departed from the cartoony 
 world of GTA with the introduction of "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas", the last of the last-gen 
 GTA's. "San Andreas" was dark with its edgy gangbanger theme and "Grand Theft Auto IV" took out 
 most of the humor the series had displayed in part III and "Vice". "Saint's Row 2" feels like the 
 first two PS2 GTA's. Anotherwords, this is what "San Andreas" should've been! It's light, but a 
 lot of fun. If you played the first "Saint's", than this sequel will please you and if you never 
 did, than you're in for quite a surprise. Unlike "Mercs 2", this sequel is filled with fun missions. 
 It never feels boring or tired, "Saint's Row 2" is one of those bigger, badder and better sequels. 
 A great game that is loads of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dondada469
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm still in shock that this game had such a low score from gamespot in comparison to GTA4. I may 
 be alone here, but I found GTA4 really boring and unoriginal. (Gamespot gave it a 10... really a 
 10?? Get real! San Andreas blew it away... paid off by sponsors? Damn right.) 
  Saints Row 2 is a fun game, and it may not be realistic, it's a videogame so it focuses on being 
 FUN! The only major issue I have with the game is that it constantly freezes and I'm not the only 
 one, my cousins have it for both the 360 and PS3 and both of them complain about it constantly 
 freezing... of course this always happens to freeze after you've done a lot of progressing and forgot 
 to save  :- ( 
  Any way, I highly suggest getting this game for fun factor alone. I put a lot of hours in and I'm 
 only half way finished so it's definitely worth the price of admission. I haven't gone online with 
 it so I can't give my opinion of the multi-player aspect. Just go out and buy the game and represent 
 for the 3rd Street Saints. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Sainta row 2 is the sequel to the game that many thought was a gta clone but can it hold its own 
 against its main rival GTA IV?
  
  Single player
  
  Lets get one thing straight SR2 is one big game there is endless stuff to do from trail blazing 
 insurance fraud and most of these side missions manage to be fun and you will be doing a lot of 
 them because if you don't you can't progress through the single player this was my complaint from 
 SR1 but the good thing is the side missions are all mostly fun so its nothing to really complain 
 about. The story in SR2 picks up after SR1 you have just came out of a coma and you escape from 
 a prison this mission is your first chance to test the guns controls out however i had a bit of 
 Deja vu when i first played this game because it feels the same and the visuals are pretty much 
 the same so whats really new? well the map is different to SR1 its larger and has more to it and 
 sr2 includes bikes planes helicopters boats pretty much everything that SR1 should have had and 
 the game has a lot more ways to customize you can change your apartment to your liking basically 
 everything can be made to suit your needs. The SP is long and has some very good missions that 
 managed to make me chuckle or just plain laugh out loud.
  
  In saints 2 though i have my share of dissapointment and the biggest is the lack of polish the 
 glitches in the game are everywhere the game does feel like Saints row 1.5 and the cars still feel 
 like trucks when they top out very quick you feel like your doing 55mph and the handling is too 
 sensitive However the game has co-op which actually makes sense and a great feature that games 
 like GTA could really do with.
  
  The game is jam packed with weapons from stun guns RPGS etc all are very satisfying to use and 
 easily top GTA IVS selection.
  
  My big complaint is the achievement glitches i got none for completing certain tasks and that is 
 a a big flaw for someone who put a lot of time into this.
  
  
  closing comments
  
  Saints row 2 is a good game that can be very fun but its still riddled with glitches and it could 
 of really done with more time and polish but with that said it has a good story and endless customization 
 options that should keep you interested.
  
  Pros
  Good humour
  decent story
  endless customization
  
  cons
  Very gltichy
  game could of improved a lot more
  MP is 
 good but not long lasting
  
  
  Score
  
  7.5/10
  
  verdict
  
  Saints row 2 is a fun but slighlty lacking open world game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zBloodD3monz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I got this game the day it was released, knowing that it would be a great game from Saints Row 
 1. The story follows on 5 years later from where it left off.
  
  The customisation on Saints Row 2 is amazing. There are a variety of ways you can modify you character. 
 There is a large range of clothing, jewelery, hair styles, tattoos, skin tones, taunts, compliments, 
 facial expressions, movement styles, voice, combat style and your body build (fat, muscular, skinny 
 etc) . 
  
  Another feature in Saints Row 2 is the choice of being male, female or something in between. And 
 yes, I did say something in between - You can have breasts, sound like a woman, but be a male.
 
  
  Other than customising your character you can customise other things such as; your vehicles - performance 
 and appearance, your crib - buy a 50 inch TV, a stripper pole and many more, your gang - appearance, 
 taunts and your gang's vehicles.
  
  The player must fulfil their respect bar in order to take part in missions. This can be done by 
 completing activities and diversions. Activities are things like mayhem, FUZZ, insurance fraud, 
 crowd control, snatch, drug trafficking and many more. Diversions are things like killing other 
 gang members, driving on the wrong side of the road, getting head shots and many more.
  
  But if the player doesn't want to keep doing activities he/she can fulfil thier style bar. This 
 can be done by buying clothing, jewelery and items for your crib, which would result in earning 
 a bonus after an activity.
  
  I was quite disapointed with online multiplayer. There are only 2 game variants; Strong arm and 
 Gangsta Brawl, although on Strong arm it consists of different rounds with different game types. 
 I was looking forward to playing what I enjoyed most from Saints Row 1 - Protect tha Pimp and Blinged 
 out Ride, which has now been removed.
  
  The graphics on Saints Row 2 is an improvement, but not a massive improvement from Saints Row 1. 
 Theres a number of small bugs in Saints Row 2, but its nothing major.
  
  On the whole Saints Row 2 is a great game and I recommend buying it. A few small improvements would 
 result in this game getting 10/10. The game is alot of fun and theres plenty to do to stop you 
 getting bored. I think its a fairly short game and can be completed within 15-20 hours, or even 
 less. The storyline is interesting. But theres one question that has been left in my head... The 
 same question that Saints Row 1 left me. What is going to happen in Saints Row 3? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charmander7
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  First of all this game is not as similar as you think it would be to GTA4, this game is unique. 
 You can do so much more in this one than in the first one like, ride in new vehicles such as  
 great new cars to add to your garage. The customization is much better, but i agree with the video 
 review "it's a pain to go through all of the slide bars" to mildly tweak your characters face. 
 I also love to create a personality, a taunt, and a cheer for your character. The missions feel 
 stronger, more organized, and more creative. And my little warning to younger players out there, 
 this game has sort of cheesy violence but its violent still very violent, they swear a lot!!, and 
 sexual wise on a scale of 1- 10 I'm going to say...9.5. But for everyone out there who enjoys GTA4 
 or is a gangster game fanatic, or just wants a new game to keep them occupied for a while i say 
 "BUY THIS GAME!, ITS AMAZING!". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  While other free-roam games take themselves far too serious, not allowing any kind of humour, Saints 
 Row 2 does the exact opposite. Instead of binding the player to one specific storyline, it binds 
 you to five. The Sons of Samedi, the Brotherhood of Stilwater, the Ronin, the Ultor Corporation, 
 and the Third Street Saints.
  
  The original was a nice add-in between Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, and IV. But it didn't have 
 as much as people wanted it to. However, the sequel focuses on Single Player rather than Multiplayer, 
 and if you're just looking for something to pass time with, you'll be pleasantly surprised.
  
  The physics and graphics act and look like the first one, which isn't really a bad thing since 
 it works for the suburb-crime ridden atmosphere. As far as i'm aware, there's at least two versions 
 of each activity, one on each island. According to the official forums, there's also over 30 secret 
 areas for players to explore.
  
  There's nothing else to say, except it's everything GTA IV was hyped up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Will_KutyerKawk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Saint's Row 2 has a ton of stuff to do. There are the main missions which are based on gaining 
 back the hoods that rival gangs have taken over. These missions vary in that some are driving, 
 some are gunning and some are both. Besides the main missions there are plenty of side missions 
 that are under the categories of Activities and Diversions. The Activities range from Insurance 
 Fraud, Gathering up Hookers, Destroying the city to Bringing down property values by spraying crap 
 from a sewage truck everywhere. There are also the standard "hit man" and "chop shop" missions 
 that were in the first game. Completing these missions unlocks bonuses like cars, weapons and new 
 abilities. They also earn you money which you can use to buy tons of clothing, weapons, ammo, and 
 upgrades. Plus you earn respect which is needed to unlock the main missions. Diversions are fun 
 mini games that are optional. Some diversions include base jumping, putting out fires, towing cars, 
 and working as an EMT. These are just a few of many things to do in Stillwater. Like the first 
 Saint's Row there are all kinds of things you can buy.
  There are many vehicles which can be upgraded and customized buy driving into one of many garages. 
 Once in your garage they are yours whenever you want them. You also have a huge selection of clothes, 
 accessories and character customization. Where do you keep all this stuff? In you crib, where else? 
 Spread throughout the city are places you can buy and upgrade. Here you can pick up the money you 
 collect from the hoods you have won back and from the businesses you have bought into. You also 
 have access to you clothes and weapons. This time around you have the option to play co-op with 
 your friends. If that's not your thing you can try the multiplayer. Even though they removed a 
 couple of the multiplay game modes you will still have a ton of fun. 
  Everyone compares SR2 with GTA4 and at its core they are similar. The difference comes in that 
 GTA4 went for realism and SR2 went for just plain fun. In SR2 you have the option to spend all 
 that money you have collected. Whether it is cars, clothes, homes, or weapons it gives you more 
 of a feeling of satisfaction. If you liked GTA4 I can't see how you wouldn't love SR2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbox360-reviews
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Saints row2 is simply a fun game and yes its cheesy and it feels a bit immature in my opinion, 
 but i just find myself playing this for hours because there are so many things to keep me busy. 
 The customisation in this game is incredible, you can customise your crib, car, character, the 
 look of your gang, there is alot, and it is very well implemented like it was in sa. The story 
 in this game is actually quite good and is very comical at times. The missions are rewarding because 
 you can't auto aim so when i completed missions, it was very satisfying. Apart from that, there 
 is alot to do out of missions. You can fly planes, you have parachutes, and my favourite thing 
 is holding people as shields then throwing them at trains, which is hilarious and doesn't get old. 
 There are also a ton of weapons, and they are all great. However, i am not a graphics whore but 
 this game can feel very plain sometimes when you are going through the city, and it just reminds 
 me of last gen a bit to often. The game has also frozen twice on two different missions but i can 
 get past that. There are also stupid glitches. I rammed into a person once in my car and there 
 legs went through the bonnet and they were just stuck there hanging, whilst there head scraping 
 on the floor, and although it was hysterical, it was very tedious. So saints row2 is an all round 
 fun game and which you would find hard to not have much to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grenadesaway
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Yeah, this isn't GTA 4, but what it does, it does what GTA san andreas introduced -and that was 
 total thug syndrome! Good, bad? dunno, all I know is that sandbox this game is and man, can you 
 just go wild! 
  It is a bit lame though that you can kill someone in front of a cop and he'll do nothing, or worse 
 walk around in your prison garb and still, nothin'... but maybe that's because it gives you a headstart 
 before the real pain begins?
  Hilarious it is though, when a pimp takes a newspaper booth and beats senseless a cop across the 
 street! man, that had youtube all over it.
  The Zombie Uprising is going to go down as classic, but overall, yeah, it does just repeat saints 
 1 too much. The customization is great and graphics quite nice; car handling is expected for some 
 reason, although why a Open game can't do it better is beyond me; the drive camera is also a bit 
 annoying and slow, but on foot, hah, "Zombie uprising in the streets!" 
  Music so far has much to be desired, missions are like Gamespot reviewed, and side-activities are 
 fun, but also for only first go thrill, upon repeat, 'eh, again?'
  I can't really see a Saints 3, and maybe the ending to 2 puts that question completely out, but 
 it'd be nice to see what Thq can do with it's engine/developers next time, having done 1 and 2. 
 
  Overall, it is one fun game, combat styles/cinematics just totally refreshing, customization: hedonistic, 
 and overall, just one more Open World game to the mix. I just hope that Saints 2 does for THQ what 
 Assassins Creed did for Ubisoft, and GTA4 did for Take Two -and that was to give it a new oxygen 
 tank to try again and have another go... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnalogOdyssey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Pros: -Interesting graphics style
  -lots of guns
  -you can hold alot of weapons 
  -lots of minigames and sidequest
  -you can beat it in about 8-9 hours through and 
  come back 
 to it
  -decent 8th grade humor
  -lots of cars
  -zombie minigame in your crib is a good throwback 
  game to mess with
  
  Cons: -Graphic glitches 
 (cars fade, characters get
  stuck)
  -characters are uninteresting
  -story sucks
  -the A. I. is really bad and it is easy to take on 
  like 15-20 cops or bad guys at once...
 
  -there is no punishment system and you regain 
  health and can run fast (superhuman strength) 
  -The "activities" you have to do to even play 
 the 
  missions are fun and all, but after a while 
  playing the "fuzz" mission or "fight club" 
  mission or whatever gets way old and gets in the 
 
  way of the core story missions 
  -you can blow through this game and the stores 
  are uninteresting (liquor store, gun store, etc) 
  
  Personally people please GTA is a classic 
 francise with more interesting characters, realism and storylines... so do not say this game is 
 better than gta 4 and that series because without that this game would not exist... I know the 
 game is trying to be funny (which in some cases it is) but it is a rehash for me from the first 
 one and I wish the series had a better storyline than the "street saint's" storyline.... I had 
 fun with this game.... I just think it is short and repetive.... The online and co-op are decent 
 and can have some replay value to it... I just think you should wait like 5 months before you buy 
 it when it goes down to 30 dollars than spend a 60 dollar pricetag on this game when better games 
 are out and coming out like Fable 2, Gears of War 2, Call of Duty World at War and others.... Rent 
 it first..... and GTA 4 might have been a dissapointment to some (yeah it was short) , but the characters, 
 graphics and storyline are more developed and structured and realistic and more inhanced than this 
 game.... Rent it first.... but if you liked the first game and don't mind any of what I am talking 
 about then just buy it..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flacracker173
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This is way more fun that GTA4 on so many levels. More side missions and more fun. Planes to Helicopters 
 this game improves on everything SR1 did. Even after I beat GTA4 (witch I thought was amazing because 
 it was hyped a lot and i fell into it all) I found myself going back to SR1 to blow some %$@# up.
 
  
  The cop system in SR1-2 is much better than GTA. I can kill someone but not have the cops running 
 down my ass. But I get this bar. The bar fills up and then I get a star. At one star there still 
 isn't a lot of cops that are trying to run down my ass. I can escape easly shooting people on my 
 escape, making it more fun so I can go back to shooting people almost instantly. The only way you 
 can get even 3 stars is if you try. In GTA4 if you kill a cop you get 3 stars but then running 
 away is so difficult that its difficult. If you get 3 stars you are likely to get 4 stars. At 4 
 stars all you can do die from the cops.
  
  You can have 10 times more fun on SR2. You can kill people then revive them with shock paddles. 
 GTA4 went in the totally opposite direction of what was fun for a sand box game. I got bored the 
 minute I beat it. With SR2 I beat it and I'm still having fun. SR2 went in the right direction 
 with throwing realism out the door and introducing what was fun. Like GTA: SA. If you like GTA: SA 
 then you will like SR2. If you like GTA4 then i hope you don't even bother. GTA4 was fun the slowly 
 declined with a steep drop off at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360-SAINT
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is a exciting and brilliant game in many ways and forms. You can customize your character, 
 your car, your crib, even how your character talks and walks. The game is really fun and the Co-Op 
 is ownage.
  
  Stilwater is breaking down from all the gang activity going on and no one can stop it. So its up 
 to you to make it worse and destroy everything in sight. 
  
  The game lacks in graphics but makes up for that with activities such as Fight club and many others. 
 If your into the gang banging lifestyle and customizing how you take over the city of stilwater, 
 then youll love this big hit to the first game Saints row. 
  
  The story isnt hard to follow from the first one you basically controlled the city then got betray 
 and was n a coma for 5 years. Now your back and better then ever. Get ready for the thrill of your 
 life. 
  
  10/10 Must buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiMoNGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  Greatest game for ingame abilities and prospects for what a character can do. Awesome ability to 
 change the sligtest detail on the character but movement of tattoo placement would be better. Awesome 
 activities which can keep peaple intrested and entertained for ages although you should still receive 
 full respect for lvl 6 activities after compleating once. Song playlist feature is totally awesome 
 altho songs should be able to be dl'ed from your harddrive on the 360 version for that ultimate 
 custermisation. More voices to pick from would add alot more diversity to the game. Being able 
 to design gang members clothes indevidually would be awesome too, e. g. the bulletproof clothing 
 but without helmets or everyone in the same clothes. The GPS system is one of the best i have seen 
 in a RPG game in a long time, not the arrow like in NFS and alittle better than the one in GTA. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basserker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic! The level of customization is very high. No two characters will be 100% 
 the same. In this game you start out as a gang leader who has been in a coma. When you wake up 
 you choose what you want your character to look like, what an insult move is, and what a compliment 
 move is. These all very from smooth criminal michael jackson move to pumping your fist in the air.
 
  
  The story itself is easy to follow. Once off the island you have to go to an abandoned church that 
 was built over this giant underground place. After clearing out all the hobos, it becomes your 
 hideout. Then you can go out either do jobs, attack other gangs strongholds or do missions. Besides 
 those, theres the freedom to go and run around and do whatever you want. If you want you can hijack 
 a car with a passenger and drive off with the passenger on a police chase.
  
  I havn't played the online multiplayer but it looks awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Night_Frost
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Although I didn't play the first game, I was a bit iffy on trying out the second, but once I picked 
 it up, I was immediately hooked.
  
  The story of Saint's Row 2 is pretty simple, your the former leader of the 3rd Street Saints that 
 barely survived a massive explosion from the first game and now wakes up in prison, from there 
 your biggest goal is to revive the Saints by driving out the rival gangs of Stillwater... well, 
 it's not exaactly an award-winning story, but its enough to carry the game.
  
  The character customization is pretty deep, able to create either supermodels to sumo wrestler-sized 
 characters... which can be both cool but a little disturbing, but unlike the first game, you can 
 have either a female or male character of any race, but the only problem is the limit of voice 
 selections, three female and three male isn't bad, but there could be more.
  
  The gameplay is similar to the GTA series, you can run around and shoot people or hijack a vehicle 
 to get from place to place, but the hijacking isn't limited to cars, bikes or boats, you can hijack 
 planes and helicopters... though I found the controls for the aircraft to be a little off. The controls 
 for shooting are pretty solid and driving cars around isn't as tedious as driving the aircraft, 
 in fact, I prefer driving instead of flying.
  
  Audio is pretty good, voice acting is solid with soem familiar voices like Neil Patrick Harris, 
 Keith David and Daniel Dae Kim but the radio stations are pretty limited as you'll maybe hear the 
 same song half an hour later, the lack of variety in the stations as well will leave many playing 
 their own music. The sounds of the guns are pretty good, though the pistols could use a little 
 variation, but the best bart is hearing the sounds of each vehicle, makes you feel like your actually 
 driving them.
  
  The best part about this game is the side missions and the gang warfare, there are cinematics that 
 are pretty memorable, some are dark while some are pretty funny, especially the Sons of Samedi 
 missions, but the best way to ruin any dramatic cinematics is by wearing a Hot Dog suit, it's hard 
 not to keep a straight face while seeing your character mow down gang members while wearing the 
 Hot Dog suit. Some of the side missions are entertaining, some are destructive while others just 
 plain out fun. One mission called Fuzz allows you to punish the injustice the way you want whether 
 is running them down or unleashing hell with a rocket launcher, it's plain fun.
  
  The best one is Zombine Uprising, at first its not as bad as your fighting small groups, but eventually 
 things get hectic as more and more undead swarm you, may sound like Resident Evil, but it's freakin' 
 awesome.
  
  If you liked the first game, than you'll like the second but if your new to the series, this'll 
 peak your interest to check out the first game. It's also a good break from GTA but don't expect 
 anything groundbreaking, though the violent fun will help your forget that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madcalum1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  i think saints row 2 is amazing i think it is better that GTA IV. i think that the gamespot score 
 is quite mean it should be 9-10 luv it :D u could spend hour playing this game and not get bored 
 the story is great and when u are finished the story there is still loads to do. and co-op just 
 finishes the game it is very fun playing about with ur freind beating each other up with baseball 
 bats :P and the multiplayer is quite good i think it is one of my favourite games any one who like 
 GTA IV should get this game 
  
  graphics=9/10
  gameplay=9.5/10
  multiplayer8/10
  
  must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must 
 buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game 
 !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must 
 buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! must buy game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SandboxAddict
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  I loved Saints Row 1 for a lot of reasons: for the time great graphics, superb gameplay, mayhem, 
 fun and lot's of custumization options.
  
  Saints Row 2 doesn't revolutionize on any of the above, nor in general, but man, did i forget how 
 much fun the first was by playing this second installment! More cribs, that you can customize, 
 more facial expressions you can 'wear', and even a garage for your helicopters and a hangar for 
 your airplanes.
  
  Honestly, i have never had so much fun flying, and even LANDING a plane as in this title. Jump 
 out, and you can pop your parachute out. And what a view! Beats GTA IV in that respect.
  
  On the ground, the graphics look outdated, but i noticed after you play it for a while you get 
 used to this, and some (a lot, even) areas look downright gorgeous, in their own right.
  
  Back to planes: there are quite some to collect, from oldies to modern fast ones (one is called 
 Snipes 57, har har!) And oh, the cars.... so many of them, and so much to tweak. This is what sdandboxing 
 is about. Pummeling on with all kinds of stuff: from your clothes to your looks to even how you 
 beat up your opponent. 
  
  An 8 for the value you get, the funny HOURS on end and the story (which i truely loved for it's 
 B-movie quality) , is WAY to low for this great game.
  
  Do yourself a big favor, and forget bowling and dating in GTA IV and that annoying telephone (BIG 
 YAWN....) , and go play this. It's the best sandbox game up to date.
  
  Period.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is a game that is in no way a serious take on the genre, but dont worry that is all 
 intentional because Saints Row 2 has what GTAIV lacked, that childish sense of humor that 3, Vice 
 City, and San Andreas all had. Lets get down to brass tax.
  
  Pro:
  - Lots of side quests
  - insane level of customization
  - lengthy main quest
  - some interesting 
 and unique missions
  - Respect is a lot easier to gain this time around
  
  Cons:
  - Story is weak
  - Friendly AI is a bad as it gets
  - music selection is limited and for the 
 most part sucks
  - Climax of the game is a huge letdown
  - Some recycled content
  - Game is pretty easy even for the hardcore setting
  - Lots of recycled "Go there and kill everyone" 
 style missions
  
  So all in all SR2 is a very enjoyable game, that's worth a look even though its not reinventing 
 the wheel. I cant really see anyone replaying the main story though. As some missions are although 
 easy, are extremely frustrating and repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazznutty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Looking past a few minor graphical and gaming glitches, this game stands strong. It's story of 
 taking over the city holds reminiscent to GTA Vice City and San Andreas. In fact, because of planes, 
 and the other crazy things you can do this game is pretty much an next-gen version of GTA. The 
 activities are fun and don't make you play them 50 times, only 6. But the difficulty ramps up to 
 challenge you The game also features a very wide variety of customization, from gangs, cars, your 
 clothes, etc. It is slightly disappointing that the game is very easy at certain times, mainly 
 in the story mode. Also, the fact that there seems to be a lack of players participating in the 
 online play, diminishes the extended play of this game. This game really is worthy of near GTA 
 status, but not realistic by any means like GTA 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adumboy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This games biggest fault is that people compare it to GTA. So first things first, This is not GTA 
 the only similarities are the fact you can drive around and you can shoot and your a "gangsta". 
 It's not fair to compare this with GTA mainly because people seem to think that GTA is the rightful 
 owner of the sandbox game. GTA4 is a great game, but for me Saints Row 2 is better, maybe not graphically 
 or storyline wise but for sheer fun and time wasting as well as game play then it wins hands down. 
 The Activities are varied and fun there are some great ideas thrown into these side missions. Even 
 the diversions are great, Streaking and Flashing have to be the best original idea put into a game 
 in a long time. Co-op is the jewel in the crown for me, the ability to play with a friend without 
 changing a thing about the game, this game is fun on your own but it just gets better with a friend 
 you can spend hours messing around doing nothing of worth and still have fun and the fact you can 
 be at the airport flying planes while your friend is at the other side of the city doing some shopping 
 (the items bought get taken back to his game) makes this a true co-op experience. Oh i forgot to 
 mention that any items or cars you have from your game are taken to a friends game meaning your 
 pimped out ride can be taken from your garage in your friends game giving you the chance to show 
 of your ride. For anyone complaining this is to much like GTA, go and get yourself a copy and enjoy 
 a true sandbox experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtamaster2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  All and all Saints Row 2 is a pretty darn good improvement over Saints Row one. Yes the graphics 
 are a LITTLE better and the same glitches are still in this game. But with that out of the way 
 Saints Row 2 has its strong advantages. Such as a endless supply of weapons, new cars to drive, 
 and a far more advanced and interesting story line. And you can now customize pretty much everything 
 (gang, cars, cribs) and of course.. yourself. Another great addition to the game is that you are 
 now allowed to choice between a man or a woman. Over all Saints Row two feels like a vast upgrade 
 to Saints Row, but its still wroth buying. Saints Row 2 gets a 9.5 out of 10.
  
  The downsides to this game is well. 
  
  The graphics are only slightly improved. 
  The AI 
 is not as great if not the same as SR1
  The city has changed but after a while you get the same old feeling. 
  The "side" missions are 
 the same. 
  The same glitches that where in SR1 are in Saints Row 2
  The online play is not much improved which is a let down. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonHeart618
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I Believe this is exactly that. This game can be really fun at times. Mostly though, this game 
 is just a basic combination of San Andreas and Saints Row. San Andreas to me was a fabulous game 
 for the ps2. Saints Row was the very first game I got for the 360 but it doesn't compare to the 
 GTA franchise. Though the Zombie Uprising was pretty fresh. The vehicle controls were a bit difficult 
 to get used to and the graphics could have been better.
  Although the shooting is very fun, especially when you can take human shields, its very useful. 
 There are a whole bunch of little additions that you can find useful while playing the game. Its 
 also pretty cool that they have a difficulty selector. Letting you play on which difficulty suits 
 you.
  
  
  My overall rating of this game is very good game, but you need to play it a little before you think 
 about buying this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: safy_soldier
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  saints row 2 if a funny entertaining game with amazing missions, characters and vehciles. it carries 
 on from the first saints row and it starts out with you waking up in a comar 5 years later after 
 exploding on a ship (end of saints row) . you escape and find that stillwater has been changed into 
 a high class society and with the saints broke up you have to find a way to take back your city. 
 the thing that puts the game down is that even though saints row 2 has come out about 6 months 
 later than grand theft auto it has poorer graphics and less realism than gta4 but that is really 
 the downside. the other good thing about both saints row is that you can modify cars and paint 
 them and put loads of accessories on it which is really fun. also you can buy cribs and decorate 
 them with jacuzzi's and big screen tv's. saints row 2 focuses on the fun side than the graphical 
 and realism side, so if you are tired of playing grand theft auto then saints row 2 will make a 
 great substitute (i reccommend you shall complete the first before you play the second one) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kieranm2005
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  This is a really great game, it's what GTA4 should of been as this is like the best GTA game, GTASA. 
 This game is for people like me who felt GTA4 was a bit of a let down after playing GTASA. So if 
 you liked GTASA you will love this! The customisation on this game is the best I have seen, you 
 can customise nearly everything for example you can customise you gang to look like ninjas, you 
 can also chose gang cars. 
  
  The side actives are great as they are all so wacky and fun they are the most fun I have had on 
 the xbox360 to date. Even more so when you do it with a friend on co-op. Co-op is the best thing 
 about this game as you can do everything with your friend and the game scales it up accordingly 
 so its not just a cakewalk.
  
  So if your looking for something that is like GTASA except better and with more to do and total 
 freedom from the start then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TranceField
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Now that I have played GTA 4 and SR 2 I must say that SR 2 is a better game. In my opinion GTA 
 4 was way too serious. SR 2 has some pretty fun missions and side activities. Like the prison fight 
 club or driving the septic tank and spilling the septic tank waste on buildings, cars, and civilians. 
 Another great thing about this game is the crazy amount of customization you can do to every car, 
 motorcycle, home you own, and the unbelievable amount of character customization. You can even 
 customize the look of the Saint Row Saints gang.
  
  This game is highly underrated by many, but if you are a fan of sandbox games you won't be disappointed 
 when you spend your hard earned $60 at your local store. 
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XIG4METIM3IX
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Some people were saying that this game will suck ass compared to its seemingly superior rival (GTAIV) , 
 and some people were saying that it will demolish it. I was actually one of the people who were 
 agreeing that it would demolish it. But, after the wait and the playthrough (even thought I havent 
 beaten the main story yet) it turns out that it was a little of both. Graphics wise the game lacks 
 the visuals that GTAIV provided, the lighting, texture detail, and the feel of a NYC was there 
 in GTAIV, but Stillwater is NOT NYC. Since thats out of the way I have to say that gameplay wise 
 Saints Row 2 beats GTAIV in almost everyway. You can customize any car, Bikes, 4-Wheelers, Police 
 cars, Swat vans, or even a armored vehicle with a 50 on the top of it! Cusomization for the character 
 models is insane being able to customize even how the character walks. The story still has that 
 excitement, similar to some parts of GTAIV even though Saints Row 2 seems more gunplay action like 
 than GTAIV did. (faster paced maybe) The co-op is 2 player in Saints Row 2, and its GREAT! The 
 versus is not that good at all but was anyone actually expecting it to be? lol. Overall, this is 
 NOT a bad game at all, and if you like the story, if your a fan of the free-roam genre, or if you 
 just like to shoot **** up, its fun even though they made some of the activities harder to do with 
 only one person but that may be because im playing on the hardest difficulty with a friend. If 
 you like GTAIV, youll like this game so dont believe what some of the GTAIV fanboys say, and go 
 pick yourself up a damned copy lol. Youll have my word that youll like it, the graphics when you 
 FIRST put the game in are seemingly choppy compared to its rival, but after the 1st hour, you barely 
 notice. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abadmanx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  The game has everything that makes games fun. It has a decent plot, and a ton of entertaining activities. 
 My friend and I played for several hours only doing the mayhem activity (I love the infinite rocket) . 
 
  Pros
  -The character custom is fun to play with, especially the "smooth criminal" taunt. 
  -Not only 
 is the character fun to customize but the vehicles also have more options to customize and same 
 with the cribs. 
  -The melee combat is so addictive its hard not using it in a gun fight. I like how the moves are 
 actually based on real street fighting moves.
  -The motorcycles are incredible and with nitrous they are beastly
  -Some of my favorite old cars 
 are back (Attrizone, Oh baby!) along with the new ferrari like car
  -you can now pimp out cop cars
  -you can customize your gang (ninjas all the way)
  Cons
  
 -Sometimes the cars disappear (but I could care less)
  Lastly, I think its the best sandbox game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegendofYaslint
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  First off let me just say that Sain't Row 2 isn't a 9 out of 10 unless you have some friends who 
 enjoy this type of game and know how to play well with others in co-op mode. If so, you are in 
 for one heck of a treat! I've been playing online with my bro for the whole campaign now and it 
 has been a blast. Having someone else to share in the crazy sandbox action and laugh at all the 
 crazy stuff that happens really adds tons to the fun of the gameplay.
  
  As for the game itself, everything else is about average. The graphics are only ok, the gameplay 
 is only ok, the story is only ok. But playing online with a friend really does make this a AAA 
 experience so if you have online access and some like minded people on your friends list, this 
 title should add plenty of smiles and laughs to your gaming hours. I'm also from Champaign so I 
 love that they named a car the Danville lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_shake103
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  it's pretty good, but they walk you through a lot of it. the combat is different but it would have 
 been nice to see a bigger change after all the previews in articles did promise a lot. the story 
 is fairly good, and quite fun. it's a whole heap of joy online. the personality options in the 
 player creator are pretty entertaining, I'd like to see more abstract dialogue in this but what 
 are you gonna do. alternating plot lines would be a trendy change for the better possibly in another 
 sequel hopefully without a Japanese rogue samurai gang included. : () 
  
  
  
  
  a lot of people might not like this review but I think it's innovative and well nit unique but 
 maybe... useless
  
  I suggest actually renting the game and trying it for yourself. I don't know what else to say but 
 form your own opinion, homeskillet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctortolini
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  Let's take something out of the review... THIS GAME IS NOT GTA AND SHOULD NOT BE COMPARED TO IT... 
 Surely, they "look" alike but the same applies to almost every FPS there is and you don't find 
 people trying to compare them...
  
  Now, in the bad side, the graphics could have been better and the "citizens" AI could have been 
 improved a little... but for the sake of the game, those points mean really next to nothing.
  
  The objective here is to do bad things in the meanest way possible and get away with it... 
 Morality, justice and all that stuff are beyond your character comprehension so don't bother with 
 them...
  
  Game physics and mechanics are not that polished... granted... but then again, blowing stuff and 
 killing people do not demand a too well developed engine. At the end, you will probably agree with 
 me in saying that this game is not a technical achievement... but it is fun and absorbing... it 
 makes for a good escape from reality which is one of the main objectives of any good game. The 
 story behind the violence is interesting enough to keep you playing and the dialogues are very 
 funny... retorted... but funny...
  
  What everybody should note is that this game is definitely not for kids... the "M" needs to be 
 taken seriously... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreyArea
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  This game is stoopid
  
  But in the best way possible
  
  Goofy gags, smutty themes, heartless violence and a vast scope for adding your own personal brand 
 to your experience
  
  Anyone else who enjoys a high level of customization in their gaming, will appreciate the ability 
 to completely personalize how you play through this game
  
  If the gang who made all of the "Scary Movie / Epic movie etc" flicks, were to put their hand to 
 making a spoof of this year's most remarkable "other" open world, gangster game, Saints Row 2 would 
 be what they'd come-up with
  
  I find a Very easy pick-up-and-play'ability to this game. With the bonus of the missions (whether 
 story or side mission) , simply being conveniently accessible. I e, you can play this game at your 
 own pace, and either pick at it in bite-sized 15-30 minutes chunks, or just mince the whole cow 
 and sit down for the long haul
  
  The radio soundtracks are simply fantastic. 
   Any game with the b@lls to jam a Dillinger Escape plan track into their stations deserves major 
 kudos 
  
  7.5 (for now. I have a feeling I'll re-set to a full 8) .
  
  TgA
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rDMaN
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Lets start off pretty simple, If you were a fan of the Original Saint Row ,you will definatly enjoy 
 the second installement of this series.
  
  This game is some sort of a GTA IV but with a humoristic twist. The idea of being a gangster is 
 pushed to the limit!
  Youll have a great time playing trough this game as you can use lots of weapons, vehicules and 
 different fighting styles to kick the asses of your rivals gangs.
  
  As for the Gameplay. First off. You can fully customize your character and your gang (which are 
 the 3RD Street Saint's)
  Secondly, The targeting system is just awesome! You can Aim and run very easily. While sometimes 
 camera problems pops up, It wont affect the average fun your having with SR2.
  
  Graphics are really well done. The city feels alive. Not like GTA IV but It still does the job! Youll 
 really have a blast exploring Stillwater and all of its hidden places!
  
  The sound departement is pretty good. Every weapon seems authentic and the songs on the radio are 
 great.
  
  Overall i Had a great time with Saint's Row 2 and i Would recommend to anyone looking for some 
 pure intelligent fun! Or anyone into sandbox games! Plus the story is well done!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickyiscool
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 12:41 am PT
Review:  So all of you know the story you blew up on the first one and got into a coma. This time you find 
 out people took over stillwater and now your taking it back. Now to talk about gameplay. I think 
 its great the iron sights is a really great thing they put in, the human shield is really useful 
 and if your thru with your shield you can execute them with a neck snap or a flashy pistol to the 
 face. The melee combat is kick-ass you can choose from 3 fighting styles and they are cool but 
 i hope they have downloadable content for more. There are gliches in this game but its not really 
 that major.
  
  Co-op is a really amazing feature they put in, if you have a friend that has the game you two can 
 destroy stillwater together! You can complete everything together from small activities like Septic 
 Avenger to Big Missions like taking over the brotherhood. It hasn't lagged on me yet so i don't 
 think its a problem.
  
  Multiplayer is "diffrent" you can go through all the activities with a crew, While trying to raise 
 more money than the other crew. Haven't played online much so can't tell you much about it so thats 
 all.
  
  The character customization is , AMAZINGLY GOOD!! ITs really in depth and you can even create your 
 self with it (i made myself lol) and your character will never look the same as your friends but 
 your voice will because there is only 3 voices for each sex.
  
  This game is a must buy for saints row fans, (like me, i'm not a fcking fanboy either F@GS! i have 
 every GTA game and i think there great so STFU!) For people who like sandbox games, and for people 
 who like games where it is very unrealistic but really amazing at the same time LOL! It depends 
 if you like that stuff if you don't rent it and try it out if you don't like it go rent another 
 good game like dead space or somthing lol (advertisement!) but i'll give this a 10/10 but because 
 of the gliches a 9.5/10! HAVE FUN TAKING OVER STILLWATER hey maybe you'll see me online LATER! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stappy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  While other free-roam games take themselves far too serious, not allowing any kind of humour, Saints 
 Row 2 does the exact opposite. Instead of binding the player to one specific storyline, it binds 
 you to five. The Sons of Samedi, the Brotherhood of Stilwater, the Ronin, the Ultor Corporation, 
 and the Third Street Saints.
  
  The original was a nice add-in between Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, and IV. But it didn't have 
 as much as people wanted it to. However, the sequel focuses on Single Player rather than Multiplayer, 
 and if you're just looking for something to pass time with, you'll be pleasantly surprised.
  
  The physics and graphics act and look like the first one, which isn't really a bad thing since 
 it works for the suburb-crime ridden atmosphere. As far as i'm aware, there's at least two versions 
 of each activity, one on each island. According to the official forums, there's also over 30 secret 
 areas for players to explore.
  
  There's nothing else to say, except it's everything GTA IV was hyped up to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordChimera
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Yup they are back. It's rare that a sandbox crime game of this type i. e GTA will directly continue 
 the story from their previous game without even changing the map. However, somehow they have pulled 
 it off without it being the same game. The map is near identical to saints one but it feels much 
 more accesable this time. There are a few new areas to. I think that the best thing about this 
 game is the customisation. You can customise evrything from your gangs personality to your own 
 personal fighting style. You can change your car, your gang's cars, pretty much EVRYTHING bout 
 your physical and stylistic appearence and your fighting style. At the moment my gang is 'bodyguard' 
 style in which they all walk around either in suits with earpieces like doormen or in body armor. 
 My own private army. This time your the leader of the gang from the outset. The physics arent state 
 of the art but they arent trying to be. they are fun. Goooood game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikees1
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I brought my copy of saints row 2 on release day partly because i wanted somthing to do until Farcry 
 2 arives this week, but also because having played and completed The force unleashed it was an offer 
 of trade in and get SR2 for 9.99, a bargain i thought.
  
  Having played the first one i cant really see alot of difference between the two. Over the top story 
 line-check, cartoon graphics-check. i dint really expect to much from saints and it appears that 
 assumption was the right one. It has its moments i spose (crap spraying being one of them) but 
 it all gets a bit pointless after a few hours to the point that im now eagerly awaiting friday 
 when i can trade it in for farcry2!
  
  I know its been said that SR2 is a game that does not take its self to serious but i cant help 
 thinking that if it had it could have been a much better game and after playing GTA4 (it was bound 
 to get mentioned sooner or latter wasnt it?) this just seems like a step backwards. The vehicle 
 handling is absolutly atrocious with every land based vehicle handling exactly the same as the 
 last. Even with tyres shot out (which i did myself just to see if it lives up to gta) the cars 
 handle just the same as if they were fully inflated! The damage on the cars does not live up to 
 much either. Overall its been a couple of days distraction until a much beter game takes its place, iv 
 had the odd argument here and there with people on you tube defending this game but honestly how 
 many of you can say this is enjoyable after playing the titan that is GTA4? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sleepraider
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  This is like sanandreas excellent i have gta 4 aswell and saints row 2 is well better ttttttttt 
 ttttttttttttt tttttttt t ttttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttttttt tttttttttttt 
 ttttttttttt ttttttttttt tttttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttt ttttttt tttttttt tttttttttttttt tttt tttttttttttt 
 ttttttttttt ttt t tttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttt ttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttt tttttttttttt 
 tttttttttt ttttttttt tttttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttt t ttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttttttt 
 ttttttttttt tttttttt tttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttttt tttttttt ttttt tttttttttt ttttttttttt 
 ttttttttttt ttttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttt tttttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttttt ttttttttttt 
 ttttttttttt t ttttttttttt tttttttt t tt tttttttt ttttttttttt t tttttttttttt tttttttttttt tttttttttt 
 ttttttttttt tttttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttttt tttttttttttt tttttttttttt ttttttttttt 
 tttttttttttttt tttttttttttttt ttttttttttttttt ttttttttttt tttttttttttt ttttttttt tttttttt ttttttttttttt 
 ttttttttttttt ttttttttttttt ttttttttttt tttttttttt tttttttttttttt ttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttt 
 ttttttttttt tttttttttttt ttttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttttt ttttttttt tttttttttt ttttttttttt 
 tttttttttttt tt ttttttttttt tttttttttttt tttttttttttt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riddickfan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is really the best game I have ever played. Reasons include cause everything is customizable 
 and changable. The dual wielding is pretty impressive and since u get a gun about half a min into 
 the game makes the game move faster than any I have played. I never got bored of it and probaly 
 never will cause it takes quite a while to beat and now I wanna try it again. The new stuff in 
 this game is overwhelming compared to the first. If your looking to buy this game I'd highly recommend 
 it. O yea and since I've been seeing a beef between GTA4 and Saints Row 2 here's what I think. 
 I've played both and own both and honestly I put my money on Saints row 2. Funner, better missions, 
 and overall presentation is more entertaining. But if your looking to buy this or GTA4, I would 
 say get Saints Row 2!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GtA -- RuLeS
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best games on the shelf to day, if not the best. i really think this game is 
 better than grand theft auto 4, and it should of been the game with the ten and grand theft auto 
 should of got a 8 and not saints. i give this game a 10.1/10, and i hope you feel the same way 
 about this game to! its full of great things to do, great graphics, fun activities to do, and great 
 game play hope you enjoy this game as much as i do!!! !!! !!! !!! guarantee you will like this 
 game if not love it it was the best thing sense food that says allot dosn't it well i think that's 
 really it for now :) THIS GAME ROCKS !!! !!! !! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!!! !!! !!! !!! !! !!! !!! 
 !!! !! !!! !!! !! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!! !!! (SAINTS RULZ) !! !! !! !! !! !!! !! !! !! !!! !! !! !!! 
 !! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! ! !!! !!! !!!! ! ! ! ! ! !! 
 ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
  this game is sweet 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Catacome
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 does what GTA IV doesn't do... MAKES THE GAME FUN!!! Just to get that out of the way. 
 Now I've had Saints Row 2 sense it came out and I'll be honest, I love the game. It has so many 
 activities to do, A GREAT storyline, and AWESOME customization. In This game you come back from 
 a 5 year delay because you have been in achoma. Now you are back and the city has went crazy with 
 3 new gangs. The Brotherhood ( A big into Tribal Gang) , The Ronin ( A Big into Katana's Gsng) , 
 and The Sons of Samdei ( Jamaican drug cartel) . Now you have lost a lot of saints because Troy 
 is chief of Police, Dex is a Sellout, and Julius is missing. The only one who is still loyal (Hold 
 in your EXCITEMENT) is Johnny Gat!!!!! He is still your Homie. You come back to StillWater and 
 Find everyone thinks the saints are dead and over. Well you come back to show them wrong if you 
 can do it. Everything in this game is so SICK LOOKIN!!!! I have not heard one person say that this 
 game is not good. Anyone who is thinking about getting this, If you read this review, then you 
 have to get it... It will be the best sixty dollars you have ever spent. I would even recommend 
 the Collectors Edition. It comes in a nice Shiney Engraved box with a diamond money clip and a 
 Usb flashdrive shaped like a bullet. This a DEFINATE BUY. Trust me on this one guys. Gears of War 
 2 is going to have some competition. You Can Trust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElChino223
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  After the disappointment of Gta 4 I wanted more so I chose Saints Row 2. And this game is worth 
 the wait there are some many cars weapons and exploring the city is awesome. There are tractors 
 planese and a large variety of weapons and the veichles are fun to drive and are a blast to race 
 with. The single player campaign is worth the price of an XBOX 360.
  
  This game is genoius and instant classic. The missions are varied and quite and the difficulty 
 is perfect the story is fun and complex. Anyway this is the true grand theft auto. This game will 
 provied hours of entretainment to anyone who seeks a fun game.
  This game will provied hours of entretainment to anyone who seeks a fun game.
  This game will 
 provied hours of entretainment to anyone who seeks a fun game.
  This game will provied hours of entretainment to anyone who seeks a fun game.
  This game will 
 provied hours of entretainment to anyone who seeks a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarfface
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This Game would make a great series like Grand Theft Auto, but better. Saints Row 1 made a good 
 start, but it was just like everyother do what ever you want game,
  it just took something from GTA, like going into a store
  with a gun and no one cares, or carjacking. 
 When Saints Row 2 came out, I think that it beat the @!%$ out of GTA. In the game Saints Row 2 
 added alot more thing thst GTA could not do, like making a full custom car, or the new badass multiplayer. 
 Multiplayer is the best thing in Saints Row 2. I like to do missions with friends and kill people 
 like crazy. Multiplayer is as fun as &!@%?!@ off to a porno movie.
  
  Like I said this game beats the HOLY @!&$ out of GTA. This game needs a 10.
  
  And last, the 
 thing thats also cool about this game is the soundtrack. What more fun than listening to Paramore 
 while running over people in Monster Truck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acurate_Bob
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Now lets start with its obvious comparisom, GTA IV. The previous GTA were much better because it 
 was less real, and more funny and much MUCH less serious. GTA IV is quite a real type of game, 
 looks real, cars handle quite real too, which is good, but on a game like GTA it isint a good thing.
 
  
  Saints Row 2 however hasnt grown up and so hasnt got boring yet, not by a long way...
  
  It never takes itself seriously, its nearly allways funny, but does also handel seriousness 
 with brutality.
  
  Theres plenty to do in the new Stilwater, but wait, while driving, or flying, around you will recognise 
 lots of areas from the first Saints Row, which makes sence since its the same city. 
  
  GTA IV has, struggling to remember if there are any side missions, ah yes, races, the telephone 
 hitman things, pigeons and jumps... FUN!!! erm noo.
  
  Saints row has Snatch, Protection, Races, drug trafficing, fuzz (LMAO funny) , jumps, aircraft (from 
 tri-planes, bi-planes, WW2 fighters, fighter jets, a cobra and apache style of attack choppers, 
 commercial jets, smaller nimble choppers, should i go on???) destruction derbys, mayhems, insurance 
 fraud, do you see what i mean???
  
  This game will keep you wrapped up for hours, i had been on it for about 15 hours before i even 
 touched the story mode and never got bored of taking hostages in the planes, lol, which i jump 
 out of and use my, yes thats right, my parachute!!!.
  
  Theres really nothin quite as good as dropping through the sky into a building just to see me bounce, 
 lol.
  
  Get this game, pritty much the only thing it doesnt have is tanks, and if there is one, i aint 
 found it, yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitesilver
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  too much fun
  this game is mint
  storyline is mint
  mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
 mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint mint 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kabal152
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  SR2 is just flat out fun to play. It's hard to write a review about this game and not bring up 
 GTA. The last incarnation of GTA wasn't fun to play. Was it spectacular to look at, HILLS YEAH!!! 
 To me the game took it self to seriously and people got to liberal with the 10 Ratings. SR2 brings 
 that hilarity back to the Sandbox. This game is just joyful. You'te not loaded down with a hardcore 
 gritty urban story, it's hard core but it stays true to the original premise of "LETS HAVE A FRIGGIN 
 PARTY AND BLOW SUMTHIN UP (HAHAHAHA) !!! I don't want alot of realism in these games, real life gangsters 
 aren't funny. I want trailer parks and chicks with fat butts. That's funny. The customization is 
 crazy. For me and my OCD brethren we can spend days fixing stuff to our liking. Alright I am headed 
 back to th basement and getting my swerve on.
  
  later
  kabal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmaniac
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing but to the people that want to compare it with GTA4 they are wrong, because 
 saints 2 is a great game but not better of GTA4.
  It's entreating and you have a lot of fun playing it.
  4 reasons of why I chose this game.
 
  
  1._ The creation of characters, this make this game unique and very different from the others open 
 world games. When you create your character make the game more personal and fun because you can 
 dress him like a girl.
  
  2._ The BUZZ this mini game makes saints 2 more fun because you are a cup and you have a camera 
 man in you car that record all that you do.
  
  3._ The personalisation of cars that is something I would like to see in GTA again. You can make 
 the cars look better and funny.
  
  4._ You cna fly aeroplanes and helicopters that something that I would like to see again in GTA. 
 That make the game more destructive and fun again.
  
  But sometimes it looks like a play station 2 game with better graphics, that is the only thing 
 I see wrong in this game is fun and a good sequel of saints row 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Del
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely awesome, just plain fun, highly addictive and very playable.
  
  The game begins when your character wakes up from a coma in the prison. Then you gets to customise 
 your character. 
  
  The customisation is the most in-depth I've seen in video games, you could make almost anyone you 
 want, the option is almost limitless, this is actually one of the best feature in Saints Row 2. 
 You could play as either female or male, and yes, it's one of very few open games where you gets 
 to play as female. You could make your character a muscular bad-ass or a skinny gangster wannabe, 
 or even a fat tough looking clown, while making your character fatter or more muscular doesn't 
 mean he/she gets bigger but your character will actually looks fat or full of muscle like in real 
 life. The facial customisation is very detail, you could add make-up for the character as you like 
 as each kind of make-up will open more option to make your character looks as you want him/her 
 to look. There're great number of hairstyles available for you at start, and you could also customise 
 your character's hair colour with 2 primary and secondary colours. Other than that, you can customise 
 character's voice (with 3 male, 3 female voices, each with different lines) , your character's fighting 
 style, facial expression, walking style, taunts... Later in the game, you could customise your 
 cribs, gang's style, your gang's car and buy new clothes, tattoos, jewelries.
  
  The world in Saints Row 2 is pretty huge (150% bigger than the original) , as you have the world 
 open from the beginning with no invisible walls anywhere. You could travel from this end of the 
 city to the other without a single loading scene. The world is dynamic, full of different NPCs, 
 sometimes you could catch a couple sitting on each others' laps, people reading newspaper, a skater 
 falls over on the sidewalk, ... etc. people reacts as you progress through the game (for example 
 you are playing a Ronin mission, people could come to you and tell you how they don't like them 
 and wish for you to get rid of them)
  
  The gameplay is as great as ever, the game is over-the-top with SO many things to do. With diversions 
 you could perform them anywhere on the maps like Taxi diversion where you take over a taxi business, 
 Car surfing where you balance yourself on top of a car, hold-up where you robs stores and so many 
 more... to get both respect and money. And all the great activities like Insurance Fraud, Mayhem, 
 Demolition Derby, Drug Trafficking... are coming back from SR1 adjusted so it's much more enjoyable, 
 there're new ones as well like Septic Avenger where you spray human waste on property, Fight Club, 
 Trail Blazing, Crowd Control... The Missions, Stronghold are also very well-designed, to give you 
 as much fun as possible, they don't ever feel repetitive. 
  
  When you're tired, you could get back to your crib and enjoy a video game on your TV - Zombie Uprising.
 
  
  The graphic is good, Saints Row 2 is not an ugly game, occasionally the graphic's pretty great, 
 the main characters are full of detail. There're tons of popular music in Saints Row 2, divided 
 into different genre, if you want to listen to what you like, you could always buy a song in music 
 store and add it into your playlist.
  
  There're plenty of glitches, but they don't effect the game very much, the difficulty is just right, 
 there're checkpoints throughout the missions and a new auto-save so you won't find it very frustrating. 
 Activities are somewhat hard at level 5-6 but very rewarding.
  
  The replayable value is indeed very high, with so many things to do I couldn't get tired of the 
 game. The game is great, and a real joy to play, I couldn't recommend it highly enough. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forklite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Newsweek also gives SR an A-. WARNING: THIS GAME PAWNS AND DESTROYS San Andreas!!! When it comes to 
 open-world games, there are two types of players out there. There are those that like to play through 
 the game's campaign, collecting hidden objects, playing through sub-missions, and generally going 
 through the motions of the game's storyline. Then, there are those who just like to jump in and 
 blow crap up, causing a ton of damage without scratching on the surface of the game's storyline. 
 For the second brand of open-world gamer, there is Saints Row 2.
  
  As far as Saints Row 2 is concerned, there is no avoiding comparison to Grand Theft Auto IV. They 
 both touch on common ground in terms of gameplay and overall theme, but there are some things that 
 Saints Row 2 does take to set itself apart from the latter. Whereas the Grand Theft Auto series 
 has been taking an exceedingly realistic approach to the genre, Saints Row 2 seems to go the complete 
 opposite route, allowing the player to truly get into some ridiculous situations that look insane, 
 but are also a lot of fun to pull off. While the game certainly has some shortcomings, like technical 
 issues and buggy gameplay, it's still a blast for gamers who just want to hit the streets of Stillwater 
 and blow something up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunslinger_boy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Okay, I'm first going to start off by saying, I am not going to turn this review into a bashing 
 session between GTA and SR. Everyone either likes them both or one over the other. That is how 
 it is. Therefore, I will only talk about SR2 here. On that note, SR2 is a big improvement over 
 the first, but how so? Read on to find out.
  
  
  First things first, the graphics in SR2 are great, but not outstanding. For being 2008, I would 
 have thought that the amount of clipping, pop-ups, (and even the disappearing of cars!) could have 
 been reduced or eliminated. Fortunately, they have been fixed and happens less than in the first. 
 But when the game is running full blast everything looks cool and has a nice shine to it. Water 
 effects look great, and now you can drive boats and even jet skis to compliment it. Now explosions 
 look like explosions instead of an orange ball, which leads temptation into blowing whatever you 
 can up. 
  
  Now for the meat and potatoes of the game, the gameplay. For the most part, the controls are exactly 
 the same as the first, however, you have some new ones to keep things fresh and interesting. For 
 one, you have a cruise control button, mapped to one of the shoulder buttons. This greatly helps 
 while shooting when driving. Also, you have and over-the-shoulder aiming button when you click 
 down the right analog stick, which helps you nail down precise shots (perfect for lining up those 
 nut-shots. Yes you have them, borrowed from Scarface) . The fighting from the fist needed some work. 
 All you had was punches mapped to the triggers. Now you have a combo system. When you input different 
 combinations, you have a different finisher, which includes a knee to the face and a swift kick 
 to the family jewels (ouch!) . Also, you gain new fighting styles after you beat certain missions. 
 
  
  
  Now, you even have access to planes and helicopters, and to add the cherry ontop of the ice cream, 
 you have parachutes! And the for the extra cherry, if you hold forward while falling you will go 
 into a nose dive, while back does a cannon ball roll; even the parachute have challenges attached 
 to them. The story seems to be very long. My friend and I were seven hours in, and only beat the 
 Ronin missions, and were at 16%. Which included some activities. As for the activities, there are 
 too many to list, but include spraying contents of a septic tank onto property to lower its value 
 and riding an atv that is lit on fire to catch others on fire. Ridiculous, but fun. Taking human 
 shields are also implemented into the game, and works quite well if you are in need of a quick 
 shield. However, there is no cover system, as found in most other FPSs. You can even car surf! 
 There is even more that I haven't said, believe it, that you can do that I haven't stated. 
  
  Onto the multiplayer, which deserves its on section. you have the typical deathmatch an what 
 not the you also have a variant called Strong Arm where taking over your enemies territories and 
 killing their team nets you big cash bonuses and other nifty rewards. You even have a badge system 
 (thing Battlefield: Bad Company) where fulfilling certain goals gets you a badge to prove it. Original, 
 no. Fun and immersive, YES! And I have to say it: ONLINE CO-OP IS REVOLUTIONARY! As promised, the 
 whole story, and game for that matter is playable with a friend or someone over Xbox Live and PSN. 
 And it is even drop-in and drop-out at any time! When playing co-op, there is hardly any lag, and 
 generally runs and plays like you were playing solo. Also a first, the game is co-op, and so is 
 the freedom. You can be on one side of the map buying clothes, and your partner can be on the other 
 taking part in a robbery. Again, limitless freedom, and proof that developers can make something 
 new with effort. 
  
  Story wise, the game succeeds in this with flying colors (no pun intended) . It picks up were the 
 first left off a few years later. After getting back on your feet, you are off to set things right. 
 The quality of the cutscenes are great and are filled with loads of humor and lots of action. Characters 
 die, and you feel sad and get angry while new characters are introduced and you are interested 
 to see their side of things. The great thing about it is that the quality remains throughout, and 
 never feels rushed. 
  
  
  In terms of sound, SR2 has a bunch going for it, but still, somethings missing. People, cars, guns, 
 and explosions all sound solid, but you can hear some of the same lines over again. However, not 
 near as many as in Mercenaries 2! Radio stations are varied and carry many top songs that are on 
 real radio stations around the world. Once in a while, you will hear the sound effects go quiet 
 for a second, then start again. Not major, and hardly noticeable. 
  
  HOWEVER THIS IS THE PART FOR NEGATIVITY! This game is far from perfect. I have played around 12 
 hours and have had the game crash on me twice, forcing me to restart my 360 on both occasions. 
 Once during a Drug Trafficking activity and the other during the Crowd Control activity. The online 
 co-op will lag occasionally, which lasted for maybe 10 minutes (half the problem may be the dsl 
 on my part) . Online play is for the most part smooth, but I have only played a couple of matches 
 of Strong Arm. 
  
  
  Even though it has it's share of problems SR2 is a great game, that makes up for it's problems 
 with variety and lasting appeal. From the get-go, you are literally overwhelmed with things to 
 do, that can take you months to complete. If you are looking for a game with great humor, fun gameplay, 
 an interesting story, and don't mind some technical problems, definitely give this game a shot. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtMMMbop_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  The first Saints Row had a problem with reviewers being afraid to give it the score it deserved 
 - as in, "I don't care how good it is, since it's a GTA-style game, we can't score it highly or 
 people will mock us for praising a clone!" This wasn't the case with all media outlets, but it 
 was still quite rampant. The same seems to have happened here. Despite the "8"s you are seeing 
 from reviewers, this game is easily on par with GTA4 and in some was surpasses it. And don't let 
 anyone try to fool you otherwise.
  
  SR2 doesn't reinvent itself, but it is damn fun. The combat was already vastly superior to the 
 GTA series with the first title, so not much needed to change this time around. Character customization 
 is also another great feature that you can get lost in for quite a while.
  
  The overall attitude is more light-hearted/less-serious than GTA, and it only adds to the enjoyment 
 of the game. These titles are asinine to begin with, it doesn't help when the storyline is ultra-serious.
 
  
  If you have the first game but didn't think too much of it, you won't necessarily be wowed with 
 the change from the first game to the second. However, if you LIKED the first game, there is zero 
 reason not to pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soufan123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is a must buy for all Open-World Sandbox Gamers. It is filled with an entire new Stilwater 
 to explore, and many, many, many new activites to earn respect with. SR2 has now gone fully co-op, 
 being able to play the entire campaign, activites, and just havin fun. The Single-player has outstanding 
 voice acting and the graphics were even kicked up a notch, now looking slick and smooth. The multi-player 
 portion is always fun in Saints Row, with crazy run & gun action, now filled with new modes, great 
 customization, and upgraded lobbies, anyone will have fun. The dislikes I have towards this game 
 are as follows: There are no more gangs online ( which I thought was the whole point of the game) , 
 sometimes the games can get extremely laggy (but not enough to worry) , the online store isn't really 
 filled at all ( not many things to buy) , and they took away some awesome modes from SR1!! ( Protect 
 the Pimp, Blinged out Ride) . All in all, I think this game is terrific, a must buy for fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weaponmaster01
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  It's like a 40 year old guy getting his lights punched out by an infant. I say this in reference 
 to the comparisons between GTA IV and newly released Saints Row 2.
  
  Don't get me wrong, I thought GTA IV was pretty neat, the sheer realism and addictive storyline 
 helped keep it interesting and fun, but then we cross over into Saints Row, where we get to pretty 
 much do whatever the heck we want, no limitations, and all sorts of customizations. Variety and 
 addictive destruction is what won me over between the bouts going about between SR and GTA.
  
  Enough about the debate however, the reason I think this game deserves a 10 out of 10 is because 
 it's definitely an improvement over it's first installment. The storyline is much darker, yet very 
 achieving and immersive, the glitches and graphics are refined, your character is a lot more involved 
 and narrates very well, no matter what voice you decide for him or her to use (for those of you 
 who were unaware, you can choose different voices for your character to use during the customization 
 process) . The customization of your individual character is deep enough, but the ability to customize 
 your rides and cribs, makes it all the more fun and addictive. The ability to ride helicopters, 
 airplanes, boats, and jet skis, are pluses. The ability to sky dive was awesome. The customization 
 and fun factor are just through the roof with this game. And I have to say I wish I put my money 
 on this and forgot GTA IV ever existed. That sounds harsh, but this game totally rocks GTA like 
 it never had a chance.
  
  This game was made with one thing in mind, and that was to let the player have fun no matter what 
 they were doing. And as a gamer I can say they won me over with this one, I just can't get enough 
 of it. My favorite gang rival is the Ronins, which similate a Yakuza type gang of Japanese bike 
 riders. You'll also face off against the Sons of Samedi, and the Brotherhood, which are also interesting 
 in their own rights.
  
  I can go on and on and on about the possibilities the game has in store for it's players. All I 
 have to say to the die hard GTA fans who refuse to allow this game a place in society is that you 
 guys Cannot deny that it was not fun. I don't believe this game has any relation in accordance 
 to GTA anymore then other installments, which I know are out there. The concept of open world "free 
 roam" originated all the way back to the 64 days, when games like Ocarina of Time and Donkey Kong 
 where the top dogs. To sit there and belittle a game with so much potential seems childish, but 
 then again opinions are opinions. For me though, I'd definitely tell you to go rent it and try 
 it out, it's definitely worth putting down GTA IV for.
  
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 10
  Gameplay: 10
  Replay Value: Very High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariokart64fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  gameplay wise, the game plays like any sand box game made before it but it executes all that much 
 better , then gta iv had done , the vehicles have nice handling like gta san andreas /saintrow 
 1 , 
  
  plus theres cruis control , name one game that had this , nome theres your first improvment over 
 not just saints row but sanbox games all together
  
  
  the customization options are unheard of ,even in comparsion to gta san andreas , you seen saints 
 row, well saints row 2 does what saints row did and more, 
  examples
  
  aility to paint a cop car any color you want 
  
  customizable tire sizes customizable houses 
 everything is customizable and guess what else, you can now store a semi , inside a garage , 
 
  cant do that in saints row 1 or gta 
  
  
  the grphics is the only aspect keepin it from a 10 , .-5 for the lack of not much improvment in 
 damage area , to cars, 
  everything else graphic wise is better less flaws , less glitches and wheres the disappearin cars 
 ? hasnt happen to me yet, 
  
  
  the value again like i said loads of customizations lots of cars to drive, and the ability to fly 
 air planes helicopters drive boats and bikes all the activities missions collection items all this 
 will keep you coming , for hours after you conmplete the missions , /strongholds and theres alot 
 more this time, id say double the amount of missions/strong holds from last tinme more areas in 
 the updated city in fact
  
  the first thing when you start you start in one of the new areas, i think a fragment of it was 
 in saints row but it was a small island with just a bed on it , 
  
  but ya more areas, more races more everything and best of all , no annoying calls from roman or 
 some other moron , (im refering to gta iv) the ability to throw any one or pick up any thing you 
 can pick up , , thats what i call freedom , 
  
  heres what i dont call freedom
  
  in gta iv 
  your not allowed inside the airport 
  
  you cant fly planes
  
  you cant customize 
 any car
  your on call almost every minute of the game even after you finish the game, , (melinie im talkin 
 ahouit you lol) those gitls in gta iv are the worst part, 
  dont get me started on that gay guy they make you date, 
  
  you cant buy property in gtaiv 
 but you can in saints row how im not gonna say lol, 
  overall ,, saints row -9.5 quality of freedom and all 
  
  gta iv a 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JasonDarksavior
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  What can I say! Saints Row is a masterpiece. Saints Row 2 has a massive array of awesome kick-ass 
 weapons to use, a lot of side missions to do ranging from insurance fraud to killing people for 
 fun, fun & silly plotline, graphics are not too shabby and fantastic gameplay. Saints Row 2 is 
 a must buy! 
  
  We all know how much weapons count in a 'sandbox' game.... Just look at Grand Theft Auto (Pistols 
 & Machine Guns) ! However, Saints Row 2 has just overtook Grand Theft Auto's place. There are so 
 many weapons to use in this game such as stun guns, .50 pistols, heavy machine guns, katanas, sledgehammers 
 and even chainsaws with amazing effects. These are can be bought at a nice price from stores such 
 as Friendly Fire or Brass Knuckles. What stands out, is the gruesome effect of the chainsaw, which 
 reminds you of Gears Of War! You'll be checking out the weapons for hours.... Bravo!
  
  What Grand Theft Auto: IV lacked was a bunch of side missions! Guess What. Saints Row 2 is packed 
 with em! You can do activites such as Base Jumping, FUZZ (a reality police show) , Insurance Fraud 
 and Mayhem missions which require you to kill everything & everybody you see. Apart from the 40 
 or so, single player missions, there are many many side activities to participate in! 
  
  The plotline may not be like Grand Theft Auto: IV and is not A+, but that is exactly what makes 
 this game so great! Its humourous and thin storyline... It may not be very serious, but you'll 
 find youself chuckling... On another note, graphics may not be the best, you've seen, however they 
 are not poor either. Graphics are slightly above the average Xbox 360 game. 
  
  Overall, Saints Row 2 is a game that everyone who enjoys a 'sandbox' game would enjoy. This game 
 is great and offers hours and hours of fun and addictive gameplay!
  
  Buy Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zumlinz
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I really wanted to like this game and have been looking forward to it for quite some time. 
  
  But this has been a huge let down. The graphics are worse than any game I've played on the 
 Xbox 360. I'm playing on an HD television (bought primarily for the Xbox) and it's not the TV, 
 it's the game. Screen Tearing is horrible, draw-in on distances is horrible, pop-ins and pop-outs 
 are horrible -- there's no continuity if people and cars completely disappear if the camera turns 
 around briefly.
  
  The physics are also inferior to those featured in Saints Row 1. The cars mostly all drive the 
 same, with gross differences worse than anything ever seen in the GTA series. It's hard to enjoy 
 this game with such obvious flaws. It doesn't need to be GTA4, but there have to be some standards 
 and immediately apparent production values to justify dropping $60 on it. 
  
  The features in SR2 are nice and entertaining, but the core of the game is flawed, making the game 
 as a whole hard to swallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayermaster123
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  its impossible for people to talk about saints row 2 without gta 4, so i decided to compare them
 
  difficult|saints row 2 and gta 4 both had really nice awesome missions that were easy and hard 
 but saints row 2 took the bigger slice because of the settable difficulty
  graphics|gta 4 took the graphics looking nicer with better shine and more realistic blood effects
 
  voice acting|the voice acting in each game is superb and the faces show real emotion when they 
 talk
  aggravation|gta 4 made me extremely mad on certain missions while so did saints row 2 but a lot 
 less, although some missions seam impossible
  online|gta 4 takes this piece, giving outstanding death match and team game modes, with free mode, 
 while saints row 2's online was a bag of farts, although the co-op in story mode is simply amazing
 
  co-op|gta 4 does not have co-op in story saints does
  story|gta 4 has a compelling story in a serious tone, while saints row 2s story is centered on 
 a larger goal and takes interesting twists and turns
  main missions|gta 4 is 90% made up of main missions everything else is quick encounters with friends 
 and the times you take people out to shows and **** in saints row 2 you also have missions and 
 to do each mission you getting reputation for each missions
  side missions|gta 4 shows few side missions and generally hidden, while saints row 2 has numerous 
 activity's
  distracts|gta 4 has sandbox, stunt jumps, and flying rats, while saints row 2 had the small activity's 
 that pop up over the game, like hostages, store robbing base jumping ect.
  plain fun things|gta 4 fast driving explosions , saints2 base jumping! planes! NINJAS!!!
  physics|gta 
 4 has a more realistic physics engine while saints is less real but still exceptional
  transportation|gta 4 : cars bots and helicopters saints 2: boats cars helicopter planes customization|gta 
 4: clothing saints 2 : gang customization, extremely deep character customization including walk 
 styles fight styles taunts and compliments
  bugs/glitches|gta 4 has no bugs yet reported saints 2 has a small bug were your console/pc freezes 
 after more than 8 hours of straight co-op
  maturity|gta 4 has adult language and shows ho's and strippers it also has minor blood. saints 
 2 also shows adult language and ho's also strippers, extra blood and gore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunkenyak
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Without trying to compare it to GTA, I will say that Saints Row 2 has come a long way since our 
 first visit to the city of Stillwater. After 5 years in a coma, a lot has changed. Welcome home....
 
  
  Graphics: Good
  
  The graphics are improved, but not by much. They are definitely good enough to show off the new 
 Stillwater. Everything seems to show up instantly although sometimes a few textures may take a 
 little bit to clear up. That usualy only happens if you play for a long time without giving your 
 360 a chance to cool off.
  
  Sound: Good
  
  All of the sound effects are great, but my main complaint here is the music. Not only does there 
 seem to be less of it, but for some reason they axed some of the stations including the talk radio. 
 This is also bad if you like rap and don't like r&b or oldschool because it's all mixed together 
 now. You'll probably find yourself switching the stations a lot.
  
  Gameplay: Great
  
  This is where this game really shines. The story missions have been similar in what your objectives 
 are, but the ways you go about completing them are fun. This games also has lots of customization. 
 You can customize your character, your cribs, your cars, and even your gang.
  
  Aside from that, there are tons of other things to do when you want to take a break from the story 
 line. You can go on scavenger hunts for jumps, cds, tags, or secret areas. Or you can take on the 
 games many activities such as the fight club, or check out the diversions like taxi missions and 
 ho-ing.
  
  Doing these activities almost always lead to reward unlocks. These can be a new vehicle, permanent 
 increases in damage, customization options, clothes, and weapons. So it's worth taking the time 
 to do all the distractions this game has to offer.
  
  Owning territory has been improved as well. When you own territory you still get money every day, 
 but now you can buy businesses and get a cut in the profits as well. You will also receive discounts 
 from the stores you own, and that can come in handy.
  
  If you want to know what it's like to be one of your many npc victims, then you can hop on xbox 
 live and take part in the multiplayer. There are several modes you can enjoy, but you pretty much 
 won't know what they are until you get in the game unless you create your own party. 
  
  The matches can be fun, but they are usualy pretty quick, and don't expect to live long. From my 
 experience it was who has the better gun? A shotgun at close range can kill you in one hit, while 
 it may take you two clips from your default smg to take someone down. Luckly there are several 
 online modes to enjoy such as the famed co-op.
  
  Replay Value: Ok
  
  Games like this don't seem to have much to offer in the way of replay value in my opinion. However 
 if you are the type of person that would like to create different looking characters and run them 
 through then you won't have any problems playing again. Also you can still play through the story 
 again in co-op if you like to unlock achievments, or just want the company.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  
  If you liked the original Saints Row even just a little bit, then I highly 
 suggest you give this game a go. For me it was worth the price tag. If you didn't like the first 
 one and like similar games such as GTA, I would still suggest you at least try it out. Finaly, 
 if you don't like games like this at all, then why are you reading this review? lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buzzrock70
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Once again let's get the GTA IV comparison outta the way, both games are sandbox, you do bad things 
 to people, you drive, you play missions..
  
  But this game is so over the top and fun, it doesn't take it self serious & the whole map is open 
 from the start..
  
  The customization is evident from the start, with the character creation. I opted for a hot female, 
 barely clothed, and went out and found a tattoo parlor right away. :)
  
  The missions are fun, but after the first 4 I found myself sidetracked by all the activities..
 
  
  Racing is fun and the controls are alot tighter than GTA 4, Mayhem is just pure Chaos, Fuzz is 
 also laugh out loud funny, with streakers you have to apprehend after you pull them out of a van 
 that is rocking so dont come knocking. The only activity I found boring so far is one called Hole-IN -- 
 its basically using the 2 analog sticks to try to pleasure the opposite sex -- its pretty stupid.
 
  
  There are little surprises along the way that just made me go wow -- I'll share one --
  
  I went to a Music store, and bought a few tunes -- I added them to my playlist, which then is 
 a radio station you can choose -- So I'm driving along listening to Simple Minds "Dont you forget 
 about me" when my character starts singing along, and it was f'ing hilarious.. This also unlocked 
 an achievement btw.
  
  This is the funnest game I played on the 360 -- and finally as taken me away from playing pacifism 
 on geo2 revolved -- 
  
  Its no GTA 4, and thank god, its a ton better!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corn822
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Saints row 2 is a game that is just plain fun. This game remind me of old school GTA fun it seems 
 that they have taken what GTA forgot and enhanced it. They did not go onto the realistic road rather 
 they stay true to the old formula that made the 1st saints row and other GTA games great. The only 
 downfall of the game I would say would be the multiplayer because of the often lag but should be 
 resolved quite soon but isent a big issue considering the the single player will keep you busy 
 enough. The game not only has great missions but great activities that will keep you busy for hours 
 of fun game play. Other than missions and great activities the game also has businesses that you 
 can own, fully custimizable character, cribs, gang outfits and style, but even to each car you can 
 form to have a different looks every aspect of this games works out great. I would recommend this 
 games to anyone who liked saints row 1 or anyone who is a fannboy of the old school GTA. A- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  As people may see, they think of Saints Row as a normal GTA ripoff. Well guess what? Its not. Saints 
 Row is probably one of the best sandbox games out there. GTA IV holds the concept of realism. Saints 
 Row wants players to have fun in the game. Here is what i think Saints Row is:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not bad at all. If people make games this big you expect them to have 
 good graphics? They are no where near as good as GTA IV, but at least they are inside the next-gen 
 area.
  
  Gameplay: The best part, the gameplay. The game is great and is VERY addicting. If you dont think 
 this game is fun than you must be a GTA fanboy, because this game is a lot more fun that GTA IV, 
 because it actually maintains its level of fun. In GTA IV, you couldnt really do anything, which 
 made it boring after you beat the game.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, just like in all other games. A few voice acting problems though, but 
 the gun sound effects are great and its also funny.
  
  Story: The big difference in Saints Row and GTA is that Saints Row is actually a story arc, unlike 
 GTA where its diffenent storys every game. You are always a different person. The story in Saints 
 Row matches well with the first. The thing is, the story isnt as good as GTA IV, which is why GTA 
 IV is good, only because of its good story.
  
  
  The Good: The good things about SR2 is that you can throw people 20ft. You also have all the fun 
 gamemodes GTAIV never had, and it has some great guns that are easy to use.
  
  The Bad: The graphics arent that good, but they arent that bad. There is not gibbing.
  
  The 
 only other problem is that its the same city. The city is the same, but you barely reconize it 
 at the beggining. I really do like the way they made it almost the same, but the buildings are 
 nice and redone.
  
  
  So IMO, i think Saints Row needs more credit than Gamespot and other game reviewers are giving 
 it, because it definatly beats GTA IV gameplay wise, which is more important that anything else. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZODIO15
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is a very amazing game with wonderful graphics and beautiful detail added to the scenary. 
 The story mode picks up actually were the first saints row ended with you being thrown off the 
 boat. You can create your own guy just like the first one but this time around with more detail 
 and cuztimzation options like cribs, clothes, cars. The characters from the first saints the main 
 ones are the same but they are added detail of older and deifferent attitudes. The activites in 
 this game are amazing like car surfing, racing of course is always a fun one, gambling, insurance 
 fraud etc.... Anybody who likes rolepalying, crime, adventure, shooting should pick this game up. 
 On to the multiplayer modes the greatest one out of all them would need to be strong arm you can 
 cause mayhem to the city to get money, steal, and cause complete choas to anyone who meses with 
 you of course the other modes are good as well you have deathmatch, team deathmatch, etc.... This 
 game clearley is all that it should be and all its cracked up to be fun, funny, and ofcourse gangster 
 like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is the followup to the to the acclaimed title of the same name; it continues the tradition 
 of game-play that was introduced in the first game, the Respect meter returns so in order to do 
 a mission or stronghold you must achieve a level of respect. When the game first starts you are 
 introduced to a sophisticated character creation screen where you make your character; after this 
 you fight your way through a tutorial and out of the prison, after springing your buddies you go 
 on a rampage to take back over Stillwater. 
  
  Now one of the best parts of Saints Row have always been all of the diversion that you can participate 
 in outside of the main game; one of the newcomers is a game that involves defending a celebrity 
 from rabid fans that either want to irritate them or attack them, you deal with this by throwing 
 them into the scenery and beating them with objects. There are dozens of other activities that 
 you can participate in that are spread throughout the city for you to enjoy; there is also a bonus 
 mission that takes place at the Stillwater Police Department that ties into the end of the previous 
 game.
  
  There is also the extremely satisfying game called Dead Uprising which uses the game engine to 
 pit you against wave after wave of zombie with limited weapons; you and a team of other survivors 
 are forced to fight them off with extremely satisfying results, the game can be played in coop 
 in order for twice the fun.
  
  All in all I recommend that anyone who enjoyed the original Saints Row or any of the Grand Theft 
 Auto games should at least give Saints Row 2 a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmrfud
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  They compared this to Grand Theft Auto IV so I was excited to play it boy were they wrong. Driving 
 the car that turns on a dime and never skids out makes that part of the game very bad, controls 
 are not that great either. How can I explain driving, it doesn't matter how fast your going just 
 turn and the car or truck goes that way like it was strapped to a tree, I'm still walking around 
 in my jail uniform because every cloths shop I go in to all I can buy is a hat. 
  
  Running is a joke, when I picked my character I picked an athletic woman who can't seem to run 
 more than 20 feet without being out of breath. 
  
  The graphics are probably one of the worst I've seen on the PS3, I've had PS1 games with better 
 graphics than that. I need to be careful of what I buy now, this should have defiantly been a renter 
 first.
  
  
  
  
  Please tell me this game gets better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Griffin707
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 1 was really the first game i played that rivaled GTA in the sandbox style game play. 
 It was clever, fun, had a pretty good story and some entertaining side missions. With all that being 
 said The GTA series has blown past The Row and left it in its dust. This game is the exact same 
 game as the first one, True it has a new story but the same city and same game play. You spend 
 90% of the time just shooting random rival gang members and taking over their turf, that's it really. 
 I played this for about 6 hours straight and that is all i did. You can break away from the main 
 story mode and try out the side missions which are mostly the same games as in SR1, apart from 
 the rip off of GTA with stunt jumps and the new septic tank missions where you just drive around 
 town spraying shi* all over the walls of buildings and cop cars. Which brings me to the point that 
 this game is aimed at kids. It is just mindless violence and potty humor put out for young kids 
 to play. I am so glad that i rented this first and didn't waste my money on it cause i would be 
 kicking myself all the way back to Gamestop to return it. RENT IT FIRST if you must play it otherwise 
 miss it completely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b09boy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  A GTA where you can create your own gang? Customize your own hideout? Create your own character? 
 Sounds too good to be true. And it is.
  
  Saint's Row 2 had plenty of ideas going for it, but poor execution. Let's start from the top.
 
  
  Graphics: Games from last gen look better than this. There's really no excuse here, the game looks 
 like crap. Textures are bland, hair is plastic and shiny, models are boxy, pop-in is terrible yet 
 still the framerate bogs down at points. There is nothing redeeming here.
  
  Sound: Alright. Radio stations are forgettable and, I find, more often annoying than worth listening 
 to. Voices are decent. Guns sound good for the most part. Overall, pretty average.
  
  Gameplay: The meat an' taters of just about any game. And here's where things really bog down. 
 There is so much to do in this game, but it's all so poorly done. It's like they came up with so 
 many good ideas, but failed to polish any of it. But let's start at the beginning.
  
  On-foot controls are reminiscent of last gen GTA. You run, you shoot, you might hit a few people 
 with some melee weapon for some strange reason (guns are available almost from the very start) . 
 There is no cover system to speak of. You can zoom in to shoot, but this proves nearly useless 
 with your character's look speed. Simply put, this game has learned nothing from the plethora of 
 good shooters to come out in the last five years. The AI is dumb, sometimes taking a hostage, mostly 
 charging right for you guns blazing.
  
  Driving controls aren't much better. While cruise control is a nice feature, it's implementation 
 is basically due to poor button layout. Other than that, cars feel weightless. They all turn on 
 a dime, they jump easily and they don't come back down so easily. Added, hit detection is crap. 
 Often you'll find yourself thinking you should be scraping against an obstacle only to find yourself 
 stopped dead.
  
  Then there's the various modes of play. Namely the story mode and the various activities you can 
 participate in for bonuses and respect - a little something you need to unlock more story missions. 
 Story mode consists of a bunch of go there, kill that missions. Normally I wouldn't mind, but I 
 find that even GTA IV had more variety in it's story and that game practically defined 'go there, 
 kill that' in sandbox. Activities are what provides the variety. If only the gameplay was good 
 enough. While a lot of these are good in theory, in practice they are more annoying than anything. 
 For instance, Crowd Control has you protecting a VIP from a hostile crowd with your fists. If only 
 melee was fun. It doesn't help that once crowds start using machine guns (a somewhat random late 
 occurrence in higher levels of the activity) you're pretty much screwed - you don't bring guns 
 into the activity, you have to pick them up and these things wear down the VIP too fast to do anything. 
 Or how about Drug Trafficking where you ride passenger protecting a drug dealer while they make 
 their stops. Looks great and starts up well enough, but you may quickly ask your character why 
 they must keep sitting idly, having to take a precious second to turn around so they might aim 
 their shot every time you give them a moment's rest instead of constantly aiming where you yourself 
 are. Even the famed flaming ATV is hampered by poor vehicle control and hit detection.
  
  It's petty things like this which make this a quantity over quality game. Still, there is plenty 
 to do and lots to explore. You'll often find yourself rewarded for being curious.
  
  Customization: Figured I'd make a section for this seeing as how most people probably bought the 
 game for this. Customization is good. Better than that of most games. You can create virtually 
 anyone you want and have them ride whatever vehicle you want. But there are still obvious downfalls.
 
  
  First thing males might notice is the lack of good voices. British, ghetto and hispanic. There 
 is no every-man voice. You're either a poor sop from the bad part of town or a foreigner. I don't 
 know what they were thinking, but the devs somehow forgot to include a voice to fit around 70% 
 of the people who bought this game.
  
  Then there's the glove glitch. Namely if you wanted the hitman type in a suit and gloves oyu're 
 gonna have to forgo either the shirt and tie or the gloves because gloves don't appear while the 
 shirt's on. Other little things stick out as well, such as no shirt with rolled-up sleeves or with 
 a vest automatically over it. So you can't put a trench coat over your suit.
  
  Then you get into crib and gang customization. These sound good on paper, but are meh in practice. 
 In cribs you have a few choices in what to buy which basically means do you want a dirt hole, a 
 clean place or a sex house. Gang customization is limited to a few looks. The default ones are 
 basically a bunch of different versions of gangsta with ninja suits and bodyguard outfits being 
 added in later. Picking cars is nice, but you can't choose the color. Normally I wouldn't care 
 all that much, but bright purple really is not my style at all.
  
  Car customization, on the other hand, is pretty good. Basic vehicle upgrades plus plenty of different 
 cosmetic looks. There's little to complain of here.
  
  Story: You're a former big-time gangster reclaiming their territory. Simple, easy and little in 
 the way of interest. I never once found the need to continue the story to see what happens next. 
 It serves the need to explain the mayhem you cause, but little else.
  
  Other: I wouldn't be able to go through this review without mentioning glitches. These little ****ers 
 are everywhere. Bodies sticking to cars, cars and people disappearing before your eyes, sounds 
 turning off temporarily, getting stuck on objects, hell even frequent game freezes. This game needed 
 a lot more polish.
  
  Overall a decent game, but too little polish, a number of glaring omissions, the relative shortness 
 of the story and the existence of GTA IV make this a rental at best. Quality is greater than quantity. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroninetyseven
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Ya know, a whole lot of people compare Grand Theft Auto IV to Saints Row 2 and I don't really understand 
 why. If anything, Saints Row 2 should be compared more to GTA San Andreas. Yes, GTA IV had very 
 pretty graffics and it was definately eye candy. But feature wise, the game sucked. Saints Row 
 2 brings back all of the phenominal features Rockstar forgot to put in GTA IV and adds even more 
 to the table. Now with the ability to rip up signs, trash cans, fire hydrants, and more from the 
 ground and beat people to death with them. You also get to fly planes, helicopters, UFO's, sewage 
 trucks, combines, jet skis, and just about ANYTHING else you could possibly think of. You can join 
 illegal fight clubs, streak in public, car surf, pose as a cop in your own reality TV show, and 
 SO much more. I honestly have NEVER played a game as fun as Saints Row 2, and that comes from a 
 guy who's been playing video games since the mid 80's. Don't listen to Gamespot's review. They 
 gave GTA IV a perfect 10 and that game's replay value was absolute garbage! I couldn't even get 
 past the 5th mission before I wanted to sell it! Trust me, PICK UP SAINTS ROW 2! You'll definately 
 be glad you did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0m1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, pure genius. I've been playing and broadcasting this game for 10 days, since 
 I got my reviewers copy. And its been one of the most satisfying game-experiences I've had. Its 
 a lot of fun, both story-wise and gameplay-wise. Theres tons of things to do, and you can do them 
 all with a friend. Activities are a blast, missions get sort of repetitive at times, but stays 
 extreme and fun all the way through. I could spend 12-hours-a-day playing this game, without getting 
 sick of it. Theres just so much things to see. 
  If I were to compare this game to GTA IV, I would say that GTA IV is a more gritty, serious game, 
 but this on the other hand is more fun and a lot more awesome. 
  The only things I'd like to stress is the graphical issues, and some minor bugs (keep in mind, 
 I haven't tried the multiplayer yet) .
  There are some bugs, atleast in the reviewers copy, but they are mostly just fun, some of which 
 have you sitting back laughing your brains out. The graphics though could have been better, but 
 still the game is fun, and it doesn't really ruin the gameplay.
  
  I haven't really tried the first Saints Row that much, but I don't need to. This game is standalone 
 one of the best games I've played in a long time, and I recommend you all to check it out!
  
  This game could only be characterized as Awesome, Fun and Amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoomeye
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love 
 this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this 
 game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game 
 its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I 
 love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love 
 this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this 
 game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game 
 its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I 
 love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love 
 this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this 
 game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game 
 its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I 
 love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love 
 this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! I love this game its amazing!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMayor88
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is this is a good game BUT i feel as if i bought saints row 1. they say a whole new 
 city but i see some of the same landscapes and SR1. in the end i feel ripped off when i can go 
 get this for 30 bucks. Worst of all they took the greatest features (pistol whipping and combat) 
 that everyone loved and thought they can do better by taking out the rag doll physics and having 
 stupid actions like kicking in the nuts with pistols and clotheslining with the shotgun. WIth combat 
 you have combos thats too easy to do. shoulda stayed with the rag doll on both of them, now those 
 features are very lackluster. the co op can be fun to spice things up because you can easily get 
 into trouble. overall the only thing thats changed is the nuber on the box and its no better than 
 the first one. Im taking it back. period 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjoyner629
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Throwing people 20 feet may not be realistic, but it definately opens up some of the most fun you 
 can have on a video game. This game would be reviewed higher by all gamer sources if it came out 
 before GTAIV. Never-the-less, this game packs in some things that GTAIV lacked. Co-op online play 
 stands out the most here along with an imense character customization mode. In the character customization, 
 you can choose from every type of thugged out walk there is, and thats just a tip of the iceberge. 
 Multiplayer online needs to be less hectic and offer more variation, but its still fun to play 
 when you're not doing single and co-op missions. I wouldn't be surprised if they release more multiplayer 
 game modes in future downloads, but this shouldn't be a distraction from a truly great game. For 
 me, it was too easy on the normal setting, so experienced players may want to crank up the difficulty 
 level as the AI on normal basically kills itself. This game brings the crazy hard-core action back 
 to the drama with less realism, but more hilarious fun than any sandbox game you can play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven449
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe i am doing this, but i am forced to write a bad review for Saints Row 2. Six months 
 ago i would never had thought it possible.
  
  Saints Row 1 was the perfect combination of great graphics, good gun play, driving physics, and 
 fun.
  
  I guess too much of a good thing is bad after all, because most of that is in the trashcan for 
 this edition of the series.
  
  If you are like me and enjoy cruising that shiny new car around town, and feeling like the car 
 actually handles anything like like a real car, you can forget that right now. 
  
  Every car in the game drives like a Indy Car with glue on the tires. And due to the last generation 
 graphics the game moves so fast you will miss every corner you tried to make, unless you use the 
 super handbrake that whips your 90 degrees in a fraction of a second. 
  
  But if you like playing open world driving/action games devoid of any driving realism whatsoever, 
 essentially a arcade game, then read on.
  
  The Good
  
  1. Still the great story we come to expect from Saint Row
  2. Lots of zany new ways to terrorize 
 civilians
  3. Throwing people is hilarious 
  
  The Bad
  
  1. Graphics one or two generation's behind the curve
  2. Zero physics on any of the driving
  
 3. Enemies stand around and wait for you to shoot them
  4. No weapon lock on, no cover system, no tactics needed
  5. Collision detection buggy at best
 
  6. Lackluster explosion galore
  7. The non stop mayhem at lightning speed gets old really fast.
  
  While the goal to be the 
 most zany game on the planet was a good one, i think they went way, way to far. There needs to 
 be a balance of realism and fantasy or either by themselves get old quickly. 
  
  Everything in the games leads me to believe that the game was either meant to be pale shadow of 
 it's former self, or the designers just simply ran out of time.
  
  If you are eager for a few hours of zany, non stop action devoid of any shred of realism at all, 
 then you will enjoy this game. For the rest, i say give it a rental first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Motza22
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 1 felt like a cheap rip-off of the GTA series, but I still thought it was fun and played 
 through to the end. Then GTA4 came out and I lost almost all appreciation for Saints Row.
  
  I bought the game yesterday, mainly out of boredom, and I haven't been able to put it down 
 since. Everything that I wish GTA4 would have included, is in Saints Row 2.
  
  I've seen a lot of negative reviews complaining about the realism and graphics of the game. You 
 guys have to realize that it's a game; it's supposed to be more fun than it is realistic. Besides, 
 realism kinda went out the door when we started firing AK-47s in the streets.
  
  As for the graphics, I'll admit they are mediocre at times, but they are never bad enough to distract 
 you from the game itself.
  
  Saints Row 2 resembles the GTA games, but there are many, many differences that make you feel like 
 you're playing a sandbox game for the first time. I was absolutely amazed with how good this game 
 turned out.
  
  Anyone who liked any of the GTA games or Saints Row 1, should definitely pick up a copy of this 
 game. It's more than worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a336061
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Everything seems worse than the first one, and i've had multiple people agree with me for both 
 the xbox and ps3 version. driving physics are garbage, everything looks the same, and they really 
 skimped on the graphics. After playing GTA4, this game is a joke, and as many people would like 
 to say that they weren't going for what GTA4 did, then you're lying. the video review claimed that 
 besides the open world, stealing cars and missions, this is different from GTA4. it's not in the 
 sense that it doesn't want to be, i feel as though THQ forgot what they were doing along the way. 
 whatever they were trying for they failed and badly... i'm starting to give up on Gamespot's reviews, 
 maybe they should post the point of view for someone that is for and against the game. 
  
  the animations are pathetic, everyone somehow thinks it's cool to throw someone 20 feet in the 
 air by default... if your character injected something first, then maybe i'd agree, but just random 
 super powers make no sense. i'm not asking for excessive realism, because not even GTA4 had that, 
 but they added things to the game that gave it balance, throwing a 250lb man 25 feet in the air... 
 sorry, no balance.
  
  it's 2008 and if a company won't take the time to do a simple animation between jogging and sprinting, 
 then they should lose the race. Drakes Fortune, GTA4, even the new mario for Wii has animations 
 that this game missed. Bleh, i give up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moester10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  This is a game that is purely about fun. Graphics and the AI are just passable, but lets be honest, 
 this game is all about having a good time. This game is the ANTI-GTA IV for me. I thought that 
 GTA IV had a great story and amazing graphics... but lacked a lot of fun factor. This game has a 
 rather simplistic story, outdated graphics, but is it ever fun to play. I really liked the customization 
 aspects and so far it looks like a game that I'll be able to go back to over and over again. 
 
  
  The story of this game is like a B movie that is so bad its good. Many of the story aspects are 
 outrageous and unbelievable, but that's what makes it so compelling. You can't have the suspension 
 of disbelief which is what makes this game so great. Were you to feel for these characters, you 
 would hate their nihilistic little souls... but since you know its all kitsch and over the top drama 
 you can let go and just have fun with it. That was my problem with GTA IV they made the character 
 so real that it was easy to loathe him. In this case, your character and the world around him are 
 likable because they're so unreal. 
  
  If you can look past over the flaws you'll have a superior game out of it. There is nothing really 
 new, but nothing bad. Not a fantastic game, but a very good one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackmoses22
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the best games of 08 it was alot better then the first one and in my personally 
 opinion i think that it better then GTA4 i love gta and 4 was good not what we wanted it to be 
 but still good but this game is awesome probably the second best after gow2 on the 7th lol but 
 it is so much you can do on here and thren its so much more you come complete with gta4 it doesnt 
 have half the stuff that this game got. Example when i bought the game on my lunch break i took 
 it home and i played it in front of my little brother wheir both fans of gta and i told him yo 
 thiws iws gonna e better then gta4 and he said no gta4 is a classic and ok waych so he watch me 
 play for about a half an hour and then i went back to work so he played it for the last couple 
 of hours on my shift lmao and when i came home from work the look on his face was priceless i was 
 sooo excited he was saying u can do so much and he was talking so fast it was a very funny moment! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nimbuster90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  The graphics are not as good as GTA4, but when it comes to games, I want gameplay first. When I 
 can blow up countless cars, send a traincar flying off the tracks and speed 150+ mph down the freeway 
 blowing stuff up with satchel charges and pipe bombs, and NO framerate drop, that's some great 
 entertainment. GTA4 dropped its framerate by blowing up 1 or 2 cars... sad.
  
  The story is better than the first, the cutscenes are much more polished and exciting (in most 
 cases) , and there are so many activities to do. I also love how everything was thought out. Accomplishments 
 and unlockables are tracked, practically anything can be used as weapons, the menus and actions 
 are very responsive, etc. You name it, this game is the best sandbox game ever.
  
  The only bad thing so far: it tends to freeze every few hours. Kind of annoying, but even that 
 doesn't keep me from playing. We need breaks though, right? lol, anyways, hopefully Volition can 
 fix that with a patch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zinnick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  I was a fan of the first saints row and i was let down by GTA4.... im still lost as to why GTA4 
 got a 10 out of 10 when it was nowhere near a 10 game...... GTA san andreas was a 10..... and saints 
 row 2 is like GTA san andreas except on next gen.
  
  This game is wicked.... The side missions are amazing... my faves are the fight club and of course 
 mayhem, i know mayhen was in the first one but its still really fun.... bodygaurd mini games are 
 great.... Hell they are all great..... You can go strecking in this game and flash ppl.... what more 
 can you want, though i do not agree with gamespot on the zombie uprising is awesome..... its alright 
 but by far not at all awesome.... and im a zombie fan.
  
  The story picks up 5 years after the original game.... i havent played all the way through the game 
 but i did play all day today and its pretty damn good, the one complaint i had about satints row 
 one was the lack of diolouge for the main carchter but that is not a problem at all in the 2nd 
 one. 
  
  The vehicles are everything you could every think of, more cars, trucks and vans than i can list 
 and there are speed boats, planes, choppers........ And if you are a gta san andreas fan like me 
 and you were let down by gta4, they have parachutes in this one.
  
  Bottom line is the side missions are more fun than gta4 and there is way more to do in saints row 
 2..... i was 40% done gta in one day i have been plaing saints row for over 12 hours and im only 
 25%... the mini games are fun, story line is good.
  
  If i had to pick between gta 4 and saints row 2........ The row wins hands down..... i could go on 
 and on about this game but im gonna shut up and go play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: navyguy21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Like many of you, i had my doubts about this game. Saints Row 1 was fun, but way too glitchy. It 
 seemed as if GTA IV left us wanting more with the sudden move to realism. And whats up with friends 
 calling every 5 minutes right?? Well, saints row 2 is here to fix that!! Fixing 95% if the bugs 
 from the first game, Volition has created a open world game that can hold its own against GTA. 
 Im going to make ths short, this is Vice City and San Andreas all rolled into one well made next-gen 
 package!! So much to see, so much to do!! Im just going to close with this....... Flaming four wheeler 
 and Zombie Uprising  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrIMm23
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This is Grand Theft Auto 4 but with: Taking anyone and using them as a human sheild or just throw 
 them off a bridge, chainsaws, swords, shocking pads, a cool zombie video game in your crib, character 
 customization, a wide variety of character personalities and funny taunts. The physics are amazing 
 too like GTA4. The improvements that I have noticed from the first one was: The graphics, the ability 
 to fly helicopters and planes and motorcycles and everything that GTA4 does not offer. Now Im not 
 saying this is better then GTA4 (considering that I dont have it but I played it long enough to 
 know alot of stuff about it) but this is one awesome free roamer! Did I mention that this game 
 has alot of humor in it, its like all over the place! So I basically recommend this to any free 
 roamer fan, anyone who likes GTA4 and for people who just like popular games, so what Im saying 
 here is that this is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda024
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Its GTA/SA with better graphics, better physics, awsome customization, better activity's then the 
 original SR, and about all the other stuff gta4 left out.
  
  Some cool aspects I like so far is the option to customize your gangs apparel. Tons more upgrade 
 options for your cars AND bikes. toon models look more fleshed out.
  
  Only thing I didnt like to much was that the driving mech are way more arcadish then the original 
 SR, I mean you can do a 90deg turn without applying the breaks. Riding bikes are real stiff. But 
 its still fun.
  
  The ZOMBIE game is FREAKIn AWSOME!!!!!!!!!
  
  the rest is to fill in for the min letter count.
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: halokillerps205
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I don't want to spend this whole review compating it to GTA IV, so I will just say it is better 
 than GTA.
  
  Saints row 2 starts with a prison break out, where you are able to "construct" your appearance. 
 There may not be a whole lot to choose from, but it gets the job done. The graphics are perfect, 
 some minor problems in the cut scenes, but gameplay is great. My favortite is how well the cars 
 handle. The sound is probably Saint Rows biggest achievment, its explosive. You can purchase songs 
 from music stores and put them on a playlist for listening pleasure.
  
  The AI, might not be entirely smart at times, but a good sacrifice for keeping the fun in the game, 
 or as gamespot put it, the "immaturity". This is the funnest game I have played a long time, and 
 I'm glad to know sandbox games can still have that fun factor. Do not rent this game, BUY IT! You 
 will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballplayer4203
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything the first one was. Great fun and great customization. The missions repeat 
 sometimes but in what game don't the missions repeat. Haven't gotten too far in the story but so 
 far it is a solid story line. The only gripe i have with this game is that they took away the create 
 a gang in the multiplayer which is what separated the original from all the other games. Now we 
 just have the typical multiplayer games. Overall its fun and worth the money I will miss the create 
 a gang though. I need one hundred words I need one hundred words I need one hundred words I need 
 one hundred words I need one hundred words I need one hundred words I need one hundred words I 
 need one hundred words I need one hundred words I need one hundred words I need one hundred words 
 I need one hundred words I need one hundred words I need one hundred words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmartinetti
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Being a Saints Row fan I had a lot of hopes on the sequel. So it was nice to see the game turn 
 out as run as it is EVEN WITH, the larger than normal amount of bugs that I am finding in the game 
 (MASSIVE LOD / pop up problems, Collision issues, and the game flat lined on my once) I am still 
 having a blast.
  
  The ability to create a custom character as the main character adds so much to wanting to play 
 the game now. I have a guy that a lot like me now in the game causing mayhem... AWESOME.
  
  The story is funny and yet violent as all hell, I care about everyone in my gang that I come in 
 contact with. and I care about the actual story and how it unfolds. Thank god THQ hired top tier 
 talent to do VO, it pays off so well with pacing and connection with the characters... which we 
 need more of in games since graphically.... we have caught up enough. 
  
  My only gripe is the length of the game. A game of this size should have HOURS of story (like fallout 
 3 does) I beat the game in 8 hours. That's is usually the same length it takes me to beat an FPS 
 (read: Linear-ish gameplay) . 
  And that's the problem.... I wanted to continue, I wanted more to do and see and be a part of. Now 
 when I go into the world all I can do is replay the side missions (yawn) and admire my vast collection 
 of custom cars... oh yeahhhh... I have every car in the game worth having in triplicates .... I dunno 
 why.
  
  there are problems however. First there is a seriously high amount of bugs in the game. Oddly enough 
 when I first started playing the game I only noticed pop up and LOD issues, like when I was driving 
 or flying. but later on as the missions advanced I noticed more. Usually when multiple things are 
 going on in the game world I would get my slow down, which I honestly cannot fault I mean there 
 is a lot of stuff going on here and the CPU can only do so much so fast on the 360.... its the other 
 bugs that while not annoying to me... may piss off the casual gamer just looking for some more GTA 
 like fun.
  
  The collision is a big thing in the lower part of the island by the airport. I was in a fight with 
 the brotherhood and while running and gunning I got caught on an invisible wall... these walls actually 
 make their ways into a lot of the streets in Saints Row 2. Many times in the frat district, by 
 the airport and in the center of the city I hit walls that were invisible (collision brushes in 
 the map) that were either never spotted or fixed before it shipped. Again a world this big... maybe 
 I can see one of two slipping by.
  
  Then there was the crash, I think (hope) this was more my xbox overheating than the game. but one 
 can never know. my box is on a shelf with PLENTY of open space as is the adapter so air is not 
 a problem. The game stopped working (literally) when I was in the mission laundering money. I was 
 using the second character I created and when I got a block away from the destination, the dealer 
 stopped driving and the car just sat there. I couldn't get out or drive all I could do is shoot. 
 SO I just stood there shooting Ronin guys, until I reset the game. That mission, which basically 
 means almost all the Ronin missions..... are still open on my second character as I cannot finish 
 the game. 
  
  other than that. the game is a riot an absolute blast and I think anyone who even liked GTA will 
 love this game.
  Round of applause to Volition and THQ... well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganjasmugglin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Wow! This game really is awesome. I just rented it last night and for just playing it for about 
 ten hours I have only completed the first mission! There are sooo many little things you can do 
 in this game like, tow a car, tag a wall, piss off gangs, modify any car (extensive) , fly ANYTHING!, 
 smoke a cigar? (blunt?) And iam still only done with the first mission. Theres alot more to do! 
 This game still also has great graphics too. Just not as detailed in the outside buildings. But, 
 you can go into a ton of buildings and you can regain territory thats not even yours. My favorite 
 part about this game has to be how well you can customize a car. The rims are the most ridiculous 
 part on the car. You can have like 22in spinners on a honda civic! You can also lower and raise 
 the car to your liking. Oh and did I mention that they have monster trucks too! Also the weapon 
 selection is very extensive too. All in all iam very impressed with this game and am very excited 
 that I bought it. No more GTA for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 2:24 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is much better then preview one but seek the same type of game but in all the ways 
 better. The visuals are superb, the soundtrack is very good. The gameplay is simple but still extremely 
 fun, the story this time is much more nice then the preview game. And the new co-op gameplay (especially 
 with the ninjas) are very fun too. But the game is very brutal ( more than GTA i should say) not 
 a problem if you are old age , but its definitely the kind of game you can't play in front a kid 
 or let one play. At the end in my opinion saints row franchise have a great potential but can't 
 beat GTA, YET. Of course there are a lot of people who think Saints row 2 is one way better than 
 GTA IV , i don't blame then its a great game. I would recommend rent a game first but go ahead 
 and buy it first instead. Btw not a bad review from Gamespot but not that good that used to be.
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
