-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Samurai Warriors 2 Empires
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/samuraiwarriors2empires/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The strategy elements of the empires mode are well designed and fun.
 Solid create-an-officer mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is as bland and uninteresting as ever.
 Not many features outside of the empires mode.
 Graphics and audio are stuck in the Stone Age.
 Repetitive and grating voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.5, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 299 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Developer: Omega Force
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Feb 27, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Once again, the strategy elements of the empires mode do a lot to make up for the mundanity of the 
 aging Warriors combat system, but it's not quite enough. 

  Stop us if you've heard this one before. Once again those pesky ancient samurais are up to their 
 usual warring shenanigans, and it's up to you to relive their past battles through a lot of completely 
 boring combat and annoyingly acted cutscenes. Yep, it's another Samurai Warriors game from Koei. 
 If you're out of the loop as to what this series, or any other of Koei's Warriors games, is about, 
 just stop reading and know that you're not missing a whole heck of a lot. If you're a longtime 
 fan of this series, or at least familiar with it, just know that Samurai Warriors 2: Empires does 
 for the Samurai series what the Empires games did for the Dynasty Warriors games. It adds a whole 
 strategy element to the otherwise nursing-home-ready gameplay, which actually makes it kind of 
 fun to play. It doesn't stop the endlessly stupid button mashing from wearing on your nerves after 
 a couple of hours, but it's certainly a much better option than Samurai Warriors 2 was sans the 
 strategy elements.  

          This is the part of Samurai Warriors 2: Empires that's actually pretty fun.     

  Empires 
 once again provides you with a whole myriad of Sengoku-era samurais to play with, as well as a 
 number of historic battles to play through. Of course, the Koei take on ancient Japan is a lot 
 like its take on ancient China, so historical accuracy exists in only the loosest of senses, and 
 rather many of these warriors and warlords are fully anime-d caricatures that spout a lot of goofy 
 lines and fight with ridiculously large weapons. The twist with Empires is that unlike in Samurai 
 Warriors 2, which just let you pick a specific warrior and play through a lame story mode filled 
 with the aforementioned terrible dialogue and lame combat, here you're presented with a series 
 of scenarios that are all about unifying Japan. Some task you with uniting specific regions, whereas 
 others revolve around uniting the entire country under one warlord's banner. In all of these scenarios, 
 various warlords control individual fiefs throughout the land. To bring glorious unification to 
 Japan, you'll need to force your way into control of every individual fief.  

  The way in which you do this isn't going to be altogether unfamiliar for those who know Koei's 
 Warriors games. When you choose to invade another's territory, you're dropped onto a rather bland-looking 
 battlefield, complete with some basic-looking bases to capture and tons and tons of same-looking 
 grunt soldiers who are better at standing around and looking dopey than they are at killing anything. 
 Enemy officers and generals are much better at attacking, but even they can still be easily bested 
 if you just hammer on the same couple of combos again and again. Nothing of any significance has 
 been done to the combat system to make it more fun than it's been in recent years, and odds are, 
 this system wore out its welcome for you long before this game's arrival.  

  It's good, then, that there's a bit more to the empires mode overall than just fighting dudes. 
 The strategy element comes from what happens when you're not on the battlefield. The main empires 
 menu is a map of Japan with a variety of options to play with before you can enter a battle. These 
 count as turns (which take up a full season of an individual year) , and on each turn, you can either 
 get advice from your various officers, make a decree all on your own, or delegate what you do on 
 that turn to an officer. What are you decreeing or delegating? Essentially, the game provides you 
 with a number of "policies." These policies are cards that designate actions. They can range from 
 hiring new officers away from other warlords to mining in gold-enriched regions for more cash to 
 upping the troop counts for individual officers to buying tactics and formations that can be used 
 on the battlefield. You earn gold via taxes from the peasants in your controlled fiefs, and you 
 spend that gold on these policies.  

  Tactics and formations are individual policy cards that give you specific advantages when in battle. 
 Formations upgrade your attack, defense, or speed abilities, and there are varying degrees of effectiveness 
 for each. If you use a first-tier speed-based formation but your opponent is using a second-tier 
 attack-based formation, the effects of your formation will immediately wear off, and you'll be 
 at a disadvantage. Tactics are much more specific. Some let you hire ninjas to accompany you in 
 battle, while others lower the movement speed or morale of enemy soldiers. There's lots of variety 
 to these tactics, and there are many instances where they can be the difference between victory 
 and defeat.  

  Messing around with all these various policies and shuffling around your officers and their troops 
 to create the most beneficial battle scenarios possible is pretty much what makes empires mode 
 any fun at all. The game is effectively hamstrung by the crushingly dull combat, but the strategy 
 of the mode adds a bit of context to the mindless battles, which makes them tolerable. There's 
 not a whole lot to the game beyond the empires mode, unfortunately. There's a free mode where you 
 can just pick a battle and a warrior and have at it free of any context, as well as a create-an-officer 
 mode that is exactly what it sounds like. You and a friend can play in any battle cooperatively, 
 though it's only split-screen play and there's no competitive multiplayer to be had. Granted, it's 
 not like the combat system would make for particularly engaging multiplayer battles, but it's disappointing 
 all the same. Lastly, if you go with the 360 version of the game, there are 17 achievements to 
 be earned. They're almost exclusively easy to earn if you just play through the normal course of 
 the game.  

          This part... well, not so much.     

  What's perhaps most disappointing about Empires is that the series hasn't evolved into a full-fledged 
 Xbox 360 game yet. This is still a cheaply made port of the PlayStation 2 game, complete with all 
 the awful environmental textures, recycled bad guys, and cheap-looking animations. In HD resolution, 
 the main warriors and officers look a bit snazzier, but that's really the extent of it. As for 
 the PS2 game, it looks altogether the same as every other Warriors game has for the last couple 
 of years, with the same occasional frame-rate troubles and all.  

  On its own merits, Samurai Warriors 2: Empires is yet another  
 update, simply because of the engaging strategy elements. But it's not enough this time around 
 to make it a qualifiedly good game, and it's never going to be again until Koei snaps the series 
 out of its current rut.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vietboi89
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Alright story goes first
  Tekken Meets Animal Crossing in this revolutionary video game of strategy and tactics and hardcore 
 epicness with ur favorite little Hello Kitty character MUMBO!!! and how do the Vampires fit into 
 all this? THEY DONT!!! but that still doesnt stop Koei from making another piece of crap video 
 game.
  
  Alright folks heres how it rolls Samurai Warriors meets Strategy (somewhat) in this really derivative 
 video game/ sucky disk that contains data compatible with the xbox 360. Fortunately for us this 
 game isnt half bad hence the 6.5 rating. In reality this game meets the standard of being an ok 
 game but NOT a good game but since im a sucker for these Empires stuff i bought it and played it 
 anyway, though fortunate for me i paid around 20 bucks for a brand new copy so WOOHOO!!! but to 
 be sold at retail price for 40$ HELL NO!! Seriously who does Koei think they're kidding? nobody 
 will be happy with a last gen game sold for 40$ especially an extension of a game i mean seriously 
 how bout 20$ for it? seems like a reasonable price to pay for a game that isnt exactly new. but 
 if ur reading this u probably thinking "hah SAMURAI WARRIORS RUUUULLLLEEEZZZ I LOVE LU BE SUPER 
 SMASH BROTHERS SUCKS WTH IS NO MORE HEROES I am a warrior of the three kingdoms" i would reply 
 with a big kick to ur face. but lets get on to some real issues
  
  alright Graphics thats always important: THIS GAME SUCKS WITH GRAPHICS
  yea so u c the ps2, yea 
 thats what it is and no im not talking about games on the ps2 that actually had some decent visual 
 im talking about wth this game looks like bland crap. Seriously do i need to say it again "XBOX 
 360" not "XBOX" not "XBOX 180" not "ATARI" no i've said "XBOX 360" this means i dont expect a game 
 that looks like a piece of crap. Yea i no what u Koei lovers are gonna say "gameplay over graphics" 
 "i love hack and slash" "I dont have people that love me" and i say "HAH u lose cause the game 
 is boring and reptitive and everyone loves me (i just dont love them bak) ." so folks there really 
 is no excuse for the really disgusting graphics that are just appalling i mean do some with the 
 technology u graphic designers of the Koei i mean wth. ok so we no they failed in the graphics 
 department
  Sound: Sounds like crap
  yea we've been there "I have claimed this base" "this base is ours" "lookey me i no how to press 
 the atk button and the d pad" yes but now ull be hearing it about 30 times so try not to smash 
 ur head on the windows since they can break, maybe the stove or a brick? so they failed in the 
 audio department also but they allow u to play watever soundtrack u want for a battle so thats 
 a plus but not a full plus so we'll just call it a "/" instead since its no real achievement for 
 them to use the reserve 75% of the disk space still left on the goddamn game.
  Gameplay: Well u did it the last 10 times and ull do it again, this time there might actually be 
 a point to all that thumb exercise. You see u have to do some conquering so u got this map that 
 is japan that is almost identical to the map of china in the Dynasty Warriors Empires (we're not 
 stupid KOEI just stupid enuff to pay good money for ur product) and u start of with a fief or two 
 or all of them but one and u pik some policies to up ur stats and then when u fill like not looking 
 at a boring screen u press the power button or u can waste ur time and choose to go into battle 
 with someone like the little guy that really didnt want to do anything to u but u still need him 
 to die so u can get this fricking game over with so bang ur in the familiar screen with all those 
 selections and junk so now u just go right to the bottom option and choose to do some tedious gameplay. 
 Alright this seems familiar but wait wat are these little box like things on the map? well my retarded 
 little reader these are wat we call bases and ur supposed take them over with a little something 
 called "press atk and strong atk button until enemy life bar drops to nothing" but wait it looks 
 like my allies are helping me, yes u dumb child the AI isnt as stupid as they were b4 because u 
 can (somewhat) control them. so if there is a base and u dont want to go in alone because u suck 
 in life or because u simply want to see ur people marauder the enemy then dont fret because it 
 is all possible with some magic and the left button on the d-pad but u can also order ur people 
 to atk seperate bases individually so while playing this game u can also take ur attention off 
 of the game since ur allies can be useful somewhat and go on to hunting for 12-13 year old girls 
 on the internet onli to be busted by the fbi but wait getting busted must be put off for a awhile 
 because... wth!?!?!? my guys are dying?!?!?! yes thats right looks like ur still gonna have to 
 babysit but dont fret its not as bad as Dynasty Warriors 6 u just have to hold their hands and 
 pick off some generic and sometimes overpowered turds and there there stupid AI controlled female 
 character i created because im a sick lonely pedophile, everything is all good, now lets go bak 
 to MYSPACE. so yea u can the drift
  
  Over All: its not good, its ok but not good, honestly i enjoyed playing it for the first time but 
 with the horrible dubbing which i forgot to mention but hell u no what its like, i just didnt want 
 to deal with it nemore.
  
  Samurai Warriors 2 Empires get a measly 6.5 for being another generic KOEI failure that could have 
 actually been fun if more of the tactics and strategy and original dubbing was involved and less 
 of the generic done tired Hack and Slash and of course that crappy English dubbing... i think during 
 the dubbing the voice actor playing one of the male characters bit his tongue OFF or has a speed 
 impediment idk. Who wants to punch corny dubbers in the face say "HOOO HAAAA!!!!!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassEfectivator
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I understand how a reviewer might not like a game and might want to rip it apart, but honestly, 
 a lot of stuff this guy said is crap. He was right about nothing but bad bad voice acting and the 
 great Empire mode. Empire mode allows for you to do actually make choices that affect battle in 
 a larger scale, such as placing troops in specific areas and setting up defense, to much more complex 
 things such as allowing or refusing for troops to go home to aid your army, or sacrificing a group 
 of good men to make a dent in a critical area of later battle. It's very deep, and you even have 
 good-bad morale choices to make. Gameplay goes to what gaming actually is, not forcing you to make 
 too many choices, but mixing things up enough to make it somewhat challenging and fun on higher 
 difficulty settings (this guy played on easy most likely, and only finds it fun to fight hundreds 
 of enemies that block and dodge a lot) the AI in this game is a lot smarter than people say, as 
 they will swarm around you and try to defend themselves, attacking when your back is turned to 
 a group of them, and if a officer is in the area, they will change their fighting style to help 
 the officer fight you. The graphics in this game aren't uber beautiful, but if you have been playing 
 games since the N64 era, then graphics hopefully shouldn't inhibit you from purchasing a game. 
 Fret not, the graphics look next gen enough to make you wow when you see a awe-inspiring combo. 
 The voice acting is outright horrible, but the music playing during combat is the right thing for 
 action. There are many characters in the game that have made a return, and some new faces, and 
 of course the usual upgrades (weapons, maps, etc;) . If you could care less about a story and are 
 looking for a game that can keep you coming back for months on end (occasionally) to conquer civilizations 
 and play with tons of characters, then you should have this game right now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek-God
Rating: 2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Well lets get started. Its better than samurai warriors 2, its still bad. The gameplay is repetitive 
 and un-interesting. The graphics are borderline PS2 same as what i said in my review of Samurai 
 warriors 2. One of the worst things about this game is the how its too similair to all the other 
 games in this and the Dynasty warriors series's are. SImply its boring, Oh and way too easy. Id 
 like to add that at this time there is only 7 reviews other than this one. They are all good or 
 at least semi-good. its nice to be different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Like any of Koei's games in the Samurai Warriors or Dynasty Warriors franchises, you 
 play as a japanese warrior placed in a historical time battling the likes of other historical figures 
 (whether fact or fiction) . The storyline is pretty basic, conquer everything that can be conquered, 
 any ally should be charged with respect if respectful, and all enemies should cower in fear at 
 your rise to power. The gameplay itself, to reiterated, is a simple hacking adventure, you'll press 
 the attack, jump, and special (musuo or not) attack to kill hundreds of unworthy A. I. idiots. Now 
 I'd be a lot more compelled to buy Koei's games if they would make the A. I. worth facing, they 
 usually stand around and barely notice you, the only intelligence computer-wise that stands up 
 well enough are the named enemies that are the only ones that actually hurt you. You run around 
 the large area killing anything in your way, until you arrive at a guard point, which you'll then 
 take, and effectively form a string linking your main base to the enemies, so you can kill the 
 enemy captain. That's all you do, over and over again, in every campaign, it's never really different, 
 but I do find it very fun. So to summarize: gameplay is fun, stupid opponents are not.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are considered Xbox or PS2 by my standards, and the only real next-gen thing 
 it does it add more enemies on screen or optimize frame-rate, but neither of the stated are even 
 worth it. Most of the warriors look alike, as well as animations, actions, moves, and special attacks. 
 The grass looks flat, the fences block-like, and everything else just re-used from past games. 
 Koei could really spend some time in the graphics department for this franchise.
  
  Sound: The historic-sounding Japanese music really is one of the selling points to me, since it 
 really does complete the games scenario and feel. As far as speaking goes, most of the captains 
 say the same thing over like Oda Nobunaga, who keeps saying, It's just that simple, every time 
 he captures a guard point. The speaking could be thought-out more, as well as vary more of the 
 re-hashed sounds.
  
  Value: Lots of campaigns to do, Xbox Live compatible (not online, but you can log on and talk to 
 friends I guess) , since it's an Empires games it lets you add a bit of strategy while not being 
 as confusing as Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires, and that's about it. Re-used, tried, and tired, the 
 Koei formula is getting old way too fast, and they should attempt to change that.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Simply put, I love my hack'n slashes of this format. Koei really does making kill 
 400 of the same looking enemies on the same looking maps over and over again fun. How? I do not 
 know. At best, this game is a rental, but it's also budget-priced, so if you have extra cash then 
 buy it, but I can't guarentee you a promising game for too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagon32323
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  If you played any of the old Dynasty Warriors games, you will probably recall one thing. Lu Bu 
 wrecks your life. Fortunately for us, this unbalanced character has been removed to due Japan not 
 being China. Apart from different names, a few new Mouso attacks, and a bunch of tactics, this 
 game fits right in to the series. The achievements are a bit wacky, but nothing a few hours of 
 sitting around pressing A won't help. Unfortunately, when you're out on the battlefield you're 
 most likely going to hear the same annoying catch phrases over and over and over again. I'd recommend 
 renting this game if you're into the beat-em-ups, but it's definitely not worth it's full retail 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamanias
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 20, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I have followed the Dynasty Warriors since birth and when it branched into a different series i 
 decided to try it out. I liked the feel of it and so here we are the second in the series and a 
 spinoff entitled Empires 
  
  Gameplay: Samurai Warriors 2 plays well just like the previous Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors. 
 It is the same formula: the hack and slash formula that is and if you are a fan of this type of 
 genre, then the battles will never grow old. However, if this is not your type of genre, then the 
 battles can get old very quickly.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are not a very strong point. The graphics are presented in HD (480p, 720p, 1080i and 
 1080p) though the models and textures are just plain and simple. On the xbox 360, there is no slowdown 
 no matter how many enemies appear on screen. The musou attacks sometimes can be attractive but 
 overall the graphics are weak and not true 360!
  
  Sounds:
  It sounds great. The music is beautifully composed and it does sound quite good. It has always 
 been a strong point and this game shows it.
  
  Value:
  The xbox 360 lasts a lot longer than the ps2 version because of the achievement system. The standard 
 1000 achievement points are awarded for certain battles and completion of scenarios. There are 
 quite a few scenarios to get through and they can take a long time. Unfortuantely after the 1000 
 acheivement points are earned and the scenarios are completed there is nothing to go back to. I 
 enjoyed this game very much and got it for &pound;28 so it was good value for price. I have enjoyed 
 this game and if you can find this at a bargain price don't be afraid to pick it up. It is a good 
 360 entry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NemaLive
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  Just for the record this is my first foray into this genre of games and i hate to admit it but 
 im addicted, its been a while since a game has gotten all of my attention for such a period of 
 time.
  
  Split screen is a delight my wife cant get enough and i assure you its difficult to get her to 
 play games with me, even though I only stick to the males and my wife sticks with the females theres 
 enough variety between them to want to rank up every char just to see its moves.
  
  The difficulty and learning curve is just right with enough difficulty options to suit most people 
 and as your own skill goes up and when you discover you can unlock more options as you play the 
 game it becomes a driving force. Empire mode is where the game shines, having full control over 
 tactics and how your empire is run is probally the key to this games success without slowing it 
 down with to much micro management.
  
  The fact my wife plays it to rate it even higher with me specially when it gets released @ $69 
 you cant go wrong 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scat-mgduffs
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  this game is great samurai warriors 2 empires sets a new level in stratigy the charicters are fun 
 creating one is better and the story is clever but can seem short if not done on harder mode i 
 would recomend this game but i wouldent start this game on novice i would start it on normal more 
 of a challange. get this game if your a big fan i need to write 200 words so im gona write letters 
 s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d dd d d d d dd d d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazykillajoe
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Koei game I have ever played. The Officer Creation isnt that good since you cant 
 really fully customize your character, you can only pick a model, instead of like Dynasty Warriors 
 5 Empires were you can chose the chest armor, leg armor and etc. The voice over isnt that good ether. 
 But the overall game is just fun. Empires is the best Koei series because of the strategy element, 
 it really makes the game addicting. The battles look and feel amazing. Thw hole time your playing 
 you will keep telling yourself one, one more battle and end up playing for hours. If ur a fan of 
 the series you should definently get this. A Great Buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGreatXL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Say what you will about the Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors series, but I've always found 
 the gameplay quite addictive. You basically choose to control one warrior and kill tons of enemies. 
 Simple enough. But some reviews will make this sound like all you have to do is press one button. 
 Good luck with that. In reality you chain together normal attacks and charge attacks to create 
 powerful combos. All of which help build up your musou gauge, which is basically a powerful move 
 that, depending on the character, will allow you to dispatch huge groups of enemies or will deal 
 mega damage to a single enemy.
  
  Samurai Warriors 2 improved on alot of what was missing in the first game. For one, you have many 
 more unique characters to choose from. This provides variety in the gameplay. It also improved 
 the skill system which is like Dynasty Warriors' items in that it gives you skill boosts and other 
 nice effects. It works alot better than the item system does as the effects of the skills are permanent.
 
  
  Now, all this sounds dandy, but the reason I'm giving this game such a good score is because Empires 
 adds the element of strategy that makes the game even more fun to play than the original. The whole 
 point of the gameplay is that you start out with a single piece of land and through diplomatic 
 or violent means, you take over other peices of land. Depending on the scenario you choose, this 
 could range from just a few warlords controlling all of the land to many different warlords controlling 
 a single piece of land. The AI for these scenarios range from extremely aggressive (where they'll 
 likely attack you alot) to extremely subdued (where they'll hardly ever attack you) . When your 
 land is under attack, you have the option of defending it manually or automatically. If you defend 
 it manually, you'll do it through a battle. If you do it automatically, the computer determines 
 the outcome of the battle for you. This is dangerous in that you might lose the land.
  
  There is also a Create-a-Warrior option. The options for appearance isn't extensive as I would 
 have liked, but you can choose self skills and move sets that will make your warrior unique.
  
  All in all, if you are a fan of the Dynasty Warriors or Samurai Warriors series, you'll really 
 enjoy this game. If you've never played any game in the series, I'd suggest you start with the 
 regular Samurai Warriors 2 game and then play this. That way you'll be less confused to the background 
 story of each character and stage. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
