-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Samurai Warriors 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/sengokumusou2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Sugoroku board game mode makes for an amusing distraction.
 New skills and upgrades system is a little more interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay suffers from the same boring hack-and-slash action with no strategy to tie it together.
 Ugly, bland environments that look even more hideous on the Xbox 360.
 Nonofficer enemies are still dumb as rocks.
 Cheesy voice acting, and no Japanese language track option.
 Online play is a joke.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.4
Critic Score: 5.5, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 555 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Developer: Omega Force
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Sep 19, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Like just about every other sequel in Koei's Warriors franchises, Samurai Warriors 2 offers an overly 
 familiar and ultimately mundane hack-and-slash experience. 

  Koei's Dynasty Warriors franchise, the long-running and once-revered saga of ancient Chinese warriors 
 beating each other with swords, has had a few moments of evolution throughout its lifespan. With 
 the Empires spin-offs, Koei finally managed to give its repetitve hack-and-slash gameplay some 
 context with some legitimately interesting strategy components. Unfortunately, these Empires spin-offs 
 have remained mere diversions from the norm, rather than the full evolution of the series. In fact, 
 in the Samurai Warriors series, Koei's jaunt from ancient China into the world of feudal Japan, 
 there has never been an Empires edition. There was Samurai Warriors, Samurai Warriors: Xtreme Legends, 
 and now Samurai Warriors 2, an entirely predictable follow-up featuring more hacking, slashing, 
 and barely-there battle strategy, with only a couple of ancillary new modes and upgrade systems 
 to make the game warrant a "2" in front of the title. For all intents and purposes, you've already 
 played this game, and even if you've never gotten around to playing any of the Warriors games, 
 the gameplay is so stale that there's not much about Samurai Warriors 2 to inspire interest.  

 
          It's a case of 'second verse, same as the first' in Samurai Warriors 2.     

  Twenty-six different warriors are available to play with in Samurai Warriors 2, though most of 
 them are locked from the beginning and can be unlocked only by playing through the various storylines 
 of the available characters (and with each one you unlock, you get one of the game's achievements 
 in the Xbox 360 version) . If you know this series, you know what you're in store for with the game's 
 storyline. Each character has a several-chapter progression of stages periodically interrupted 
 with melodramatic cutscenes and typically prefaced with pseudo-history lessons explaining the scenario 
 you're about to embark upon. Though Samurai Warriors 2 is, at a base level, rooted in Japanese 
 history, the characterizations and situations take full dramatic license, and the result is a lot 
 of hammy dialogue and disjointed storytelling that does little beyond explaining why you're bothering 
 to hack up all those bad guys.  

  Like the many Warriors games past, the core action of the game revolves around simplistic combos 
 and lots and lots of enemies. You run around a bland-looking battlefield, beat up any enemy soldiers 
 and officers that appear, move to another section of the map, repeat over and over until your attack 
 buttons have been worn down to nubs, and then do it again in another stage. The game tries to throw 
 some more strategic scenarios at you by forcing you to aid in attacks or defend certain points 
 on a map, but really, these are just window dressing for a deeply dull combat system. The same 
 can be said for the scant few special attacks you earn for each character, which don't require 
 much skill and simply provide a way to occasionally break up the same combo strings you've been 
 using for hours at a time. For what it's worth, the challenge level on the default difficulty is 
 reasonable enough, but that's only in regards to the officer characters you fight against, as the 
 majority of the soldiers on the battlefield still stand around like dunces, waiting to be beaten 
 with your sword, spear, or whatever else.  

  To its credit, Samurai Warriors 2 does change up the skills and upgrades system a little bit, forcing 
 you to purchase new skills in between levels with gold you collect. Skills come from several different 
 categories, ranging from simple attack-strength upgrades to upgrades for your skills while mounted 
 on a horse, or skills for your bodyguard character, who follows you and fights alongside you at 
 all times. Unfortunately, the tangibility of these upgrades isn't always apparent, so it can sometimes 
 feel as though you're plunging money into nothing; but at the very least, this new system does 
 give you more control over how you want your character to be upgraded.  

  Besides the storylines, Samurai Warriors 2 offers a simple freeplay mode in which you can take 
 on several battlefield scenarios, free of the storyline; a survival mode that pits you against 
 an unending string of enemies until you can't fight any longer; and a new board game mode called 
 Sugoroku. Sad as it may be, Sugoroku is the most enjoyable aspect of Samurai Warriors 2's package. 
 It's basically samurai Monopoly, with up to four players rolling dice and hopping around a series 
 of squares mapped out to Japan. You can buy unowned squares and make them your territory using 
 gold, and if another player lands on that square, they have to pay you a small fee, or pay the 
 full value of the square to challenge you for ownership. Along the way, you can grab flags assigned 
 to your character, and you can eventually loop back to your home square once you've collected all 
 the flags to earn level and gold upgrades. There's even a chance system assigned to basic shrine 
 squares, whereby rolling the dice earns you one of several different bonuses, some positive, some 
 negative. The overall goal is to reach a certain gold count at the end of the game. Admittedly, 
 it's a pretty simple board game concept and it's the sort of thing that's amusing only for a little 
 while, but it's a more creative addition than anything else available in Samurai Warriors 2. It's 
 just too bad it can't be played online.  

  Speaking of online, the Xbox 360 version of the game does have Xbox Live play, but it's basically 
 a nonfactor. You can't compete directly against other players. Instead, you and an opponent fight 
 on completely different battlefields and never interact with one another. The goal is to defeat 
 the enemy officer on your battlefield first. If that sounds kind of janky, that's because it is. 
 It's a complete afterthought of a mode that just isn't much fun, but it also happens to be the 
 only competitive multiplayer option available. Neither version of the game has any sort of versus 
 or challenge mode, and all you do get offline is the same sort of perfunctory co-op play that the 
 series has had for a while now.  

          Sugoroku is a decent Monopoly knockoff, but it would have been a lot cooler if Koei had 
 licensed the little Monopoly dude, and put him in samurai armor with a monocle and top hat.    

  The Xbox 360 version has much bigger problems than just its lame online mode, too. For starters, 
 this does not look like an Xbox 360 game on any level. Similar to Dynasty Warriors 5: Empires from 
 earlier this year, it appears that developer Omega Force simply took all of their PlayStation 2 
 graphical assets, upscaled them as much as they could, and shoved them onto the 360. The character 
 models are bland, the environments are empty and colorless, and many of the textures in the game 
 look ugly on the PlayStation 2 version, let alone on the 360. In standard definition, you're basically 
 playing what looks like an Xbox game from 2003. In high def, you're playing an Xbox game from 2003 
 that has copious amounts of light bloom. Everything just becomes overly glowy and isn't made more 
 attractive because of it. As for the PlayStation 2 version of the game, it, too, looks deeply unimpressive 
 in this day and age. The graphics engine looks haggard beyond repair; a serious overhaul is clearly 
 needed if this series is to keep going (and if history is any indication, it will) . Apart from 
 the cheeseball voice acting and repetitive groans and slashes of battlefield action, Samurai Warriors 
 2 doesn't have a whole lot going on in the sound department. There's some pleasant music that plays 
 during battles and menus, but that's about all the audio has going for it.  

  Koei has proven in the past that it is capable of doing more with its Warriors games than simply 
 forcing you to cut up enemies endlessly with no overlying purpose beyond advancing a cheesy storyline. 
 With the Empires titles, Koei has periodically transformed these games from pure redundancy to 
 something strategic and interesting. Sadly, Koei hasn't quite grasped the notion that without the 
 Empires' strategic components included somewhere in the game, the action becomes completely uninteresting 
 after just a short time, especially after so many sequels that suffer from the same problems over 
 and over again. By no means should anyone but the most vehement fans of Koei's Warriors games even 
 entertain the notion of Samurai Warriors 2-- but even those frighteningly dedicated folk should 
 absolutely skip out on the Xbox 360 version of the game. After all, there's no good reason to pay 
 more for the same content if nothing's really improved.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SawtoothDragon
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:35 am PT
Review:  I played Samurai Warriors 2 on PS2 at first and it was awesome. Then I played it on the Xbox 360 
 and enjoyed it 10 times more! I like the gameplay of it, similar to the Dynasty Warriors franchise 
 series (both created by Koei) , but about Japanese History instead of Chinese History. I like Kotaro 
 Fuma the most in this game out of all, not just because he was a new character and on the cover 
 of the game but because he had the most unique moves out of all of the characters in Samurai Warriors 
 2. The graphics aren't much different then Playstation 2 but on xbox 360 it has the achievements 
 which make the diehard hack n' slash fans play even more!!!
  
  
  If you want a game in which you just want to kill stuff, this is your game!
  Left 4 Dead is also 
 a game in which you just kill stuff, so get that too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feedbackdrmmr15
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Game Review-Xbox 360-Samurai Warriors II
  
  Review 123
  
  Released: September 19, 2006
  Publisher: Koei
  Developer: Omega Force
  Game Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
 
  ESRB Rating: T for Teen
  ESRB Description: Mild Language, Suggestive Themes, Use of Alcohol, 
  Violence
  
  Story: 
 20%
  Gameplay: 40%
  Graphics: 30%
  Durability: 10%
  
  Story (10/10)
  There are a plethora of characters available to select from in this game, each with a very different 
 story that stretches through the same battles as other characters. The different viewpoints available 
 give the storyline a wide depth.
  
  Gameplay (9/10)
  Let me start by saying that this game is not for those who do not like button mashers. 
  
  
 Samurai Warriors II prevents redundancy by adding a wide variety of objectives and other interesting 
 aspects that keep the main object of the game from being slashing up thousands of people until 
 you kill them all.
  
  A lot of strategy must also be used, because once you die, you have to start that battle over from 
 the beginning (not very fun to do, as one battle could possibly take up to a half an hour or more) . 
 There are many difficulties to choose from, giving the player the option of having a challenge, 
 or just leisurely enjoying the storyline as they cruise through the battles.
  
  There is also the feature of a mini-game (a party game/board game mix) and a tower that contains 
 various quests for the player to fulfill with his/her choice of character.
  
  Graphics (8/10)
  As is the norm with Koei games, the graphics are very good, but they won't leave 
 the gamer in awe.
  
  Durability (9/10)
  I spent over 50 hours on the game and that was just completing the storyline with each character.
 
  
  Overall Score (8.9/10)
  Rounded Score (9/10)
  
  Final Thoughts:
  At only 30 bucks, the game is certainly worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  man i tell you this is a great one in midst of all 100 of them. normally i am not a fan of samurai 
 warriors and like to stick to the dynasty warriors series. however i cant keep my hands off this 
 one. it is highly addictive and has been out for the better part of two years now and i still play 
 it. it is probably the game i have played the most out of in my life. if thats not good enough 
 my wife loves it to and plays it non-stop with me. the graphics are not next gen but they are pretty 
 solid non the less. the game play is virtually limitless with all of its side missions and i highly 
 recommend it especially after the abomination that we call dynasty warriors six.
  
  now dont wet your pants and ask your mom to change you just yet so you can run to gamestop and 
 spend your parents hard earned cash (you know who you are) this game offers a mini game that is 
 vital in order to retrieve the characters most powerful weapons. it is like a rip off of monopoly 
 and is absolutely grating and annoying in every sense of the word. good thing you can listen to 
 downloaded music on this one people. now if you are adament on getting the weapon and beating this 
 annoying feauture then you must put up with the annoying completely one sided a. i. we like to call 
 the opponent in the game. this is damn near impossible for beginners and takes many hours to master.
 
  
  however on this note... yes kids now you can wet your panties and go buy the game. it is great and 
 offers solid gameplay. the only reason i dont give this one a higher score is because of the annoying 
 little feautures and lack of downloadable content. you have to go buy the xtreme legends remix 
 version. have fun wasting away many many hours. this one all in all is worth it. enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parapraxis
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  So basically this is your typical hack and slash game where you jump into it choose a character 
 and get to it. Theres a little strategy involved but not enough to keep you from attempting to 
 kill everything in sight. 
  
  The game play is really fun, and first time finishing it will definitely be great fun. but when 
 you play through it with another character, chances are you're going to have to go through the 
 same missions over and over again. 
  
  Every character has their own little cut scenes through various parts of the game but the biggest 
 problem with this is sometimes when you're using a character that bares any relevance to another 
 character they share the same cut scenes. The least that could have been done here is make it a 
 little more personally reflected so you can actually get some insight as to what they're thinking, 
 rather than just tossing in a video from another characters story into someone else's story. 
 
  
  In order to unlock characters in the game, you have to finish the story of a character that is 
 relevant, so you're bound to come across this blunt repetition if you have any plans of unlocking 
 all the characters. 
  
  Despite all these things that are a definite turn off, the game is highly addictive and you may 
 very well, surprisingly enough, find yourself returning to it until you unlock everything. 
  
  as far as Cost vs. Enjoyment, its money well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Like Dynasty Warriors most people hate these games because they are repetitive and don't understand 
 all there is to do and unlock. The Warriors games in general give me a handful of characters in 
 which you go through various maps (missions based) and slash your way through thousands of guys. 
 No complicated system. Its a simple.
  
  As you do this you level up, unlock things like new weapons, new guys to use and a bunch of stuff. 
 Your characters all use various weapons that have pretty cool special moves that power up as you 
 slash your about the map. And as you go you can get better versions of your weapon that look way 
 cooler. Although like any game half the guys you have are crappy. 
  
  So what makes this game so crappy? Probably its repetitiveness. I have only just begun to found 
 to it that way now after playing VERY version of this series, which is probably like 12 games or 
 something. It doesn't feel like much ever changes. The graphics don't ever seem to change, the 
 fighting is always the same. The weapons are the same. Even the missions are the same. So if none 
 of that changes then eventually you get sick of fighting through tons of people knowing that your 
 going to unlock the same guy you unlocked 100 times before in the other games. 
  
  On to the general review.
  
  Gameplay, Well that is pretty much listed above.
  
  Graphics. 
 Subpar. More like Xbox quality then 360. But then again the game is made to be a smash em up and 
 not a enthralling story to draw you in so I guess graphics are not meant to be its draw. Still, 
 looking at Ninety Nine Nights then this makes me wonder why this game has to look so bad.
  
  The controls are easy. It doesn't take much skill to smash X button for days on end and then 
 smash two other buttons at random.
  
  The music and sound are nothing amazing either. But once again I don't expect them to be. However 
 again I look at Ninety Nine Nights and wonder if they should be. 
  
  Overall this game is a rental if you never played the series. But I would recommend Dynasty Warriors 
 Gundam. Even if you don't care for Gundam like me the game is awesome! It feels fresh now that 
 they changed everything to the Gundam world instead of Samarias and what not. And it feels like 
 they actually spent time on it. I even bought the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackyroberts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  These type of games are the same every year, but why can't i stop buying them, because it's addicting. 
 I mean when your not in a good mood or you just want to plain out go kill about 1,000 men, this 
 is the game to own. I love playing this game with someone else, My kid brother and I are freak'en 
 wreckless with this game, we just love button smashing. You see, not only is this game fun, it 
 can also bring your family together lol. I got to admit though, it's not the type of game to buy, 
 better to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebbin
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  You run around using the left analong stick and hit the X button rapidly to attack. This is basically 
 the whole game. Sounds like a waste of time? It isn't. It is very fun. It's fun to get you KO score 
 up by killing dudes (which doesn't make that much sense since it is called a KO score) , and fighting 
 guys is just fun. You can play as different warriors, but only 3 of them are good. Fighting is 
 fun, and trying to defeat the mini boss enemies is fun too. Once you get a horse it is especially 
 fun. Running over dudes while slicing other dudes is fun. Now to what makes my score low. This 
 game belongs on a last-gen console (and it is on the PS2, but bringing it to the Xbox 360 seems 
 like a wasted opportunity) becuase of the overaly simple gameplay along with horrible graphics 
 and sound. But if you don't care, and just want to rent it for a couple of hours of fun, this is 
 for you. Notice I said couple of hours . Do not buy this game! It would be a waste of money. Instead 
 rent it, and you will have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarymovie5
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game was just terrible. How long can you last doing nothing but kill little people in the 
 same way? My friend and I had fun for about 30 minutes by just running over people on horses but 
 then it was just stupid. Even if you like hack and slash games don't bother. If you want a good 
 hack and slash game get dead riseing. I play every now and then but only for about 10 minutes at 
 a time. Playing this game is a little like reading the of this review. I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T T 
 T T T ' S S S S S S S S S S S B B B B B B B B O O O O O O O O O O R R R R R R R R R R R E E E E 
 E E E E E E E E E E I I I I I II I I I I IN N N NN N N N NN N N NN N G G G G G G GG G G G G G G 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNovak
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 11:12 am PT
Review:  It may not be a revolutionary new chapter in the series, and it may not be the ultimate imagining 
 of the Dynasty Warriors concept, but Samurai Warriors 2 is, thus far, the absolute best Warriors 
 game so far.
  
  Let's start with a few things that the official review conveniently left out. To begin with, the 
 game changes up mass combat by dividing characters into three groups: Normal, Charge, and Special. 
 Normal characters fight mostly with the regular attack button, switching it up with the occasional 
 charge attack for simple, effective combos. They play the most like what you're used to in the 
 other games. Charge characters have fewer attacks, but are able to use their Charge attacks multiple 
 times in a combo, often achieving different effects. Finally, Special characters are a bit limited 
 in straightforward combat, but can use their special abilities (another new addition to the series) 
 to achieve affects beyond those of less-specialized characters.
  
  Secondly, the story is by far the best-translated and performed one we've yet received. Cutscenes 
 and in-battle commentary give you a real taste of these characters' personalities, and generally 
 serve to make you like and even care about them. I never thought I'd say this about a Warriors 
 game, but I actually teared up a bit during one of the storylines -- yes, I'm a softy, but it's 
 still shows the game's surprising emotional impact. Even characters that would in most Warriors 
 games be incredibly annoying, like Hideyoshi Toyotomi's cheerful wife Nene, are so excellently 
 written and performed that you can't help but love them.
  
  Thirdly, the skill and item systems have been changed fairly dramatically from the Warriors norm. 
 Instead of equipping a limited number of items to give bonuses like boosted stats or the ability 
 to ignore arrows, characters learn Skills by gaining experience and defeating enemy officers. Any 
 (or none) of these abilities can be equipped at any time, but the most powerful can only be obtained 
 by obtaining every other skill on a character's list, and then battling in specific maps against 
 officers who know these abilities already. In addition, each character has a unique skill that 
 allows abilities like double-jumping or ignoring damage while one's Musou bar is full.
  
  There are, admittedly, two major weak spots: the minigames, Suguroku and Survival. Suguroku is 
 a board game, sort of a hybrid of Monopoly and Chutes and Ladders, and winning at least one game 
 is required to unlock one of the game's characters. Simply put, it sucks. A lot. Survival mode 
 is a bit more fun, as it's based around the core gameplay of hitting bad guys until they die. You 
 progress through an infinitely tall castle, completing missions for various characters and unlocking 
 things along the way, like Ranmaru Mori the transgendered swordsman, and the two unique, powerful 
 bodyguards. Unfortunately, it quickly gets very, very boring and repetetive, and if you choose 
 the wrong mission path, you'll be unable to recruit the characters and will have to start over 
 from the beginning.
  
  Aside from this, though, Samurai Warriors 2 is a very solid, enjoyable hack-and-slash of epic proportions. 
 With its interesting and likeable characters, unique character progression, and variety in combat 
 and movesets, I feel it is by far the best game in the series. Enjoy it, Warriors fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek-God
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Id first like to say the thing that made me cringe, gasp, wet myself and cry. I am POSITIVE that 
 the graphics are WORSE than the originals!!!!!! My bro bought it (hes a huge fan of samurai and 
 dynasty warriors) he got very addicted to it and i had about 1hr on it. Its so boring! The main 
 problem is that "Samurai warriors" falls in the shadow of "Dynasty warriors" which in my opinion 
 is much better. The game style of Dynasty and Samurai warriors has ended. After dynasty warriors 
 4: empires the franchises became pointless. I think they treid to make it better but acctually made 
 it alot worse. The gameplay is tedious and VERY repetitive. The graphics are insanely
  bad. They couldnt put an old Ps2 games graphics to shame. I found myself screaming at the t. v "WHAT 
 IS THE POINT!!!" I mean really? Whats the point of making another? Come on Koei get some new ideas! 
 Heres one a ancient oreint MMO. Just an idea. Please, Please, Please, any more of this and youll 
 borderlining Square enix, milking your ideas to DEATH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink67
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  I Enjoy this game alot.
  
  Game play- When you are fighting huge army''s and most of the time your the only person or warrior 
 there you have to kill them all. There combos with creat effect's like mistuhedays tornado combo 
 with pawns every one around him. The thing i don't like is that your allies stand there and watch 
 you die then attack. It is 2 player co-op witch is very fun i can't stress that enough. Each level 
 has it's own missons like take an emney base or kill the commander but each level is the same misson 
 wise well not exactly there are a few that pee me off like don't let eny officers die on your side. 
 There are about 25-27 officer's you can be.
  
  Graphics- Since this is ps2 graphics and i'm not a garphic whore i well but it 7 not much to say 
 just good but not that great.
  
  Sound- it's great you hear the foot steps almost percise and the sowrds hiting aromor and the voice 
 overs are really good. The music is really matching the japan culture.
  
  Value: You can get this game at a used game store or gamestop or eb for 30$ new or 20 used.
  
 
  Tilit: I think this game IS REALLY UNDER RATED REALLY! Well it is true it's not for people that 
 are into gears of war wicth is a decent game. Rent first to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakashi01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay is the same yes but the game does have more characters to unlock and can go online 
 now which is a change. The game has great graphics and has more things to play like sugoroku and 
 you unlock 2 guards in survivor mode which is a change from the first samurai warriors. The game 
 may not be hard but it does take a while to get everything you need for the game. Sure the achievments 
 are easy to get but hey why not get more points for your gamerscore to show off to your freinds 
 right? I havent yet to play the empires yet but i bet it may be the same just because its empires 
 its a different game type then the original one. Dynasty warriors is the same way as this game 
 but it still sells pretty good doesnt it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 5.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay, when the PS2 was first released, a nice hardcore little game named Dynasty Warriors 2 was 
 brought to our attention. The epic battles made it seem huge. The amount of characters was also 
 awesome. Ever since, they've made the same game with tweaks. Samurai Warriors was also unveiled, 
 but failed to impress. Dynasty Warriors 4 had an Empire edition, which made slight impact, but 
 was ultimately about as popular as the rest.
  
  So new console, new Samurai Warriors. Your first question would be is this going to be as good 
 as Dynasty Warriors 2 was back then? The answer. No. In fact, there are problems. But first its 
 time to look at whats new. One new thing is how they've done the controls. The camera can be moved 
 using the Right Stick, and instead of bows and arrows, characters have a rolling dodge move. Much 
 more useful. Of course there are characters that use arms, such as a bow or a musket, but they're 
 limited to combat styled ways of fighting.
  
  Characters level up, and indeed learn new skills and ways of fighting. This is good, but ultimately 
 doesn't add anything new. Experience is gained when collecting scrolls or defeating named characters 
 personally. You can also gain Cash from these guys and chests scattered throughout. Cash is used 
 to buy upgrades for weapons, skill mastery, Guards and Mounts. This is user friendly, but feels 
 a little pointless with one or two of the upgrades.
  
  The game also features a mini-game, named Sugoroku. Think of it as similar to Monopoly, but having 
 a limit to how much cash you need to obtain to win. You also need to collect flags, which help 
 you gain cash. This is good for a while, but is ultimately a very boring addition.
  
  And boring additions aren't what this game needs, since the gameplay is boring enough. Hack'n'slash 
 all the way. Sure there are missions to do, which is good, but fundamentally you're just running 
 around smacking enemies to pieces. This hasn't changed since Dynasty Warriors 2. This does away 
 with the bases, and just has players doing missions within a massive battle.
  
  The games visual content isn't worth the 360 title. If anyone thinks this is High Definition, then 
 look closer. All it is, is a normal game, with bloom. All that does is makes it brighter. The FMV 
 sequences do look nice, and show off a little of the capability of the consoles released on. The 
 sound isn't that great either, and the best of it is some of the music. The voice-acting is camp 
 and horrible, as are the various groans and screams.
  
  There is a free mode, survival mode, and on the 360 a Online mode. Free Mode hasn't been tweaked 
 with, so is the same as before, Survival mode is slightly interesting in that its quest based, 
 but is fundamentally beating as many enemies as you can, and Online mode is a joke. You never fight 
 each other directly, but race to beat the general. Boring! Achievements? Well unlock every character 
 and you'll have 1000GS. Sometimes it doesn't pick it up right away, so save twice every time.
 
  
  So this game isn't what its meant to be. One would expect them to know better by now, but of course 
 they haven't done much. A mini-game and quest based survival mode just isn't enough to save this 
 game. Achievement junkies may rent, otherwise, give this one a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: restlessdragon
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  If you like Dynasty Warriors than this is the game for you ... especially if you like killing huge 
 groups enemies ... it's just alot of fun ... on the harder difficulty levels it can be pretty challenging 
 ... lots of characters to unlock .... I played the first in this series and loved that one to ... 
 call me a fan but I like this one better than the Dynasty series ... not hard to learn ... the 
 only drawback that I have with the game is that the characters get maxed out and there is no extended 
 room for growth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave-mk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has alot of characters so if you beat the game with one character beat it with another. 
 Every character has a different story, you can be good or evil. This game has a cheap price and 
 it's worth the $20-$30. There is about 200 levels in all. 5 for each character. You can get new 
 weapons, guards, horses, and new skills to make you better. Different characters have different moves (specials) 
 Ninjas can do double jumps to go on different trails. The mini games in this game are good. Like 
 the virtual board game like monopoly. There is free mode were you can go through anyones story 
 mode that you've unlocked. (you still have the level you had in the characters story mode) and the 
 other mini game Survival mode. This game is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazykillajoe
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  If your a fan of the Dynasty/ Samurai Warriors series you will definetly like this game. The stories 
 are very creative and unique. The new characters in the game are also very fun to play with and 
 have good storylines. You cant create characters in the game but Samurai Warriors 2 Empires is coming 
 out in February. The maps are filled with amazing detail and beautiful scenery. This game is probably 
 one of the better Koei games to date. If you want the good storylines I would buy this game but 
 if you want to make a character and fight for territory I would wait for Samurai Warriors 2 Empires 
 to come out. (also you can play with other people on xbox live which is always fun.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowXsora
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 19, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Samurai Warriors 2 is the first foray into next gen of the series. And if this game shows anything, 
 it shows that the game is tried and true and keeps you coming back for more.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  Gameplay in this game is the same addictive hack and slash that KOEI's Warriors 
 series' pride themselves on. Some may claim that the hack and slash play is too repetitive. Those 
 people should stay away from this game because that's what type of play the game is based on. Graphics:10/10
 
  
  The graphics in this game are beautifully polished and deserve to be called next gen.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  This game has a variety of sounds and plays them all as if you were actually 
 in the battle. You can hear the swords clang and the splash of water and clomp of dirt roads as 
 you fight in the many stages of the game.
  
  Overall 9.6/10
  
  The combinations of Samurai Warrirors 2's great sound, graphics, and gameplay, makes it a very 
 worthwhile buy. I highly reccommend it to everyone who owns an Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  The Story is The next of Samurai warrior As I see samurai warrior II didn't Got any Good upgrade 
 realy from the one : the only change No Lag Delay in a horde of enemy ad happen so far on ps2 &amp; 
 xbox
  But Id liked Alot N3 just a bit too short for a story
  People give a Bad Review to Koei -.- A Great Would be If Koei &amp; Phantagram &amp; Omega Force 
 Where one ?? who know how far there would go Koei could just Bring the idea And phantagram the 
 Budge tBut For So far We know Koei as a Low Budget or someting there Graphic Hopefully Koei understand 
 that a Update of there Game engine &amp; Graphic Texture Would be Not bad for there Sales &amp; 
 maybe later a Great Online interface Who know. Oneday.. a Kingdome Warcraft ? u could control 1 
 Of Famous Dynasty Empire ? With all Officer &amp; Soldier But that wont happen before 2030 ? Or 
 someting
  
  Soldier are Still That Dumbass : officer a little more intelligence
  But SO far.. The Devloper need Ressource or something..
  That STory could be Great on a Remake 
 Saga Over high graphic
  or simply a Next ? IF the Story still according to new Of them . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonfire
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  Samurai warriors is just a waste of disc for most of it, Koei may have well just made evn more 
 dynasty warriors.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Just like dynasty warriors but a bit different such as the characters you play and the land you 
 fight on. Repetive strikes and a few different combos and weapons.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  I cant compare the graphics between dynasty warriors and samurai warriors because my latest dynasty 
 game was dynasty 4: empires, i can say samurai warriors graphics are better than that though, they 
 may even be better than the dynasty warriors 5 graphics because samurai warriors graphics are fairly 
 good, probably the best aspect of the game.
  
  SOUND:
  Sound for this game is good but many of the officers, when they talk, they repeat the same thing 
 alot. The attacking sounds are pretty good but dont match any games like oblivion or gears of war 
 for realism.
  
  OVERALL: It is a slight change to dynasty warriors but not a big one, i would still go for dynasty 
 warriors. But it isnt a bad game, if your fond of these types then you should like it. Im sortof 
 into these games and have played a few dynasty games. Its not bad but not good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytothe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 26, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were the first thing that slapped me in the face.... amazing graphics... I love the 
 fact that with the custom soundtrack I can finally put on some battle music without either drowning 
 out the sound of the game or it not sounding right... I also love the Sugoroku... which is a great 
 four player mini-game... me and my friends used to play it alot on the PlayStation 2 version... 
 and this will make it that much better with the graphics and music... you don't have to follow 
 the story... but I would advise it.. because Koei worked quite well making the story line fit quite 
 well between each character, whether it be fiction or not... the levels are definatly larger than 
 what the first one provided... as well with the larger levels... comes more troops to wail around. 
 The special abilities button is very much used between me and my friends... it's very usefull especially 
 if you are Yukimura or Keiji due to the whole call your horse... my favourite level is the one 
 to get Keiji's 4th level weapon... it has lots of enemies as well as a huge battle field... and 
 the whole concept of the level reminds me of Dynasty Warriors 3... Guan Yu's escape, or the Diao 
 Chan escape level... also each character has their own weapon and moveset... which is awesome because 
 of the great number of new characters... most noteable of the new characters is probably Musashi 
 Miyamoto... the greatest swordsman of Japan, and Kotaro Fuuma, the Ninja of the Hojo, and Sakon 
 Shima, as well as Mitsunari who you may remember from Kessen.
  
  My final thought on Samurai Warriors 2 for X-Box 360... AWESOME GAME... if you don't like, you 
 have no idea what an action game is supposed to be like... as well... if your looking for something 
 with the same gameplay, but more strategetic... kinda... then wait until Feb. 27, 2oo7 when Samurai 
 Warriors 2: Empires comes out... for X-Box 360 or PS2... a great buy as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ytford
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  This is my most favorite underated game. I've always had a softspot for Koei games. very addictive 
 and tons of replay value. Most people dont like it because its always pretty much the same game 
 everytime. But i say if it aint broke, dont fix it .Samurai Warriors and Dynasty Warriors also 
 have a somewhat cult fanbase which will never go away. These games offer so much value for your 
 buck in terms of replay, its ridiculus. You can literaly play this game over 100 hours easily. 
 And still be left tons of extras no earned yet. What more can i say, an underated series that always 
 delivers. Lets hope it stays this way for a long, long, long while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greydragon17
Rating: 6.4
Date: Oct 8, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Okay its been some time since the first Dynasty Warriors game on the playsation 2 system that really 
 blew quite of people away with the idea that one could have a huge number of ememies on the screen 
 at once and nearly kill over half a grand of foolish soilders by the end of the battle. I must 
 say that even I was a fan from the first time I picked Zhou and killed a horde of people from Shu 
 faction. And over time the game has grew into a even more solid game that you can say gave birth 
 to Samurai Warriors series that was like a breathe of fresh air to those a bit tired with the Three 
 Kingdom story, because no one can deny the fact the two series do share the same hack and slash 
 mechanics. Which by the way is not a bad thing cause if it ain't broke don't fix it comes to mind, 
 but in that same thought we have to take a second and be real with ones self and see that no matter 
 how good something is one will eventually want more. And that is where I think the problem lies 
 with this game as it gives you what you expect with gameplay, visuals, art, story and people are 
 probably happy with these things yet come to expect nothing less of the series as I'm sure it require 
 by fans to keep these little joys and if anything build on them. Then they try to create new elements 
 like online play, shop between battles and the new board game mode thing (Name of this game mode 
 escapes me so I apologize) and sometime these are a hit and lot of the time these attempts are 
 misses. And mainly the biggest disappointment come with online play as it really feels dull and 
 that they could do alot more with it if they took there time. Ultimately this game is one of my 
 least favorites of the Hack and Slash that Koei has done. Not to say that I down right hated it 
 cause in truth I enjoyed playing for what it is but overall I couldn't help but think that I wanted 
 more. But I have high hopes that the next Samurai Warrior is way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhare
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  Koei does his job to make a good hack n' slash game. However, if you really likes the warriors 
 game, you will definitaly find 99nights a much more enjoyable games than this one. Regardless of 
 the number of characters that you will be able to unlock, this games is nothing to compare with 
 99 night both in graphic level and hack n' slash level. To be more specific, once you've seen the 
 1000+ combo and over 3000 kills in 99 nights, you will pretty much feel nothing exciting to see 
 barely over 10 combos and 700-1000 kills in this game. From my point of view, this is just to see 
 which game put more enemy on screen and 99 night rocks.
  
  It is a fun to play though. But not that fun once you played 99 nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  my review is simple, start with the graphics, you can expect the about same level amount of improvement 
 when they did with Dynasty Warriors 5 Empires, it's widescreen and in HD, if you've played the 
 PS2 version, you can see a big difference in terms of resolution.
  the action itself is just plain hack n' slash that we all familair with, although Koei did add 
 something new to the leveling system, but the overall experience is quite the same.
  buy this game if you are into Japanese history, and being a loyal fan of the hack n' slash genre, 
 otherwise, you should just rent it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaduos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The problem with Gamespot is that they look for something new in every sequal and the fact that 
 this game follows its roots as much as the Dynasty Warriors and Samurai Warriors series' does, 
 really doesn't mean it's a bad thing. While I've yet to try the online aspect, I'm thoroughly enjoying 
 the single player part.
  
  Granted, it's the same thing we've all seen a dozen times. As a fan and avid player of every Dynasty 
 Warriors and Samurai Warriors games, I would definitely agree with myself when I say this is the 
 best in the series. Not because it adds anything new... it actually takes away one of the best 
 features that was in the first Samurai Warriors (creating your own Samurai and training them) ... 
 but it adds a refreshing change in terms of the maps you fight in, story elements, the music and 
 gameplay.
  
  Thankfully, the worst part was modified from the original and changed to make it much more fun 
 - that being the castle siege options. No longer do you have to tread through the same looking 
 floors of a 5 level castle just to get to the bottom and defeat the boss. Now, you set foot into 
 the castle on the battlefield and are instantly and seamlessly inside and sieging from within. 
 Not only is this an excellant change, but no longer do you feel like you're the lone soldier taking 
 on the infinite odds that are always inside. Your allies will follow you, making it a much more 
 enjoyable experience.
  
  Another interesting change was that of making the game much more like Dynasty Warriors in the more 
 realistic fashion. Ok, so a single soldier killing thousands of soldiers isn't entirely realistic. 
 The difference being between Samurai Warriors and Samurai Warriors 2 is that there is no longer 
 that mystical element, save for a few ninja spells and some characters that have elemental weapon 
 effects. The characters have taken a more mature and defined look... just like how you'd imagine 
 a soldier wearing full armor would be. There is still the incredibly large weapons on tiny women 
 aspect, but the game has more or less developed into a Dynasty Warriors look and feel instead of 
 12 year old girls wielding huge mallets.
  
  Interestingly enough, I found this game to be highly more enjoyable than any of the previous type 
 games, save the Dynasty Warriors Legends spin-off (I have a thing with creating my own soldier 
 and training them, or being an officer under a main character) . The stories of each individual 
 character are interesting and refreshingly new, especially if you've played Dynasty Warriors 1, 
 2, 3, 4.... 5......... It's nice to breathe in a new story and new history.
  
  The voice acting, while still not movie quality, is actually pretty well done, even the best in 
 these type of games so far. Some characters really fit their voice pretty well and those that don't 
 are actually pretty amusing to listen to instead of being so incredibly annoying that you'd wish 
 they'd just shutup. I've yet to find a character that I really wished I could kill just to get 
 them off the battlefield so they'd stop talking.
  
  All in all, don't believe anyone when they tell you this is a horrible game. Its far from it. It's 
 a great series, minus a few things and plus a few others, that I still find enjoyable. While not 
 taking huge leaps into new areas of the unexplored, it still brings back that mindless hack-and-slash 
 element with a few new added features, new stories, new gameplay options and an entirely new experience 
 all together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaChaorules
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-gameplay is skill basically the same, hack'n slash, but the missions really give you something 
 to do then just kill in this game. if you dont sucessfully complete certain missions they'll have 
 a big hit on your morale and have your leader surrounded by men and might die. There also is the 
 skill system which is pretty good since its a decent replacement for items in this game. The weapon 
 system is horrible though because you cannot pick your own stats like you can in DW5E which was 
 much better than having it randomly generated. The three musou bars dont really make a difference 
 since most of the time you won't find yourself only at level 1. AI is better in this game but still 
 pathetic, but you may find yourself sometimes in a bad situation facing multiple opponents.
  
  Graphics-horrible for a 360 game, it seems to be an upgrade from DW5E i guess but nothing much 
 to say here except an almost below average looking game.
  
  Sound-Voice acting is horrible in this, Voices dont portray anything of war or the characters true 
 personality . Such as Keijis whos voice sounds like a boy who surfs who hasn't reached puberty 
 yet, or maybe Ranmarus whos voice sounds more like a girls than Ginchiyos does, and the dumb thing 
 is, Ranmaru is a guy. The other sound is average in this game but certainly are a upgrade from 
 previous ones.
  
  Value- you can find high replay value in this game if you just simply always play hard mode. There 
 is also survival mode which may prove to be a challenge to you as you try and reach the top. Sugoroku 
 mode the weird yet intrigueing monopoly style game. And you'll find yourself playing this forawhile 
 if you decide to beat everyones story modes and get their 4th level weapons.
  
  Tilt-story is basic its about the sengoku era, but the lack of story mode for Ranmaru Mori and 
 Okuni really is bad because it pratically makes them useless to put in the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
