-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Scene It? Box Office Smash
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/sceneitboxofficesmash/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Improved visuals.
 Excellent range of films from the 1950s to 2008.
 Great online play.
 Better and more varied puzzles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only supports four players, online or offline.
 Movie clips repeat quite frequently.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.6, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 169 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Screenlife Games
Genre: Party
Date: Oct 28, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Scene It? Box Office Smash leaves the back lot and goes on location with new modes, improved special 
 effects, and great online play. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Scene It? Box Office Smash Review for Xbox 360 - GameSpot                                
    function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =              The Good 
            Improved visuals  &nbsp;      Excellent range of films from the 1950s to 2008  &nbsp; 
      Great online play  &nbsp;      Better and more varied puzzles.                The Bad     
        Only supports four players, online or offline  &nbsp;      Movie clips repeat quite frequently. 
                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update: 
  Avatar Support    Posted: Nov 19, 2008 12:49 pm PT      With todays launch of the  New Xbox 
 Experience , Box Office Smash has become one of the first games to feature support for players 
 customized Avatars. The free update is applied automatically when you load the game. &nbsp;    
            

  Like a great movie sequel, Scene It? Box Office Smash improves upon its predecessor in almost every 
 way imaginable. This release delivers refined gameplay, more party-friendly antics, and enjoyable 
 online play that was sorely lacking from the original. Even the hit-and-miss announcer from the 
 first game has been swapped out for two voice-over guys who bring some laughs while working memorable 
 movie quotes into their routine.  

           Sketches, like many other puzzle types, return with a new look and a lot more movies to 
 reference.      

  Just like the first Scene It release on the Xbox 360, Box Office Smash is a trivia game for up 
 to four players that is designed to test your knowledge of blockbuster, cult, and classic movies. 
 This great sequel collects videos, pictures, and trivia from films released from the '50s all the 
 way up to some films from this holiday season. In some cases, up to four players are challenged 
 to be the first to buzz in, which is more fun with one of the game's Big Button Pads, though regular 
 controllers are supported. In other cases, puzzles allow everyone the unfettered opportunity to 
 cast their ballots for what answer they think is correct. Regardless of the question type, the 
 sooner you answer, the more points you can win. The timing adds urgency and provides rich rewards 
 for players who are fast with the fingers, and able to quickly draw from a deep well of cinematic 
 factoids. Whether you play a short or long game, the puzzles are broken up into three rounds of 
 various puzzles, with a final round that is full of big payoffs. Prizes in between rounds also 
 do a good job keeping games close so as to discourage complete blowouts.  

  Box Office Smash reinvests in better special effects and more game-type variety. Gone are the less-enjoyable 
 old yearbook photo questions; in are some impressive new modes, including the deliciously 8-bit 
 reenactments of movie scenes. Each of the returning game types has gotten a face lift. Instead 
 of visiting movie studio locations for each type of puzzle, a flying couch takes emotive player 
 avatars to amusingly interpreted movie locations. The puzzle stages range from deciphering anagrams 
 in archaeologically inspired Mayan ruins to completing broken quotes in a mountaintop martial arts 
 shrine.  

  While those locations are undoubtedly best visited with friends, a high-score Solo mode is also 
 available. This allows you to play through a game where every correct answer increases a scoring 
 multiplier. As you chain more correct answers together, you can really ramp your way up the leaderboards 
 and unlock achievements. Box Office Smash also delivers the biggest game mode missing from the 
 first Scene It: online play. Online matches are fast, fun, and -- if you play with friends -- as good 
 as throwing your own movie trivia party with people scattered around the world.  

           A game about movies, including movies based on games? Truly, no genre is left out.    
   

  Some players might be disappointed by the movie clips that appear in every round, but even if you 
 see the same clips again and again, there won't be any shortage of questions to go with them. In 
 fact, most of the clips are some of the funniest, most suspenseful, or otherwise quirky moments 
 from the selected films. While not all of the clips are as tastefully selected as the first game's 
 repertoire, most adults will not have any problems with the substance of this game's categories 
 or content. Parents should take note of the game's T rating, because some of the included scenes 
 are taken from R-rated and otherwise mature movies.  

  This return of Scene It brings more movie clips, more recent titles, solid online play, and vastly 
 improved visuals. The improvements leave little to criticize and everything to enjoy. Scene It? 
 Box Office Smash is a great party game, and one that offers hours of enjoyment for even the most 
 casual of players.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ZookGuy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  I must applaud the developers for making such a great party game, a definite improvement over the 
 first SI?: LCA. First pro, online play and a halfway decent solo mode! The Xbox LIVE is some of 
 the best you cold possibly get when it comes to party games (except GH: WT and Rock Band) . The solo 
 mode pretty dang good to, addicting and better than single-player on SI?: LCA. Con, voices! The 
 "guys from the movie trailers" make the producer from SI?: LCA look like Morgan Freeman here, they 
 are that annoying. But thankfully the options menu get's them to shut up. Pro, avatar compatible. 
 Microsoft's response to Nintendo's Mii's are better used in this game than in any other game so 
 far (which is only five, I think) . Con, they kept the stupid credit roll mingame from LCA (the 
 worst mingame on the game) and they still haven't made it any less confusing. Please, I can judge 
 my movie trivia knowledge as bad just because I don't know the name of sound editor?
  
  All in all, if you want a really good party, you can't go wrong with Scene It?: Box Office Smash. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  Scene It? BOS is a great version of the popular board/DVD game at a great price. There are 4 controllers 
 included with the game and USB receiver plug in, so your ready to go with just this box, no buying 
 spare controllers. The game has three settings for short, medium, and long games. We tend to stick 
 to the medium, which should run around 30 minutes. There are many, many different categories to 
 choose from, equally splitting buzz in (where the first to hit the buzzer gets to answer) to all 
 play (everyone answers) . This evens out scoring somewhat so one person doesn't just buzz in and 
 answer everything. The movies are mostly popular ones, but there will be the occasional cult movie 
 thrown in that you may or may not have seen. After playing many games with the family I've yet 
 to see a repeated question. I'm sure there will be DLC, if there isn't already, to give this game 
 more legs. All in all, if you have 3 or more people to play with on a regular basis this game is 
 a near must have. For the price it's a very fun game, one no movie buff should miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AK_the_Twilight
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Movies and video games are like apples and oranges. While they aren't too different, you really 
 won't catch a movie fan pick up a controller, at least not usually. Fortunately, ScreenLife Games 
 decided to mix the two very different mediums together into the competitive movie trivia game, 
 Scene It? Originally a DVD-board game, the original Scene It? was a serious hit. After a ridiculous 
 amount of spinoffs, Scene It? began its migration from the board to the Xbox 360 console. The first 
 Xbox 360 game in the Scene It? tradition was the Lights, Camera, Action game, which was a surprisingly 
 interesting collection of movie trivia for movie fans, with a little accessibility in the questions 
 for good measure. Returning from the set is Box Office Smash, the newest Scene It? game for the 
 Xbox 360. Equipped with online play, new questions, and avatar support, does the newest Scene It? 
 360 title score a blockbuster?
  
  The goal of Box Office Smash is to answer questions concerning movie trivia correctly to earn points. 
 The earlier you buzz in, the more points you can get. Whoever has the most points at the end of 
 the game wins. Box Office Smash can be played in short, long, or custom game length, either offline 
 or over Xbox Live. Prepare for some challenge when playing online, because the competition is fierce. 
 Being that the game can be won by memorizing the questions, the online field can be a bit tricky 
 to nail. Fortunately, the game is best played locally. Upon selecting the game length and type 
 you get to select your avatar. You can load your profile's avatar from your 360 memory or randomize 
 an avatar if you want. Once everyone joins in, the game takes off.
  
  Questions are divided into varied groups, each one challenging you with different questions. Some 
 are pretty simple like Movie Clips, where you must answer questions based on a movie clip shown 
 to you. Sometimes you'll be asked the name of the movie or the actors, but sometimes you're thrown 
 a curve ball like "How many flowers are in the vase in the background?" or something similar. This 
 is good because it gives movie newcomers a chance and actually makes the game accessible for more 
 people. Other groups are more abstract like Invisibles, where you must say what's missing from 
 the picture, or Sequentials, where you need to arrange movies in the order in which they were released. 
 The diversity in the games makes for some great balance, letting even the newest of movie-goer 
 have a fighting chance. A major change in the gameplay is that you no longer lose points for incorrect 
 answers, which can make the game more involving and easier to dive into as well. After three rounds 
 of gameplay, the Final Cut appears, where correct answers net you multipliers for more points. 
 After playing a few games, it's safe to say that the game balances much better than the original. 
 It may make it seem a bit too easy at times (mostly in part to not losing points for wrong answers) , 
 but it makes for a better game overall.
  
  The multiplayer is Box Office Smash's crowning achievement; the game is best played with friends 
 or family, but you can also play against opponents over Xbox Live. While it's great to see some 
 serious online play in such a fun and competitive game, the game shows its best qualities when 
 played with three other players in the same room. The game is available game-only, or like its 
 predecessor, packaged with four Big Button Pads. The Big Button Pads act as buzzers and focus themselves 
 on simplicity. You get a central buzzer button along with the face buttons for choosing the answer 
 you want. They come with a sensor that plugs into the USB port of the Xbox 360 console, with the 
 Big Button Pads working wirelessly. You can choose to play with a regular controller, but quite 
 honestly, it doesn't feel right. The Big Button Pads are clever inclusions with the game, and really 
 make the game simple and easy to jump into.
  
  But Scene It? would be nothing without a wide collection of movies to identify, and like the original 
 board game, there's plenty. If you're a real movie fan, you'll be able to identify the big names 
 like Little Miss Sunshine or Edward Scissorhands, but you'll be surprised to find newer titles 
 like The Dark Knight or The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. Big movies, small movies, old movies, 
 new movies, there are a lot of movies in Box Office Smash. While this may alienate some movie knowledge 
 novices, the diversity and tremendous span of movie questions makes for some good competition. 
 However, as great as the diversity is, the game still feels a bit lacking. Like Lights, Camera, 
 Action, the game just could've used more questions. You will see clips repeating (though you'll 
 usually get different questions concerning the film) , which can be a bit distracting. With downloadable 
 content still unknown, you may have to deal with the on-disc questions for a while. The diversity 
 and expansive movie library to sift through are impressive; there just could've been more.
  
  The presentation is a bit different than the original Lights, Camera, Action game. Instead 
 of taking place on a movie studio lot, your avatars sit on a flying couch with buzzers in hand. 
 You won't find the same film-style authenticity, but the avatars' different actions are actually 
 pretty good. There's a quirky charm in seeing your avatar dance, celebrate, or even cheer on an 
 opponent and it is hard not to crack a smile at their actions. The rest of the game's graphics 
 are good, some pretty inventive. Seeing a giant refrigerator in the distance before a Child's Play 
 game (where you identify the movie based on child's drawings) is clever. While a majority of the 
 previous Scene It? 360 title was movie-lot authenticity, Box Office Smash tends to make fun of 
 itself much more. No better examples are the movie trailer announcers, who talk in weird movie 
 puns and joke around with each other. It's funny for a while (despite it being very cheesy at times) 
 but the guys can be annoying after a few games. The presentation in Box Office Smash is different 
 than its predecessor, but the great use of avatars and clever cosmetic design make for a charming 
 and relatively funny result.
  
  Pros
  + Great collection of movie trivia
  + Varied questions are challenging for movie experts and novices
  + Online play
  + Funny and 
 charming presentation
  
  
  Cons
  - Announcers can get annoying
  - Could've used more clips and questions overall
  - Online play isn't as good as local multiplayer
 
  
  Scene It? Box Office Smash essentially gives you more of the same, but the improved presentation 
 and new selection of movies make for an overall better game to play. Despite its slightly low question 
 count, it's pretty easy to get hooked on Box Office Smash, especially with a group of friends. 
 The online play is a generally good addition, though it pales in comparison to having four people 
 in the same room playing the game. If you love movies (or loved Lights, Camera, Action) you can't 
 go wrong with Box Office Smash. With challenging and clever game types, a great selection of movies 
 to test your knowledge, and a funny presentation, Box Office Smash is a remarkable improvement 
 over Lights, Camera, Action. It's a great party game, even for movie knowledge newcomers. Overall, 
 Box Office Smash is worth a rental at least. Pick it up sometime; you may be surprised at how much 
 you know about the movie Mean Girls.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 12:18 am PT
Review:  Well I never played the other games but I heard this is the most improved upon version yet. With 
 that being said I am not sure what to think of it.
  
  The gameplay it pretty simply. You choose a game mode long, short or custom. Online or off, with 
 or without friends. And then it goes through rounds in which there are various games where the 
 player (s) usually have to answer things correctly, solve a puzzle, say whats missing, fill in the 
 blank... etc. All having to do with movies. Its pretty cool on that end. And you don't have to have 
 the buzzers. Controllers work fine.
  
  So whats the problem? Well it isn't the number of questions. I played it everyday for about 2 weeks 
 and rarely seen the same questions that often pop up again. Except for the movie clip puzzles. 
 You tend to see the same clip ALL the time. 
  
  When playing with a friend (s) its probably the funnest. You can pick your avatars and all and everything 
 is a blast. But by yourself its not really any fun because it seems pointless besides to get achievements 
 if your into that. And online everyone seems to get every answer right, mainly because they have 
 played the game over and over so they know the answer by now. This kind makes online less fun.
 
  
  Another problem is alot of the games you don't even need to know the answer. You can just buzz 
 in right away and either take a wild guess for mega points or use the extra few seconds to decide 
 what you think it is because some of the games really are more about buzzing in first when you 
 think about it.
  
  Which leads to one of the biggest problems I think. If someone has about 2000-3000 points more 
 then you its practically impossible to catch up. Even with score deduction on for wrong answers 
 because if your behind in general that means you probably don't know as much which means your guessing 
 wrong anyways and this means your only ruining your score. Scoring is a problem.
  
  A minor problem but obvious one is movie selection. I know there are older people then me playing 
 (I am kind of old myself) but the have movies from the 50s in here. Why? Lets be honest there really 
 didn't need to be movies from that far back. And another thing about the movies is you can tell 
 that only certain studios would put their movies in this game. You often see the same movie in 
 diffrent games. Not once did I see a movie about a superhero or anything like that. Its not really 
 a movie trivia game if you don't have a selection from all the genres of movies from all the studios.
 
  
  Overall the game is worth a rental. Only but it if its in a bargain bin because this is about Box 
 Office Smash movies. Its about movies that you haven't really seen in awhile. Although they added 
 Dark Knight last minute so they look like it was current. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blastalot5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok you may be wondering why I give this game such a high score.
  
  The answer is that over the course of this past New Years 2009 holiday, a total of 7 couples played 
 this game at my apartment and everybody had a spectacular time with it. That's 14 total people 
 and only one of them, me, is a video game fan.
  
  Scene It? BOS puts you in the middle of a movie themed game show. Easy.
  
  The big button buzzers 
 that are included with the game set the tone of the competition very nicely. Everybody loves to 
 buzz in.
  
  The game mixes up the question and movie genre variety very nicely. It was fun to see how the guys 
 would excel at some questions and then the ladies, who thought they knew nothing about movie trivia, 
 rallied a bunch of right answers on others.
  
  There are bonus points for each team in between rounds, especially to the team in last place. In 
 my opinion, this was a well considered development decision because it ensured everybody had a 
 ball playing for the whole game and that makes for a good party.
  
  Yes I'm sure there are lots of technical and design areas that can be improved, but the bottom 
 line is the game is highly entertaining, especially for non-gamers.
  
  I highly recommend it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkfej
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay and graphics are much better than in Scene It: Lights, Camera, Action. The in game puzzles 
 and questions are much improved over Scene It: LCA. Most of the puzzles are similar in origin to 
 the puzzles in Scene it: LCA, but are updated and easier to understand/accomplish. This is great 
 when younger people are playing the game. The ability to turn negative points on and off is a great 
 enhancement. The variety of movies and genres depicted throughout is pretty sizable and makes for 
 increased enjoyability. There are a lot of different things from Family to Horror. The avatars 
 are kind of neat at first, but definitely lose their appeal after about an hour. I would rather 
 just have the ability to turn them off, but that's just me. Online play is enjoyable and helps 
 keep the game a little fresh. Although the online play is fun, the system seems to have a harder 
 time tracking the puzzles that you've seen. For instance, today I played five online games and 
 saw the same movie clip four times. Ugh. Although it's a good movie, you just tend to get tired 
 of it after a bit. Imagine what it would be like if it was a movie you didn't like! Overall it's 
 a pretty fun game and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshua6775
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Tired of online fragging? Tired of sports games? Try Scene it? Box office Smash as a nice change 
 of pace. It's a movie trivia game that the whole family can play even if it may be geared to older 
 players with some older movie knowledge. The game has several categories of unique puzzles that 
 make up the game, so it's not all just multiple choice snoozer.
  
  If you're looking for a game to get your significant other to finally play along with, this is 
 by far the best game for that. I played for hours with my girlfriend and I found her playing on 
 her own time again today. Brilliant family fun with easy achievements.
  
  Arguably the biggest element to this game is the party playability. Should you find yourself entertaining 
 for an evening, this is a perfect game to pop in and keep the party going. Add in online modes 
 and there are endless possibilities for community gaming, whether LIVE or Local. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goots_88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  
  
  Just putting this out there, because I feel like this game is often over-looked by many people. 
 I am a huge movie fanatic, I think the same with alot of other people. And like most movie fans 
 you often find yourselves quoting movies with your friends when the moment is right. I played the 
 first one and loved it! One of the most fun games I've played with friends in a long time (even 
 one time with my parents over Easter, the game includes movies from the 60's and 70's. I think 
 to purposely give your parents a chance. Great family game) . However, to be honest the content 
 was a little on the short side. For the first month or so, when we played on the weekends it was 
 tons of fun. But after playing though it a couple times, we started seeing the same questions more 
 and more. Therefore, the game started testing your memory and not your true knowledge of movies. 
 I played the demo on Xbox LIVE for the new Scene it? and it seems really polished. After reading 
 reviews theres a ton more movies and content, with the ability to download even more content off 
 LIVE Marketplace. I am picking up the new one today. And I can't wait! So please, give the demo 
 a try. You will not be disappointed.
  
  On a side note, if you buy the full bundle. It comes with 4 extra controllers at the same price 
 for a regular game (59.99) . And the controllers are like buzzers, definetly adds even more charachter 
 to an already great game. However, you can buy just the game in use your controllers for a measley 
 $39.99. That's one I'm doing since I got the 4 controllers with the first one. But do yourself 
 and your friends a favor spend the extra $20, its well worth it.
  
  I am not a sales person for this game. I just truly feel that this one of the few great party games 
 that is out there, that is easily over-looked by many. And I am just putting it out there because 
 I would want someone to tell me about a great game if it was not well-known!
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
