-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Scene It? Lights, Camera, Action
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/puzzle/sceneit/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Buzzer-style controllers are cool.
 Encompasses a wide variety of genres and decades.
 Achievement points encourage you to keep playing.
 Only game of its kind on the Xbox 360.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No online play or leaderboards.
 Limited play modes and no custom game options.
 Only four players at once.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 14, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 595 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: Screenlife Games
Genre: Trivia / Game Show
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Scene It?'s brand of movie trivia is one that will be enjoyed by both casual and hardcore movie 
 fans. 

  Scene It? has been a popular DVD-based party game for a number of years, so it's not surprising 
 that the series has finally landed on a console, and with cool buzzer controllers to boot. Scene 
 It? Lights, Camera, Action is a multimedia party game that will test your Hollywood knowledge from 
 the 1950s to 2007. Film buffs who want to showcase their nerdiness will love the game, but even 
 if you're only a casual movie fan, it's a lot of fun.  

  You can play Scene It? with regular Xbox 360 controllers, but the game comes with four special 
 controllers officially known as the "Xbox 360 Big Button Pads." With the exception of being wireless, 
 these controllers are very similar to those used for Buzz! on the PlayStation 2. They're meant 
 to be held in one hand, and they feature a big, colored "buzzer" button on top as well as four 
 face buttons lined up vertically on the front of the controller. Although the controllers are wireless, 
 you do need to set up the included sensor atop or near your television and then plug the sensor 
 into an open USB port because the controllers use infrared and not radio frequencies to transmit. 
 They also require two AA batteries each, which are included with the game. It's curious that the 
 game restricts you to only four players, even if you have more Xbox 360 controllers. This kind 
 of limits the whole "party game" appeal of the package. There's also no online play and there aren't 
 any leaderboards, which is a shame because both seem as if they'd be a natural fit here.  

           There are no parting gifts, but all players get their own wireless controller while they 
 play.      

  Once you've got the controllers set up, you'll want to pick a game type. This won't take long because 
 there are only two options. "Party play" randomly selects game types and goes on forever. Why this 
 is considered party mode is anyone's guess. It's also anyone's guess as to why the game shows you 
 everyone's answers as soon as they enter them in this mode (but not in the quick-play mode) . When 
 three people quickly answer a question and exclaim "Oh that was easy!", it's not too hard for the 
 fourth person to figure out that the others know the answer, look to see what it was, and then 
 enter it. Suffice it to say you're going to want to go with the "play now" game mode, which lets 
 you play a more structured game. You can choose from short play, in which each of the three rounds 
 consists of three puzzles, or long play, which raises the number of puzzles per round to five. 

  The game is set in a Hollywood movie lot. The game's host will take you around to different areas 
 and start a set of questions loosely based on that area. Consequently, if you're in the animation 
 studio, the puzzle will be centered on a drawing, and if you're in the sound studio... you get the 
 idea. Each question is typically worth 2,000 points, and the point value decreases as time passes. 
 Most of the time there's no penalty for a wrong answer, but there are occasions where you do lose 
 points for an incorrect guess. There's tremendous variety to the types of game, or "puzzles" as 
 they're called. We'll cover the highlights:  

  "Child's play" shows a childlike drawing of a scene from a movie, in which characters slowly fade 
 in as time passes. "Invisibles" shows a photograph from a film but with the actors digitally erased, 
 and you must guess the movie. "Now playing" shows the background of a movie poster and slowly adds 
 in details, and "pictograms" shows pictures of everyday objects that are put together to make a 
 movie title. There are some puzzles that use movie video or audio clips, and although there could 
 be more, they're welcome for the variety they add. "Movie clip" shows a short clip of a movie and 
 then asks you to answer questions based on the clip, whereas "soundclips" plays an audio snippet 
 and has you guess the movie. Those are the highlights, but there are plenty of other modes, most 
 of which are fun and a few of which aren't all that exciting. You might have to unscramble movie 
 titles; finish a famous song, slogan, or saying; guess a movie as a sketch representing its title 
 is drawn; put four movies in order according to their release dates; and even name what movie a 
 certain prop belongs to.  

  Once the round is over, you're awarded bonus points for being the fastest, answering a streak of 
 questions in a row, getting every question in a puzzle correct, and more. After all three rounds 
 are finished, you're taken to the screening room for the final cut. Here you'll watch a clip from 
 a movie and then answer questions based on the clip and the movie in general. The catch here is 
 that you're awarded a multiplier for each consecutive correct answer you give -- up to 10 times. 
 Scores could surpass 30,000 points here, which in some cases might be more than someone got in 
 all three rounds combined. Though this certainly makes things exciting, it can render all of the 
 previous rounds moot if one person knows the movie in question well enough and the others don't. 

  Scene It? is a lot of fun, but there are some things it could have done better. The presentation 
 is somewhat drab, and the announcer is tolerable at best, but none of this hurts the experience 
 too much. It would be nice if there were more movie clips and more variety to how they are used, 
 but there's a wide range of studios and actors represented... even if John Travolta seems to have 
 an unusually strong presence. The game does a nice job of including a variety of genres from a 
 number of different decades, right up to the present day. And by present day we mean  present day 
 --there are references to flicks as recent as  The Simpsons Movie , but there aren't a lot of clips 
 from more recent films.  

           Question: When do old yearbook photos quit haunting you? Answer: Never.      

  All 
 in all, Scene It? is a very good game that brings something new to the Xbox 360's crowded holiday 
 lineup. It might seem a bit steep to shell out 60 dollars for a trivia game, but you get your money's 
 worth, and not just because of the controllers. The game tracks what questions it has asked you, 
 and there's a lot of content (you can play four games without even seeing all the puzzle types 
 and there are over 1,800 questions) , so you shouldn't run into repeat questions for a while. Even 
 repeat questions aren't much of a problem because you'll need all the help you can get to earn 
 some of the game's achievement points, which have a knack for getting you to mutter that ominous 
 phrase "Just one more game, I can get it this time!" You'll certainly get the most enjoyment out 
 of Scene It? if you're really into film, but even casual movie fans will find a lot to like here. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Homicidal_Sloth
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  Scene It brought to the Xbox 360. Basic gameplay: Use your Scene It buzzers that come with the 
 game to answer various trivia questions about old and some modern films. It's a fun concept, and 
 it works well with 2+ people. So, don't expect to be playing much in the single player mode, which 
 I haven't even tried out yet. There are a ton of different questions to answer about different 
 movies. There are name the actors, name the movie, which movie is this picture from, which movie 
 was this prop in, etc... Basic questions which are fun. You get points for answering questions 
 right, and the faster you answer the more points you get. Then at a certain point in the game, 
 you start to lose points if you answer questions wrong, so you better know your stuff. So it sounds 
 like I basically summed up the whole game, right? Well I did, and it's simplicity is a good thing, 
 so everyone can play!
  
  Everyone older than 20. Not literally, though. It's just that you probably won't have seen many 
 of the movies they ask about or show you, so many questions will be down to guessing. Basic summary: 
 It's a fun game for more than 2 people but will be very difficult for anyone under 20-ish. If you 
 have a family of four, then this is a good choice for non-gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpideR_CentS
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  I waited until I found this game on clearance. Let me tell you I would not have been disappointed 
 had I paid full price. While the host of this game is a little bit annoying, the game itself is 
 a blast. Fun for all, gamers and non gamers. 
  
  First I would like to touch on something not really fleshed out in the Gamespot review. That is 
 what comes in the box. The case for the game itself is a little disappointing (its a thin case) , 
 but the paddles and the sensor are top notch. I was very surprised when I broke the paddles out. 
 I figured they would just be some cheesy cheap add-ins that would break after a couple times playing. 
 This couldnt be further from the truth. They are really nice, with A, B, X, Y, Select, Start, Guide 
 and the BIG button built in on all 4 pads. The sensor is nice too. All in all the gear that came 
 with this game was a nice bonus. 
  
  Now to the game itself. One of the best things about this game is the balance. I like to think 
 of myself as kind of a movie buff. My girlfriend is not. She still took 2 out of 3 games we played 
 against each other last night. With games like face recognition & word jumbles, its not all about 
 who can quote what movie. The buzzers add in to the gameshow vibe. Its nice to have a game that 
 gamers and non gamers can sit down and play, have fun, and everyone has a chance to win. I can't 
 tell you how much I recommend this game for anyone looking to have fun with friends or family. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. It's defiantly not a ground breaking game or anything, but the fun factor, 
 and the family factor in this game are just simply amazing.
  
  Me and my family have played this game in total for about 20 hours, and having a blast. The only 
 thing that dissapoints me, some of the movies are old and I don't know what they are. My parents 
 usually win on those. However, if you like fun games with the family and something everyone would 
 enjoy then go get this right now! The clips, and bill boards, and everything in the game is from 
 old to new. I have seen some pretty recent stuff on the game that made me go wow, I know that movie 
 or I know that picture! However some of them I have to think and some of them they give you like 
 4secs to pick which answer and I am like CRAP which one is it!?!?!?!
  
  Lots of laughs tho.
  
  Even if it came out a long time ago it is still a good game to get.
 
  
  Can't wait for the new one that is coming out :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warheart1188
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Scene It? is a one of the most beloved board games. For movie and t. v. show fans, there's almost 
 always a Scene It? for it. Now, we get the game on the console (the best next-gen console) Xbox 
 360. The game is packaged with the game disc, 4 controllers (which are like remotes with 4 buttons 
 for answer choices and a big button for calling in first to answer) , and a USB sensor that picks 
 up the controllers' signals. This game deals with the movies. Your role is that you're a new member 
 to a film set crew and you're quizzed in different parts of the set which pertain to what questions 
 you'll be asked. The game features different modes of play for single and party plays. There are 
 short games and long games. The questions range from pretty easy to very challenging, depending 
 if you're a movie buff or not. I'm a film aficionado and that game just strikes my fancy like crazy. 
 There are questions such as naming a film based on a picture that looked like a 2 year old drew 
 it. There are questions that feature a clip (in Hi-Def!) and a series of questions that follow 
 that pertain to the scene. There are so many types of questions that I can't even remember. But 
 the great thing about this game is that it appeals to huge fans of movies and small, moderate movie 
 fans. Also, while the game is fun if you're playing by yourself, the most fun you'll have is with 
 others (just like the real thing!) . It's fun trying to outscore your friends and show off your 
 movie knowledge. The only letdown is that the game doesn't feature Xbox Live support, so no online 
 multiplayer or downloadable questions. How cool would that be? Being able to download questions 
 from the latest movies or others that aren't featured in the game. I would love to show off some 
 guy in Sweden that I know more about King Kong than him, but to my dismay, I can never do that. 
 If this game featured Xbox Live multiplayer, this game would be a MUST HAVE for everybody. Now, 
 since this is Xbox 360, there are the achievements. Most of the achievements are pretty easy. If 
 you're playing with more people, there are some fun achievements to get and you can anywhere from 
 1-5 achievements in one game! They range from achievements from getting a certain amount of points, 
 playing a long game, playing a multiplayer game, getting every question in a series right, getting 
 30 questions in a row right, etc., etc.,. All in all, the game is so much fun and I recommend it 
 for everyone looking for a fun party game that doesn't use a plastic guitar or a plastic drumset. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEEDman_X
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Without a doubt, scene is not a revolutionary game, nor does it impress the gamers with innovations. 
 However, it is perhaps the most enjoyable movie trivia game there has been.
  
  It's not hard to list the differences or advantages it has over the board game versions of a few 
 movie trivia game, such as Scene It and Star Wars. First, the game successfully replaced the dice, 
 board, pieces, tokens, and DVDs with four sets of buzzers and a game disk. Further more, the console 
 act as a ref to eliminate all the possible disputes over the game.
  
  Though the changes are not revolutionary, the result is :-D The game plays like a game show on 
 TV. If you log in your profile, the game will also remember that questions you've been ask to make 
 sure that the same questions will appear more than once.
  
  I give it a 9, because I find this to be one of the best party game out there. Of course, it's 
 some what disappointing that most questions are from the Hollywood mainstream movies. However, 
 if you like movies, I will highly recommend you to check out this game :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsikki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Usually all the games are better in online game, co-op, or split-screen with your buddy. This game 
 is different, it's NOTHING without friends to play with. Tons of well thought questions from simple 
 to ones that really require knowledge of movies, or good lottery skills. With 2 or more players 
 everyone is sure to score some points in one of the many variable game modes. The unique "Scene 
 it!" controllers bring the game to life and add more touch to it. The animations are pleasing and 
 the sound acting isn't too irritateing. It takes no skill to have fun with this masterpiece, but 
 asks for brain work if you really want' to pwn your buddies.
  Game will memorise the questions it has asked so the same question won't pop up right after. The 
 lack of online play or scorebords don't really even matter cause you and your friends are sure 
 to know who they must take down from your crew to be announced as the king!
  You don't even know how fun it can be, just waiting for someone to make more games like this so 
 that the special controllers get to be used more often.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalgridlock
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Scene It: Lights, Camera, Action is the first video game outing of the popular board game series, 
 Scene It. The game itself revolves around movie trivia, using both standard questions and a DVD 
 with clips from films and associated questions. Dozens of iterations of the board game version 
 have been released to date, covering all topics from general movie knowledge to specialised film 
 and television categories such as Harry Potter, Disney and James Bond. This XBox 360 release is 
 based on the regular, vanilla Scene It, albeit with some major differences facilitated by the video 
 game format.
  
  Play progresses through a number of rounds that vary in length depending on whether you are playing 
 a long or short game. Each round is made up of question blocks, containing five or so questions 
 in the same style. There are many types of questions, many more than the board game contains. Just 
 some of these include: movie clip (a movie clip plays and then questions are asked about the clip 
 or the film in general) , quotables (finish the quote) , child's play (pictionary) , credit roll (guess 
 the film based on a selection of credits) , pop culture (general film knowledge) , rising stars (guess 
 the actor based on a yearbook photo) and a lot more. Twenty-one categories in all. Points are gained 
 for answering correctly and quickly, points are lost for answering incorrectly, the person with 
 the highest score wins. Simple enough.
  
  The game is essentially designed for the multi-player arena, and while you can play alone, much 
 of the competitiveness and revelry associated with crowd-around-the-television gameplay are lacking. 
 The game comes with four buzzer pads, so find some friends and get playing! Real-life friends, 
 that is. While the game supports multiple accounts on the same console, there is no option for 
 online play, which is a shame since the game lends itself so well to multi-player play.
  
  Movie knowledge is a requirement if you want to get particularly high scores and grab some of the 
 tougher achievements, but most of the fun comes from sitting down with a group of friends and having 
 a laugh. You don't need to be a film buff to enjoy yourself, and even those who think they know 
 everything will quickly find this is not the case. I love movies, and my knowledge is pretty good, 
 but I was still presented with a decent challenge throughout.
  
  The only real complaint I have about the gameplay is a problem that cannot be practically avoided 
 in a game that relies on proper licensing and copyright law and goodness-knows-what. The game contains 
 movie clips and questions from most of the big film studios, hundreds of mainstream movies and 
 a decent handful of more lesser-known titles. Maybe it is because I have a penchant for obscure 
 and in particular foreign movies, but I often found myself yearning for something that wasn't quite 
 so Hollywood.
  
  The style of Scene It does not require flashy graphics. Rather something more simplistic is needed 
 and generally the game delivers. Questions and text are clear and legible even on a smaller screen; 
 backgrounds and whatnot are bright and easy on the eye. Movie clips are nicely presented in the 
 correct aspect ratios with good colour and contrast, with some even being available in hi-definition 
 for those with decent televisions. If I have a complaint about the presentation, it is the somewhat 
 annoying and, to my eyes, rather pointless introduction animations to each block of questions.
 
  
  Accompanying these introductions are some of the most irritating voice-overs I have heard. Poor 
 attempts at humour, a cheesy accent and no option to turn the guy off. What a shame. The music 
 is bland and forgettable; better that than obnoxiously annoying. At least the sound on the clips 
 is fine, if a little quiet sometimes  resulting in a mad scramble for the remote before the clip 
 is over and the game asks you how many times Harry made a woman meow.
  
  The game contains a lot of questions, somewhere in the region of 2000 according to internet sources. 
 The game also keeps track of which questions have already been asked over every play session, so 
 there is little chance of repeat questions that could quickly spoil the fun. Of course, eventually 
 the questions are going to run out, but I'm guessing you'd have to play for an insanely long time 
 for that to happen. Also, while nothing has been officially announced or even suggested, the Xbox 
 Live Marketplace is the ideal forum for fresh content and I wouldn't be surprised if a few extra 
 'question packs' appear over time.
  
  Games with extra peripherals seem to be popular these days, and while the publishers could have 
 gone the money-grabbing route and charged excessively for the pack, instead we get the game and 
 the four infra-red buzzer pads needed to play for the price of a regular game. Definite bonus points 
 there.
  
  At the end of the day, this is a good party game, if a touch cheaply-done and unavoidably cheesy. 
 If you are a movie fan, even a casual one, and you know a few others who don't mind coming over 
 for a round or two, don't hesitate in getting Scene It: Lights, Camera, Action for your XBox 360. 
 You will enjoy it, I guarantee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Scene it? Lights, Camera, Action is a game that nearly anyone can enjoy and with such a simple 
 interface and control scheme that even your grandparents could get in on the fun. The game has 
 taken what the boardgame/DVD had started and made a fully interactive and fun multi-play experience 
 which is fun for just about anyone.
  
  The game comes out of the box with a receiver and four wireless Buzzers all distinguished by there 
 different colours in order to indicate the different players. The control scheme is inspired by 
 previous buzzer games for the PS2 and is so simple that anyone could use them and it is always 
 clear who answered first everytime so the past arguments people may of had over who buzzed in first 
 are long gone making it extremely fun and competitive.
  
  Once in the game you have a few game options such as short play, long play, party mode etc. they 
 don't influence the game play to much just the type of games you play and how many questions you 
 get but once in your preferred game type you and the other players will be faced with countless 
 game types with over 1,800 different questions so the risk of repeat is not very high.
  
  The game is displayed in HD with countless movie clips, visuals etc. which take utalzie and advantage 
 of this. Overall the game is a winner no matter how you look at it as it can be played by anyone 
 making it easily the best family game to hit the video game market . The game is a bit boring when 
 played by itself but just like the board game is meant to be played in a group so as a video game 
 not perfect but when it comes to family fun this is the game to have and should be apart of any 
 house hold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXists
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:                                                
  [The Good]
                                                
  - Controllers   4 new pretty cool controllers 
 included for $59.99
  
  - Gameplay   Simple straightforward controls with a significant variety of fun puzzles
  
  - 
 Movies   Watching so many classic movies as well as more recent ones is fun by itself so adds a 
 lot to the game
  
  - Achievements   Properly balanced, keeps you playing for many hours.
  
                                                
  [The Bad]
                              
                   
  - Controller 360 Start button   Not a good idea to give all players the ability to start/shutdown 
 the 360, don't include it next time!
  
  - Creativity   even though there's many different mini-games, some new ideas would definitely help, 
 more interactivity with movie scenes for example.
  
  - Bug   When playing the "list movies in sequence" you can view other players options AND more 
 importantly the buttons don't work properly, you have to click several time to get them working. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joey4uncw
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  While playing this game I've found that you can play with more than 4 players you can make it more 
 like a party game with teams. One person of course would put in the answers and everybody else 
 could help with the answers. I have played the DVD version of the game and it is a different game 
 play that stays pretty consistent with the original game play. One good thing about the game is 
 that you don't have to be a movie know it all to have fun and do pretty good at it. Many of the 
 questions are based on things that you will see or have seen in the game itself. Another good side 
 to this game is that you can even bring others who don't normally play games to play this is the 
 idea this is more like a board game than a video game which may turn some potential players off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kletomax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:08 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for my wife for christmas in an attempt to bring her into the gaming world. 
 It turned out to be a pretty good choice, now if I can get her into Call Of Duty.... We both love 
 movies and we both love good competition. The wireless controllers to start off, work very well, 
 the only downside being that since they are IR and not radio, they must be pointed at the single 
 receiver. Generally this isn't an issue, but if your kicked back in the lazy boy, sometimes it 
 does not work. But hey... you get a game and 4 controllers for the price of a normal game. Can't 
 complain to much. On to the gameplay. There is a variety of "formats" that the questions are asked. 
 Some you watch a short clip from a movie, then answer questions pertaining to that scene and to 
 the movie as a whole. There are other formats such as letter scrambles, scene stills, and billboard 
 art guessing just to name a few. The game seems well put together and operates very smoothly. The 
 game covers decades of films which makes it tough for every player. I can't wait to bust this game 
 out the next time I have friends over. Its sure to be a hit with everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  believe me don't argue with that, it's the best party game you will ever get on xbox 360 and from 
 my point of view, it can manage to level mario party fun factor but in a totally different perspective 
 and it's all about movies and everything about movies trivia, your friends, family or maybe your 
 pet will like it too, so if your thinking of buying a good party game, then this is will be your 
 best bet, hell you will not go wrong with it and you will spend hours over hours without noticing 
 time.
  im not good at party games, but this one will change your whole point of view on party games, hell 
 i was thinking on buying wii just because it has alot of party games, but you should start with 
 scene it? and believe it or not, you will never regret it.
  
  the only con thing about scene it?, it's only about movies, but im sure they will release different 
 things on live and this will not chage you from buying scene it? and im not sure if thats a con 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farreg
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2007 4:35 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game i wasn't expecting too much, and I think that is a good stand point 
 to start. Firstly as a 'video game' it's not top notch, but as a video 'game' it excels.
  
  Scene it? cleverly breaks itself up into varied rounds of different formats of questions on a diverse 
 movie database. The differing gametypes help prevent the standard ask a question answer a question 
 format and presents fun 'mini-quizes' in which there are several in a round.
  
  It also helps to take the lead from the over smart players by offering differing ways of getting 
 players to answer questions and earn points. The ways it does this is to offer both buzz in rounds 
 and all answer rounds. Add to this the varying types of questions and trivia (identify missing 
 objects to name the movie from the clues to watch this scene and answer questions) adds much more 
 complexity to this gametype.
  
  This would be a great stand alone game, but unfortunately to make it a stand alone game would drive 
 the cost sky high, it is obvious why a console release is the best format for this game.
  
  Some of the bad things about this game are that the movies range from classic B&amp; W movies you've 
 never been anywhere near, to recent underground films you very likely have not seen. Add to that 
 the Buzzer uses IR signalling to opperate wirelessly (even though the controllers are a Microsoft 
 product) and you have some minor frustrations that detract from your enjoyment.
  
  Though it does have it's irritants, the game is till fun, especially when competing against your 
 friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeOweU1
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  The Good: unique gaming experience, family fun for all ages, over 1800 questions, highly addictive, 
 price includes controllers and game.
  The Bad: questions start to repeat, no HD movie clips, no online multiplayer, no leaderboards, 
 no custom play games.
  
  For all of you who have heard of Scene It or have played the original board game, Scene It for 
 the Xbox 360 has made this game even bigger. The movies range from old black and whites of the 
 1940's to movie clips that are beginning to be released in theaters, and will test your movie knowledge 
 to the max. You can play Scene It with regular 360 controllers, but the game comes with the "big 
 button" controller which adds a "game show" aspect to Scene It. There are 4 controllers that can 
 be played at once, so any party over 4, you will need to start sharing controllers. The veterans 
 of the board game version will be familiar with most of the game types such as pop culture, take 
 3, sequentials, my play movie clips, sound clips, distorted reality, invisibles, and the final 
 cut. The nice aspect of the 360 version as opposed to the board game is that all questions are 
 multiple choice, and the "all plays" use the big button, so there is no question about who answered 
 first.
  The gameplay of Scene It is not only fun and addictive, but competitive as well. Players are given 
 points when they answer a correct question, and are given a point total based on how fast they 
 answer. When round two starts for the game, you lose points for incorrect answers, which make a 
 couple of the achievements challenging and very rewarding. The achievements in Scene It are straightforward, 
 and add to the game's competitive and addictive aspect.
  The only problem with Scene It is the lack of multiplayer online and leaderboards. It would have 
 been nice to play with other people online when you don't have an extra player, and when you do 
 get 60 questions in a row correct, what better way than to brag online and have your gamertag posted 
 on the leaderboard. Most of the movie clips in the game are in standard definition, so HDTV owners 
 will be a little disappointed on their large screen TV's. Other than the lack of multiplayer, Scene 
 It: Lights, Camera, Action! is a very solid game and will have you wanting more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waskallywabbit
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Many hardcore gamers are going to pass on this, thinking that it is another attempt at bringing 
 a board game to a console. This has, with few exception, been the biggest area of crap on consoles 
 dating back to the Atari 2600. Please don't lump this in with that crowd, as Scene It is genuinely 
 fun and works so well that you will find yourself playing it much longer than you might initially 
 think.
  
  Scene It has been on the shelves for some time, incorporating a trivia board game slash dvd based 
 multimedia trivia for some time now. With its start on the 360, it comes packaged with four unique 
 buzzer controllers and tons of content, which makes for plenty of trivia based gaming that is fun 
 for just about anyone that likes movies.
  
  This is movie trivia, so if you are violently opposed to trivia games in general, stop reading 
 and go back to your shooter. For those of you that like trivia, but are not crazy about it, you 
 will like this more than you think. The format of the game allows for you to guess well at things 
 you don't know anything about, as long as you pay attention. Trivia hounds will still blow you 
 out of the water, and as many of the games are time based, so you might want to bone up on your 
 reading comprehension. Trivia aside, if you just like movies, this should work for you as well. 
 
  
  I was concerned that the interface would be hard to use, but the menus are easy to navigate, and 
 the game play itself is immediately evident. Thats where this game shines, and is what I primarily 
 recommend it for: Party Game. Bring your friends over and play, because everyone will have fun 
 and since the learning curve is so easy, no one will get frustrated and want to quit early. 
  
  The games audio and video presentation is great. The announcer is present throughout, but rarely 
 annoying. The video quality of the movie clips is good, and the overall back lot movie studio theme 
 works well. There are a couple of modes to play, and while not deep in options, the streamlined 
 nature of the game works well for group gaming, where you rarely want to spend more than a couple 
 of minutes setting up a game. Load times are pretty short, and the game has a nice sense of humor 
 to it. After a round, the players scores are shown and the game hands out medals to the players 
 with the shortest time answering, most correct in a row, ect. The game is genuinely fun, and production 
 values and trivia are handled and written well with few exceptions.
  
  Best of all, the packaged buzzer controllers are nice and well made. They feel like a first party 
 device in make and use, and if they didn't use a separate IR adapter, you would think they were 
 directly from Microsoft. The game works nicely with them, and the range and reliability is high. 
 Using them to log in your profile and manipulate the game is great. Considering you get the four 
 controllers with the game for a standard game price point, the value is high. 
  
  Given that there is a good deal of expected downloadable content promised, this game should have 
 longer legs than those of its ilk have had in the past. It should take you a long time to start 
 seeing repeats, and the creative nature of many of the games helps as well. 
  
  So, if you like party games, trivia, movies, friends, or any combination of the above, pick this 
 up. Your non-gamer significant other will like it, and there are few other games like it for your 
 360. Its nice to see this concept finally working well enough to wholly recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j2johnson
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I never would have guessed that this little box which has stolen so many of my days and nights 
 (Splinter Cell, GRAW, R6: Vegas, CoD, etc...) could possibly be the source of so much entertainment 
 for a whole group of people... really loud, competitive people (and maybe a little drunk too) . 
 If you're looking for a little help setting off your next party, I highly recommend picking up 
 Scene It: LCA for the Xbox 360. Be sure to get the bundle that includes the 4 game controllers. 
 They're perfectly designed for the game with a big ring-in pad at the top. Just be prepared to 
 explain to your neighbors and the police that all the screaming is actually over a game and that 
 no one is actually killing anyone. Oh, and if you live with your girlfriend/wife, then prepare 
 to loose your 360 after she plays Scene It. Don't fight it, just go get another TV & 360 and stick 
 them in another room, if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  With the success of traditional games like Uno, Backgammon and Poker on the X-Box Live Arcade the 
 past few years, it was only a matter of time until a game like Scene It? made its way to the 360. 
 Packed with over 1,800 movie, music and pop-culture questions and four wireless controllers, the 
 game is definitely a bargain and is arguably the best party game on the system.
  
  Anyone that's ever played the original DVD-based board game knows how fun Scene It? is, especially 
 with a few friends. Now, the same great game is available on your X-Box 360, but with a few tweaks 
 this time around that makes it much more enjoyable.
  
  For example, the original game had a habit of repeating questions after a few plays and as a result, 
 made the game feel repetitive and stale. Not the case in Scene It? for the 360. After every round, 
 the computer saves the questions used, so you won't see them again until every other question available 
 has been used. With over 1,800 questions, it'll take a long time before the game gets old.
  
  Also helping the game are the wireless controllers that come prepackaged. Allowing up to four 
 people to play, these controllers make the gamer feel like their on a game show, rather than on 
 a couch in front of the TV. They are also extremely comfortable and are easy to use, making the 
 game accessible for anyone in the mood to have a good time.
  
  Speaking of having a good time, the game has a variety of modes that will make sure every gamer 
 enjoys playing. Depending on how long you want to play, the game offers a shorter, three round 
 mode, which takes about a half hour to complete and a longer five round mode that could take up 
 to an hour and a half, depending on how many people are playing. While some may argue that there 
 could have been more gameplay modes, more importantly, an online one, no one will be getting bored 
 through their first dozen or so plays with the game. Gameplay like that isn't found often in many 
 party games.
  
  However, the greatest part of Scene It? are the questions. Ranging on topics like the silent movie 
 era to new movies like 300 and The Simpson's, this game will appeal to your pop culture aficionado 
 as much as it will your teenage sister. That kind of versatility just isn't present on a system 
 like the 360, which caters more to hardcore gamers. 
  
  Simply put, Scene It? is a breath of fresh air on the 360 and is a must own for anyone looking 
 for a great party game or something different to play.
  
  -by Patrick Hickey Jr. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Scene It? is a fairly good game as far as I'm concerned. While this review obviously can't cover 
 much, because it is quite literally the board game of "Scene It?" in video game format, I can cover 
 the basics. Of course I'll go over Gameplay, Graphics, Sound, and Value. I'll remove my final comments 
 section since this is a game only people who really know there movies should play (I'll cover this 
 in a bit) .
  
  Pros
  -Easy to pick-up
  -Addictive if you like movies
  -Sticks to movies and doesn't veer off
  -Fairly good deal for $60
  -Transitions well enough
 
  
  Cons
  -Not accessible to casual movie-goers
  -No difficulty option
  -Can't turn off the announcer
  -Can't skip the introduction sequence to each game type
  -Some 
 game types just aren't fair, and as such, the multiple answers
  -Sequentials is terrible
  -The 4 "Big Button" controllers use batteries and cannot be recharged
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay 
 is very simplistic and addictive. I havn't played with the 4 controllers, but the layout is simple 
 enough and they hold well so it's a good offer they included along with the game. Throughout the 
 game you'll go through a variety of types tasking you with answering correctly. This is annoying 
 in some places because it asks you questions not everybody knows, like how many Oscars that movie 
 one. I respect the fact it's a movie-based trivia game, but maybe they should have added difficulty 
 options. As it is now, the game itself isn't very accessible to just casual movie-goers, and more 
 towards people who are middle-aged and know a lot about movies in general (Oscars, actors, what 
 time movies came out) . Some of the game types are outrageously hard, like Sequentials where you 
 have to put 4 movies in order of when they came out which sounds easy, but try doing that yourself. 
 Also, the time restricts you a bit, already counting down your points and time as you're still 
 reading a lengthy question or surveying the answers. In all respects, it needs to score differently 
 than just time. Overall the game is great but needs a bit of a patch-up for it's transition to 
 the video game format. If anything, it's a really great party game, and it's great to watch the 
 movie clips as well.
  
  Graphics: This game doesn't focus on the spectacular graphics, and I understand it shouldn't, but 
 for the few graphical things in the game (like the same character you've seen before walking into 
 a movie theatre) could have at least had some time put into it. Locations for each game type are 
 always the same (respectively to their rightful game type) but get tiring fast.
  
  Sound: The announcer is annoying. The movie clips are nice and crisp, if not on the lower side 
 in which you'll have the announcer yelling but the movie clips still very hard to hear. Otherwise, 
 everything works.
  
  Value: For $60 you get 4 controllers (which is great but requires batteries) and a game. You may 
 just want to try it before you buy it, unless you're a big movie-goer or party host, in which case 
 I'd recommend buying it. If you're all drunk during the party though, that's not the type of game 
 this was made for since you have to pay careful attention. The achievements are 15% easy, 50% normal, 
 and 35% hard. If you know your movies, all the achievements are fairly easy then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmwade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  This game is a brilliant party game, and a must buy for christmas. All the family will be playing, and 
 gamers new and old will enjoy this fantastic game. Newcomers to scene it can jump straight in. 
 The achievements make you want to play more and give it more "umph". The game is easy to get into 
 but you need to know your movie knowledge.
  
  The bad side is the question time which may seem to drag on, but you cant be too picky! A must 
 buy for xbox 360 owners and i can tell its going to be a huge xmas party game
  
  9.5/10
  
  superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SailorAide
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Scene It? Lights, Camera, Action is the first true party game for the Xbox 360. Anyone that has 
 a love of movies is certain to find this an entertaining and humor-filled way to spend an evening 
 with friends and family. There are plenty of questions and categories and the game keeps track 
 for you so that you won't be seeing the same questions repeatedly. If you love to compete or even 
 just like having those bragging rights amongst your family and friends, this is a game for you. 
 
  
  I must say that the only negative thing about the game is the lack of online play. This would have 
 made the game a 10 without a doubt. Hopefully in future versions we will see online play and leaderboards 
 incorporated, but it by no means de-values the overall experience of Scene It? Lights, Camera, 
 Action.
  
  This game is still an absolute must-buy in my opinion, this one is a home run, and hopefully will 
 not only be bettered with downloadable content but be the first of many more wonderful party games 
 for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelhulen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  My wife, my parents, and I played this the other night and had a blast! We have played the standard 
 DVD-based board game version quite a bit and were pleased to see such a wide variety of challenges. 
 The scoring system is fun, which rewards fast responders, and has a neat bonus system at the end 
 of each level, even for the worst player. The buzzer controllers ensure there is no dispute as 
 to who answered first, and it is nice having the game "host" guide you through the game to each 
 challenge without having to roll dice and move game pieces along a board. The quality of the video 
 clips range between DVD quality and HD, which is a nice bonus, though you don't get to see them 
 very often.
  
  All in all, Scene It? is a fun party-type game that even my wife can get into 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjodi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  If you have ever played the DVD version and enjoyed it then you cannot help but get this game. 
 Great value with 4 controllers and the game for 60 dollars. This is the first time my buddy and 
 our wives all played a game together on the 360. 1,800 questions to start and it remembers puzzles 
 you've already seen. On the DVD we were getting repeats after the first dozen or so games. Buzzing 
 in eliminates any arguments and the variety of puzzles are great. XBOX live should bring plenty 
 of replay value with all of the other Scene It games that are out there on DVD. If you like movies 
 and having fun with 3 other friends I don't see how you could not love this game. The only draw 
 back is no online play. I don't know why this wasn't included. Guess that is how they'll rope us 
 in for Scene It? 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  The Good: Lot's of very interesting trivia questions and various different forms, often humerous 
 announcer, comes with four buzzer controllers for a standard game price, randomises questions based 
 on what a profile has seen before.
  
  The Bad: If you don't have four players, you have to wait for time to expire for every question, 
 graphics aren't the best, no online multiplayer.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  It seems like in 2007, Microsoft is doing it's best to try to give the 360 some more family friendly 
 options so that the system won't only be known for ultra violent shooters and action games for 
 mature audiences. One such a game is Scene-It? Lights, Camera Action, which is based on the popular 
 DVD board game series. The consept of Scene-It? is very simple: you answer questions about movies 
 in a variety of different ways. The original edition used a board game and a DVD, but the 360 version 
 uses a game disc and four buzzer controllers, which come with Scene-It?
  
  The gameplay is slightly different from the board game. It's set up more like a game show, allowing 
 players to use their controllers to answer questions, or to buzz in before other players do. This 
 is extremely enjoyable to game show affectionados, especially when you are playing with some competitive 
 or cocky friends. You collect points by answering questions correctly. In a long game, you loose 
 points for incorrect answers after round 1, so you must be careful and really know the answer if 
 you want to succeed. The variety of questions is pretty good. You can have anything from finding 
 a movie based on a description, or by picking out what prop is missing from an image of a movie. 
 The game has both recient and golden oldies questions, so movie buffs from every era can enjoy 
 the insanity of the game. There is also an announcer, who often comments about who is doing well, 
 and who needs to hit the cutting room floor. Most of his comments are pretty funny and add a lot 
 to the gameplay.
  
  After the majority of the game is up, you go into The Final Cut round, which can change the entire 
 outcome of a game. You are given a film clip and have to answer several questions about this clip. 
 There is no point penalty for incorrect answers, but you build up a multiplyer for each question 
 you get right in a row. If you can get a 10x multiplyer at the end of the round, the game might 
 have turned in your favor in the end. It's a very intense, you extremely enjoyable trivia game 
 that is a blast with four players.
  
  There are several game modes: Short Game, Long Game and Party Mode. Short game is a much shorter 
 version of the traditional game. For the board game, you simply shrink the board for a short game, 
 but for the 360 version, you just don't have as many rounds or questions to answer. Long Game is 
 the traditional way to play Scene-It? It might take an hour or two, but it's a blast none the less. 
 Party Mode is also a mode in Scene-It? that looks promising.
  
  I do have a few gripes with it, though. First, if you don't have four friends who often come over 
 to play with you, it's rather pointless. The game still plays like you have four players, but you 
 have to wait for time to expire for each question because there is no fourth player. This was an 
 unfortunate development desision that should not have made it into the final game. Second, there 
 isn't any online functionality at all. There might be some downloadable expansions or disc expansions 
 in the future, but no online play is supported in this version. Third is that the graphics are 
 cartoony, but kinda lame. Granted, you aren't expecting the visuals for a game like Scene-It? to 
 be spectacular, but they could have put a bit more effort into the visuals of this supposively 
 next gen game. 
  
  Overall, Scene-It? Lights, Camera, Action is a very enjoyable trivia and party game that will hopefully 
 spark more games of this genre and style to appear on the 360. It's an excellent start to a great 
 consept.
  
  Gameplay: Movie buffs rejoice, this trivia game is for you with tons of multiplayer options.
 
  
  Graphics: Nothing stellar, but you weren't expecting that, were you?
  
  Sound: Humerous announcer and excellent sound quality for the movie clips.
  
  Value: You get 
 the game and four conrollers for $60, which isn't a bad value.
  
  Final Thoughts: Haven't you "scene" this before? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  The game clearly states that this game does not support online muliplay. How could it when you 
 disc randomly chooses movies and questions? How would the 3 other people online get the exact same 
 random videos and questions as you?
  
  Scene It? is a great party game. My wife and I enjoyed playing this game for 2 hrs last night. 
 There are more than 1,800 questions so the game will never be the same twice. This is also another 
 great drinking game with your friends or family. Invite a girl over and enjoy some strip scene 
 it. Thats a good time right there!
  
  
  - New puzzle challenges: The Xbox 360 game includes more than 1,800 questions not seen before in 
 any other Scene It? game. It features five new types of puzzle challenge that are sure to keep 
 you guessing all night long. 
  
  - Game types: Enjoy "Credit Roll," where you guess the film based on the list of characters and 
 actors, "Child's Play," where you guess the name of the film based on a child's drawing of a film 
 scene, and "Quotables," where you are challenged to finish a famous line from a featured film. 
 In addition, all 21 puzzle types have been designed to provide the ultimate multiplayer experience 
 on Xbox 360. 
  
  - Big Button Pad: Scene It? Lights, Camera, Action is shipped with four new wireless Big Button 
 Pads, so each player has his or her own buzzer. Making games such as Scene It? more approachable 
 for all types of players, the Big Button Pad takes its inspiration from the game show buzzers of 
 yesteryear but uses the latest infrared technology to minimize the chances of an argument over 
 who answered first. 
  
  - Hi-def visuals: The game offers a wide assortment of movie clips in HD format, as well as hundreds 
 of stills and audio clips from your favorite films. 
  
  - Minimal repeats: The Xbox 360 version keeps track of questions that have already been asked and 
 minimizes repeats so you rarely get the same question twice. 
  
  
  Overall
  
  This is a really fun game with friends. Single player is a bit boring and the $59.99 price tag 
 is a bit steep.
  
  I rate this game:
  Single Player Score - 6.5
  Multiplayer Score - 8.75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 8, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I can't get past the first and main issue with this game. There is not online play. I bought this 
 game with the assumption that since it was Microsoft and would seem to be great online that it 
 would have online play. I looked for the ability to play this game online and it doesn't have it. 
 This game would probably get a really high score from me if it had online play available. Microsoft, 
 XBOX 360, XBOX LIVE. Well, doesn't it make sense that this game would have Online Play. Well, I 
 think so. So, no matter how great the game might be when I have enough friends over to play the 
 game, I can't rate this game any higher than a TWO since it doesn't have online play. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
