-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sega Rally Revo
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/driving/segarallyrevo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tracks deform and tear up to an amazing degree.
 Fantastic-looking cars and tracks.
 Lots of different cars to unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is a bit on the shallow side.
 Computer opponents are rather single-minded.
 Could have used more tracks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 358 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: SEGA Racing Std.
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The technology behind Sega Rally Revo is undeniably impressive and the driving is a good bit of 
 arcade fun, but the game's staying power is highly questionable. 

  Sega Rally Championship 2 for the Dreamcast was the last time North America saw a release of a 
 Sega Rally game, back in 1999. Now, eight years later, the franchise is back in Sega Rally Revo 
 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, and you may be shocked by how little things have changed. Sure, 
 the technology has leapt over a skyscraper or two, but when it comes down to the fundamental arcade 
 style of driving that this series was known for, Revo is like a visit from the past. This actually 
 feels like the sort of game you should be driving in some monolithic arcade cabinet, with powerslide-heavy 
 driving mechanics and physics that are geared decidedly toward keeping you moving forward and moving 
 fast at all times. Is it fun? Absolutely, though how long it will remain fun depends entirely on 
 how well you get on with the game's scant list of available tracks and modes.  

           Track deformation is Sega Rally Revo's big gimmick, and admittedly, it is pretty cool. 

  Your first impression of Sega Rally Revo is likely to be the one you'll keep all throughout your 
 time with the game, because for as much as things change in the game, they ultimately stay the 
 same. The second you get on a track, you'll know that this is pure arcade driving. Cars are incapable 
 of going off track, with invisible barriers causing vehicles to bounce off everything from trees 
 to minor shrubs. Tight, accurate, frequent powerslides are the name of the game, no matter what 
 surface you might be driving on. And there is a wide variety of surfaces on display. From mud-bogged 
 jungles to sandy beaches to the icy, snowy mountains, you'll encounter all manner of terrain as 
 you drive.  

  The terrain is more than window dressing. As drivers race around the track, they're digging up 
 the dirt and snow and whatever else, creating big tears in the track that will actually affect 
 your car's handling when you drive through them. This is where the game's one element of strategy 
 comes into play. These treads are often created over the ideal driving lines. So what do you do? 
 Drive through the harsher portions of the track to keep the proper line? Or take the less beaten 
 path and hope for the best?  

  As impressive as that notion is, it doesn't necessarily amount to a whole lot. You can get by either 
 way and still perform reasonably well. You'll certainly feel the difference in the track depending 
 on how torn up the surface is, especially if you're playing on the 360, where the force feedback 
 does an absolutely phenomenal job of differentiating the feel of each surface (PS3 owners may want 
 to invest in the Logitech driving wheel, or wait for the DualShock 3 to come around, as the lack 
 of force feedback is a real bummer in this version) . It's arguably more important to just get to 
 know the tracks and make precise turns than it is to pay a whole lot of attention to where the 
 torn up track is, especially if you choose the off-road setup prior to a race; the other option, 
 "road," gives you higher speed on flat surfaces, but is ultimately less useful overall. Getting 
 to know the tracks probably won't take you too long, as there are only 23 of them spread across 
 five different environments, and several of those are reverse versions of existing tracks.  

  Getting a feel for each track takes some time, and when you pull off those really tight, accurate 
 slides around snow-laden turns, it's a highly satisfying feeling. However, the challenge isn't 
 all reliant on your skill, at least not in the offline game. The computer opponents in Sega Rally 
 Revo are a tough lot, almost irritatingly so. The main issue with the game's artificial intelligence 
 is that it's severely rigid. AI drivers stubbornly refuse to move off their racing lines, even 
 when you're banging into them at high speeds. And yet, on the flipside, they have no issue bopping 
 into you and knocking you into a corner the second you try to pass them. The second they do, they 
 move right back onto their natural line and stay put. The AI also has a tendency to just decide 
 when it wants to win, often blazing by you at crazy speeds not long before the end of a race. Once 
 you get good at cornering, you can start taking the AI to task, but small screw-ups usually amount 
 to you getting hosed for the rest of the race.  

           The game's singular focus on constant powersliding may drive some people insane.      
 

  One thing that might stick out to some of you about how Revo plays is just how similar it is to 
 the older Sega Rally games. Apart from the dynamic track deformation, Revo really does feel just 
 like old-school Sega Rally, and that's both a blessing and a curse. Fans of the older games are 
 likely to get giddy the second they start powersliding like a nutjob around crazy turns. By the 
 same token, with so many advances in the racing genre over the last couple of years, Revo can't 
 help but feel a bit like old hat at this point. It's fun, certainly, but not exactly anything special, 
 and the hyper-floaty feel of the cars is probably going to drive some people out of their minds. 
 It's almost as if the game is relying solely on the deformable track mechanic to lift its somewhat 
 archaic driving mechanics up to the level of games like Dirt and Motorstorm. But that feature isn't 
 really enough to carry a game all by its lonesome. Again, the gameplay is fun, but in a real blast-from-the-past 
 kind of way.  

  Sega Rally Revo offers a few different modes of play. Apart from the standard quick race mode, 
 there is a time trial mode where you can try to beat the best leaderboard times from around the 
 world. The cool thing about this mode is that after any race, you have the option to upload your 
 ghost car data to the online server, and in turn, you can download any players' ghost data to race 
 against while you try to beat their time.  

  The main mode is the championship mode. There are three championship tiers, each tied to the three 
 car classes in the game. You start out with the premier league, which consists of standard rally 
 rides like the Subaru WRX STi and Mitsubishi Lancer Evo IX, then move on to the modified league, 
 with cars like the VW Golf GTI and Grande Punto Rally, then finally hit the masters league, and 
 drive rally classics such as the Lancia Super Delta HF Integrale and Lancia Stratos. Each league 
 has several unlockable cars as well, many of which are often much faster than the default rides 
 (though at the same time, often more challenging to handle) . With there being such a limited number 
 of tracks, you end up repeating a lot of them again and again as you progress through each championship, 
 though with the differences in speed between car classes, each step upward often results in a somewhat 
 different-feeling race.  

  Finally, there is multiplayer. Two players can play head-to-head in split-screen play, and up to 
 six can race online. The online options aren't terribly deep, with just the basic ranked and player 
 matches available. However, when creating player matches, the host can design a custom championship 
 of sorts, laying out an order of up to six different tracks to play through in a row. In both versions 
 of the game, the online mode performed pretty well, with only minor bouts of lag that caused opponent 
 cars to skip around the track a bit.  

           Revo might not be exceedingly deep, but it sure is pretty.      

  Graphically, Sega 
 Rally Revo is extremely impressive, thanks in no small part to that dynamic track deformation feature. 
 All the tire tracks are left in real time, and the sheer dynamics of how the terrain deforms over 
 time are a bit staggering. Along the way, your car will get absolutely caked in mud and dirt, until 
 you hit a puddle, at which point you'll see a great deal of that dirt wash right off. Whether dirty 
 or clean, the car models look incredible. Though there aren't a ton of cars in the game, each featured 
 model is gorgeously detailed. The one slight disappointment is that there's no manner of damage 
 modeling in the game. While no one would expect anything too crazy in an arcade-oriented game like 
 this, some basic body damage would have been a nice touch. Incidentally, you won't see much graphical 
 difference between the PS3 and 360 versions of the game. The frame rate mostly stays at a steady 
 30 frames per second on both, and there's little difference in car or track detail between the 
 two. The only real point of contention between the two would be the aforementioned rumble capabilities 
 of the 360.  

  Sega Rally Revo is nothing revelatory, but it is a more-than-solid arcade racer with plenty of 
 familiar licensed cars, some tight and challenging track designs, and enjoyable online options. 
 You can't help but feel that, with all the great racers that have recently hit both systems, Revo 
 is just a bit behind the curve. As enjoyable as the gameplay is, its narrow focus on constant powersliding 
 and lack of track variety may wear thin on some players. Still, this is a game worth at least trying 
 for any fan of arcade racers, especially if you dug any of the older Sega Rally games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  What to say about Sega Rally Revo? Well, its graphics really take full advantage of the xbox 360 
 engine, the look is awesome! the scenery is to die for and the tracks are incredibly innovative, 
 the vehicals are very realistic and behave pretty similar to the real things. Audio is just right 
 and the co-driver is a god sent! In my opinion Sega Rally is lacking in different tracks, most races 
 are played out over the same ones over and over again, the tracks are beautiful but get old after 
 the sixth race on the same one. I think the cars should be able to be customised, not only the 
 unlockable colours but being able to add and remove wings, spoilers etc as well as being able to 
 apply your own paint design. And the thing that I'd definatly want changed is being put in three 
 races at a time, so you get first on one but second on the other, your overal score goes down, 
 so you have to do it all again! how fustrating! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xlmfx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 8:18 am PT
Review:  The graphics are fair decent, (i'm using a LCD tv, no HD for me) and the controls are really easy 
 to get used to. the handling of the cars on your first race, might seem a little too responsive, 
 but quickly get manageable.
  
  biggest let down was the offline, single console, multiplayer... it has a vertical splitscreen!! 
 (who makes a racing game with a vertical splitscreen, it doesn't work) and the camera angle messes 
 up too, it doesn't follow the car or the track when going around the corner.
  
  But as a single player game (i can imagine the online multiplayer will be very similar) is rather 
 good, a very enjoyable game. with decent graphics.
  
  the track deformation technology is a very cool addition as well.. race once and the next time 
 you race the same track, it is still the way you left it.. in some cases, a complete mess! I like 
 it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alizerothree
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is super arcadey. From the limited number of tracks, to the invisible bumpers set on 
 the sides of the track to help steer your way, it's a full blown 100% arcade experience. Only thing 
 is you don't need quarters. :)
  
  
  It's not a bad racing game at all, but it doesn't offer the depth and features of other games such 
 as DIRT, but it does not need to because it is meant to have a strong arcade feel. 
  
  The cars are super sloshy and you can pretty much powerslide and drift any turn easily. The tracks 
 do get harder and you will be forced to actually brake and use the ebrake from time to time, but 
 it's definitely fun sliding around corners. It's strangely addicting, especially once you get the 
 feel for it.
  
  Sega Rally is a beautiful game in my opinion, and the deformable tracks are an innovation to the 
 rally and racing genre. It's very cool seeing your car manage to go through all that muck and dirt 
 left over from the other cars.
  
  Definitely worth your money if you get it off Amazon. ~15 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngloNubian91
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  What to say about Sega Rally Revo? Well, its graphics really take full advantage of the xbox 360 
 engine, the look is awesome! the scenery is to die for and the tracks are incredibly innovative, 
 the vehicals are very realistic and behave pretty similar to the real things. Audio is just right 
 and the co-driver is a god sent! In my opinion Sega Rally is lacking in different tracks, most races 
 are played out over the same ones over and over again, the tracks are beautiful but get old after 
 the sixth race on the same one. I think the cars should be able to be customised, not only the 
 unlockable colours but being able to add and remove wings, spoilers etc as well as being able to 
 apply your own paint design. And the thing that I'd definatly want changed is being put in three 
 races at a time, so you get first on one but second on the other, your overal score goes down, 
 so you have to do it all again! how fustrating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 24, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  If I had paid full price for this game I would have compared it unfavourably to Colin McCrae DiRT 
 but as it is I picked it up brand new in it's cellophane for less than 10 I have to say I am more 
 than pleased with my purchase.
  The graphics have a nice cartoon-like appeal and the surface detoriation though perhaps a bit gimmicky 
 does add to the game.
  Gameplay wise the game is actually rather hard and does require skill but is simple enough to keep 
 going back too in small doses. This is a definite keeper for me and I will probably gleen a few 
 odd hours enjoyment from it every now and again when I feel like something different.
  It could be accused of being repetitive but in my opinion must games are by nature repetitive. 
 I do feel more could have done to flesh out the structure of the events with all of them appearing 
 to be three races, some variation would have been nice. I found the AI very much in the Ridge Racer 
 style in as much as you knew by your position how far away the leader would be and a race was a 
 question of overtaking them one by one, you weren't presented with any surprises. Still this beats 
 the elastic band style of AI as given to us by the likes of Motorstorm hands down. (Personally 
 it killed Motorstorm for me as it ended up more a game of luck than skill and gave you no incentive 
 to bother on the the first two and a half laps as it made no difference how well you drove until 
 the end)
  The sound track could have definately been better, it did give the arcade feel but we don't necessarily 
 want that, now I think about what has happened to customisable soundtracks enabling your own choice 
 of music, have I been not noticing them or have they stopped being used?
  More customisation would have been nice or just the ability to change tyre choices between races 
 but then if it did this it would be less an arcade racer and more of a simulation which would totally 
 be missing the point.
  In short, especially considering the price, a very decent fun aracde racer which will provide entertainment 
 for years to come. If only in small doses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snarple_basic
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Easily one of my favorite racing games on the 360. If you played the old Sega Rally games you'll 
 right away notice that the drifting style has been kept. Its tons of fun whipping around corners. 
 If you haven't played the Sega Rally series there might be a little learning curve on how best 
 to steer your car around those corners. Once you figure the best way you'll be in love with the 
 feel. 
  
  The graphics are just breath taking, very colorful and real at the same time. Lot's of life in 
 the way the tracks come off looking and feeling. You'll notice birds, planes & helicopters flying 
 around, animals hanging out in there natural enviroment, and the mud just comes off looking soooo 
 good you'll just want to roll around in it! 
  
  Now for the GeoDeformation effect it really shows how well its used in this game. This is the one 
 effect that makes this game feel better then Dirt. Yes i know this is an arcade racer and Dirt 
 is a sim racer so you really cant compare the 2 but the GeoDeformation really brings off road racing 
 to another notch. You'll notice on mud tracks during the last lap those mud tracks really start 
 getting deep and if you hit them in the wrong direction you can get your self in a bit of trouble. 
 Then you feel the way a snow track feels and you'll notice having someone in front of you making 
 tracks in the snow can lead you to go threw the track with much more ease, naturally this means 
 that the precious 3rd lap will feel much easier then the 1st lap and this really makes for a ton 
 of fun, it just feels like your working at smoothing that track out, which is something I have 
 never seen in a racing game. Sega sure did kick it up a notch with this GeoDeformation effect, 
 the feel of the track really makes you think how you want to hit those corners that your coming 
 up on.
  
  For an arcade racer it really doesn't get any more amazing then this. Its just really a top notch 
 racing experience. If your a Dirt fan you shouldn't feel like you need to take sides, pick this 
 up and put it right next to Dirt as a awesome alternative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarsOfWarr
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Now I know this game is supposed to feel arcadey and the loose controls are there on purpose but 
 come on. It feels like I'm watching my 2 year old cousin zoom his toy cars around the kitchen floor. 
 The graphics pale in comparison to every racing game on the 360 (besides PGR3) and the terrain 
 deformity doesn't do much to affect your driving through the courses besides the appearance, and 
 that's quite the letdown because I was hoping for some intersting racing from that. Honestly I 
 don't know where I got the 3.5 points I gave this game because besides the fact that it's entertaining 
 for a race or two to drive around holding down the gas non-stop, it loses it's fun within 15 minutes 
 of popping it into your console. In the end, I would definitely not recommend this game to anyone 
 without a mindless 7 year old that they need to entertain for a few hours.
  
  360 owners, go buy DiRT
  PS3 owners, Motorstorm's best for you
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alimn1984
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  SEGA RALLY was & is and will be always the best Rally game of the world,
  this game was always a revolution in the field of Driving/Racing games & the new SEGA RALLY is 
 proving that it's still a REVO (olution) ,
  even big game developers like "Codemasters" have cited SEGA RALLY as a strong influence on their 
 Colin McRae Rally game.
  In another word it's the leader of rally games and new features such as "revolutionary surface 
 and environment deformation"
  plus it's real new-generation graphics & realistic game play experience can easily prove that it's 
 not only a REVO but it's also a leader!.
  Overall in all genres there are some games that real gamers shouldn't easily miss them & SEGA RALLY 
 is one of those game in it's genre.
  With buying SEGA RALLY REVO you're going to have a next-gen arcade racing experience in your living 
 room, 
  Don't forget to check those Tech Demos about some of those revolutionary features from the video 
 section of Official Web Site.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cratus79
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  This game, while it starts out with a lot of promise from it's beautiful graphics and the mud accumulation 
 that is added to your vehicle as you go along, just doesn't have a whole lot of substance. The 
 racing feels like your racing on a greasy plate and not the same messy or gritty feel of a track 
 that you would have in Dirt . Options such as types of races and types of vehicles are few and 
 far in between. The controls just don't hack it, If you want a game that doesn't feel like a rehashed 
 version of an arcade racing game that you might have played before over ten years ago, I recommend 
 that you pass on this game and get either Dirt or Motorstorm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thoma7500
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:31 am PT
Review:  sega rally revo review
  
  CAREER
  loads of different races thats a joy to drive on and you must compete through all the races to 
 get to the finals and keep racing, however the game has top AI that are far too good at times this 
 is in the later races and be prepared for some frustrating races that may make you throw the controller 
 out your window but overall the career combined with the stuff you unlock is solid.
  
  multiplayer
  
  possibly the most boring multiplayer on any system because its not tense its 
 just race and race around the track with no drama and no sense of occasion just an add on. 
  
  verdict
  
  a very fun game with the deformable technology but dirt has it beaten as a rally 
 racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robthehomer
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 3:22 am PT
Review:  You know, this game shouldn't have worked. In terms of next gen evolution this is a dinosaur, a 
 relic of a bygone videogame age. We have all moved on to expect more - more realism, more detail, 
 more control etc etc. When something like Sega Rally comes along with its stubborn refusal to adhere 
 to the modern world you have to admire Sega for the brass to actually go ahead with it in the first 
 place.
  
  The result is a refreshing throwback to a time when videogames were all about the fun, the excitement, 
 the arcade simplicity of the experience and that is in no way a criticism. 
  
  Games these days can sometimes require unprecendented levels of commitment to gain the most from 
 them, I for one never get on with Oblivion as I was overwhelmed by the sheer size of it, that and 
 I just didn't have time to devote myself to it in the way the game seemed to desire. I often just 
 want to sit down and play a quick 20 minute session just for the hell of it, and this is where 
 Sega Rally fits the bill beautifully. I'm not a mechanic, I don't want to fiddle around with gear 
 ratios and suspension set ups. In Sega Rally you just pick your track, pick your car, your tyre 
 and you're off - simple, straightforward and it just gives you less to think about the car and 
 more about your actual racing, which surely is the point.
  
  But even with this simple, bare bones design the racing is just deep enough to mean you will still 
 be playing weeks after your first powerslide. The much lauded track deformation does make a difference 
 and is more than just visual garnish, although its effect is more prevalent on some levels than 
 others, on easier tracks the deformation will make little difference which is somewhat disappointing 
 given this is the major selling point of the game. 
  
  The lack of realism doesn't matter as the gameplay is focused on the pure fun of rally driving, 
 honestly the first time I played this I just came away with a stupid grin on my face as its just 
 such a thrill to throw these cars around the tracks with gay abandon. You don't have to be a driving 
 god to get round in a decent time but there is enough here to let you know that despite the liberties 
 taken with invisible walls to bounce off of and no damage penalties there is enough depth in the 
 racing that mastery will still take some time.
  
  The game happens to look and sound gorgeous as well. This is glorious Alice In Wonderland technicolour, 
 be sure to turn the contrast down to a reasonable level or else you could end up being sick from 
 the eye candy on display. The little trackside touches have also returned from Sega Rally of old, 
 I especially enjoy the second Canyon level where a group of Red Arrows do various manouvres as 
 you race round only to fly low directly over your head at the start of lap 3. Again these just 
 add to the spectactle and the fun, there is no quarter given to realism here just about giving 
 you as much opportunity to enjoy yourself as possible.
  
  Whilst the number of tracks is not exactly stingy its hardly generous either and this is perhaps 
 the game's biggst flaw - I can only surmise the technical muscle needed to alter the track in real-time 
 in order to accomodate the deformation mechanic renders less time & space for more tracks? In any 
 case, it is certainly a bit of a disappointment that the game has to resort to the old cheap tactic 
 of reversing track layout in order to bolster the number of courses (but I suppose you could argue 
 that is in-keeping with the retro nature of the game anyway!)
  
  Sega Rally certainly isn't for everyone, it certainly isn't for your hardcore racer but those should 
 be well-catered for by the likes of Dirt and Fordza. This is for those of a slightly older (and 
 in my own case, slightly lazier) generaton to remind themselves how it used to be done in the old 
 days. This fills a happy gap in the market for those who just want a fun, forgiving, but ultimately 
 challenging rally game that you can stick on for 20 minutes or two hours that adheres to the adage 
 that games should be fun and frivolous above anything else.
  
  Realism be dammed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastheace
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  my first impression was that this was just going to be another racing game how wrong i was. when 
 i played it was amazing when i first saw the track deform it was refreshing and when the mud got 
 washed off of my car it made me chuckle. this game will frustrate you many times i turned it off 
 for another game as i got cheated out of a full 30 points because of one puddle, but you will always 
 want to play it again the next day. onto the graphics they were amazing too the way the dirt encrusts 
 it self on your bumber is cool and how the thick sludge looks as you raid through it.
  it could have used a few more tracks but the unlockable cars are a nice touch, and this is how 
 to bring back a classic well done
  
  TO SEGA FOR BRING BACK MY FAVORIT GAME BACK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mba4931627
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 26, 2007 9:51 pm PT
Review:  It's nearly impossible to control the cars on these tracks. The natural feedback between car and 
 road is completely unrealistic. The cars will slide wildely on asphalt with the slightest movement 
 of the controls. Driving on open dirt or mud is completely wild. It has no natural movement compared 
 with real driving. For such nice graphics and attention to detail, it is quite surprising that 
 the driving controls are so overly sensitive. It is nearly impossible to recover from over- or 
 understeer because the cars will slide and twist without any corelation to the real world. It is 
 completely unnatural to dovetail and spin wildly in thick mud, which should naturally drag the 
 car down. To me, it is almost like the cars' controls are completely unassociated with the track. 
 The slightest touches cause the car to turn, but the cars do not right themselves to center, as 
 real cars do in the real world. For such a modern game, I found the controls to be disappointing 
 and highly disconnected from the track. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/microsoft/games/segarallyrev_360. html? var1=sc3
  
  Arcade-style racing has been around for a long time, and numerous gaming franchises promote it, 
 including Midway's Cruis'n and Rush, Criterion's Burnout and EA's Need For Speed. The genre has 
 certainly evolved, both in the arcade and on consoles, especially with increasingly more powerful 
 technology being developed. SEGA, in that case, happens to be one that has taken advantage of such 
 capable hardware, especially when it comes to the recent revival of their rally series. SEGA Rally 
 Revo is about racing all over terrain that can be altered in real-time, and it's damn good at that.
 
  
  Let's ignore the strange title [we're hoping that Revo isn't really short for Revolution] and focus 
 on what makes the game a solid racing experience. The presentation is surprisingly simple in that 
 every mode and player selection is provided merely by pictures. This is what also makes the game 
 lack a bit of depth, since Championship and Multiplayer are the only options you're bound to care 
 about. The package is split into three difficulties: Premier, Modified and Masters; and within 
 each, there is a series of competitions and a selection of vehicles from various manufacturers. 
 While it's strange that the car variety isn't exactly extensive, it also doesn't matter because 
 you're only picking for looks. But hey, at least the car models [and environments they race in] 
 look great, especially with their slick, reflective surfaces. Unlike virtually every other racer 
 out there, the performance of Revo's cars extends only to their four rubbers, and yes I'm speaking 
 of tires. There are two types, off and on road, and their strengths and weaknesses are pretty self-explanatory. 
 Why is it then that it's never worth using the road tires? Every track you encounter in the game 
 features way more off-road terrain than tarmac surface. But of course your AI opponents seem to 
 use the road tires in truly unfair fashion, more on that later.
  
  Ok, so far it would seem that I've done nothing but point out odd design choices and complain, 
 which I won't deny being true, however, Revo has a lot to offer for racing gaming enthusiasts. 
 The first of which is the absolutely awesome GeoDeformation engine. Feel free to correct me if 
 I'm wrong, but I do believe that SEGA is the first to pull off real-time track deformation that 
 also stays that way during the duration of a race. This accomplishment is virtually the only reason 
 to be attracted to Rally Revo, but thankfully it's done extremely well. It doesn't matter where 
 you race [the Safari sands, Alpine snow, muddy Tropics or the dusty twists and turns of the Canyon] , 
 the roads tear apart, and remain that way. It's especially neat how the environment affects the 
 tire divots, like if the ground is wet or snow-covered, which results in previously unseen mud 
 on the next lap, or a smooth sheet of ice. Your ride also eventually becomes caked in junk, including 
 the various plant life decorating the sides of the track.
  
  GeoDeformation also plays a part in your racing strategy, since the tire tread paths usually denote 
 the best route to take, but there's nothing keeping you from traveling over fresh earth. Just don't 
 expect your computer opponents to be all over the place, which proves to be annoying since they 
 don't like to budge when you bump into them, giving them a rather unfair advantage since they can 
 already race perfectly. Those road tires give them aggravating speed bursts too, rushing ahead 
 of you at the worst times.
  
  Easily the most satisfying aspect of Rally Revo is pulling off that picture-perfect power-slide 
 around a lengthy bend. Winning a race photo-finish style also ranks up there, but since the name 
 of this game is drifting, learning the intricacies of executing a seamless power-slide feels great 
 in every sense. Unfortunately the unbalanced difficulty makes championships too easy and too hard. 
 For the first half of the game, placing first isn't entirely taxing, especially because the beginning 
 tracks are pretty straightforward. However, once you reach the Modified circuit and beyond, you 
 start to notice the unforgiving AI. It already sucks that you start in the back for every race 
 [even if you took first in the previous one] , but it also blows that you can never accelerate faster 
 that your opponents, not to mention they already seem to know what they're doing, and they randomly 
 pass you at times. Heed my words SEGA, when you immediately put the player at a disadvantage, the 
 fun tends to drop a level or two. Don't let that completely discourage you though, because if you 
 don't take losing well, it makes it that much more fulfilling to rub your opponents' faces into 
 the dirt when you can finally outperform them.
  
  On the audio side of things, there's some really unnoticeable music, at least while you're racing 
 [I played my own most of the time] , but the sound effects are kickin'. The engines rumble with 
 authenticity, tires dig into the earth very realistically and smacking into another car is that 
 always pleasing metal-on-metal action. Heck, even smaller things like trekking through puddles 
 of water or hearing the roar of your engine as you pass over a thick bed of ice add to the experience. 
 But why SEGA, did I hear the series' trademark, Game Over, Yeah!!! in the demo, but I haven't heard 
 it once playing the actual game?
  
  Finally, and what is usually a big draw for arcade racers, the multiplayer. SEGA Rally Revo might 
 as well not even have it, which is not pleasant for me to say. Two people can partake of the Head-to-Head 
 mode, which offers a vertical split-screen competition, but seriously, who cares to race one-on-one? 
 One wins, one loses, and the loser can't even finish the race since apparently the game is too 
 impatient for that. The online aspect doesn't fare much better, and that's because I haven't experienced 
 it yet. That isnt due to not having access, but because I haven't seen any matches taking place. 
 This is especially brow-raising since the game first landed in Europe, where the sport is worshipped 
 right next to football (our soccer) . What that means for the game [or SEGA for that matter] , we 
 don't know.
  
  Certainly the likes of Burnout or even FlatOut are plenty capable of giving hardcore racing gamers 
 their usual fill for a while. But there comes a time when people crave something new and different. 
 Well, after a dead period of eight years, SEGA has finally delivered with a wholly unique perspective 
 on arcade racing [due to the GeoDeformation engine] , but inserting it into the sport of rallying 
 nonetheless. Sure Americans could give less of a damn since football and baseball are the dominant 
 forms of active physical entertainment, but hey, it certainly doesn't hurt to expand our horizons 
 now does it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mosher92
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  my first impression was that this was just going to be another racing game how wrong i was. when 
 i played it was amazing when i first saw the track deform it was refreshing and when the mud got 
 washed off of my car it made me chuckle. this game will frustrate you many times i turned it off 
 for another game as i got cheated out of a full 30 points because of one puddle, but you will always 
 want to play it again the next day. onto the graphics they were amazing too the way the dirt encrusts 
 it self on your bumber is cool and how the thick sludge looks as you raid through it.
  it could have used a few more tracks but the unlockable cars are a nice touch, and this is how 
 to bring back a classic well done!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHEATH013
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Barring Gamespot's history lesson on the Sega Rally series, the reviewer makes it abundantly clear 
 that he thinks down upon arcade style gaming. Having only a scant number of tracks and cars, when 
 compared to modern racers with entirely different focuses, is not a deficiency for Sega Rally Revo. 
 Reviewers have said in the past that a good game manages 10-30 seconds of fun and then manages 
 to repeat it over and over. Similarly, while Sega themselves lost their magic years ago, Sega Racing 
 Studio clearly understands what Sega racers are supposed to be. Sega racers, like all Sega games 
 before the PS2's days, were always easy to pick up and play and rewarding to master. Perhaps more 
 significantly, Sega racers always gave the player a feeling of being on the bleeding edge of losing 
 control, and yet you could control it all. This is true of the Outrun, Daytona and Sega Rally games. 
 The fact that multi-player was always a component of these games was not lost on Sega Racing Studio. 
 In Sega Rally, the game gives this dialectic of chaos and control by means of the powerslide mechanic, 
 and the unique physics of how the tires interact with the road. While a driving simulation would 
 punish the player for oversteering by spinning the car and stopping the action, Sega Rally emphasizes 
 flow and speed. Gamers with a bent toward Gran Turismo, Forza, and Toca will have a knee-jerk reaction 
 to this and assume that the gameplay is shallow. This sort of narrow mindedness is what makes modern 
 gameplay so limited. It is possible to spin your car in Sega Rally, but the player really has to 
 screw up for this to happen. The game does punish the player for hitting walls, but it does everything 
 it can to keep the action flowing without giving the player an easy road. Only a head on collision 
 with a track side object will result in a full stop. Otherwise the car will careen off the object, 
 and the player will have to struggle to regain control and down shift one to three gears to get 
 back into the race. Aside from steering clear of the walls, Sega Rally adds the dynamics of traction 
 with various types of surfaces. So, while the player is attempting to make a turn, or speed up 
 on the straightaways, dodging water puddles or staying on asphalt is also part of the game. The 
 challenge comes in from trying to do all of this while avoiding the other (ghost) cars. While the 
 other cars are not AI by modern standards, they do present a challenge by being both obstacles 
 and progressively challenging times to beat. Failing to understand this gameplay dynamic will result 
 in the assumption that the fun that Sega Rally Revo presents is limited to how many tracks and 
 cars are available. The dynamic of differing controls between cars and memorizing different tracks 
 is, at best, of tertiary importance to a proper arcade racer. In fact, adding more tracks and cars 
 can be a detriment to a game like this. DVD generation game players are already predisposed to 
 think that added content equates to more enjoyment. In a game like Sega Rally it can be quite the 
 opposite, as the player will have to break the flow of the action and speed to learn each new track 
 and car. In a game that presents such a great effort to *not* break the flow or the speed, additional 
 tracks and cars are of limited importance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zion82
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Sega Rally is simply Pure gaming pleasure. If you like old school arcade Rallying then get Sega 
 Rally. Sega Rally will bring you back to the days off the original Sega Rally and V-Rally. At the 
 same time the game is truly next-gen. The graphics are very good. Landscapes don't look real life, 
 they have a unique feel to them as you would expect from Sega and makes the racer very enjoyable. 
 With each lap the road gets ripped up making each lap that bit harder. You will also find yourself 
 being distracted by the ground, as it looks so good. If you prefer addictive gaming fun and great 
 production over realism then Sega Rally if for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leshatton
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Rushed out to buy it, rushed home to play it, rushed to press the eject button after an hour.
 
  
  I love racing games, but to be thrown into last place nearly everytime you make a single mistake 
 was to much for me to bear. The graphics are very good and the track looks amazing, the effect 
 of tyres leaving ruts in the ground really works well. Its a pity that the tracks are so short 
 and the gameplay is the same on every track regardless of the surface, i. e snow, mud, gravel and 
 tarmac. just power slide around every corner and it should be fine until you touch the scenery 
 and find youself in last place AGAIN!
  I still have a quick race now and again but the frustration ruins it for me, do yourself a favour 
 and get DIRT instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeanCorleone
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is rather fun, because they addressed a over-looked part of off-road racing for 
 awhile now, and sega realized this. You can feel the cars slip into the ruts, and you know when 
 your not in a good zone... but other then that this game is very simple, very straight forward. 
 Deforming earth shouldn't earn a game a decent rating in my opinion. The cars handle unrealistic 
 (and in the next-gen console world, unrealistic isn't fun to alot of people.) and when I say unrealistic 
 I mean worse then PG4. The game will becoming boring VERY quick as you get the hang of just swinging 
 the car around corners, trying to avoid water which slows you down, yadda yadda. But either way 
 the cars sound decent, but don't seem to perform like real cars in the same sense - everything 
 from shifting, to breaking, just seems wrong. It seems the foucs of the game was mainly on making 
 the earth deface alot... which like I said don't get me wrong, is very lovely and real in its own 
 sense, but at the same time I crave abit more context in a game, not just mindless turning, and 
 track after track. Needs more tracks, needs more cars, needs better A. I., needs a better damage 
 system, needs a better collision system (the A. I. will not yeild ANY ground to you at all and you 
 cannot push them what so ever... boring. they becoming bricks that only block your path... rather 
 then rivals or competition...)
  
  RENT this game, DO NOT buy this game. If you really need a off-road rally style game, look into 
 DiRT, it might not have defacing soil, but it has alot more to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2forever
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat, once you start off this game . You realized how great this game looks graphically. 
 The tracks here looks awsome and the dirt that gets on to your car looks fantastic. but i've beatin 
 the game in just almost a day or 2. it's pretty short, i would have liked it to be longer. but 
 i'm still waiting to see if sega realsese any DLC for the game. some new cars and tracks would 
 be nice. otherwise the online play is pretty solid also. the gameplay is smooth online , just like 
 it is offline. i would recommend this game to whoever is looking to buying a racing game, if you 
 like this game in the past , i believe that you will like this also. but if you really want your 
 money's worth , get pgr4 instead but i you like to breeze through a shout racing game then this 
 game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  After waiting and waiting, holding off from the DiRT and Forza 2 purcahses, i am left disappointed, 
 regreting my lack of purchse of those mentioned games.
  
  Sega Revo has some amazing new ideas in the game, such as the destructible course. I LOVE this 
 feature and it does make a difference on the course. That being said, i truley disliked the controls/handling 
 of the game. I found the handling to be kind of like the old school slot cars we use to play with 
 as kids. no matter how well you try, your car is fish tailing the whole way around the track. I 
 found this to be a little too non-realistic for my taste. I understand they are off roading, however 
 when i need to make a small adjustment when driving, i don think i would fishtail as much as i 
 did in this game.
  
  Good game for a period of time, dull in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  In the avalanche of press releases to promote Sega Rally, the developers were quick to point out 
 the games realistic track deformation, which adds an extra layer of strategy as players battle 
 to stick to the racing-lines gouged in the mud during earlier laps. They also ranted about the 
 graphics, and how the uncannily-authentic mud and dirt create the illusion that youre skidding 
 through real-world tracks. The games dramatic sense of speed was also trailed heavily, promising 
 bowel-loosingly rapid races where the smallest mistake can spell disaster. But while the coders 
 are rightly proud of all these achievements, what really makes Sega Rally an exhilarating ride 
 hasnt changed since the series debut over a decade ago - and thats its sublime handling. With 
 simple controls and gleefully exaggerated physics, the joy of playing SR comes from abusing your 
 motor and sliding around impossible bends, all the time jostling with rival drivers. And while 
 the game loses a star as its computer racers tend to be a little dumber than those in similar titles, 
 Sega Rally is still one of the most thrilling speedsters around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cirus2
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  After playing Dirt since mid june i thought i'd try this out and was very disappointed, the game 
 is quite short and the gfx are pretty poor a ps2 or xbox could do this.
  
  gameplay wise i was bored after few racers, this is something that should stay in the arcade and 
 a must rent before purchase. Theres much better racers out on the xbox 360 at the moment ie.. Dirt, 
 Forza.. alo upcoming like burnout, PGR4 and nfs will be hitting the shelfs in a month or two. I'd 
 Rent this first but then again barely worth the &pound;5 for a crappy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flippy1008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Sega Rally Revo is finally here. Played the demo, played the game. Its Awesome from top to 
 bottom. It appears to be the game of the century. No-One is really buying it. It was delayed until 
 the worst week possible. FiFA 08 was coming out, Halo 3 came out two days before. It was probably 
 a bad time for a game like this to come out, since no-body would really buy it.
  
  But for those thinking about buying, buy it. You won't have any problems. Awesome controls, maps, cars 
 and the bodywork gets filther and better than any other game has before.
  
  The muliplayer isn't great, but its good its in there. Maybe next time they may advance into something 
 a bit more.
  
  So you should get. Even if you read this and thought 'doesn't help me' because it will make a chance 
 from you sports and shooting games, and give you short bursts of driving and dirt action!
  
  
  GOOD POINTS -IT HAS PLENTY OF TRACKS TO RACE ROUND
  -THE MUD TRACKS ARE HIGHLY ADDICTIVE
 
  -IT COMES AT A REASONABLE PRICE
  -MULIPLAYER HAS A FEW GOOD MODES
  -VISUALS BEAT DiRT EASILY
  
  BAD POINTS
  
  -SLIGHTLY REPETIVE
  -MORE MULIPLAYER NEEDED 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smylexx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  Sega's original rally game was a stupendous colossal of a videogame which dominated arcades-and 
 rightly so. It had great handling, aggressive AI rivals and most of all it screamed 'Fun!!' at 
 you for the entire time you were playing it.
  
  This new incarnation follows it's predescessor very closely indeed... in fact, perhaps a little 
 TOO closely.
  
  Although the game has a selection of tracks and cars to choose from and also plays as silky-smooth 
 as you'd expect, it really feels like an arcade game as opposed to a console game. By that, i mean 
 that it's pretty shallow.
  
  I've been playing the game for around 4 hours and have already unlocked most of the cars, livery's 
 and challenges. I don't consider myself to be the greatest driving game aficianado either but once 
 you get in the swing of it and start to learn the tracks, you'll soon find yourself coasting through 
 the championships without really bothering to tinker with the car settings at any time.
  
  I could be wrong, perhaps once i've been the master league a whole bunch of new challenges will 
 spring up but, if not, i reckon anyone who's even half-decent at driving games will have finished 
 this on the first day of purchase.
  
  It's great while it lasts but possibly worth renting if you're on a budget this month. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
