-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sega Superstars Tennis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/segasuperstarstennis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Characters, courts, and music based on classic Sega games.
 Many minigames combine tennis with the gameplay of another game.
 More than 100 different challenges.
 Lots of online options .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Actual tennis is pretty average.
 Some levels use their source material much better than others.
 Many of the characters are D-listers.
 Nobody is playing online .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 262 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sumo Digital
Genre: Tennis
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The tennis is merely average, but the challenges and minigames in Sega Superstars Tennis are creatively 
 done and a lot of fun. 

  After Sonic's recent lackluster performance in Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games, you'd be 
 forgiven for having low expectations for Sega's next sports game to feature mascots: Sega Superstars 
 Tennis. The characters aren't all A-listers and the tennis isn't great, but the game's interesting 
 court designs, minigames, and classic Sega tunes make for a good package.  

  Sega Superstars Tennis features 16 characters from classic Sega games. Each player is rated for 
 speed, control, power, spin, or all-around ability. The eight characters that are unlocked from 
 the start include: Sonic, AiAi from Super Monkey Ball, Nights, Ulala from Space Channel Five, Beat 
 from Jet Set Radio, Amigo from Samba de Amigo, Tails, and Dr. Eggman. The unlockable characters 
 aren't quite as interesting and mostly consist of lesser characters from the same games, though 
 Gillius from Golden Axe and Alex Kidd are worthy additions to the lineup. The courts on which you 
 play and the music you hear while you play are inspired by the game's characters and are sure to 
 please anyone who has enjoyed Sega's games over the years.  

           Admit it, you've always wondered who would win this epic showdown.      

  The characters, 
 levels, music, and even some of the gameplay from these classic franchises are put to good use 
 in superstars mode. This mode is made up of 14 different worlds, each of which is based on a well-known 
 Sega game. The roster includes Super Monkey Ball, Puyo Pop Fever, Samba De Amigo, OutRun, Virtua 
 Squad, Sonic the Hedgehog, Nights, Space Channel Five, ChuChu Rocket, Jet Set Radio, and more. 
 Each is filled with challenges that range from winning single and doubles matches to minigames 
 that mix tennis with gameplay from the franchise on which the area is based.  

  Many of these challenges are really fun, and some of them are especially creative. In the Virtua 
 Squad minigames, you shoot (aim the ball at) the bad-guy targets that pop up while trying to avoid 
 hitting the civilians, just as you would in Virtua Cop. In Puyo Pop Fever, you're essentially playing 
 the actual puzzle game and clearing the Puyo with tennis balls. ChuChu Rocket is also a lot of 
 fun. Just as you did in the Dreamcast game, you have to lead the mice to their rockets by changing 
 the direction of the arrows on the level and avoiding cats -- only this time you change the arrows 
 by hitting them with tennis balls. It's amazing how well some of these games mesh with tennis, 
 and the ones that are done well are really a lot of fun. The only knock against these stages is 
 that the game doesn't do much in the way of explaining the gameplay, so if you've never played 
 ChuChu Rocket before, you're going to be clueless as to how to proceed here.  

  All of the levels in superstars mode are not created equal. The Jet Set Radio stage has the look 
 of the game, but the tagging minigames are frustrating and uninteresting. Running around the court 
 while collecting rings in Sonic's stage isn't too exciting, either. The superstars mode feels unfinished 
 in places because some of the levels have very little or nothing to do with the game on which they 
 are based. OutRun's court has the look of OutRun, but there are no challenges based on the game. 
 The same goes for Samba De Amigo and Space Channel Five, although some of the excellent music from 
 those games is featured. Golden Axe is particularly noteworthy because, aside from not having any 
 challenges based on the game, the level in which it takes place isn't even based on Golden Axe; 
 it's Curien Mansion from House of the Dead, complete with zombies. But even with these issues, 
 superstars mode is an entertaining and enjoyable way to play tennis.  

  It's a good thing that superstars mode is so much fun, given that the actual tennis in Sega Superstars 
 Tennis is merely average. The simple controls mean that it's easy to pick up and play, but you'll 
 have mastered the gameplay in a matter of minutes. There are a few different control schemes on 
 the Wii and they work fine, though the motion controls don't add much to the experience. In all 
 versions the controls are tight, but there are times when you'll hit the button to swing and your 
 character won't respond. This seems to be the game's way of punishing you for getting to the ball 
 late. This is kind of cheap, but if it didn't happen you'd rarely lose a point because it's so 
 difficult to hit a winning shot that you're almost always in position to return the ball. Lobs, 
 drop shots, and net play are ineffective, which means that you'll spend your time hitting from 
 the baseline, trying to run your opponent back and forth from left to right until he or she can't 
 get to a shot. Each character has a superstar ability that can be activated once the star below 
 the character begins to flash, but these abilities aren't much help and serve only to interrupt 
 play. There is a distinct difference between the different play styles of the characters, which 
 makes for some variety in how you attack each opponent, but don't expect too much challenge from 
 the artificial intelligence. It's generally fairly easy.  

  Sega Superstars Tennis gameplay is fun, but it's so simple that you probably won't want to play 
 online, given that the points can go on forever. However, if you do go online on the PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 (there's no online mode in the PlayStation 2 or Wii versions) then you'll be pleased 
 to know that the game features a surprisingly robust online mode that runs well and is lag-free. 
 You can play a quick match, a ranked match, and even enter a tournament. Additionally, you can 
 use the TV mode to watch the game's best players do their thing live or just enjoy highlights from 
 matches. Unfortunately, you'd be hard-pressed to actually use any of these great features because 
 almost nobody is playing online. We never saw more than four people online at one time, which is 
 a shame considering how much effort the developer put into this aspect of the game.  

           Some of the minigames do a great job of combining the gameplay of their source material 
 with tennis.      

  You won't be amazed by Sega Superstars Tennis' visuals, but it's a decent-looking game that makes 
 good use of its source material. The courts and their surroundings look like they were ripped straight 
 from the games on which they were based. The characters aren't particularly detailed, but they 
 all look fine and are nicely animated. Sonic will spin to get to hard-to-reach shots, Beat will 
 skate around the court, and Nights hovers just above the court while gliding to and fro. Although 
 the game is hardly pushing the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 to their limits, the frame rate isn't 
 always steady, particularly on the PS3. Some courts are worse than others during singles play, 
 but the frame rate chugs on any stage if you're playing doubles.  

  If you're looking to play traditional tennis, then you'll want to stick with Top Spin or Virtua 
 Tennis. But if you want a lighthearted tennis game, enjoy minigames, and have a special place in 
 your heart for the glory days of Sega, then you'll find a lot to like in Sega Superstars Tennis. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: marioboy333
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 7:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is in final word good. This game is about sonic and other sega characters are here to 
 play tennis. There are new characters that i never heard of. Like beat, Ulula and alot more. There 
 is a massive amout of missions in superstar mode. i think there is 101 missions. Most of them are 
 really fun. Some are really hard. I think only 2 challanges that i had trouble with. That still 
 leaves 98 fun challanges left that are easy and fun. The tennis is what brought this game kind of 
 down. The tennis is what gamespot said, it is average. It is to easy so u are a master within one 
 r two days of playing it. Though there is some computers who are exetrmely hard. Xbox live gamespot 
 was wrong on something. People are online somtimes. Playing online is like playng with a computer, but 
 can be either easier or harder. The graphics are really good. The stages are nice. The superstar 
 things can be useful or useless. Some of the useless ones can be useful, but have to be used in a 
 certain way. Anyway the game is worth buying or renting. It is now like 21$ at the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SR71halo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I haven't really played too many tennis games (except for Mario Tennis) , but I was a fan of Sega 
 ever since the Genesis (mostly the Sonic series) so once I heard about this, I couldn't wait. As 
 it turns out, the game is actually pretty fun with many tennis courts to play in as well as some 
 great mini games from Sega's best games.
  
  You start out with only 8 playable characters to choose from such as Sonic, Aiai, Nights, Amigo, 
 Beat, etc. but you can unlock the other 8 in the challenge mode such as Shadow, Amy, Reala, Alex 
 Kidd, Gilius (Golden Axe) , etc. for a total of 16 playable characters in all from your favorite 
 SEGA games.
  
  In challenge mode, you complete different challenges from different games in order to unlock more 
 characters, courts, or mini games. The different challenges vary from normal tennis games, tournaments 
 and mini games. Some of them are pretty easy but some of them can also be quite hard.
  
  There isn't really too much to say about the normal tennis game. If you've played other tennis 
 games, you can pretty much already know what to expect. You can choose either singles or doubles 
 matches for up to 4 players total and you have a choice between a variety of courts from different 
 SEGA games. Each character also has his/her own super star power which can give them an edge for 
 a short period of time. To build this up, simply keep hitting the ball (or scoring) until the star 
 under your character starts glowing. Pretty much, if you like tennis, you'll like this.
  
  There are also a good selection of fun mini games from different SEGA games as well. For the most 
 part, the majority of them are fun. My personal favorites would have to be Virtua Cop (shoot tennis 
 balls at targets in the first stage of Virtua Cop) , Curien Mansion (hits all the zombies with the 
 tennis balls) , or Sonic the Hedgehog (grab rings while dodging spiky balls) . Like I said, the mini 
 games are really fun and probably the best part of the whole game.
  
  Lastly, there's a tournament mode for either singles or doubles. You can play it against the computer 
 or take it online (too bad there aren't many people online) .
  
  For what it's worth, Sega Superstars Tennis is a fun game. There isn't too much special about the 
 actual tennis but it's still fun to play and the mini games are a very nice bonus. I think they 
 could have used a few more old school Sega characters such as Vectorman, but the roster is actually 
 pretty decent. Anyone who loves tennis, mini games, or SEGA's franchises/characters might want 
 to give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  (Reviewed for Xbox 360)
  
  
  [Opening Comment]
  Sega Superstars Tennis will have you screaming mad in a matter of seconds, it could be because 
 one moment, you'll destroy your opponent in a matter of shots, and the next you can move without 
 being scored on, or it could be the fact that half the game the mini-games are pointless and usually 
 have nothing to do with tennis, but you have to complete them to unlock D-List Characers and courses. 
 But It isn't all bad.
  
  [Gameplay]
  The game controls as anyother tennis game would, A or X or a combination of both to hit, and control 
 your shot's aim with the analog stick and move with the same analog stick (Hard) but there is a 
 mix up in this one, Super Star Mode, which really has no effect on the game if you use one, concidering 
 is goes straight to your opponent if you have it but if your opponent uses it, you'll hardly get 
 to the ball, usually an automatic score for them, but not you. The controls are usually unresponsive 
 and might not even work at times. Merely an average control scheme.
  [Score-7]
  
  [Graphics]
  Besides some really colorful and good looking courses, the graphics are also pretty 
 average, I'll compare it to Mario and Sonic and the Olympic Games, the character designes do not 
 look as good as mario and sonic, less detrail and not as smooth, but it moves smooth and it's a 
 pretty looking game.
  [Score-7.5]
  
  [Value]
  Superstar Mode (kind of a campaign-ish mode) will last your a couple of days, that is, if you dont 
 just stop playing because it is frustering or getting boring, it will last more in just local multiplayer, 
 but if you want to try it online, good luck finding a match.
  [Score- 7.5]
  
  [Tilt]
  An Average control scheme mixed up with Superstar mode, but that's really nothing special, the 
 main attraction are the characters, ranging from Sonic the Hedgehog and Monkey Ball to Space Channel 
 Five and Golden Axe. I wouldn't pay for the whole 50-60 dollar price tag, check your bargin bins.
 
  [7] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Sega Superstars Tennis is the most frustrating game I've ever played... ever.
  
  AI-
  The AI in this game is atrocious. One moment you'll whip them like cream and the next round they'll 
 play like tennis pros and smoked you in four shots. This inconsistent Ai is the most frustrating 
 thing on earth and you'll find yourself slamming the controller on the ground many times. 
  
  Gameplay-
  The tennis in Sega Superstars Tennis is decent at best. The superstar moves are 
 also inconsistent you'll notice that when you do one the ball goes directly to the opponent and 
 when the AI does one it'll go in the complete opposite direction of you, and they'll go off screen 
 to hit one of yours which is extremely irritating. Maybe the most annoying thing about this game 
 is making you do pointless minigames to unlock stuff.
  
  Graphics-
  Not much to comment on. The enviroments look great though, as do most of the characters. Some of 
 the sonic brand characters look kinda of weird like tails and amy. The courts are great and really 
 creative and are just fun to play in because they all have a different atmosphere.
  
  Overall this game is inconsistent and annoying and easily the most frustrating game on the planet 
 earth. Don't buy this game unless you can find it for under $20 bucks... I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Links14
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is a better game than I excepted. Sega games have not been all that good but this game 
 is great. I think you should rent this game first before buying it. I would not buy it because 
 the single player is short, the only hard mission is when you have to unlock Alex Kidd. Basic all 
 you do in this game is play great minigames and play in single and double tournaments. There is 
 no storyline. The multiplayer is the best thing. If you have a lot of ppl over this would be a 
 great game to play. The minigames are fun because there are a lot of different powerups and different 
 objectives. When you play doubles tournaments you can use specials. Each character has different 
 specials. The online is bad. If you are looking for somebody to play online with your not going 
 to find anybody. Nobody plays this online. Overall this game is a good if you like tennis or just 
 like playing with sega characters.
  
  
  P. S. There aren't a lot of characters. They should have put in more characters and sometimes when 
 you press the button to hit the ball it doesn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0m39AX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  SEGA SUPERSTAR TENNIS REVIEW
  
  By 0m39A X
  
  GRAPHICS 7,8
  
  The graphics in SST for the Xbox 360 are the best of all consoles (the difference between PS3 and 
 360 versions lies on the framerate; 360's better) . The reason why it couldn't reach an 8 is that 
 it has highs and lows, sometimes quite opposites. Everyone would agree that Sonic, Amigo and Ulala's 
 stages do a great job in impressing our eyes. Specially Sonic's stage, wich is so colorful and 
 filled with elements smoothly shined by the sun's light. You'd feel like you're actually playing 
 one of Sonic's CG's animations from Saturn and Dreamcast era. On the other hand, After Burner and 
 House of the Dead stages seems like they're straightly taken from a 128bit-gen-console. They're 
 composed mostly of big, plain polygons with textures that nowadays seems blurred. The After Burner 
 stage aspect makes it looks like the airport ring in Fighting Vipers 2 for Dreamcast. And House 
 of the Dead (Curien Mansion) 's stage doesn't even stand in comparison with PS2 version of Resident 
 Evil 4 (wich is the version with lowest graphical resolution) . Outrun, Super Monkey Ball and Jet 
 Set Radio's stages do just fine, in terms of current-gen graphical experience. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 7,5
  
  SST has a gameplay wich feels much like the Dreamcast versions of Virtua Tennis. 
 Back in late 90's and early 2000's, Virtua Tennis was the most realistic in its genre. The game 
 mechanics in SST seems somewhat a simplified, more easy to learn VT mechanics. Speed in SST is 
 quite similar to VT, although it seems a little slower. And so it happens with the variety of moves 
 you can make. SST has less movements than early VT games, although the variations you can make 
 while playing, depending on your character's positions on the court, the direction you may press 
 on analog stick, and the timing of wich you press the hit button is very similar than VT. We know 
 that SST alledgelly is made to appeal a wider audience (ranging from children to young adults who 
 now are old SEGA fans) , and therefore it must have easy-to-play mechanics, but it could have been 
 a bit more sophisticated. Early VT versions were easy-to-play, but with a almost perfect balance 
 between easiness and depth for its time. 
  
  FUN FACTOR 8,0 
  
  This is the area in wich this game really shines. The single player campaign mode'll keep you hooked 
 for hours. You'll not rest until you unlock all characters, mini-games and stages. And you'll unlock 
 them with the purpose of having more of it to play with your friends! This is really a party game. 
 
  The achievements are also varied enough to keep you busy, although the developers could have spend 
 a bit more time putting more challenge on them, or making them more specific. At least 70% of achievements 
 you'll simply get from playing the entire single-player mission mode while completing 'A' rank 
 on each mission, wich is required to open new missions and stages. Therefore, most of the time 
 you'll be completing achievements without even knowing or wanting them. 
  Still concerning the single-player campaign mode, its structure is almost identical to classic 
 Virtua Tennis games, composed of a scenario filled with marked points containing missions, wich 
 vary from matches against several opponents (ranging from single matches to complete tournaments) 
 and mini-games. Each point (or area) in the scenario is thematic, inspired by a different classic 
 SEGA game. Alex Kidd, Space Harrier (Arcade, Master System) , Golden Axe, After Burner (arcade, Master 
 System, Genesis) , Outrun (arcade, Master System, Genesis, Xbox) , Nights, Virtua Cop (Saturn, Wii) , 
 The House of the Dead (arcade, Saturn, Dreamcast, Xbox) , Puyo Pop (arcade, several consoles) , Space 
 Channel 5 (Dreamcast, PS2) , Jet Set Radio (Dreamcast, Xbox) , Samba de Amigo, Chu Chu Rockt (Dreamcast) , 
 Super Monkey Ball (Gamecube, PS2) , along with Sonic compose this killer cast of nostalgic fun. Who 
 could ever imagined elements of Alex Kidd (SEGA'S first attempt to beat Mario's hegemony in platform 
 games, way before Sonic) , Jet Set Radio, Samba de Amigo and Sonic in a single game ? It feels 
 almost like a dream becoming reality to any gamer who cares a bit 'bout gaming history. Some mini-games 
 have gameplay wich resemble the original versions. Puyo Pop and Virtua Cop mini-games'll simply 
 get you addicted. 
  But, as we said 'almost', it's because we think this game ends up being a big 'almost'. For some 
 unknown reason, some of the games initially available in single player campaign mode (wich contains 
 mini-games that can be unlocked for multiplayer later on) in the whole scenario doesn't have its 
 own courts. The result is that, in example, everytime you play Space Harrier you'll be playing 
 it at Sonic's stage. Golden Axe tournaments all happen in Courien Mansion's (The House of the Dead) , 
 wich is odd, at least. Also, we think some important SEGA games are missing the cast is already 
 great, but wait! Why the hell Daytona, Crazy Taxi, Phantasy Star, Sega Rally, Virtua Fighter and 
 Shenmue are not present? We're pretty sure all of these games would easily be labeled as part of 
 SEGA's all-time hits, some in finantial terms (like Daytona) , some in groundbreaking relevance (like 
 Shenmue) . We'd love to play as Ryo Hazuki (from Shenmue) in a Phantasy Star stage, against any of 
 Crazy Taxi cab drivers. 
  Other main downhill in single-player campaign mode is its lack of difficulty. Ten hours, at most, 
 is enough to any average console-gamer to complete single player campaign mode in 'A' rank in standart 
 difficulty setting. This game could be a bit more challenging. You'll have lots of fun completing 
 it, although sometimes you'll see yourself repeating techniques and not worrying 'bout using the 
 same character against different opponents in single player tournaments. This AI's game could have 
 been more refined. 
  
  FINAL SCORE 7,5
  
  On the good side 
  Great (and quite simple) fun. Lots of mini-games. Easy mechanics. Good graphics. Great multiplayer. 
 
  
  On the bad side
  Important games (and characters) are missing. Easy to finish in single-player campaign mode. Not 
 so good AI. Achievement system could have been better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SDMF_TrueBlue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  The first two things for me to say are that I do not play sports games and that I grew up playing 
 the Genesis. That said, this game is great nostalgia for those of us who owned a Genesis, Saturn, 
 and Dreamcast. References to Golden Axe, Sonic, OutRun, Puyo Pop, NiGHTS, The House of the Dead, 
 Virtua Cop, Space Channel 5, Alex Kidd, and Super Monkey Ball are abundant and range from uber-nerd-flashbacks 
 to  The tennis is pretty simple, but it will appeal 
 to fans of arcade and caual sports titles. Some mini-games are incredible and recreate the original 
 feel of the game nicely (collecting rings to earn the Chaos Emeralds or knocking Monkey Balls into 
 goals) , others are pleasantly bizarre (using tennis balls to kill zombies) , and others are just 
 dumb (the aiming in Virtua Squad is slow and tedious) . I have been unable to find and play a match 
 over XBL, but if you can get a friend to buy a copy, you could have a good time. Overall this game 
 should have a lot of appeal to gamers like myself who had a Genesis for years. At $20 new, this 
 game is worth the price. Non Genesis fans might give this game a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3A3L3O
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  When heard if this game i thought, bad graphics, no fun, boring tennis. But i was wrong!!!!
  
  
  GAMEPLAY: The solo player is pretty fun but can be a bore after finishing (which can be 
 pretty fast) . You basicly go threw different zones consisting of your favorite Sega characters. 
 In Sonic the Hedgehog you'll go aorund collecting rings off the court, like you would in any Sonic 
 game, and try to dodge flying missles Dr. Eggman hits at you. In Virtua Cops you'll take out some 
 dudes by aiming and spikeing your tennis balls into there faces without hitting any civilians. 
 This by far is my favorite zone. The thing that becomes annoying is when you actually have to play 
 a tennis match... This sounds a little sad since it is supposed to be a tennis game, but the tennis 
 is the worst part! Overall the solo mode will bore you after awhile. The multi player is fun you 
 can spend hours with your friends. You can nail some zombies, tag some streets, shoot some cops 
 with tennis balls. and even just play each other. The down side to playing eachother is that your 
 tennis games will end up by hitting the ball to the opposite side of the court have your opponent 
 run and hit it to the other side of the court. This will continue untill one player just can't 
 reach the ball any more. So this will make you not even want to play the actuall tennis at all! 
 But along with what I said earlier, there are little mini games you can play with your friends. 
 These are alot more fun to play and makes this game at least some what decent.
  
  CHARACTERS: This part of the game is pretty week. Half of the characters you wont even know if 
 you aren't an old school gamer, but you can enjoy your no brainers like Sonic, and Aiai.
  
  OVERALL: An okay game... the tennis part could use osme shaping up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 2, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Over that last few years, Sega has created some okay franchises such as Sonic the Hedgehog, Samba 
 de Amigo, House of the Dead, OutRun as well as many others. Now it is time for Sega to meet the 
 Virtua Tennis guys and try to make a good game on a 360 with Sonic in it. The game is a Virtua 
 Tennis just with Sega Characters each with their own unique abilities. Sound interested? Neither 
 was I. To unlock new characters and locations you need to complete tasks, but after the first two 
 levels, the game gets reptitive, and reptitive, and reptitive.
  
  On the Positive side: The game features some solid tennis gameplay. I mean, how can you go wrong 
 with the Virtua Tennis engine on your side.
  
  However: The minigames are just dumb and just think thats more minigames on the Wii. Holy shoot! 
 As well, The games way too easy.
  
  Verdict: Even though the tennis courts looked great, nothing else did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingdomcool5
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  this game is great if you have played sega superstars for eyetoy for the playstation 2 you will 
 love tis it hase all thouse kind of games in it and its not just tennis its got tons of really 
 fun minigames to play with frainds fun achaifments and a story mode called planet superstars witch 
 is really cool you play matches tornamens and the mini games in its got games like 
  Alex KiDD, Spase hariers, golden axe, monkey ball, sonic the hedgehog, nights, samba de amigo and 
 a ton of others and each charecter has a fun and cool special ability that makes the ball go all 
 over the stadiam so if youre a fan of tennis or tessis games this is that and better the sega charecters 
 just make it stand out above all the rest awsome game and if youre like me in that you dont like 
 sport games you will still really like this so a t least give it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Solid graphics, fun mini games, interesting special moves for characters, online multiplayer, 
 ZOMBIES!!!
  
  The Bad: Some character's specials are just cheap, it doesn't really do anything new, more characters 
 would have been nice, can get dull after a while.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I have to say that Sega has typically been a hit in 2008. I currently own 5 Sega titles that were 
 released in 2008, and all of them are good. Sega Superstars Tennis was a game that originally, 
 I wasn't very interested in, but after being convinced by a friend to give it a shot, I have to 
 say I'm glad I did. 
  
  First off, yes, Sega Superstars Tennis is Virtua Tennis 3 with Sega cartoon characters, but that 
 doesn't effect how much fun the game is. In fact, I'd say it's more fun because of the cartoonyness 
 of the game. You can select a variety of Sega Superstars ranging from Sonic to Beat from Jet Set 
 Radio. Each character has their respective strengths and weaknesses, and using these to your advantage 
 can be key in winning matches on or offline. The specials that your character can unleash can be 
 pretty ammusing, as well as cheap. I mean, why can I not escape Dr. Eggman's giant electric spike 
 balls? That's just not fair... On the flip side, once you get good at using your particular character, 
 you may be able to combat a particularly cheap special with your own.
  
  The single player Superstar Tour basically consists of you playing tennis matches against the AI 
 and play mini games to move along and unlock new characters and courts. The actual tennis matches 
 are fun, especially once the game becomes a duel of specials, but after a while, normal matches 
 get old. The mini games are particularly amusing, especially the House of the Dead themes ones. 
 How awesome is it to be able to hit zombies with tennis balls? TOO AWESOME!!! There are also some 
 that involve collecting rings while giant electric balls are flying at you and dodgeball, so be 
 ready for anything. 
  
  The visuals of Sega Superstars Tennis are pretty solid, since it uses the same engine as Virtua 
 Tennis 3, but with a more cartoony style. The sound effects are also solid and the unlockable music 
 tracks are a nice touch. 
  
  I do have a few gripes. First, dispite the amusing gameplay, it does get old after a while, so 
 don't expect to get 4 or 5 hour play sessions out of this. Maybe 2-3, but that's about it. Second, 
 I would have liked to have seen some other characters appear. Perhaps Ethan Thomas from Condemned 
 or Scarin from Viking could have added some more variety, but what they have is alright. I have 
 not tried the online yet, so I'll update this review once I do, but it looks like it could be a 
 lot of harmless fun.
  
  Overall, if you are iching for something to get over your Wii tennis craze, or just want something 
 different to play on your 360, Sega Superstars Tennis is a fine choice for some good, mostly clean 
 tennis fun.
  
  Gameplay: Arcady, cartoony tennis is quite fun, but the strange mini games steal the show.
  
 
  Graphics: Cartoony, but solid visuals.
  
  Sound: Good sound effects and voice acting. The soundtrack is lacking at first, but you unlock 
 additional tracks as you play the game.
  
  Value: At $50, it's not too bad of a purchase, but unless you really want to play it, I'd say wait 
 until it drops to at least $40.
  
  Final Thoughts: Zombies are defenceless against tennis balls... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_The_Cage
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays Sega seems to follow the Nintendo model; i. e. release a lot of games involving its signature 
 characters, the first in these series was Mario & Sonic At the Olympic Games, eventhough it wasn't 
 a good game it was enough for people that wanted to see Mario and Sonic competing side by side. 
 Sega Superstar Tennis packs that familiar Mario Tennis enviroment ( i'm not saying ots a complete 
 knock-off) , if you are somewhat familiar with the Mario Tennis Series this game should not be a 
 problem for you gamer soul.
  
  Regarding the plot, it is deep as these type of games allow it, so don't epect to find yourself 
 with a time comsuming story, it will take you about 5 to 7 hours to complete, if less. Nonetheless 
 you'll find an array of characters from different Sega games to play with.
  
  The game comes pack with different mini games or challenges you can play an unlock as you play. 
 This feature is kind of fun if you already complete the game. It will not pay for the retail price 
 but at least you've got an option. 
  
  The real deal comes with the multiplayer as you will get more juice out with this feature than 
 with any other, invite some friends over and let the tennis mayhem begin, it plain fun and simple, 
 if you have an xbox live suscription you will get ivon more of the game as you can play against 
 player in the live network or simply watch matches through the TV mode.
  
  If you like Sega and like tennis games this game is one of the best options out there, I suggest 
 you rent it before you buy to see if the experience is worth the cost 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoomSky
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Sega Superstar tennis is something sega has needed for awhile when players start this up some can 
 expect a load of nostalgia but all can expect great fun. Lets get the basic idea of the game out 
 first, Sega grabbed loads of characters from their quite rich history (Sonic, NIGHTS, AI AI, Ulala 
 the whole lot goldon axe fans can even expect a treat) 16 of them in total then gave them rackets 
 and sent them out onto crazy courts based off the many games the characters come from. Its come 
 out great.
  
  Dont expect any real sort of plot line it does not make sense as it is but thats good it means 
 more focus on the gameplay. So anyway the controls are easy enough to get a hold of, me and my 
 friend lost our first game 2 times in a row however but that was probably becuase we were too busy 
 laughing at Dr Eggman dashing and jumping across the court. 
  
  So at first it seems to be just a tennis game with a sega theme (even this is still good) but there 
 are a few things that make it stand out such as superstar moves which let your character perform 
 unique moves that hamper the enemy or boost yourself, yet again Eggman stole the show with his 
 special bombs that spread across to the enemy court every time he hits the ball.
  
  Next there are the party games a strange assortment of mini games that task you with certain objectives. 
 The best has to be The House Of The Dead game where players have to smash tennis balls into a incoming 
 undead horde. Superstars is a great game with friends, easy to get into but with enough variety 
 to keep the fun flowing. A solid soundtrack will bring back memories of your favourite games and 
 newcomers will find the music usually fitting.
  
  Overall Sega Superstars Tennis is a really fun game. With a great multiplayer, intresting party 
 games and fun characters and courts. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
