-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shadowrun
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/shadowrun/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique ability system sets the game apart from other shooters.
 Lets Vista and 360 users play on the same servers.
 Good-looking effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bad and missing animation makes the game look unfinished.
 Not enough maps to stay interesting for long.
 Does absolutely nothing with the Shadowrun license.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.0, 70 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 3,583 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Microsoft Game Studios
Developer: FASA Studio
Genre: Fantasy First-Person...
Date: May 29, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This multiplayer-only shooter does absolutely nothing with the Shadowrun name, and its unique strengths 
 are offset by a lack of variety. 

  You wouldn't automatically expect a multiplayer first-person shooter like Counter-Strike to serve 
 as the main inspiration for a game based on a 1989 pen-and-paper RPG, but that's exactly what you 
 get in Microsoft's Shadowrun, which takes all of the cyberpunk-plus-magic stuff from the RPG and 
 boils it down to magic spells and technological character upgrades. The action is kind of neat, 
 but a lack of variety and its multiplayer-only offering make for a pretty shallow experience that 
 feels about $30 too expensive.  

          Shadowrun offers some unique abilities that make it feel different from other shooters, 
 but what it really needs is about six more maps.     

  Aside from six brief-but-necessary training sequences and the ability to play against bots of questionable 
 intelligence, Shadowrun is played online. Up to 16 players can get into one eight-on-eight game, 
 pitting the rebellious Lineage forces against the new-world-order-like RNA Global, who are apparently 
 fighting each other in an attempt to control magic, which has recently returned to an already-high-tech 
 world. But that's about as much story as you're going to get here, as the rest of the game is all 
 about buying skills and controlling artifacts.  

  Shadowrun is a round-based multiplayer first-person shooter that works a lot like Counter-Strike. 
 At the front of each round, you're given a safe period where you can access a buy menu and purchase 
 weapons, tech upgrades, and magic spells. So in addition to buying a submachine gun, you might 
 pick up some aim enhancement in the form of the SmartLink tech upgrade, and the ability to teleport 
 through walls, floors, and ceilings. These skills set the game a bit apart from the average team-based 
 shooter as it lets you specialize. Spells like tree of life and resurrect let you heal and revive 
 other players. Or you might get smoke, which lets you transform into a smoke form that can't be 
 damaged by conventional weapons. Or perhaps you'll buy gust, which blows players around and, not 
 so coincidentally, makes for a powerful counter against players using smoke. There's a pretty good 
 collection of abilities to play around with, but the catch is that you can have only three of them 
 equipped at any given time.  

  You'll make another meaningful choice by choosing your race. Humans are better at using tech upgrades. 
 Elves move faster and can't take as much damage as the other races, but they regenerate health. 
 Trolls are big and tough, but they're also very slow and don't have as much essence, which is the 
 meter that drains when you cast spells. Dwarves are little and hardy, though they don't regenerate 
 essence very well on their own. But this is offset by the dwarves' ability to absorb essence from 
 nearby players or other magical items. For what it's worth, it seems like most players pick elves 
 most of the time, though the different races seem to balance out just fine.  

  Once you've spent a little money on some guns and spells, it's off to do battle. There are three 
 team-based gametypes, though there isn't a huge difference between them. Two of them focus on an 
 artifact, which is Shadowrun's version of a flag. In one mode, each team wants to capture the artifact 
 by grabbing it and delivering it to a team-specific capture point. Another gametype puts one team 
 on full-time defense, and they must prevent the attacking team from capturing the artifact. The 
 attrition gametype is the only one that doesn't center on the artifact, and instead you just need 
 to wipe out the other team, but since you can win that way in any of the other gametypes, it doesn't 
 feel especially different.  

  Every map can handle an attrition game, but only the larger maps can run raid or extraction games. 
 The three smaller, attrition-only maps are for eight-player games, and they're actually smaller 
 versions of some of the existing maps, which feels like a rip-off, considering there are only nine 
 original maps to choose from. Between the lack of maps and the similarity between the gametypes, 
 you'll feel like you've seen just about everything that Shadowrun has to offer within the first 
 few hours -- provided you can get into a game.  

  Shadowrun attempts to use a variation on Halo 2's party system, meaning you can get some people 
 on your friends list together and ship off to find other players to play against. But even when 
 you're alone, Shadowrun's automatic game finder seems to have trouble finding games quickly. It'll 
 also drop you into games that are just ending, which is annoying. PC members can also get into 
 PC-only dedicated server games using a more standard server browser, which is substantially faster, 
 though not as populated.  

  Shadowrun is the first game to allow Xbox 360 and PC users to play on the same servers. The game 
 seems to work just fine on both platforms, and there's almost no indication that a player is using 
 a PC or a 360 to play. Rather than limit auto-aim to just the 360 or to controller users, as the 
 Vista version of Halo 2 did, Shadowrun gives a little bit of it to everyone, which is, of course, 
 pumped up with the addition of the SmartLink ability. This might frustrate PC mouse-and-keyboard 
 users, as it feels like your aim is being taken out of your hands a bit; and if you've been playing 
 PC shooters with any regularity, you probably don't need the help. But regardless of how weird 
 it can feel, it does at least feel balanced.  

  Visually, Shadowrun looks great in some areas and painfully unfinished in others. The environments 
 and textures look good, and the spell effects and other particle-oriented elements look great. 
 But then there are dumb omissions, like the way that they didn't bother to include any kind of 
 climbing animation -- so when characters go up ladders, they do so locked in their standing position 
 with no movement whatsoever. Also, the different player models look pretty good, but there's absolutely 
 no variety. All Lineage elves look identical, all RNA humans look the same, and so on. Some sort 
 of differentiation would have been nice. These kinds of omissions make the game look sloppy in 
 spots, which is a real shame.  

          It's a bummer that there's no single-player campaign, because some of the abilities would 
 have allowed for some interesting stealth and attack tactics.     

  Aside from the voice chat, which works just as well on the PC as it does on the 360 provided you 
 have the proper hardware (like a 360 headset hooked up to your PC) , the rest of the game's audio 
 is good, but a bit sparse. Since it's all multiplayer, there's no in-game music. But there's an 
 announcer who lets you know when rounds end, or when either team grabs or drops the artifact. If 
 voice chat isn't your thing, you can push a button to give a quick, automated report about your 
 surroundings, which is good for letting your team know when an area is clear, when there are enemies 
 present, or when you need backup, since it'll put icons up on your teammates' screen, letting you 
 know where the call is coming from. Gunfire, explosions, and things like that all sound pretty 
 good, too.  

  Perhaps the most telling aspect of Shadowrun comes from WizKids, the maker of the other Shadowrun 
 stuff. When the game was first unveiled last year, it alerted Shadowrun fans that this might not 
 be for them by posting "fair warning, however: Microsoft rewrote the timeline and setting for this 
 game, so it is not in continuity with the tabletop RPG. It may be more accurately described as 
 a game loosely based on Shadowrun." If you're going in with no expectations on the lore and licensed 
 side of things, you'll find a decent and somewhat unique multiplayer shooter. But you'll also have 
 to pay full price for what feels like half a game, making it difficult to recommend.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (428 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ugly_Genius
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  first off. no campaign. it has a story, but you cant play it, only read the things flying by the 
 screen in the menu. its all oline, but it only has one good map and the games you play are crappy. 
 the acheivements are retarded, the guns are retarded, and nerdy players always use nerdy classes 
 and will avoid fighting you until time runs out or they sneak up on you and stab you. it will anger 
 you and will not be enjoyable. i look at my game and i say "WHY?!?!"
  dont buy it. dont rent it. pretend it doesent exsist. if you see it on the shelf, look away quickly 
 and dont look back. there isnt any joy from the gam. slight enjoyment comes from bot matches with 
 your friends, but even then, you find yoursleff dying in stupid ways. it has a good concept to 
 it, but there is SO much needed to be fixed. so much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodDemon
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:46 am PT
Review:  How the hell does Darkmessiah score a 3.5 and this a 6.9? DM was funner than this and had better 
 combat. This game is not even fit too be on xbox 360 and I woulden't listen too people here about 
 this being a good game because the servers took the site down... even they knew this game was awful.
 
  
  It is the worst team based game ever and there are many ways to die with one hit. It is no fun 
 and most of your shots miss your enemy and the sword is prehaps the worst weapon in game and you 
 don't even have a chance with that agaist a person with a gun.
  
  There is a little back story too this game but it is awful, and all the levels are very bad and 
 there could have been better levels.
  
  And lastly... no one even plays this online anymore.
  
  
  This game is not fit too be on xbox 
 360 and I ask you not to buy this game... if you want a team based game go buy quake wars.
  
  
  
  
  1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skillplox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:01 pm PT
Review:  My first experience with Shadowrun was at a friend's house. We we're playing Halo 3 (Another amazing 
 game so check it out) . I wanted to play something else for a little bit, so picked this bad boy 
 up. When I first fired it up, I went to the option on the menu called start here. From there I 
 learned how to teleport, glide, and shoot. And I was instantly hooked. I thought I was ready for 
 online.
  In online play you start out with 2000 dollars which you can buy weapons/magic/ammo with, and every 
 time your team wins or you kill people, you get more money to buy more magic or weapons. I like 
 the mix of both a medieval game and weapons. Don't get me wrong, its not medieval at all, besides 
 the races, which resemble a World of Warcraft type environment. This game is so hated on but seriously 
 guys? Come on, give it a chance, I bet you didn't even understand the strategy that you have to 
 come with Shadowrun, unlike Call of Duty where you just shoot and knife. Think folks, snag this 
 one in your local gamestop for about 15-30 bucks used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperGunnarLive
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  First things first... The game was released in 2007, but it is still a lot of people still playing 
 this game.
  You will be hooked up to a game in under minutes.
  This game is for those with Xbox Live. If you don't have Xbox Live, this is not a game for you.
 
  
  What is dragging this game down is the lack of a single player mode, lack of gaming types in the 
 multiplayer part, and the cheap graphics.
  But that doesn't really matter when the online part is so great.
  The game is like a mix-up between 
 Counter Strike, and World Of Warcraft.
  
  You are fighting in teams like in CS, but the main difference is that you can choose a race to 
 play, and you also have magic and other tech to use, on top of the weapons.
  That change the gamestyle a whole lot.
  Every race got some weak, and strong points.
  And you 
 will find out which race is your favorite pretty quickly.
  
  This game is fantastic if you want to team up with a couple of friends and have a good time.
 
  The problem here, is that you can't play more than one person on your Xbox.
  This is a frustrating problem.
  But you will soon enough find someone to team up with in this 
 game.
  
  The only mode you got in the multiplayer is different variations of the "Capture the flag" mode.
 
  This is really not a problem, because this is challenging enough.
  Though it should been a couple of more modes to choose between.
  The maps is awesome, and just 
 big enough for a game like this.
  Some maps you even get in smaller versions.
  And you have to find out different tactics to use in each of these maps.
  
  All in all I say 
 this is a game that will grow on you, and once you get the hung of this, you will get the Shadowrun 
 fever.
  I recommend to go out and buy this game.
  You can find it everywhere, really cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Busy_Man123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is amazing. It's not the RPG game, but it's innovative and well designed. This game is 
 made for competitive players and those who love online gaming.
  
  The gameplay doesn't play like most FPS games. It uses the Counter-Strike buy menu and you can 
 buy weapons, spells, and techs. The spells and techs really make the gameplay different and unique. 
 You can teleport while running and gunning, flying in the air and sword fighting at the same time, 
 or gusting someone and shooting your opponent while he could barely aim. The weapons are very standard. 
 The spells are familar if you play a lot of RPG games, but it's very rare to use them in a FPS 
 game. There are some interesting tech. You could see through walls, increase your accuracy, fly 
 in the air and more. You have the selection to choose 4 races: Human, Elf, Dwarf, and Troll. Each 
 have their own drawback and strength. Shadowrun is also balanced in everything. There's really 
 no need to complain about cheapness.
  
  The graphics aren't the best. It's solid. I find the spells to be very colorful though.
  
  
 The sounds are perfect. They feel right for the guns, spells, tech, and the voice acting by your 
 teammates too. There's really not much to say.
  
  The game has no campaign, but nowadays people like to play online games-especially FPS games.
 
  
  This game is like $10-20 bucks and there's a good amount of people that still plays it! You'll 
 find a game in less than a minute. This easily the best Xbox 360 game has to offer when it comes 
 to online gameplay and balance. This game is made to have a lot of enjoyability and you'll see 
 your self thinking about the good times in one year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhoy1
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  I hate this game its so stupid i mean its a multiplayer game that you can only play multiplayer 
 if you have xbox live i mean you can even have two peoplw on the same console playing at the same 
 time. its gameplay is so dull and boring it makes me want to buy this game just so i can throw 
 it out the windoe or somin. Some people seem to love they think how can u not love this game i 
 think you can not like this game i only spent 5 pounds on it and i wish i didnt its just a waste 
 of time for a game its highly repetitive gameplay is so annoying and plus the fact the gameplay 
 isnt even that great its just silly really its a mega waste of time so all i have to say is noone 
 should play shadowrun at all. I played this game for about 5 minutes and after that i couldnt stand 
 it anymore i just wanted to chuck it out the window and hope it just gets wrecked. POINTLESS GAME 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is an interesting genre of fantasy/fps based in Brazil around the year 2300, man kind 
 have evolved into four races, humans, trolls, elves and dwarfs.
  
  First of all, this game has no campaign or story mode mode, so if you don't have live all you can 
 play is matches against bots using about 16 maps, which is still pretty fun, but I'll talk more 
 about that later.
  
  As for the online it's similar to one player, except against other real players, not bots.
  There's 
 also no splitscreen features..
  
  So, in the actual gameplay you start of with a  
 amount of money and you have a choice of weapons, techs and magicks, there are 2 teams, lineage 
 and RNA (bassically blue and red)
  Your given a few seconds to buy all you want and then the match begins, the main aim in most games 
 is to collect the 'artifact' which is wanted by both teams.
  
  There are loads of spells to choose from, these include ressurect (ressurects ally) tree of life, 
 gust, smoke (turns you into smoke making you invincible for a few seconds) and a few more, all 
 these have there own purpose and way to be used.. some of them can be really fun to use, such as 
 teleport (teleport 8 metres in the direction your facing, even through walls) but some can be a 
 bit less exciting to use.
  
  There's also a choice of weapons which includes SMG, rifle, shotgun, sniper rifle, katana, rocket 
 launcher and minigun.
  Techs are rather different, you have gliders (glide you) enhanced vision (see through walls) and 
 many more, it's hard to remember all of them!
  
  Your race also effects how you play, humans are well balanced, trolls are high on hp but slow in 
 attacking, elves are quick but weak, they also recover their own hp, dwarfs are fast and strong.
 
  Most people online play as elves.
  
  I have had much fun playing with bots and online, I highly reccomend it, but again, I went away 
 feeling without a campaign or story mode and only around 15 maps to play with it was incomplete.
 
  
  Graphics are obviously as expected for a next gen game, most textures are secure and smooth, animations 
 are great to especially blood on the walls xD
  
  There isn't much music, only on the title screen there's a little techno sci fi kinda theme tune, 
 but thats about it.
  As for vocals.. well you get this robot woman voice telling you whats going on in battle, this 
 can get annoying but sometimes it helps you out a bit.. for example it says: 2 enemy trolls running 
 to base with artifact- then this obviously alerts you to leg it to the enemy base before they reach 
 it and score.
  
  I reccomend shadowrun to anyone even though it feels incomplete, it's especially cheap now so grab 
 it while you can.
  Thanks for reading, goodbye!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Positive
  +Spell casting and upgrades are a cool feature
  
  Negetive
  -Seriously lacks content 
  -No campaign or decent single player mode
  -Poor graphics
  
 
  First things first is that Shadowrun is a game made for xbox live. So if you don't have xbox live 
 your best not to get this or your going to be pretty disappointed. Its pretty cool though, it kinda 
 takes a resemblance to Counterstrike. There are two modes 3 modes to choose from: training which 
 is just learning how to play the game and stuff, offline game but it's not very good due to the 
 crappy AI but what this game was made for was its online play. The online play itself is actually 
 quite good while it lasts. It's a team based game were you either play as RNA or Liniage. RNA are 
 like cops the generic good guys and Liniage are more like criminals and bandits. The goal of the 
 game is to retrieve a artifact and take it to a checkpoint, basic stuff really you choose from 
 four races to play as which are human, dwarf, troll or elf. Each class has there own unique powers 
 and special abilities. For instance- Elf's are quick and are good with swords and trolls are big 
 and strong but are quite slow. Before every round you can purchase weapons, magic spells and upgrades 
 which help you ALOT. Buy getting money you have to kill people and capture artifacts. 
  
  That's all there really is to say about Shadowrun that's the whole game, the only flaws really 
 is that the graphics are pretty poor, there not quite up to 360 to be honest, there aren't a lot 
 of maps to choose from and most of them are not very good. The sound is OK, not that bad, weapons 
 sound kinda cheap and like toys for my taste, voice acting is alright.
  
  Anyone who likes Counterstrike should check out Shadowrun. Its not the best online multilayer game 
 you will ever play but its worth renting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guppieface
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, Now is the time of GoW2 and CoD World at War. There are so many hyped up games on the market 
 today, and I have owned almost all of them. Yet every day, I still find myself absorbed by Shadowrun's 
 amazing team multiplayer. It is balanced perfectly, and skilled players will have no trouble playing 
 well with any of the races, and certain maps call for differing strategies. The battles are the 
 most intense I have ever played in a multiplayer game, assuming you have no bonehead preteens running 
 around all the time trying to be ninjas, team killing and in general bratting out. I have the most 
 fun in the morning where I play with Japanese gamers, who know how to play as a team. If you have 
 a live connection, just try this game and you will soon see that the only "should have been" (which 
 everybody on gamespot seems to be copying from each others' reviews) is that this "should have 
 had" as much hype as Halo 3 or Gears 2, both inferior multiplayer games. Also, the lackluster single 
 player (even as co-op) in Gears 2 was very disappointing, and Halo 3 left me and my friends wondering 
 why people act like its so great. Shadowrun is not a single player type of game, and no it does 
 not use the same material as pen and paper Shadowrun, but I don't understand why that would be 
 relevant to anyone other than Comic Book-Guy geeks like J. Gerstmann (Thankfully he's gone from 
 Gamespot) . TRY THIS GAME IF YOU LIKE TEAM MULTIPLAYER, IT WILL AMAZE YOU. And for god's sake, stop 
 thinking like lemmings: just because someone gives you their opinion 1st and loud does not mean 
 that their opinion should guide your thinking, try Shadowrun you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameJunkieKyle
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  It's very easy to see why a title like Shadowrun is overllooked so often. there's no single player 
 at all, and it's easy for a 360 first person shooter to be overshadowed by the more popular titles 
 such as Halo, Gears of War or Call of Duty. Despite all this, Shadowrun offers unique styles of 
 gameplay that no other games have done before. 
  
  The game combines modern weaponry such as guns and technology with magic, which may sound kind 
 of weird, but it gives the game a lot of interesting and cool gameplay that no other game has attempted 
 before. During games, you earn money that you can use to buy more upgrades, weapons and magic that 
 you can deck out your character with in between rounds. I personally, loved this because everyone 
 had a different style of play. Some players would save up to become a healer, while others will 
 stock up on guns and ammo.
  
  There are four different races to choose from. Human, Elves, Trolls and Dwarves. Each have their 
 own special skills and make each players style, even more different. Shadowrun is like a First 
 Person Shooter with RPG elements. 
  
  Unfortunately, Shadowrun only has two different gametypes and a small number of maps. This should 
 have stopped anyone from buying Shadowrun back when it was sixty dollars. Luckily, you can get 
 Shadowrun for about ten to fifteen bucks at most electronic stores now. It offers a unique type 
 of multiplayer that's fun and different and definitely worth the bargain bin price it sells for 
 now.
  
  Good: Unique and addicting multiplayer. Lots of customization possibilities, available at a low 
 price
  
  Bad: No singleplsyer, Few game variants, server issues
  
  Final Score: 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ47
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Are you tired of playing Halo online? Tired of your plain old death matches? Well look no further 
 because Shadowrun is your game. This game has all the ingredients to make a good FPS. However, 
 there are a few 'bugs' in the game that may make people think twice before purchase.
  Shadowrun is about struggle for control. The rouge, rag-tag faction, known as Lineage, has stolen 
 magic and plans to distribute to the overall population of the world. RNA however, a security division, 
 wants to keep it from the wrong hands. That is pretty much the story of Shadowrun, the little bit 
 it has. The game has no depth in the storyline at all and doesn't offer much as far as the Single 
 Player Campaign goes. There are only 6 missions which are more so tutorials then missions. The 
 rest of the game is mostly online. So for those Xbox 360 people out there, you better have a gold 
 membership, because this game is online.
  The game play is unique and is fast paced. There are 4 different species you can play as; Humans, 
 Elves, Trolls, & Dwarves. All with their own unique abilities.
  At the start of every match, you get to chose if you want a weapon better then a pistol, or some 
 magic, or technology. The wide variety of weapons range from the shotgun, to the katana. The magic 
 in the game can get very fun and can tilt the scale in your favor. You can resurrect your teammates, 
 summon minions, and much more. The technology in the game is new to the world of gaming. You can 
 purchase a glider to help you soar to new heights, vision enhancer, or wired reflexes that juices 
 your system so you can reload faster, move faster, and can even block bullets with a katana. After 
 each round, based on your performance, you can earn money to purchase more items for the battle. 
 However, should you purchase a weapon and die, you will have to purchase that weapon again. The 
 magic and technology is a permanent, one-time payment.
  The game styles are a bit limited however, as you can only play 3 different games. Extraction, 
 both teams attempt to secure the artifact to their extraction point. Raid, Lineage attempts to 
 secure and extract the artifact while RNA attempts to stop them. And finally, Attrition, kill everyone 
 on the other team. Those are the only 3 types of game plays. There are many levels to play them 
 on, but if you played on one level, you've played them all. Also, you can not download more maps 
 and so are limited to your options.
  Due to this games awesome game play yet the worst variety, I rate this game a 6/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arsenal_IV
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard it was coming out I was crazy over it. Magic AND guns? Too cool. Lineage Rebels 
 seeking the magic while R. N. A. Agents are fighting to control it. Sounds really awesome. That was..... 
 until I actually turned on my 360 and closed the disc tray. The loading screen pops up. I go through 
 the tutorial. Then I get pissed. There is no story mode to this game. WTF?! Who could you create 
 something that has the makings of being a great game. I know Team Fortress 2 doesn't have a story 
 mode, but thats okay. It wouldn't be a good game if it had one. Shadowrun is the other way around. 
 It would have been gold if it had one. This game is like Counter Strike and WoW mixed into one, 
 but without the fun and awesomeness of both. I really didn't like it and was mad that I bought 
 it. If you want to play it, rent it. Its not even worth the 20 bucks it is now. Its unbalanced 
 and its the same 4 maps over and over and over. Don't believe the hype folks. Just go get TF2 if 
 you want some Multiplayer fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkElf2112
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun may be the most polarizing game in the business. It's easy to see why. The game is very 
 limited in scope but may provide more entertainment than games that follow a more conventional 
 template.
  
  Gameplay: Shadowrun is a strictly online multiplayer game with no single player story at all. Furthermore, 
 even this is limited to two variations of Capture The Flag (or artifact in this case) . This on 
 it's face may sound completely unplayable but you would be wrong, in fact, there is a great deal 
 involved in this simple format.
  You choose between four races: Human, Elf, Dwarf, and Troll. Each one has it's own unique benefits 
 and limitations. Each has it's merits and can be a lot of fun. You will mix in different weapons 
 and magical abilities that will make you want to try each one before settling on a favorite.
  The gametypes, as said before, are a form of capture/defense of your artifact. You can of course 
 go old school and simply kill the opposing team. This is done on a decent number of different maps 
 that are small but suitable for what you're doing.
  
  Graphics: In fairness, this is an older title from a now defunct studio. The game is viewed from 
 mostly a first person perspective. It's not stellar but the game doesn't look bad either. 
  
  You can pick this game up very cheap just about anywhere. In my opinion, it's a steal for the 
 price. With the right people the game is a blast. Despite the age of the game and the fact that 
 it is no longer being supported by a developer, there is a very sizable community still playing 
 this game. If you catch Shadowrun fever you will have no trouble finding a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caged_Cobra
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game is the best. This is the best game i have ever put into my xbox 360. I love the online 
 play and the glitches are cool too. I would tell anybody with 15$ to get this game. As long as you 
 take training you will love it. I love how you can completly lag out a room if someone is making 
 you mad. The acheviements are easy and hard only a few are hard. The races are awsome. I have mastered 
 this game i can do almost everything. I only have 5 more acheviements until I reach 1000/1000 gamerscore. I 
 have had 2 months to get gamerscore and so far i am almost done. I highly recommend this game just 
 not for kids there really crappy at it and anoying.
  Man you have to type a lot of stuff for a reveiw. This game is really good for older gamers. It is 
 highly addictive its like a drug it is freaking awsome the game of the century in my personal opinion. Thank 
 you very much for reading my review it took like 30 minutes to write this. Ha ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyguymad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the best games out there. Im not one to write reviews but after playing 
 this games since june 07 I find myself still playing this game. Its by far 1 of the best FPS out 
 there. It really could have been the best had they just would have released more maps, some more 
 upgrades. Glide across a room then teleport to a high ledge above everyone (all while shooting 
 and using gust (an ability to push people away) . There are trolls, elves, dwarfs, and humans. There 
 are guns rangeing from pistol, shotgun, SMG, sword, RPG and more. Theres magic like teleport, smoke, gust. 
 There are techs . This game just offers so much. Now with it being so cheap I think its A MUST 
 HAVE for ANY 360 owner. Maybe one day they will make another shadowrun. Even thou the company split, 
 someone might make something close to it Post your comments fight for your games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samus_Player69
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:45 am PT
Review:  This game is the best. This is the best game i have ever put into my xbox 360. I love the online 
 play and the glitches are cool too. I would tell anybody with 15$ to get this game. As long as you 
 take training you will love it. I love how you can completly lag out a room if someone is making 
 you mad. The acheviements are easy and hard only a few are hard. The races are awsome. I have mastered 
 this game i can do almost everything. I only have 5 more acheviements until I reach 1000/1000 gamerscore. I 
 have had 2 months to get gamerscore and so far i am almost done. I highly recommend this game just 
 not for kids there really crappy at it and anoying.
  Man you have to type a lot of stuff for a reveiw. This game is really good for older gamers. It is 
 highly addictive its like a drug it is freaking awsome the game of the century in my personal opinion. Thank 
 you very much for reading my review it took like 30 minutes to write this. Ha ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a game that seems to have a lot of potential. In the end, though, it isn't fully exploited. 
 The game mixes fantasy games and sci-fi shooters in a marriage that should be any nerds dream, 
 and it does so very well. When you go online the game is solid. The problem is that there are only 
 3 game modes. So, after completing the tutorials and playing a few matches online, you'll be wondering 
 where the rest of the game is. Sadly that is a question the will forever remain unanswered.
  
  Shadowrun is set in a fictional future where, in addition to technological discoveries, magic 
 is uncovered for the first time in 5000 years. The discovery of magic lead opposing forces into 
 war and also created different races of meta-humans. As the player, you're fighting for the forces 
 of RNA or Lineage for control of magical artifacts simply called "artifacts" (creative, right?) . 
 Anyway, the story doesn't matter at all and serves only as an excuse for you to be shooting at 
 other players online.
  
  When you join a match you'll be placed on a team. At the beginning of each round you'll have a 
 chance to buy your choice of weapons or skills. For anyone who has played Counter Strike, that 
 should be pretty familiar. Then you'll set off to destroy the opposing team. Should you be killed 
 you will not respawn, but you can rejoin the fight if one of your team members revives you. Once 
 the game gets going there will be people flying and teleporting around, as well as shooting and 
 healing, killing and reviving. It is a lot to wrap your mind around and that is the real strength 
 of Shadowrun.
  
  In the game there are four races, human, elf, dwarf, and troll. Each race has its own advantages 
 and they are all balanced very well. In addition to the races there are Tech and Magic... oh and 
 of course guns too. Magic skills allow you to heal team mates, or teleport, or even summon minions 
 and more. Tech abilities allow you to use a glider, or have radar like vision, or improve your 
 speed, or aim better. As for weapons there is your standard fair of pistol, machine gun, rifle, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle, mini-gun, rockets, and (maybe not so standard) katana. When you start messing 
 around with Race/Skill/Weapon combos then you start to understand Shadowrun's complexity, and its 
 uniqueness. From my experience it is easy to make a combination you like, but difficult to master 
 all the different aspects of what your enemy may be doing at any given time.
  
  So, the game is totally based around team play and, as I previously mentioned, there is an astounding 
 3 different modes to play and that might even be brought down to two. Each map is set up as either 
 a Extraction Map or a Raid Map, and Extraction Maps you can't play Raid on and vise-versa. Extraction 
 has both teams fighting to bring the artifact back to their base, while in Raid only Lineage tries 
 to capture the flag while RNA tries to protect it. In either of these game modes if one team eliminates 
 all players on the other team, they win the round regardless of the artifact. The third game type, 
 availible on all maps, is called Attrition, where the objective is to kill the other team. In Attrition 
 the artifact stays on the map, but only serves as a kind of power-up that either team can use. 
 While all of these game modes are fun they're not very diverse and I really feel the game could 
 use more modes to choose from.
  
  Graphically the game does pretty well, but there are a few issues. Each team has a different look 
 for the different races, but other that that there is no difference between characters. You can't 
 change your clothes or looks in the slightest way, there isn't even a choice to change gender (everyone 
 is male) . The developers also failed to put in a ladder climbing animation for some unknown reason. 
 Still, everything looks good and holds up, even with 16 players quickly moving around and using 
 magic and skills.
  
  Sound is pretty simple in the game. I don't know that there is much to say on it. It isn't bad 
 or distracting, but its not something you'll be looking for the soundtrack for. One thing the game 
 does that I appreciate, is that it gives you auditory warnings as to where enemies are and where 
 your team mates are fighting. Some people might find that annoying, but it isn't overdone, so I'm 
 glad they included it. As far as sound effects go everything sounds like it should.
  
  In the end, Shadowrun is a fun, but limited game. Everything it does works well, but you might 
 get sick of what is really just two different types of matches. The game can actually be picked 
 up fairly cheap now, especially if you get it used. If you're the kind of person who enjoys playing 
 games like Counter Strike endlessly and want to try something different you need this game. For 
 everyone else, you wont be hurting yourself if you decide to skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo of Shadowrun, to see how good of a game it is. Lots of people said it was 
 a good game, but not worth $60. Now, about a year later, I got this game for $14 bucks, and it 
 is a pretty good game.
  
  Shadowrun was a rpg, but now it has turned into a multi player game. The game style is a lot like 
 Counter Strike. If you die, you are out for the round, unless some resurrects you. The way you 
 can make sure that a person does not get resurrected is by shooting their body until they are dead. 
 This game is also a lot easier to pick up then Counter Strike, because you do not die nearly as 
 fast in this game. Another thing like Counter Strike is that you buy weapons for the round. You 
 can also buy magic, like the tree of life, and the ability to teleport, and tech, like a hang glider.
 
  
  The single player in Shadowrun is just a bot mode, which really is not fun, so if you do not have 
 Xbox Live then do not bother getting this game.
  
  There are four races you can pick from in Shadowrun. Human, Elf, Troll, Dwarf. Each races has pros 
 and cons. Like elves are weak, and can not take a lot of shots, but they are fasted, and the can 
 regenerate health. Trolls are tough, and as they get shot, their shield builds up, but they move 
 slower and slower.
  
  The graphics in Shadowrun look good. The graphics look a bit cartoony, and they do not compare 
 to other games that came out at that time. One thing that looks bad in Shadowrun is when some one 
 climbs a ladder. Instead of actually climbing up the ladder, you more of just slide up the ladder, 
 when you see some one else going up a ladder, it looks really funny.
  
  The sound in Shadowrun is pretty good. The music at the begging cut scene before the start scene 
 sounds good. The weapons when they fire sound alright.
  
  Over all Shadowrun is a good multi player game, that may of not been worth $60 , but now that it 
 is cheaper, you may want ot give it a try. I would of probably gave Shadowrun a low Seven or high 
 six if I paid $60 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kelble
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 15, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  
  
  What do you get when you leave an eight-year-old on crack in the middle of a newly constructed 
 school with a pile of grade A Explosives? First, you would probably be responsible for the destruction 
 of a newly constructed school. Second, you would have to pay quite a large amount of money to settle 
 any lawsuits. What you wouldn't get would be Shadowrun. Did you seriously think I was going somewhere 
 with that?
  Anyway, Shadowrun is an FPS created from the ground up for the X-Box 360 and Vista by FASA Studios. 
 The goal of the game was to create an FPS shooter, naturally. The second goal was to make a game 
 that both 360 players and Vista players could play together. I personally didn't care for this 
 selling point, but somebody might be.
  Shadowrun has a very unique take on the standard FPS. Along with the usual firearms such as pistols, 
 sub-machine guns, sniper rifles, etc; the game also utilizes some unusual weapons such as a mini-gun 
 or the katana. At first glance I considered the Katana to be useless. However, the game is balanced 
 so excellently that the Katana is one of the best weapons in the game. Any weapon could be the 
 best or worst, depending on the user.
  Another main part of the game is the use of both magic and tech. Over-all there are seven Magic 
 abilities and five tech abilities. Each ability, both tech and magic, does something unique, but 
 magic is more geared to hindering your opponents. Example, you could cast a magic ability called 
 smoke. The effect would leave you unharmed unless by another spell "gust", or by running out of 
 essence. (Essence is how much magic the user can use.) There is always at least one counter to 
 an ability.
  On the other side of the spectrum is tech. Though there are fewer in number, which encourages magic, 
 tech also blocks some essence. Tech is mostly for personal use and most do not hinder the enemy. 
 One of the best tech "Wired Reflexes" makes your character run faster, jump higher, and reload 
 faster. The best part of the tech is that when used with the Katana, you can block incoming fire.
 
  Game play is fast-pace and no two matches are the same. The magic abilities encourage varying 
 game play. One game is broken into rounds, maximum of 11. A team needs 6 rounds to win the game. 
 Among those games you will only play three game modes on a few maps. This is where the game is 
 lacking. Even though the game play is unique and good old fashioned fun, there are just not enough 
 maps or gametypes.
  The game is also lacking a single-player story mode. A single-player RPG style game would have 
 been a perfect addition. But the RPG style buying and equipping of skills on online play more than 
 makes up for that. Overall the game is fun but lacking. That is all that's preventing it from a 
 perfect score. It's a shame that this game isn't recognized for what it truly is and that it didn't 
 sell better than what it's worth. 
  Kelble
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: theloboig44
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking I would get a game for easy achievements and about a day of good game 
 play, But as I turns out the game's story is kind of boring and the achievements are hard to get, 
 But then I played my first Xbox live match and it was Awesome. The matches combined all the fun 
 of a classic RPG with the fast intense action of a well thought out first person shooter. I like 
 the way that before each match start you get to choose what kind of equipment you want to have 
 and how you have to play a few matches to earn money before you can get better weapons it keeps 
 it fair. Overall I think Shadowrun is a very good game for its multiplayer and is a definite game 
 you should rent if not buy. this game should keep you busy for a least a week just playing the 
 same multiplayer matches over and over because it always different each match. Shadowrun is a highly 
 addicting game that should keep even the most talented gamers busy for awhile. So i give shadowrun 
 a flat 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FuriousThor
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game was by far my favorite game on the 360 to date. Forgetting that there was not a single 
 player campaign in this game is was still worth buying. What this game did right it did better 
 than any other game in its class. I had three friends that I played this game with a lot and we 
 all had different ideas to what made a good combination of magic and weapons, and it wasn't just 
 us. Everything was so even in this game that everyone had a chance to always be on the winning 
 team, sadly all could not. The only downfall I found this game to have was that for a multiplayer 
 game only it only had 12 maps. It should have had more than that. And its too bad that the studio 
 went out of business because for the people playing this game we were hoping for some downloads 
 that just never came. With that said it is easily a 10 in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarqKiller
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  I will admit, I was seriously hyped for this game. It sounded amazing: Another Shadowrun game, 
 a succesor to one of the most classic and coolest RPGs I ever played from the SNES/Genesis era. 
 When it came out, I was pumped, but when I got home and popped in the disc, played the tutorial 
 and a couple rounds, three words crossed my mind: What is this? 
  
  
  Now I know: watered-down, more-generic-than-Halo version of Counter Strike with magic, and I've 
 never even played CS (GASP!) but its obvious. Sure, its fun for the first few rounds, but it gets 
 VERY boring after a while. Heres a round in a nutshell "Round Start! Buy weapons n' spells, run 
 forward, teleport through wall, shoot guy, get shot, watch dude go up ladder with lame ass animation 
 (Climbing ladder animation: Running animation slowed down. Brilliant *Sarcasm*) Respawn, Teleport 
 through wall, get flag, get owned, respawn, teleport through wall, kill people and watch excessive 
 amounts of blood spurt out of them, gain flag, get owned, and repeat". though your round will mostly 
 play out in a different order, it still is the exact same thing over and over, not to mention Elves 
 are the cheapest asses in the game because the can regenerate health when out of the action for 
 a short time, now I havent played a true online match, but I dont need to play a full online match 
 to know that everyone uses the elves or Trolls. Anyways, Im just gonna rate this game in a different 
 fashion than I usually do and see if it works out.
  
  Gameplay: 5 out of 10
  
  As I've said before, the Gameplay is boring and repetitive after the first few rounds and you just 
 wanna play something else after a while. And after an even longer time of playing it you will just 
 be embarassed to even have it in your household. It's as generic as Halo and as boring as Test 
 Drive Unlimited. If your going to play it, rent it first.
  
  Sound: 7 out of 10
  
  Nothin' special, though they could've used actuall voice acting for informing other players of 
 your area's enemy density etc. rather than a female computer voice, can you imagine everyone in 
 Starcraft having a female computer voice?
  
  Controls: 7 out of 10
  
  Once again, nothin' special, standard controls for a shooter, and if their not, then sue me because 
 I haven't touched or even seen the game for over a month.
  
  Graphics: 7 out of 10
  
  Yet again, nothing special, It looks decent for a 360 game, who cares, It still sucks.
  
  Overall, 
 I really didn't like this game, it was boring and generic in my opinion, I won't be playing it 
 unless I get REALLY bored and my copy of Orange Box, COD 4, Rainbow Six Vegas, Mass Effect, GRAW 
 2 and GTA IV (considering by the time I ever even lay a finger on the game again I'll be done GTA 
 IV) are missing or borrowed, which has a possibility of, oh, I don't know, I'd say between ZERO 
 and -100%. So really, I won't be playing this game ever again unless challenged, So I suggest getting 
 Orange Box or Call Of Duty 4 if your looking for good shooters, though it is only 'bot 20 bucks 
 now, so go ahead and buy it. but My personal opinion is that this game is a generic shooter with 
 the Shadowrun licence slapped on it. And if you disagree, remember: it's only my personal opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vrygar777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This is actually one of the best multiplayer games around, it incorporates teamwork and encourages 
 players to try out different things. Why then is it only pretty good? Simple my friend: Its only 
 an online game.
  Online only eh? This enough is strong enough to make a few people go crazy and catch it on fire. 
 I was expecting some crazy game where corporate scumbags go aroung killing all these freedom fighters 
 in a crazy campaign. Whoops!!! There goes that idea.
  Whats the online like then, its fun... until you die. No my friends this isnt your traditional FPS, 
 when you die you stare at your dead body until someone resurrects you with magic. Of course you 
 can stare at other peoples dead bodies, why not have a big corpse fest? The matches are fun dont 
 get me wrong, but dieing just sucks. You die, there goes the fun. So you might be asking "But Vrygar, 
 Master Chief wouldnt die like a little wussy, he could go on forever." Master Chief doesnt need 
 teamwork, in fact this is pretty much known to you since Halo 1. So how do you last longer??? Use 
 teamwork. Dont run around alone, lone wolves are the first to die.
  Spells are great ways to help out the team. You can spawn a healing tree to save your allies from 
 an early grave, or summon a big monster to guard the entrance to that all-important flag room. 
 Creativity is the key, being preicse is also the key.
  Theres four races: Humans (More tech than magic) , Elves (Mostly magical, but fragile to boot) , Dwarves (Magic 
 suckers [literally suckers] that negate your magic abilitys) and Trolls (not that magical but is 
 a tank) .
  There is Bot matches and they are pretty challenging, of course there bullet fodder at lower difficulties.
 
  This is a great game, but the lack of more offline modes made it pretty much a useless game unless 
 you have XBL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeknoDrago
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I heard Microsoft was going to make a Shadowrun game I was eagerly waiting to purchase 
 it. To be honest, I was disappointed. I'm a huge fan of the Shadowrun novels; I get the books wherever 
 I can. But all Microsoft did was make a first person shooter & slap the Shadowrun name on it. If 
 you're a fan of the FPS genre, then you're likely to enjoy the game. I believe it would have been 
 better as a role playing game.
  The graphics are clean & it's very nicely done. For me the gameplay was difficult. The back of 
 the box is confusing. It doesn't tell you it's an FPS right off the bat. Unfortunately I learned 
 the hard way. In retrospect I wish I'd have rented it & not waste $50. 
  But as I said earlier, FPS gamers will most likely enjoy this game. RPG gamers, not so much. I 
 recommend renting it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo3freak0231
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  This game looked like it would be aweful plain and simple, but it grows on you. As i played it turned 
 out to be really good. There is no single player campaign which is kinda a let down but hey the 
 multiplayer is great. There are tutorials which help with knowing what you are doing and how to 
 effectively use your weapons, tech, and magic.
  
  The way you earn money is by killing people and destroying there bodies so they can't be ressurected, 
 and getting the artifact to the extration point ect. There are eight weapons: pistol, smg, rifle, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle, katana, minigun, and rocket launcher. There are loads of magic and tech 
 abilities which can be very useful and fun to use.
  
  If you are looking for a good fps than get this one. The graphics are pretty good, gameplay if 
 amazing, and is a heck of alot of fun. I give it a 9.0. At first you might not like it, but if 
 you keep at it you will grow to love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinakathepimp
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that there is no campaign and the closest thing to single player is a match 
 against computer controlled bots (which isn't very exciting) . However, if you have xbox live and 
 like good multiplayer games, then this game is for you.
  
  It's a first person shooter with some magic and technology mixed in. You can pick between 4 different 
 but balanced races, each with their own pros and cons. 
  
  The human is pretty average and begins with a little bit of extra cash. They have an ability that 
 causes them to not lose any essence slots from techs.
  
  The elf is fastest but can't take much damage. They also have the ability to slowly regain health 
 over time when they are not taking damage.
  
  The troll is slowest but can take the most damage. When they're shot they have spikes come out 
 which helps withstand damage (unless they don't have any essence) . On the down side, they have 
 the least amount of essence of all the races.
  
  The dwarf is faster than the troll and hard to hit because of its small size. They have the most 
 essence and can drain essence of other players; however, the essence refills at a very slow rate.
 
  
  With a counterstrike style of gameplay, you earn money every round (depending on your performance) 
 to purchase guns, magic, or techs. The magic includes: a teleporting spell, a spell that turns 
 you into smoke (which avoids damage) , a spell that sends out a gust of wind that can blow people 
 off cliffs (and damage people in smoke) , a spell that creates spikes to hinder your opponents movement, 
 a spell that summons a beast that attacks enemies, a spell to revive fallen teammates, and a spell 
 that creates a tree that heals nearby players. This results in a combination of teamwork, strategy, 
 and skill. 
  
  There are 3 different types of multiplayer games. They include: a regular deathmatch, a neutral 
 flag, and an offense/defense capture the flag. There a total of 9 maps, which isn't all that much. 
 Although the lack of any dlc is a little disappointing, the multiplayer is still fun and addicting. 
 Honestly, the full $60 was a little pricey, but now that it is $30, it's a great deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkknight21
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok so Shadowrun was probably my second favorite game of last summer next to The Darkness. Shadowrn 
 was an under the radar game as far as what it was about. With a little research it was based on 
 a comic book and some games from older systems. Unfortunately there was absolutely no story mode 
 at all in Shadowrun which immediately lowers my opinion of the of the game. With that said it did 
 have a pretty solid multi player experience. There were a few graphic glitches like when your character 
 would go up ladders it would be like they were floating next to the ladder not climbing it. The 
 grenades are also very inconsistent which is very frusturating when you throw a grenade right next 
 to a guy and they live but they throw a grenade that's a mile away and you die instantly. The class 
 system is interesting but it seems like they could have added some customisation to the appearance 
 of the characters at least. They also could have added a few more classes to add more depth to 
 the game which would have added more strategy to the games. The weapons, spells, and "tech" items 
 work very well in the game and it is the only category, in my opinion, that shadowrun goes in depth 
 enough to satisfy gamers. There aren't very many maps, especially for a multi player only game, 
 and the maps are not all unique. It would be nice to know some sort of backstory because without 
 it you really don't know what you are fighting for. Basically, Shadowrun is pretty solid game in 
 which the developers did not go in depth enough to really make it a great game. It is fun to play 
 but due to the lack of depth and story I would lose interest after a week of playing it. Shadowrun 
 is a good game that I reccomend to anyone looking for some achievments and a fun multi player that 
 will last for two or three months. Even though I enjoy this game I feel that it should have been 
 released as a thirty or fourty dollar game because of the lack of storymode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfreak937
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  Most people who say this game is bad only play it for an hour, and I can understand why. You can't 
 respawn, its light on content, you can't change your race during a match, and the shooting isnt 
 that great, its fun but not enough to match up to a game like halo or call of duty 4.
  
  However the realy brilliant thing about this game is the magic and tech abilitys (yes I know I 
 spelt that wrong) . There are tones of things you can do with these powers. Likerevive and faster 
 reflexes, more health summoning demons to fight for you and other cool things. Alot of the time 
 you will find this game plays out more like an rpg than a shooter. You might see somebody run into 
 combat letting fly lots of magical powersand spells in a battle with the other player until eventually 
 one player out smarts the other and manages to catch him in a bunch of magical spikes, then whip 
 out his pistol to finish his opponent off.
  
  If you die then you don't respawn, but you can switch to other players playing. But the likelyhood 
 is eventually somebody will come along and ressurect you. This feature is annoying at times but 
 in the long run it makes the game more fun.
  
  I don't want to ruin lots of other cool suprises the game has in wait so here I will jus say GIVE 
 THIS GAME A CHANCE BEFORE YOU DECIDE ITS RUBISH. If you play with it for a while you WILL start 
 to like it more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOYB0XX
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 19, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a Counter Strike-esque fast paced FPS that is enjoyable and fun at first, but then 
 loses it's flavor, if you will, after awhile. The player has a choice of races to choose from: 
 Troll, Elf, Human, or Dwarf. Each with their own strengths and weaknesses. What I didn't like about 
 the game was the way it was played. What I mean is I found myself using the same strategy over 
 and over again and the game type encourages that - in a way. In other shooters like Gears of War, 
 for instance, the variety of game types forces the player to use multiple strategies of survival. 
 With Shadowrun it's strictly a capture the flag match. Either team "A" will have to defend while 
 team "B" captures, or both teams will fight to capture the artifact. (The flag)
  
  The weapons are varied from shotguns, pistols, samuri swords, sniper rifles, etc. But the novelty 
 of the game wears thin after awhile because of the two game types that is offered. My recommendation? 
 Rent it or if your so inclined on picking this title up buy it used at your local video game store. 
 Don't pay full price for half a game like I did. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper_of_Hades
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing shadowrun for almost three months now, and it only gets better as time goes 
 on. At first, the game is sometimes confusing, and the controls take some time to get used to. 
 Best way to sum it up would be a first person shooter, with magic and technology. Each game has 
 a maximum of 11 rounds. a team needs to win six rounds to win the game. You get a starting amount 
 of money at the beginning of the game, but to get more, you will need to get kills, or anything 
 else to help your team. you use this money to get magic, technology, and weapons. 
  
  There are four different races, all very distinct and easy to identify in a fraction of a second 
 in mid game. To be good at this game, you will need to know how to play against each race, and 
 how to use your favorite race's. 
  
  The technology and magic is what makes the game what it is, they are very well balanced. Most of 
 the magic and technology have offensive uses, and defensive uses. The weapons are also quite even. 
 The wide selection of magic and tech will never leave you bored. Every piece of magic and tech 
 have a counter, so you will never feel helpless.
  
  I gave this game a 9/10, that is because it had no split screen, or campaign. They set it up perfectly 
 to have the most awesome story mode of 2007, but they decided not to build on it, i basically cried 
 for weeks. . . kind of. If you are getting bored of other games and looking for something fresh, 
 pick up shadowrun, (not for those gamers that like solo games) . Xbox live is almost essential to 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madbhal402
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun was Not Exactly Liked by the Critics But do not Belive them . It is a very Good  
 Shooter. There is a small story line here, Something about A big corporation named RNA Global and 
 Rebels named the Lineage fighting over Aritifacts in Brazil But you Quickly forget that and Get 
 into the Action. There are many Races to PLay as such as Elves, Dwarfes, Humans, and Trools. The 
 toughest are trools, and Elves are Fast and Humans are even with speed and Toughness. This Game 
 may seem like a very Generic shooter but it is not. There is Magic in this game the Power to teleport, 
 Cast Healing trees, Reserect dead Allies, or summon minions to kill Foes and Many other Powers, 
 there are 9 maps and 3 smaller versions of these maps to satisfie you. But there is only 3 modes 
 to it Capture the Flag, Defend or take the Flag, Or a regular Team deathmatch. This makes the Game 
 Really stale after awhile. Also there will be no DLC either. But still Shadowrun is a good game 
 and I reccemend this game to anyone who the Team online shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tskpro21
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2008 3:04 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the coolest first person shooters I have ever played. I especially like the 
 innovative way that the game allows you to play during combat. The teleport magic is probably the 
 most awesome thing about this game. The other magics and techs are cool too, for example if your 
 under attack you can quickly go smoke. Better yet, why not go on the offensive against someone 
 using smoke and gust them away. The graphics in this game are not top notch, but the gameplay more 
 than makes up for that. I love the fast pace gun battles that make this game really shine in my 
 eyes. I still play it pretty regularly. It does have a learning curve, but after you play the tutorials, 
 you should be pretty good. The map selection isn't very big, but again the innovative gameplay 
 alone makes up for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VP-2247
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  In Shadowrun, there is basically no story/no single player. The only story, is that the RNA have 
 found some magic and the Lineage want to retrieve it back (something along those lines) . THis game 
 is an FPS shooter, just pure action and fun no big nerd RPG elements.
  
  This Game may only be Multiplayer only, but it performs its duty for multiplayer with flying colors. 
 I dont find much lag, the graphics are smooth online, and the sound is what you expect. I am not 
 saying its the perfect game, but it is only 20 dollars and its so much fun I really am telling 
 you all to buy this game. 
  
  In the Multiplayer, there are 3 gametypes. One is a straighup team deathmatch, Another is like 
 Attack and Defend (one team defends the flag, while the other team tries to take it) , the other 
 game mode there is only one Flag in the middle of the map and you have to return it to your base.
 
  
  The gamplay consists of the player choosing his favorite race whether its human (The Humans are 
 quick AND durable but isnt the master of them, hes basically the all-around good at everything 
 type of character) , the Elf (The Elf is fast and quick, but can get hurt easily when an contacts 
 the Elf) , the Troll (The Troll is big and slow, but can lift heavy guns easily and can take a lot 
 of damage) , The Dwarf (The Dwarf is like the human where its decently fast and can take damge, 
 but has the most magic of all the races.
  
  If you read my section on Races, you would know that i talked about Magic and Tech. Now Each player 
 can equip 3 powers (can be either a mix of magic or tech) . You can equip 2 magic and 1 tech or 
 vice versa or anything you really want. Magic consists of spells like the ability to teleport through 
 walls, the ability to ressurect fallen teammates, to make a wall of spikes as to hid or dodge incoming 
 foes, a tree to heal you and your allies, a force push like magic, and more. The technology consists 
 of: a glider, the ability to boost your speed and attacking power (basically steriods) , a laser 
 to make your bullets more accurate, and more. You can pick any of th ese and equip them to your 
 quickplay set which is basically if you want to Ressurect a lot, you can set that to your Right 
 Trigger, so you can access it easily. 
  
  All in all, shadowrun is a REAL TIME, NON RPG, FPS. Its not difficult to play, its actually incredibly 
 simple to understand and get the hang of. This game is held down by being named Shadowrun. Hopefully 
 people will realize that this is NOT a nerd game, its a pure fun game. A mix of Counter Strike 
 and Halo with magical abilities. It really is fun and I give it a 9 and im not exaggerating a BIT. 
 BUY IT!!!! You WILL NOT REGRET IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  How is it that a first person shooter geared completely to multiplayer, featuring guns, magic, 
 and different creatures that plays well and is exceptionally customisable can be despised and rejected 
 by so many? My first play of the demo for Shadowrun hooked me instantly, and I bought the full 
 version as soon as possible. Seven months on and it's still my choice pick for online action, though 
 many others would still regard it as strictly an acquired taste. 
  
  This game constantly provides a superior challenge from it's hardcore online community, always 
 pushing you to rethink and re-rethink your strategies, and always search for the perfect combination 
 of magic and tech. You'll end up selecting combinations simply based on what map you're playing, 
 only to discard them for others when the fight is going against you. There's no room for Halo-like 
 jump/shoot random action here... make a wrong move and it's lights out, and you can forget respawns 
 (unless of course you have a teammate willing and able to rez you!) .
  
  Much has been made of the demise of the studio that made this game, but it's a shame that this 
 sad fact alone is enough for a large amount of people to turn their backs on what is one of the 
 best and most engaging experiences Xbox Live has to offer. The small number of maps is a weakpoint, 
 but the depth of gameplay ensures players will still find enough to sink their teeth into. Be a 
 healer, pointman, ninja, sniper, wizard, defender, flag man, scout, or a mix of any - Shadowrun 
 spoils the player for choice when it comes to selecting your role in your team.
  
  And it is very much a team game. Individual players must find their niche in the group quickly, 
 making communication in-game an important and necessary practice. Running in packs can prove to 
 be a successful strategy at times, but can leave you open to losses by sneaky opposition in flag 
 matches. Spread out? Go defensive? Kill all opponents or just try to grab the artifact and run? 
 Each choice is crucial, and you'll need everyone putting in the work if you're to be successful.
 
  
  There are a few areas where Shadowrun could have benefited from a little more work, like climbing 
 animations, and possibly an extra mode or two, but to deny it as an online shooter with class is 
 to do yourself a disservice. When you've had enough of the tacked-on multiplayer modes or shoot-die-respawn 
 broken record of other games, give Shadowrun a try. It's gameplay is comfortable, it's customisation 
 is unrivalled, it's cult-like community is friendly, and if you look around carefully, you'll also 
 find it's price is generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoob_man
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is one of the most competitive shooters out there to date, although the graphics may 
 be lacking and the animations are out right horrible, you won't even notice this because this game 
 is the most deep and best multiplayer game for the 360 . I really want to give this game a perfect 
 10 but there being no single player and some technical issues with the multiplayer and Fasa studios 
 recently closed its doors, Shadowrun gets a 9.0 I highly suggest this game to everyone Buy it now 
 you can get it for $19.99 Used and $29.99 New so what are you waiting for? 
  
  Some may say its Counterstrike
  
  Some may say its World Of Warcraft and Halo mixed but
  
 
  Shadowrun is Shadowrun it has no similarities to WoW except being able to use an elf and troll, 
 It Has nothing like counterstrike gameplay wise except buying weapons and is kind of like Halo 
 but not really anywhere near. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TaintedSaint666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Ok, i was sceptical getting this game because of bad reviews and no campaighn mode (yes, i did 
 spell that wrong) . So I thought, why not? And I'm glad i thought that.
  
  From the moment i played the training modes I knew this game was unique, How many other games allow 
 someone to teleport through a wall or glide over the battle whilst a dwarf is conjuring up minions 
 and someone is cowering underneath a healing tree? Here's a clue: none.
  
  The training is very informative, it's not one of those games that say 'Here's a gun, there's your 
 buttons, figure it out'. After each training session you play a bot match, granted, the bots AI 
 is about the capacity of a squashed elf but it gives you some idea of what a real match is.
  
  The real matches are divided into a number of rounds, in each round one team can win by killing 
 all the other team or delivering the artifact (flag) to their base. There's no respawning in a 
 round, once your dead, you have to wait for a teammate to resurrect you (assuming someone on your 
 team bought resurrection) or for a member of the other team to destroy your body, in which case 
 your out till the next round.
  
  So theres no campaighn mode, so what? It's a brilliant game on it's own. It's just that some people 
 see there's no campiaghn mode and don't give it a proper chance. Roll on the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CronoJKL
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Okay, where to start? Now, I played Shadowrun for the sNes, and that was a great game, I played 
 it for hours and had a whole lot of fun with it... Then I heard they were coming out with Shadowrun 
 for the 360, and I said, "Wow! Great, that could really be a great game."
  I bought the game first chance I had and I walked home reading the book inside, thinking, "Okay, 
 I need that ability, and that, these are some great combos, I really can't wait to get home and 
 play this."
  
  Well, I got home and with shaking hands put it into my 360 disk drive... I started the training, 
 and I'm thinking, "This is a little strange, oh well, I'm sure the game will get better after the 
 training part is over... Little did I know, that the training was basically the entire game.
  
  After about 2 hours painfully boring training, I finally get to the "real game" and I played 
 that for about 5 minutes, stood up, took the CD out of the disk drive, put it back in its case... 
 Then cursed the souls of those that made this awful game into the deepest darkest bowels of Hell 
 for unleashing this terrible blight upon the face of our planet.
  
  Now, There are two ways I can describe this game for you, like Unreal Tournament, only sucks. *Think 
 about that one a bit*
  
  Or this... Think with me if you will. Have you ever seen one of those shows or movies where the 
 man's wife, or child's mother dies, so they then devote their lives to finding some way to bring 
 them back to life, but after conventional means fail they turn to witchcraft and demon worship 
 and sell their souls to Satan who then revives their loved one but their loved one turns into a 
 horrible demon that goes on a kill rampage and the whole time that son or husband is saying, "This 
 isn't what I wanted, what have I done."........... Yeah, that's kinda what this game is like.
 
  
  I'm not sure how to describe it, I could say;
  
  Boring
  Broken
  Check your bargain bins
  Disappointing
  Disastrous
  Rent it first
  Rip off
  Total let 
 down
  Uninspired
  Waste of time
  
  But I think I shall go with, Hard to Describe.
  
  Yeah, to sum it all up, if you are curious, rent it, but for the love of all that is good in 
 this world, don't buy it.
  
  Thanks for reading,
  Da Marque 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dosu178
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Alright don't look away from this game because it has no campaign. Their is a multiplayer sim where 
 you play against bots. The game is fun because the arena type gameplay never gets repetitive and 
 the maps are well done. When you bring up the pregame menu you can choose between two groups, RNA, 
 and The Lineage. Then you select a race and a map. There are four different races, Dwarf, Human, 
 Elf, and Troll. There are only four but there are noticable differences. Such as Humans are average, 
 Elfs can run faster but can take less damage as in Trolls are the opposite they are slower but 
 takes less damage. Dwarves are one of the most useful races because not only are they run at a 
 good speed, and they are hard to hit because of their size. When the game starts a menu comes up 
 on the screen. Here you can choose Weapons, Magic, and Tech. Their are your standard weapons like 
 SMG, Shotgun, Sniper Rifle, Chaingun etc. The spells in the game are stuff like Tree of Life which 
 is a tree that heals anyone that stands near it automatically heals and there is a spell (one of 
 my personal favorites) Summon. What it does is it makes a circle and a beast appears in the middle. 
 Fighting one can be a pain because they can do some damage and they are perfect for guarding territory. 
 There are also tech but the only one I found useful was the Glider. Their are only two game types 
 but the best is Extraction. In this mode you have to go in grab the artifact and basically run 
 like your being chased by fast zombies. The game is really good and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Well, according to Gamespot and other reveiwers of the game, it seems all doom and gloom for Shadowrun.. 
 but the truth is that this is FPS that has a decent twist, buying Magic and Tech abilities to suit 
 best your style of fighting it out in the slums or skyscrapers of Santos, yes it does seem very 
 CounterStrike in all respects but it does pay of in battles, to deliver the finishing blow or to 
 escape near death.
  On the overall good hand of Shadowrun is easily the variety of Tech and Magic abilities which mix 
 the game up and make things very unique and interesting... also the game has four different races 
 with themselves having good and negative aspects, the races being Humans, Elves, Trolls and Dwarves.
 
  The Human player can reduce the penalty of tech abilities (you have an essence bar which is made 
 up of a certain amount of circular pellets) , but, overall they have very little essence anyway.
 
  The Elven player can heal themselves (without the use of essence) if they are not being shot at 
 and they also have a quick speed, a handy feature to say their setback is that they have little 
 life so getting out of a sticky situation is made a little easier but time is limited.
  The Troll player has the advantage of being able to toughen its skin so that they take little damage 
 compared to the other races, (however this does require essence) but their particular disadvantage 
 is that they are less agile and slow in combat.
  The Dwarven player has the most essence so that they can spend more at any given time, making this 
 an obvious advantage, but their setback is that it takes forever to replenish, but then again they 
 can absorb it from other players.
  The bad points of this game are more on the servers, as they are extremely annoying as they dont 
 really go by what you may set as your preferences for online gaming (preferences being the map, 
 game type etc) and also that, saying there is NO campaign, there are only two online modes, Deathmatch 
 and basically capture the flag (on capture the flag, you dont need to capture it, you could just 
 kill the opposition!) .
  
  Overall, my message is to take this game in relatively small doses so it has a more lasting effect 
 and so that you do not get bored of it after the first few weeks. And thanks for reading.
  
  /Hiiperdrive Out\ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jknight5422
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I got this game used from Amazon's used section for about $20, although it looked completely new 
 & nothing was missing.
  
  The Big Picture
  
  Overall the graphics are interesting, though obviously incomplete. Gamespot made a big deal about 
 ladder climbing, but I didn't see this as a show stopping issue. It builds character. There are 
 still about 23-25 games going on at any given time when I login to play so the game has a bit of 
 a cult following. The different kinds of spells and tech that it gives you to manipulate the system 
 gives a large variety to strategy that I've not really seen before in an FPS. You really need to 
 work with your team if you want to win a match. Graphics-wise, the maps remind me of something 
 I might see in City of Heroes, which is fine by me. The maps themselves have about 3 different 
 levels to them & are a bit circular, no dead ends, at least none that I have found yet. All matches 
 are usually about one or both sides trying to steal an artifact, nothing too complicated or varied. 
 I played the game for several hours without getting bored with it & would look forward to playing 
 it again. The matches aren't very long, but you'll still need to allocate about 2-3 hours of your 
 time to play, a handful of matches in casual play won't do. Usually the matches will run about 
 8-10 times as you gradually build capital to upgrade your fighter.
  
  Bots
  
  One interesting thing about this game that I've not seen in other shooters is the ability to simulate 
 online match-making. For instance, you can adjust what races the bots start out with, what level 
 of difficulty, and so on. This allows you to test out different 'builds' of your own fighters. 
 You can pick a race, the RNA or The Lineage, choose starting weapons, and determine how you can 
 save your cash after each match & experiment with your choices. Running solo with the bots is very 
 helpful for understanding the game mechanics & since I've only played the game for about 10 hours, 
 I'm still getting killed with my bots running on the Medium setting. Of course, expert skills may 
 not necessarily keep you from getting killed by a bot, but I'll find out. Seeing this feature makes 
 me with that other shooters had online simulation tools (which are run offline) . It's a novel idea.
 
  
  Cons
  
  1. Having the buy menu open when each match starts is a bit of a pain in multiplayer. 
  
  2. 
 Didn't like the voting system to kick people out after a match. They need to be kicked out inside 
 the match or there needs to be some sort of banishment or timeout mechanism. Or turn off friendly 
 fire so these idiots don't have anything they can do to others in-game.
  
  3. Grenades sound like the grenades from Crackdown. Not really a con, but an observation.
  
 
  4. A few times the server got removed, which I think has something to do with some of the users 
 cutting off their connection when they are designated as the server. I'm not really sure why the 
 kids find enjoyment in being irritating to others online.
  
  5. A few players in the game have found a mod or a way to hack the game to cause problems. I was 
 once in a game & everyone in the game moved to the center of a vortex which caused an endless vibration 
 in my controller & there was no time out in the game. We all had to leave it. I'm not sure if that's 
 a bug or someone screwing with the game, as people used to with Halo 2 in the past.
  
  RPG Controversy
  
  It would've been interesting if they had come up with a campaign game or 
 had built it as an rpg. I would've preferred an rpg of the game since all of the elements derived 
 from an rpg. However, it's still an interesting game despite the fact. It has strategy that you 
 have to learn and is challenging to play against other players online. Just like with other shooters, 
 it takes skill to learn and get better with it. I recently finished Halo 3 on Legendary before 
 trying Shadowrun & I didn't find that my 'l33t' skills in Halo 3 really helped in Shadowrun. The 
 rules and playing style are different.
  
  In summary, there is a lot to like about this game & it's a cheap investment.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about a week ago and im having a pretty fun time with it so far. In this game you 
 can choose from 4 different class-Dwarf, Troll, Human, Or Elf-. Each have their own individual 
 traits that help you in one way or another. One good thing about this game is that there are individual 
 tutorials for the different classes and magics. It definetely comes in handy because if you are 
 just starting off, it can be hard to learn your way around everything, I know this first hand. 
 This live play is fun, each map can have quite a few characters and despite how long this games 
 been out, a lot of poeple still play on xbox live and its hard not to find a match. The graphics 
 are good, but could be better. The blood effects I think are one of the best aspects of the game. 
 The sound of each different gun is good and pertains to each weapon. This game is just overall 
 fun to play, and will probably satisfy a gamers craving for a new type of FPS. Just make sure you 
 have xbox live before you buy this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefHalan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a FPS that uses magic. At first it may be hard to understand at first but once you 
 get the hang of the gameplay it turns into the best online game for the Xbox 360. It has no single-player. 
 Because it has no single-player those of you without Xbox Live should not play this game. Those 
 of you that are paying the $50 a year should pick this game up. It has dropped in price to $40 
 and its a great deal. The magic system is good. They counter each others and support other types 
 of magic as well as allies. You can bring you dead friends back to life in this game once after 
 they die in that round. you can summon creatures to fight with you. there are so many this to pick 
 from and youll want to try everything before you find what works for you. If you haven't played 
 this game get it or atleast rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssassinExDeus
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:37 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun could have been one those big named games like Halo 3. Well a game that people would 
 have played for years to come. But instead it turned out to be crappy. Everything about it rocks. 
 So whats so bad that it kills the game? Read on!
  
  This game is basically, not to sound to confusing a Counter Strike meets RPG game. You do the same 
 in in CS except you have RPG powers along with weapons to buy and you have technology too. And 
 your classes are like Humans, Dwarves, Elves... etc. All with their pros and cons that determine 
 your speed, strength, magic... etc. It may sound complicated and it somewhat is but its all pretty 
 easy in game and balanced non the less.
  
  Lets say you start as the Elves race. You are faster, but lack health and get more magic I believe 
 it was. So by default you have a certain amount of money to start with so you can buy a cheap weapon 
 or cheap power. So go through the round, earn some money however and next round buy some weapons, 
 powers or technology. Simple as that. And it makes for a blast online although if you aren't into 
 after a few rounds you won't like the game. The even have easy tutorials for you to go through 
 to familiarize you with each race and what it does.
  
  So it sounds fun in essence. Until you realize this $60 games comes with a grand total of........3 
 maps. And they aren't massive either. So after a few hours you'll be bored to tears wondering "So... 
 do I unlock new maps or something?". This pretty much killed this game. They made this game so 
 you can play with PC users but no one really cares at this point. Without more maps theres only 
 so much you can play the same place over and over. And for the price the content isn't worth it. 
 Its ashame to see such a great idea go down the gaming tube.
  
  As for the rest of the game. The music and sound was normal to me. Nothing amazing. Same with the 
 graphics. Nothing stunning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkeyInOhio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fast pace. I mean like 10 times faster than halo 3's multi player. If you don't 
 know yet shadowrun is a sci-fi shooter. It is kind of like counterstrike in buying things at the 
 beginning of each round. It is a great a great way to to have ur own custom player. You choose 
 what character you want (elf, human, dwarf, and troll) then you can choose magic abilities and 
 weapons. Each character has special abilites and weaknesses. So you can really have a character 
 that you can play to your strength. The graphics are not superior. Some bad things are that when 
 the characters climb latter's their legs do not move. But that is getting very very picky. Basically, 
 if you like first person shooters this is a must get. A fast pace and very fast game. You have 
 to be on the look out constantly.
  
  This is probably the most under rated game on the xbox 360. If you are a halo player it will take 
 some time getting use too. This is a game that takes a lot more skill than halo 3 or GoW. If you 
 don't like it at first b/c u are losing, play a few more games until you get the hang of it. Then 
 it will start getting more and more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  Ok first off this game is like Warhawk. There is NO Single player mode what so ever and all of 
 the achievements (except the 6 training missions) involve online to get them.
  
  Anyway the gameplay is straight forward you buy your weapons at the beginning of the round everytime. 
 The arsenal is your standard affair of pistol.. SMG.. Rocket Launcher.. Sniper Rifle... and a new weapon 
 that I love is the katana which also switches you into 3rd person. At first the game can be kinda 
 difficult to kill people but once you get the hand of it it comes naturally.
  The graphics are.... meh for the 360. I mean they are unique but, this can easily be passed off 
 as a Xbox 1 game easily. Th sound you hear gunshots and the swinging of katanas.... but since the 
 game is all online and it does the traditional no music online thing... there is no music to be 
 heard but in the main menu.
  
  Its fun and the achievements are reminiscent of Gears of War because you have to kill people with 
 a certain weapon 100 times... a lot of the achievements involve the number 100.
  
  overall 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: En-GaGe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely under-rated, and since halo 3 has come out it has only gotten better.
  
  first of all the graphics are great and the havok engine generates great regdoll/physics in 
 the game. The graphics are prisitne and sharp but framerates stay high and keep the game running 
 smoothly.
  
  the gameplay itself has been done before, but not in a long time to this depth. With four different 
 classes, human, elf, troll, and dwarfs, each has their own traits relating to, speed, stregnth, 
 health, essesnce (magic) and each has their own unique ability, such as humans having no tech upgrade 
 penaltyies that every other race gets. Like i said earlier i find that the game has gotten better 
 since halo 3 has come out because the people who play are more mature, and more dedicated to the 
 game. Its a game that gets better as you keep playing and you find unique ways to take advantage 
 of the situation with your unique abilities. Many of its other pros are subtle like when the server 
 disconnects it chooses the person with the highest connection and you qill continue to play. The 
 maps are done fantastically and there is a diverse and great amount of them.
  
  Some of the bad things include, getting some of the achievements when it involves playing, killing, or 
 ressurecting vista players. and i would have liked to be able to have two players play on one xbox 
 online.
  
  that's about all i got to say great game overall, its a shame that there will be no downloadable 
 content because of fasa's breakup, but oh well it still comes out on top. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChrisMitchell
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  ShadowRun Xbox 360 Review
  The game is good but it looses some score for not having any real single player aspect (also not 
 stating that you require Xbox Live to even play the game, it does say that it is Optimized for 
 Online Play Xbox Live Gold Required and on the back it says Players 1 this can be a little confusing 
 to some as it could be interpreted as being better with Live (like crackdown or halo 3) The Live 
 aspect of Shadowrun is fun with a decent selection of weapons and capabilities like the ability 
 to warp through walls also it is nice to be able to play cross platform xbox360 to VistaPC although 
 it is kind of a gimmicky bonus as you wont really know . The graphics are good with support for 
 up to 1080p. At $40 Canadian (current Amazon Price) this game is still kind of expensive for only 
 half a game. In conclusion, you give me half a game, I'll give you half a score 4.5/10, I deducted 
 a little extra for not being completely open to people about the whole Xbox Live Requirement to 
 play the game, well anything more than the training levels anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Extreme124
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game was just great the first time I played it and still is, But the game is online only so 
 people that arent up to date with Broadband or Xbox Live Gold Account will suffer in silence.
 
  
  I am telling you to get the game, The online is great and this game is enjoyable and the magic 
 powers you get are just plain fun to use and your friends on Xbox Live will be able to play against 
 you and chat during the game so you cant beat that.
  
  If you want to have fun and get your moneys worth then I suggest you BUY this, you will be repaid 
 by great entrainment value and enjoyment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saxxonfury
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a game that fuses Counter-strike with fantasy game elements. The story has something 
 to do with an artifact and a rebellion, and the rebels are trying to get the artifact. But it doesn't 
 really matter, because there IS NOT CAMPAIGN. This is a strictly mutilplayer game, just like Counter-Strike. 
 Also like Counter-Strike, the player has to buy weapons and gadgets before each round. Were the 
 fantasy elements come in is the races/classes, and the powers. The player also buys magical powers 
 at the begining of each round such as: reserection, summon, healing powers, among others. The player 
 hot buttons these powers to LT, RB, and LB. Hot buttoning these powers is rather easy and casting 
 is rather responsive. Each cast uses Essence which is like mana. The player can also choose between 
 four races/classes: elves, humans, dwarves, and trolls. Each has their own strength. Elves can 
 ran fastest and has the most Essence, Humans are the most balances between strength and Essence, 
 Dwarves have the least Essence but can steal it from others by standing next to them and are the 
 second strongest, and trolls have the second most Essence and are the strongest. The Shadowrun 
 servers are reliable most of the time but the servers lag from game to game. It also takes longer 
 to join games, but the parties you join in the game carry over from game to game, much like Halo 
 3's party-up system, but it's automatic. If a gamer doesn't have Xbox Live, the game offers multiplayer-like 
 gameplay with bots, but it has NO SPLIT SCREEN. But it does offer system link, and you can play 
 with bots and people, but you need another Xbox 360 and another copy of Shadowrun. This game is 
 an awesome experience on Xbox Live and is worth playing, but without Xbox Live it's a real let 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rangersfcrob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  the good: creative multiplayer, great map design, magic.
  
  the bad: no single player, small number of maps, not really a 'shadowrun' game.
  
  
  
  
 comparing this game to counter strike and team fortress (as both lack single player modes) this 
 is one of them best multiplayer fps games ever made. i got this game on launch day and could not 
 belive how good it was, i am still playing it now even when halo 3 is out. so what makes it so 
 good?
  
  when playing a match you have so many options, you have to think outside the box of regular multiplayer 
 FPS. lets say your on the lineage team and your try to steal a heavily guarded artifact from the 
 RNA, you could run in guns blazing, wich might work- but they will be exspecting that. you have 
 to use the level design to your adavatage- is the artifact on a secound or thir floor?- teleport 
 through the floor, ceiling or walls to get it.
  
  shadowrun has a buy system simlair to counter strikes, but with one main difference- whan you buy 
 magic it stay with you until the game ends- even if you die. alot of team is required so you have 
 a balanced team in terms of magic, classes and wepons- also taking into account diffrent classes 
 streanghts and weaknesses.
  
  graficly its got a nice style to it, with teleport effects and such like looking amazing- there 
 is the odd low res texture here and there but nothing too major.
  
  the aiming system of shadowrun is like that of halo (but with a dynamic reticule) , so a bit of auto 
 aim but not too much to make it feel as the computer is doing it all for you.
  
  in conclusion if you dont have internet or xbox live- forget it, shadowrun will be a wast of money 
 to you. but if you do your in for hours of FPS fun- one of the best mutiplayer games this year! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtdixongamespot
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Goods about the game!
  
  I do like a lot of first person shooter games i was glad shadowrun made a come back to gaming.
 
  
  Cons about the game!
  
  It is a FPS multiplayer online only game! ladder climbing doen't seem reel!
  
  It has know 
 class to old rpg games or books.
  
  Nothing to do with dark sci-fi &amp; cyberpunk.
  
  Graphics were so damn cartooney.
  
  Gun firing is so lame.
  
  very few things for each 
 preference
  maps, 2 teams, 4 race class for each team, each race has 1 skin, 3 match types seems like 1.
 
  
  Onethe most disapponing thing about this game i have spend $60 for this game because i am a shadowrun 
 fan and i still like the shadowrun series but this one is real mistake!
  
  
  Better for Shadowrun in future 
 (hopfully) !
  
  I have notice that Fasa Studios have closed, but that should not stop shadowrun at least they could 
 make it better!
  
  I would make it a first person to third person RPG kinda like Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion or Mass 
 Effect but make a real dark sci-fi cyberpunk futuristic world about 100 times better than 2006 
 release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: admiral_picard
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  I don't know anything about the Shadowrun stuff, other than what's in this game. The game is simple 
 enough, get online and frag each other. It has some neat spells and abilities but with the limited 
 number of slots you have, the large number of spells and tech you'll buy will be wasted as you 
 can't quickly switch the abilities. It plays similar to Counterstrike in that you buy weapons at 
 the start and if you die in the game and you're dead for the round unless someone resurrects you. 
 The online gameplay can be fun, but I constantly experienced connection problems and disconnects. 
 Sometimes the game ran great but other times it wouldn't stay connected to any game for more than 
 5 minutes. Some abilities don't seem to work that well and the weapons are very sporadic in their 
 abilities (Sometimes a rifle will kill in 2 shots other times it'll take 12, even when aiming in 
 the exact same area on the same race) . If you must have an online game to play on the 360 this 
 is a different one that might be good, just rent it before you buy it and save yourself the hassle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skilo2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  i have spent many weekends playing shadowrun on live, the only thing i wish they had was a story 
 mode or a 2 player coop offline because the only thing you can do offline is play with bots and 
 do the training. I also think that there should be more weapons. for example, instead of just a 
 sniper rifle i think they should have psg1 and scout tacticals, and each weapons should have there 
 advantages and disadvantages. this is a great game is you are not willing to spend over $40 for 
 a game, but you still want a great game. so if you love online play with all of your friends then 
 shadowrun is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganandorf1000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun, this is an all online game in which you either kill the opposing team or try to collect 
 the artifact which in the game, is like the flag. You take it and run to the base. You have 5 races 
 each with there own special ability. Human, Elf, Troll, and Dwarf. The good stuff is that it's a 
 great first person shooter with weapons such as, -pistol
  -smg
  -rifle
  -shotty
  -sniper
  -katana
  -rocket launcher
  It has a great supply of weapons and has some personal 
 technoligy -Glider -Smartlink
  -encanced vision
  and a ton more including things with mahic like a rez spell and tree of life with much more. The 
 key thing this game is missing is some of the lag and more importantly, it has no story line. I 
 give this a nine, so if it a had a story mode that was intresting and good. it would easily be 
 a 9.5 or even closer to 10. This is a one in a kind game with the most creative thinking in it. 
 Trust me, you won't see anothe game like this for a while on the count of the variety of items, 
 weapons and magical spells. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodbore8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Boom! Bam! Shadowrun for the Xbox 360 (created by FASA Studios) was a game that had me really excited 
 for it. Its a shooter (thats multiplayer only, although you can play with bots) but it has some 
 of the most innovative and unique gameplay features that set it apart from all other shooters, 
 even Halo.
  
  In Shadowrun, magical enemies are returning and are trying to bring back the whole entire magical 
 world. Its your job to pick your side on this battle. Even though one side is anti-magic, both 
 sides can use that and thats a major part of the game. The magical aspects of this game are the 
 features that set it apart from the rest of the shooters out there and will amaze you, especially 
 during your first few hours of play. You can also use tech, such as gliders, special see-through-walls 
 goggles, and many other cool items. I prefer to use magic, instead of using some of the tech powers, 
 but tech powers are still insanely cool.
  
  Each battle is basically a capture-the-flag battle. Each match is divided into a few short rounds. 
 The team with the most wins usually wins the match. However, the winner can change at any time 
 because during each round, players can use points they gained during battle to upgrade their weapons 
 or buy new spells or tech. I enjoyed the wonderful rock-paper-scissors aspect of the game in that 
 way. And whenever you use a spell, theres always another one that can counter it. That also applies 
 to the rock-paper-scissors gameplay. But lets not forget that, even though youll be so obsessed 
 with using the magic and tech, this is still a shooter with guns (and a katana) . There isnt such 
 a wide variety of guns that youll constantly be trying new ones; theres only a few. The shooting 
 mechanics in this game are not really good and innovative or bad. But when you combine it with 
 enemies that use magic to try to stop your shots, thats when the fun begins.
  
  The game makes a great first impression. The way you equip weapons, magic, and tech is easy to 
 learn and using them is even easier. I dont think there was ever a time when I was frustrated 
 by not knowing what to do. Thats one of the best things about Shadowrun: youll easily pick up 
 the gameplay mechanics at the beginning of your playthrough. While only the experts are the ones 
 wholl be winning straight away, you wont care. Win or lose, die or live, Shadowruns all about 
 the gameplay and just having fun. (Also to note: When you die in Shadowrun, someone must come and 
 heal you using magical spells. And if he dies, you are bleeding out and constantly lose health 
 until someone else comes to heal you. I loved that system and wish an alike system was integrated 
 into other great shooters.
  
  The maps are well done and remind you of your favorite video game maps in games like Halo 2 and 
 Goldeneye 007. A few of the maps, I thought, were the best Id played for over a year. They were 
 well done and well thought out and you could tell that the developers had really struggled to create 
 this game.
  
  The graphics are great on some maps and only good on others. The sound effects are good but there 
 is unfortunately no music unless you use files saved on your Xbox 360s hard drive.
  
  The game is so immersive that you can play for hours with no end. The only thing that will possibly 
 stop your fun experience until you take a break is that there are only two main different gameplay 
 modes. There is also no major single player campaign unless you count training. But those, along 
 with some cheap animations (actually, more like NO AMINATIONS in some sections) are my only complaints. 
 As major as those complaints may sounds, Shadowruns innovative gameplay is too interesting and 
 entertaining to befuddle your Shadowrun love. In other words, Shadowrun is an inperfect but genuinely 
 amazing experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warden72
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 28, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  GOOD: Smooth, well-balanced multiplayer; good controls; slick interface; smart A. I.
  
  BAD: No campaign mode whatsoever; restrictive matchmaking; minimal customization; don't expect 
 additional content... ever.
  
  The now-defunct FASA Studios, developers of the well-received Xbox exclusives Crimson Skies and 
 MechAssault, have tested their flair with first-person shooters in Shadowrun, a multiplayer-only 
 title based on a pen-and-paper RPG. Now, you'd think an RPG would spawn an RPG, but misguided experimentation 
 has resulted in something a bit freakish instead. Shadowrun, the video game, is far from terrible 
 but should have been placed in the hands of a studio like BioWare. FASA's version is an efficient 
 but seriously lacking shooter that probably should have taken its inspiration from another source. 
 And the game definitely needs more meat on its bones.
  
  Shadowrun is an odd amalgamation of genres, for certain. It relocates traditional RPG characters 
 to a futuristic Brazil where corporate security guys (dressed in blue) from a corporation called 
 RNA fight it out with rebels in red called The Lineage. Both sides consist of any arrangement of 
 humans, dwarves, elves, and trolls, each with their own strengths and weaknesses. Humans have a 
 technological advantage, dwarves can drain other players essence (or mana) , elves are dextrous 
 with regenerative capabilities, and trolls are essentially hard-to-kill walking tanks. Weapons, 
 magical abilities, and technology are selected from a menu at the beginning of each match. Each 
 selection has a set price and players earn money based on performance. Although this setup is reminiscent 
 of Counterstrike, the combination of races, magic and tech give Shadowrun a very unique flavor.
 
  
  Weapons consist of a disappointingly standard assortment of firearms from pistol to rocket launcher, 
 plus a katana that utilizes a third-person view. Each player has a set amount of essence to be 
 used for magic, which includes abilities such as resurrection, teleportation, and summoning a creature 
 to fight by your side, amongst others. These can be used in any combination with tech abilities 
 such as gliding, auto-aiming, enemy detection, magic inhibition, and a speed enhancement that also 
 deflects incoming fire when wielding a katana. It's an eye-opening assortment of features, for 
 sure, but seasoned shooter fans will find all this only briefly intriguing before jumping straight 
 to the question of balancing.
  
  A great deal of playtesting must have been devoted to Shadowrun, because it shows. No matter what 
 type of force youre up against, your team can change up their strategy to turn the tide of the 
 match (assuming that your team is truly acting as a team) . Any combination of race, magic and tech 
 can defeat any other combination. Every ability has a downside, and none has a distinct advantage 
 over the rest. One magic spell called Smoke can turn you into an invincible wisp, but you cant 
 fire weapons and can be damaged and exposed by the wind gust spell. A tech called Enhanced Vision 
 shows waypoints to every player within fifty meters for a few seconds. However, its use exposes 
 you to other players with Enhanced Vision equipped whether they activate it or not. Even the auto-aim 
 tech projects a red beam across the map, revealing your position. These are just a few examples 
 of how Shadowruns unique features force players to think beyond communication and marksmanship.
 
  
  So how can a person manage all these abilities in the heat of battle? You can hotkey any combination 
 of three purchased magic or tech to your left trigger and both bumpers. These can be switched out 
 if desired by using a radial menu of thankfully efficient design; so slick in fact that, with practice, 
 you can access abilities in this menu almost as quickly as the ones youve hotkeyed. The downside 
 is that it's too easy to get used to keeping certain abilities in certain slots at all times, for 
 these may have to be changed frequently depending on the situation. It's bad to teleport when you 
 meant to resurrect a fallen ally.
  
  Single-player can be entertaining to those who can live without the little touches, such as plot, 
 dialogue, scripted sequences, and cutscenes. You see, there is absolutely no campaign mode whatsoever. 
 Going in alone consists of the tutorial and all the botmatches you can possibly endure, and that's 
 it. I can only imagine the story one could squeeze out of a universe that mashes up D&amp; D-type 
 characters with a cyberpunk setting, and it's a shame that seemingly no effort was made to flesh 
 out the game with any sort of narrative. The developers apparently thought they were crafting such 
 a breakthrough multiplayer experience that the lack of a campaign mode would have been forgiven 
 if not ignored. This may have been the case if a ridiculous number of multiplayer maps had been 
 included, or if 32-player epic battles were an option. Unfortunately, the entire game is the equivalent 
 of only the multiplayer component found in most other shooters.
  
  Furthermore, Shadowrun offers pathetic match customization: choose one of three game modes then 
 select a player cap of 8, 12, or 16. Period. The game forces you to play ranked matches with random 
 strangers or start a leisurely match with only bots and direct friend invites. You can't just drop 
 into a player match with adjusted rules like in most multiplayer shooters. Serious players only, 
 please.
  
  Shadowrun's graphics may also disappoint. Although serviceable, the visuals are more akin to Halo 
 2 than Gears of War. Textures have little detail and the architecture is mostly flat and basic, 
 consisting of floors, walls, ramps, and little else but this keeps the framerate buttery smooth 
 which is arguably more important than sharp details in multiplayer. Another gripe is that ladder-climbing 
 animations were omitted entirely; players slide up and down ladders like posed statues. However, 
 this is forgivable if you don't look at it...
  
  Those who can find the existent value in Shadowruns team-based multiplayer exclusivity should 
 at least pay for a rental. Not long ago I would have even recommended a purchase, but times have 
 changed recently. Not only has Halo 3 been released (as you may have heard in passing) , thinning 
 Shadowrun's player base, but FASA has been dissipated and absorbed into other branches of Microsoft. 
 This means that Shadowrun's content deficiency will likely never be improved through future downloads.
 
  
  Shadowrun should by no means remain ignored. It's a mechanically sound thinking-man's shooter at 
 its core, which should account for something. But it's only a matter of short time before the game 
 is forgotten entirely. Very few will be playing it online come next year, so even a rental may 
 someday be a ripoff if you wish to do more than battle the remarkable AI. Although the gameplay 
 itself is commendable and worth discovering, Shadowrun is an unfortunate example of a game that 
 brims with potential but will soon perish from poorly nourished development and subsequent neglect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Back in the day Shadowrun used to be a side scrolling RPG on the SNES. Today (crushing many fans 
 dreams) FASA studios has turned the concept of magic returning to the world into a Online only 
 FPS. This is at first a great idea, promoting XBL and getting more people into online gaming. The 
 downside is that it leaves the game with absolutely no depth or substance.
  
  The gameplay in Shadowrun is surprisingly outstanding. You start each game with a certain amount 
 of money which you can use to buy magic, tech or guns. You then go out into some decent game maps 
 and either kill the other team or play a game mode similar to capture the flag. From killing other 
 dudes or winning each round you will gain more money which you can use to buy more expensive weapons, 
 magic or tech or just more of it. It would be a really cool idea if it hadn't been copied from 
 Counter Strike. That aside it does make for some very cool FPS action. Guys teleporting through 
 walls shooting each other, people flying from gliders with snipers, making deadly crystal traps 
 and gusting each other off buildings. It does all sound very cool and is for the most part but 
 it does get slightly repetitive.
  
  Shadowrun has four main character classes that you can play as Humans, Trolls, Elves and Dwaves. 
 Each of them has their own different abilities, for example Humans are good at tech but aren't 
 so good with magic unlike Elves which is the opposite. Trolls are slow but can take huge amounts 
 of damage and Dwaves are kinda all rounders but they drain magic when near other enemies. They 
 are all quite different but thankfully are well balanced.
  
  Shadowrun looks pretty good for a 360 game, it's no Gears, but has very nice effects on the magic. 
 The downside to this is the animations. They are terrible. The characters just float up ladders, 
 they look like they slide along the floor and some of them move oddly. Though this doesn't really 
 effect the game it hinders the presentation and come on, this is 2007, everyone should get a ladder 
 animation.
  
  In all honesty the target audience for this game are not going to care about the graphics or story, 
 but other people like might to know why these two sides are fighting. Well since it is an online 
 game you will never actually find out. You can read the manual to find out a small back story but 
 nothing actually interesting. What will keep you playing Shadowrun for long periods of time is 
 that the core game is actually fun. It is just hindered by the fact it should be a download game 
 at 2500 microsoft points. The reason I say this is because it just doesn't have enough in it to 
 be a full title. There are only two game modes a handful of maps which 4 of the smaller versions 
 of the big ones. To me this isn't enough to be a full $60 game.
  
  People who enjoy intense online battles will enjoy Shadowrun for some period of time. Whether they 
 find it boring eventually really depends on how much you like it after you've played it for a few 
 hours. It is a very hardcore type game, no single player and only online. If it had single player 
 it would gain a much higher score because of the cool mechanics within. However it doesn't. If 
 you love online FPS's and need an interesting new twist, try this, if you don't you might not want 
 to play it. This may have seemed like a negative review but Shadowrun is an OK game, just hard 
 to get into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pjawsk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:37 am PT
Review:  First off, i don't think the graphics are bad, its not like.. OMFGZ Gears of Warz haz the bezt 
 graphics and everything elze suckzerz. No.. It have quite good graphics.
  
  Some of my live friends plays this game and hey got me into it, so i bought it. The first two hours 
 i played, i thought it sucked, but its actually a very great game. At the beginning it feels a 
 little slow to get into, but when you learn what the magic does, and the different races, you will 
 absolutely love it!
  
  But sadly, i dont think many will play this game when halo 3 comes out, i know i will from time 
 to time. But i think this game have had very bad reviews because gamespot only played it for five 
 hours and thought i sucked. Give the game a chance, and you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 4.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I cant tell u how irritating it is to open a game and find out you cant play it. Beside they put 
 in alot of stuff that ends up irritating you anyways.
  
  Im glad I have an Unlimted game rental, took this back within the same day.
  
  It doesnt deserve 
 a review. xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx
  xxxx xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllGameSystems
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Not worth much. Not fun. No 1 player just training. This game is empty. Dont bother renting.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time  you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xspartan092
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game out right now. i will play this game forever. I really encourage you 
 people to buy this game. Some people say is it money lost, but in my words, its the best sixty 
 dollars i have ever spent on an xbox game. The multiplayer is so team based, without a solid contributing 
 team, you can say your team is nothing. I love this game and encourage people to buy itn everywhere. 
 I really want you to try this game out on the demo, but you really dont need to if you just beleive 
 me when i say how much i like this game. this game isnt to graphic or to cartoony, its just right 
 for me and i really just want other people to have a chance at a great game like this one.
  Thanks
  GT: Hustla 99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevernight490
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is the Xbox 360's CS at the moment, and its great multiplayer captures the hearts of 
 its players. But, deep down we all wish that this was CS. But no use complaining, Shadowrun does 
 do the job when it comes to fun and entertainment.
  
  Im not going to touch on singleplayer this review, because this is not what the game is meant for. 
 Multiplayer offers great gameplay and fun times. This is a team game, as the addition of different 
 races, spells and tech to the CS concept forces players to act as a unit. For example, Elf's are 
 fast but weak so they essentially should be the Ressurectors of the match. Trolls can carry heavy 
 weapons without a speed reduction, they should be support. Dwarfs absorb essence from enemies and 
 teammates so they are spellcasters. Humans are balanced and have no specific job.
  
  Because their are no respawns, it is vital when you lose a teammate. So, those who wish to solo 
 the map, will end up winning the hatred of their team. This game has COMMUNICATION written all 
 over it. If you have no mic or are not allowed to use it, do not play multiplayer.
  
  Overall, this game is surprisingly good. However, i still await an Xbox 360 Counterstrike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowblind54
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 15, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a great game on X Box Live. I will warn you, the game is no good without XBox Live, 
 so please don't get it and complain about the offline. They put a notice on the box that it is 
 optimized for online multiplayer for a reason. Shadowrun's greatness is slightly bogged down by 
 annoying people online and only a few maps and modes to play, but overall it is still an amazing 
 game. I wish people would just ignore the bad reviews and try Shadowrun for the amazing game it 
 is. So please, people stop believing the hate reviews and try Shadowrun before you say it sucks. 
 Rent it first if you want to, but please more people buy it so Microsoft will understand how successful 
 it actually is and hopefully make a sequel, because the fact that it barely sold any caused Microsoft 
 to close its developers FASA Studios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LFXFox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I had alot of fun playing this game online w/ both 360 and PC gamers. The visuals were lacking 
 in comparision to other 360 titles out there, but made up for it w/ fun gameplay and interesting 
 RPG elements. The idea of earning money to upgrade your tech skills and magic abilities was a fun 
 and innovative addition to this great FPS. My two complaints for this game were the lack of a solo 
 campaingn and the fact that I got dropped constantly from matches. I would recommend this game 
 to anyone looking for a very fun way to spend the weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAZ-MAT00
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Really good game. But not very good graphics for 360. Very fun. It will be good until halo 3 comes 
 out way to go bungie. Except i was expecting more out of halo wars than that it looks like command 
 and conquer 3. Microsoft did a really good job on shadowrun i haven't tried the windows vista version. The 
 problem i dont like about shadowrun is so much laggy games and servers leaving. they should make 
 an update that makes it so when the server leaves the match taht it picks a new server automatically 
 so they dont end games that are going so good for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  When I rented Shadowrun I was a bit skeptical but it was a free rental so I figured what the heck 
 might as well give it a try. For those that don't know Shadowrun was an RPG back in the day, but 
 you wouldn't know by looking at the game as it seems like a fun Counter Strike type of game. However 
 when you play the game you can really see the RPG roots in this game, as although the game can 
 be a fast paced shooter there are magic spells in the game as well. At first this can be a little 
 overwelming as this game is playable only on Xbox Live unless you want to play a bot match. The 
 people who are really good at this game seem to know just how to be filling you with lead and doing 
 spells on you at the same time. This can be frustrating at first because it doesnt really give 
 you a chance to learn the game. There are however tutorials but they dont prepare you as well as 
 they should, but hey they have achievement points and you will be a lot more better off. This review 
 is going to be short because I only rented Shadowrun so I didn't necesarrily get the whole Shadowrun 
 experience. One thing that drove me crazy was that event though there are games to improve your 
 TrueSkill ranking there are no leader boards and no way to view what you current ranking is. Shadowrun 
 does have some good ideas but they are not as played out as they should be. Heres hoping to Shadowrun 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trowa85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  My review of this game is a little mixed but i am overall very pleased with my purchase of this 
 game. The lack of single player is this games largest draw back and believe me when i say this 
 is one hell of a draw back. The only thing you can do if you don't have live is play against bots 
 on the nine maps in the game. Now don't get me wrong the bots are no slouches they will kick your 
 a$$ if you underestimate them but this game is sooo much more fun when playing with real human 
 beings. The game has no semblance of a story , that being said this is another flaw in this game. 
 The Shadowrun story is a very cool one and they could have made a great single player game from 
 it but it was totally wasted here. Put all that aside, what we do have here is a great multi player 
 game that has a near endless combos of character class and ability's. The magic in this game takes 
 FPS to a whole norther level and as stated in the start of the game the rules of combat have most 
 certainly changed. teleporting, summons, healing trees, gliders and a host of other abilities, 
 that takes what would other wise have been a run of the mill FPS and transforms it into one of 
 the coolest and most creative multi player FPS ever seen.
  
  Bottom line is if you have live and like FPS buy this game there is a ton of fun to be had here. 
 If not do look somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: partytimekegs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun may not be the most impressive or creative multiplayer game, but it does live up to its 
 value. Much of the action is fast paced, intense, and complex.. requiring a few more brain cells 
 than the average shooter. With a 35$ Used and 40$ new price tag, it makes this game hard to resist 
 buying. The only downside, in my opinion, is the somewhat lack of maps. Other than that this game 
 is definitely worth its price. z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z 
 z z z z z z z z z z : 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvin201
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game offers very unique things that you probaly wont find anywhere else. It has you useing 
 magic to defeat your enemies. The biggest problem about this game is that it doesnt have a single 
 player. Even though I couldnt imagine having one. But now that the price went down to 40 dollars 
 its totally worth it.
  
  Good: 1. useing magic is very fun. 2. you will need a lot of strategy to win. 3. Achievements will 
 make you want to play more.
  
  Bad: 1. No single player 2. AI is really stupid 3. Horrible Graphics. 4. Could get boring in a 
 few weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ineedaname167
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  The first time I saw this and played it I thought it was complete crap. The tutorials are some 
 of the most boring I have ever seen in a video game. However, luckily that day I was really bored 
 so I booted up a singleplayer game. I played the demo for an hour straight.
  
  Shadowrun has been called CS with Magic. That can describe the game, but there are major differences, 
 such as the realism (none.) the tech and magic, the weapons. and the maps.
  
  The first change is the tech and magic. These are the things that change the game into a unique 
 experience. Both counteract eachother, so it's difficult to make a character with an even meld. 
 Magic is more focusing on defensive abilitys, such as Strangle, throwing down crystals that can 
 stop and damage your oponent, teleport, which gives you an amzing field of movment, and Ressurection, 
 which is obvious. Tech is more of the lone wolf type of thing, with wired reflexes enhancing your 
 speed, smartlink which gives you another level of zoom and some light autoaim, and anti magic grenage, 
 which nullifys all magical effects in an area. You need to memorize every ability to have a chance 
 in multiplayer.
  
  The weapons are much more genrelized then counterstrike, with the only large differences in them 
 being a rocket launcher and a katana. (Noobs love this!) All of this provides an even playing field 
 for everyone, if it wern't for the races. Each of the 4 has different attributes that effects its 
 health, speed, aility to carry heavy weapons, and magic, plus one more extra bonus. Humans have 
 no magic penalties on tech and an extra 500 dollars at the start, Elves regenerate their health 
 (another favorite of noobs) , Dwarves can sap magic from everyone else, and Trolls are just hella 
 hard to kill and gets thougher the more damage you throw at it.
  
  I would of given this a 9, if not for the maps. You can practiclly count them on one hand, and 
 they arn't very orignal or memorable. That really, really brings down the game.
  
  The Good: Great diversity
  
  Excellnt multiplayer
  
  Lots of different tactics.
  
  
 The Bad: Terrible maps
  
  Threadbones story, almost worse then aftermentioned CS.
  
  And the Ugly:
  
  Decent graphics, but no ladder animation?
  
  Bad matchmaking setup.
 
  
  Rent or buy?
  
  Rent, see if it's a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikokingNL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok gamespot i agree almost always but this time its wrong i had a wonderfull time and still have 
 waiting on halo 3 with this game ok it isnt really worth a 9 or something but 6.9 no its at least 
 wurth a 7.5 i would give it a 8,1 but thats not on the list so il go for 8.5 ! And you need something 
 to make the time with bioshock is better but it wasnt out at the time of buying! not wurth buying 
 now but before bioshock it was and really an good game! For people likeing muliplayer only yeah 
 its great but for us its a good game! I did to may !! why? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonobubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  I'll cut right to the chase: for $60, Shadowrun isn't a great value if you're looking for a single-player 
 experience, but if you have Xbox Live, it offers a truly enjoyable and unique multiplayer experience 
 that will keep you coming back time and time again.
  
  There aren't many maps in Shadowrun -- there's only really nine -- but each of the maps included in 
 the game is well laid out and enjoyable. However, the game's art direction is somewhat questionable, 
 and other than different colors and slightly different character models, there isn't much to differentiate 
 players on your team from the other team. Likewise, the included maps offer some variety, but their 
 artistic appearance often seems disjointed and mashed together. Rarely, except in the cloud map, 
 does the game offer any sense of creativity or consistency in art direction.
  
  The true appeal of the game is its unique implementation of magic and tech abilities. The gameplay 
 breaks down similarly to Counter-strike, where you purchase weapons based on money earned during 
 each round, but in addition to weapons, you also have the option of purchasing tech and magic abilities. 
 You can purchase up to three of these abilities, and you can bind their use to the left trigger 
 button, left bumper or right bumper.
  
  The tech and magic abilities are very interesting, and it is a lot of fun to experiment with different 
 combinations. The abilities you choose to purchase will dramatically change your gameplay experience, 
 and some combinations of magic, tech and weapons provide advantages in combat.
  
  For example, if you buy a katana along with the wired reflexes tech ability , you can block sniper 
 bullets and some other types of gunfire with your sword. If you buy the tree of life ability along 
 with smoke, you can heal yourself while remaining immune to all other attacks (other than gust) .
 
  
  Character classes also play a role in gameplay. There are four player classes available: dwarves, 
 humans, trolls and elves. Each of the classes has a different advantage and disadvantage, and some 
 classes are better suited to using some of the different tech and magic abilities than others.
 
  
  For example, elves and dwarves are particularly suited to using magic, whereas, trolls and humans 
 seem to benefit more from tech. At first, the various tech, magic and character abilties can be 
 a bit overwhelming to new players, but part of the fun of the game is finding out creative combinations 
 that suit your style of play. I still continue to find out new gameplay strategies. For example, 
 I like to use the shotgun with teleport. I often will teleport right next to a person, shoot them 
 with the shotgun, and teleport away.
  
  When I use a dwarf, I tend to buy the tree of life, because not only does it allow me to heal myself, 
 but it allows me to regain my magic (dwarves have the ability to drain magic from other players 
 and magical objects) . Figuring out these little nuances to gameplay is part of the appeal of the 
 game, and you can spent a lot of time experimenting.
  
  In terms of graphics, Shadowrun isn't stunning, but the textures are sharp and clean. The player 
 animations are relatively simple, and there's not even a climbing animation for going up ladders. 
 Also, you cannot customize your character, so you end up looking exactly like every other human, 
 dwarve, troll or elf in the game. In terms of graphical bells and whistles, the game fails to meet 
 the standard set by Gears of War, which utilizes the most advanced lighting and bump-mapping effects 
 available. However, the various magic effects in the game are flashy, colorful and impressive.
 
  
  If you are looking for an interesting storyline, you won't find one here. There is supposedly a 
 war going on between the RNA and the Lineage, but because there is no single player campaign, the 
 differences between the two sides and their basis for fighting is basically ignored. All we know 
 is that they are fighting to control magic, and that's about it. The game features an opening cinematic 
 that shows a volcano erupting with blue energy -- supposedly a terrorist attack staged by the Lineage 
 -- but the game never explains what that whole scene was all about. It's too bad, because it would 
 be fun to truly understand the backstory, and to play through a single-player version of the game, 
 utilitizing all of the neat magic and tech abilities available.
  
  As it stands, you are basically stuck with Xbox Live multiplayer, or single player matches versus 
 bots. The bots range from weak to vastly overpowering, with little leeway inbetween. You cannot 
 earn achievement by playing against the bots, so they are basically just a time waster for you 
 to try out different abilities while not playing online.
  
  Connecting to multiplayer games online can sometimes take a while, and inexplicably, you will sometimes 
 be in the middle of a match, when suddenly, you will get a server has left the game error, which 
 tends to kick you back to the startup screen. This can be quite frustrating, but hopefully, they 
 will iron out these issues.
  
  One of the neat features of the game is the ability to play against people who have the Windows 
 Vista PC version of the game. So far, I haven't been able to tell when I'm playing against PC players, 
 but I have earned some of the related achievements. Overall, I think it's a great idea, and I hope 
 more games take advantage of it.
  
  If you enjoy online shooters and you have Xbox Live, Shadowrun can be a tremendous amount of fun, 
 and it provides a reasonable summer distraction while you wait for Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Fire41
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  now before you ask, no there is no extra online fee, yes its practiacally online only (theres bot 
 matches, but thats it and thats no fun) at first its tough, but if you are stealthy and like shooters 
 you'll love, especially after you learn the controls and get used to it, al in all i love it, but 
 thats just my opinion.
  there are 4 races, Human, Troll, Elf, and Dwarf.
  Human: balanced, can use tech without essence penalties.
  Elf: fast yet fragile, if they aren't 
 under fire, they can heal without tree of life.
  Troll: skin hardens when hit and can weild any weapon without speed penatly, slow and powerfull.
 
  Dwarf: drains essence from anything, had a crapload of essence yet recovers it slowly, due to 
 size they are hard to hit. (and they DON T HAVE BEARDS!!!!)
  i'd tell ya more but i'd be spoilen it for ya, well, have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Howell123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  FPS these days are more around big muscle men wearing bandanas and chainsawing anything until ShadowRun 
 where it completley changed the FPS world if you will.
  
  First off you enter the training mode and learn the really cool stuff about this game it's not 
 run get cover pop up take shots y'know it really thrives on you playing the game as the character 
 you wanna be not how the game demands you play what it wants you to do!
  
  from the get go you learn that there are 4 races to choose from there are the average, techy Humans 
 who surpress in technology better than any other rce, you've got your elves who are quicker , regenerating 
 health , katana bad-asses , Trolls are big and mean and take alot more damage and the cool dwarves 
 who drain essence from other players and are hard to aim at!
  
  So once you clear the tutorials you then start a game online or not and it is the same just either 
 a 4 on 4 or a 8 on 8 in a sort of capture the flag if you will where one team called the lineage 
 go up against the RNA and those no really good team vs Bad Team it's just pits a group of races 
 against another in diferent coloured shirts to be honest!
  
  Back to this whole new stuff in this FPS y'know you get your SMG , Shotguns , Sniper Rifles and 
 Rocket Launchers pretty basic and then yiou get some really cool stuff like teleporting up to 8 
 feet or pushing players back and then it gets really weird cos then you can like pull trees out 
 of the ground that regenrate your health and spawn weird Minions to help you fight......... sounds 
 weird but it is really fun and cool cos then you deicide do you wanna spend $2000 on a magic power 
 or spend it on Shotgun and other guns and what not!
  
  ShadowRun may not appeal to some where it's beacuse there is a lack of Gam-modes and some may wanna 
 go through a 20 hour campagin or story mode and do Co-op y; know but this game is a really great 
 Multiplayer where there is always someone online and hardly any lag just a great way t play a huge 
 multiplayer based game and if that sounds like your type of game than ShadowRun's for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesis_104
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  My first impressions of Shadowrun are mixed. On one hand, I feel it was a good attempt to mix the 
 on-line play between the PC and Xbox 360 users, expanding the available on-line community. The 
 game play reminds me of Conker's Bad Fur Day for the original Xbox, having characters that have 
 specialized abilities that when used properly can change the outcome of a match. Another Comparison 
 I can make to the game would be in reference to the available Bot mode, reminding me of Perfect 
 Dark for the Nintendo 64, which is a nice touch for those that need some practice. The game has 
 a couple unique elements. One is the purchase mode at the beginning of each round, allowing team 
 members to purchase their gear and help other team mates purchase the gear they need by giving 
 them money; money is earned by killing your opponents, completing objectives and winning rounds. 
 Another element I found interesting was the resurrect ability, which allows a player to bring back 
 a fallen team mate at the expense of Essence, which is the term giving to the amount of magic points 
 each player has based on their class. On the other hand, Shadowrun is lacking in a few areas. One, 
 there is no campaign mode or character creation, only giving you the option of a few ready built 
 races; human, elf, dwarf and troll, each having their unique skills and abilities. Shadowrun also 
 does not have much in the way of game types the only three available are: Extraction - Which each 
 team, RNA and Lineage, tries to secure the artifact, a staff like object, by returning it to their 
 base. Raid - Which has the Lineage group trying to secure the artifact, while the RNA group protects 
 it. Attrition - Which is a last team standing death match. Additionally, Shadowrun does not follow 
 the original Shadowrun series and offers very little for the Table top RPG fan. In closing, if 
 you are a Shadowrun series fanatic or were hoping for some kind of campaign mode, you will be very 
 disappointed; but as a cross-platform multi player game, seemingly a pilot for future cross-platform 
 games between the PC and Xbox 360, it does pretty well. Although, with the game still in the $60.00 
 range, in some areas, it is a bit much to ask for compared to what it offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FearlesLeader
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  It's a damn shame that Shadowrun was released so quickly. It could have been great. I'll even go 
 so far as to say that it has some of the best online multiplayer in an FPS that I've ever seen. 
 It carries a deep level of strategy not seen in other shooters, allowing smart players to take 
 out players with better aim or even- god forbid- an unfair connection. The two main problems with 
 Shadowrun are its lack of content and its lack of polish. The game only has a few maps (Nine? Not 
 entirely sure) and three gametypes. This limits the variety of matches played. All the variety 
 comes from the different styles of play. Sadly, the only class you'll ever see anyone else play 
 is Elf Ninja... On top of a lack of variety, Shadowrun lacks polish. For instance, there is no 
 animation for when a player climbs a ladder. It's simply missing. A few other glaring scars take 
 away from the experience, but all in all it's something that can be overlooked. Shadowrun is for 
 anyone who's looking for a deep, strategic multyplayer experience and doesn't mind a little bit 
 of bumps along the way. And we can only pray that all that crap will be fixed in a future patch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abczby
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun has one of the best multiplayers of any game I have ever played before. There is never 
 one way to approach a situation in it. The graphics aren't the greatest, but they are pretty good, 
 and the gameplay makes up for it ten fold. BUT, unless you have Xbox Live, this game is a 100% 
 waste, because unfortunately, there is no campaign, and bots in this game basically have down syndrome. 
 But if you do have Xbox Live, then I would definitely recommend you to buy this game, because it 
 is highly addictive, and the gameplay never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillerM24
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a multiplayer first-person-shooter game that combines future tactics with ancient 
 magic, to create a great multiplayer experience.
  
  Graphics: 7/10 Ok so the graphics aren't that good. but some things look amazing like the glider 
 details, blood effects, bullet marks on the walls, the minion, and a few other things. Besides, 
 you don't need great graphics to make a great game. Just look at the Wii.
  
  Sound: 9/10 The sound is intense in this game. From the music to the announcers voice to hearing 
 I'm bleeding out! or Nice Tree . All the weapons sound nice. Especially the rocket launcher coming 
 at 100 feet away and you hear the beeping noise.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 As I said earlier this is the greatest multiplayer experience i've played so far. 
 The game is intense, funny (Ninja Troll) , loud, and addictive. If you have a lot of friends, then 
 that will make the game better and more enjoyable.
  
  Value: 7.5/10 Its a good game, but it is just a multiplayer only game, but does offer some time 
 consuming achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redbull2k7
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game is highly fun for about the first twenty-five hours, but could get boring after. Could 
 really use about another five maps. But a good feature about the game is that it has magic, tec, 
 and a variaty of creatures each with it's own ability which is a great. But a downside is that 
 there are almost no variety in maps or guns and there are melee attacks, except for the katana 
 which sucks. Also the game looks unfinished, for example, when your climbing up a ladder, it looks 
 like your just floating up the wall, no movement at all. Overall I would reccomed this game about 
 90% for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syco722
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 13, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  If you come into Shadowrun looking for amazing Graphics, Life-Changing gameplay, perfect controls, 
 and the greatest thing you've ever played than you, like so many other people, are not thinking 
 of the right game.... go look at Halo 3. What you need to look at with this game is the fun factor. 
 This game is great. Yea, yea, yea, three gametypes all the same, only 9 maps. I've heard it all. 
 Well think about this... maybe those gametypes are fun. Maybe those maps are awsome. And maybe this 
 game is the most fun you'll have in years! Just play this game a few matches at a time, go do something 
 else, and come back. This game is PURE FUN. You'll be playing this with your buddies for months 
 to come. Whether its testing your skills in bot matches with a friend or playing something a little 
 more difficult by playing against others, (Also I should note that the AI in this game is the most 
 Amazing and Intelligent AI I have ever come across in any game ever.) this game will give you great 
 options to play with such as the great Magic and Tech abilities, along with good variations with 
 the races and guns. Put all that together and you've got one good game. Its FUN. PLAY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thecartershow
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a SWEET game, but it might be better to just wait for Unreal Tourney, they're REALLY similar, 
 but the fact that you can play against Vista is cool and idk if UT3 is gonna have that feature. 
 its definately worth a rent, but it might not be worth the $60 price tag seeing as it has no campaign, 
 and the multiplayer map pack is pretty small. also there's only 3-4 game types, so the game will 
 definately be different from every player... its a lot of fun to just mess around with the dfferent 
 abilities and player types. everyone can find the player type/ combination of skills and magic 
 thats right for them and once you've done that, the game takes off so to speak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_X5213
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a multiplayer only shooter with quite an interesting twist. Along with your usual 
 SMG's and Sniper rifles, You can use magic to turn the tide of battle to your favor. It is also 
 the first game for games for windows in which Xbox 360 players can play with Vista players.
  
  Pro's
  -Many magic and weapon combinations make damn well sure that your not going to play 
 the same game twice.
  -Different character classes keep things fresh and interesting
  -play with people on windows vista.
  -Originality
  
  Con's
  -Small number of maps (only 
 9, and three are just smaller versions of other maps)
  -Only three gametypes (CTF, Single CTF and team deathmatch)
  -Needs more to it
  -$60.00 for 
 a $40.00 value.
  -No splitscreen multiplayer You have to have Live.
  
  Despite all the flaws this game has I can say I wholeheartedly recommend for a BUY. This game will 
 keep you interested for quite a while.
  But you may want to wait for a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mosquite
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  First thing I noticed reading comments about Shadowrun was complains about game without single 
 player/campaign mode. So what... I don't here complains about Counter Strike and all you Halo fans 
 what part of Halo 2 have you played most??? Is it the campaign??? I say to you it is not it is 
 the multiplayer. There is only something in killing people online. And then they complain about 
 all characters looking same. And what about CoD series??? Does every people look different??? No 
 they don't. And then there is this floating ladder animation. But who cares. If you can't play 
 game because climbing ladders up look stupid then that is your problem. And then to the real review.
 
  
  When you start playing Shadowrun you will get amazed immediatly by massive changes combining different 
 races, gadgets, weapons, abilities and gaming styles. Do you want to be a supporting dwarf or myebe 
 sniping dwarf or offense katana, shotgun elf mix... Possibilities are endless. Combining this to 
 an amazing gameplay Shadowrun is ready. Try different combinations and choose what you want. And 
 there is one thing that separates this from most multiplayers there is no ranks or scoreboards 
 (like in CoD 3) so there is no cheating. And some people complining about achievements what ruins 
 the fun but I think them more like stimulus to try different styles. So as a summary: Shadowrun 
 is a revolutionary game what lets player to choice exatly how to play in this modern and magical 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ModBox369
Rating: 3.8
Date: Aug 10, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  Shadow run is a very very very shallow and boring game most games you don't know whats coming next 
 or round the corner but in shadowrun you do its such a tidiest game just doing the same thing over 
 and over i played the game for 3 hours then returned it straight back to HMV the very same day 
 as buying it. I just feel that they should do more with the game title Shadowrun and bring in a 
 single player story mode for those that don't have xbox live and also when you get bored of doing 
 the same thing over and over again online thats why games like gears of war and rainbow six veges 
 were so successful to be honest with you i dont even think it should be compared with games like 
 them two because most other shooters and fantasy games are in a whole different league to that 
 real poor attempt of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zabow_22
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 10, 2007 6:56 am PT
Review:  the only form of campaign that exists in this game is training. Six short, tedious levels that 
 are useless to play unless you want some easy achievements. But seriously, i learned more about 
 the game from people online than from the training. On the other hand, online play is very fun 
 and at times somewhat addicting. The only problems with this are the lack of variety between gametypes. 
 There are three different gametypes, but they are all essentially the same thing. Even though this 
 review is generally negative, i would still recommend buying shadowrun. It has many great feature 
 that i have not listed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prtofdacrowd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is an amazing innovative game that seems unfinished in the way you literally stand and 
 float up a ladder and the bland, all look the same characters!
  
  But it is an amazing game, which adds the idea of magic into an online FPS, this could of been 
 very dangerous, but well balanced it creates a special admiration towards the game.
  
  Playing online is a rich experience and can be compared to counter-strike as the new improved version.
 
  
  The weapons, maps and magic are all stunning and playing PC or 360 you wont be disappointed in 
 the value of money wasting hours of your life infront of the TV/Monitor playing this game.
  
  Halo 3 may kill some of the players but not all a strong hardcore following will make you enjoy 
 picking it up after the Halo 3 Hype 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaRkNeSs2393
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Shadowrun is fun. Guns and Magic go together actually really well. But it's 
 really just a tiny sliver a game with no single player campaign (there are 6 training levels, but 
 they don't count at all) . The whole guns and magic shtick the game was advretised with actually 
 is really fun. It's great to summon up a demon thing and have him smite your oppenets. The gameplay 
 is fun. You can choose your side (red or blue. Wow. How innovative!) and then race. Now, I have 
 a problem with the races. The races are pretty off balance. The elves are probably the best, they 
 move fast and regenerate health. The trolls are damage sponges and can be quite usefull. The dwarves 
 are smaller and have a lot of mana *ahem* ESSENCE. But, considering that the game is all about 
 CTF the trolls and dwarves got the short end of the stick, esspecially dwarves. I find no redeming 
 qualites about the short guys. The maps that are there are fun as hell and seem pretty balaced. 
 But there aren't enough! For a game foucused completley on multiplayer, 9 maps (I belive, it could 
 be less) seems afully small. The online is fun, so I've heard. I don't have Live, so I'm stuck 
 offline. Offline is fun, but the A. I. is simply retarded. I have seen them miss corpses. That's 
 right. They can't shoot straight. Or capture the flag. Or really do anything usefull besides distract 
 the other team. Offline I almost always end up killing the entire other team because my team mates 
 are too inept to do anything. My main problem with the game really is: Why Shadowrun? They could've 
 made a new frachise, or used something that isn't totally dead (the last Shadowrun game came out 
 on the genisis) . I'm really puzzled by this. Ok, so I've been somewhat harsh on this game, but 
 it really is a blast to play through. I highlly recomend it to Counter Strike fans with Live. If 
 you fit niether category, RENT BEFORE YOU BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RudeKen
Rating: 4.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun has always been amazing, from it's very roots. This, however, is a disgrace to the title. 
 Right of the bat, you can tell that this game is clearly made for the Xbox 360 and not for the 
 PC. The layout even has the buttons from the Xbox controller built into it FFS. I'm going to be 
 straight up, the gameplay is rubbish. It feels as though they said, HEY, lets just take the Xbox 
 controls, graphics, and gameplay of this game, and cram it inside of a PC. Another down side of 
 course is that Xbox hassles every minute to buy Live. And, of course, because this is a Microsoft 
 product, the online is not free. Microsoft attempts to level the controller with the keyboard and 
 mouse, by changing certain aspects of the game. These aspects, have been murdered. The recoil is 
 beyond ridiculous. The power ups are in odd places on the keyboard, rendering them useless against 
 a Xbox 360 using opponent. The controls alone feel weird and sticky, as though you are pressing 
 the buttons for an extra 3 seconds. This game is not worth getting. $50 for the game, 8$ a month 
 for basic membership, Microsoft is making quite a fortune off of such a ridiculous product, don't 
 be a victim of Microsoft's greed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackinkMG
Rating: 5.1
Date: Aug 7, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Reviewer's Tilt. Actually I thought this game was going to be very good so I had a very open mind 
 when I started playing it. I love first person shooters generally to and Ive played a lot of online.
 
  
  Gameplay. Eee. just gets kind of boring fast. The headshot is hard to achieve because the computer 
 players have a curve on you and can generally kill you faster. And other then that its more team 
 based and frankly most the teams end up being really bad at playing together.
  
  Graphics. Too cartoony for my taste, Nothing special at all. Also there is not much environment 
 that you can interact with. just levels with running around shooting guys, Gets boring.
  
  Sound. Boring, uninspired and simply just crap.
  
  Value. If you have friends to play with... 
 a lot of friends, and for some reason it rubs you the right way... along with all your friends, 
 maybe it could be fun to get into. But... seeing that this happening is really... not going to 
 happen I just wouldnt bother.
  
  Rent first~ you can decide for yourself if you still keep finding yourself curious about the game.
 
  
  INK Black~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLSWITCH
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a Counter Strike-esque fast paced FPS that is enjoyable and fun at first, but then 
 loses it's flavor, if you will, after awhile. The player has a choice of races to choose from: 
 Troll, Elf, Human, or Dwarf. Each with their own strengths and weaknesses. What I didn't like about 
 the game was the way it was played. What I mean is I found myself using the same strategy over 
 and over again and the game type encourages that - in a way. In other shooters like Gears of War, 
 for instance, the variety of game types forces the player to use multiple strategies of survival. 
 With Shadowrun it's strictly a capture the flag match. Either team A will have to defend while 
 team B captures, or both teams will fight to capture the artifact. (The flag)
  
  The weapons are varied from shotguns, pistols, samuri swords, sniper rifles, etc. But the novelty 
 of the game wears thin after awhile because of the two game types that is offered. My recommendation? 
 Rent it or if your so inclined on picking this title up buy it used at your local video game store. 
 Don't pay full price for half a game like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 3, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  +Tight Controls
  +Very Good Multiplayer
  +Creative
  +Cross Platforming
  
  The Bad:
  -No Campaign Mode
  -Half a Game
  -Graphics
  
  Hey, lets all hear a game 
 that has shooting guns in it, but lets spice some things a bit. Spicing it up is adding more magic 
 into the formula of a shooter game. Ever heard of it? Of course you haven't until you played the 
 one game that actually created this risky formula. Let's face it, Shadowrun is probably the most 
 creative online game on the Xbox 360 since... well. Shadowrun has very good multiplayer has explained 
 above, but what really gives this shadow a shine is the creativity the designers put into the game.
 
  
  The creativity is actually the part where you, as the gamer and player, will have to test your 
 wits on surviving on the battlefield with your most trustful friend, magic. Believe it or not, 
 this will help you surpass many objects that will get into your path. But let's no get too carried 
 away from this masterpiece of creativity. The sad part is that Shadowrun could have been a better 
 game. It could have been the next Halo 1 for the Xbox 360 if they spent the time developing a plot 
 and actually craft the multiplayer a little more to the extreme. Also, the graphics are not that 
 good compared to upcoming titles like the Darkness had or others. Shadowrun was more of a developer's 
 dream, having what they want with their own cleverness. It appeared the Shadow run was probably 
 too good for their own cleverness.
  
  Let's talk about the controls. The controls are the most important part of the game. Here, you 
 can created diamond walls to teleporting through walls. You see, that was how clever this game 
 was. You start out of every game of having 2000 bucks, spending it on three primary sections, Guns, 
 Magic, and Technology. If you die, only your guns will be lost, and you will respawn in the next 
 round with your magic and technology, having to buy again your guns. Guns are basically your pistol 
 to rocket launcher. The Magic is the good part of this section of the game. From summoning demonic 
 creatures to reviving your own team mates! The technology is improving your vision, aiming, or 
 heck, reflexes. The game is very superb in this section.
  
  The graphics are just too last gen from this view point. Sorry to say, but this game really needed 
 a paint job because this is no where near what the Xbox 360 can do. It is not that bad, but it 
 could have been improved easily by another year. You have the typical shooting marks off the walls 
 to the awesome and gory bloodstains that look like Halo. You got it!
  
  The sound is very limited into the game. The explosions to the guns all sound the same without 
 satisfaction. The game has very limited songs, counting the annoying credits song, but also the 
 game doesn't really sound like war. You be hearing footsteps across the map to having late sound 
 pitches. The voice acting is very average, to having the scum Lineage saying lines you won't remember 
 the next match. At the end, Shadowrun is only good renting from any place you can find. I personally 
 enjoyed it, making new friends and foes on the way. I loved the game, but I be going to easy if 
 I gave this game a nine. Sorry Shadowrun, but hope if you come back again, make Shadowrun 2 a whole 
 lot more appealing so I can play this game like Halo 2 and maybe 3 coming up. It wasn't enough, 
 so that is why I am saying, A very superb multiplayer that adds a little too much irony into the 
 battle. With tight controls, Shadowrun is very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rick-garza
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 3, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Greatness:
  After putting countless hours into this game I've come realized. I'M HOOKED! There has never been 
 a FPS like this one before! I know i know.. Capture the flag.. but come on The original Ideas behind 
 the Game gives it its wonderful glory. Using Magic Such as resurrection spells to revive a fallen 
 team mate to using futuristic Tech Equipment like The Glider to get to those hard to reach places 
 To Modern Day weapons like Shotgun, Minigun (Chaingun) .. etc..
  This Game is Fast Paced, and Sometimes Strategic if you have the right Team together, But the only 
 DOWNFALL here is the price and Its online only.. 50-60 Dollars Is kinda Expensive for a Online 
 Only Game.. And no Single Player story mode is kinda Not Normal in this day and age of video gaming. 
 And the Graphics.. Sorry Shadow runners! DOWNFALLS:
  Yes it is kinda weird getting shot and the next thing you know your head is stuck in a wall while 
 your body flops around like a flag in the wind.
  And somewhat its does seemed kind of unfinished.. And every now and then you get the World Wide 
 Hated Cannot Connect to Server Words popping on the screen. But that is what makes us all alike.. 
 cause when that pops up you hear everyone go Ahhhh or awwe Come on!, and 1 time i ever heard Argggh 
 In the headsets..
  
  But thats what bring us together!
  
  Anyways, to leave you with something thats very honest.
  
  It is a very fun game, Voice communications 
 are great online people actually talk.. sometimes too much And its worth the pretty penny you pay 
 for it.. especially if your a fan of Online FPS or even Online Shooters period. Just choppy Graphics 
 here and there nothing big though.
  
  Rick Garza 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xitwenty20ix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 3, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is an cross platform online based first-person shooter, which really does it home for 
 the Xbox 360 and PC Windows Vista. Shadowrun has two factions RNA Corporation and Lineage, these 
 are the teams you will playing for and they can consist up to a total of eight people on one team. 
 You will be able to play four different races, all with there advantages and disadvantages, these 
 races are Humans, Elves, Trolls and Dwarves. Humans start the round with more money than the other 
 races ($2500) and due to them being more indepth with technology they don't suffer a essence penalty 
 when equipping tech. Elves are the fastest race and with essence they can regenerate health but 
 will suffer a speed decrease when wielding heavy weapons. Trolls have the abiltity absorbs damage 
 when they are under fire due to their skin hardening, but they will need essence to do so which 
 Trolls have the least of and due to their strength and size they are the slowest race but do not 
 suffer a speed decrease when wielding heavy weapons. Dwarves can absorb essence from anyone and 
 anything magical but their essence regenerates very slowly they can also survive a headshot. There 
 are three different game types: Attrition, Exraction and Raid. Attrition is a deathmatch with a 
 difference, the aim is to kill the opposing team and bodies cannot be destroyed unlike the other 
 two game types and if you have possession of the artifact you will gain knowledge of the whereabouts 
 of the opposite team. Extraction is where both teams attempt to secure the artifact and take it 
 to the opposing base. Raid is where the Lineage can only secure the artifact and need to take it 
 to the drop off point before RNA Corporation can kill them all.
  
  Shadowrun features nine maps to play on Dig Site, Temple Grounds, Poco and Powerstation can only 
 be played on with the game types Raid and Attrition. Maelstorm, Lobby, Nerve Centre, Pinnicle and 
 Favela can only be played on with the game types Extraction and Attrition.
  
  You will need to buy Weapons, Magic and Tech on a buy menu screen many compare to the Counter Strike 
 menu. You are able to give team mates money or will be awarded money depending how well you do 
 wach round. The weapons are Grenades, Pistol, SMG, Rifle, Shotgun, Katana, Minigun, Sniper Rifle 
 and Rocket Launcher. The Magic you can purchase are Tree of Life, Ressurection, Smoke, Strangle, 
 Gust, Teleport and Summon. Tech you can purchase are Glider, Enhanced Vision, Smartlink, Wired 
 Reflexes and Anti Magic Generators. The combonations between using Tech and Magic are countless 
 and really adds something extra to the experience. There are a few Techs and Magic that seem to 
 be the perfect match for each other but who knows what you will find if you experiment.
  
  Now to the Single Player, there isn't too much to say on the Single Player. It has two things to 
 offer, six tutorials to help you get started and a solo play where you can practice against bots. 
 The single player really isn't anything special and this is what lets the game down and I would 
 not purchase this game if you are looking for a Single Player game but it is a must for the Multiplayer. 
 Overall it is a top notch game, a reccomended buy and is a great contribution to the Xbox 360 and 
 PC Windows Vista which is sure to keep most players occupied for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a cool mix of Magic and Weaponry. The Graphics are great, when you're holding your 
 pistol and running around. You notice the great graphical presentation this game gives you. The 
 Main two reasons this game isn't getting as good of reviews as it deserves it this.
  
  1. No Campaign
  
  2. Not enough maps
  
  Both things are true that they do make the game 
 less enjoyable, but they don't make the game NON-enjoyable. You can play bot matches to practice. 
 Then hope onto Xbox Live and enjoy the real bulk of the game.
  
  If you want, you can also get with a buddy on xbox live and play bot matches just with a freind.
 
  
  Yes, the price tag is pushin it, this game is not worth the full 60 bucks its charging, but i would 
 say its worth 50 bucks. Its a good game, that everyone should at least play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnAwfulGamertag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Sure, Shadowrun is basically Counterstrike with magic, elves, and whatever else, but the overall 
 multiplayer experience is excellent. Gameplay is the best part of the game, using variants of CTF 
 as the types of play, but really all the game modes are all out deathmatches. Using magic and tech 
 abilities is really fun, and there are plenty of different strategies you can use. Also, throwing 
 in different races to choose from increases variety. The negatives of the multiplayer is the inability 
 to see your trueskill, although trueskill is in the game, lack of rankings, and finding a match, 
 since you're basically just thrown in some random game with your preferences. Shadowrun could have 
 also really used a single player campaign. The elements in the game could have made a memorable 
 single player experience. Shadowrun is a good game, but it had potential to be the next Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillet505
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  The game Shadow run is a game you would want to buy if you had xbox live. This game can be played 
 in solo mode, but you can only play against bots would get terribly boring. This game is very addictive 
 online, this online shooter is third person. There is two teams lineage and RNA and you have a 
 selection of four different types of race you can be. The race's you can be are human, elf, dwarf, 
 or troll. Theres a good selection of weapons to use and you also start out with a pistol and 2 
 gernades. This game consist's with magic and tech. There is a good selection of magic and tech 
 to use also against your opponents. This is what shadowrun is all about to all of you gamers reading 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaGlide
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is the kind of game thats put itself in a first person shooter that is different using 
 elements of magic and technology. But its also a one where you feel ripped off with only three 
 game modes?! No single player?! The game derserves so much more.
  
  The game is pretty much a fantasy like shooter game. Where you chose i believe 4 different races 
 to battle it out in three modes, Attraction, Raid Mode, and pretty much team death match. Attraction 
 is my favorite b/c it plays like a capture the flag and it gets real intense online. The weapons 
 are not good but not bad. They kinda generic you get sniper, assault rifle, and blah blah. The 
 coolest is the sword cause it makes you feel like a savage. The game's layout is just like counter 
 strike. Buy Weapons and Spells and Abilities. The Spells and Abilities feauture is the best part 
 of the game. Its so FREAKIN COOL. The maps are aweseome too. All are really fun and dont get boring.
 
  
  Let me explain......
  
  Guy's shooting at you..... Teleport..... Shield
  Guy's Dead....... Revive
  Shoot Fireball
  
  Its really good in strategic moments. The game 
 is really fun while it lasts but there is a downfall.
  
  The game lacks a single player mode. I mean all it gives you are tutorials. The game also lets 
 you play with people with pcs but not that many people have it cause i heard it was rip off but 
 anyway the game is great for people online and thats what its for.,
  
  Lets hope the sequel is more fulfilling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoopz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Once you've spent a little money on some guns and spells, it's off to do battle. There are three 
 team-based gametypes, though there isn't a huge difference between them. Two of them focus on an 
 artifact, which is Shadowrun's version of a flag. In one mode, each team wants to capture the artifact 
 by grabbing it and delivering it to a team-specific capture point. Another gametype puts one team 
 on full-time defense, and they must prevent the attacking team from capturing the artifact. The 
 attrition gametype is the only one that doesn't center on the artifact, and instead you just need 
 to wipe out the other team, but since you can win that way in any of the other gametypes, it doesn't 
 feel especially different. Every map can handle an attrition game, but only the larger maps can 
 run raid or extraction games. The three smaller, attrition-only maps are for eight-player games, 
 and they're actually smaller versions of some of the existing maps, which feels like a rip-off, 
 considering there are only nine original maps to choose from. Between the lack of maps and the 
 similarity between the gametypes, you'll feel like you've seen just about everything that Shadowrun 
 has to offer within the first few hours -- provided you can get into a game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  I went into this game expecting a lot. Everything I had heard about it was either very, very good 
 or very, very bad. I played it for the first time and I absolutely loved it. Every time I play 
 it it keeps getting better and better. Once you find out which magic to mix with which tech you 
 will find yourself killing anything and everything in no time. At the beginning you pick your race 
 of either elf, human, dwarf or troll. Next you are put on either one of the two teams. At the start 
 of the beginning round a player starts out with a pistol and that's it. With $2000 credits you 
 have to buy weapons, tech or magic, whichever you prefer. $2000 doesn't go a long way so you are 
 either going to purchasing weapons or tech or magic but never two or more. As you play more rounds 
 and accomplish things like killing players, resurrecting players, healing players, etc you accumulate 
 more money so at the beginning of every round after you have more money to buy bigger and better 
 things. The magic is basically going to be healing, offensive or defensive. You can have anything 
 from Resurrection, Teleport, Tree of Life, Push (like force push for Star Wars game fans) , Strangle 
 (puts crystals on ceilings, walls and floors to keep would be invaders) or many more. The tech 
 is basically the same as the magic having offensive, defensive or just plain handy items. You can 
 have Glider, Enhanced Vision (which lets you see enemies through walls and their distance away 
 from you) and Smartlink which helps target and gives zoom to all weapons.
  The maps are neither great or bad. To me they are just right. Also, the normal thing is for the 
 map to change after every match is over. A match is over when a team has scored 6 points so this 
 can either be a very short time or a long time but not such a long time that you get upset over 
 it. Over all the game is a fun, exciting game. The people i have played ith so far have been great 
 (aside from the few little tykes playing here and there) and have been helpful . For those that 
 like games like Quake, Counter-Strike, Hale 2 (mulitplayer) this is a definite buy in my book . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volpexpress
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  this game shadowrun is a very good game if your into multiplayer only games that is. it is like 
 a mix between counter-strike and unreal tournement. basically at the beginning of each match you 
 have a short time to buy any weapons or magic or equipment you might need and then you fight. the 
 cool thing about this game is that its not your normal fps this game has diferent unique components 
 to it that make it more than a fps. you can use magic. it makes the game much more challenging. 
 like teleportation to revival magic and so on and so forth. there are at least 12 maps and 3 game 
 types like raid, attrition which is just elimination and extraction which is like raid. if you 
 want to test it out and see what im talking about you can download the demo off xbl marketplace 
 and check it out for your self. also there are 4 different races you can be to choose from each 
 with their own strengths and weaknesses that can help you out when fighting against the enemy. 
 from elves ability to heal to trolls ability to create armor you wil be able to test out and se 
 for your self the things they can do. so if your into multiplayer only fps then you should go out 
 and get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weehunt112
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  In my opinion there is too much to think about in this game. After a few games is becomes only 
 slightly easier to memorize all the controls. One of my biggest problems is with the Southpaw button 
 layout. It changes more than just which trigger you shoot with, the screen does not match up with 
 the controller on this controller setting. However that is NOT Shadowrun's only problem. The gameplay 
 is poor and repetitive, especially on Xbox Live. Most players don't vary their weapon or magic 
 choice at all. They go to the same part of the map or even worse they run away from you for a long 
 time dragging the game out. Perhaps the game would be more fun on LAN, but with no split-screen 
 capabilities it just doesn't work. 
  This game is trying to be Perfect Dark Zero (Don't ask my why, that game isn't amazing either) but 
 it just doesn't do it...... At all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gothcheese4444
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Not only does this game have addicting non-stop fast paced action, it also has some of the best 
 graphics i've ever seen. The characters have there own kind of art style, it's a little cartoony 
 but amazingly detailed. The pack a serious punch, especcialy the rocket launcher and minigun. The 
 katana is a little hard to handle but it stil can be very fun to use. The blend of magic, high 
 tech gadgets, and plain-old bullets is perfect. The different races all play differently. In other 
 words, each race has it's own and fun play style. In addition, each level is different so instead 
 of just running and gunning, you're gonna need to find a different strategy for each level. It 
 plays different than most games, which is good. The only reason the gameplay didn't get a perfect 
 10, is for those 2, x-box 360 owners who don't have x-box live gold. Because the online multiplayer 
 is flawless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawngrrl
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  It's an almost, a close call, and a could've been. There are so many groovy little gamer things 
 about Shadowrun that I want to like it. In fact, I have gone back and tried to convince myself 
 to like it. Alas, once the foreplay is over, it just doesnt keep it up long enough put out a good 
 time. If you started out with the training, the let down is even bigger. You get 6 chapters of 
 weapons, tech, movement, and magic training that really wet your appetite. The trainings are well 
 written, the controls are really quite brilliant with a unique and efficient way of handling a 
 fairly complex inventory of skill and equipment. Your movement ability is very fun, from flying 
 (using a glide Tech - you actually sport these superfly glider wings - and during gameplay see 
 the other players using it. It's very cool) to warping distance and a jumping with in air controllability. 
 The Humans and Meta humans available have complex abilities that add interest and variety and the 
 wide range weapons gives you a ton of choice. All the options make for good complexity and excitement 
 in the game, very good attributes in my book. The overall story of RNA Corp, of which you are a 
 member of it's security team, versus The Lineage is compelling. The game book is written like a 
 stolen employee handbook for RNA team complete with post it note messages handwritten by The Lineage. 
 The problem is that the actually game itself has no real point or purpose. No story to follow or 
 missions or anything other the capture the flag (as BG puts it) sessions over and over. It's really 
 cool for like an hour, until the what now and the is this it come. The only thing I can adequately 
 compare this to a really good tease that excites you enough to invest in the date, the dinner, 
 even the flowers, only to be bruttally denied at the door. Kiss Kiss
  
  Dawngrrl Gametart 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manfinger
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  After downloading the demo from xbox live, I was immediately hooked. The introduction of customizing 
 your talents adds a whole new dimension to the FPS genre was way over due; being able to blend 
 various magic/tech talents was a great new injection in to a genre that has been nearly to death.
 
  Once I purchased the game, however, I was dissapointed in the lack of game playline development 
 - mainly in the fact that you can basically do one or two game types... over and over and over 
 and over and ... well, you get the idea. The two game types are basically Capture the Flag and 
 a Kill everyone on the other team variant.
  
  I would have rated it much higher (and valued the experience sooo much more) if game play was more 
 inline with, say, perfect dark zero or something where you go on a variety of missions and you 
 would need to leverage these new magic/tech skills to accomplish them in various ways. But... I 
 can't. For now - its just on-line slaughter matches... which can get old fairly quickly.
  
  Overall, I'm disappointed - but looking forward to the next game developer who can build on this 
 refreshing approach to FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigma83
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This is a very good on-line game. I always wanted to see an RPG style in a first person shooter. 
 I recommend this game.
  Ok , first, this game is a good online game, you can meet up with people u know and play cross 
 platform. One down fall is the game doesnt have a campany mode. Having this mode I Think would 
 increase the rating of Shadowrun. I really like how you can use different races with combinations 
 of magic abilities and tech upgrades to make your character a lil more unique. This is a game you 
 should check out at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_rod
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  If you don't have any friends that have this game then this game is not for you. I tried playing 
 it without any of my friends and it sucked, but when you get three of your friends together and 
 make a party of 4 you are going to have a blast. You will get into games a lot faster when you 
 have a bigger party which decreases the time between games and keeps the gameplay rolling. The 
 training sessions are a good thing but you don't need them to be able to compete with the other 
 people online. I don't think the game is worth the full $60 so check on ebay to see if you can 
 get it cheaper. Now for the pluses... how many games do you know that you get an achievement for 
 tea-bagging someone? My point exactly. I think this game is a joke and that is why I enjoy it so 
 much with my friends. The different magic and tech abilities help each player develop their own 
 playing style and when you have 4 trolls on the other team and each of them have miniguns don't 
 bumrush them or your team will all die. See you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 19, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Thumbs Up 2- Great Multiplayer, ability to use magic, windows-to-xbox playability, Can be different 
 races, and theres swords, lighting effects are pretty sweet. Thumbs Down 2- Not very good graphics, 
 lack of a story or single player, limited weapons to choose from, not a lot of maps which you need 
 for a multiplayer only game, cant no-scope with sniper and you only get 1 rocket for launcher unless 
 you spend another 3000 on one more. Shadowrun is a multiplayer game which puts you on the RNA (good 
 guys) or the oppisite team (bad guys) . The object is to capture the artifact or defend it or you 
 could just kill all the foes. What makes this different from other shooters is your magic abilities 
 which will make you think fast on what your going to do which makes it a fast-paced-tactical shooter. 
 You can trap your enemies in a move called strangle, blow them back with gust, or summon a monster 
 to gaurd a area or attack a enemie. You can also get the spells Resurect which will heal your teamates, 
 but once you res them your there master and if you die they begin to bleed out until someone else 
 resurects them again, and Health tree, if your beside the health tree wether the enemies or your 
 allies planted it it will heal you and give you cover. Another one i found extremely neat was the 
 teleportation spell, which will let you teleport throguh the ceiling, walls, and floors, which will 
 take fast paced to a next level since you'll be chasing Trolls and Elves through walls: P You also 
 get to use latest fureture technolegy. With this when you get enough money you can buy a glider, scope, essence 
 grenades (forget the name) and a few other things. But IMO id stick with glider or scope. You don't 
 get to choose much for weapons you can get a SMG, Rifle, Shot Gun, Katana (yea i know, sweet.) , Sniper, 
 and rocket launcher. You can Choose from 4 different races on either side. Trolls, Humans, Elves, and 
 Dwarves which all have there different abilities but you will lean them while in your training. 
 Speaking of Training that will be as close you get to a story but you will need this to play online 
 since the game is very complex, but don't worry its easy achievments and you will probably like 
 it. In my opinion the game shouldn't be priced as a normal one but maybe at the $35-45 zone, but 
 its definitly a rent because it kept me playing from 8pm till 4am so it really is a great game 
 but it just lacks some stuff but i would still reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  I bought this game about a month ago and for the first week it was great. Second week it was starting 
 to get boring. Third week i only played it once or twice. Forth week stopped playing completely. 
 This is what happens with this game. This game is great for one week then it goes away. The reason 
 for this is simple. No campaign. This is what this game is missing. If they added campaign it would 
 be a great game. DO NOT GET THIS GAME IF YOU DO NOT HAVE LIVE! This game is strictly multiplayer 
 and thats it. There are bots but that gets boring really fast. And another thing missing? Split-screen. 
 This game would be awesome on split screen but thats another thing it doesnt have. So in my opinion 
 this game is great but great for a limited time. I recommend this for a rental and maybe buy it 
 if you really like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargrudge
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  When I played the demo, I honestly thought this game was going to be great. Where else could you 
 fly around, shoot people, and plant trees at the same time? But thats basically all there is to 
 it. With there being no single player mode (in terms of campaign) , the game gets quite stale fast. 
 Almost nobody ever wants to play the game type Raid , which is basically Capture the Flag. You 
 win by default when the entire other team is dead, so why try to get the artifact when it would 
 most likely be easier to wipe the floor with the other teams blood? The weapons are horribly inaccurate, 
 even with smart link on (which is supposed to better your aim) . The game only has three modes; 
 Raid, Extraction, and Attrition. When compared to a memorable game such as Halo 2, the three game 
 styles would translate to; 1 Flag CTF, Neutral Flag CTF, Team Slayer. Thats all there is to play. 
 When you get tired of hearing little kids screaming over Xbox LIVE, you can play a solo match by 
 yourself or play a private match with friends, but those don't count towards any achievements so 
 its a waste of time.
  
  Basically, if you want a game that will get you bored fast but is fun to play initially, by all 
 means get this game. I regret buying it, should've just rented the game for a week and be done 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a sad excuss for a FPS. The games developers said hey every1 loves Counter strike, 
 lets make a counter strike but with something special........ uhhh magic. This game like i said 
 is counter strike in the way there is rounds and when you die you have to wait until the next round 
 and how you buy your weapons at the start of each round, and there are many differences such as 
 you can buy magic at the beginning of each round and use them as you wish. Sounds good no? Well 
 actually the magic gets boring after an hour of play. Things like teleport, which throws you 25 
 feet infront of you or STrangle with throws out a crystal pit and any1 who goes near it takes damage 
 and it slows them down. These things get boring after a short period of time cause they done really 
 change the game that much ( teleport u just end up going threw a wall where a guy with a shotgun 
 one hits you, and strangle just gets destroyed when a dwarf goes near it and absorbs its essence 
 so it disappears.) so when the magic gets boring the game becomes counter strike. Ya well i would 
 have had that much of a problem with that if they had more weapons but sadly they fail there as 
 well. THere is only one of each weapon type so 1 rifle 1 sub machine gun 1 sword 1 sniper ect. 
 so adds nothing different again. THe classes may only be the nice thing in the game. You as the 
 player get to choose you own race which has different addvantages. dwarfs have more essence then 
 everyone and can absorb essence from enemies and allies, trolls as long as they have essence abosorb 
 damage and can carry heavy guns with ease, elves regenerate health over time and humans have all 
 around good stats. Other then that after uve played the game for 1-2 hours then uve would have 
 probably tired out all the classes all the weapons all the magic all the tech and all the maps 
 and there wouldnt be anything to do. Its a decent game for the first while but then its just boring. 
 I would suggest renting it instead of buying it, its a decent game to play with some friends online 
 and you can trash talk and such but even that gets boring. Sorry Shadowrun but this game was a 
 sad attempt to make a new counter strike. Make a story mode next time or add new weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychovader
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  I love Shadowrun, don't get me wrong, but when I first played it, I wondered where the rest of 
 the game was. You get a simple six part tutorial, and then play matches with other Xbox Live subscribers. 
 You can of course also choose to play 'bot' matches with the cpu, but really, other than to get 
 fermilliar with the game, what's the point? It made me feel like we had just paid $60 for half 
 of a game. I must say though, that after picking up my controller and playing a few rounds I was 
 hooked. The multiplayer is absolutely wonderful, but the game itself just seems incomplete to me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Br00klynFin3zt
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a CounterStrike-esque Game but with Elves, Dwarves, Trolls, and Humans. You also have 
 the ability to use magic, magic is used up with Essence, Some Races have more essence than other 
 races. Some of the Magic Spells you may use are Teleport-Where you teleport about 10 feet in front 
 of you, even through floors or walls, Summon - Summon a Minion to fight for you , Ressurect - Ressurect 
 the bodies of your fallen comrades, but note the word bodies, the enemies can destroy your body 
 after they kill you and then you cant be ressurected, another Spell is Smoke- Where you are invurnable 
 to damage till your essence meter runs out. Then there is a Spell Gust - Which blows people off 
 cliffs of ledges but also kills people in Smoke in two Gusts' Hits. So it all balances out. There 
 are so many Difrrent spells, weapons, and combinations possible. Its an all out war. A good multiplayer 
 game for the Xbox 360 and Windows PC Vista, but the lack of single player or longevity, really 
 bring the score down; but best way is to try it out for yourself! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfoxz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  is so so cool game i lovw to play meby i nas buy thes game todey .
  
  so i give the game 87% for map and wapen and the magic in this game .
  
  ok mebey this one 
 is cool for xboxlive but Halo 3 is the king on xboxllive must wait for see thes game .
  
  i see my frenid play on 360 and anathor noe on pc is sound cool to be eilf or man or that manster....... 
 is so hard to bleve were this game come from to meke fun for all pepole to play .
  
  =========================THE LAST WORD ===================
  
  I GIVE THES GAME 9.4 IS COOL 
 FOR ME  YOU WANT GET ME SO COME ON XBOXLIVE 
 AND PET ME . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiniNJ
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game to have cross streamed Windows Vista players and Xbox 360 players. Soon 
 they will be doing this for more and more games. Anyone who makes video games with on XNA or any 
 other platform, should buy this game just because it is a landmark in video game innovation. Microsoft 
 is doing a smart thing by letting players play with even more people not just on the 360 and they 
 are letting people make their own games for the 360. Revolutionary. The second thing I wanted to 
 touch on was the rating of this game. M seems a bit too harsh for the game. The reasons posted 
 on the box for it being M are blood and intense violence. But think about it, by the time someone 
 is 17 they will have seen way more blood in movies and other media sources. The blood does not 
 even look real at all. For a Xbox 360 the blood graphics are mediocre. What also does not make 
 sense to me is that the movie ratings are not at all as strict. Go to a PG-13 movie and you will 
 see way more blood in some of those movies. Some how a 15 year old can go to a movie and see the 
 amount of blood in Shadowrun, but can't play a game with the same amount of gore or less. Overall 
 Shadowrun is a great game and should be purchased by anyone who has a working Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123_octane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Reading Gamespot's reveiw I thought this game was gonna suck until i went to the video store to 
 rent it, I was instanly addicted. In my opinion this game is the best online multiplayer on the 
 360 so far. You can play this game for hours and hours and it never gets old because its different 
 every round. You gotta always watching your back because you never know when an elf comes up behind 
 you with a katana and makes you bleed out. The magic and tech feature is great because it adds 
 alot more fun to it all. Over all this game is a great game it get 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjmiiirep
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  I have had problems with online FPS's. This game is great because it allows you to act as support 
 as you get more comfortable with the different classes. After my wife and I put are kids to bed 
 i will put the disc in and expect to play for a half and hour and I end up playing for three. This 
 is a really fun game and i think that it isn't getting the credit it deserves. I dare say that 
 the multiplayer in this game is better then the multiplayer in Gears.
  
  The graphics have some annoying things. For example, when you go up ladders you character just 
 floats up the ladder. The bots in the training mode are pretty good players so it isn't a waste 
 of time. The achievement points aren't that easy to get after the 60 points you get for training 
 mode completion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is game making use of the Shadowrun franchise, it has passed through phases of pen-and-paper, 
 and rpgs games, and now it has finally come to a FPS worth your money.
  
  Initial impressions will leave wishing you had bought another game. No single-player, no local 
 multiplayer. Only hardcore system-link and Xbox Live matches await you, with the exception of a 
 few training missions. The missions are necesary for you to succeed online, otherwise you will 
 be crushed by hardcore gamers.
  
  The graphics are sleek, and sound is prime. Nothing and bring it down, except for bad reviews and 
 misunderstandings. You have to be prepared to play this game and forget everything you know about 
 its predicessors, otherwise, you will hate it.
  
  The customizations are hidden in its complex character weapon, tech, and magic purchasing system. 
 Each accessory has its pros and cons. The map issues, are just a mistake by gamers, and reviewers 
 alike. There are only 4 areas, but each is split up into multiple levels which are played seperately, 
 and don't forget the DLC (Donwloadable Content) that will become available in the future. New races, 
 guns, magic, techs, and levels are possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BassO-
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Compared to Perfect Dark's rating of 9, I'm a bit confused why Shadowrun scored this low on Gamespot. 
 I actually didn't want to buy it at first, because of its low rating. I'm glad I did, though.
 
  
  I admit that releasing a full-budget title that turns out to be multiplayer only is a bit of a 
 stretch. I'm glad I got it for significantly less. However, compared to short-lived games like 
 King Kong, this game delivers a lot of gametime due to its magic/tech layer. You can outfit a character 
 to fit your mood and style of play and it influences the way you play significantly. By swapping 
 around weapons and power-ups, you get wildly differing strategies. So do the other guys and as 
 a result, no two games are really alike.
  
  It's no Oblivion: it won't change gaming history. It's not even GoW: they bummed on audio, animations 
 and the graphics are somewhat plain. But when the bullets start flying and your teammates start 
 yelling, all that is pretty moot. If you dig first person shooters and you like multiplayering 
 them, this one should be at the top of your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ferret2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game i was put of from all the major reviewers saying this game is 
 basically crap, but when i was signed in to xbox live and seen how many people in may actually 
 friend list was playing it i was shocked nearly every single one had stoped playing gears of war 
 and was playing shadowrun.
  I spoke to one of my main xbox friends and he said the game was awsome why havant you got it allready 
 so i headed down to me local game shop and purchased it got home started playing it and straight 
 away i really enjoyed it.
  I was confused by way it got such a low score in so many reviews, the games fun ok so there is 
 only three game modes big deal lol there is only one game mode in cricket, rugby, and football 
 and people dont moan about them.
  The weapons are cool and the magic abilites are wicked i love teleporting through walls and summing 
 monsters to attack the oppisite side.
  Overall i think this game is wicked and i am upset on how over people have reviewed this game fair 
 enough there isnt a single player ( how many people bother to play GOW single player of COD single 
 player they just play the multiplayer) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreDREb13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  So what to say about Shadowrun? Everything is great. Well, not everything, but MOST everything. 
 Okay, so I guess it's good. But it's still missing some key features that could've made the game 
 MORE than what it actually IS.
  
  First off, where in the hell is the single player? After playing the online and experimenting with 
 everything to be had, you'd think that it'd have an interesting single player experience. The magic 
 mixed with weaponry and the ever-present hunt for the artifact would've made a terrific story, 
 but sadly, it was never delivered.
  
  Secondly, why are animations missing? It's not so subtle as it is dramatic. When walking up ladders, 
 why do they just slide? Perhaps a walking motion would've sufficed, but to say the least, it should 
 be fixed.
  
  Another thing: maps and weapons. The lack of them could make a game such as this unreliable to 
 stimulate your fun-factor. It is fun and the weapons are great, don't get me wrong; but sooner 
 or later, only a few maps will be boring.
  
  Onto the things the game does RIGHT.
  
  Gameplay: solid, great, easy to learn. It's just overall great. It's not painstakingly hard, or 
 too simple. It's one thing the game pulled off, and it did it in the best way. A quick holding 
 down of the 'B' button (when on Xbox 360) will bring you to your Magic and Tech menu. Move to which 
 side you want with the analogue stick and spin it around to choose the desired skill. When on the 
 skill; you may designate it to either RB, LB, or LT by pressing the button you wish it to be on.
 
  
  Graphics: they hold up. They manage to look realistic while maintaining that cartoony feel. At 
 times the pixels seem plastered on, and an ever-present rectangle of light is in your eye even 
 when light is nowhere to be found. But games aren't based on graphics, now are they?
  
  Sound: so-so. You don't hear much music other than the loading main menu. Even then, it's not enjoyable. 
 The game does an incredible job on the sounds of the weapons, though. A katana slicing through 
 flesh; the sound of a minigun revving up; even the voiceovers screaming at you... it's all done 
 right.
  
  Overall I have to say that the game is a pleasant experience. Perhaps it doesn't give anything 
 to the Shadowrun name, as it is quite different from it's predecessor; but it is still an achievement 
 to be held high. Hopefully they will release new maps, weapons, and (a long stretch) a single-player. 
 But until then, I recommend buying this game even if it is void of a few key factors of a game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A55kicka
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Fun to play will last you a good 40+ hours but a big disappointment is that there is no campaign. 
 If you like Counterstrike you will like this. Basically the same thing but with magic. Overall 
 it was pretty good but lack of maps does make it kind of repetitive. The PC doesnt seem to better 
 than the Xbox 360 and vice versa. Character customization isnt there so every character looks the 
 exact same. Has a good matchmaking system, taking a page out of Halo 2's book which made it better. 
 Overall it might be the little things that keeps you hooked on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehEnergy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 7:56 am PT
Review:  I don't agree with the low review scores that this game has been receiving from magazines and websites. 
 You can tell that a lot of effort has been put into making this game an all-round, enjoyable multiplayer 
 experience.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics arent anything special but this game focuses in game play rather than visuals. They 
 are definitely good enough to be able to enjoy the power of you Xbox 360 console and thats all 
 that matters. Some objects in the game look really great such as the Tree of Life and the map texture 
 looks quite cool as well.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  With there being no single play campaign in this game, the multiplayer had to be quality in order 
 to attract attention. The partying system works great; in fact, I prefer it to the lobby system 
 that Bungie used in Halo 2 for the original Xbox. The matchmaking also seems to work well. When 
 you search for a game, you are matched with people with a similar TrueSkill level. This ensures 
 you enjoy your game and makes sure that you don't get owned to badly.
  
  Achievements:
  
  Shadowrun has 50 achievements (at the time of writing) . As soon as you complete the training 
 missions you will have accumulated 60 Gamer Score points. The game gives you evenly spaced out 
 achievements so that it keeps you hooked for a very long time. Some of them are quite interesting 
 too.
  
  Other Notes:
  
  Shadowrun is the first game that Xbox Live and Games for Windows. What this means is that you will 
 be able to play people running the game on a PC. I personally think this is pretty cool and revolutionary 
 to the world of gaming. This game could possibly change the ways developers design their games.
 
  
  All in all Shadowrun is definitely worth your money. You will have an enjoyable FPS experience 
 with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  Sometime u have to wait 10-30 minute if u don't join
  ur Friend game or Recent player How Ever Shadow run is good
  The game is multiplaye-based only 
 the graphic are not next gen they are not too bad also u play 4 Race wich as all speciality
  Elf (Halo being) hit &amp; run Does there Low HP &amp; high magic Troll don't die easy have lot 
 of hp move realy slow almost invuerable to low damage weapon
  human good to get sniper at First round dwarfv Anti magic Being &amp; anti trolls
  Wich make 
 Shadow run unique
  how ever if there is any shadow run II or anything related to it
  they should make more stable server and better graphic and more gun
  and who know maybe more 
 magic.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JC346
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  ShadowRun has a lot of good and some bad. ShadowRun's story is that an ancient power is released 
 and two groups of people, the Lineage and the RNA Corp, fight to control that power. The thing 
 is, ShadowRun has no single player mode what so ever. So your not able to interact with the story. 
 ShadowRun is a mostly online multiplayer game. You are either RNA or Lineage and the objective 
 is to take the Artifact (flag) and run to the point you have to take it too. It may sound bland 
 but it is very fun. You have a medium size verity of weapons. But the fun thing about this game 
 is that you can buy magic and tech devices. The magic and tech adds a very fun aspect to the game 
 and makes it very interesting. You can switch your magic and tech during the game to adapt to the 
 current situation. The downside is you can only have three magic/tech at one time. The acheivements 
 are very fun to get. They might take a while but they add to the experince of the game. ShadowRun 
 is a great online game but I think it should be sold at $40 instead of $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterOfSprites
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  This game was bad; I was surprised at how bad it really is. Don't listen to the die hard fans of 
 there role plays and the original. They are fooling themselves into thinking this is a good game. 
 First off the game play was horrible; it lacked good one Xbox 360 multiplayer split screen. Sure 
 you can play it over live but with out the split screen it really didn't feel like you could pal 
 around with your buds. It also lacked customization, compelling story line, good weapons, a massive 
 lack of maps. When I say lack of maps I am serious there was only 9 maps. With repetitive game 
 play this game felt like something that was only to be played to get out of boredom. The problem 
 with this is that this game was usually what caused your boredom and when you played it because 
 something else bored you; this only cured it for a good 45 minutes. I would rather go outside and 
 watch birds fly around and walk with the wind and see the stars then play this game, but then again 
 that's not saying much, I would rather some one stomp on my foot then play this game. I give this 
 game a low 4.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutta27
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is very different the the 1st version which was an rpg, this is an online only first 
 person shooter which can be compared with counterstrike.
  
  The game is controlled like many other fps game with teh right trigger shooting your gun and all 
 your magic (which you can hold 3 of at one time) is held on 1 of the 3 free shoulder buttons. I 
 love this gameplay, it starts with you buying your magic, techs and guns and then carries on to 
 a two team capture the flag style game, when you hold the flag you have to get it to the designated 
 point. with the flag in hand you go round in a 3rd person view and you can use the flag as a weapon, 
 but if you use any of your other weapons or magic you will drop the flag. The weapons and abbilities 
 are split into 3 catagories, Weapons which is all your guns and your Katana (which is an acient 
 japaneese sword and is very effective) , Techs which is basiclly technology, things like wings to 
 make your character glide, something that gives you an extra level opf zoom with every weapon and 
 also makes it impossible to friendly fire and also your granades. And finally there is your magic, 
 which includes healing trees (does exactly what it says on the tin) and teleport which moves you 
 8-10 feet in the direction you where moving. You can use a limited amount of magic which brings 
 stratergy to the game and each race can use mor or less. There are 4 races in total all with there 
 own uneque abilities, advantages and weaknesses. The game looks ok but still not the best looking 
 game on the xbox 360, the sound is pretty good too, tall the guns sound powerful and each magic 
 has its own sound effect.
  
  To sum this game up, it is by all means not the best fps i have played but definately the best 
 out there on the xbox 360 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vp2247
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun, thats pretty much all that can be said about it. The graphics are decent, there 
 really is no extrodinary sound, and there is single player. Even with all these faults that could 
 pretty much take down any game from the legs, shadowrun stands tall with its neccesity of good 
 thinking and good hands. Not only do you have to shoot your enemies, but you have a variety of 
 options that wlll allow you to make the game even more hectic. Whether your about to die and you 
 use the smoke to become a foggy like silhouette and run away, or your resserecting a dead ally, 
 or even teleporting through walls you will have fun with this game. The game has great replay value 
 with the ability to keep trying different combinations of tech and magic spells, though the weapons 
 may be basic I think it was for the best to keep the mind open for tech and spells. Not only does 
 the variety and replay value come from the abilities but also the races, you can be the balanced 
 rich human, or the speedy ninja elf, or the essence (magic) draining dwarf, or the huge tank troll. 
 You can have fun with each of these races and characterize each of them to different techs and 
 magic. For instance since every time you buy a tech it lowers how much essence you have (essence 
 is just magic or mana if you will) , but as a human there is no tech penalty. So if I am a human, 
 I can buy Enhanced Vision (lets you see through walls and such) and Smartlink (helps your gun aim 
 on the enemies and not your allies) while still having space for resserections and summons. The 
 game is great fun especially once you and some friends go into a private match and play or start 
 joining clans and do clan battles, the game is just pure fun. If you are looking for true next 
 gen type game, you would be better suited else where. Now before you start to think that the game 
 is like a current gen. game then you would be wrong, the graphics are still pretty good; not gears 
 worthy but definatly maybe Oblivion. The games community is usually ok, but the real faults come 
 in the map and game modes section. I know I said the replay value is good, and thats true but some 
 might feel like they want more whether the 9 maps and 3 smaller version of those maps isnt enough 
 or they want more than the 3 basic game modes, which is Raid (Attack and Defend) , Extraction (One 
 Flag CTF) , and Attrition (Deathmatch) . For me I can stay here and have a good time with these game 
 modes because it gives me time to fully learn the maps and use it to my best capabilities. Another 
 problem is definatly the price, its 60 dollars for a multiplayer only game, this is the biggest 
 blow to Shadowrun. That and the fact that many Shadowrun fans from the beggining of shadowrun (I 
 never even knew what shadowrun was until this game) say that it doesnt even use the license to 
 any good, which is true since there is basically no story. If you are willing to cope with the 
 low maps and gamemodes and pay the 60 dollars... then boy are you in for a fun ride. The game is 
 a lot of fun and I hope it will spawn a sequel because this could start a brand new series that 
 might even become a huge hit franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tamarala
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  truly this isn't a FPS at all, it is all about team tactics and cooperation. Sure, you can go off 
 on your own and behave like it is a FPS but then you are missing the beauty and detail of team 
 tactics and kills. The graphics are great, the ladder animation is perfect for continuing a killing 
 spree, and who can ask for more than a pet who kills for you while you heal under a glowing tree? 
 And one must always ask ... Why does magic smell like bacon? The inability to kill steal and the 
 ability to use a variety of weapons and tactics makes for fun, interactive gameplay. The achievements 
 are well balanced and cannot be easily achieved, which is a blessing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atom420
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  Prepare yourself for battles of limitless options and strategies! Shadowrun is a game that brings 
 back the fun and excitement to the multiplayer experience of FPSs. I have not played a multiplayer 
 game so addictively since the days of GoldenEye for the N64.
  
  First off the game has no real storyline, its a multiplayer FPS. so quite simplyget used to it, 
 and dont the give the game bad press because of the lack of a story, as said 2 seconds ago its 
 a multiplayer FPSITS NOT MEANT TO HAVE A STORYLINE!
  
  Right, now I got that sorted lets move on. The main and best feature about this game is that it 
 gives players and teams loads of different options and strategies to choose from, even before 
 starting the battle. Players must first choose their race human, elf, dwarf or troll, which all 
 have their own strengths and weaknesses and from there they then choose their weapons, magic and 
 tech abilities. Only after all these choices are made may the battle commence. Every character 
 starts off with a certain amount of money which is used to buy weapons, magic and tech and how 
 you spend your money is very crucial before each round. These magic and tech abilities really add 
 to the FPS mayhem that ensues as players have to be looking in every direction just in case someone 
 teleports through the floor behind them or is gliding stealthily above them with a sniper rifle. 
 And even nearly defeated enemies can smoke, run away, heal themselves under a tree of life and 
 then come back for revenge.
  
  What I have come to realise also is how much time must have been spent in developing the different 
 maps for the game. All the maps, even though there are only a few, lend themselves to all the different 
 abilities one can acquire. So it is not the case that you will find yourself playing a map where 
 teleport is completely useless. I have played this game for many hours now and am still addicted, 
 I love having the option of playing a stealth ninja elf or a battle hardened soldier human. Quite 
 simply it is the best multiplayer fun I have had in a long time.
  
  There are only a couple of issues I have with the game. The first is that there really are only 
 a limited number of maps, even though they are fun to play on there are just too few of them. Hopefully 
 in the future we will see more maps come out for download. The second gripe I have with the game 
 is that there are connection issues; I find from time to time that I am disconnected from a game 
 and it does take a long time to join a game. And also sometimes I find myself in games that lag. 
 But that having been said that, Im sure there is an update in the works that will sort out most, 
 if not all these connection issues, and come on, it is not the only game that needed patching because 
 of connection issues at release date.
  
  All in all Shadowrun is a great game that any FPS fan should try out. It does take a while to get 
 into as there are so many combinations of weapons, magic and tech to choose from let alone finding 
 which ones work best with which races. But finding your own characters is fun and adds to the overall 
 game. Quite simply FASA nailed it right down!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos-
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  who would want to buy a game where all you do is fight online i dont know. thats defintely not 
 my type of a game. the only thing that makes this game somewhat good is that the online can be 
 fun at first but after 10 matches of the same thing it gets extremely boring and repetitive. shoot, 
 kill, shoot, kill. within that small sentence you can describe the entire aspect of shadowrun. 
 i expected it to be MUCH more then what this is. to me i would rather just stick to my three god 
 of war, gears of war and guitar hero. even if you decide to play this game rent it so you can return 
 when youre done. extremely an all-around bargain bin deserving game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizard142
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 8, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  The Story?
  There isn't much of a story, but, it takes place in Santos, Brazil, and two factions, the RNA Corporation, 
 who is trying to contain it from those who are want to use for evil, the Lineage. Thats Basically 
 it.
  
  Shadowrun plays alot like Counter-Strike, in Shadowrun there are 2 Game Types, Raid, where the 
 Lineage trys to steal the artifact, and Attrition, which is a Deathmatch, but the similarities 
 to Counter-Strike are the fact that, you die, you stay dead, so be Tactical, and you buy your weapons 
 and Magic, you earn mney by killing and such, the game has Basic Weapons, SMG, Rifle, Shotgun, 
 a Katanna Which throws you into 3rd-Person and if your good you can sneak attack your target and 
 cause him to bleed to death, a theres also a Gattling-Gun, a Sniper Rifle, and a Rocket Launcher, 
 thats it oh and you have a Pistol and 2 Grenades which you get every round, the magic is what makes 
 this game awsome, theres a bunch of fun things to buy, in 3 Categories, Weapons, Magic and Tech, 
 Magic has uses magicka, or in the game Esscence , you can buy Magic like Ressurect which brings 
 your dead back to life, but only once for that player you ressurected after that he's gone until 
 next round, theres more to Ressurect than that, but I want to talk about other powers like the 
 Tree of Life, which when you stand next to it, it heals you, thats it, and my 2 Favorites Gust, 
 which is like force Push, it doesn't hurt unless you can push em' off a high height, or gust them 
 while there using the Power Smoke, and my other fav Summon, this summons up a big monster and you 
 can do 2 things with him, aim at a enemy and use summon and he will chase him and kill and move 
 onto the next target, and if you aim at an area and summon him, he will guard that area, there 
 are like 5 or 6 more fun powers to master, also some powers like Summon and Ressurect will instead 
 of use up Essence will in a way Keep the used essence until that power has stopped, so for example 
 if i Summon a Monster my Essence will be taken up by 3 essence blocks, and this will shorten my 
 Essence until the my summoned creature dies, then theres Tech, this includes stuff like an anti-magic 
 generator a glider and Enhanced Vision, which by there names are pretty easy to guess what they 
 are, and theres a few more. Some Tech Takes up Esscence if you have it equipped. Now Lets talk 
 about races,
  Human, the Middle Man, if you have tech Items equipped that take up Esscence it won't take it up 
 if your Human, and you get 500 extra Dollars to buy stuff at Each round meaning you have 2500$ 
 , where the others only have 2000$.
  
  Elf, These tall guys have more magic and Agility, but less strength and Health, But make up for 
 it by having Slowly Recharging Health.
  
  Trolls, These Big guys Have the Most Strength and Health, and take less damage by spines that come 
 up out of them when being shot, but this uses up Magicka, and have stronger Melee attacks.
  
  And Dwarfs, who slightly Less Strength and Health than the Troll, and have the Most Essence, 
 they can absorb Magic by going near friends and foes and magical objects.
  
  There are around 16 maps to Tactically Master and Enjoy in this game.
  You can also play with 
 Windows Vista Players for the First time.
  
  The Graphics? They are Pretty Good with lots of nice effects, and it uses the Havoc Physics Engine, 
 which is always a good thing,
  
  The Good
  Fun Tech Gadgets and Magical Powers to master ~ Fun Multiplayer ~
  Tons of great Achievments 
 to get ~ Different Races for those who like Magic, Agility, Strength, or to just be the average 
 guy ~ Katana is Fun to use ~ Neat looking Effects ~ Great Sound Quality ~ There are a few Big Maps.
 
  
  The Bad
  Choosing a Gender would be fun for some people, its all just men in this game ~ an Assault Rifle 
 Would be nice, Because you don't take on a Magic Terrorist Army with Weedy SMGs ~ you CAN'T No-Scope, 
 you HAVE to be zoomed in to shoot sniper rifle ~ Customizing your own character would be fun ~ 
 Barely Close to the Shadowrun Pen &amp; Paper RPG ~ Some say it takes a long time to find a match, 
 but I haven't had this problem ~ It will rarely have that glitch where your body will get stuck 
 in the ground.
  
  I would Reccomend getting this game, it's a fun different game, but don't worry it's not as hard 
 as Counter-Strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrimalDeathX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  this game is one of the better games i have played i play it alot with my online friends the gameplay 
 is fun with its differnt types of magic, tech, and weapons. this game is kinda like a counter strike 
 just not war its like a differnt theme this game is really cool with your friends. theres a lack 
 of game types theres only 3 and they all are basicly the same having to with a stick called the 
 artifact so its like CTF just tweaked. the awsome thing about this game is the magic you can just 
 revive your teamates and prevent the other team from scoreingand the tech is cool to with thing 
 that help you aim, see through walls, and glide, there is also differnt races you can be lke a 
 human, elf, dwarfs, and trolls , all with there differnt attributes. even though it dosnt have 
 a storyline the multiplyer makes up for it. people who buy this game and dont have LIVE theres 
 really no point because u cant have split screen and u can only play with bots and people who expect 
 other thing well uhh no it says on the cover OPTIMIZED FOR XBOX LIVE GOLD so yea i recommend this 
 game for anyone who likes FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrmelty
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly for the hardcore gamers, an exellent game. Dont believe the critics, they dont 
 take the time to dive into this amazing game. Most people are hyped about the elves and the tech, 
 you really need to take the time to appreciate the different races and there abilities. The magic 
 is amazing, I was a little iffy at first but im in love with all of the spells available. Just 
 the animations alone is worth the buy. This game truly takes talent, you need to be quick on your 
 toes, able to stay ahead of your apponent, and also a good shot, there is no auto aim!! Just that 
 feature alone makes this game that much more fun. You need to figure out the guns and play them 
 according to the situation, really the game comes down to how well you can role play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_JIM
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This is most likely the second or third best game for xbox live. For one, this game offers one 
 of the most balenced and fair weapon settings and characters. Along with this comes the bad, no 
 campaign and few maps. After that though, everything is great, the graphics look really cool because 
 on some levels the town looks dingy and others, it looks totally futeristic. Now jsut so you know, 
 there are four classes, humans which are not that good unless you like extra money to buy more 
 things. Elves which have a decent amount of health and they are very fast with makes them great 
 for using magic because they also have a very high essesence level (essesence=magic) . Trolls have 
 the most health and tollerance, they also are the least affected by guns weight. Lastly there is 
 the dwarf which absorbs essence from magic things or from the people around it. The greatest thing 
 aobut this game is that it is fun and you will want to keep on playing it again and again becuase 
 you know you might be able to take out the whole team full of trolls. lol, this is just a great 
 overall game for anyone that deliveriers a 69% next gen feel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serpents_tear
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Thank god I only rented this game. Rite up front I should say that I am a long term Shadowrun fan 
 and player. When I first heard of the game coming out I was real excited. I owned the SNES version 
 and had a great time with it. I have to say that I went in this with some high expectations. Unfortunately 
 I have been left horribly disappointed. Not only does this version of Shadowrun totally lack any 
 thing resembling a story line but its game play is like a simplistic version of TRIBES AERIAL ASSAULT. 
 Only with out Tribes verity of weapons, maps, storyline (such as it is) , vehicles etc. The only 
 similarity between the Shadowrun RPG and this one is that both have humans, elves, trolls and dwarfs 
 as playable characters. The SNES version at least had the visual feel correct. The current one 
 mite as well have pulled its backgrounds and settings out of Duke Nuk-em. The tech, magic, and 
 abilities dont even match any version of the RPG, SNES or any other. All in all this has got to 
 be one of the worst versions of any RPG to be put out to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYGamer164
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  great, fun multiplayer, takes about 1 hour to learn how to play, but the $60 youneed to pay for 
 this game doesn't justify its value, since there is no single player, all there is training which 
 teaches you how to play, the game is like counter-strike because just like counter-strike you have 
 to buy your weapons, what separates this game from the other first person shooter is the magic 
 that you are able to use which adds a very interesting and fun element to the game, so not only 
 do you need to learn how to use the weapons, but now u need to learn the magic that might give 
 a added edge against your enemy, if you like first person shooters then this game is for you, but 
 if you are looking for something new, you are better off spending your $60 elsewhere 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_offical_jim
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a fun game! After completing the training levels you will pick up on what you do and 
 will be having a fun counter-strike like time. There are four races that are balanced very well. 
 If this was the multiplayer to a game that already included singleplayer then I would say Bravo 
 . But its not! Only has 9 Maps! Can't customize races! No Split screen! And really just a lack 
 of content.
  
  The fact that there is only 9 maps is really pathetic and makes me think that Microsoft is holding 
 some back so they can sell them to be downloaded later. So all in all this is an alright rental 
 game with little content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_boy_phil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  this game changed online gaming by connecting the Xbox 360 with Windows Vista. its an all out great 
 multiplayer experience theres no use in having some crap single player if you have outstanding 
 multiplayer especially since most people now forget about the entire story and single player because 
 they get hooked on multiplayer. if you like counter strike you will like this just think of counter 
 strike on steroids in the future with lots of magic guns and tech. all 4 races have pros and cons 
 which makes this game standout cause in a lot of games theyre are different character to be but 
 they are all the same. the magic in this is awesome its mainly ment for defense and escaping but 
 who cares? the tech (special ability type things) are cool to send theres a glider, wired reflexes 
 which let you run quicker jump high and with a katanna block bullets theres also stuff like enhanced 
 vision that lets you see thru walls and see where enemies are with in about 60 meters and then 
 theres smartlink which is a tech that makes your guns more accurate.
  
  if your a vista or 360 gamer i strongly suggest picking this up. 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SLAPMONGROL
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  You will never fight the same way. There are so many awsome things to do in this game. All the 
 different races, weapons, and powers, all of which are completely balanced. This game comes with 
 a great set of maps as well, they are all really good like Lost Planet, and Gears of War, it's 
 not just a game where every one plays the same thing (R6 everyone plays Attack and Defend on Calypso 
 Casino, TDM on Streets or Casino Vault even though there are tons of extra maps to be played) . 
 All the races are fun, and a great set of satisfying weapons that are all fun to use. Great game 
 modes as well which force teams to work together, or get brutally slaughtered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nomisimon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  when i first started online gaming in FPS's halo 2 was my main title, then the 360 came out and 
 it was PDZ, gears came along and it was a bit hit and miss, then there was this.
  
  this game is one of the few reasons i kept my subscription to gold membership.
  
  the community 
 in the game is second only to that of the halo community (as in the part of the community that 
 isnt made up of whiney 5 year old) the maps, yeah theres only 9 with only a couple of smaller variations 
 but games like this often have DLC maps come out for them a little later on.
  
  as has been said there isnt much of a story line, but that works to the advantage of this game, 
 there wouldnt be much point trying to impliment on because you just want to go online and duke 
 it out most of the time.
  
  theres not much that can compare to this game, its visually pleaseing, gameplay is sound and audio 
 is fantastic, it even has AI bots which pose a challenged even to the most skilled of players which 
 means that if you dont have an internet connection for any period for whatever reason you can still 
 play the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoshslatz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun, gamespot had no right giving this only 6.9. Yeah theres not much story to 
 it and there only 9 maps. You cant give this game such a crappy score based upon that. first of 
 all this game rocks multiplayer, and that is why it was made, for mutiplayer experiences. There 
 is so much innovation to the game that u dont even think or care about a story. Only 9 maps, seems 
 like a downfall for the game, and maybe it is. It also may seem that they get repetitive. But we 
 have seen time and again that the makers of these types of videogames, release new maps. And if 
 those are the 2 biggest downfalls to the game, u got give em a break. at least give the game an 
 8. It is very competitive and fun. IMO a must own title for the 360. Look at the user score and 
 base your decision upon that. The users have it at 8.1 and that is because it is a great game. 
 This is one game that gamespot and other sites got all wrong and scored way to low IMO and many 
 other peoples. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mehroze_96
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has probably the greatest multiplayer system and this game is fun too. In this game we 
 play as one soldier. We can be on the RNA side or the LINEAGE side. Both have different tactics 
 and races. We also have races , sum of them are , troll , dwarf , elf and human. There are many 
 game types. It is a bit simmilar to COUNTER STRIKE but only better. This game has BUY system too. 
 From there we can buy weapons and new kind of tech and magic. The game involves alot of blood , 
 action and especcially a very good mind. There can be certain stratergies in this game. We play 
 as a second person view mode. We can also play third person but only while holding a katana. The 
 game's environment and maps are nice too. The graphics are just too good. The gameplay is superb. 
 The fun ROCKS and this game is just too GOOOD!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgiaboy329
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 6:01 am PT
Review:  This game is crazy and I honestly have no idea how gamespot could give this game such a low score. 
 The gameplay on this game is sweet. There are so many things that you can do such as glide with 
 a glider, teleport, summon minions, see through walls and other crazy things. It's almost as this 
 game is made as a joke, but a very fun and interesting game to play joke. There are only a few 
 maps that you can play on and some of the maps just flatout suck but most of the maps are sweet. 
 The weapons arn't really incredible but i know that ehy wernt shooting for a game with crazy weapons, 
 just crazy things you can do. The achievements are also basically terrible and require you to hae 
 no life at all if you want to get 1000.
  
  THe graphics are pretty good, nothing amazing but nothing terrible. Sometimes it can skip a little.
 
  
  THe sound is really annoying sometimes cuz theres always this screeching sound that i can't figure 
 out want it is if you turn the volume up.
  
  Overall this game is a must buy for anyone who wants to play a crazy fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theholyfry
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  This is a great FPS. The combat is fun, exciting, and well paced. The only thing that detracts 
 from its value is a slight lack of variety. There are 2 game modes Capture the Flag and Team Deathmatch. 
 It is a purely online game, this said make sure you have access to the internet before you buy. 
 The major criticisms of this game are:
  
  1. It does nothing with the licence name. ---- I never played the original RPG but I know that 
 I am content with the world, characters, Tech, and Magic...
  
  2. It is not a polished game. ---- This game looks great, the only thing which makes it unpolished 
 is the fact that you climb ladders by walking up them which, given the existance of magic, is entirely 
 plausible.
  
  3. There is a lack of variety. ---- This is the only valid criticism that I have heard so far. 
 Eventually there will be more maps, and FASA Studios could add other game modes in the future if 
 the fan base demands it.
  
  Verdict: If you have access to the internet, download the demo from live. This game is hit or miss, 
 if you like the demo then buy the game the first chance you get, otherwise stay away and play one 
 of the other great 360 titles out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiddisaster034
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  I think shadowrun is a great game perhaps an amazing game. The idea behind their multiplayer is 
 pretty complex and I would imagine hard to pull off. Its a hard game to start off. When it comes 
 to trying to play against people who already know how to teleport behind you by going through a 
 wall and make you bled out by using their katana. But as you aquire this knowledge and familiarity 
 with all this tech, magic, and use of weapons. You begin to have fun droping and scaring even a 
 troll. Overall in the end shadowrun's only real flaw is that there isnt single player and the only 
 reason I would call this a flaw is. That you are purchasing a multiplayer game for 60 bucks. While 
 I think if they had a single player it would feel tacked on 40 or 50 bucks would have been more 
 just I think. But otherwise Shadowrun is worth every penny of your money so enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheEdgeOfSoul
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a very unique game with some great concepts, and can most certainly be a lot of fun. 
 However, the great ideas in this game are overshadowed by poor execution, all combining to form 
 a mediocre experience. The idea behind the game is that, in the future, ancient magic reawakens, 
 and so factions composed of four different races battle for control over it using nifty spells 
 and high tech machinery. The game's combination of shooting and magic serves to make things interesting, 
 but it's marred with problems. The popular complaint about this game is the complete lack of single 
 player. The only real single player is a series of tutorials, and matches against bots. From there, 
 the game is all online, which is fine for me, since I'm more about the multiplayer in games anyway... who 
 doesn't like playing with friends?
  
  The multiplayer, however, still isn't great. There's no split screen, which means it's LAN and 
 Online only, so for LANs each individual player would need their own Xbox, TV, and copy of the 
 game. The real problem with the game being multiplayer only is that the content is so bare bones. 
 The graphics are okay, but not great. The best example of poor graphics being of course that there 
 is no ladder climbing animation. The weapons in this game all feature recoil, which in theory is 
 a cool idea for any first person shooter. The problem is that the majority of guns in the game 
 severely lack power, so between missing, weak shots, and competing with all the spells, gunplay 
 is quite an arduous endeavor. There is, however, a good selection of spells and gadgets to switch 
 battles up. Moves like Jedi-esque Force pushes, teleportation, radar, healing, resurrection, gliders, 
 hackneyed swordplay, and temporary cloaking and invulnerability really help make the battles a 
 dynamic experience. The trick is, only so many spells and gadgets can be equipped at a time, so 
 one must choose wisely. When the game starts, players have a set amount of time to buy weapons 
 and spells, using money earned through kills and winning matches. The game takes place in rounds, 
 and once you die, you're done for that round, and lose only your weapons... unless of course you're 
 resurrected. There are four different races to choose from as well, each with it's own advantages. 
 Humans are balanced but start with more money, elves are fast and have a lot of magic, trolls are 
 big and slow but get more armor as they are shot at, and dwarfs drain magic from those around them, 
 and can survive 2 headshots. Again, all of this sounds fine and good for the most part. But the 
 bottom line is that a full priced game that's multiplayer only should have an OUTSTANDING multiplayer. 
 And this game doesn't deliver. There are only nine, often similar maps, and the only game modes 
 are deathmatch and two games where the object is to steal a relic and return it to base. In one 
 version of this game mode, one team attacks and the other defends, and in the other, both teams 
 try simultaneously to recover the artifact. These aren't bad modes, but again, for a multiplayer 
 only game, they really should've tried harder to offer more content. As it stands now, I've played 
 Betas with more to do. If this game released for less than 30 dollars, it wouldn't be a bad purchase. 
 But this isn't nearly a full game, full of wasted potential, and should be priced as such. A good 
 expansion and patches could make this game really stand out, but all of that that will undoubtedly 
 come at the cost of even more money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocketman97
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 12:42 am PT
Review:  The core gameplay idea of Shadowrun strikes initially as a great idea, and the use of spells is 
 rather simple and well implemented. Both the differences between races and all of the tools at 
 your disposal give a quick glimpse into how great of a game this could have been. But some missing 
 animations and other small things keep this from really shining. In motion, the game runs well, 
 keeping up a consistent framerate in the games i played, but small things like the fact that your 
 legs don't move when you go up a ladder show just that the game seems to have needed a little more 
 time in development. The magical abilities are able to be executed easily, from teleporting through 
 a wall, to spawning a tree of life, and all of the abilities have some very handy uses. Also, the 
 glider and other tech tools can come in handy when chasing a sneaky foe around the map. However, 
 a real flaw, or more like a letdown is really the complete lack of a single player story or mode. 
 So, if you do not have online multiplayer, even if you have a few controllers at your house, as 
 far as i could find there is no split screen, leaving the whole offline demographic in the cold. 
 The graphics, while not stunning, do serve their purpose and do not at all hinder the player. Although 
 they may seem a little odd, they do allow the game's somewhat magical theme to be easily displayed, 
 but some polish could have been added.
  
  Like the graphics, the sound is decent; guns pop and the cries as people are shot do satisfy, but 
 there really just isn't much to say that makes the sound stellar, just average.
  
  If you have Live, this is a game that is at least worth renting because of the possible intense 
 matches online with friends on both xbox and pc. however, without live, this game will really only 
 last you a few hours before you get a case of been here, done that syndrome.
  
  Overall, Shadowrun is not a terrible game, just, it really could have used a few more months in 
 development, and the inclusion of at least split screen multiplayer really could have saved this 
 game from mediocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IKKF
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Another highly anticipated game for the Xbox 360 is out again with the name of Shadowrun. You may 
 remember the classic pen &amp; paper RPG for the Super Nintendo. It's not the same at all. The 
 change is like from woman to man. (RPG to Shooter) Despite its Extreme Makeover, it still has some 
 role-playing elements. When you get into a game lobby, you are given an assigned team, then you 
 can choose between 4 races: Humans, Elves, Trolls, and Dwarves. Humans are nothing special, but 
 they have less penalty of Essence (whic is basically mana or magic power) on Tech (such as gliders 
 and enhancements like smartlink) . Elves have lower strength, but have the ability to regenerate 
 health over time and are the fastest of all the races. Trolls are the slowest and have a low amount 
 of Essence, but they are really hard to kill and they can cary any weapon with their assigned speed 
 (so you run as fast with a pistol the same speed when you're carying a rocket launcher. And finally, 
 the Dwarves have a lot of Essence, but they regenerate slow, but that can be cured buy standing 
 next to another player, Tree of Life, or Strangle to leach their Essence. After that you are put 
 in a game of Raid (1 side CTF) , Extraction (2 side CTF) , and Attrition (Round-based Deathmatch 
 with no Ressurecting) . The lack of varitey in the games and maps is questionable, but free DL content 
 could fix it. And, for a competative Multiplayer game, you would have to expect leaderboards and 
 stats, right? There needs to be an update, because I want to know how many games that I've played, 
 how many kills I have with each weapon, and my best race, weapon, etc. But if you spend a lot of 
 time on Xbox Live and love Counter Strike, I strongly reccomend Shadowrun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suvysuv
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  shadowrun is a bit of a disapointment. i went to my local game shop to get shadowrun and i rushed 
 home i was so excited i put it in the 360 and im waiting still waiting i look in the manual where 
 the hell is the single player mode guess what guys theres no single player it just learns you the 
 A2B of shadowrun ready for the multiplayer games. what can i say about the multiplayer well after 
 being gutted that i spent &pound;39.99 on this game i went online with a few of my friends and 
 it was really good fun. it really is in the multiplayer where the game shines apart from all that 
 its not all good theres no downloads for it so you will be on the same maps you cant custamise 
 who ever you pick in the game you will look like everyone else who has that same character. a bit 
 of a stinker if you ask me you would think there would be loads of maps custamise you character 
 thousands of ways you would think thay would give you all these things becouse of no single player. 
 you get one or the other you never gave use nether . well do you buy this game well if you have 
 a internet connection you will have of fun
  
  but i think you should consider something else theres alot better out there or save your money 
 and wait for halo 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwner-peters
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 5:34 am PT
Review:  when i bought this game i was very skeptical about it as i thought it was going to be just another 
 shooter. i was very wrong. the easy to understand and quick tutorials give the player a great way 
 to get into the game. Also the achievements are varied in difficulty, excluding the shadowrun fever 
 achievement which is quite irrelevent. Now, the gameplay itself is amazing as their are so many 
 possibilities for magic and tech which counteract each other amazingly. If you have a clan of 5-8 
 people this game is a defenite for you and your clan. The characters are varied in abilty and stature 
 and the choice between dwarf, elf and troll is entirely a personal one ( i have left the human 
 character out as they are lacking in there abilities ) . One complaint however is the maps and game 
 modes as you feel that a few things graphically wise have been left out of the final product. Also 
 the fact that only 3 game types were in the game is confusing as you feel the game doesnt need 
 them but it would of been nice if they were available.
  
  peace
  Mike 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow218
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Awww... Shadowrun.... It's a good game but feels like somethings missing.... But it's awesome tho.. to 
 say the least. Ok... I love the game... but it just take to damn long to find a damn game to play... and 
 when you do its eithe half way over or your playing with people who know how to do evrything in 
 it... which mean UBER PWNAGE ON YOU!!.. which means no fun... but the fact that its like CS: S is kinda 
 cool.. even with the magic, tech crap.. but the summon thing.. is kinda useless... and also the fact 
 that they need some more slot for magic and crap.. i mean i hate switching in the middle of battle 
 from gernades to my smartlink or something it get frustrating.... and.. also the fact of the maps 
 they need more maps and some variaty also in some thing... lets just hope ther working on soem patches 
 and marketplace downloads right now if not then this game is going to be sleved really fast... then.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutTrooper
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  If you've ever played the you will see it has no single player. The game clearly never wanted a 
 singleplayer. I think too that all this game was aiming for was a new generation of counter-strike. 
 All the game wanted was a counter-strike type game but too ad magic so its not a complete copy. 
 The gameplay was great but a big flaw was climbing ladders. The animation was terrible for climbing 
 ladders. The game different characters like the humans, elf's, trolls, and dwarfs were well made. 
 Elf's are fast, trolls a strong, dwarfs suck up magic, and humans.... well they suck in every way 
 expect their money. Otherwise this game is great. The actually made it so you can combine weapons 
 and magic without the game being poop on a stick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newnab
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  One game that has no doubt sparked debate since it's announcement at E3 over a year ago is Shadowrun, 
 the worlds first Live Anywhere game (That means Xbox 360 and PC gamers on the same servers) and 
 an FPS which tries to break the mould, or at least bash it about a bit, by throwing various magic 
 skills more akin to an RPG into the mix.
  
  Shadowrun is based on an old Pen and Paper RPG and RPGs from the SNES era. However, it is very 
 different from any Shadowrun before it in that FASA have taken it into the realms of a Multiplayer 
 only first person shooter as opposed to it's usual RPG roots. They've taken various liberties with 
 the license and... To be honest, if you're expecting something anything like the old Shadowrun 
 games, you're going to be dissapointed.
  
  If you're more like me though, and you just want to shoot people up in new and interesting ways, 
 then Shadowrun may well have something to offer you.
  
  There are four classes you can play as, each of which have their own strengths and weaknesses. 
 There are humans, who're average at everything but start with most money, elves, who're fast, regenerate 
 health but also have the least health in the first place, trolls, who can take enormous amounts 
 of damage with their hardening skill, though they're slow, and dwarves, who can steal other peoples 
 essence (handy, seeing as their essence regenerates slowest) and have the most essence to spend.
 
  
  So, once you've picked a class for the match you get the actual gameplay. There are three game 
 modes, all of which revolve around The artifact . In Raid, one team tries to steal the artifact 
 while the other defends it, in Extraction, both teams are trying to steal the artifact away to 
 their capture point, and Attrition is essentially a death match where the artifact, when picked 
 up, shows you where all the enemies on the other team are. They can also see where YOU are if you're 
 holding the artifact though.
  
  The start of each round gives you the option to buy weapons, magic, and tech abilities, aswell 
 as gift some cash to a teammate if you're feeling nice. The weapons are standard FPS fare with 
 nothing of real note, with the variety (and main meat of the game) all being found in the magic 
 and tech abilities. Magic skills and tech abilities can be mapped to three buttons on the controller 
 (left and right bumpers and left trigger) to quick cast/use them during battle, and much of the 
 game is decided by what abilities you choose and how you use them. Among the magic there is Ressurect, 
 Gust, an ability to turn into Smoke, a Teleport, a tree to heal your comrades (And anyone else 
 in the area) and the ability to summon fearsome minions to go forth and do your bidding. On the 
 tech side of things there are Wired relfexes for faster movement and the ability to block some 
 bullets with a katana, enchanced vision to see through walls, and an extra bit of aim, aswell as 
 the nifty glider for getting around.
  
  It's fun to experiment with the different variations to find things that work well for you, and 
 most of the different skills and abilities have satisfying rewards on the battlefield.
  
  The achievements for the game, in my opinion, are well designed. There are plenty you will get 
 quite early in the game and plenty for the hardcore who're going to be fragging all summer. There 
 are also some very clever and/or funny achievements that try something new, some taking advantage 
 of the fact that it's a cross-platform game. There are achievements for avenging your own death, 
 an achievement called Brother From Another Mother for ressurecting a PC player, and even an Achievement 
 called Shadowrun Fever , a viral achievement where you must perform the unpolite act of teabagging, 
 or thrusting your virtual scrotum into the face of a downed enemy, who already has the achievement 
 himself. There are elements to Shadowrun which definitely feel like they could've used a bit more 
 polish. The Matchmaking system is slow and connection issues are rife. Some achievements apparently 
 will not work for some, and there are places where things like Ladder animations are just plain 
 missing. These areas are a shame, but patches are in the works to fix most of the issues.
  
  The game itself only has 9 unique maps, with a couple of size variations. At only 9 maps, three 
 gametypes and no clan system, this game will seem very steep in terms of cost if you're paying 
 full price for it. However, if you can get it for cheaper, which many retailers are offering, this 
 game may well keep you occupied until that next big game you want comes out.
  
  At the end of the day, Shadowrun definitely isn't for everyone. There are aspects that feel unfinished, 
 things that just shouldn't be, and for full price it will feel like a rip off. That doesn't mean 
 it isn't worth playing though, and for many, Shadowrun is a great experience that is going to be 
 enjoyed for a while to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTank3320
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  The greatest multiplayer game since Halo 1. If I can play this game for as long as I have Halo 
 1, there should be no question about the price tag. The game is perfectly balanced between races, 
 weapons, magic and tech. The best FPS for any console right now, hands down. You need to download 
 the demo, and make sure it is right for you. There is a very steep learning curve, and you will 
 need to take some time to learn everthing about the game. Once you do that the game becomes one 
 of the best experiences I have ever had with a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salamancecool
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is one of the first game to have a Vista-360 thing going on, but it seems a little unfinished. 
 At points in the game the graphics lack, such as on ladders and on some textures, that's not to 
 say that all the game looks bad, some of the magic effects look nice and crisp. The lack of guns 
 is a downfall for Shadowrun and multiple rifles would have been better. If they bring out a map 
 pack it would be worth getting since there are a lack of level to play on. However there are some 
 good sides to shadowrun such as the magic which brings a whole new side to your regular run-n-gun 
 shoot 'em up's. But the magic could have done with more attack magic, mabey a fireball or too, 
 mabey something a little more creative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kariyanine
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  While Shadowrun has been out for just about a month now, I have held off in giving my opinion of 
 it until I had a good amount of time to play it. After having played a solid amount of the game 
 there are some good points to the game and there are some bad points to the game. Unfortunately 
 while the good is very good, the bad (however minor it may be) is enough to knock this down a few 
 pegs.
  
  Shadowrun is supposedly based on the pen and paper role playing game of the same name. While I 
 don't know much about the pen and paper game, I do know you could call this Dungeon's and Dragons 
 or any other pen and paper game and it wouldn't fit the license. This is because Shadowrun is an 
 online only team based first person shooter. Outside of a loose backstory and some character mechanics 
 the only thing linking this game to the classic RPG is that you play it with other people. That's 
 not to say the game isn't fun because it misuses the license, quite the contrary because Shadowrun 
 is a blast to play. Unfortunately the $60 price tag will be a little steep for some people, and 
 rightly so since Shadowrun seems like half a game. The lack of a single player campaign, something 
 that was never promised, compounds the small number of maps (nine with three variations) and games 
 modes (three but two are very similar) . By comparison Halo 2 launched with a single player campaign, 
 12 maps and a slew of game modes. Graphically the game looks OK, it certainly isn't going to be 
 a showpiece for your gaming though. There are some animation glitches, most notably the ladder 
 animation (or lack thereof) , they aren't jarring enough to draw you out of the game but they can 
 look a little odd. Sound comes out a bit better as the guns have a nice crisp report to them. The 
 game itself plays like any other team based shooter, only this one has the addition of magic. I 
 hear many people calling the use of magic innovative. I was playing with Force powers years ago 
 when I played Jedi Knight against other people online, Shadowrun just manages to use them in a 
 team based game.
  
  There are six training levels that teach you how to use tech and magic and it has the option of 
 you playing against bots but the game was built for online play. The online play is a mixed bag. 
 First off it sometimes takes quite a while to connect. The 360 version uses a matchmaking system 
 that pairs you with players of similar true skill but you wouldn't know that because the game keeps 
 all its stats to itself, so you just kind of have to assume the game is matching you up with similar 
 players. Once you get online the game can be fast and furious, or a strategic battle depending 
 upon who you have been teamed with and who you have been pitted against. Like most online games 
 your experience can be pleasant or filled with racist 10 year olds, it's like a cracker jack box 
 in its randomness. Shadowrun is missing some standard features for an online shooter though, most 
 notably leaderboards and personal stat tracking. Outside of the games achievements there is very 
 little reason to continue to play this game. Paired with some of the other shortcomings already 
 mentioned Shadowrun comes across as about $20 to $30 too expensive. One can only hope that some 
 free downloadable content is coming down the pipeline because this game is good, just not $60 good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnedge
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  I rented this game and within 5 matches after the whole training thing i was done.... brain numbingly 
 dull with a severe lack of maps. although i havent tried the Xbox live 1/2 of the game i cant imagine 
 it makes up for all the flaws this game has. I was very hyped about this game too and was eager 
 to play it but my dreams of a cool new innovative shooter bringing something new to our genre were 
 crushed by cut corners and lack of real effort on the developers end. The sound is also an issue 
 in this game, or lack of besides the basic gunfire and so on the music is near non-exsistant and 
 the visuals dont have anything new to offer that we havent seen before. The controls itself takes 
 awhile to get used and the training missions to get u started should be perscribed to insomniacs.... way 
 too slow and buggy at times i feel asleep through training mission 4. Dont even waste the $7 renting 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zbu85
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  When you first play this game it seems to be shallow as a cup of water but get into a good game 
 with people that are competent enough to point and shoot and you have your self a good time with 
 weapons. While its lacking in the whole depth department it does have some good points. You can 
 take on the other team with tactics or just go Rambo and hope you live long enough to kill that 
 damn dwarf with a chain gun. Weapons have weight characters have limits. All in all its a good 
 game just not much meat in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vexx365
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  First am not writing from a view of a die hard shadowrun fan . I barely know anying about the shadowrun 
 universe. So shadowrun is a online first person shooter that does nothing to the shadowrun universe 
 but aside from that its a great shooter. The shooting side of the game is pretty basic unsually 
 keeping your aim on the opponent and letting lose is all you need to do and there is not a wide 
 range of weapons. The more exciting aspect is Magic and Tec you start each round buying weapons, 
 Magic and Tec. Magic works like this each race has different essence size, essence it is the same 
 as mana and you need it to use magic. Now, Tec does not need any essence but having Tec equipped 
 will take up some of you essence meaning you have less to work with. Then you get to choose a race 
 ;theres the humans, which are a balanced race, there are the elves who are fast and regenerate 
 health but have a small health bar. The dwarves are hard to hit because of there size and can survive 
 a headshot plus have the biggest essence but take twice as long to regenerate their essence but 
 absorb essence. Last are the trolls, which being slow and having a low essence bar but can take 
 a whole lot of lead and dont get slow down by heavy weapons. Theres no single player just some 
 training sequences which is a shame because I could think of some cool mission you could have to 
 sneak in to a base and grab the artefact (which is a flag) and take it to the roof to be picked 
 up by a helicopter before it explodes. The graphics look great for most of the game but whats 
 weird is when you walk up a ladder you see some one floating up the ladder. its a great game but 
 it feels a little unfinished so you dont feel like your getting your monies worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djord02
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  I'll cut right to the chase: for $60, Shadowrun isn't a great value if you're looking for a single-player 
 experience, but if you have Xbox Live, it offers a truly enjoyable and unique multiplayer experience 
 that will keep you coming back time and time again.
  
  There aren't many maps in Shadowrun -- there's only really nine -- but each of the maps included in 
 the game is well laid out and enjoyable. However, the game's art direction is somewhat questionable, 
 and other than different colors and slightly different character models, there isn't much to differentiate 
 players on your team from the other team. Likewise, the included maps offer some variety, but their 
 artistic appearance often seems disjointed and mashed together. Rarely, except in the cloud map, 
 does the game offer any sense of creativity or consistency in art direction.
  
  The true appeal of the game is its unique implementation of magic and tech abilities. The gameplay 
 breaks down similarly to Counter-strike, where you purchase weapons based on money earned during 
 each round, but in addition to weapons, you also have the option of purchasing tech and magic abilities. 
 You can purchase up to three of these abilities, and you can bind their use to the left trigger 
 button, left bumper or right bumper.
  
  The tech and magic abilities are very interesting, and it is a lot of fun to experiment with different 
 combinations. The abilities you choose to purchase will dramatically change your gameplay experience, 
 and some combinations of magic, tech and weapons provide advantages in combat.
  
  For example, if you buy a katana along with the wired reflexes tech ability , you can block sniper 
 bullets and some other types of gunfire with your sword. If you buy the tree of life ability along 
 with smoke, you can heal yourself while remaining immune to all other attacks (other than gust) .
 
  
  Character classes also play a role in gameplay. There are four player classes available: dwarves, 
 humans, trolls and elves. Each of the classes has a different advantage and disadvantage, and some 
 classes are better suited to using some of the different tech and magic abilities than others.
 
  
  For example, elves and dwarves are particularly suited to using magic, whereas, trolls and humans 
 seem to benefit more from tech. At first, the various tech, magic and character abilties can be 
 a bit overwhelming to new players, but part of the fun of the game is finding out creative combinations 
 that suit your style of play. I still continue to find out new gameplay strategies. For example, 
 I like to use the shotgun with teleport. I often will teleport right next to a person, shoot them 
 with the shotgun, and teleport away.
  
  When I use a dwarf, I tend to buy the tree of life, because not only does it allow me to heal myself, 
 but it allows me to regain my magic (dwarves have the ability to drain magic from other players 
 and magical objects) . Figuring out these little nuances to gameplay is part of the appeal of the 
 game, and you can spent a lot of time experimenting.
  
  In terms of graphics, Shadowrun isn't stunning, but the textures are sharp and clean. The player 
 animations are relatively simple, and there's not even a climbing animation for going up ladders. 
 Also, you cannot customize your character, so you end up looking exactly like every other human, 
 dwarve, troll or elf in the game. In terms of graphical bells and whistles, the game fails to meet 
 the standard set by Gears of War, which utilizes the most advanced lighting and bump-mapping effects 
 available. However, the various magic effects in the game are flashy, colorful and impressive.
 
  
  If you are looking for an interesting storyline, you won't find one here. There is supposedly a 
 war going on between the RNA and the Lineage, but because there is no single player campaign, the 
 differences between the two sides and their basis for fighting is basically ignored. All we know 
 is that they are fighting to control magic, and that's about it. The game features an opening cinematic 
 that shows a volcano erupting with blue energy -- supposedly a terrorist attack staged by the Lineage 
 -- but the game never explains what that whole scene was all about. It's too bad, because it would 
 be fun to truly understand the backstory, and to play through a single-player version of the game, 
 utilitizing all of the neat magic and tech abilities available.
  
  As it stands, you are basically stuck with Xbox Live multiplayer, or single player matches versus 
 bots. The bots range from weak to vastly overpowering, with little leeway inbetween. You cannot 
 earn achievement by playing against the bots, so they are basically just a time waster for you 
 to try out different abilities while not playing online.
  
  Connecting to multiplayer games online can sometimes take a while, and inexplicably, you will sometimes 
 be in the middle of a match, when suddenly, you will get a server has left the game error, which 
 tends to kick you back to the startup screen. This can be quite frustrating, but hopefully, they 
 will iron out these issues.
  
  One of the neat features of the game is the ability to play against people who have the Windows 
 Vista PC version of the game. So far, I haven't been able to tell when I'm playing against PC players, 
 but I have earned some of the related achievements. Overall, I think it's a great idea, and I hope 
 more games take advantage of it.
  
  If you enjoy online shooters and you have Xbox Live, Shadowrun can be a tremendous amount of fun, 
 and it provides a reasonable summer distraction while you wait for Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamsakki
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  So lets start with the basics:
  Shadowrun is a multiplayer only team game.
  Did i say team?
  Yes. the most valuable thing you will learn is that you will need alot of teamwork 
 to win matches and rounds.
  The Races you can pick are: Trolls, Dwarfs, Elf`s and Humans
  
  Trolls are slow but really strong and can harden when taking damage, but harden requires essence.
 
  
  Dwarfs are fast, cant take a one headshot without falling to claws of death, Has alot of essence 
 but cant regenerate it. But Dwarf can gain essence buy leechin essence from other players or magic 
 objects
  
  Elfs are fastest race in game, but so they are the weakest, they can also regenerate health making 
 them really good Hit and Run players
  
  last but not least..
  
  Humans are a basic race if you dont know what to pick.
  humans even get more money at start (2500 
 out of normal 2000)
  and they dont get tech minus points, which means the essence spots wont get full if you have a tech 
 on your slot or are using one
  
  So how about whole game then?
  
  Well sounds are really nice, there are alot of nice little special effects and when you throw a 
 tree of life, your character might shout tree of life automaticly just to let other members of your 
 team to know that there is tree of life nearby
  And its always fun to shoot a sniper rifle when the sound of firing it has some balls.
  
  Graphics 
 are ok but could be better, for 360 the GFX (graphics) side looks a bit outdated, but the effects 
 are a most amazing.
  casting a Strangle to the door really looks like that you cant go trough that.
  and casting a 
 smoke makes you invisible and you actually smoke a bit while using smoke.
  They also added some blood to this game which is fun.
  shooting someone with a pistol causes 
 them to bleed a bit (not bleed to death or leak) and it looks so much fun when you get someone 
 with katana from behind and the enemy starts to leak and spray blood from theyr neck.
  awsome and messy at the same time!
  
  Gameplay is really really high on this game.
  there 
 is counter attack to every attack which makes the game balanced
  and also the races are really well balanced.
  Moving around the maps might be bit confusing when 
 starting the game since some maps are large and some just look confusing
  also this game has one flaw on gameplay..
  if you are playing with friends at late night and 
 you gotta go to work or wake up early in morning, you tend to say well lets have 1 more match ok? 
 
  because the game really hooks you up
  
  Overall the game is really worth the price of full game, because the gameplay is so addictive that 
 it keeps you coming back for more and more
  
  But if you dont like to pay full price for game what is multiplayer only, dont buy this then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrianLittrell
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Amazing Mulitplatform Gaming. Should Have been 30 bucks though. Warhawk is also a multi only and 
 it is only 30. I was really happy to see how well this game performed online. Little to know lag 
 was great with so much going on at one time. the graphics are superb in HD not so good on regular, 
 but still a great game. I have a problem with the maps. Only 9 to count of right now and at 60$ 
 I just don't feel good. I feel ripped off a little bit. Microsft basically gave us a beta. It's 
 fun, but doesn't justify the price. I own the game and love it. I don't love the inconvience of 
 9 levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofdabeach2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a first person shooter that has alot of fun gameplay to offer the consumer. But not 
 enough content to keep them playing it for too long after purchase. Basically if you like counter 
 strike with the whole ctf modes and buying menu system. And having some magic and tech abilitys 
 to spice up the gameplay in new innovative ways. Then this is the game for you. But if you don't 
 have xbox live dont' even bother with shadowrun. Playing against bots is not the move with this 
 game. There is no single player offline mode except a 6 part training mode and some bot fights. 
 With only 9 maps and no real customization for your characters it feels like they could of done 
 much better with this game. Shadowrun is a very fun game to play but having to pay $60 bucks for 
 a allmost finished game is a slap in the face. Being that there is many other games that offer 
 at least 16 maps and customization for your char and more game modes and offline single player. 
 Gamefly or Blockbuster is the way to go with this game I wouldn't pay full price for this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sipx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is one of the best FPS to come out in a long time. Not only does it have the familiar 
 Halo-esc controls and movements but it also takes counter strikes famous buying weapons at the 
 beginning of each round game play to the next level.
  
  Shadowrun isn't the standard FPS where one could pick a fight with any one else and come out on 
 top due just to aim and getting the first shot. A player must know his opponent and plan accordingly. 
 For example if an elf with an SMG were to try to take on a troll with a mini gun well, the elf 
 is just about as good as dead. But if the elf has anti-magic generators it can lower the trolls 
 health to that of a human and gain an upper hand and with its increased speed would stand a much 
 better chance against the Troll. Another example is summoning a minion. Minions are strong fast 
 and all around dangerous, but can not effect dwarves or even go near them because they will die 
 (All their magic will get sucked away.) So when facing dwarves it would not be wise to invest your 
 money in a almost useless spell.
  
  The graphics are pretty good I really can't complain some levels look better than other but thats 
 true to almost every game. The one thing I found that I didn't like about the graphics were the 
 lack of animations. For example, players just float up latter when next to them... not very next 
 gen. Also, weapons just pop into your hands from off the ground... again not very next gen.
  
  Although their are only 9 levels thats really all one can handle. These levels are so big you 
 could be playing for a while and just find a new room or new path. So being able to memorize and 
 come up with strategies for 9 levels is hard enough right now. Any way I'm sure more levels will 
 be available in the market place eventually.
  
  Lack of campaign was really disappointing to me. Although the necessary training give a good glimpse 
 into the story of Shadowrun. Also the single player is good for people not yet ready or unwilling 
 to deal with the online community, the bots can be made as easy or just about as hard as you can 
 handle.
  
  All in all I would definitely recommend this game to any FPS fan. They will find the change in 
 strategies enjoyable and refreshing from the standard FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warhearted
Rating: 5.4
Date: Aug 4, 2007 12:49 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun's situation is quite simple. Four races, each balanced our by different abilities, strengths, 
 and weaknesses. Several weapons, ranging from automatics to explosives to blades. Technology that 
 can enhance character abilities and magic that can do all kinds of crazy crap. How is this not 
 an instant must-own FPS?
  
  Quite simply, Shadowrun needs more... of everything. More maps, more weapons, more techs, more magic, 
 and some more races woudn't even hurt given the game's situation. Graphics, controls, sound and 
 all other technical aspects are perfectly in order. The game was set up beautifully to become an 
 excellent multiplayer experience, but the developers cut it far too short.
  
  The lack of story wouldn't be a letdown at all if the multiplayer had more meat to it. Most feel 
 that the game is incomplete and not worth $60. As it stands, they're absolutely right. However, 
 Shadowrun lends itself perfectly to Xbox Live's abundance of downloadable content through online 
 updates. What is present is all excellent: the races, techs, weapons, and magic are all great ways 
 to mix up the usual FPS experience, but since there is only one mode of play, players will whisk 
 through virtually every possible combination of the available options within days of purchasing. 
 This leaves the game in desperate need of updated material, which will hopefully come soon, since 
 Shadowrun is a bit thin in the meantime.
  
  Overall, Shadowrun is a cool way to re-introduce the FPS genre, but its strengths were left horribly 
 underproduced. The developing team really let down gamers worldwide by starting to create an amazing 
 shooter and ending with a half-finished fun-for-a-while multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DestinyDeath
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  this game is way differnt then any first person shooter game. this game has magic which turns the 
 multiplater and the game to a blast of fun. the only let down is there is'nt any campaign mode. 
 which sucks. but the bright side of the game is the multiplayer is great and the acievehment are 
 great too. so to me you should buy it. but for the most part definetly rent it. gave it a shot 
 it won't dissapoint you. trust me. this game is way differnt then any first person shooter game. 
 this game has magic which turns the multiplater and the game to a blast of fun. the only let down 
 is there is'nt any campaign mode. which sucks. but the bright side of the game is the multiplayer 
 is great and the acievehment are great too. so to me you should buy it. but for the most part definetly 
 rent it. gave it a shot it won't dissapoint you. trust me. this game is way differnt then any first 
 person shooter game. this game has magic which turns the multiplater and the game to a blast of 
 fun. the only let down is there is'nt any campaign mode. which sucks. but the bright side of the 
 game is the multiplayer is great and the acievehment are great too. so to me you should buy it. 
 but for the most part definetly rent it. gave it a shot it won't dissapoint you. trust me. this 
 game is way differnt then any first person shooter game. this game has magic which turns the multiplater 
 and the game to a blast of fun. the only let down is there is'nt any campaign mode. which sucks. 
 but the bright side of the game is the multiplayer is great and the acievehment are great too. 
 so to me you should buy it. but for the most part definetly rent it. gave it a shot it won't dissapoint 
 you. trust me. this game is way differnt then any first person shooter game. this game has magic 
 which turns the multiplater and the game to a blast of fun. the only let down is there is'nt any 
 campaign mode. which sucks. but the bright side of the game is the multiplayer is great and the 
 acievehment are great too. so to me you should buy it. but for the most part definetly rent it. 
 gave it a shot it won't dissapoint you. trust me. this game is way differnt then any first person 
 shooter game. this game has magic which turns the multiplater and the game to a blast of fun. the 
 only let down is there is'nt any campaign mode. which sucks. but the bright side of the game is 
 the multiplayer is great and the acievehment are great too. so to me you should buy it. but for 
 the most part definetly rent it. gave it a shot it won't dissapoint you. trust me. this game is 
 way differnt then any first person shooter game. this game has magic which turns the multiplater 
 and the game to a blast of fun. the only let down is there is'nt any campaign mode. which sucks. 
 but the bright side of the game is the multiplayer is great and the acievehment are great too. 
 so to me you should buy it. but for the most part definetly rent it. gave it a shot it won't dissapoint 
 you. trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theodin211
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun in the beginning and then I realized that it does not have a real playable storyline. 
 The game has six training missions which lead to bot matches, along with solo play, online private 
 match which all support up to 16 players. The bot matches are pretty fun at first and then it becomes 
 extremely repetitive quick. The graphics are great, It does have a lot of redeeming features such 
 as a load of neat weapons and cool tech upgrades and magic powers. The teleportation feature is 
 cool in combat, and the katana slashing is fulfilling. Rent it first. This would be alot of fun 
 with a group of friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aikao
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun has a great team based theme that breaks new ground in some areas of the multiplayer 
 FPS mold that we usually expect, but it is outdated in too many other areas that matter, and currently 
 lacks content in its original release.
  
  Shadowrun, if you want to learn more about Shadowruns previous games on SegaCD, Sega Genesis, 
 and SNES use GS search engine, keyword: shadowrun.
  
  Read/watch Jeffs review and then come back here
  
  Now Jeff makes a good point there at the 
 very end of his video review, in that Shadowrun is not worth the current price of admission. With 
 Shadowrun being strictly a multiplayer game, the number of maps and play types is well below that 
 of what other comparable games have, and those other games have a full single player campaign. 
 The majority of us are paying full price for half the content. FASA certainly needed to add twice 
 as many maps, and twice as many exciting team based modes to compensate for the high price. To 
 balance this immediately negative aspect of their game, FASA should release five new maps/content/weapon 
 packs for free. Unfortunately, seeing how Microsoft forced Epic to charge players for the Gears 
 of War map pack, when Epic wanted to release them for free, some player may feel that nickel 
 and dime is going too far. That being saidimagine if you could get Shadowrun for half price (which 
 will happen eventually) , or for free (like the GS review crew did) then you have yourself a decent 
 experience that isnt marred by its high monetary value. An expansive story that would have built 
 upon the Shadowrun past is none existent, but the run and gun action is there if you play extended 
 multiplayer matches (or even a decent run of multiple rounds in training solo on Elite difficulty) . 
 The initial training interface is a nice presentation to acclimate new players to the idea of using 
 magic in a multiplayer FRAG fest, and the concepts of the magic uses are nice to play with and 
 find excellent combinations that effectively change the course of a battle. And in the same fashion 
 as Counter Strike, you can retain and purchase new tech gear, weapons, and for Shadowrun, magic. 
 This systems works best for matches that last for more than 30 minutes, as your team and your opponents 
 earn money that is used to purchase said items. The growth of abilities that each player can gather 
 is apparently clear as getting to the objective gets more elaborate and lengthy.
  
  The other negative that plays against Shadowrun, is that it feels just a little bit unfinished 
 in obvious areas of presentation. Sorry if you dont like the jumping back and forth from pros 
 to cons, but stick with me. The character animations you see (if you can get another player to 
 stand still) are detailed down to the jaw grinding and stretchy breathing of battle ready avatars, 
 but in action, the characters look clunky and walk up ladders like so many other FPS shooters before 
 Shadowrun, where the characters arms and legs dont even touch a single rung, but instead continue 
 their regular running animation up a vertical ladder. Please, somebody create a hand/foot over 
 hand/foot animation that shows a quick leap, jump, or vault up a ladder and get rid of this visual 
 eye soar.
  
  The last mention being made for Shadowrun, will be that you have to give the game a once through, 
 and that it makes for a great rental. But dont give up on Shadowrun, even if it is expensive now, 
 wait awhile and buy the game when it is cheaper, and youll get you moneys worth. Otherwise, find 
 a good group of friends that enjoy playing a unique game that can be played with exciting strategy. 
 Try getting a group together and explore the maps for an hour and train together with different 
 magic and weapons, and you will have a great time. Remember, this game is a multiplayer specific 
 experience, and will not satisfy gamers looking for campaign style level by level conquests. If 
 Shadowrun is to survive the September releases of other high profile multiplayer games, FASA will 
 need to push multiple map packs into players hands at a bargain price, or free. Otherwise the 
 experience may not last for a long enough run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cevo700
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  That about sums it up. It's pretty fun, but seems to be average in many obvious ways (animations, 
 graphics, variety) and just missing some obvious things known to be fun the muliplayer FPS world, 
 i. e. vehicles, water, cool/unique weapons, variable avatars etc. The magic/tech element is somewhat 
 innovative (kind of) , and much of the game is well balanced. What does it in for me is that it 
 seriously has the longest load/seach times of any game I've ever played on any system. Lag and 
 dropped connections are very common as well. Level design is also quite bland - basically three/four 
 themes repeated in different layouts. Textures are avergage, everything seems boxy on most levels. 
 Then sometimes I boot up the game and forget those 12 maps are literally the only thing I can do. 
 So I have to agree the $60 kind of stings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarts1563
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  In Shadowrun for the Xbox 360 a whole new type of first person shooter has been made. Very ambitious 
 is what i would call it. I personally like the game though after playing it a couple times the 
 gameplay starts to get repetitive. Once you have experienced all the powers first hand it gets 
 really annoying that you have to buy them at the start of each multiplayer game. I would have rather 
 seen that the more you play and the better you do the more powers in multiplayer you unlock. Like 
 EA's Battlefield 2142 for the PC. As you rank up you get to unlock more powers and technology. 
 This entices new players to do their best and old veterans to keep on going for all of the unlocks. 
 A good overall game, but i think they could have done som much more with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_Scythe69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 25, 2007 1:36 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun was a great game, a little short sighted it seams with some of the graphics e. g. Ladder 
 Climb. But still shadowrun is a great combination of magic powers and guns, with the races just 
 makes a great shooter. The game is balanced for every action is a reaction. People will have fun 
 playing this game, unfortunately it is only a multiplayer game. You will find your self probably 
 getting bored with it after a few hours. After trying all the spells and guns with the races, it 
 gets boring. But overall a great game to past time or just have fun shooting and using spells without 
 a big ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixxongamer
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  wae awe awe awe awe awe awe awe awe awe aw ea wea we awe aw ea we awe wa ea we ae a ea e ae a ea 
 e ae ae a ea e ae ae a ea e ae a ea e ae a ea ea ea e ae ae a ea ea e ae a ea ea ea ea ea e ema 
 wme mawemawnemnamwen mnw men awmen mawne mawne amwen, mawen ,awne ,awne ,amwe ,amwne ,amnwe, manwe 
 ,mnaw, enkajwhekawujhekjawheiuh aiuwheiu hawueh ha iwh iuaehiweh iawheiwheiahwiuyawiueagshjbdaw 
 waekjabad awebhjags d aw tyu fh t hr hg iuo o kmkvn xc vs d a we4 er tr yth t u8i yi y m h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PDzero
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me start of by saying that people with a 360 and don't have Xbox Live can stop reading 
 now! Shadowrun is made for Live. So, with that out of the way, let me start my review.
  
  Shadowrun takes the basics of a tactical shooter like Counter-Strike and combines it with magic 
 and different races. Sounded pretty dull to me at first and I didn't really look forward to Shadowrun 
 that much, but boy was I in for a big surprise!
  
  Everything in this game just works! Even though the game has verry little content and features, 
 everything it does have to offer, in this case, online multiplayer, is the best you've played in 
 a long time.
  
  I could go on and on about the different races and their abilities, or about what types of magic 
 there are, but I won't bore you with that. All you need to know is that this game is in perfect 
 balance. It can be played by any FPS fan. If you don't like it after playing it for awhile you 
 either suck at it or its really not your thing. But Shadowrun must never be considerd standard 
 or even bad, because its not. It's the most inovative FPS i've played in years, and it does everything 
 it tries to do right!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _ethereal_
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  It's fairly common knowledge that Shadowrun has no single player, and isn't an rpg (no one ever 
 promised that) . It's also fairly common knowledge that the graphics aren't mindblowing. And yes, 
 it might be a bit over-priced if you're only looking for achievements and ranks. If on the other 
 hand you like to just mix it up on fun and balanced multiplayer games... then I would say the price 
 is right. At the end of the day, what we have in Shadowrun is a multiplayer experience that is 
 both fresh and familiar... and most importantly fun. I know alot of gamers who say the game is boring 
 to them and they lost interest quickly. I think they're hurting themselves in that respect. When 
 I play Halo or Gears of War... or any other 360 shooter for that matter... all I hear is complaining. 
 It's constant bickering, complaining, insulting, and all manner of immaturity. And yet these are 
 the same people who would play Shadowrun and talk about how bored they are. Maybe it's because 
 in Shadowrun, the focus in on teamwork and fun. Not ranks and Your Mama jokes. Maybe people dislike 
 the game because you can't exploit it as easily as other popular shooters. Shadowrun keeps you 
 on your toes. I've been playing since day 1 of this game's release and every game was a blast. 
 And I actually kind of like having the teams switched around for balance purposes. I like competition... not 
 domination. I get bored when I win game after game. It's really kind of fun to get separated from 
 your party members. Making you fight the people who know how you fight makes things interesting... and 
 *GASP!* fair. Unlike Halo or Gears of War... Shadowrun somehow manages to make you feel as though 
 you're never truly getting 'pwned'. Even when you are. When I play this game, I get the old school 
 feeling of something like Perfect Dark or Goldeneye on N64. It's a far more fun and overall pleasant 
 experience than the majority of online games today that are dominated by the immature and rude 
 punks who give gaming a bad reputation. I know the game is flawed too.... sure it could use more 
 animations and it does need more maps. And I'm sure they will come... but when I rate this game 
 on what is there... it's all solid. It's a balanced and fun game. And to me that is far more important 
 than the way the publishers made use of the Shadowrun license. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKehr
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  This was a great game until FASA/MS broke it with their new update. Now I can't even get into the 
 game because the required update from LIVE doesn't download... and it kicks me right back to the 
 dashboard. Does anyone even bother to test these things BEFORE releasing them? Guess not.
  
  Anyhow, if you can get the update and actually PLAY the game... it's a fantastic online shooter 
 with a lot going for it. I think it rivals GEARS OF WAR as the best online shooter on the 360 to 
 date. The graphics are great, and the gameplay is addictive!
  
  If FASA/MS can get their act together, this is one not to miss. I would have liked a story mode 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron1111
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  It may be only multiplayer but it has a good multiplayer. This game gets so addicting so fast and 
 it has magic powers that let you go through walls and More! And you can even pick your own race! 
 there is Human, elf, Troll, and Dwarf. Go buy this game it's rly good. if you ask me buy this game 
 and you will have a great time. And you can even play with your buddy if he dosint have a xbox 
 360 Because you can play with ppl on the PC from your 360! Now the only downfall is that there 
 can be connection issues.... But it will be fix in no time im shure of that. And more good news..... 
 Orks are coming in a new downloadable package. Don't miss out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl4ck_h4nd
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  -ok i am going to start off with the good and the bad ive played the game for a while ok i know
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  he training tutorial is great it really teaches you about the strengths and weaknesses with each 
 race, like trolls are slow but are strong a big head but lots of health
  
  and dwarves have alot of magic but slow to regain it so they can steal magic from teamates and 
 enemies
  
  and humans are fairly ballanced with good health and bad magic but they are better with tech
 
  
  and elfs fast but low health good magic and can revive health
  
  
  
  magic is really on of the gains 
 to this gain with each spell having a strength and weakness (like the races)
  
  ok here are the spells ok
  
  TREE OF LIFE | the tree of life is a seed that you plant and it 
 is a full tree in a second or two but it regains health up to about 5 health bars but the closer 
 you stand the more it wastes but dwarves can drain it out
  
  RESSURECT | what is sounds like you can bring a dead ally back to life but if you die they will 
 start to bleed out but it takes up some of your magic tokeep them alive
  
  
  
  
 
  |||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||||
 
  
 
    
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoKeR360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:32 am PT
Review:  The xbox 360 has a number of first person shooters. Shadowrun is one of them. So what makes this 
 shooter different than the other ones? Many different things, which make it unique and worth playing. 
 Shadowrun is online only, or you can play against bots. There is NO story mode. There are 4 different 
 races: Human, Dwarf, Elf, and Troll. Each has an advantage. For example, Troll's have high life, 
 and low essence (Mana) . Humans dont lose essence for tech skills. Dwarves drain other players essence. 
 Elves have low life, but can regenerate it.
  
  There are two teams, the lineage and RNA. The lineage fight to preserve the artifact, while the 
 RNA seek to control it.
  
  Graphics -
  Decent graphics. Not gears of war graphics, but you can definitly tell their next gen. Some glitchy 
 parts will make it look cheap, such as bodies stuck in between the floor. It's not a graphical 
 masterpiece, but its not last gen graphics either.
  
  Sound -
  Some of the sound gets kind of corny. When someone gets stabbed from behind, the character will 
 keep saying I'm bleeding out and nothing more. Gun sounds are pretty good, along with other sounds 
 when you use different skills or tech.
  
  Game Modes -
  There are 3 different game modes. Raid, Extraction, and attrition. Raid is where the lineage try 
 to escape with the artifact. Extraction, both teams try to get the artifact and take it to the 
 given area to score. Attrition is team deathmatch. Raid/Extraction - bodies can be destroyed. Attrition 
 - bodies cannot be destroyed.
  
  Gameplay -
  When you join a game, you will choose your Race. Depending on your race, you will get a certain 
 amount of cash. You can then buy: Tech / Magic / Guns / or give it to a team mate. Tech includes: 
 Glider , smartlink , wired reflexes, antimagic generator and a few others. Magic includes: Resurect 
 (rez. killed teammates) , tree of life (heals you) , gust (like the force) , teleport (through walls!) , 
 smoke (temporary invincible) and a few others also. You can hotkey up to 3 skills and carry 2 weapons. 
 Weapons include: SMG, Rifle, pistol, shotgun, sniper rifle, katana, minigun, rocket launcher. If 
 you die, the other team can kill your downed body so you will not be able to get resurected.
  
  Overall: For what this game is (online shooter) it does a great job. Many complain about no 
 storyline, well thats not what this game was made for. Im basing this review totally on what this 
 game has, not what it doesnt have. What this game has totally changes the view of a first person 
 shooter and should definitly be bought if you enjoy first person shooters and online gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaincap
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  shadowrun is very fast and very fun. it has great multiplayer that can be quite addictive. there 
 are many good parts but some not so good as well. the weapon, magic, and tech combo are great. 
 without the transporting and seeing through walls, this game would be boring very quickly. it has 
 decent graphics and good sound quality. the biggest part that this game lacks is a campaign. therefore 
 it should only be about $35. Could use some more maps, custom characters, more game modes too. 
 it seems like every game mode is about the same. he game also seems like it cut some corners by 
 making the characters float up ladders. but overall its a very fun game with great ideas but could 
 use some tweaking that would make it much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama1987
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a multiplayer fps game that has a similar set up to games such as Counter Strike. 
 The player can choose to be a human, elf, dwarf or troll, each race has their own advantages and 
 disadvantages that the player must choose and ultimately alter their playing style and strategy. 
 This game also introduces the concept of magic and technology into the world of fps which i'll 
 talk a bit more about later.
  
  So sounds good right? Well it is. Shadowrun is a fun shooting game that adds a lot to the genre, 
 the downside is one of two things, take your pick:
  
  1) The game is multiplayer only, so if you don't have xbox live you will be playing against bots 
 which sadly are no where near as fun as real opponants. With only 12 maps and three game types 
 this game can't take up too much disc space.
  
  2) It costs &pound;40. &pound;40 for a multiplayer game. It is in my opinion a bit much (see below 
 for how i got it below) There is downloadable content and if they charge for it.... well that's 
 a p*'' take.
  
  So the reason this brings beef to critics is the price of it in comparison to how much it offers. 
 Which in my opinion is a stupid way to review a game, a game should be reviewed and scored as it 
 is: a game, but mention the price to the readers. This is because prices go down, and thats what 
 i reccommend to anyone, if &pound;40 is no problem for you then by all means by it or do what i 
 did and trade in Spiderman 3 and get is for &pound;16 (much nicer price tag) . This game is worth 
 trading a crap game in for, because this is a great fun game.
  
  Now the spells and tech. This is the winning factor in my opinion. Spells are varied and force 
 you (ideaaly but your choice to mix-match) to play specific roles such as an elf healer with the 
 tree of life and ressurrect or an assassin with smoke, katana and wired reflexes. Combine the teleport 
 spell with the glider tech to cover tremendous distances across the large maps. The possibilities 
 are endless with thousands of combinations and startegies.
  
  The graphics are nice, and it is a bit stupid to compare these graphics to other games because 
 this game has to deal with a lot more processor power than gears which just chucks graphics at 
 the processor where this one chucks gameplay at it. But the graphics are good, nice and polished 
 with a good distinct art style which stays consistant throughout the game.
  
  The sound is just as good as any other fps online, with each spell, tech and weapon having its 
 own distinct sound that you can recognise.
  
  When playing this game you can't shake it that this game would be great in clan matches and competitions 
 as it's structure is so competitvly based just like Counter Strike. So get a party of mates and 
 enjoy the good times and their will be plenty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zackaria1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I got it the day after it came out and I still love it. Graphics are great and the whole Buy Menu 
 and Magic and Tech combos was new and very cool. The only thing is some things are left out such 
 as when you climb a ladder you just float up. The only reason I dislike this game is because of 
 the long waiting time for a game but then it's maybe a solid hour in one game if you catch it in 
 the beginning of it. I played it for a week or two and it sat with all my other games for a while 
 and I started playing it again about 3 or 4 days ago and I am still surprised by some of the things. 
 Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak13
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I have been looking for an online shooter for a while, and I got really excited when Shadowrun 
 finally came out. It is a pretty good game, but until the developer adds some more game modes, 
 there isn't much there.
  
  The game itself is really quite fun. Buying weapons and moves is reminiscent of Counter Strike 
 and the Magic and Tech adds for a neat twist on gameplay.
  
  Unfortunately, I felt that the levels were kind of bland, but the graphics were pretty good.
 
  
  Sound is solid.
  
  The things that irk me with Shadowrun, are the lack of game modes and how long the online community 
 will last. Since it is essentially an online only shooter, when the community dies, there isn't 
 much of a game left. I would recommend Shadowrun to anyone looking for a fun online shooter, but 
 I am still worried about the longevity of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCB19
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing the demo of this game I thought this is a good game and I thought 
 that I would most definitely purchase it. I then played the retail version with on of my friends. 
 There was still a lot of strong points about the game but it was most definitely not enough to 
 get me to purchase it. I would most definitely not spend $60 on this game. My first reason is I 
 question the replay value of this game. I think that It would eventually get boring. The second 
 reason is that this game has absolutely no story mode. There are some people like myself that sometimes 
 enjoy playing the single player campaign on the games, instead of playing xbox live all the time. 
 This is why I recommend this game only if you have already played the full version. I give this 
 game a 6.6 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIronMaydenx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a very solid FPS with lots of new options that you haven't seen before in a FPS. First, 
 the addition of new moves such as Gliding, teleporting, summoning demons to help you fight, and 
 resurrecting teammates (to name a few) add a new dynamic twist to the standard run and gun mentality 
 of most FPS. In addition to the magic/tech abilities, there are 4 different races to choose from 
 that are all uniquely different and will appeal to different styles of play. This is great because 
 whether you like to charge in guns blazing, sneak around, or hang back and take a more tactical 
 approach you'll find a race that suits your style of play. Also, Shadowrun incorporates the round 
 based system in which you can purchase weapons/magic/tech with your earnings from each round. This 
 encourages a more strategic, team-based mentality when choosing your upgrades. You'll find more 
 comradre amongst team members in Shadowrun matches than you would on other great console shooters 
 like halo2 or Gears. On the technical side, latency issues and host advantage is definately less 
 apparent than it is in Halo2 or Gears. There are a few downsides to this game:
  One is that there is virtually no single player mode and absolutly no storyline. I reccomend this 
 game for people who are really into online FPS, if you are looking for a game with an engrossing 
 story, linear campagin with cool cutscences, your going to be dissapointed.
  Secondly, there are only nine maps. Personally, I haven't experienced any feelings that I'm playing 
 the same boring maps over and over again. All nine are very well made, balanced, and fun. Unlike 
 some maps on Halo2 or Gears which people seem to love and hate certain maps (I know I  
 Third, the scope of the ability to customize your character is quite overwhelming when mixed with 
 the frantic action. At first and it takes a few hours to really figure out how to utilize your 
 abilities and weapons to your best advantage.
  
  In summation, I'd say play the demo for a first. If you like it, than you'll love the game. If 
 you don't, then it's not for you. But I definately felt this was the best purchase I've made in 
 2007 for xbox360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamahoma22
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  It had a lot of potential, it still can be a fun game to play, for multi-player online. Hopefully 
 this might help spawn more originality in the FPS genre, so the next shooter to come out will build 
 off of some of the creative ideas of Shadow Run. It's a shame to pay 60 bucks for an unfinished 
 product.
  
  This is coming from someone who, is looking for something new to happen in the FPS genre, who isn't 
 really excited about Halo 3 multi-player (A couple of fancy new lighting effects and textures, and 
 some new weapons is not that great, they still have the SAME animations, I'm more curious to see 
 how they are going to finish the story, which hopefully isn't being overlooked) , didn't care for 
 Halo 2 multi-player, but did enjoy Halo 1 multi-player. Counterstrike was ok but jumped in way 
 too late, so everyone who was already playing, knew everything about the game and maps, so it was 
 difficult to jump in and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_Pettican
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is strictly a online multi-player game only and has no single-player through out the 
 game. Unlike most shooters out there you can use magic and tech abilities which add twists on how 
 you will play on the battlefield. The different types of magic ranges from Resurrect which can 
 bring back dead team mates from the dead, Tree of life which is a magical tree that can replenish 
 your health, Strangle where you can place shards of crystals on the ground trapping your enemy 
 and preventing them from moving for a few minutes, Gust which can make you knock your enemy away 
 a few feet, Smoke which turns you into smoke for a few minutes making you invulnerable to damage, 
 Teleport which will give you the ability to teleport through solid objects, Summon where you can 
 summon a minion to aid you in a fight. The different tech abilitiesin the game are as followed, 
 Glider which gives you the ability to fly, Enhanced vision that gives you the ability to see where 
 your enemy's location is, Antimagic generator which is a grenade like device that can absorb magic 
 and destroy magical constructs such as tree of life and summoned minions, Smartlink that improves 
 your accuracy and will prevent you from friendly firing by mistake, Wired relexes that improves 
 your speed and jumping hieght and deflecting bullets with the katana. All these features bring 
 you new ways on how you would play on the battlefield and gives you alot of variety on how each 
 match will be played making each match different and more interesting to play. In Shadowrun there 
 are four different types of races to choose from. You can play as a Human, Elf, Troll and Dwarf 
 and each race have their own different special ability's and advantages giving you more strategies 
 when playing in the battlefield and how you would use your assets with each race.
  
  As soon as the match starts there is a system that gives you the ability to buy weapons, magic 
 and tech abilities. You won't have enough money to buy everything when starting out so to make 
 more money you'll have to get some kills, win some rounds and depending on your match performance 
 you'll be given extra credit. What i find most disappointing about Shadowrun is the lack of maps 
 and game modes. Theres only around nine maps but although there quite big they can get repetitive 
 after awhile and the game modes are all simply the same which consists you of extracting a flag 
 to a specific locations or holding the flag. Theres not really a wide selection of weapons to choose 
 from, you have your Pistol, SMG, Rifle, Shotgun, Katana, Minigun, Sniper rifle, Rocket launcher 
 and grenade.
  
  Overall Shadowrun is a good game and has these great game mechanics that makes how you would normally 
 play shooters a whole lot different than your usual shooter but i don't feel Shadowrun gives you 
 enough content for a full price game but if your a multi-player junkie then its worth picking up 
 but if you feel you need single-player to make a game complete then you should try renting before 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomass60r
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  shadowrun sounds fun and it is but when you have to pay for a &pound;40 online only shooter you 
 start to worry.
  
  shadowrun could have saved itself if it had lots of maps and game modes but it lacks both of them.
 
  
  The 2 game modes are fun but there is no deathmatch or team deathmatch or even a CTF why?
  
 
  the graphics are passable they are nice but your characters look washed out and nothing seems 
 to stand out.
  
  You have lots of magic to use and its fun to use a minion to chase someone and it will make you 
 laugh trust me.
  The other magic is also funny like strangle its all fun to use but at the same time it gets old.
 
  
  I will admit its fun to glide and shoot and its fun to play as a dwarf but at the end of the day 
 shadowrun like jeff gerstmann says lacks variety and that and the price makes this hard to recommend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azupanda
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  So what is this exactly? I wouldn't call it a game because it seems half done. I think I've made 
 a more complete game in RPG Maker on the computer. Shadowrun is just lacking in everything.
  
  Having known there was no single player I thought online would rock my socks. I thought wrong, 
 dead wrong. This game NEEDS a single player. The graphics were terrible and not 360 graphics at 
 all. Now if I bought this game on my regular Xbox, they would be expected. As far as the gameplay 
 itself goes I thought the controls sucked. Awesome Idea mixing magic and guns yeah, but the way 
 everything was all put together was just terrible. I kept hitting the wrong button at times and 
 setting magic to certain buttons was way to confusing for my brain. I'd want to revive someone 
 and I'd throw a grenade instead. Warping through walls was fun yeah, but confusing especially when 
 you warped to your death.
  
  There's nothing positive I can say about this game. I mean it has some good things like the blood 
 effects, running around with the sword, messing with people who actually care about the game, etc. 
 But for $60 it's just not worth it. I'm sorry if you've already bought this game and have it in 
 your collection. You know, there is a website that smashes Shaq Fu. Why not one that smashes Shadowrun?
 
  
  Well, with all that being said, pick this game up at your own risk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 21, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: the game play in shadow run is all online you create a race and have some game modes and 
 there all ok . you can get swords and cast spells its all and good fun but w/ all that its just 
 decent graphics: the graphics look like a late 360 game and realy rushed threw for a next gen game 
 it sucks Sound: gun shots are ok but for god sakes i hate the aferican jungle music now don't get 
 me wron i like all music metal/punk/blue grass clasical rock bestides this music and country it 
 sucks damnit
  
  value all online play not worth the money good rentail peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imrlybord7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. A lot of people fault the game's lack of variety, but I disagree. There are 
 so many ways to configure your character that even the lack of content can't stop each match from 
 feeling different. There are so many cool things you can do by combining magic, tech, and weapons. 
 And the great thing is, this game is very original. Sure the basics are Counter Strike, but the 
 powers make the game stand out from other shooters. But a note to all newcomers, you have to BE 
 A TEAM PLAYER. Unless you are a Troll you should buy resurrect by the third round. And don't try 
 to use the katana too much. It is only good when the person is unaware of your presence or if they 
 have very low health AND you are guaranteed to hit them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insane_metalist
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is a nice shooter game for online. But it's not only shoot and run there are also some 
 magic stuff that you can use and pick a character you want to be. Graphics aren't really great 
 but they're not bad at all. The gameplay is fun run, shoot, use magic, snipe, buy weapons, save 
 teammates. The 6.9 review is a lie this game is much better then it's been rated. The game also 
 includes a sword in it Katana which if you know how to use you can kill with fast. But the main 
 part is the online play which is definetly fun. If you really like shooting games online something 
 like Halo or Counter Strike then you have to buy this game. Whoever likes shooters then is is definetly 
 a must have game for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo5514
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  gamespot kinda sucks at rating games sometimes. this is a really good game once you actually learn 
 how to do everything. who cares if theres no single player. if you bought the game and complain 
 y did you even buy it in the first place. the graphics are ok but the action is nice. when you 
 combine the magic in it transforms into a whole new better game . this game is fun and addicting 
 if you like online fps. if you don't then don't buy it. there is no story mode what so ever its 
 just a bunch of training missions and then you fight bots if you don't have live don't get this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 184him
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The magic, races, and tech work together great. The guns are balanced, overall a great game. A 
 single player would have been amazing using locked tech and magic, but its still a great online 
 game and a great holdover for Halo 3. However, once Halo gets here don't expect many online players. 
 Another hampering thing is the graphics aren't great and some animations (think ladders) are undone, 
 but still if you want online gameplay look no further than this, it is still a great game. But 
 rent first to make sure you like it before you buy, I will probably wait for the price to drop 
 then play with bots, which are very smart, and kick me around alot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: douglasthacker
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  The Shadowrun storyline is a great premise for a game; however, MS has seen fit to only include 
 online multiplayer. FASA and MS could have done so much with this game if only they had included 
 an offline Story mode for the Single player. As big as a flaw as this was for them, I must admit 
 that I would not have bought the game if it was not for the DEMO on Xbox Live. The multiplayer 
 is diverse, tactical and forces you to think outside the box to stay alive (more importantly... to 
 keep your comrades alive) . It is highly addictive. The combination of both the real world weaponry 
 and the magical realm with its unique possibilities and a great game construct. I recommend this 
 game for all who love FPSs (if you have Xbox Live...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freshdrew
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  shadowrun is a really good game the only down fall is NO STORY MOOD but al in all its a good game. it 
 mixes up technology with magic witch equals succes unless you don't like magic but the game is 
 very fun and its easy to get use to theonly thing i really hate about the game is that theres no 
 story mode witch really sucks but the multiplayer is awesome and the graphics look good to and 
 the severs are always with people so its n ever empty. i hink though they should've gave it a better 
 score and i think it deserves more hype because it was the first xbox360 game that allowed you 
 to play with people on windows vista. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedytails24
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Shadowrun has come out, everyone has been dogging on it for No campaign mode and Only 
 Multiplayer. Let me ask all of the Halo players out there when the last time you played campaign 
 mode was anyway? Online multiplayer is the best kind of gameplay available so after you took 3 
 hours and beat the Shadowrun campaign mode just to pick up 30 gamerpoints, you'd be living in online 
 multiplayer for the rest of your time with the game anyways.
  
  Sure there are some graphic flaws in the game (Instead of climbing up ladders, you float up ladders) 
 but you have to wonder why no one has yet to productively combine magic into a quick pace first 
 person shooter. The originality is what everyone's been seeking for since video games started. 
 If you were to formally ask everyone who plays Shadowrun online, I guarantee about 90% of them 
 would rate it a 9/10. What makes the game great is that there's no levels which carry in the angry 
 competitive players that find that video game skills make them cool. Video games are just out there 
 to have fun every once in a while.
  
  The only thing I have against Shadowrun is its heavy pricing. 60 big ones is a lot to ask for a 
 game such as that. I think 30 would be a more respectable amount. Other than that, I've never played 
 such an exciting first person shooter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlwillin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Shadow run is a game you can just jump into and play. Unfortunately you need Live to enjoy it. 
 However, with that draw back comes a simple solution GET LIVE, it (LIVE) is great.
  The online will have you tied up for hours it's that addictive. Familiar comparison is Counter 
 Strike (but with magic) .
  The game is not perfect the servers from my experience have dropped on rooms. But not enough to 
 cause distress.
  The game is simple to play and very fun. If you just want to play a game and not get involved into 
 too much on the sit down then play this game. The achievements are also fairly decent to achieve. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonicstriker
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  Now name one game for a nextgen system that you can play as a Dwarf, Troll, Human, or Elf and can 
 cast magic while blasting people with a rocket launcher. The only flaw to this game is that it 
 is online only. I don't really mind that is online only considering the offline is only like 20 
 hours for a shooter then you just play online the entire time. The online is fun but there are 
 only 3 main maps and a few other cut down versions of the 3 main ones. The game play is fun and 
 once you done with a game you jump right into another one unless the host quits then you search 
 again. Searching is time confusing and frustrating compared to other games but the game play more 
 than easily makes up for it. There are many different weapon types the katana, SMG, Shotgun, Minigun, 
 Rocket launcher, Sniper rifle, Pistol, Rifle. Now there are many spells and techs like smoke makes 
 you untouchable other than by gust another spell there is a healing tree and a resurrect, you can 
 teleport and for the tech stuff you have enhanced reflects which make you move faster and reflect 
 bullets with a katana or just get a speed boost for a second. You can get enhanced vision to see 
 where your enemies are or smartlink that locks onto the enemy there are many other cool gadgets 
 but you will have to check them out yourself go rent it even if you don't buy its well worth a 
 rental fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: damned_beast
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun using gameplay from Counter Strike. But adds in other things such as magic and tech.
 
  
  The gameplay like i said is very similar Counter Strike. The game has a very bad selection of weapons, 
 meaning there is a poor selection. The weapons are the same for both sides. The magic has a great 
 selection, and they all play some important part. The tech is similar to magic. The games magic 
 and tech is used by the bumbers or left trigger, the magic you buy can be assigned to one of those. 
 The game has 2 game types. One is like a capture the flagish thing. But you go to the middle of 
 the map and take the artifact and run it to their base. The other is a team death match. The isnt 
 even that much maps to pick from so, in a few hours of playing you will see all the game has to 
 offer.
  
  The graphics are nice. They look really good. Lighting effects are top notch. Animations for the 
 characters running look great. But for climbing ladders... there isn't even a animation. It kinda 
 makes you wonder if they even finished the game.
  
  The sound is really great. Its probably the highlight of the game. Everything sounds great. But 
 theres no music during loading screens or main menu... so its lacking in places.
  
  Over all this game is great on live. But other than that. Keep it to a rental. If you want to buy 
 it, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccermaster848
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  I don't see why everyone is bashing this game. I rented this game expecting it to be an alright 
 rent but i was completly blow away by the game play and the over all fun of this game.
  
  Graphics: This game look awsome even on my not so nice tv and all the animations are really nice 
 like the teleport, strangle and rez helps this game get its feel while your playing it
  
  Sound: All the gun fire sounds realistic and all the sounds for the powers and tech really fit 
 in to this game nicely along with how diffrent an elf and a troll run
  
  Gameplay: This games online is the best i have ever played and the most addicting. Once u pick 
 up the controller and get the feel for everything you just don't want to stop. It can be fast paced 
 or slow and steady by how you play the game and you can always find people to play with that play 
 your style. The races really play a huge roll in every match because every race can counter another 
 but its not like an elf cant take down a troll so everything is balaneced out. Magic and Tech are 
 probaly the funnest thing in this game because you can combine them in any way you want. My favorite 
 is to get glider, teleport and smartlink with and smg and rifle and i can fight till near death 
 then teleport away through a wall celling or floor to get away.
  
  Value: People are going to be playing all the time till halo 3 come out and people my whine that 
 this game needs a single player but if your have a 360 and dont have live then don't get this game 
 and stop whining about it. The developers did a great job on this game and shouldn't be bashed 
 for not adding in a single player when they worked there butts off to make an amazing online game
 
  
  Overall i give this 9.5 because exsept for some balance issues with powers like trolls hardening 
 its really an amazing game and all with xbox live should get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoman19
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  Alright listen up everyone, to all the people complaining about this game not having a campaign 
 please read this. First of on the box and even at eb games/gamestops they tell you it's an ONLINE 
 GAME only. Nevertheless this game doesn't even need a campaign the multiplayer is so fun, i've 
 been addicted to it for 2 days now. Yes i might get bored, but my point is the multiplayer is so 
 good, I wouldnt even want to waste my time with a campaign. To put it in better terms, if you don't 
 have Xbox live GOLD, then do no purchase the game. Otherwise i think the game is great and i really 
 enjoy it. If you like FAST fps shooters with a mix, this is deffitally for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jathyr
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Don't write this game off because it doesn't crack at the heart of a previous RPG game that very 
 few people know (although I did and liked it) . This is the heart of the Gamespot review and many 
 others. The only rational argument is against leaving out a single-player game. This might have 
 made it fuller but the game is really flushed out as a multi-player game and is better because 
 of it. Here's why:
  
  The game is based around teamwork, very extensive teamwork and how would that be accomplished in 
 a singleplayer mode? AI couldn't do the trick so they had to leave it out -- you can't get the you 
 saved the world storyline ending in this type of game. Remember the story of Unreal? It would be 
 the same here and lame... so skip it.
  
  The only detriment to this game is the price... 60 bucks is a lot to spend on a game without a 
 single-player game, even if I've debunked the idea that it would work in this type of game. Without 
 it, you just jump into a game and start shooting and never get that ahhh feeling that you do with 
 a campaign or storyline. The 60 bucks has to be justified solely on multiplayer killing and that's 
 a hard stretch, even if the game is good.
  
  And here's why it's good -- it brings new things to a shooter. The magic effects add new elements 
 that we haven't seen before. The guns are vastly different and create a real weighted, balanced 
 gameplay. The tactics are simple to understand but very difficult to master, and nearly impossible 
 to do alone. While one person can dominate the old capture the flag or deathmatch style very few 
 people can keep the other team from winning in a game that has so many elements like resurrect, 
 healing points, teleportation, etc... It makes for much more thinking, which should be considered 
 breakthrough in the classic run-and-gun shooter.
  
  Thanks and I'd appreciate your comments.
  
  Jathyr 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiehsan
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  this is somewhat a pretty much a pc game and thats all i have to say its a pc game in a xbx360 
 lolz that should be good but all this game needs is more things to do more guns or S. W. A. T shields 
 or somthing this game is good just  
 needs more stuff bcause if u keep using the same guns over and over well gets pretty boring its 
 great multiplayer pretty much like counter strike source its a good game just what gamespot says 
 lack of variety if there were more stuff it could at least gotton a 8.8 well overall its a good 
 game just not many things to do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taman08
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 18, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun non-classic game. should do a good job of keeping me occupied for waiting for halo 
 3 and halo wars. i dont think it should be $60 so i would wait till price drops to buy it. i think 
 price tag should drop pretty soon. it would be worth more if their was a single player story mode 
 but most people would just play multiplayer anyways. if you dont enter training before you start 
 playing online like i did, then it could take a little while to get to understand the game and 
 learn how to play the game. the thing i like most about this game is the money factor. it rewards 
 players that are actualy helping their team win and not just getting killed off in the first 30 
 seconds. but u can also distribute mone to players that are lacking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair150
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  This game is average. Just flatout average. Singleplayer is disappointing. You train, you fight, 
 and well, you... fight some more. And soon or a later you people without XBOX LIVE will be pretty 
 bored. Fighting BOTS the entire time without much of a storyline feels bland. Now don't get me 
 wrong there is a story... sort of. It's the future, there's a secret organization trying to keep 
 certain artifacts in the world protected, while others called the Lineage (basically rebels) are 
 trying to take the artifact and distribute the artifact for themselves. Very basic storyline. Now 
 this game has dwarves... and elfs... and freakin trolls. There is something I need to know. Where 
 did these abominations hit Planet Earth and I wonder, how in the hell are you suppose to teach 
 a Troll how to use a gun, let alone a minigun (a lot of deaths resulted in these teachings) . But 
 finally they got it right. But Shadowrun, not quite right yet. So, to sum it up, this game is fun 
 and enjoyable... for a couple days. Don't Believe The Hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f3arday1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is one of those games that is revoulutionary but critics put down to. They say that there 
 is not enough maps, that makes plenty of room for downloadable content. Also, leave the whole Computer 
 vs. Console is not working for this game. . This is one of the first games using this feature, 
 and makes the pathway wider for companies like epic or blizzard to use. (besides, vista just came 
 out, so give it a little time. You have choices of difficulty with the bots so that you can warm 
 up for online play. MAKE SURE YOU PLAY FOR A COUPLE OF DAYS WITH JUST BOTS!!! This game gets extremely 
 hard over online. (Trust me, I have spent over 100 hours playing this game, I have waited ever since 
 I saw the first trailer! So I would know what I am talking about.) Shadowrun is a game that could 
 have had a very good storyline. It would have been interesting for it to have used the shadowrun 
 story a bit more. But im not complaining. If you're waiting for games like Halo 3 or The darkness 
 , this should hold you off. (P. S. I'm going to play both those games on the first day they come 
 out.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endresult
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  One of the better multi-play-style games out... the use of magic and technology mixed with a small 
 handful of races and 'class' style builds. Want to be a healer? Maybe a Ninja? How about just a 
 walking tank? This game has it all.. The only thing I would request are more maps and better connectivity. 
 I have played a handful of games where the server crashes, but more often than not.. it runs rather 
 smooth. This game is NOT for everyone, but almost everyone I have discussed this game with, loves 
 it. So rent it, or download the demo, and get it a try... I am willing to bet you'd love it. I 
 have put most of my other games on the shelf and stuck strictly to Shadowrun... I say, its a MUST 
 OWN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Reinventents the Counter-Strike formula with magic, tech, and four fantasy races, Elfs (my 
 fav) , Trolls, dwarfs, and humans (not really fantasy) . The game revolves around the multiplayer 
 component whitch is suberb and really addicting. There are six offline training missions because 
 the game is pretty hard to figure out with out the training. There are two game modes, both are 
 essentally capture the flag but with Relics, One is where one team defends and the other trys to 
 take the relic to safty and the other is both teams fight for the relic. I personally like defending 
 on raid because there are alot of defensive spells like strangle and gust. The only complaint I 
 have is that the PC version runs like complete crap I am a PC gamer but I grabbed the 360 version 
 for stability issues. 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nothing new. Tho they do look really good on a 1080i HDTV. The animations 
 are a bit buggy but that does nothing to the superb gameplay. Some of the spells look really nice, 
 and I noticed motion blur whitch is really cool. 9
  
  Sound: The music is pretty good and the sound of magic, bullets, explosions, people screaming Im 
 bleeding out! are really cool and add a great audio experiance. 10
  
  Value: The value of the game is pretty high because its multiplayer based and tho it only has eight 
 maps they are all really cool and you may find things you didnt notice before. 9
  
  Tilt: I love magic and elfs. I also love guns and action! This game combines them making one of 
 my favorite games of the year. 10
  
  AAA Title GS review was wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peter-Spartan
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Lemme shortly describe this. If you love multi player, love good game play and don't really care 
 about anything else, then this is the game for you. If you don't have live, hate games with bad animation 
 and hate bad graphics then don't think twice about buying this game. I give it a solid 8.0 no more 
 no less. if I didn't have live I would of gave it a 4.0 .I Disagree with Game spot on this one.
 
  
  If you have this game on multiplayer then you would problably agree with me. If you have it only 
 on single player then you would agree with me on the second part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flannelbrick
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 15, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game the day it came out, I was actually expecting something else... You 
 know your standard MP FPS kinda stuff... First game I played online my ass got kicked instantly. 
 After a few more failed attempts I decided to do some training, training by playing against bots, 
 and after a bunch of practice I actually started to become more and more addicted. I got to give 
 props to this game because it actually is something else=) A bunch of online games later I became 
 bored because of the lack of different types of online game choices and decided to take a break. 
 Overall I think this game is really unique but I cannot really think of much more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 4:09 am PT
Review:  im certain the only reason this game is flying off the shelves is due to the lack of decent fps 
 around at the minute.
  
  the games ok, its not very pretty, its not got a huge variety of weapons, its not got a huge amount 
 of maps, the online aspect ( the only way to play unless you wanna bot it) is quite simply you 
 log on andjoin people with similar trueskills.
  no choosing your game, no dropping out and looking for particular good games as its a total chore 
 as all you do is leave and then re log and the get put in a game.
  
  this game to me is extremely dull after a while, and the fact they left out animation for ladder 
 climbing and stuff is inexcusable and shows a lazy streak in the developers
  
  teleport is an interesting twist, as are the gliders but its just not enough to keep me playing 
 anymore.
  
  in desperate need of some dlc and a change to how your assigned to online games are the first things 
 that need addressing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggong
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun for the Xbox 360 is one sweet game. The fact that Gamespot and several members of the 
 community think this game is bad or needs more for it to be even a solid game, made me think less 
 of them. Apparently, they must not of understood the words 'downloadable content' for some reason.
 
  
  Now, I've only played the demo myself and it is kinda getting repetitive playing the same map and 
 game type over and over, but really it makes me just want to buy the game. Being able to teleport 
 through walls to get through a chokepoint in the enemy base then to sneak around, plant a grenade 
 and laugh as the enemy blows up is the greatest thing, yet to then have somebody glide down and 
 rez them all is one pain in the ass until you kill him then destroy his body so they all bleed 
 out is even more awesomer.
  
  Colourful characters, nice weapons, spells, technology and great graphics are what make this game 
 awesome, and it's one of those several games that are the anatomy of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DooshBIGELOW
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 14, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  First off Let's talk about game play. The learning curve might be a problem for some, which also 
 could be a good thing, should keep the annoyin 13 yrs old away and Newbs to the FPS genre. The 
 spells are prolly the most innovative approach to the type of genre I think its totally refreshing 
 now it might be hard to go back to the Linear same ol same ol shoot em ups!!
  
  The Graphics are really not all that bad.. well there not great but who says they arnt meant to 
 be like that, kind of a time splitters look to it. The blood and gore in the game is great totally 
 counter strike there.
  
  The controls are great on par with Halo for sure. The online play.. well the whole thing is online 
 so lets talk AI personally I think the AI in this game is prolly some of the best AI I have ever 
 played with when I play bots offline sometimes I forget im not online.
  
  So all in all this is a really solid game and I think the reviews it got were totally underrated 
 just because there whole job is games blinds them from what a review really should be now Im gonna 
 have trouble beleive what I read on these types of websites from now on.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 1:25 am PT
Review:  shadowrun in my opinion was suppose to be the next great game but just didn't pull through. like 
 Jeff said..... counter strike with magic.
  
  gameplay - this is really and ONLINE game nothing else. they have a tutorial where they teach you 
 how to play the game but besides that online is the way to go. bots (ai players) just dont do 
 it. choose from 4 different races each with there own special abilities pros and cons to them. 
 adjust with magic and tech abilities to play a capture the flag type of game.
  
  graphics - doesnt look that great IMO. very standard nothing crisp. far from gears of war.
  
 
  achievements - i couldn't get a lot of the achievements even though i unlocked them. must be a 
 glitch, but if you play the game enough you should be good to get a few points.
  
  overall - if your into meeting other people and only want to play against other people this is 
 your game. no story mode so if you don't have Xbox live I would not recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I know that this game could have been better if the company took more time on it, but it's not 
 bad really it's quite fun. It feels like counterstrike, but with a new twist of magic and different 
 races. The Humans are alright, the Elves are cool, but they die to quick, trolls are awsome and 
 heavily armored, dwarves are really cool because they suck magic and take more headshots than others. 
 The weapons are great and are really unique and the Katana has to be the best, the magic can be 
 tough to use, but you get used to it, the Tech is great, but some are pointless. There should have 
 been a campain to play, but the multiplayer makes up for it. The only problem with multiplayer 
 is that you can't find a server yourself it chooses for you and the players are all jerks thinking 
 that they are pros and they really fail. The bots are a good way to bring your skill up for multiplayer 
 and give you good battle strats. The stages are really nice and the graphics well could use a tune 
 up because when you clime a ladder it shows that it could use some work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mreaper
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  this game is alright. But you should do the training missions if not just the first two. With out 
 a campaign for some people it might be pretty boring. I find the magic and tech part pretty sweet. 
 They could have added some better attacking magic like lightning or fire because it doesnt seem 
 like magic is a reallly pwoerful force that has to be controlled. Diversity between weapons for 
 the different teams could have been neat. THE SHOTGUN should be able to kill people one foot away 
 from you with one shot but instead it takes two at least. The gamepaly is fun for the better half. 
 At some points it gets boring like if your hunting down the last guy in a round based game and 
 he has smoke so you can't kill him cause hes running like a panzy. But that rarely happens. For 
 the most part of the game it is pretty fast paste. You should be a patient peson because if you 
 die in the begining and your bod is gone then your gona wait for a while. Also it takes for ever 
 to get into a party. The graphics look like CS but just polished up. You should rent it first incase 
 you dont want to buy a 60 dollar game with no campaign. At the end of the day Shadowrun on its 
 own is a fun game that is very satisfing when you shank someone with a katana or kill a glider 
 with a minigun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaGoyaMan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  so far they have southpaw and default under character controls which is dumb. Are they gonna add 
 legacy and inverted co? do any of you guys know if they are going to add these controls? I mean 
 what he hell is the point of me buying the game if I can barely use the controls, all FPS have 
 4 separate character controls; default (mostly everyone uses them) , Legacy (this is the one I use 
 and is not listed in the game and is used by people who are used to N64 and old FPS) , Southpaw 
 (No clue who uses these) and Boxer (don't know who uses these) . So so far this game if for only 
 people who can control the game with default and Sauthpaw controls and totally excluded those who 
 use the legacy and Boxer controls. the game is really fun but I know a lot of people who are disappointed 
 because they didn't implement legacy controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  For: Well balanced classes, weapons, and skills; fun CTF and deathmatch; Excellent tutorial and 
 bots
  Against: No achievements in bot matches; no campaign; limited maps and game modes; poor models 
 and animations
  
  Achievements: Hard - will require endless online play
  
  Shadowrun is a fun, well balanced, team based FPS shooter that suffers from flaws in scope and 
 production quality.
  
  Shadowrun is a team based shooter that features a number of different character classes, weapons 
 and skills - technologies and magic. Shadowrun is a focused online multiplayer game that does not 
 feature a campaign or story of any kind for solo play, but offers offline bot matches instead. 
 The Shadowrun RPG franchise is not particularly evident in the game, other than the nod to magic 
 and the South American setting. With its multiplayer focus it is important that the game does not 
 suffer from the balance issues that a lot of FPS games suffer from. Thankfully, Shadowrun proves 
 to be one of the most finely balanced games yet to grace the X360. All of the weapons, classes, 
 and skills are evenly balanced with classic rock-paper-scissors rules: for instance, damage can 
 be avoided with the smoke spell -which puts you in a gaseous state- whilst a gust spell is weak 
 against most foes but instantly kills someone who is in smoke . Virtually all skills, weapons and 
 classes are carefully organised so that you never feel one race, spell or tech is superior to another. 
 The net result is fun, fair and exciting gameplay regardless of the class, weapon, of skills that 
 you use.
  
  I have complained previously about weak multiplayer implementations that almost prevent the casual 
 gamer from playing on XBL. Shadowrun features an excellent tutorial that explains all the classes 
 and skills, whilst bot matches (with a decent AI) are provided to help learn the levels.
  
  Shadowrun is not without its problems. The game feels rushed and unpolished. There are no character 
 skins customisations so everyone looks the same, whilst the character animations are poor or non-existent: 
 watching a character float up a ladder is both hilarious and pathetic. Shadowrun also features 
 only two gameplay variants: CTF and Deathmatch. The range and variety of maps is also quite small.
 
  
  Without doubt, Shadowrun is a lot of fun, especially if you can play with a group of friends, and 
 the well balanced gameplay is to be applauded. However, the unfinished feel and some examples of 
 poor production quality, really hurt the enjoyment of the game. Shadowrun is a good budget/bargain 
 buy but remember it will require a few friends to purchase the game to get the maximum enjoyment 
 out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jahosaphet0
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I'll be completely honest. I had no idea what Shadowrun (the franchise) was before this game, and 
 I still have no clue.
  
  That being said, I believe this is an incredible stand-alone game that combines many different 
 gaming ideas and integrates them seamlessly.
  
  The inclusion of magic and how to use it alone makes this game very original. Gameplay is hectic 
 and the player must constantly improvise given every situation. For example, you're given a relatively 
 often occurence: one guy tries to kill the other. The more adept with the aim will wind his opponent 
 down to minimal health. The opponent could either seek to teleport through the floor, hide, then 
 spawn a Tree of Life to regenerate his health, or turn into a puff of smoke and run away, or he 
 could simply die, only to be resurrected a moment later.
  
  I believe some more gametype variety would be nice, but what we are given is worth it.
  
  Simply 
 put, this game gives you a TON of options. I loved it, and I'll definitely put my fair share of 
 hours into it. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Magic vs. tech gameplay is unique, four different races each with different special abilities, 
 cross-platform play, well thought out achievements, nice visuals, good party system.
  
  The Bad: More spells/tech powers would be nice, lacks game modes, no stat tracking, no single player 
 campaign, not many Vista players.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The rules of combat have changed. That is what the advertisements for Shadowrun claim. In some 
 ways, Shadowrun is a revolutionary shooter. In others, it's just a run of the mill game with a 
 solid online mode. Shadowrun isn't as good as it could have been, but it's unique enough to be 
 an absolute blast online. Unfortunately for those of you non-Xbox Live subscribers, Shadowrun requires 
 a gold subscription, so you must have that to play the game. There is no single player component, 
 although you can play against bots if you really want to play alone. There are a total of six tutorials, 
 all of which go over the various races, magic and tech powers and basic rules of combat. Each tutorial 
 has a 10 point achievement after it for completing it, so you'll get 60 gamerscore just for completing 
 the tutorials. In Shadowrun, you can play as two rival factions: RNA and Lineage. The RNA are trying 
 to restore peace to Zantos, Brazil, while the Lineage are a gang bent on destroying the RNA. The 
 gameplay focuses on using magic and tech powers to destroy your enemies. The magic powers include 
 teleportation, summoning a minion to do your bidding and resurrecting your teamates. This becomes 
 very important, because you don't respawn, so make sure your teamates can rez you before charging 
 into battle. The tech powers include a glider, wired reflexes, which make you super agile, and 
 smartlink, which makes you more accurate and eliminates the fear of friendly fire. By picking and 
 choosing which powers you use, you can work with your team to come up with the best stratagy for 
 eliminating the opposing team.
  
  Besides the two teams, there are also four different races you can select: human, dwarf, elf and 
 troll. Humans are well ballenced, and get a cash bonus at the begining of each round. Elfs are 
 fast and automatically heal themselves. Dwarfs are small, have lots of essence (magic) and can 
 drain essence from opponents and teamates. Trolls have lots of health and take a while to kill. 
 They are basically the tanks of each team. At the begining of each round, you must purchase your 
 weapons and/or magic and tech powers. Your powers will remain until the end of the game, while 
 your weapons won't if you are killed. You are armed with the basic FPS style weapons such as a 
 shotgun and rocket launcher, but the addition of a katana (with a third person view no less) is 
 a great change from the usual weapons. There is also an artifact, which is the center of most of 
 the gametypes. One mode is basically capture the flag, but with the artifact. One mode has the 
 Lineage trying to capture and score the artifact, while the RNA defends, and the final mode is 
 basic deathmatch, but the team holding the artifact will win in case of a tie.
  
  The achievements of Shadowrun are well spaced out and may take some time to unlock them all. Some 
 of the secret achievements are great, including one that involves you doing something all Halo 
 2 gamers have dealt with: teabagging . There are a bunch that promote cross platform play between 
 Xbox 360 and Windows Vista, but there aren't nearly as many Vista players as there are 360 ones. 
 There are a few downsides to Shadowrun. One is that the game only has three modes, and everything 
 is matchmade using true skill, which you can't track. There are no stat tracking features at all. 
 The lack of a campaign does limit the game's appeal, but gamers looking for another great online 
 shooter won't be disappointed. The action is fast and frantic, and feels a lot like Counter-Strike. 
 The addition of powers is unique and adds some twists to the gameplay. Overall, Shadowrun is a 
 must for all online shooter fans on either Xbox 360 or Windows Vista. It might not be as good as 
 some of the other shooters out there, but the online modes have a lot of staying power.
  
  Gameplay: Counter-Strike with magic and technology. It plays excellent online.
  
  Graphics: 
 It has a nice artistic style and it is pleasing to the eyes.
  
  Sound: The effects are very good and the music is also well done.
  
  Value: It may seem a bit 
 pricey for an online only game, but you can easily get over 100 hours out of this game or more!
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Dwarf+Mini Gun= Ownage! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigDreams
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of FPS games and have been playing them since the original DOOM. In my opinion 
 ShadowRun is the most innovative FPS I have ever played.
  
  ShadowRun allows for totally different styles of play, and what is amazing is how well balanced 
 they are. Waifish elves and huge armored trolls are evenly matched - even if one player is on a 
 360 and one player is on a PC.
  
  I keep hearing the same thing while playing online, I have more fun playing this than I do playing 
 Gears . I agree whole-heartedly, this is my favorite game on any console or computer. I fail to 
 understand why reviewers are picking at stupid things like the lack of animation on ladder climbing 
 when the game does so many other things that no other FPS has even come close to. Sure, it lacks 
 a little polish here and there - but what it lacks in minute details it makes up for in gameplay. 
 If you like FPS games, you have to give ShadowRun a try, especially if you lean more towards team 
 based play than just free-for-all death match games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Although it's practically impossible to be completely unbiased to a new release in this age of 
 instant information, the chances are you've probably heard the Shadowrun name long before setting 
 eyes on this review, and it'll be in one of two ways. Firstly you may have heard reference to, 
 or even played, the aeons-old SNES title developed by FASA; based on the long running traditional 
 RPG series of the same ilk. If this is the case, it really bares no relevance to the game presented 
 here, and it'll probably be wise to drop any preconceptions about the series before sampling any 
 of the action on offer. This is an FPS you see, and a controversial one at that.
  
  The second manner in which you may have heard of Shadowrun comes from the long-running and rather 
 troubled development cycle of the game, and the specific decision to reduce a complex RPG into 
 a CounterStrike clone for next-generation consoles and PC. Depending on who you ask, the development 
 of the title may or may not have led to the wholesale redundancies at the studio responsible in 
 the last few weeks; hardly an auspicious manner to introduce a newly-envisioned franchise if it 
 turns out to be correct.
  
  Shadowrun then, is a shooter. More specifically, it's an online-focussed FPS which bares more than 
 a striking resemblance to everyone's favourite Half-Life mod. Shorn of any need for a narrative, 
 there is a stab at a tiny amount of back-story in the loading screens leading up to the tutorial 
 and main levels, but if you're hankering for an epic storyline or any kind of notable atmosphere 
 you definitely need to look elsewhere. On the same note, if you don't have an Xbox Live connection, 
 there really is absolutely no point in picking this up whatsoever.
  
  Single-player is limited to both matches on any of the nine included maps, and with a paltry three 
 different game types on offer (single and multi-flag games, and a straight deathmatch option) , 
 it's difficult to see where the full retail price can be justified.
  
  The focus then is firmly on the multi-player elements, and the few differentiating factors that 
 make Shadowrun stand out from the pack. Somewhat predictably, the one vague success story to come 
 out of this release can be attributed to the RPG-like magic system, and the effect this has on 
 the play dynamics. You can choose up to three special skills and magic effects to assign to your 
 controller at any time, purchased at the start of the round along with your chosen weaponry. The 
 powers themselves are varied and interesting, all with a decent balance which never seems to lend 
 one combination of offensive or defensive skills to be superior to another. Attacking players will 
 want to choose from abilities such as the passive aiming upgrade 'SmartLink', and magical spells 
 such as 'glider' and 'teleport', whilst defensive players can get stuck in with the rather self-explanatory 
 'resurrect' or 'tree of life', amongst several others.
  
  In practice, this lends each match a different feel to the last, and when everything comes together 
 it can be a very satisfying experience. Teleporting upwards through a building to take out a bunch 
 of enemies before gliding over to the opposite rooftop to resurrect a fallen comrade is a fairly 
 unique proposition amongst first person shooters, and the combination of different skills can be 
 daunting, yet hypnotic in execution when timed correctly.
  
  Choosing your initial skill set can also depend on which character class you wish to take into 
 battle. There are a choice of four different races here, (elves, humans, trolls or dwarves) , each 
 with specific attributes to fit in to your preferred style of play. Trolls are the effective tank-class, 
 Dwarves are hardy and can suck mana directly from opponents, elves are nimble and quick, whilst 
 humans are a mixture of each. Each race also has it's own specialised abilities regarding the regeneration 
 of mana, and you may find yourself picking a favourite early on. (for the record, the elves are 
 clearly the way to go on this front)
  
  Wrapped around a Live! Service that links PC and Xbox 360 players together for the first time (incorporating 
 a party system similar to that of Halo or Perfect Dark) , all of the above sounds like it should 
 make for an excellent online shooter. The problem with ShadowRun isn't particularly one of concept 
 then, but one of execution and delivery.
  
  The problem with the execution is that Shadowrun simply doesn't feel finished on any level. Graphically, 
 the engine is accomplished but with some alarming dips in quality throughout each map and a host 
 of missing animations that lead to some oddly transitioned movements. Whilst the skills and magic 
 abilities in and of themselves are well executed, basic combat just doesn't feel correct, with 
 little power or weight sensation to any of the weaponry (the shotgun in particular is terrible) . 
 Part of that could be to do with the lacklustre sound effects, but simply running around on foot 
 and firing at your enemies fails to satisfy to any decent degree, which is a pretty big issue for 
 something that boils down to become a traditional shooter at heart.
  
  Also, if ever there was a game to test digital distribution over the Xbox Live network, this was 
 it; but for reasons unknown Microsoft doesn't seem keen to go down that route just yet. Paying 
 full price for what amounts to a few maps and a couple of game-modes to play online is particularly 
 galling, and hopefully the impending release of WarHawk on the Playstation Network will kick them 
 into action if it proves a success. Whilst I can appreciate that Microsoft has to support a version 
 of its console that doesn't contain a hard drive, it shouldn't detract from the fact that there 
 are far more suitable distribution methods for this type of small game, and that the majority of 
 owners will currently have the premium system to utilise such an initiative.
  
  Distribution issues aside, Shadowrun is a solidly average shooter that may appeal to hardcore fans 
 looking for something a little bit different. Whilst it may have been a daring move to shift the 
 focus away from the origins of the series, the quality of the final product proves that to be a 
 decision that needed a lot more consideration. Alienating your existing user base and creating 
 little in the way of new followers is something that any license can do without, particularly one 
 held in high esteem amongst gamers old enough to remember the original. Note: This text was originally 
 written by myself and published over at strategyinformer. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTheRaVenEffect
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  There are many things about Shadowrun that make it a pretty fun game. For example: several magic 
 spells at your disposal, decent variety of weapons, several unique characters to choose from, and 
 plenty of neat little tricks that you can do during the game. You can do things like gliding, turn 
 invisible, see through walls, enhance the targeting system, and many more. However, after experimenting 
 with these tricks for a while, the game loses its excitement and begins to get repetitive. The 
 first few games on Xbox Live are pretty fun, but that tends to get a little boring after a while 
 aswell. The fact that there is no single player mode really hurts this game in my opinion. The 
 whole game is based on multiplayer which gets extremely old after a while. This game could have 
 been so much more if the makers were willing to put more time into it and made more game modes 
 to choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameogameo
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  There aren't many reviews that Gamespot have made that I agree with, but I think they're exactly 
 right with their 6.9. Personally I diliked the game from playing the first online game, for a start 
 there is just no variety in the game, there's the same 'capture the artifact' game online or the 
 6 training missions which are pretty pointless anyway. The graphics are dodgy, (climb a ladder 
 and you'll see what I mean) . Repetitive gameplay and adequate sound Shadowrun seems to have been 
 rushed, it represents half a game. Given another year in development then this could have been 
 realtively decent, but not so.
  
  If you're thinking of buying Shadowrun, DON'T!!!! It won't last you more than a day. If anyone 
 wants to complain, JUST BRING IT!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghrecon02
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is one of the best first person shooters on the Xbox360. Is itreally worth the price? 
 That is the $60 dollar question. With no singleplayer it is definately not worth the trip to the 
 store ifyou don't haveLIVE. That said, even though u have no idea what is going onin the seeminglygreat 
 story, this game is really deep. That is to say that, there is almost no explaination of what is 
 actually going on. Yet the multiplayer is really addictive. Why is the magic back? With all of 
 the spells and races availabe, the possibilties andstratagies are enless. Pros: Excellent achievements, 
 with solid multiplayer
  
  Cons: Less than awesome ladder animation and no singleplayer for $60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diva-of-Destiny
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The good: Unique magic and abilities that make the game refreshingly different from any other online 
 multiplayer out there. Magic and abilities are fun and exciting to use.
  
  The bad: No single player story mode, no solo deathmatch mode for multiplayer, only 3 multiplayer 
 gameplay modes, full price.
  
  On paper, this game is not appealing, with its full price tag, online multiplayer only, team modes 
 only, only 3 modes of gameplay. It took trying the demo on Xbox Live Marketplace before this game 
 was on my shopping list radar, and once I tried the demo, I was immediately sold. This is unlike 
 any other multiplayer game on the market, with the many magic abilities and special skills you 
 can purchase to use in combat, including such thrilling abilities as summoning a minion to fight 
 for you (you can even stick him on the last person who killed you. He will stalk that person until 
 he or the minion are dead. SWEET REVENGE!) . Glide and teleport are a rush and well implemented 
 in the game. The maps are pretty good, and while the controls will take a tutorial to learn they 
 are not frusterating once you get the hang of them.
  
  Obviously the lack of a single player storyline (single player offline bot battles are available) 
 and the lack of a solo deathmatch mode online are huge drawbacks, however, not as much as you'd 
 think, but what there is here is very good. I wouldn't recommend this to someone with a limited 
 game budget who doesn't have some of the other great games out that offer more gameplay options, 
 and I definitely don't recommend it to anyone who hates online multiplayer or only has a Silver 
 Live account. But if you're a game collector like I am this game will provide a fun break from 
 other games, and better online multiplayer than almost all of the other games you can play on Live 
 (the only game I like better for online multiplayer is Call of Juarez) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PacoLocoX
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok the above is not all the game has to offer but it what i love about it. The game as you should 
 know by know is Counter-strike with a little Oblivion aka fps with magic. There are 3 different 
 modes but they all boil down to kill everyone on the other team, as this will win you every game 
 type. I have never played the first Shadowrun so i am not angered by misuse of the license. My 
 only gripes are no single player which doesn't make sense with a game with so much cool single 
 player potential. Secondly they could have made use of the D-pad to access spells a little easier 
 since only 3 spells can be macroed at once. But over all if multiplayer fast paced shooters are 
 your thing so is this game. The teleport spell rules and gliders seem so simple its a surprise 
 it hasn't been in a game already.
  
  In closing the Value is reduced due to lack of single player. The gameplay is great but not perfect 
 and the graphics are good but not great. Overall i give it about an 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matty_sen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  REALLEY DONT GET SHADOWRUN IF YOU DONT HAVE XBOX LIVE
  
  Shadowrun has an amazing gameplay which you should not miss with magic and hi-tech gadgets in first 
 person shooter.
  I mean there's that guy who your just about to kill then he teleports after the next three walls 
 while his friend comes hang-gliding out of the sky but you turn into smoke and run and your team 
 mate gets him in the back with a katana!!!!! OK you've pretty much got it!!
  
  base line
  
  good
  amazing gameplay, six long tutorials
  ,enough magic and weapons will keep you going 
 for months,
  four races
  
  bad
  only 8-maps sort of, no camipian offline or online, match making is really slow and bad, can always 
 have more maps, weapons tech and magic
  
  Want a good multiplayer ONLY multiplayer and NO single player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkANDWander
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing like the old shadowrun, but I never played the old one any way so it doesn't 
 bother me any! If you like Halo 2's Multiplayer than you will love this because it x5 better and 
 it adds a ton of new twists to the FPS genre. It is a lot like Counterstrike (or so I hear from 
 friends. I've never played that game...) because of the money system. Most races, which include 
 humans, elfs, trolls, and dwarfs, will start with only two-thousand dollars at the begining of 
 the match to spend on either weapons, magic, or hi-tech scifi gear. As the game goes on you will 
 earn more money by doing positive thing like killing the enemy scoring with the flag (AKA the artifact) 
 and you will ose money for friendly fire and team killing. At the beginging of each round you will 
 have a short time to buy to your hearts content. Or until you run out of cash. Any way moving on 
 to the gameplay. There are two teams in Shadowrun. The lineage which consists of a bunch of Brazilian 
 Rebels. And the RNA Corp. which consists of the government's agents. In one game type called raid 
 the RNA will defend the flag and hunt down the lineage and the lineage will try to grab the flag 
 and deliver it to a specific point on the map. There is another game type calle extraction in which 
 both teams will try to deliver the flag and defend the other teams delivery point. Of course there 
 is the simple minded killing game type called Atrition. You do have the options of playing with 
 bots by your self mainly for training perposes. The multiplayer matches can Vary from 4v4 to 6v6 
 to 8v8. If you are still playing Halo2 Mutiplayer and you love it then get this game it is worth 
 it if you love FPS Multi Player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calzoony
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Well this new online multiplayer shooter is a hit with younger and older ages. This is very similar 
 to the timely classic counterstrike but with some distinct differences, you are a elf, dwarf, troll 
 or a plain and simple human. The depth of spells and technology to buy is too be admired and is 
 well thoughtout, all situations are covered by these spells eg containment, attack, stealth accuracy 
 and more. The only bad thing is that the game has NO storyline which i personally found a major 
 letdown. Each character has a special ability eg, healing, hardening and speed. There is 3 game 
 types which offer you a small mix, but there are a number of maps which can get frustrating at 
 times but they are excellent. This is such a copy of counterstrike but more mythical and futuristic, 
 i would advise you to rent or borrow it first before buying it as it can get boring after overplaying 
 which you will do as it is addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfireace21
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  the game can be very addicting at times but its only because of the new mix to the first person 
 category. although there is a very neglected storyline you get past that by the good gameplay. 
 multiplayer is the only way to go with the game because the single player bot matches are just 
 a joke. it would have been nice to see a few more weapons and magics and techs, but most of all 
 this game needs more maps since it is primarily a multiplayer game. i would only rent the game 
 and then only buy it then on personal preferences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheOnlyValius
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  Everyone's complaining about the single player. Last I checked I spent twenty hours on the last 
 single player game I played (Gears) and then went online with it every single night subsequent. 
 SO on to multiplayer. Sure this game only has three game modes and two are basically the same, 
 but there will probably be more. Lets look at some other recent blockbuster. Gears of War one game 
 mode thats played with a little variety. RSV only two or three different gamemodes that are played 
 without any real variety. So shadow to different game modes that are played. Instead of played 
 one model per side you chose you can choose between four different models on each side. Each race 
 plays and behaves differently that other and you can specialize or generalize a different way every 
 time you play the game. Elves ,choose to go katana wielding ninja, or speed healer, or run and 
 gun. Dwarves, choose super healer, or defender, or anti-magic assault. Troll , choose tank ,or 
 samurai, or living wall. Human, well you get the point. With this much customization and more to 
 come this game offers everything you want from a multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scotty0123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  Yeah this games a weird one but still non the less its amazing... For the 360 comes the latest 
 shooter Shadowrun where you run and gun your way through and online only Deatmatch shooter.
  THe whole game revolves around magic and tech, these can be brought by the player when they have 
 done something like won a round or killed a player. The magic is great with such spells as Ressurect, 
 or tree of life (Healing) and the tech ranges from Gliders and Enhanced vision. There are plenty 
 of weapons in the game from mini-guns and the famous samurai sword, the katana. The game itself 
 runs around the fact of Grabbing an Artifact sort of like a flag and taking it to a point, or just 
 shooting the hell outa each other. Its a very good game but the only single player modes are tutorials 
 and bot only matches. If you love online shooters... GET THIS GAME, DO NOT LISTEN TO THE REVIEWS.
 
  Im going to be frank... People who hate this game... are the ones at the end of a game complaining 
 about their lack of kills or lack of money to buy weapons. Oh and BTW, there are 4 races to pick 
 from and each are very VERY different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_monkey_god
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Well after buying shadowrun I had a change of mind. Do I really want another first person shooter 
 with Halo3 on the way. Then I thought O what the hell. It cant be that bad. O was I wrong. The 
 game starts out great at first you go through the basic steps of training. ( THIS IS A MUST !!! 
 ) The magic is fun the weapons are ordinary and the tech is neat. But all it has is multi-player! 
 Fine I said and threw them a bone. As long as the AI is not stupid. It was all going great. Then 
 bam I switch sides to find out what its like to capture the flag. Then I get killed because I am 
 the only one going for the flag. WTF where are my guys! I switch camera angles only to find half 
 my team running in circles right where they spawned. For the love of god. And this is where shadowrun 
 fails. Not to mention the bad graphics. If you put out a half ass game at least use good graphics 
 and a some what smart AI. Hears hoping they fix all this with a x-box live update. And add more 
 to it than just 9 maps. HHHHhhhh ...... O well hears hoping Bioshock and Halo 3 fills the missing 
 first person shooter gap in my heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnfrusciantex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Well well well, this game................. everyone who I talked with said this game was a bust. 
 Sounded like counter strike, and I hate counter strike. But I decided to download the demo, and 
 check it out. I played the training levels, and straight after the 3rd one, I went to my local 
 blockbuster (heaven on earth) and they had the game, so I rented it right away.
  
  Pros: Graphics are stunning, and sharp. Great gadgets, and magic powers. You can play with PC based 
 players. (still awsome, and amazing.) You can teleport through nearly anything. You can teleport 
 through walls. Did I mention you can teleport through virtually anything??????????
  
  Cons: Lack of variety in weapons, and characters/races. Lacking on the maps, gameplay variety.
 
  
  Overall: Although I did not buy the game, (money issues as always) I recommend buying this to anyone. 
 This game still stuns me. TRUELY A DIAMOND IN THE ROUGH. That is why I give this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rfasanel
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 10, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is nothing special. That's all I honestly can come up with. The graphics are ok - the 
 Havok engine will always get you decent graphics. Online play is ok as well - if you're into that 
 type of game. In the end, nothing about the game blew me away. Technology meets magic - big deal. 
 The storyline is underdeveloped. I'd still rather play GoW or even Castlevania. XBOX and PC users 
 playing together is also kinda cool - I guess. When all is said and done, I guess I recommend that 
 you save your money! There are many new games on their way. Anyway - the above is just one mans 
 opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  We have all seen somthing about microsofts Shadowrun, how every one said this game was going to 
 rock but the review I have seen are bad for it givin it 6 to 7.5, but I am here to give it a good 
 one. Shadowrun is a FPS with some twists to the game. With the power of doing thing without beening 
 seen. It comes to be a super sweet online shooter. With no single player story line all there is 
 to do is shoot people online. The Gameplay is nice and easy but some what bad, I don't know what 
 you people think, but I am not a big fan of it. The Graphics are not bad and are nice to look at 
 on a bit LCD tv. The sound is a nice thing on this game and well I think is the best thing on this 
 game. The Value is bad, 50$$$$$$$$ thats alot of money I could use on somthing better. Mabe if 
 it was 30$ it would be better. Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sproke
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  I pop the disc out of the box, put it in my 360, and patiently await the awesomeness that this 
 game should be. I immediately look for the campaign, but only find the Start here button. There 
 are six training chapters within. I exit out to the main menu once again? Where is the campaign? 
 I ask myself, Maybe it's using smoke. 
  
  The lack of a single player experience is a huge blow to the game's playability as a whole, but 
 it doesn't utterly destroy it. The training chapters DO do a good job of teaching you the ropes, 
 giving you the basic knowledge of the technology, magic, weapons, and races within the game.
  
  The way that you obtain weapons, technology, and magic powers is through a points and money 
 system. Humans start out with $2500, where the other races start out with only a mere $2000. As 
 you play the game, killing and even reviving people, you gain money bonuses (points) , which give 
 you more money to buy more things.
  
  But enough about the single player. Let's talk about what the game is about, and what some say 
 the game was made for - The intense, enjoyable, and long-lasting multiplayer mode. The gameplay 
 modes are not very diverse, but they are still fun. You're never really outmatched due to a TruSkill 
 system, which matches you up with people that are on the same level of play that you are.
  
  The races are well balances, each with a different strength and corresponding weakness. It's 
 fun, but IF YOU DON'T HAVE AN INTERNET CONNECTION DON'T BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  After waiting since the mere mention of this game, we have been waiting for this title to be released. 
 And then it got a 6.9 GS Review. Shaken by the low rating, and the comments made about it, i figured 
 i will just rent and play a few days. Well, i must say that i was surprized, in both a good and 
 a bad way. The game now incorperates magic into the FPS, which is fantastic!!! you can block entrances 
 way, abosorb players essense, and heal/rez. which can keep a game going for a good period of time 
 if playing with skilled players. However, when playing online, there are alot of players that are 
 willing to give up the rez ability to improve thier attack, leaving some of the players to mainly 
 be healers. Lucky for me, i dont mind hanging back and heal/rezing. The only bones i have to pick 
 are, that i get a TimeSplitters sort of graphics feel to it. The Races seems fairly balanced, but 
 i got owned as Dwarf, as opposed to an Elf... but im sure thats from just not using the race often 
 enough. I would not reccomend buying this game outright without trying it, cause this seems like 
 a LOVE it or HATE it sort of game. There are only a few maps, and 3 game types, and being an online 
 only game, the price is a little steep for most. I personally will be picking this game up but 
 i dont expect a hardcore crowd.
  
  enjoy, if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buckelz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best multiplayer FPS i have ever played. This game has great graphics awesome 
 gameplay, and good sound. My favorite part is teleporting behind an enemy through a wall and slashing 
 his neck until there is nothing left, really cool effect and you feel very cool after doing it, 
 something like a Ninja. All the magic is a usefull part of playing the game, espessialy the Revive 
 magic. OK OK there is no story but who needs it when you have great multiplayer. Dont get me wrong 
 it would be much cooler with a storymode but itz still a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xShR3Dx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Grapics - nothing too great not really good graphics but not bad witch makes it run alot better.
 
  
  Sound - really nothing specil about the sound just guns and magic.
  
  gameplay- this is were shadowrun strives all the gameplay that I have never seen in a FPS like 
 magic soo many spells and the glider. Also this is the premeire game for vista and 360 altho I 
 dident see too many vista players.
  
  Value - This game is all multiplayer based no single player Well I guess it has training missions 
 but this game has 4 difrent races all diffrent abillitys.
  this game lasts along time of just running around cuting people with your katana and glideing around. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattwbr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Its Online only and it rocks at what it is. If you get a good team, it is absolutely amazing. Get 
 the demo, learn how to actually play and then imagine it with 2 more classes, 3 more weapons, a 
 lot more powers and a lot more maps. As well as faster matches because more people. Overall good 
 buy if you like shooters.
  
  Oh, and if you do get it, do the tutorials, and dont become a katana wielding ninja who accidentally 
 tk's every1.
  Thanks, please dont believe the reviews, believe the hype and have fun!
  
  This 100 character limit is annoying.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyboy13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Do not listen to the review that gamespot has given shadowrun, this is a great game, inventive 
 and diverse. Good graphics, 75% of games have good connection (because of the cool, xbox360vspc 
 players idea) and is at perfect pase. The perfect summary for this game would be
  
  halo + rainbowsix + oblivion and a hint of cs with the buymenu and cash = SHADOWRUN
  
  the 
 inventive part is mind blowing, you can play, human, dwarf troll, and elf, that alone is really 
 cool, then u get each of the races having different strengths and weaknesses, ie. trolls taking 
 more hits, but running slower, and not having good ability with sword. then you get the throw-in 
 of spells, its genious. lets say your outnumbered watching your flag, 2 guys coming at you, you 
 think.... then you grab your summon ability that you bought at the bergining of the round and have 
 your elemental minion fight by your side evening out the oods, but then one of the two offenesive 
 players goes into a stealth state and finishes the round with one quick katana slice..... or your 
 minion kills one member already being at half hp and you end their raid with a swift shot to the 
 torso with the shotgun.... it makes teamplay and teamwork amazing fun... 4/5 (connectivity sometimes) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  I wanted this game ever since I heard about it a couple weeks ago. I just got this game last night 
 and I can't stop playing this. I think this is the 360's best FPS so far. If this game is this 
 good I expect alot from HALO 3. I hope there are updates for thgis game because it needs more, 
 maps, weapons, and gametypes. I gave this game a 10 because this is what a FPS should be like on 
 360. FEAR is not that fun at all, Call of Duty 3 is just a follow on, Call of Duty 2 is awesome 
 but overplayed by me so thats my reasoning. There are plenty of good weapons in this game and awesome 
 spells. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike_Foxx
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Since games that have had magic and powers, such as Psi-Ops for the PS2, there has been a smattering 
 of games that have tried to employ the hybridization of a shooter and powers. Unfortunately, few 
 can actually pull it off, and Shadowrun is no exception.
  
  The game is begun with training to get familiar with your powers. Before starting a game, you choose 
 a class, all of which have different class-specific latent powers. They can be handy to the extent 
 if you feel they're required during combat. Elves, for example, have the lowest health and armor 
 of the game, but if you can get away from combat long enough, they will auto-heal. The general 
 stats are what you expect to find in any class-driven set of characters; a strong but slow one, 
 a fast but weak one, and an all-rounder. The upside to this game is short; neat powers that can 
 make for some theoretically nice strategies. Your weapon selection is small; basic handgun, rifle, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle, grenades, etc. with no potential to upgrade. Nothing impressive. The bulk 
 of the work seems to have gone into the powers and techs. There are numerous of each, though you 
 can only wield up to 3 at a time in combat, and some will work better with others. For example, 
 being able to glide across the map and teleport through a wall to get the drop on an enemy. You 
 learn all the powers through a short, 6-part training mission, with a follow-up practice session; 
 sadly, the practice sessions end up being more entertaining than the main game itself.
  
  The game itself ends up playing very similar to a blend of Counter-Strike and Halo2. Every level 
 commences with purchasing weapons, magic, and techs. You get a small budget, and barely feels like 
 enough to get some of the cool sets you need to pull off some of the more interesting magic combos. 
 Not to mention also buying a main weapon in there somewhere, too. The magic move this game seems 
 to hinge on is the Ressurection spell, because the game types are basically Survival, e. g., one 
 life. And then you're relient on a team mate to come over and heal you before they're all killed 
 or your own body is destroyed by an opposing team mate, which will make it impossible for you to 
 revive. Weapon play is pretty much spot-on to Halo2, and anyone who's had even the slightest acquaintance 
 with another FPS will be able to jump into the combat.
  
  Combat itself, however, feels overwhelming and too frantic to implement some of the cooler magic 
 moves that could supply a nice surprise for the enemy to walk into. Either it's hard to get ahold 
 of said moves or not enough time before you're shot in the head to set up a perimeter and get to 
 use your newly acquired powers. It would have been a lot more fun to get to use them in a campaign 
 mode like in Psi-Ops, where the enemies would have taken cover and not rushed your location like 
 in the majority of matches where you'll have little opportunity to get a power out. In the end, 
 it boils much into a shooter, with a power employed here and there; which is probably the opposite 
 way most gamers are going to want to play with so many magic powers at their disposal. The package 
 on this game sort of shows why the upcoming BioShock is not implementing an online mode at all 
 and choosing instead to work strictly on a campaign. Borderline last-gen graphics don't help encouraging 
 this game along. Characters designs could have gone a long way in making this look better. There 
 is no option to customize a character in this game, not even the superficial customization Halo2 
 gave, like color and insignias. The magic effects are sub-par, and could have been flashier; same 
 goes for weapon effects. There is also little gore in this game, merely light and dark flashes 
 when a bullet make impacts. There are also moments where it's more than obvious it was partially 
 'dumbed down' to also run on a PC without the effort of having to do a full port. Environments 
 are somewhat bland, and comletely lacking in interaction; no bridges to drop, teleporters to turn 
 on, or anything. The fact that PC gamers and 360 gamers can play side by side on one server is 
 something players of consoles and PC have wanted for some time, but it came at a slight price some 
 gamers may wish they didn't have to pay. Server connection time is snail-pace slow, and is done 
 through matchmaking like Halo2, which just drops you into a game, rather than letting you choose 
 a lobby to go into. Like Halo, this means you can drop into combat in the middle or end of a match.
 
  
  If you're hard up for a new multi-player game, can't wait for Halo3, or were a hardcore fan of 
 Counter-Strike's system of paying for weapons/accessories, might be worth setting down the $60 
 to play. Otherwise, wait for September, or get an old copy of Psi-Ops if you really need to blow 
 someone up with your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foll5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  (I have only played this game for 6h with a friend but thats enough for me to review it)
  
  Shadowruns multiplayer is absolute MAYHEM! If you can't handle a bot of stress in the begining 
 of a gameround will have a hardtime, but it will no problem for more experienced gamers.
  
  After you have bought weapons, tech or magic, you will feel that the game miss some weaponsn and 
 magic (the tech is good) ; like its no assualt rifles and no direct damage magics. But enough with 
 complaining!
  
  In Gamespots review they say that the game miss some maps but I think those who exist is enough. 
 In this game's multiplayer you will teleport around, shooting, rescurecting party members etc etc. 
 Its just plain fun!
  
  The game need some grephic fixes, some new weapons and magics but if you can look through that 
 you will find that you have bought a really good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8erHeadshot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Everyone talked about this game, and I was let down.
  
  Basiclly, you have four races to chose from...
  Human: Extra money, good with tech.
  Dwarf: Steals 
 Essance (Mana)
  Elf: Heals
  Troll: Extra Health, hevey weapons a breeze.
  
  Weapons: Wow, there's nothing special. Your basic SMG, Shotgun, PIstol, Miniguns, etc. The weapons 
 some times feel unbalenced. A couple shots to the head with a pistol, nothing, minigun spray-and-pray, 
 total ownage.
  You can get a sword, whichs changes you to third person cam, which is broken and feels like a second 
 thought
  
  Spells and Tech: The best part. The spells and tech equipment are very different, u can glide around 
 the map, teleport, lock-on tech, spikes, minion (which 9 times out of 10 die in a heartbeat) , invinceabilty, 
 a tree that can heal you, and a x-ray like vision. They all work great, and it is fun to see how 
 they work together, the problem is actavating them.
  
  You can hotkey 3 spells to LB LT and RB. It is easy at first, but after a while u will sometimes 
 cast the wrong spell/tech.
  
  9 Maps, and 1 game mode. Not 3, just really 1. Attack defend, grab and take back to base, and grab 
 to see other team to kill them. I made them sound stupid, beacuse they are.
  
  If you don't have xbox live, dont get this game. Bot matches r all you can do, but after you see 
 how long it takes you to join a match, ur'll wanna do bot matches.
  
  It is basiclly like Halo 2 matchmaking, only for someone, know matter how narrow ur prefences are, 
 you always seem to either take forever to find a match, or get 1 u dont want.
  
  You can join up in a party, but it still takes forever to join a game.
  
  The graphics are 
 amazing sometimes, spell effects and char models are a sight to see, but after you notice how some 
 maps r nothing but white walls, it gets really stale, really fast.
  
  Sound is nothing to brag about, and gamepad controlls are what u'd except from a FPS.
  
  Overall, 
 this is a ok rental, but $60 is way to much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandon80
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  What other game could you be getting shot at and teleport threw the ground and then heal yourself 
 in not any other games i can think of. Then you got the team aspect, you split up all the spells 
 with there best race and then work as a team to help each other out i mean sure it has flaws and 
 such but if you look past the long searching times and the ladder animation its a solid game with 
 a bright future of down loadable content and other fun stuff if FASA supports it in the long run!!! 
 and now im just trying to get 100 words and i should be getting there soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackfire210
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Ahh Shadowrun, I remember being so excited for this game. I mean, what could be better than an 
 advanced version of Counter-Strike? A version of Counter-Strike that DOESN'T get boring. Now, Counter-Strike, 
 especially Source, is a VERY good game, but the thing that makes it so unforgiving to your time 
 is that the community runs it. Models, maps, GUIs, game modes, etc. That's where Shadowrun is severely 
 lacking, while the 9 maps (which are exceptional by the way) and 2 and a half game modes (Raid and 
 Extraction aren't too much to boot from) this game does start to dwindle from how fun it was doing 
 the first 6 chapters of training.
  
  Shadowrun takes the key and good elements from Counter-Strike (Buy system, round based team shooter 
 with no respawns) and just makes it mediocre but not adding user added content. It is indeed a 
 very fun and likable game, but in the end after your third or fourth hour you realize you've been 
 playing the same thing for the past hour, there seems to be no variety in this game. The achievements 
 in this game are fairly easy to get so if you're an achievement whore then you're missing out. 
 The thing is though, most of the achievements are Get 100.... or Kill 100 .... with the .... . 
 You can tell they added those so people will keep playing. I certainly got bored after my fourth 
 or fifth hour and the achievements aren't doing much to keep me in the game very long.
  
  One thing to note is PC to 360 cross-playing. Now this may seem like a big jump, but really it 
 isn't. It was done in a very poor way for the PC (High requirements, ONLY Vista support, etc.) that 
 no one even owns it. So don't expect to get your Get 100 kills from the other platform achievement 
 anytime soon if you're a 360 player. Most PC users also feel gimped because in order to balance 
 it for both worlds they had to alter the movement with the mouse, making the PC user feel like 
 it's the game doing the work for them and not their hands.
  
  Shadowrun by no means is a bad game. But when you look down the road and realize you paid full 
 price for an unfinished game that you know you'll have to buy Downloadable Content just to make 
 it worth it, you know you aren't going to be very pleased in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun offers good FPS multiplayer fun. Magic powers such as teleportation and cybernetic upgrades 
 like wired reflexes set this FPS apart from what has become a crowded genre. The problem with Shadowrun 
 however is that the game costs $60 but is really not a full game. There is no single player mode, 
 which personally I dont really care about however I do not want to pay full price for half a game. 
 So, without a true single player component you would assume the multiplayer would be spectactular. 
 Well,. sadly this is not the case. Graphically, while by no means bad Shadowrun is less than spectacular 
 and maxes out at 720p. In addition the user interface for multiplayer is not as responsive and 
 qucik as say Call of Duty 3's multiplayer interface which I would dare say is one of the best on 
 the 360. Additionally, character models could be better detailed and animations like the classic 
 slide up a ladder make this game feel more like a mod than a full game. While Shadowrun offers 
 up some good FPS fun this should really have been a downloadable game on Live for $30.00. That 
 would be a fair price for a fair game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacman1192
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  In Shadowrun you must be ready for anything from a katana wielding dwarf teleporting behind you 
 to an elf in smoke form while you try to snipe him. You can teleport in any direction to not only 
 attack but also escape, or turn into smoke and run for your life. Use strangle to cut off vital 
 areas or spawn a beast from beyond this world to help you defend yourself or the artifact A. K. A 
 the flag. Use gust to get enemies away from anything while you unload on them or use it on a smoked 
 opponent for devastating after effects. Summon a tree out of nowhere to heal you or your allies 
 but beware as the tree will heal fos too so defend it well. Now while using techs takes away essence 
 they can be very helpful, like smartlink allows you to zoom in with any weapon or add an extra 
 level of zoom, enhanced vision to see through walls and get the jump on your target. The anti magic 
 generators help too cut off your opponents use of magic or eliminate their magical defense. Last 
 but not least is the glider good for those offensive people or snipers to get good views of the 
 field ( this works well with teleport to get to otherwise unreachable areas) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decapzombie42
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  i wasn't following this when i first heard about it in 2006 but as the release date came closer 
 and more footage was released i realised that this would be a great team playing online game and 
 i was right! i even paid &pound;5 extra to get it on the day cos i bought it in the shops not online. 
 it has immense team playing at first you may be annoyed about not respawning until the end of the 
 round but you learn to preserve yourself. who cares about no single player its the online that 
 counts like Perfect dark zero had a great online but a rubbish single player which people only 
 played for achievements. or halo for example i am part of a small minority that hates halo because 
 i think its basic the story was crap and so was the online but this game is great because it focuses 
 on online where i spend most of my time as its more challenging and fun screw story storylines 
 are for great RPGs not fast paced shooters. 6.9 gamespot what were you thinking? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Game_Hunter
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:04 am PT
Review:  I have only played the demo but i think that the demo is awesome and the demo is like 1/10th of 
 the game, i just can not wait to play it, i am going to buy it today and you must to, or at least 
 try thge demo. it is soooooooooooooooooooooooooooo fun. and very original, i am a big fan of FPS 
 and i am good at picking out which FPS is good or not and this is good. Gamespot is crazy for giving 
 it a 6.9 becasue people float on ladders, or no single player, but who the heck cares its the gameplay 
 that matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flav333
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  If you take CounterStrike+Oblivion+Fun maps= Really noteworthy
  Game. So what if the game has no single player campaign, would you rather play GOW online or the 
 storymode? I would choose playing online anyday. The game has 9 maps, but they're all fun (unlike 
 Lost Planet) . Shadowrun has really fun and creative weapons, magic, and technical options. Before 
 every match you buy weapons, magic, and tech; all these options make battles epic with hangliders, 
 teleport magic, heck even a katana that fits in the game. The game is easy to learn as long as 
 you do the training. The achievements are not hard to get, many just take some patience. All races 
 are fun to play with and have their own unique ablities, and many people play this game so matches 
 are not hard to find. If you got a good connection it will take as long as 3 minutes to find a 
 match. Then you can just stay with your group when the match ends and do a new match with the same 
 group wasting no time at all. If you think matches take long to load just play Saints Row then 
 talk to me. TRUST ME! This game is sweet DO NOT miss out on this fanstastic game. The only thing 
 I would request for this game is more weapons and character armor and maybe character customization. This 
 game is amazing buy it and have fuun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swudeson
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun for the Xbox 360 was always going to be 100% online (minus the few tutorials) . Too many 
 gaming websites and magazines are giving their mediocre reviews to this brilliant game based on 
 what they think it lacks (campaign or story) and not on what it actually brings to the consumer.
 
  
  This game brings forth a new advancement in gaming: cross-platform game play. Shadowrun is the 
 first game to allow PC users and Xbox 360 users to play together anytime, anywhere. The game play 
 is solid, with very few instances of latency issues (usually a 2 second sync before each round) .
 
  
  The graphics are very good for a game dedicated to the multiplayer experience. After seeing the 
 visual effect used when a character teleports through a wall, you will wonder how it got a lower 
 rating that most other games.
  
  The sounds are limited to only gunfire (or sword swings) and grunting of characters. There is no 
 background music, just a voice-over for important announcements.
  
  Some are worried about the fact that PC to 360 will be a problem. This controversy is brought about 
 by the known history of PC hacks and mods. Considering the price of the 360, many havn't gone through 
 the trouble of opening it up to actually modify its contents. So far, cheating hasn't been a problem, 
 but only time will tell.
  
  This is a MUST HAVE for Xbox 360 and PC owners. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo4342
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 1:22 pm PT
Review:  When i first picked up this game i was a little disappointed when i was playing through the tutorials 
 due to the lack of single player. However, i then went on the multiplayer and found a truly awesome 
 game! It took a while to get used to the guns and knowing what each magic does and what it is, 
 and isn't affective against but this was all part of the fun. Once you get to grips with it, it 
 is truly astonishing as no game is ever the same as the next due to both your own team and the 
 enemy constantly adapting to try and gain the upper hand. It may not be as visually stunning as 
 GoW however, the gameplay is just as good if not better, and is without a doubt, very different 
 to every other FPS you have ever played.
  
  If you do not have a xbox live gold account i wouldnt even reckomend it as ALL the fun and innovation 
 is in the multiplayer. Finally, my only gripe with the game is the lack of split screen online 
 multiplayer and the slightly lengthy searching times when trying to find a server, but other than 
 that it is perfect in every other sense, and the gamespot score of 6.9 doesn't do this game justice 
 as it is at least a 8.5!!
  
  (I prefer this to the halo3 beta as it truly is nothing like you have played before, in fact i 
 havn't even touched halo3 since i bought this game.)
  
  9.1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Notice the difference in score from what we, the people rate this game and what Gamespot rates 
 it. Big difference. Why is that? Not sure, but what I do know is that this is one addicting game. 
 I have passed hours and hours unflinchingly running this artifact around and protecting it. Flying 
 through the air and casting Tree of LIfe's. I've snipered in the air while flying. I've teleported 
 through walls and up through floors. I've used my enhanced vision to locate enemies before they 
 know I'm there and get the edge. I've covered the base where the enemy needs to take the artifact 
 with these big spikes that catch the enemy so they get stuck..... it's called strangle. I've blown 
 them off rooftops with my gust. I've done it all in this game and it's loads of fun. There's so 
 much variety and you never know what spells or weapons your enemy has and what you're going up 
 against so it keeps it exciting. Your enemy changes, he's not always the same. You can change. 
 You're not always the same. Forget what you've heard (if it's been bad) this game is loads of fun!! 
 Especially with friends. At first I was bummed cause there was no single player campaign but after 
 I got into it, I understood. There's no need for single player. It wasn't made for that. There's 
 NEVER EVER been a multiplayer game like this!!! Innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terravolta
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Do you like intense action that makes you constantly shift from being at the end of your seat to 
 sinking so far back into it that you can almost feel your kidneys shrink from years of alcoholism? 
 Then this game is for you. I fell in love pretty quickly with the universe of ShadowRun although 
 there is no single player campaign or even much of a tutorial. The game just seems to apply the 
 right blend of kick ass weapons, mind blowing abilities and comic cool post apocalyptic style. 
 The overall game play is fast paced, nearly unpredictable, and if you can play it well enough, 
 a real brain workout. Theres so many abilities to make use of almost any situation or gun battle 
 will have you saying Man I wish I had bought that ability . I encourage you all to go out and buy 
 this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nackyer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:53 am PT
Review:  6.9 for Shadowrun is a crazy low note. For the graphics, if you liked crackdown's ones, you will 
 like shadowrun's. Sound is totally perfect. Explosions, magics casted, people falling from roofs 
 and dying on ground cause you pushed them with gust, and every others.
  
  The gameplay is also pretty nice. Once you've completed the tutorial, you will see that it is very 
 simple, but that it still let you do a lot. The solo mode isn't as bad as gamespot says. Of course 
 there isn't a really big story around it, but multiplayer compensate enough to forget it.
  
  To conclude, if you are a xbox live user, this game is a real must, if not, then a rent should 
 do. The only missing thing I think is that there is no split-screen multiplayer, which left me 
 a bit cold, but the rest is really good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Upon picking up my copy of Shadowrun, I was extremely excited to see how far it had come along 
 since March, when I played the beta at CES in Las Vegas. For me, this is one of my more anticipated 
 games of the year.
  
  I am disappointed. The beta I played at CES is almost an identical play of the final product. That 
 necessarily isn't a bad thing. The beta was very fun. But still, the beta felt like a beta because 
 of the lack of options, maps, and other stuff. Shadowrun seems to have kept the excellent formula, 
 style, and gameplay of the beta, but left out A LOT of options that should've been included in 
 the final game.
  
  For instance, there is not (to my knowledge) a way to change the number of rounds you play in a 
 multiplayer match. You ALWAYS need 6 rounds to win a match. It isn't too long or too short, but 
 damn, how about a little choice here, FASA?
  
  Another little annoyance is with the lack of a singleplayer. C'mon, FASA! I know it is meant for 
 online, but at least give us something meaningful in singleplayer. There is the 6 mission training, 
 but so what? I want to have the ability to play co-op with my buddies over XBL and go through the 
 singleplayer together and get better as a group.
  
  There are plenty of other little annoyances, which make the expierence not so fun.
  
  The magic 
 and tech system, and button mapping is well done. After the first few times of clunking around 
 the interface, you begin to pick it up quite nicely. With some ample time with the game, setting 
 magic and tech is a breeze. The whole flow of the game is solid. It is fast, tactical, and forces 
 the player to work as a team. If you don't, you will die quickly.
  
  The magic and tech items are fun to use. The best part is using those items in new and interesting 
 ways, and finding out the best ways through the maps with what magic or tech.
  
  Overall, the Shadowrun experience can be summed up in two words. Quick fun. Shadowrun isn't a deep 
 game, and it probably won't take time away from Gears of War, but it is a filler while we wait 
 for Bioshock, Mass Effect, Halo 3, or whatever hyped game you are waiting for. It is a simple, 
 fun, tactical and fast experience. However, to charge $70 for this game, with no options, no maps, 
 and a diluted experience leaves a bitter taste in my mouth, especially because it had the potential 
 to be so much more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarCry2000
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Some people think that a game always has to have a great single player storyline, but in todays 
 game its all about multi player/online gaming. Many people only play games for multi player purposes 
 for example, when many people including myself got Gears of War we went right to the online mode. 
 When you have great multi player games like Shadowrun it will increase the playability of the game 
 because it is unpredictable unlike a regular storyline. So if your are still unsure about the game 
 give it a legitimate try and play for a hour or two online. Give the game a few months it will 
 be on the top mark my words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littleman1992
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I would first like to start out with that this game is truly amazing. The magic and technology 
 is all balanced out so theres no certain type of magic or technology that rules all of the other 
 ones. There is also not noob combo such as Halo 2. If you use some magic on a person the other 
 person always has something that could counter it. The races in this game are also very balanced 
 except for the Troll which has a little bit more of an advantage health wise.
  
  Overall this is one astonishing game and it has to be one of the funnest multiplayer games I have 
 ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserka93
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing on it non stop since i got it, the game play is brilliant i love every single 
 one of the maps. I love the way they have set up how you buy up all of your equipment and essentials 
 before everysingle round. I think that everysingle race has its own strengths and weaknesses, no 
 race has an overall advantage. The graphics may not be next gen but i personally think that the 
 gameplay challenges gears of war.
  
  But i think this is a game that i like to call a Marmite Game . You ether love it or you hate it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravanofdarkness
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:04 am PT
Review:  Shadow Run plays and feels like Halo 2+Counter Strike with a bit Magic pretty good and fun playing 
 with friends online the game has no Stroy mode at all that makes it kinda dissapointing and takes 
 forever sometimes too find a match and lags alot sometimes, but put all these things a side the 
 game plays great its alot of fun playing it together with friends and it doesent take long to get 
 used to the controles and its pretty looking aswell so its really a good game hopefully they update 
 new maps and gametyps but its really one of the most fun Online Multiplayer games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZippyDSMLee
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:24 am PT
Review:  I spent a couple hours messing with it at a friends house, lets make this clear this is not a shadow 
 run game, what they did was take a mediocre CS clone and slaped on some IP's they raped from the 
 Shadowrun license.
  
  This game is not a total failure but its really just a mediocre CS clone nothing less nothing more 
 if you are a CS nut you might enjoy, if you are a hardcore MP FPS nut you'll like it but anyone 
 looking for depth in fun or something new... save your 50$ for bioshock...
  
  I am a jaded FPSer tired of cash in titles and cheap level design (D3, Q4) I rate games comparing 
 them to what I have played and the fun factor within this game dose not stack up on any counts 
 to me thus tis a 4.1, industry standard being mesmerized by the light to them its above average 
 6+.
  ---------------------------------------------------
  A slight re-review, with the updates they have improved the game some but tis still a odd MP FPS 
 and dose not garner the 50$+ price tag, with the updates I fear its up to industry standard but 
 its still not average to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxBIRDman23xx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  If you take CounterStrike+Oblivion+Fun maps= Really noteworthy
  Game. So what if the game has no single player campaign, would you rather play GOW online or the 
 storymode? I would choose playing online anyday. The game has 9 maps, but they're all fun (unlike 
 Lost Planet) . Shadowrun has really fun and creative weapons, magic, and technical options. Before 
 every match you buy weapons, magic, and tech; all these options make battles epic with hangliders, 
 teleport magic, heck even a katana that fits in the game. The game is easy to learn as long as 
 you do the training. The achievements are not hard to get, many just take some patience. All races 
 are fun to play with and have their own unique ablities, and many people play this game so matches 
 are not hard to find. If you got a good connection it will take as long as 3 minutes to find a 
 match. Then you can just stay with your group when the match ends and do a new match with the same 
 group wasting no time at all. If you think matches take long to load just play Saints Row then 
 talk to me. TRUST ME! This game is sweet DO NOT miss out on this fanstastic game. The only thing 
 I would request for this game is more weapons and character armor and maybe character customization 
 PS- Who cares if the characters float when climbing a ladder, Im Super Cerealy (stupid dorks) TEE 
 HEE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The only offline mechanics to Shadowrun are the training and bot matches (if you want 
 them) ; the real meat is in it's innovative multiplayer experience. Games usually run from 4 to 
 16 people, with people constantly joining games and ramping it up to 16 in no time. You start out 
 matches with money from which you use to decide the weapons, spells, and techs you want; you can 
 even gift $250 increments to your team if they lack the required funds. You can pick from an array 
 of guns and melee weapons (SMGs, Rifles, Sniper Rifles, Rocket Launchers, Katanas, etc.) , spells 
 (Summon, Gust, Smoke, Tree of Life, Resurrect, etc.) , and techs (Gliders, Enhanced Vision, SmartLink, 
 etc) you begin your match on one of 9 maps (3 being smaller versions of 3 of the other 6 maps) . 
 As far as what race you are, you can pick from a Dwarf (who can take 2 consecutive headshots before 
 dieing, can absorb essence, and is overall a bit harder to hit) , Elf (who can regenerate health 
 when not being hit, moves fast, easier to kill) , Human (the average stats of every other race and 
 ideal with techs, not as much health as others but not as little as elf) , and finally the Troll 
 (who is hard to kill, can harden to resist damage, can easily carry heavy weapons, but is slower 
 than others) ; no customization or skin features are present. The game comes with 3 game types usually 
 consisting of grabbing an artifact (your basic flag) or just killing your enemy. The magic itself 
 is the real innovative feature of SR, in which the spells you decide to buy and use can change 
 the whole game (resurrecting or healing allies, having minions do your bidding, and so on) . All 
 games end when either team wins 6 rounds, in which your can stay in that game and continue playing 
 or search for a new one. This game also takes from Halo 2's matchmaking, where you can lobby with 
 your friends then the leader can search for a game; yet, your first match with your friends is 
 usually split for balancing reasons, also the searching takes significantly longer than Halos. 
 You really need to rent this game to get how much of it there is, it takes about an hour to complete 
 the 6 chapters of tutorial and learning those mechanics, so let that speak for itself. Overall 
 it's easy to learn, but hard to master.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good, but as far as the sky effects and buildings, they could 
 have used a lot more attention. In an industry where looks tell a game at first glance, these aren't 
 the best, but they will suffice. I can deal with them, since they ARE great to look at, they just 
 don't portray anything on the Unreal 3 engine. As far as animations go, most look great, but there 
 is no ladder animation; I don't really care about this animation, but some people think the company 
 was skimping out and trying to rush the game, but in reality, you need to see your environment 
 as your climb up a ladder.
  
  Sound: The overall sounds are great, it's just a bummer there isn't any music to portray the situation 
 like a defeat, a victory, or even to get your heart pumping when the other team is about to score.
 
  
  Value: There's a lot of multiplayer value on this game; while the maps are great, some get tiring 
 fast (like Maelstrom) and some are played too much (like Nerve Center) . No customization is something 
 I was feel was missed; I hate dieing to the same-looking elves every single game. But really, the 
 experience changes every game since nobody plays like anyone else, some are greedy, some are nice, 
 some get the right abilities, others are questionable, it really does vary each game and separate 
 it from other shooters.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I thought this game was bad and just another shooter till I got to see it in action, 
 then I decided it was a great game. This game is a must-buy, especially since the achievements 
 are kind of time-consuming, but if you need something to hold you over till Halo 3; this is your 
 choice.
  
  Final Word: Questionable at first sight, easy to learn and hard to master, and an experience that's 
 fun and addicting but never the same each game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kithooton
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Its a Simple Multiplayer game with no single player missions, but who cares, its a xbox live game. 
 Its simple, just shot and kill but the twist is theres magic involved. Every start of the match 
 you earn and win money depending if your team and yourself are good and are wining the rounds. 
 You buy Weapons, Tech and Magic. Like you would in Counter strike. The only thing is its a little 
 basic in graphics in the models, and the ladder movement sucks. I think a patch needs to be made 
 to fix little issues such as; more graphics and animation in the modals, more levels and maybe 
 new faces and looks on the same characters.
  
  I wouldn't pay &pound;39.99 xbox360 and the cheek of PC Version's is &pound;29.99. Everybody knows 
 that the PC Version will lose its Value and become cheap.
  I think both versions should be around &pound;19.99 because of the game cutting corners and its 
 only multiplayer.
  But all and all its a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rckildare
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Let me say this, THIS GAME IS GOOD! But ... only if you have LIVE. If you don't, then it sucks! 
 This game is a hybrid of Counter strike meets Halo with a touch of Quake. Smooth, fast-paced action 
 with so many ways of tricking and out manuevering that even though you'll learn the basics in an 
 hour it'll take weeks if not months to master all the diffrent variations of magic and tech and 
 character you can combine. In Gamespot's review they rag on it because it didn't use any of the 
 Shadowruns story ... to that, I don't care because Shadowrun is not about fast paced FPS, it's 
 a variation in it's universe. Kinda like Halo Wars in comparison to Halo. I highly recommend renting 
 it first though, because I don't wanna be a dick and sugar coat it just because of my great experience 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjlee420
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  Ok, i think gamespot was a little harsh on this game. About the only thing i agree on is the price 
 is too high for the content (should have been around $30.) But this game is extremely fun to just 
 pick up and play for a couple of hours go any longer and it starts getting a little old. Hopefully 
 DLC will be coming soon and it better be free dont screw us microsoft.
  
  There is some issues with the online to. For the most part it runs pretty smooth better than alot 
 of other xbox live games. But be prepared to wait ten minutes or more sometimes to get into a match, 
 but once your in everything go pretty smooth until your kicked out of the server.
  
  Bottom line if you want a simple but deep online shooter thats fun ass hell to play in short doses 
 with great controls and good graphics &amp; sound then give this one a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jremi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that online FPS gamers will love. It's extremely well balanced and offers 
 a nice array of character customization to play the style that best fits you. Gone are the days 
 where everyone has the same weapons or skills, I wish more games would follow Shadowruns pace. 
 Sure the price tag seems a bit high considering its only multiplayer and offline bot matches but 
 when you think about it so are most games, sports, fighting games, etc.. It's well worth it. If 
 you have the money to spend by all means go get shadowrun, it will last you for quite some time.. 
 Can't wait for the first update FASA has announced! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huntAD
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a first person shooter that combines modern weapons with magic and technology. The 
 game has several rpg elements to it as well as varied gameplay. There are four playable races each 
 with their own racial traits. For example, Elves run fast and regenerate health and Dwarves drain 
 magic from anything that contains it. The game is heavily based on magic abilities and technology. 
 These powers can be bought along with weapons at the start of every round.
  
  Singleplayer: As you might have heard, the single player in Shadowrun is non-existent. There is 
 no campaign or story mode. However, there are training levels and bot matches that are mainly there 
 to prepare you for the multiplayer portion of the game. It is saddening that the game lacks a singleplayer 
 but has already been advertised as a multiplayer-focused game. Multiplayer: This is where the real 
 meat of the game lies. The game plays in a round based style (comparable to games such as counter-strike) . 
 Each round you will have earned money which you can spend on Weapons, technology, or magic. Shadowrun 
 gives players an incentive to earn as much money as they can so they can buy the biggest guns possible. 
 On paper this sounds like a real borefest as there are no respawns. In actuality the game contains 
 an enormous amount of depth. For example, an enemy has severly damaged you and is right on your 
 tail. You try to outgun him. 9 out of 10 times this approach fails. WIth magic you can do things 
 such as teleport a floor above or below your opponent, place a tree of life and heal to fight your 
 opponent, or even poof into a cloud of smoke and watch as your opponent desperatley tries and fails 
 to hit you. As you can see, magic changes this standard fps and transforms it into something new 
 and exciting.
  
  Thoughts: This is not a pick-up and play game. On the flip-side, those who have the patience to 
 grasp the concept of the gameplay are rewarded with one of the best multiplayer experiences on 
 xbox live. At first the lack of weapons feels disappointing, but combined with a variety of technology 
 and magic each kill is satisfying in a totally different way. Examples would be using the magic 
 spell called teleport to travel through a wall and frag someone with a shotgun, or using the katana 
 to stab an unsuspecting player in the back and watching them bleed to death. The possibilities 
 are endless. The endless possibilities keep the game experiences fresh and exciting. To put it 
 short, there is a lot of replay value here. Each kill with the katana leaves you hungry for another 
 sneak attack. Taking down a troll as a dwarf is as rewarding as killing two birds with one stone. 
 The main mistake people make is not giving the game a chance. It takes time to get used to but 
 is very unique. It is not a typical run and gun shooter, it is indeed its own type of game. With 
 that said any type of game that renews its genre is worth a try at least and Shadowrun is no exception. 
 This is truly becoming the years sleeper hit. Give the game a try. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptJoey
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  Don&acute; t listen to Gamespot or other reviews that says that this game sucks because it dosen&acute; t. 
 It ROCKS!!! This game is like CS Source and Halo together. The fun part about this game is that 
 there is like total mayhem on the maps with trolls, humans, dwarfs and elves running around shooting 
 and casting spells on each other. However there is still some tactics around this game because 
 you can just equip three spells or tech upgrades so that makes it impossible to survive alone. 
 So you will have to cooperate during the rounds and tell the other teammates what kind of magics 
 or techs you have so that they know which kind of tactics the team should use.
  
  The bad part about this game is that you can sometimes be disconnected from a game because your 
 internet connection is to bad. They will probobly fix this with a patch later on.
  
  I bought this game last Saturday and I just can stop playing it. It is so great.
  If you want 
 a good multiplayer game with mayhem and some tactics you should really buy this game. Most people 
 are afraid to buy this game but you shouldn&acute; t because it rock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dewwy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2007 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I've been reading the reviews, saying how the game is shallow, and that it's a total failure of 
 a game in the year 2007. How the sound is mediocre, the graphics bare, the animations lacking. 
 I can certainly see why this would be said, but I'm here to hopefully give the alternate view.
 
  
  The thing about Shadowrun is that you can either view it as a totally worthless game with 9 maps, 
 3 game modes, and online only. This is the review coming from all the websites. However, the most 
 integral factor of any single game ever released isn't being totally taken into account. The fun 
 factor. That's the same factor that the Wii is being sold out at stores all over the world even 
 at this day in time, yet being technologically inferior to the 360 and PS3. It's also the same 
 reason why you sometimes see multi-year old games still being played in leagues and competitions. 
 Heck, it's even the reason why you, the reader, might pop in a decade old game into your N64 or 
 SNES - to relive the fun it provided.
  
  Shadowrun has a ton of fun in it. If you have some friends to play with it won't even matter if 
 they're on your time (which they are most of the time) or if they're against you (which can occur 
 due to the matchmaking system) . If you're against them you just get that pleasure of taking off 
 their head with a sniper rifle or bleeding them out with a katana, only to smack talk them about 
 it later.
  
  This fun is only amplified with the openness of the abilities in the game. You will absolutely 
 scream in joy when you kill a troll with nothing but a pistol by teleporting this way and that, 
 taking down his health a few shots at a time while his mini gun shoots at the wall you just teleported 
 through, only to be shot at from behind after you teleporting down from the ceiling. You'll be 
 screaming through the headset as you use the gust ability to throw a grenade right back in an enemies 
 face, killing him, or perhaps gusting him off of a map. If you get a good team together and are 
 working as a coordinated unit on the Raid (attack/defense) game mode, you will see what the game 
 is truly capable of with the strangle ability, healing support, anti magic generator, minion summoning, 
 and race variety all coming to work together to provide a shooter experience far beyond (and more 
 fun) than Counter-Strike, and several other shooters, could ever provide. You'll get addicted to 
 the game, and when that happens you'll keep on playing and playing.
  
  Now, there are negatives to the game that are quite annoying. Stat tracking, the occasional connection 
 issue, customization etc. I won't bother naming those things, just look at Gamespot's, or IGN's 
 reviews to learn about those. But don't let those views think the game isn't fun and addictive. 
 It's worth the price tag to buy if you're a shooter fan, because once you get drawn into it and 
 start rolling with a crew you'll be playing it for a long time.
  
  And hey, there's always the faint hope that someday, somehow, there'll be an update (s) (maybe even 
 free!) that will add some more game modes, maps, weapons, magic, tech, races, etc. If more depth 
 were to be added, the game would even have more lasting appeal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c5ls1vette
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  I do not know what the reviewer was thinking when they gave this game a 6.8. I have been playing 
 games for a long time and I have always loved rpg's and online deathmatch. This game brings the 
 best of both worlds. The way the game is setup you really have to rely on your team, or you are 
 not going to win. The controls are very tight especially when gliding and teleporting. The fun 
 factor is through the roof. This game takes awhile to get used to and I am still learning new combinations 
 every day. The are just so many different variables on how to win. Also, the characters are very 
 well balanced. The game has lot of replay value. I do not know why they penalize a game for no 
 single player and not penalize a game for no multiplayer. I mean this is 2007, how many gamers 
 are not playing online? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Shadowrun has no single-player ,but NO it doesn't make it a bad game. The single-player is 
 one of the very tiny things Shadowrun lacks. The grpahics in the game are pretty dang good! The 
 reason? Because they have to be! In a game where you can teleport, be a troll, glide, and even ressurect 
 people the graphics HAVE to be good! And Shadowrun has that. There are a few points when you'll 
 see some glitchy-ness ,but otherwise it's pretty great grpahics. The guns are designed like no other 
 games guns which is another spot in which the grpahics play a big part. The sound is great! When 
 you teleport you'll hear a sound that sounds like... a teleporter! When you glide you'll here a 
 small whistle type sound that make you think you're really gliding (or at least on a hand-glider) . 
 The value of this game takes a HUGE part in the review. This is the 1rst game out for both Windows 
 Vista and Xbox 360 in which you can play with people one different platform (or consoles) . The game 
 has many achievements that tie in with the whole cross-platform theme, such as ressurect a player 
 on Windows Vista or ressurect am Xbox 360 player. The value is BIG considering this tells Windows 
 Vista and Xbox 360 players how other Cross-Platform games will be like. The multiplayer lacks 2 
 MAJOR things.1.) Maps, there are small maps and big maps and then there are maps in which you can 
 play with however many players you choose! It seems like once you played on about 5 maps you've 
 seen it all even though there's more maps to play on.2.) Weapons, there are an SMG, Rifle, Rocket 
 Launcher (which only holds one rocket!) , shotugn, katana, and a ouple others. It hink the reason they 
 only put that many guns is because Microsoft and Fasa thought that gamers would be occupied with 
 that amount. Well BIG NEWS were not! Shadowrun is game filled of magic that's easy to summon, guns 
 that'll keep you on a killing spree, and races that have unique abilities that come with each. For 
 an online only game it's pretty good! I give Shadowrun for the XBOX 360 8.9 midget dwarfs running 
 around with katanas (which looks oddly funny) out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twixdude69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  shadow run at minimum should have gotten at least an 8.0 thats crap that the'll give bad games 
 that the fans don; t recommend. this game wasn't ment to be a singel player game and they should't 
 mark it down just because thats not the game they were going for they set out to make a good multi 
 player game and they did just that. a campagn that they didnt want to make would have ben reflected 
 as that and would not have ben played that much anyway. for instance people dont play halo or gears 
 for single player there nice to have and there fun the first few times but multiplayer is better 
 regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokoane123
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 5, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  when i first played this game i was like, yeah it did deserve the horrid score Jeff gave it. But 
 after you play for a while, it becomes immersive and involves serious tactical strategies. It takes 
 a while to get the hang of, so be patient. Its not THE MUST HAVE GAME FOR TEH 360!!! but it will 
 last you u long if u if u give it a chance. I mean it does need a couple of more maps and maybe 
 some more character customization but the straight up in ur face kind of fast paced game play will 
 keep u entertained.
  
  Game Play - Its one of the best shooters (in terms of game play) ive played. It involves strategical 
 maneuvers and is not your average point and shoot type game. If you liked the game play of Counterstrike, 
 YOU WILL LOVE THIS! The only reason its not a perfect 10 in game play is cause it gets a bit difficult 
 at times. Graphics - Ok, so nowadays every game is judged by its graphics. Dont get me wrong here, 
 the graphics are great but they could be a tad bit better when compared to Gears or War. Value 
 - I usually tend to play online way more than SP in shooters. So since this game is almost perfected 
 in online, it gives great value. A single player campaign would be sweet but im not complaining 
 cause on e of the other greatest shooters of all time didn't have one either ( COUNTER STRIKE XD!!) 
 Ya i agree s couple of new maps would be great but im still happy. The maps are enormous so they 
 kinda fill the lack of less maps.
  
  Pick up this game and u will love it!! But remember to give it a chance and play it for a while. 
 Trust me, you will get into it eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArestHK
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Don&acute; t believe the reviews, they don&acute; t now what they&acute; re talking about!
  It&acute; s the best MP-Shooter on the 360!
  Just take a look at the average User&acute; s score!
 
  And the grafics an&acute; t bad, it&acute; s just a style like in PDZ or Crackdown, which I like 
 very much!
  Just that it doesn&acute; t look like GoW doesn&acute; t mean that it&acute; s ugly!
  And enjoy 
 the lightning and magic-effects!!
  I played GoW&acute; s MP regularly since day 1, but the only reason why I&acute; d put it inside 
 my box again now is to meet some of my LIVE friends who didn&acute; t buy SR yet.
  And every single round I&acute; ll be trying to convince them, to get SR as soon as possible!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romayo83
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Well im pretty impessed with this game, i guess sites who rated it arent giving it low scores... I 
 know its not perfect but 6.9??? thats unreal.
  
  The Graphics are cartoonish but still look decent... there no gears of war by any means but framerate 
 is good no slowdowns or gliches that ive noticed.
  
  Gameplay is somewhat fast paced depending on your race. One thing i did notice is that Gun are 
 not balanced! For example: Sniper Rifle is completely useless u cant fire unless ur in Zoom mode 
 and most maps are too small to use it. also one shot kills dont exist.
  -Shotgun has horrible range, low mag capacity and doesnt pack enough punch close range.
  -Mini-gun 
 is very powerful, and unexpensive to purchase.. totally rips apart anything that walks infront on 
 you.
  -Grenades don't have much impact even to weaker races like elfs.
  
  some magic isnt as useful as others... such as Summon which creates a massive guardian creature 
 to protect a designated area or enemy. and strangle to trap pathways etc... i find Gust doesnt repel 
 enemies far enough away from you and wired reflexes is a waste of time.
  
  Sound is okay, nothing special.
  
  Im thinking if they came out with a sequel i would have 
 plenty of suggestions to make, such as buying tech/mage can only be used for certain races, explosive 
 environments, more online modes, maybe a deathmatch... choosable character models, more rescources 
 for the human race like a flak jacket (i find humans tobe the weakest race out of the 4) etc...
 
  
  All in all its a good multiplayer game with a few faults that doesnt render the online experience... It 
 can be a strategic shooter if your team works together not as other mentioned as mindless shooting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jac494
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a great game, just not a great shooter lol! I really enjoyed flying around and some 
 of the spells were really cool to use. My problem with this game is that it requires way too much 
 ammo to kill someone. Apparently head shots also count for nothing unless you are using the sniper 
 rifle. I recommend renting this game before you buy it. I enjoyed it enough to where I probably 
 will end up buying it but dont go in expecting a lot when it comes to the shooting aspect of the 
 game. King of reminds me of Counterstrike but with magic, and less lethal weapons. I would have 
 rated this game higher if only the guns worked better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottiegUT
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Good Idea. Bad Game. Lacks Longevity. Fun Magic Powers. Terrible Animations. Servers terrible. 
 Worth Renting, not buying for $60. Few Weapons. Tech is Cool. No 1p mode. I put this game in not 
 knowing it didn't have a 1 player mode. That let me down a lot. The ideas are great, but it just 
 doesn't have enough to be worth it. If a lot of people were online playing it, it might be worth 
 it, but there are constantly problems. The magic and tech ideas are really cool, but they really 
 rushed the game out I believe. The game lacks good animation, I really am surprised how you can 
 release a game on Next Gen and not have a animation in 3rd person view of someone climbing a ladder.... instead 
 you float up the ladder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameron_love
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Having been a huge fan of Battlefield 2 Modern Combat, racking up 300+ hours of multiplayer, i 
 am ready to tackle something new and Shadowrun sounded like a dream.
  
  So I have been playing it online for 3 nights now and my impressions are this. The controls take 
 time to grow used to, the standard FPS controls are there and easy enough to use but it is the 
 fiddling about with the Magic and Tech skills that get trickier. Once you assign them to a shoulder 
 or trigger button they are a fair bit easier to use (although occaisionally pressing the wrong 
 one in the heat of the action is annoying.) My advice if your new is to pick a Class and then pick 
 2 really good Magic Spells and stick with them for a few nights, so you get used to them and can 
 call on them quickly in the heat of battle rather than having to keep checking the HUD and working 
 out where you assigned a new skill and finding you have been fragged.
  
  The lack of respawning isnt too big a deal, usually i hated Counterstrike (that this was based 
 on) because you would die in the first 30 seconds and sit out of the game for several minutes. 
 Shadowrun isnt as annoying because when you die the first time, there is the opportunity for someone 
 to revive you and you get the proverbial second chance. Even if you do die and have to sit it out, 
 about 80% of games usually end within 1 or 2 mins rather than go all the way to the end of the 
 4 minute time limit. The graphics are adequate in my eyes. On a game like this with so many people 
 running about and the action so fast and furious it isnt a game where you can sit and look at the 
 pretty visuals or count the tattooes on the Linage faces. They could be slightly more polished 
 maybe but for a Multiplayer battle they are more than suitable and never make any negative impact 
 on the game. The sound is also adequate and the ability to talk to your teamates even when you 
 have died is very valuable as a strategy for having a couple of extra pairs of eyes watching over 
 your shoulder telling you if someone is behind you or pinpointing the enemy for you. The weapons 
 in my eyes are one of the weakest parts of the game. They lack any real punch unlike other games 
 such as Battlefield 2. They are not loud or powerful sounding and chances are that your more likely 
 to kill an enemy with the grenades than you are with the guns. The SMG for example will use up 
 a full clip of 50 rounds and unless your 2 feet away from the target and hit him with the vast 
 majority of those 50 rounds, they are still going to be alive and killing you when your re-loading. 
 A couple of different weapons with more punch would have been good but again, it keeps the action 
 alive if you have to plan your attacks to make sure you kill instead of injure. The different classes 
 are inspirational in the way the Elf can rejuvinate health, the Troll can stand more attacks etc. 
 It really changes how you play the game depending on your class and although subtle does impact 
 on the type of gameplay depending on who you are. The Magic and Tech are what makes this game really 
 stand out tho. The ability to teleport, bring back the dead, fly through the air to higher buildings, 
 turn into smoke and escape a massacre.... all add new dimensions to both attack, defense and surviving. 
 Sometimes you notice an enemy closing in on a flag, so you teleport in and kill them quickly. Sometimes 
 they are making their way with the flag to the extraction point, so you can seal off the exits 
 with the Strangle Spell to slow them down and give your team valuable seconds to re-group. In one 
 situation i witnessed last night, an enemy Linage was cornered inside a room with 3 RNA Elves all 
 rushing into him firing SMG..... any other game he would have a 0% survival rate and game over, 
 but not in Shadowrun..... with a lot of player skill and quick thinking, as he saw them rushing 
 at him shooting him close to death, he dropped a frag grenade at his feet and then when the 3 Elves 
 were within inches of him, he teleported across the other side of the room and left the frag grenade 
 to kill the 3 Elves. 3 against 1 in a small room and he overcome overwhelming odds not by fighting, 
 but by clever use of Magic and Tech. This sort of variety really can change and shape each game. 
 Another part of the changing gameplay is the extra build up of abilities through money. At the 
 start, only a few have chosen a Magic spell or Tech ability, others choose better weaponry which 
 causes most teams to be slower moving and less well armed as a whole. This means the ability to 
 move around freely, picking off single targets is the order of play. A couple of rounds later and 
 with everyone now purchasing several Magic/Tech abilities and all tooled up with the better weapons, 
 it changes the game into a fragfest where teamplay really comes into it. Instead of freely moving 
 about killing at a distance, your are finding you should be pairing up with 1 or 2 other teammates 
 (safety in numbers) and attack with force and speed. Also having to be aware that they enemy will 
 do the same and may use teleport to suprise your team.
  
  Overall, if you get into a team that uses a bit of strategy to their games, a bit of covering each 
 others backs and thinking of their actions, rather than blindly running about at will just trying 
 to kill people, your going to find a richly rewarding experience and a lot of Wins to your name. 
 This game isnt about the honour of getting the most kills..... its the honour of working as a team 
 to stop the enemy and the team wins. So if you feel the need to be the sniper covering your friends 
 movement, or the Troll that stands back at the exit point just in case the enemy gain the flag 
 then it all pays off better than a group of new players that just rush about killing anything that 
 moves. The Connection times to the games were at first VERY slow. It was taking up to 2 or 3 minutes 
 to connect to a game which was slightly painful, but recently these have dropped to about 40 seconds 
 so hopefully as more people buy the game and play the better it will get. Also, when your playing 
 the game, they game will still keep you connected even if the server goes down or similar incident. 
 So it just reloads a new map and carries on. It has only once in 3 nights of play dropped me out 
 and forced me to find a new connection meaning another 2 minute wait. Be patient and once your 
 in the game it is better.
  
  The online play itself when connected seemed for the most part very fast and very little slowdown 
 or jerkiness. And the playing against PC players is unnoticable, with no obvious advantages for 
 either PC or 360 player. The only times that you get slow loading between matches is when a new 
 player joins or it is syncing but usually it only adds about 10 seconds to the very short few seconds 
 loading time between each match and is very bearable. Even when these things happen it displays 
 it on screen to let you know why it is slow so you can sympathise a bit for having to wait a few 
 extra seconds.
  The number of players in a game ranges from 8 to 16 (4 a side - 8 a side) which compared to a lot 
 of games is very few. But the lack of players on each side is a very good feeling. The maps are 
 not huge (not to the scale of Battlefield 2) and the fact that its not a good idea to die cos of 
 the lack of respawning it makes people think more about their movement and actions. It also makes 
 it a more strategic battle rather than a gung-ho one that nearly always meets with failure! In 
 fact, when you get to the later rounds and everyone is tooled up with Weapons and abilities, sometimes 
 16 players seems too many and people are dying everywhere with little understanding as to why. 
 Some will love that rush of adrenaline in battle, others will shy away wanting to survive and play 
 a little longer. But overall 16 player max seems to be more than enough on the size of these maps. 
 The Achievements are varied from KILL 100 ELVES, to 360 PLAYER RESSURECTS A VISTA PLAYER, and a 
 few secret ones that wont reveal until you achieve them. This gives you plenty of rewards to enjoy 
 from playing but a downside to it is that there seems to be no leaderboard or statistics page telling 
 you how many games played, kills etc, so no way of knowing how many more Elf kills or Troll Kills 
 you have to do to get to an achievement. There seems an abundance of Stats after each match round 
 (so many you dont get chance to see them, about 6 pages from Kills, to Ressurects, down to number 
 of shots fired, number of hits, damage ratios etc) and this is good, but it only lasts for each 
 game round and there is no permanent PROFILE page to let you see how your doing overall in your 
 Shadowrun Career. This is a HUGE let down that is sadly lacking. One of the reasons I racked up 
 300+ hours on Battlefield 2 was because I had leaderboards to climb up, Kills to add to overall, 
 etc. But there is no incentive like that with Shadowrun. There are no personal goals to set or 
 be proud off, instead merely waiting for a achievement to suddenly appear telling you that you 
 achieved something. So this brings Shadowrun down to a pick up and play game where you try to achieve 
 results in the match your playing and once its over, you dont care about it or what effect it has 
 had on your Shadowrun Career. If you can get an achievement for killing 100 Trolls, and it is counting 
 these kills to gain the achievement.... then why oh why not just give us a running scoreboard to 
 tell us how we are doing.
  
  Single player is basic to say the least. You get a few training missions that are only good for 
 new players to learn how to use the Magic and what they do (which is useful) but after that you 
 wont return to them. There are the opportunities to play Bot matches if you wish but considering 
 this is a multiplayer game overall then chances are your only buying it to play online and have 
 an online connection to play real people. So this feature will rarely get used because no matter 
 how good the Bots are, they are nowhere near as fun or thrilling to play against as real human 
 players. The chances are you will only play a Bot match if the connection to Online Play isnt working 
 and you just HAVE to have the rush of adrenaline fighting them Trolls!!
  
  
  Overall the game is very good and much more worthy of a higher score than Gamespot gave. It does 
 feel a little unpolished, and with the weapons and connection times and the lack of personal statistics, 
 it does feel like they rushed it a couple of months too early to be the first cross platform game. 
 It would be good to have a free update making the stats available, speed up connection times (which 
 seem to be happening now) and it will make this game even better.
  
  I can see myself playing this game for several weeks, maybe racking up 100-200 hours. But without 
 those Stats, i dont think it will ever keep me interested long enough to keep wanting to play and 
 achieve more. Just fun to play as a team kicking ass!! And the playing about with Teleports, Strangle 
 spells, Gliders etc all add so much variety to the teamplay that i doubt anyone will get bored 
 with trying new things or seeing new gameplay ideas for many months to come. Certainly until the 
 next big Multiplayer FPS comes along! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZIROPC360
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:31 am PT
Review:  I am (for the most part) a PC gamer. I love online shooters (most notably, Counter-Strike, and 
 the Starsiege: Tribes series) . Upgrading my computer countless times had started to become much 
 to expensive, so I bought an Xbox 360. Until this game had come out, I had not enjoyed a console 
 game as much as I had enjoyed games on my PC. I'm not saying that Gears of War isn't a great game, 
 it's just that its multiplayer modes are so filled with bugs (not to mention they are not quite 
 so dynamic as far as tactics are concerned) . Shadowrun has brought back that spark that I had once 
 had for online shooters. I am mostly an online player, and even if the game had had a single player 
 mode, I doubt I would have touched much (or any) of it. Most reviewers look at Shadowrun critically. 
 I do not understand this. I would not write a review for a game unless I thought it had been unjustly 
 poorly reviewed. Simply put, this game is amazing. It may not have the graphics of Gears of War, 
 and it may not have all the maps and gametypes of Halo, but I've had exponentially more fun playing 
 Shadowrun than I have had playing either of the aforementioned games. I'm going to be quite blunt 
 here: I couldn't care less whether or not this game misused the Shadowrun license. The innovation 
 that it brings with the added tech and magic is amazing. This makes the gameplay and (from what 
 I've seen) the player base more intelligent. You actually have to think in order to be successful 
 in this game. You have to learn each and every map in order to know where and when and how each 
 ability/race will work best. This is a thinking man's game, and some may be put off by it. The 
 gameplay is amazingly deep. As far as the graphics go - I'll admit, they could be better. The models 
 and maps are crisp, and the framerate is great. It's no Gears of War, but it doesn't pretend to 
 be. It wasn't meant to be amazing graphically. This game was meant for gamers. Gameplay is the 
 most important aspect of a game, and this game delivers in spades. Character animation is good 
 despite what one may hear over the internet. Again, this game is built to be fun, it is not built 
 for realism. Since players can shoot others on ladders, ladder animations were set aside to make 
 this game run smoother for the player. Sound is quite good. I have a 5.1 Bose surround sound system 
 hooked up and the game sounds great on it. I really cannot complain. In fact, I really don't know 
 how the developers could have improved on the sound at all. It just fits.
  
  At first, one may feel that there is a lack of variety in the game and that it is not worth its 
 price. This game is completely worth it - if you are the type of gamer who likes multiplayer shooters. 
 This game offers so much variety in tactics and skills that no match is really ever the same. The 
 maps are quite simple, but one can see that this is simply to enhance the gameplay and not due 
 to a lack of ambition or time. There ARE plenty of maps. The only qualm I really have is that there 
 should be a couple more gametypes; the gametypes offered now are great, though, and are enough 
 for me to enjoy - but others may enjoy more variety. In conclusion, this really is a great game. 
 Graphically it's not stunning- content wise, you know what you're getting into: it's an online 
 shooter. It's fast paced, it's wonderful, and I can see a great future ahead in competitions. The 
 gameplay is SO fun that I would say that it overshadows any of Shadowrun's flaws (and yes, there 
 are some flaws) . Give this game a chance. It is tough, but once you spend some time with it, it 
 could possibly be the most fun you've had playing an online console FPS.
  
  -ZIRO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfectone30
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I believe this game is guilty of 2 things......1) Not adding more modes and 2) Not properly testing 
 there servers before release. 1 is definately forgivable given that the marketplace will sooner 
 or later have some content for Shadowrun.... whether it'll cost you an arm or a leg is to be decided. 
 2 is also forgivable seeing as how any online game in its infant stage will have some burps in 
 the system, though dealing with this child can be unbearable at times. The game can take a significant 
 time to connect to a game, then after waiting the 5-10 minutes you'll join the game only to be 
 greeted with tremendous lag spikes. These spikes make shooting, spell-casting and most importantly 
 having fun impossible, but wait there's more.... after dealing with the horrible lag till the game 
 ends (because you don't wanna wait the 20 minutes to connect to a new game) you will lose connection 
 to the server and be forced through the process anyway.... WOOOO! Soon enough they'll work out the 
 kinks and it'll be smoother sailing i'm sure, though i am seriously hoping that some form of stat-tracking 
 or rank is employed at some point.... i feel that ranks and stats will only further increase the 
 addictiveness of the game. Aside from these gripes, which hopefully will be fixed in updates or 
 possibly expansions the game has major selling points. This game feels very much like the WC3 mod 
 for CS 1.6 and CS: S which makes my mouth water, the whole spell system is very impressive with 
 each spell having a very reasonable and usually effective use. The shooting side of it has all 
 the classics you need for a meaty fps burger Shotty, USP, SMG, Chain gun, Sniper Rifle, Rocket 
 launcher and for the ninja in all of us the katana oh on a sesame seed bun! The amazing gameplay 
 will often make you forget you spent 15 minutes connecting to it, Achievements for it are both 
 easy and difficult to get and more often then not its easy to pick up and play. I say if you love 
 WC3 mod and have a 360 theres no reason why you shouldn't at least rent this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamias13
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I thought shadowrun was a blast to play with the multiplayer being some of the best and fastest 
 paced around. The thing that bugs me is how they can sell this game with a price tag over 20 bucks. 
 I might not even pay that. Its a great game with achievments that make you laugh and perfectly 
 balanced races, but theres just not enough content. Shadowrun also is in need of some work in the 
 area of the game connection. It takes a minimum of 2 minutes on a great connection to find a good 
 game. I also had trouble joining my friends games or having friends join mine. Maybe if in the next 
 few months they release some free upgrades to the game I might consider buying it but until then 
 shadowrun is a definite rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fjackel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I love it, it is a good game, it; s cool and unique, it is like Crackdown and counterstrike with 
 magic, but if you dont have live then you are buying nothing, Gamespot really under estimated this 
 game alot, but if you have live then get it, i just got it today played it for about an hour and 
 a half and love it already, But do not listen to Gamespot's review on this game look at the gamers 
 reviews and it will prove how good this game really is. So yep get it. get it. get it. get it. 
 get it. GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MVfalcons83
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game seems alot like counterstrike and for anyone who hasn't played counterstrike, counterstrike 
 is amazing. It seems just like counterstrike just with magic which makes the game never get old. 
 I will be playing this game for quite awhile because its just so fun and doesn't get old! Whoever 
 has xbox live has to get this game. Gamespot definetly rated this game too low. The gameplay should 
 atleast be an eight. The graphics could be better but, i have no problem with them. the gameplay 
 is what matters. I'm not saying the graphics are bad i'm saying that they are ok. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylan88941
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  If thats what you go by when you descide to get a game ignore that review. Just look at all the 
 player reviews. anywere from a 8.8 to a 10.0. the only thing wrong with the game that gamespot 
 bashes is that there is no campaign and few maps. First of all when shooters come out they usually 
 ship with ten or eleven maps. so i gueess the 9 (i think thats what it is) is not good enough. 
 Fasa studios even said that the first downladable maps to come out will be free because it shiped 
 wilth few. Other than that, no campaign, who cares. when i buy a FPS i buy it for the online play 
 and rarly play the campaign. As a game though shadow run is amaising. one of my favrites. A good 
 way to compare it to another game would be to the warcraft mod of counterstrike. its fun is lasting. 
 The only thing i didnt like was the fact that they dont sho you your stats. I dont care about leadertbords 
 but i would like to now how many kills and deaths i have ect. but that is ok because GB just announced 
 clan laders so that will satisfy me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bolgard
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  What you'll get out of this game directly relates to what you expect going in. It will be a disappointment 
 to hard core Shadowrun fans in a few respects; namely that it's not an RPG, and a few significant 
 liberties have been taken with the canon and license. This may pose a problem for dyed-in-the-wool 
 fans of the license.
  
  Perhaps it is a game best served to those who know (or care) little about the minutia of the Shadowrun 
 universe, but are instead intrigued by the setting, and enjoy a solid FPS experience. On the latter, 
 Shadowrun delivers in spades.
  
  The the major reviews have covered the concept of the game, how it's counter-strike-esque in nature, 
 and how it adds a unique twist to the standard FPS experience with special abilities players can 
 assign to various buttons on their controller/keyboard that allow them to see through walls, operate 
 a glider, teleport horizontally and vertically, use a force push against their foes, turn into 
 transparent smoke, and deflect weapons fire with a katana, among other things. This new twist is 
 where the game shines and where its longevity can be seen. Shadowrun has been hit by its critics 
 for only shipping with 9 maps and a scant amount of gameplay modes. This is a fair critique. I 
 would have liked to have seen more maps and variety in game modes. Plus, $60 USD can be a formidable 
 price for many people (myself included) . That said, Shadowrun is simply *FUN*. It's a truly enjoyable 
 game, especially when all of the various crazy abilities come together with the players, creating 
 some truly off-the-wall situations. Some have argued that the graphics are lacking, which is a 
 claim I don't understand at all. They are gorgeous, and the frame rate is smooth as silk. While 
 the game may have a few rough edges, it is a work that suffers more from being misunderstood than 
 from having any sort of egregious flaw in its design.
  
  It's just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocketstmac001
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, the fighting and magic are fine, but if something that could have made this game a lot better 
 would be more maps and more game types. Plus the ability to melee could have been useful. Another 
 thing that the game could have had could have been a campaign mode. There are many ideas in multiplayer 
 that could have been interesting to use in campaign like spying missions and being able to choose 
 which side you would like to be on, like in the starwars game (light or dark side as apposed to 
 liniage and RNA) . But still the online play was really addictive and makes up alot for this game. 
 If shadowrun had a campaign made, it really would have brought out the potential of this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Springfield09
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  While lacking in content, Shadowrun emerges as an exciting and fast-paced shooter for casual and 
 hardcore gamers alike! It's just what the 360 has needed in this dry-spell of first-person shooters. 
 Though there are'nt many maps or game modes it's gameplay easily makes up for it.
  
  Now that you have a little idea of what's going on here let's move on to specifics:
  
  Don't 
 worry, the gameplay section is the only long part.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Masterpiece. Absolutely infallible. FasaStudios (they made Shadowrun) should be seen as astronauts 
 to it's contemporaries. Let me shed a little light on what I'm talking about here.
  
  Essence is the main power source when it comes to using abilities. Each ability requires a certain 
 amount of essence to activate, depending on which race your using and what ability your using.
 
  
  Before each match begins each player chooses one of four races (including: Humans, Elves, Trolls 
 and Dwarves) . Each one having special abilities. HUMANS have more money and are more suited to 
 use technology (translation: they aren't affected by the draw backs in essence the others suffer 
 when using tech) . They are basically the middle-ground of the group, not accelling in any sort 
 of profession in particular.
  
  ELVES are quicker and more agile. However they are also much weaker, they compensate by having 
 the ability to regain health. Health regeneration also requires essence, which they've plenty.
 
  
  TROLLS are big, strong and oogly. They can take a lot of damage by sprouting spikes in their back. 
 These spikes require essence, something Trolls don't have a lot of. They can also lug around heavier 
 weapons other races might have trouble with.
  
  DWARVES are short and are suprisingly well acquitted from taking damage (i. e. they can survive 
 a headshot) . They have an abundance of essence but they regain it slowly so they must absorb it 
 from other players and spells.
  
  Once you've picked your player you're ready to play.
  
  At the beggining the match you are given a small grace-period in which you can buy things like 
 weapons, technology and spells. You may also lend your teammates cash within this period.
  
  P. S. You may seem a little wary of the time limit this grace-period has to offer, but fret 
 not, you'll adapt to it sooner or later.
  
  Once you've done this you can go out and earn some money the only way the world knows how, killing 
 people! yay.
  
  Each level has specific game modes that can be played such as Extraction (capture the flag with 
 one flag) , Raid (defend the flag or visa versa) and Attrition (deathmatch, put simply) .
  
  The unfourtunate thing about EACH level is there's only about 9 of them that aren't edited versions.
 
  
  One meager detail is the lack of a campaign. Lack of? It's just not there. It's kind of sad too, 
 there was plenty to be explored.
  
  The final thing I'd like to address is all the little goodies we get to use and be thankful for, 
 amen. When it comes to weaponry it's pretty much standard, shotties, snipers, you name it. But 
 when we get into tech and spells we're talking far from standard.
  
  Things such as barracades (Strangle) , health stations (Tree of Life) and minions (Summon) can materialize 
 with the flick of the wrist. Likewise, upgrades and gadgets can be purchased to better suit your 
 arsenal including aim assists (SmartLink) , nades (they're nades) and flight capabilities (the glider) .
 
  
  But content aside it's truly solid gameplay and I'm sure it's due for some additional content in 
 the marketplace sooner or later.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Nice, as far as graphics take a game. Good articulation on maps and characters alike. Not really 
 testing the abilities of the 360 but still pretty nice on the eyes.
  
  Probably the biggest beef graphics wise is the nonexistent climbing motion. People pretty much 
 stare intently at the ladder and levitate themselves up to the platform, pretty much making the 
 ladder obsolete with the exception of signification.
  
  I'd also like to note GameSpot's beef with the differences between the RNA races and The Lineage 
 races. If I could quote, Also, the different player models look pretty good, but there's absolutely 
 no variety. All Lineage elves look identical, all RNA humans look the same, and so on. Some sort 
 of differentiation would have been nice and I am also big fat doofus head . There's a lot of difference, 
 I believe FasaStudio went out of their way to ensure there was a difference. One example, the Trolls. 
 RNA Trolls are brown. On the flip-side, Lineage Trolls are Cherry Tomato red. I'm not sure how 
 wide the spectrum between red and brown is to you guys but to a lot of people it's pretty far. 
 Then again I'm no Crayola official. A second example is that RNA are tricked out with raid equipment 
 and Lineage are spattered head-to-toe with war paint and tattered rags. Now I don't know about 
 you but it if I saw Ajax from The Warriors standing next to a SWAT Team I wouldn't have to squint 
 my eyes to shoot him.
  
  SOUND:
  
  Where the game kind of falls short. Guns sound fine but whenever I cast a spell I feel like I stepped 
 through a door on the starship Enterprise. And why the hell does it sound like a Care Bear Stare 
 when I get close to a Tree of Life?
  
  There's no in-game music and there's no real reason why it shouldn't.
  
  Out of game music 
 is unbareable. It's alot like if someone were scratching the Ratchet &amp; Clank soundtrack with 
 Bugles at the end of their fingertips.
  
  I've honestly heard better sounds on a Michael Buble album.
  
  VALUE:
  
  Great buy. Bottom-line. 
 Maybe not worth it's $60 price tag, but far too valuable to just rent. Buy it, play it, shelve 
 it and play it over the droughts. It's certainly worth it.
  
  TILT:
  I loved it. 9.5 in my mind.
  
  OTHERS:
  The servers are like an angsty teenaged girl. Good 
 luck staying in a game longer than one match if that. And by that I mean getting really, really 
 frustrated at the game freezing over people joining and just turning off the Xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cammonag
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a online multiplayer game where the player is one of four races (elf, troll, human or 
 dwarf) and you are on one of two teams , lineage or RNA Corp. This is a first person shooter game 
 which resembles counterstrike in a few ways but with also magic . Teleporting behind someone and 
 stabbing them with a katana is pretty cool!
  However there are downsides like the fact there is no storyline or no single player modes except 
 bot matches. Also there is a huge problem with lag and the matchmaking does remind me of Halo but 
 matches can be ruined by lag lasting up to 10 minutes ! Has happened to me quite a few times . 
 They worked on this game for a long time but still have major issues that they need to sort out 
 .The game is not very difficult to play as you can revive your teammates and can get minions to 
 kill enemies for you ! This is a very good game with faults basically everyone should get this 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan-666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  it i have written for my review deck everyone should buy this game!!!!
  
  this is a must have master piece that should not be missed exspecially if you have xbox live!!!!! 
 the upgrades system is a marvel and the gameplay is third only too halo and gears!!! graphically 
 the game is stunning and the maps are HUGE!!!!!! which makes the 16 player limit seem petty and 
 small!!! (which isnt entirely a bad thing!!!!) the only problem with the game is the servers which 
 make the game take ages to load which is rely annoying as if you want a quick game you end up playing 
 with the same people all day long!!! which can get extremely boring!!! but this is the only problem 
 with the game and it is only minimal and i am sure that microsoft will fix this problem!!! (my fingers 
 are crossed!!!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FMunro3251
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a first person shooter on the Xbox 360 and Windows Vista PCs. Shadowrun isn't like 
 most online FPS games, it adds a new and fresh feel to a popular genre. -------------
  
  Shadowrun is a typical FPS in some ways, but adds new features that make it stand out from the 
 crowd. The player is allowed to purchase their weapons that are typical to an FPS such as a sub 
 machine gun, sniper rifle, rocket launcher, rifle, and even a mini gun or a katana. The additions 
 that make the game stand out are being able to purchase magic as well as these weapons. These spells 
 allow the player to do certain things within the game. If you purchase teleport, then you can move 
 through walls, the floor, and even jump up through the ceiling to find a vantage point on a roof. 
 Another spell is strangle, which is fun to use. The player will throw an object that will cause 
 spikes to appear and can injure or even kill nearby enemies and also can be used as a defensive 
 tactic to stop an enemy from going a certain way. Other spells include reserect that will revive 
 a fallen ally, tree of life that will create a tree that will heal any players near it, smoke which 
 will make the player turn almost invisible, making them unable to attack but also unable to be 
 injured, gust can be used to push enemies away from you or even off of a high height and cause 
 them to die. These spells do not come free, they will drain essence. Essence is like the players 
 mana for each spell.
  
  As well as being able to purchase magic, players can buy tech. Tech is similar to the spells, but 
 they take up slots needed to use them. Tech includes a glider that will allow the player to avoid 
 falling from high heights and can let them jump and get to a new area, wired reflexes that will 
 make the player fast for a short period of time at the expense of draining a small amount of health, 
 an ability to find enemies on the map, and a screen that will allow the player to lock onto enemies 
 and avoid friendly fire.
  
  Each player must select their race before each game, these are classified as humans, elves, dwarves, 
 and trolls. Each of these has their own unique abilties and attributes. For example an human will 
 be balanced and not better or worse than another race and are allowed $500 to purchase weapons 
 or magic. An elf will move faster than the other races and can regenerate health, but they cannot 
 take as much damage as other races. Dwarves have the most essence and can drain essence from other 
 players, but they cannot regain essence as fast as a human or elf can. The troll is a walking tank, 
 they can take large amounts of damage and will move the same speed with all weapons. Trolls however 
 do not have alot of essence and will use it to take large amounts of damage.
  
  The game offers only three gameplay modes that are all pretty much similar. There is always an 
 artifact, which is pretty much a flag. In some rounds both teams or one team must capture the artifact 
 and return it to an extraction point to win. One mode, Attrition, is like deathmatch. Each team 
 can grab the artifact to show where the enemies are located, but it is not needed to win the match 
 (but will allow the team who is holding it to win, if the time expires) . The maps are very detailed 
 and different from most maps in online shooters. There is one map that has four different levels 
 that are seperated by clouds. There are only nine maps offered so far though, but stay fresh. Shadowrun 
 is also the first online game to offer Xbox 360 players and Windows Vista players to play online 
 together. Some people may think that the PC players have an advantage, but they really don't. I 
 have played it a few different games with PC users and they did not do any better or worse than 
 the players on the 360.
  
  Overall Shadowrun is a great online multiplayer game experience that adds fresh and innovative 
 features to the FPS genre. There is not however any single player at all and this may cause some 
 people to be turned away from the game, but the game offers everything it needs online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abrowner
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  I have only recently come across Shadowrun last week, in a magazine. I wasnt particularly impressed 
 but due to being very bored (broken leg) and the 360s lack of games in the past weeks, decided 
 to give it a go. I have to say that after reading Gamespots own review I felt disheartened but 
 never the less I bought and put it in the disc drive.
  
  The single player consists of only a few chapters in which you play various races and learn the 
 basics of the game. A nice touch is that the loading screens give some information about the factions 
 and story of Shadowrun. In the chapters themselves you learn about the spells, tech and weaponry 
 via the typical military general voice that you hear in so many games which annoyed me slightly. 
 The graphics are what I would phrase as OK, not amazing but not shoddy either. It sounds fairly 
 good, what with the chaos that some rounds degenerate into. Trying to get on a online games takes 
 stupidly long but once your there its fun. Before purchasing the game I noticed other gamers comments 
 stating NOT TO BELIEVE GAMESPOT and I though that they were being amateurish, but on playing 
 the game itself I realised their review wasnt accurate and I think that the review couldve been 
 done better.
  However the big flaw in the game is its lack of content. Yeah alright, theres a load to do in 
 the multiplayer but outside of that theres nothing. No customization, no single player campaign. 
 So overall I would say that this is a extremely addictive game but the lack of content and value 
 for money aspect arent good and I for one will soon be getting bored of this game. Rent it first, 
 then buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donalbane
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is an online only shooter in which Tolkien-esque fantasy elements coexist alongside futuristic 
 performance-enhancing technology. Although based off of the original FASA pencil and paper game 
 from the 80's, this game is by no means an attempt to accurately recreate the original role playing 
 experience (it occurs before the events of the original game,) and instead borrows some elements 
 from the Shadowrun universe to create an online experience that is as unique as it is deep. The 
 game modes are all built around the Counterstrike model, where players play several rounds in a 
 game type called extraction, which is essentially capture the flag (or artifact, as it is refered 
 to in Shadowrun,) and return it to their base. Other game modes include team death match (called 
 Attrition) in which downed friendlies can be ressurected more than usual, and a mode where one 
 side defends the artifact while other try to steal it and return to their base. Players recieve 
 a set amount of money each round to spend on upgrades for their character, and also gain special 
 bonuses (or penalites) depending on how much they contribute to the team. Shoot a friendly, and 
 you will pay for it... literally. The maps are gorgeous, well designed and varied in appearance, 
 although there are only around 9 of them. Online play is relatively lag free, and matchmaking seems 
 to work well, although the game does crash every now and then. Shadowrun supports up to 16 players, 
 and thankfully, most people have headsets and use them to plan strategies. In fact, communication 
 has rarely been so essential to an online game due to the inherent reliance players will feel toward 
 their team mates with different yet complimentary abilites. Vista and Xbox 360 players can play 
 together, but rest assured most of the people online are running Shadowrun on the 360. Neither 
 Vista nor 360 players appear to have any advantage, which could have been crippling were it not 
 superbly balanced.
  
  There is an emphasis on teamwork and cooperation in Shadowrun that feels more complex than the 
 majority of team based FPS games. This complexity isn't a bad thing, though. There is a steep learning 
 curve, but once it is crested, the player will be quick-casting abilties like a pro after a few 
 hours. This game is not meant to be played Rambo style as is the case with many so-called team-based 
 shooters, but rather works best when playing with a group of friends who discuss strategy and coordinate 
 their abilities to support one another. Pick up games are also enjoyable, but even when playing 
 with strangers, the team that talks the most and helps one another is generally the team that will 
 triumph.
  
  Shadowrun's strength lies in it's wide variety of possible play styles the player can create by 
 mixing and matching abilities, equipment, and racical types. The number of potential character 
 builds and strategies are practially endless, and every character build brings with it particular 
 strenghs and weaknesses that must be considered in order to help your team succeed. It's like an 
 elaborate game of rock-paper-scissors that is perfectly balanced and allows players to get creative 
 with how they want to go about contributing to their team and defeating the common enemy.
  
  There are four races, each with their own characteristics. Elves can heal themselves and are 
 faster than the rest but have the least amount of health. Trolls are tough but slow, Dwarves drain 
 magic from other players and the environment, can survive headshots, but generate magic very slowly. 
 Finally humans have more cash to spend on gear and suffer no magical penalties from using technology, 
 but have no real racial advantages or disadvantages. Magic can be cast at the expense of a characters 
 essence, a resource that the players regenerate at a rate dependant on their race. Shadowruns magical 
 abilities are not the standard fantasy fare. There aren't fireballs or lightning spells in Shadowrun, 
 for example. Instead, magical abilites are used primarily for healing and defense, (although some 
 of them preform double duty as tools to supplament an attack.) Gust behaves much like force push 
 in the Jedi Knight games. Strangle is a magic-draining spell that can stop enemies dead in their 
 tracks and can be used to restrict enemy movement at choke points. Summon summons a magical demon 
 that can either be sent to hunt down an enemy or assigned to gaurd a particular area. Ressurect 
 brings back an team mate, but limits your magic pool. Tree of life creates a tree that emits healing 
 energy and provides cover. Smoke allows the user to become impervious to most damage, but the player 
 is unable to attack. Telelport allows players to pass through walls and other barriers.
  
  The technology is similarly defensive in nature. Most races must spend some of their available 
 essence in order to equip various tech, but humans enjoy tech use without penalty. All players 
 begin the match with two grenades, and players can also buy additional grenades that absorb all 
 nearby magic, which can destroy magical defenses and prohibit hostiles from casting any magic when 
 nearby. In addition to the grenades, there is some more unorthodox gear available to buy. Smartlink 
 makes it impossible for a player to shoot friendlies, allows them to zoom in with any gun, and 
 increases accuracy, but other players can see it's targeting laser, making them easy to spot. Enhanced 
 vision allows players to see through wall for a short time. Boosted Reflexes work passively and 
 actively. When equiped, players will move slightly faster and deflect some enemy fire while wielding 
 the katana. When activated users spend a small amount of health for a quick getaway. Glider allows 
 players to jump and remain in the air for a short time.
  
  Finally, the weapons in Shadowrun are probably the most conventional aspect, and will be instantly 
 familiar to anyone who has spent time with an FPS in recent years. Each weapon has a weight that 
 will effect player movement, unless that player happens to be a Troll, who suffers no such penalty. 
 There is the default pistol, which every player begins the game with. The Shotgun is good for close 
 quarters fights, the SMG for medium-range encounters, and the Rifle for long range showdowns. There 
 is a powerful Sniper rifle with 2 levels of zoom, and a heavy minigun that is best utilized by 
 already sluggish Dwarves and Trolls. The Rocket Launcher, which is pricey and therfore only available 
 at the later stages of a match, can destroy an area with it's large blast radius. Finally, we come 
 to the katana, which is actually one of the more popular weapons in the game. This traditional 
 Japanese sword not only allows players to run at full speed, it can take down enemies caught unaware 
 (represented by a '?' above their head) with one fatal blow.
  
  Shadowrun is a nuanced game that offers freedom to create your own play style on a level far beyond 
 the current standard online FPS games. This is both it's greatest strengh and for some it's main 
 weakness. It's not a casual game, instead catering to hardcore gamers looking for the depth of 
 gameplay choices afforded by Shadowrun's robust character customization options. It is easily recommendable 
 to anyone who has enjoyed Counterstrike, Deus Ex, Jedi Knight, or team-based multiplayer games 
 in general.
  
  The community seems really torn on this game... some (mostly those who read reviews and make up 
 their minds about games without experiencing them first hand, or those who don't take the time 
 to crest the learning curve) say it's a ripoff and call it 'half a game,' while some swear it's 
 the best online 360 game available currently and well worth the money. I am certainly in the latter 
 camp... and I applaud Shadowrun for providing 360 and Vista users with an online game that combines 
 a fresh take on FPS gameplay conventions with cross platform play. Shadowrun allows you to do things 
 in an online game that you have never been able to do before against human opponents. I recommend 
 that everyone intested in FPS multiplayer games try the demo and see if they appreciate it's deep 
 gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  The Good: Fast paced, and fun gameplay; nice visual effects; good level design; play against windows 
 vista players.
  
  The Bad: Not enough maps or game types; feels unfinished; complete waste of the Shadowrun license.
 
  
  This is probably the hardest review Ive written. Im a huge fan of the Shadowrun pen and paper 
 game, and have been playing since the early 90s. Therefore, I was thrilled when it was announced 
 FASA Studios was making a new Shadowrun game. My immediate thought was that it would be an RPG 
 like the old SNES and Genisis games. Then my heart sank when I learned it was going to be an online 
 only FPS.
  
  Not only that, but the devs rewrote the canon of the SR universe to suit the needs of the game. 
 I cant begin to explain how much this pissed me off. For those of you who arent familiar with 
 the Shadowrun IP, this probably wont matter much. But it also means that fans of the IP are going 
 to feel alienated, and that further limits the audience for a game thats trying to find its niche.
 
  
  Shadowrun takes place in our near future where magic has returned to a high tech world. Picture 
 the high-tech dystopian world of Bladerunner with the magic and creatures of Dungeons &amp; Dragons. 
 Thats basically what the game world is like. I wont bother to mention any specifics as the rich 
 game world of the PnP game is not present in this title.
  
  In fact, many of the elements that make Shadowrun unique are not present in this game at all. No 
 decking or rigging. No dragons or other creatures beyond the elves, dwarfs, and trolls. Orks are 
 missing altogether. There arent even any actual Shadowruns. Instead, the game focuses on a conflict 
 between the corporation RNA and the rebel group Lineage. Both of which were made up for this game. 
 Shadowrun is a fun game in its own way, but its a complete waste of the license. This is like 
 buying the rights to make a Star Wars game, and making a R2D2 puzzle game. It would have been better 
 if the devs made their own IP for this game instead of tarnishing Shadowrun.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Shadowrun does offer some cool elements that make it stand out among the crowded FPS market. 
 The game plays a lot like Counter Strike. Before the match begins, you can choose which team to 
 play for, and what race you want to be. Race has a big impact on how you play the game. Humans 
 get more starting money, and are the most balanced. Elves are the fastest, can regenerate health 
 when not moving, but also have the lowest total health. Trolls are the tanks of Shadowrun. They 
 are the strongest race, and can kill almost anyone in one or two hits with a katana. Their skin 
 hardens to lessen damage taken, but theyre slow. Finally, the dwarfs are designed for close combat. 
 They have the most health, can survive a head shot, and can absorb essence from other players. 
 To offset this, they regenerate essence very slowly when not absorbing.
  
  Before each round there is a small window in which to buy upgrades using money earned from previous 
 rounds. You get more money from killing other players, and from helping your team. You can buy 
 new weapons, magic spells, and tech upgrades. All of which are fun to use, but the catch is that 
 you can only have 3 equipped at any time. For example, you can buy teleport, which lets you teleport 
 through walls, ceilings, and floors. Tree of Life lets you create a tree to heal anyone standing 
 near it. Smoke turns your character into smoke to avoid damage, but makes you vulnerable to another 
 magic spell: gust. Resurrection does exactly that, and allows you to bring dead teammates back 
 to life. The downside is that it ties up some of your essence to do this. And if you die, the people 
 you resurrected will slowly bleed out.
  
  The tech upgrades are also just as fun to use. Enhanced vision lets you see through walls. Smartlink 
 gives you a zoom on any weapon, makes your shots more accurate, and prevents friendly fire. Wired 
 reflexes make everything you do faster, and allow you to block some incoming fire with a katana. 
 The weapons are fairly standard and include your usual pistol, SMG, shotgun, etc. But one new addition 
 is a katana for melee attacks. You can also use the katana to mortally wound another player that 
 hasnt spotted you. Effectively ensuring their quick death, unless they are resurrected.
  
  There are many more skills beyond the ones I have listed here. By now, youre probably thinking 
 of all the possibilities of using these skills together. The gameplay is fast paced, and fun despite 
 not sticking to the canon of the IP. But what holds the game back is the lack of gameplay modes 
 and levels.
  
  There are only about 9 levels to choose from, and only 3 game types. The game types are all based 
 around capturing the artifact, which is Shadowruns version of a flag. In the Raid game, Lineage 
 must capture the artifact, and take it to the exit point. RNA is on defense in this mode. Extraction 
 is a two-way CTF mode, where the artifact is placed in the center of the map, and each team must 
 get it back to their exit point. Finally, theres attrition, which is a team death match.
  
  Although the levels are well designed, and fun to play in, they tend to get old after a while. 
 It just makes me wish there were more levels to play in, or game types to keep the fun gameplay 
 going.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Visually, Shadowrun is good, but not great. The spell effects, and environments look great. I was 
 really impressed when summoning a minion. The levels also have nice visual touches to them, and 
 help pull you into the game. But on the downside the characters have missing animations. For example, 
 when climbing a ladder, the avatars lock into their standing animation instead of showing movement 
 to climb the ladder. I also encountered a bug when trying to use a magic spell, and firing a weapon 
 right after. The casting animation got stuck, which didnt allow me to cast any other spells for 
 about 20 seconds. The rag-doll physics are also kind of odd. Youll frequently see dead players 
 laying in awkward positions that dont look natural. The textures also have a tendency to get pixilated 
 when up close. In addition the characters all look the same. Theres no avatar customization, so 
 all RNA trolls look the same, all Lineage elves look the same, etc. There are some nice touches 
 to the visuals, but at the same time there are some problems.
  
  SOUND
  
  This is another mixed area. Theres no in-game music, and the only voice-over is the announcer 
 that lets you know when a round has been won. The sound effects sound good, but theyre pretty 
 much your standard gunshots. By far the best sound effect in the game is the screech that comes 
 from when you summon a minion. Its truly awe inspiring the first time you do it.
  
  VALUE
  
  The lasting value, in fact the only value, for Shadowrun is the multi-player. How 
 long that will last is dependant on the player. If online shooters are your thing, then youll 
 likely have a new addiction until Halo 3 comes out. But since theres no single player other than 
 bot matches, this severely limits the number of players that are going to be interested in this 
 title.
  
  You can play matches with windows vista players, and its well balanced so that you cant tell 
 whos playing on a 360, and whos on a PC. However, the match making system on the 360 isnt that 
 well designed. Windows Vista players also have dedicated servers, where 360 players do not.
  
  The achievements are well balanced, and some of them are actually fun. For example one achievement 
 is to tea-bag a player you killed that already has the achievement. Another one is to get the flag 
 to the exit point while bleeding out.
  
  Shadowrun is fun in its own right, but for everything it does well, theres something else holding 
 it back. SR just feels like a project that was rushed to get it out before Halo 3. Yet, I cant 
 help but feel how great this game could have been if they had delayed it another year. They could 
 have made changes to make it fit in with the canon, and added all kinds of new game types and features.
 
  
  Shadowrun is a game without an audience. The devs pretty much guaranteed that long time fans of 
 the Shadowrun IP wont like this game. Plus in an already over-crowded FPS genre, its going to 
 be hard for SR to find a place to call home. More than likely it will become a quick fix for FPS 
 junkies until Halo 3 launches in a couple months. After that it will probably be quickly forgotten. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donjoelio23
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun was one of the games I was seriously looking forward to as Im sure many of you where. 
 I had heard that there was to be a brief single player campaign and there was in the form of six 
 training exercises and bot matches. Even the story and setting of the game seemed pointless when 
 you cant relate to it. Basically this game is just for multi player, if you dont have a gold account 
 then do not bother with this game. The powers are what makes the game unique. The training missions 
 give a run down of how to use the powers and what races will benefit from their particular use. 
 You would think that these would play some sort of tactical part but at the moment it seems that 
 nobody pays attention to their team mates and plays every man for himself (that is unless your 
 playing with friends) . While multiplayer matches can be fun, if you play more than a few games 
 in a row, you being to realise just how small and lacking in content this game is.
  In conclusion I think the game will get better with time, as more users and more maps etc become 
 part of the game. I think the gamespot review is about right, the game has potential but at the 
 minute it has not fully surfaced 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahughs007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Well, let me start by saying that initially I was a dissapointed when I heard that ShadowRun was 
 going to be a FPS and not an RPG. That being said I had serious doubts, and quite litteraly had 
 no plans on ever purchasing the game. I even thought that the teleporting seemed gimicky, with 
 the possibility of making me nauseated. I am happy to say I was wrong about everything. After the 
 game came out, a friend of mine simply messaged me saying it 'Shadowrun is freakin awesome!' So, 
 i looked at the player reviews, many of which agreed. They compared it to Counterstrike, which 
 really intruiged me, because I have been a huge CS fan for many years, so the thought of something 
 breathing new life into that concept was very interesting.
  
  I went out and purchased the game, and have been playing it for several days straight. Even though 
 it is only loosely based on ShadowRun, I can't escape the feeling, like I'm trying to power up 
 in the 'Caryards' (for those of you who remember the original SR) but in the first person. The 
 fact that this game was given such a poor review by the official Gamespot reviewer is kind of sad. 
 Criticizing it's ammount of maps, seems like a shallow reason to give a game a permanent low score. 
 I have absolutely no doubt that they will be releasing more maps, and the ones that they do have 
 are incredibly fun.
  
  The bottom line here is this: If you want a fun multi-player, with some Very innovated ideas and 
 RPG elements, this is the game for you. If you hated CounterStrike - don't bother. If you loved 
 CS give this a try.
  
  The load times are a little long, but well worth it, and the community is really cool. Definately 
 encourages teamwork, I highly recommend this super charged team based action FPS. I will give one 
 cool example of an innovative feature of this game.
  
  When you are playing the game, and see an enemy, you can say press 'up' on the 'D' pad. The game 
 itself will have a voice that tells everyone 'elf spotted by the elevator' and then everyone will 
 have a symbol of an eye on their screen, if they look in the direction of the elevator. The same 
 applies for calling for backup etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenderBR9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game has revived my interest in first person shooters. The game itself is well developed and 
 simply creates a fun enviroment. The community is great and team work is there which had been missing 
 from several other recent shooters. The maps are fun and everything is well balanced. Hopefully 
 though they will take advantage of the downloadable content often though. The matches always seem 
 to get intense and by the end you usually find yourself jumping up and down with joy or crying 
 out why!? Aiming and movement seem natural and the button layout seems just right for the controller. 
 The achievements range from easy to hard which is the way it needs to be. Overall this is a great 
 game, one that is hard to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cropentax
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  New stuff we haven't seen in multi player it is ambitious and creative. No solo campaign like we 
 are supposed to ignore the whole story line and only play multi player, it is more of a beta testing 
 than a whole game nice though online. Its graphics are good and the fact we see the 360 and vista 
 come together but i think a solo campaign was necessary. Teleporting and gliding are good and come 
 in handy while in combat. The kat ana sword also is a fresh idea in online matches and the different 
 races. Good game but only online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usemeup
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a really fun game. Its got great multiplayer action and well thats all it has actually. 
 I think the game would be more appealing with a campaign instead of just solo play with bots. The 
 bots are okay though, sometimes they are amazing and kill you with pistol in like 2 shots and other 
 times they grab the artifact (flag) and jump into a wall over and over again for the rest of the 
 match. However, the graphics are pretty good, but very limited also. Only one character model per 
 race/faction. This is pretty boring, you would think you could customize your character a little 
 bit. Another thing that bothered me was all the physics and graphics seemed to work until you go 
 up a ladder. There is no animation for this which makes it seem pretty sloppy.
  
  A cool feature if you aren't using a headset is the quick commands, which lets your teammates know 
 where enemies are, if you need a rez, and all the locations you call out will show up on their 
 maps.
  
  Races all seem very well balanced, although almost everyone is an Elf. But thats not to say you 
 cant have as much fun with a troll, human, or dwarf.
  
  Shadowrun is an amazing game, but i don't think it was worth the 60 dollar price tag for how much 
 game you got. If it was 30-40 dollars i would have given it a 9.5. Maybe in the distant future 
 i can take this back if they add another race (orks) and a lot more maps, perhaps a campaign since 
 they tell us a briefing of the storyline (which is interesting) but they don't build upon it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenSr
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun : (
  
  I'm pretty disappointed in it. I bought the game because I thought there was a single player mode. 
 At least that is what I was lead to believe. I don't consider 6 chapters ( which you get an achievement 
 for completing each) of training, a true single player mode. I mean I've come to believe that when 
 single player mode is in a game that there is a story to it. Like GRAW 2, you have your training 
 then story mode following. Think of Chromehounds training for this game. Learning what each character 
 can do. I'm OK with the graphics
  
  The maps well I believe there are 4 main areas and some are broken up to give a total of 9 maps 
 to play on. There e are 3 different game modes 1) Attrition: Kind of like team death match, however 
 if you're still alive with all of your team mates dead and you're holding the artifact, you can 
 win the game for your team. 2) Extraction: This one is like capture the flag, you can also win 
 by eliminating everyone on the other team. 3) Raid: This is an attach and defend. RNA always defends 
 and Lineages always attacks. Lineage has to steal the artifact and take it to the designated location 
 or kill all the RNAs. RNAs must defend the artifact or kill all the Lineage in the allotted time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-ate-9
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  It is sad to see Shadowrun getting punished by a critic because it doesn't follow the conventional 
 routine of clone FPS games (of which there are far too many) . To say that Shadowrun lacks content 
 is a gross misinterpretation of what the game has to offer. Sure you can see all the maps in a 
 couple of hours but it will take you much, much longer to properly explore them all and find several 
 effective strategies. The Gamespot review is like someone going into a small library and looking 
 around and saying I've seen all the books in a few minutes, 6.9 that was fair, I'm outa here. A 
 very shallow treatment of something that has masses of content and depth if you look into it, and 
 in Shadowrun the content is all in the gameplay. It is so satisfying to be able to run into a factory, 
 give a team mate covering fire, teleport backwards through a wall, glide up into the sky and take 
 a sniping position on a tower. Turn on improved senses to find enemies by infrared and snipe away 
 and when you're discovered, teleport through the floor to make a back route escape while temporarily 
 invisible and invulnerable! The way the combinations of what race you choose, what weapons, tech 
 and magic you buy and your personal strategy make Shadowrun a really intricately constructed game. 
 Everything is carefully balanced and there are many different approaches to try. The game also 
 places an emphasis on teamwork and rewards cooperative play which is a great counter-measure to 
 the kind of misanphropic behavior that can be found in FPS games. So what initially might seem 
 like a game short on content actually has thousands of options to explore. The content isn't in 
 a menu screen where it can be selected. The content is in your imagination and creativity and the 
 game rewards you for actively thinking about what you are doing. There is a great sense of potential 
 here that makes other more conventional FPS titles seem outmoded. This makes Shadowrun a great 
 game that deserves a strong community which is why I think it is important for people to igonre 
 the Gamespot review and check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LORDGRUNTY11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 6:16 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a nice change from normal shooters, where instead of you both running in circles and 
 ocasionaly jumping, what will happen in an average fight in shadowrun is you will start to shoot 
 him but then he teleports through a wall and uses a tech to see through the wall to know when ur 
 coming and hit you with a shotgun, or they will instantly plant a tree to give back health and 
 provide cover. There aren't that many maps or weapons but they are all balanced perfectly and there 
 have been no glitches found yet, not even one. Shadowrun doesn't have a singleplayer but definately 
 does make it worth it with its multiplayer, which is also the first game to connect pc and xbox 
 360 gamers together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bnewbolt
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  after reading the press reviews on this I was dissapointed that this game hadn't come up to scratch. 
 I really wanted this game to be great. however the reviews hadn't completely put me off. many of 
 the reviews say that this game plays very much like CS - i love CS - awesome game. even if it is 
 a little shallow, it just means it's easy to pick up and play. so i bought it.
  
  it is fantastic. for my first couple of hours i was totally immersed in the unique gameplay and 
 searching for my optimum balance of race/magic/tech. it does play very much like CS with the loadout 
 screen at the start and the ability to purchase better equip and magic each round.
  
  however, no matter how much i tried i couldn't avoid feeling that the dev on this was reassigned 
 to some other project halfway through - like i said i REALLY wanted to like this game. this game 
 is alot of fun in this 2hrs, and the abilities put a cool twist on things. but (here come my gripes) 
 it shouldn't take an eternity to find a server (admittedly it plays v. well when on them) , the character 
 modelling makes it look bland and uninspired, character animation shouldn't have stopped short 
 of jumping and climbing (you 'float' everywhere!?!) , with such few maps it doesn't lend itself 
 to extended play, the map load screen shouldn't look like it was drawn by my 2yr old , there are 
 other minor niggles but these don't detract from the gameplay/experience in any major way.
  
  i'll dip into this every now and then, holding out for quake wars, haze and halo3. but if you're 
 looking to buy this I would def hold out for the patch, and even then just rent it out to try it. 
 a couple of friends have rented it out and have already eeked out all the gameplay/achievements 
 they wanted from it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sargemat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is what I would call the next counter strike. Sure its not going to be a populer but 
 its one of the most well built and thought out mutliplayer games I have ever played. Both the Xbox 
 360 and PC version are very good and the Live on the PC works very well and the cross platoform 
 play is realy cool as well and I have found that its well balanced. There is a nice set of tutorials 
 at the start that are not only fun you also get Achevements for doing them. This is also the first 
 PC game to have achevements. The powers are split up into magic and tec and add a lot of depth 
 to the game. At the moment there are only to game modes but both are realy good but it would be 
 nice to see a standard death match some time as well. There are over 10 maps each one well designed. 
 Over all this is a great game and work picking up for the 360 or PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  I have to start out by saying I have only played the single-player and have not yet played online. 
 Now that that's out of the way, I can tell you this is one of the funnest shooters I have played 
 in a long time. There may not be a ton of options but what this game has is amazingly fun gameplay.
 
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game shines. If you don't have fun playing this game then you don't 
 know how to play it well. The spells are a perfect addition as are the tech items like the glider. 
 It really adds a lot of options and different levels of strategy to the game. The fun factor is 
 through the roof with this game.
  
  Graphics: It's a nice looking game but there really isn't anything special here.
  
  Audio: 
 I like the ability to communicate with teammates by just pushing the D-pad. It's a really smart 
 addition. Past that the audio is solid on all counts.
  
  Overall I really like this game and I haven't even played the online portion yet (waiting for my 
 dsl modem to show up tomorrow) . It may be light on features but the gameplay more than makes up 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleedingbunny
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Whatever you do dont listen to gamespots bs review about this game. Shadowrun is an amazing fps 
 that combines halo, counter strike, and unreal tournament, all wraped into one awesome game. honestly 
 what keeps a game for lasting a long time its multiplayer. Shaowrun has ok graphics great sound 
 but what sets it appart is its gameplay. it is just a really fun game that anyone would love so 
 if you like magic and guns and fast paced action then this game is for you just dont even mind 
 stupid gamespots review it sucks get this game its awesome. so if you like multiplayer and you 
 just want to have a fun time get this game i recommend to all so get it and get online and start 
 the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  The game plays fluidly, there is a lot of depth and strategy in the online multiplayer matches, 
 and it looks pretty good! The maps do feel a little dated and boring, so they will need to add 
 more maps, which will obviously be done through content updates... Let's hope they don't charge 
 too much! This game is worth playing, I would recommend a rental first though since there's no 
 real single player component outside of training and bots so you have to really enjoy the multiplayer 
 to make it worth a purchase... If you're not into competitive FPS's this is probably not the game 
 for you!
  
  Shadowrun is definitely influenced by some of my favorite multiplayer FPS's like Halo and Counterstrike 
 and it shows. It's a lot of fun, and there's a bonus! You get to play against PC users as well! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtressbro
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a unique game. It combines futuristic FPS action with magic and cool upgrades in a 
 multiplayer squad-based package that is great while it lasts.
  
  Therein lies the problem. The game just doesn't last long. There are not many maps, though the 
 included ones are serviceable. There are only 8 playable avatars, although the four character classes 
 (human, elf, dwarf, and troll) are creative and have their own unique advantages.
  
  Weapons in Shadowrun are standard fare: you have your rifles, machine guns, pistols, rocket launchers, 
 and so on (though one weapon, the Katana, is less standard) . The real cool stuff is the magic and 
 tech upgrades. These include trees that sprout up and heal nearby players, gliders, aim enhancing 
 devices, and resurrection spells. While these are all interesting and add to the gameplay, they 
 become sort of less amazing over time. I like to stay optimistic and hope that downloadable weapons, 
 powers, tech upgrades, and maps are on the way. One other area in which Shadowrun is lacking is 
 the number of modes. There are only three, one deathmatch and two capture the flag variants. They 
 all play basically the same, as you can win by eliminating the other team. In the end, Shadowrun 
 is an engaging shooter with some interesting ideas, but at least some single player campaign would've 
 been nice. It's a good buy for any multiplayer shooter fan, but don't expect the customization 
 and abundancy of options of a shooter like GRAW2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shodog
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  If you want to play a FPS that doesn't feel like every other FPS out there, get this. The magic 
 and tech aspects make the game deeper. I for one, like how the game balances out all the abilities. 
 Every ability has a counter ability. Not one set of abilities rules the game. The game plays like 
 counter-strike but not as boring because you can be resurrected during a round. If you are ready 
 for a new and fun FPS buy it. It is sah-weet. I have had alot of fun with my friends, playing and 
 trying to find out what race and abilities work for me. Halo gets old after a while. This game 
 makes a fresh turn for the better. Don't get me wrong, I will be waiting for HALO 3... but in the 
 meantime I will enjoy the strategy of Shadow Run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibsonSG40
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I love the gameplay in this game! the whole magic and tech thing adds a lot of tactics and skill 
 and they are fun as hell to use. i very much like the different races which also brings many different 
 styles of gameplay into factor because of their different specialties they posses. The graphics 
 are great, the blood in this game is very nice looking and makes it so much fun to sneak up on 
 someone with the katana and cut their jugular. the sound is good, have no problem with it. 10/10
 
  
  The only thing that i would like to see with this game is more multiplayer settings. It seems that 
 the only have two different types of games right now, capture the flag, and team deathmatch. Although 
 they are fun as hell to play, since this is a multiplayer game only I would expect a little more 
 variety in games. I would also like to see a bit more variety in weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldylocks33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Just because the game doesnt follow in the footsteps doesnt make it a bad game. Its a great game 
 and it breaks the long streak of no good games out for the 360. I do wish there was a single player 
 but the focus on the multiplayer shows. It is great fun. The best part is that you have so many 
 different possibilities and ways to play that everyone has a different style. You can choose from 
 any of the 4 races. Then choose between several sets of tech, magic, and abilities. The way you 
 like to play fps can be achieved. Whether you like to be a brute, or quick evasive type, a balanced 
 human, or a magical dwarf, its up to you. The options are yours and it allows everyone to have 
 strengths in the game rather than just some people being good at it. Which probably pisses off 
 most hardcore fps people because for once there is a game that almost anyone can get good at. I 
 love the game and I personally think it is a buy. The add in of a party a la Halo 2 is also very 
 nice so that you can easily play matches with Xbox live friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HVPinc
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:27 am PT
Review:  There needs to be more games like this. Its innovative, frantically paced and fun. Just not for 
 long enough. This game has so much potential. They had the basis for a story and it even seems 
 like they had mission outlines but they didn't use them. If the game had even a decent single player 
 it could definently been a 9.5 game. Now to what the game is. Its a multiplayer that focuses heavily 
 on teamplay. It is a mix of counterstrike and some original gameplay. You buy weapons and magic 
 in the begining of each round. If you don't die then you keep the weapon you ended with. You will 
 not lose your magic until you move onto the next map though. The magic forces you to focus on team 
 play. If you die you have to hope one of your teammates bought the revive magic to bring you back. 
 Then there are magic's like strangle which come in very handy in the capture the flag style games. 
 It basically shoots out a mass amount of crystals which block opponents. Having a team that is 
 balanced with offensive, defensive and support magic is key to winning. The game types are basically 
 3 different variations of capture the flag. Instead of a flag though they use an artifact . The 
 variations are small though. One is a race to see which team can reach the flag first and get it 
 back to their base and the other two consist of 1 team either defending or going after the flag. 
 Its all fun for a few hours but its not enough for a full game.
  
  Honestly the game feels like an add on to a full game. Its like shivering ilses without Oblvion, 
 only not as long lasting. I can honestly say that its a good rent but under no means should anyone 
 buy it unless they add more maps or a single player mode. Disapointing really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cerebrus101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun dosn't have insane graphics such as gears of war, but the thing it offers is a whole 
 new set of tactics when you combine magic with technology and guns. This game is diverse and is 
 highly addictive ( especially the multiplayer) I hear that Shadowrun will also be coming out with 
 patches later with some new cool things that will definately boost the variety of multiplayer. 
 I own it and it is great i reccoomend it to xbox live fanatics like myself =) I also find it nice 
 that it has some counterstrike style to the online, such as buying wepons, tech, and spells before 
 each match so you can switch things up a little bit. I say this game deserves at least an 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blu-dolfun
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The quick and catchy action of Shadowrun has been crushed by the reviews of large sites and magazines. 
 Do not let this discourage you from checking this game out. I will not deny that fact that there 
 are minor bugs that need fixing and the graphics are not exactly next gen. Aside from the few negative 
 aspects of the game, it is overall a fun and new style of gameplay. WHY?! First off the game has 
 a huge counter-strike influence. I never thought that purchasing weapons before a match would ever 
 be seen or even acceptable since the 90s counter-strike release. Shadowrun pulls off this mechanic 
 pretty well. Not only can you purchase weapons, but the magic and technology that can also be bought 
 gives the game an orginal twist that others do not offer. Second, all the races seem to be evenly 
 matched. For example, elves may be quick and lose life at a faster rate, but they can also regenerate 
 it slowly. I will not deny that Shadowrun does need a few more maps and lacks a vairation of game 
 modes. Retrieving an artifact can get a little redundant. The game also does not allow you to change 
 races after the match has started. The party option is also not as affective as you want it to 
 be. These few problems can be fixed through updates on x box live. This being the main reason for 
 me having faith in this game. CHECK IT OUT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Os1r1s
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  What may seem a bad deal for $60 (online play only, and offline with bots) Shadowrun becomes quite 
 deep if not overwhelming at first. The fact that there is 4 different classes, each with different 
 ups and downs. The dwarf has the ability to suck essence (the mana of the game) , the elf is faster 
 and can regenerate health, and so on.
  
  Imagine a game played online with cheats enabled for everyone and you've got Shadowrun. Seeing 
 through walls, flying, and locking on makes it so addicting.
  
  It becomes incredibly fun and many players online are comparing it to Counter Strike with a hint 
 of Everquest. So if you are an RPG fan and love shooters get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APflopsy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for Shadowrun, having been into the pen and paper RPG in my younger days. If you're 
 looking for a game to capture the feel and attitude of that gritty future envisioned by the old 
 RPG, you won't find that here. This is more a rethinking of the basic concept of combining firepower 
 with sorcery, packed into a high-intensity shooter. The graphics are good, about like you'd expect 
 from a next gen multiplayer shooter, though they will not shatter paradigms and amaze you as effectively 
 as the artfully crafted visuals within Gears of War. This is a different feel, and the most impressive 
 sights (and they are impressive) will be found in the magic use rather than the spraying of carnage. 
 There was one particular time I cringed, and that was floating up ladders rather than animated 
 climbing, but after a few minutes of blasting spells and coasting on gliders the ladder-flying 
 started to blend into the rest of the mystical visuals and became less of an issue. I still question 
 why this wasn't repaired during development. Other visual faults include the lack of skin variety. 
 Though each of the four races has a distinct look, on either team each player of the same race 
 will look identical.
  
  While initially appearing to be a run-of-the-mill multiplayer shooter, Shadowrun's real value is 
 in the numerous fantastic tweaks and touches provided through the spells and tech enhancements. 
 In the first few rounds you may not be blown away, but as you accumulate new tools as the match 
 progresses, you will begin to feel the game's value. That value becomes evident when you teleport 
 down through the floor to beat the other team to the Artifact (flag) , zap through a solid wall 
 to escape pursuit, or summon a big blue demon thing to go smack the living hell out of the guy 
 taking potshots at you with a rifle. Hardwiring your nerves with a tech upgrade, slicing bullets 
 out of the air with a katana and then performing some quick surgery on your opponents is another 
 grin-inducer. These fun things along with the unique attributes of the four races definitely set 
 Shadowrun apart from the rest of the pack. On the downside, once you become accustomed to the cool 
 enhancements, you will almost certainly find yourself wishing that there were more of them to play 
 with. This is good and bad; they're so cool that you want more... but there aren't any more. Not 
 yet anyway. I'm optimistic that added content will fill in some of the blanks here, as well as 
 repair some other seemingly incomplete features. Some blanks which should be filled are: more gametypes 
 (there are basically only 3 variations of capture the flag/deathmatch, and these are fun but added 
 types would be welcome and extend the game's value) , more skins to diversify the visuals, and a 
 few added animations such as the ladder climb. It is common for an out-of-the-box multiplayer to 
 need an update patch to realize its full potential, but Shadowrun, while it still is a lot of fun 
 to play, cries out for some fixes. Ultimately, I debated whether to plunk down $64 for a game that 
 was getting mixed reviews. My bottom line question is always this: Is it fun, and will it stay 
 fun? Yes, it's hella fun. And I want to wrap this up so I can go play another marathon session, 
 so I believe it will stay fun for at least a while. A few missing bits of varnish here or there 
 are apparent but can be overlooked, and the creative spells and tech , while they may wear thin 
 for some over time, are some of the most inventive and enticing features to be worked into a shooter 
 in quite a long time. I recommend this game for anybody looking for a fun multiplayer shooter with 
 twists you've never seen anywhere before, with the caveat that a downloadable update in the near 
 future would be welcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cctgta
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This is definitely a must have game for the xbox360. Anyone who tells you otherwise doesnt know 
 anything about games. The multiplayer in this game is awesome and is relatively easy to get going. 
 The training missions at the beginning of the game help you get a good start into the game. Don't 
 beleive any1 who says bad about this game please get it You wont regret your purchase at all. The 
 depth that went into planning this game is amazing. The races you can get are balanced and work 
 really well with the game. There isnt one true race that dominates all same goes for weapons. If 
 you miss out on this game you will be sorry. For all of the hard work put into this game it gets 
 a 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaignyn
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  FPS genre has always been run and gun with a few games adding any real distinct fun and useful 
 differences. Shadowrun does just that, the diversity in racial abilities, tech, and magic allows 
 you to play the game differently each time. If you don't like getting one shotted by a head shot 
 play the dwarves, like survivability play elves, durability and heavy firepower you have trolls, 
 and a good balance as always are the humans. Give this game a fair chance and go in playing unbiased, 
 and you'll love it.
  
  If your tired of playing Halo 2 over and over, this is the way to go.... who needs story when all 
 you want to do is own face online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckpar72
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 3, 2007 11:21 am PT
Review:  i wanted a new game and mostly play fps. halo 3 and others are a few months off. so i gave it a 
 shot. i have not been this addicted to a game since rainbow six 3 and black arrow on original xbox 
 . i know the price is a rip off with it only being a multi player game but trust me it is great 
 multi player. make sure you go through the training. it is by far the best traingin in a game i 
 have ever seen. i am hoping there is a great deal of free content for this game, like new maps 
 and weapons. maybe a game type or two. very good online fps team based combat!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _synapsid_
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 3, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  When you look at First Person Shooters like Day of Defeat or Counter-Strike there is a certain 
 connotation that the game should be packaged with something that has a little more meat on its 
 bones in terms of story. For instance the packaging combination of Half Life 2 and Counter-Strike: 
 Source, Half Life 2 has the story aspect covered, and Counter-Strike acts as a multiplayer gameplay 
 addition. Shadowrun is a lackluster in the story department however, this is a franchise that was 
 rich with story content back in its RPG days, but seems to have been forgotten in this current 
 installment of the game. The only story you receive in this game is during the cut scenes which 
 only leave you wanting more and left in the dark.
  
  On the positive side; the game really does look great. The art direction takes a stylized realism 
 approach that comes out looking fantastic. Magical effects in the game also look amazing with bright 
 vibrant colours. Although the game doesn't look like it pushes the Xbox 360 to its limit, it seems 
 to because the game often chugs in terms of frame rate online and off. The buy system is a nice 
 addition... but its just another line out of Counter-Strikes book. The team based aspect of game 
 feels great with; mic support, combat resurrections, and party support.
  
  One of the largest blemishes is the waiting time to get into an online multiplayer match. I have 
 never had to wait as long has I had to wait getting into a match in any other online game, ever! 
 In the time it took for me to enter an online match I could have finished watching half of an episode 
 of Family Guy (with commercials) .
  
  All and all this game delivers gameplay much like Counter-Strike, just with added Magic effects 
 and awful online waiting times... This is a rent at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gouki23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Once again, Gamespot disappoints me with their biased reviews of multiplayer competitive games. 
 The game is awesome, has a lot of depth to it and is meant for hardcore gamers. If you like Counter-Strike, 
 you will love this game. Gamespot gave it 6.9 and every forum I go, everyone is saying how they 
 no longer trust Gamespot reviews for anything. I used to trust them, but now I know that no one 
 should. One of their arguments is that this game doesn't follow the previous chapter in the license 
 (which was the SNES game) , which is pathetic. Who cares that is not a third person shooting game 
 based on a 90's game??? I sure dont. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_pie
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 3, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  The Good: The graphics and map details look good, cool spells and gadgets
  
  The Bad: No story, Unstable Servers, Poor weapon play, Few Maps, no customisation, no online lobby, 
 capture the flag is the only game mode.
  
  This game is a joke and shouldn't even be considered to fans of FPS's. i'll start with the good 
 seeming there is very little, the graphics are good and look sharp, and characters look detailed. 
 The Spells and Gadgets are very cool, teleporting, turning to smoke, seeing through walls, its 
 all there and its all fun to play around with.
  
  Now the bad. Absolutely no storyline what so ever, this is just stupid, i got asked what the game 
 was about the other day, i replied... magic. This game may have got above a 6 if it had a story 
 mode, but sadly, your stuck with capture the flag. Whats the most annoying about this game is the 
 servers, they are constantly laggy and unfair and by far the worst ive ever seen in a game. At 
 times you can unload a whole mag into a bad guy and he doesnt die, he turns around and shoots you 
 once you drop to the flow, this is ridiculous. I was once playing and all of a sudden the game 
 said (to everyone) Unable to connect to server , then we were all sat there for at least 5 minutes 
 waiting for it to sync itself. Alot of the time the games are so laggy they are next to unplayable. 
 By hosting a private match this does get rid of the problem, but unfortunately achievements cannot 
 be unlocked through private matches (nor can they be unlocked in solo matches offline) .
  
  The weapon play on this game sucks, there is only one gun that can do a 1 hit kill and that is 
 a sniper rifle shot to the head (and this doesnt even work on dwarfs!!!) , you are left shooting 
 bullets upon bullets into a guy before they die, then when you do die, thats it, you can get resurrected 
 but there are no respawns. There is also only a few guns to choose from, these are; Pistol, SMG, 
 Rifle, Sniper Rifle, Minigun and Rocket Launcher. There are only (if i remember correctly) 9 maps 
 in this game, this is a joke, if your going to make a game purely based on capture the flag, youve 
 gotta have at least double that amount of maps.
  
  There is also no customisation for your character, so your left looking the same as all the same 
 species in your group.
  
  There is no online lobby in this game, you basically either make a private game or join a public 
 game, you cannot select from a list on which game to join, so most of the time you join a server 
 thats not based in your country so your at a disadvantage as you are likely to experience lag.
 
  
  Finally the game itself... capture the flag. This is all the game is, there are 3 game types, Extraction, 
 Attrition and Raid. Extraction is where both sides go after the flag, Raid is where one side defends 
 the flag where the other goes after it, and attrition is basically an elimination match. No death 
 matches here, only 2 teams per game, no every man for them self games, no respawns, nothing.
  
  In conclusion, this game is a poor excuse for a 360 title and there are better multiplayer 
 games out there, all that seperates this game from another plain online shooter is the magic, but 
 that isnt worth the price of the game to use. It may keep you entertained for a few hours (maybe 
 more if your in the US as that is where most of the servers seem to be) , but all in all, a pointless 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Camper_On_Creat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of cool things that make this game very innovative, especially all of the ramifications 
 in it that deal with your magic. It has quite a lot of little rules and loopholes that gives the 
 game a quite extensive learning experience. It should give all of the nerdy little fanboys an orgasm, 
 because there are a lot of things to like here. Elves, majic, dwarves and all of the complexity 
 that comes with them meet in a first person shooter. The developers blend it together quite successfully, 
 and if that is not innovation then I dont know what is. The game is also very team based, with 
 modes that really force team play. Ressurrecting is also something that helps team play. This game 
 has really done a good job with getting players to actually talk on the microphone. I have never 
 heard so much MEANINGFUL talking in a video game ever. It seems like random people can meet and 
 have a good little game commence where they communicate and act accordingly every single time. 
 There is nothing quite as fun as defending an area with your teamates in this game. Some of the 
 maps also look very fun and cool. There are some times when the game can take your breath away. 
 Now onto the bad things, and believe me there are many flaws. The shooting gameplay just does not 
 quite stack up to other games out there. At times, it can look, feel, and especially sound awcward. 
 There are many other games that do this right, and in this aspect, Shadowrun can feel slightly 
 dated. Graphically, while thhe game has its moments, it also can look pretty last gen as well. 
 I feel that gamespot is right in that the game lacks some important animations, and more destructible 
 environments would have been good. The other thing is that the game has only 9 maps. Yea, I know 
 maps will come out later, but why should we have to pay more for them, especially since the development 
 team probabaly already have them made, but they are just holding it to charge us. I might buy the 
 maps, and I might not. Also, it feels like split-screen is something that would have been really 
 fun if added. If it had atleast 12 maps, and split-screen, this game would have easily scored somewhere 
 in the range of 8.5-8.9 regardless of the weakness of the shooting gameplay and other graphical 
 errors. Yes, the good part to this game is really that good, and for that I am glad that i bought 
 it. If you own a 360, you might not want to buy shadowrun, but you should defintly check it in 
 some way, shape, or form. As for single player content, I dont think that is a valid criticism, 
 there are plenty of multiplayer only games. The only thing it needed more content in is maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjaxams
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  Yes this game only has a handful of maps. Yeah, theres no climbing animation. Sure, the learning 
 curve can be a little steep depending on who you play. This game however, is something unique and 
 special. You'll never quite understand untill you actually play it, but if you appreciate a deep, 
 rich FPS experience, then by all means give this wonderful game a try. Everything from the races, 
 to the magic and techs, are balanced well. There is nothing thats so overpowering that it makes 
 you say OMFG NOOB!!!!!!!111!!! I'm writing this assuming that you have already done some research 
 on this game which is why I'm not gonna elaborate to much, so in closing, if you can find this 
 game for less than $40, jump on it. $60 might be a bit much for this game, as its lite on content. 
 I honestly don't regret buying at all though. One of the best MP FPSs I've ever played. Shadowrun 
 is huge on gameplay and those who give it a shot shall not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revelstone
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:26 am PT
Review:  Where to start? I love the races with their different strengths and weaknesses.
  The Tech/magic ability's are well done and offer a variety of strategy's. The graphics, while not 
 stellar are reasonably good. The maps are for the most part nicely done and look good. Now for 
 the bad: first off this game is missing some very basic components that have been around since 
 the first counterstrike game. Why cant I control the round times and number of wins? why cant I 
 control my starting cash? with no leader boards, I cant imagine why these basic control options 
 found in games like Rainbow Six Vegas and Gears are absent. This game is also lacking sorely in 
 the game mode department; It is in desperate need of a king of the hill type mode, an attack and 
 defend base mode, and a hostage rescue type mode. For an online only game, these missing options 
 should have been thrown in from the start. In the end I do enjoy playing and probably will for 
 a while yet, but these missing elements have GOT to be addressed in a patch or DL content soon 
 if this game is to survive. Heres hoping we see a single player Shadowrun campaign some time in 
 the next few years. Oh by the way, why was the Ork race left out?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robodawg11
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 3, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  Well first off i have never played the original shadowrun, but i shure do love this new one. Everything 
 is awsome the sound, graphics, and esspecially the gameplay.
  
  I think the graphics in this game are pretty good, i mean they aint the best but there not be either. 
 The sound is pretty good to. Everything sounds like what you would expect it to sound like.
  
  The gameplay is fricken awsome since you can play so many different ways. So many different 
 combinations.
  
  I think everyone should atleast rent this game and if your a serious gamer you should buy it now 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazyazndude90
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  shadowrun is like a mixture of counter-strike, with the buying of the items at the beginning of 
 the round, like halo, with the style of the first person shooter, and like oblivion, with some 
 sword play and magic. It's a very unique first person shooter that takes an hour or so to get the 
 hang of. the training levels get dull but once you play with others on live, it's amazing. people 
 aren't mean, unless you sound like you are 4 lol, but it's reallly fun. It stresses teamwork, much 
 like in counter-strike. some complain about the number of maps, but the way i see it, why play 
 many maps poorly when you can play a good amount rather skillfully. This game is a must buy, regardless 
 of what gamespot has to say. Although it has no single player and a story, i figure, who needs 
 it? i know when i get done with a game's campaign i just focus of the multiplayer. I highly recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 3, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  i was hoping for so much more with shadowrun, the game looks fine and the weapons are nice. lot 
 of nice touches to the game diffrent things you can do, like not the same old stuff they tryed 
 to mix things up, but this training levels stuff and that person that talks through the game telling 
 you where the other side is and stuff, that gets old, but i think this is like the 3rd game i played 
 with training stuff and its boring, who wants someone telling you what to do and how to play, makes 
 me feel like i am on a new job and its monday at work and a boss yamming to you what to do, i want 
 to jump in a game and go and let it fly, maybe there is a fan base some folks just love training 
 missions and the man talking and telling you how to fire a gun, well i hope not and i hope this 
 is not a thing to come a wave of training levels in games please no i will just die, its boring 
 very boring, also for the members out here on gamespot been sending me bad e mails for my low rating, 
 and also i know there is more to shawdowrun then training levels, and i still dont like the game 
 and yes i have live online and i still dont like the game, its my right on gamespot to give my 
 view and score on a game, dont like my score to bad then dont read them, and for the hate e mails 
 anyone sending me bad e mails i will report them to gamespot, shadowrun my score stands 3.4 thats 
 my score bad, thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Man154
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  first off i know many people are mad about jeffs review. leave him alone im mad too, he notices 
 the minor flaws and brings a great games score down.
  
  Graphics: this game looks very nice. thee only bad thing is there is only 1 player madle for each 
 race and team, its kinda annoying but i got over it. the textures are great same with the effects. 
 the levels are also very nice and unique, from ruins to high skyrizes.
  
  Game play: for this you need to think and have quick reflexes. this is fast paced and tactical 
 at the same time which i like. theres way too many games that are cover based and thats getting 
 boring. in the begging of eatch match you choose your weapons, techs, and spealls. you can even 
 give money to your fellow teammates. you have 1 life to live each game but there is ressurect the 
 only downside is that if they die you slowly starrt to die too. if you dont like the 1 life thing... 
 dont worry the rounds are short and youll usually be ressurected.
  
  the thing that really sets this game aside is the magic fantasy elements mixed with the hightech 
 wepondry, if youve ever wanted to blast an elf with a rocket launcher this is the game for you.
 
  
  this game is highly addictive and very fun, if you think its over priced, oh well your missing 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dleary2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The review nitpicks one missing animation and a poor use of the license if you're a Shadowrun fan, 
 but they seem to have totally missed out on the fact that the game is a blast.
  
  I played for five hours today, and the variety of tactics, the required teamwork, and sheer fun 
 of what happens in the game more than make up for only nine maps and a less-than-perfect use of 
 a world that not all that many people know about anyway. (I say only nine maps, but they're all 
 great maps - each shows a ton of care in construction, and has plenty of alternate routes and strategies.)
 
  
  I suppose that fanatical Shadowrun guys might be sad about the timeline, but if they come with 
 an open mind, they'll quickly forget the license and fall in love with a great multiplayer shooter 
 that feels like Counterstrike + UT, with a dash of Tribes 2 thrown in for good measure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tree-branch
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, before buying this game i was sure it was going to be a bad game but I took my chances and 
 bought it anyway. It was one of the best choices i have made because now i cant stop playing this 
 game. Well to start off this review i will begin by talking about the graphics. The graphics are 
 good but not great. The textures are done very well and the player models look awesome .
  Instead of single player their is a tutorial .The tutorial is very helpful and will give you all 
 the basics you need to know to master the game on line. Their are six chapter that should take you 
 about an hour to complete. If you do not have live then you can go to one of the options to play 
 with bots which is still very fun.
  If you do have live you can go play with your friends or play with strangers. Their are 9 huge maps 
 that will take months to get old and their are about 7 weapons. It will start by telling you to 
 play on line and once you say ok it will start looking for a match with out telling you what mode 
 and what map you will be playing in. Once your in you have to choose what race your going to be, their 
 is four and each have their own and unique ability's which you should of learned in the tutorial.
 
  When in the match you first choose your gear and the start working with your teammates to get 
 the flag or kill all of your opponents. Working with your team and doing objectives have never 
 been so fun for me.
  Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robertwelsh2
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a fast paced multiplayer only action game. It is noted for it's unique combination 
 of magical powers and first person shooting. It is not just a first person shooter however, there 
 are a few items or powers that will automatically force you into a third person view, which can 
 lead to a large advantage during the game.
  
  It is said that it is a multiplayer only game, but that is untrue, you have the capability to fight 
 against bots (Up to 15) in a solo mission. When people say 'multiplayer only' it means that you 
 can only play with other people over X-box live or LAN. Fortunately you can also join other players 
 who are using Windows Vista, and Window Vista players can play with X-box 360 players; therefore 
 Shadowrun gets a point for originality. The action gameplay in Shadowrun is somewhat flawless, 
 aside from a few glitches that may be found during some matches. This includes the rare, Kill the 
 entire enemy team but continue playing until match time runs out . But one major let down is the 
 value of the game! This is about 60 dollars American or 70 dollars Canadian, eitherway it is a 
 huge impact on all. On the bright side it's cheaper on Windows Vista, but who can afford Vista 
 anyways. Sound is 'good' to say at the least, you can barely hear your guys talking on the battlefield 
 (That doesn't mean you can't hear your teamates scream on the mike) over the deafening gunshots 
 and magic casting.
  
  Finally the major let down is that there is no Singleplayer Campaign, this must of frustrated most 
 people when they bought the game because all you get that has to do with single player is six training 
 missions on how to use weapons and magic. Although there are a few glitches and flaws, this game 
 is overall worth playing because of the ability to use magic and guns, play with Windows Vista 
 and Xbox 360 players at the same time with a totall maximum of 16 players, and since it totally 
 rocks online. I recommend that you either buy it or wait for it to lower in price.
  
  Score: 7.9
  Review by PatricksFinest (Robertwelsh2) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Ignore those who give this game such a high score, they are either addicted or havn't noticed the 
 game will quickly wear off. The spells are ok, but being that spells were one of the main points 
 of the game just turns me off to this game, it seems as though it was added in, in the making as 
 well as several other things.
  -Graphics
  Very strange hard to rate, at times you'll like it, and other times you wonder if your playing 
 the good old Xbox. The characters look pretty cool but other then that you really wont care so 
 much for it.
  -Sound
  Its great but really could have used some music, just listen to some music on the radio or iPod 
 or something.
  -Story
  stuff fighting stuff to get stuff.
  -GamePLAY
  Its fun for a bit and addictive, the skills are also pretty cool but you can only use 3 at a time, 
 yet again nothing different, ever! The Character models are the same. I wish you could customize 
 your character appearance wise so you could have some like badass ninja elf or something, but since 
 its an FPS I guess thats not what I should expect.
  -Conclusion
  Stay away stay far away, unless theres nothing to play and your bored of playing gears and H3 beta, 
 I *guess* you should give it a shot. It seems there was a lack of effort put into it too. OH and 
 the last thing you would do is buy this game, its not worth its heavy price tag, go rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindandseachin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game, and I think that it will be fun for a very long time. Because of the 6.9 
 review I am not coming back to this site. Its outrageous that someone can base a review on the 
 depth of a game when in actuality this game has more depth that any other shooter ever. I am a 
 dedicated gamespot visitor, even have a paid membership. Watch a live version of the show during 
 a tournament, they are awful, they know nothing about the video games that they are watching. I 
 was watching the gears of war tourney and they were making fun of people for shooting the sniper 
 into nothing to get an active reload. If they don't already know about something like that in gears 
 of war they will never, and I mean never understand a game like Shadowrun with a ton of depth. 
 This game is worth buying and you will have fun with it. If you like multiplayer you will like 
 this game. Peace out this is the last time I will be on this site. The gamespot editors are a bunch 
 of noobs, or at least the one who reviewed this game, and I DO NOT take advice from noobs.
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinton015
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is the first of its kind on home consoles. All Multiplayer, all fun, all the time. The 
 Counter Strike of consoles? You would have to judge for yourself but Shadowrun is truly combat 
 redefined. Unique abilities and solid gunplay make for a great shooter. The games has both its 
 strengths and its weaknesses however which stop it from being an epic online game. The effect of 
 magic on gameplay is immeasurable. Do you choose to build a magical fortress of crystals and trees 
 for healing with a group of trolls to defend a position, or be in a group of katana wielding elves 
 that can teleport and smoke for quick guerilla operations behind enemy lines? The answer is all 
 in how you play the game. Teleportation lets you bypass walls, whereas using a glider can bypass 
 stairs. Other spells revive fallen comrads or save ones near death, or protect the ever valuable 
 artifact from enemy control. Tech is a whole nother story however, it aims for you, makes you superhuman, 
 and renders magic useless. However it also drains your ability to use magic which can be a fatal 
 mistake. The only negatives about this game are the fact that parties are constantly split up when 
 in games, and often times you enter in the last round of a match. Also games can be hard to find 
 and hard to stay connecte to. I don't know how many achievements I have lost because of that damn 
 Server has left the match notification. Also another fairly trivial problem is that all the characters 
 look the same. There is absoluely no variety, the least they could have done is offered a race 
 customization option to get a little diversity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: happyfunyay
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game will not let you down, trust me on this one. It will provide you with hours upon hours 
 of fun. But please do not base your opinion off of Gamespot's review. It, in my opinion, deserves 
 a significantly higher score. If you are a FPS fan this is the game for you. Take the popular online 
 FPS Counter-Strike, mix it with a dose of Unreal Tournament, and add in some magic and fast paced 
 game play and you have your self some Shadowrun! So please do yourself a favor and give this game 
 a try, you will not be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankeefan9192
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  shadowrun in my book is the most disappointing games of the year and heres why...
  
  1) there is no single player..... this also makes the achievements easier to yet and lowers the 
 value
  
  2) It has nothing to do with the shadowrun series 3) There is lag in every cross platform game
 
  
  4) Graphics= they would be a nine because of the amazing envierment, but all of the same race player 
 models are the same
  
  5) Gameplay= Good combat and magic but there are afew maps, lag and 2 or 3 game modes
  
  6) Sound=nothing 
 special... the heavier guns over power the sorrounding noise
  
  7) Value=low its the kinda game you'll love for the first 2 hours then you realize you just wasted 
 2 hours of your life
  
  Final Comment=aleast rent it before buying it, or just buy it if you want the pretty green case 
 or if your starting a collection of highly disappointing games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a multiplayer only FPS based off of the tabletop RPG. The game has been in development 
 for a while at FASA studios, and I can tell that the development time was well used. When you first 
 start up the game, you will be presented with the option to jump right in or to go through a few 
 tutorials first. The tutorials take a while, but are recommended. Plus, you get an achievement 
 for each tutorial you successfully pass through. These tutorials will teach you how to fight, use 
 magic, use technologies, and how to exploit the intricacies of each race. After every tutorial, 
 players are thrust into a bot match in which they can test their skills. While bot matches are 
 harrowing at higher difficulties, they still can't compare to the beautiful chaos that is multiplayer. 
 This is where the polish put into the game becomes evident. Every single race, weapon, tech and 
 magic ability is balanced. The shotgun and katana are powerful, but only at close range. The minigun 
 has the fastest rate of fire, but must be charged up first. The strangle spell will block off an 
 area with health-depleting crystals, but for every strangle patch that you summon you must give 
 up two pips of essence. From my experience, the maps are well designed and encourage tactical play. 
 But don't worry- just because it's somewhat tactical doesn't mean that it isn't one of the most 
 chaotic games on Xbox Live. The one flaw with Shadowrun is actually a very minor, very humorous 
 one. When in the third person view (used while weilding a katana or using the smoke magic. Third 
 person really highlights the excellent character models.) and climbing a ladder, the character 
 deosn't actually climb the ladder; he just sort of levitates up it. It's actually pretty funny 
 looking. Other than that, the graphics are absolutely fantastic. While the environments don't show 
 a huge amount of detail, the magic effects and character models do. The game has a very cool look 
 to it that sort of reminds me of Timesplitters. There is not music in the game, so the only sound 
 effects come from the announcer and the weapon bursts, along with occasional character yells. It's 
 a good thing, then, that everything generally sounds quite good. Weapons have the right amount 
 of kick to them and the announcer sounds pretty good usually. The best part of the sound is how 
 the characters shout out information about their status and location. For example, if a character 
 puts up a tree of life, he will shout Tree up in.. whatever location it has been erected. If a 
 character is bleeding out, he will yell for help. Every online game should have that feature. Here's 
 to hoping that Shadowrun develops a large community- it has the best online play of any 360 game 
 so far imo... probably even the Halo 3 beta! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dance-for-pants
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 3:09 pm PT
Review:  don't listen to to the video review he is totally wrong this is a great game 9 maps is plenty most 
 games with tons of maps only have people playing on 3 or 4, the lack of animation is bogus the 
 only animation that is lacking is the ladder climb and even halo didn't have that. 3 game modes 
 is plenty gears only had 3 an they were all slayer this has netrural flag 1 flag and slayer graphics 
 are top notch in my opinion. every time you play a map it is differnt unlike in gears where every 
 on uses the same rush the power weapons tactic every round and will betray you just to get them 
 in this game it takes skill to earn enough money to get power weapons and the sniper is only for 
 long ranged combat so you don't have to worry about some one no scoping you from 3 feet away when 
 they should of been using a more rang appriot weapon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanwise83
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  This is yet another attempt that Microsoft is going to make you pay FULL price for half a game. 
 This is a trend that Microsoft is getting in the habit of. Don't get me wrong... the game IS fun 
 and does some things that others haven't but it's still not enough. The price of games has jumped 
 up $10 dollars because the cost of making next gen games is higher but I'm failing to see TRUE 
 next gen games. I am seeing next gen prices. What I would like to see is animations of people climbing 
 ladders (this is not in Shadowrun) , to be able to customize my character (can't do this in Shadowrun 
 either) . I'm sure there will be DLC for Shadowrun in the future but we all know that will cost 
 800 Microsoft points which is $10. So think about it...$60 for the game to begin with plus another 
 $10??? Shadowrun is hardly worth the $8 to rent let alone $70 to get all (which isn't much) that 
 they're offering. So steer away from this one... it's not worth your hard earned money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrathofchardo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Take counter strike and give yourself magic powers like teleporting around or being able to rezz 
 one of your allies. It is basically a fast paced shooter with magic and tech thrown in to make 
 the game never really get boring. You can always experiment with different things and weapons to 
 see what allows you to just sit back and rock people or get in and out with the kattana, hit and 
 run stylee. If your sick of gears and want something new and different and above all else really 
 fun get this game it wont disappoint. Unless of course you are getting it for story or single player 
 then you will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZombieInABox
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Very good FPS that introduces some interesting abilities and pulls off the basic part of its gameplay 
 well. Graphics lack polish some textures are poor also some animations are lacking inspiration 
 such as the Ladders . Because its severely lacking content such as any MULTIPLAYER only game should 
 be packed with it seems like 60$ was way overpriced for this game.
  
  When the Vista version of the game is only 37.99 at some retailers and the 360 version of the game 
 is 59.99 you have to wonder why and how they would do that to consumers... its a pure rip off plain 
 and simple. This game features 3 game modes that seem and play virtually all as 1. They are all 
 elimination style where you get one life with the chance of getting ressurected by fellow teammates. 
 There is a Raid mode where both teams try to steal the Bacon /Artifact and score it CTF style. 
 Extraction where one team is assigned to defense and the other is going to steal the artifact CTF 
 style again. The other is Attrition where its basically a Team Elimination but I think there is 
 an Artifact and still not sure why there is... or im just confused as to why all the game modes 
 seem the same. Thats it though... No TDM or any other innovative modes. Every game you start with 
 nothing and have to buy each weapon/ability every time not to mention the controls for assigning 
 the abilitys is overly difficult and could have been a lot easier/simpler.
  
  It gets old after a while, every game starts to get good later into the Game after you get your 
 stuff set right and then the game is over and you have to start all over again. Lacking variety, 
 needs a character building system that makes the stuff you have permanent... something like a Rainbow 
 Six character customizing/skins and buying system would be perfect for Team Deathmatch action.
 
  
  The actual Gameplay is really good which is the only redeeming factor and its a good one. If they 
 could offer some much needed FREE content which is doubtful that they will this game could be a 
 premier 360 FPS game. Already paying about 30 dollars more than this game should have been the 
 thought of actually having to buy more content on top of that would be a pure insult and a disgrace 
 to everybody involved with this game.
  
  The game is fun, but its very disappointing that a Multiplayer only game would offer such limited 
 variety in its content... therefore the whole purchase for the money they want is a big disappointment 
 overall. With the unpolished graphics that seem the same as Perfect Dark Zero a launch title for 
 the Xbox 360 and the uninspired animations where bodys will flicker into object and walls when 
 they die, bodys will vanish into thin air when you destroy them so they cannot be ressurected, 
 and the lame ladder animation makes this game look very rough around the edges and a very 1/2 effort 
 by the developers.
  
  Free downloadable content is essential in this games success... speed is a big factor for this as 
 well. If not this game might just lose its online fan base and die away like other poor online 
 attempted 360 titles such as Prey. Its only a few gamemodes, game searching customizing, maps, 
 and perhaps some new weapons and skins away from being a fantastic game. Lets hope they do right 
 by the people who supported this game and offer us something for our money because as of right 
 now its way overpriced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightyboosh13
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  The idea is great and the execution is nearly spot on and though I think Gamespot is a little unfair 
 in their review I can understand some of their negative points.
  
  The game is brilliant online and with a good party can be a lot of fun. The magic, techs and weapons 
 all seem to work well and balanced ok.
  
  I havent had this much fun in a FPS online for a very long time so in many terms this game ticks 
 all the right boxes or does it....
  
  The game rocks and is a def rent, play tutorial, play online for 2-5 hours get the drift and if 
 like take the plunge.
  But the community is small at the moment and it has potential to grow but it lacks a few things 
 that may make it fail and the reason I don't score it favourably.
  
  1) Costs full price and by the time its &pound;25 it may not have a community to play online with. 
 Too expensive by far...
  
  2) The game needs more maps for a Multiplayer only game I can't understand where all the maps are. 
 They are at least 3 (small) 4 (large) short of a decent amount. Though be ready for the inevatble 
 DLC in a months time.
  
  3) The graphics are a mix bag of good and bad. And the animations are even less desirable.
  
 
  4) Too complicated for some and the tutorial could do with a bit more. Though its nice to have 
 a tutorial.
  
  5) A lack of game modes that seem to be a little unbalanced and not thought out that well. More 
 would be nice.
  
  The game though is a very good FPS that mixes magic and a few unique ideas.
  I really like it 
 but will it survive with soooo many great FPS on 360's horizon. Not so sure.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appleby_boy
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:19 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a good game. The fact that people are whining about how they bought it and discovered 
 there was no campaign bothers me because gamespot said like a million times that it was multiplayer 
 only. Don't get me wrong I would have liked to see a campaign too but you should have read about 
 the game before you went out and bought it. The game overall is very good and puts twists on the 
 first person shooter genre. It starts out like a game of counter strike you buy what you want and 
 then go kill some guys which is fun and I think its better than picking up the powers as you go. 
 There are a few character classes in the game and they all have different strengths and weakness 
 but the fact that you cant customize their look kind of bugs me. Overall if you like FPSs (and 
 you have Xbox Live) then this game is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Bozack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  This is a solid game and deserves a much higher score than gamespot delivered. How does Def Jam 
 Icon get a 8. something and this scores under 7? Anyway back to the game review. Shadowrun is visually 
 pleasant (well the maps atleast) and its multiplayer is fast-paced and exciting. Though it does 
 have quite a few shortcomings. The lack of campaign mode doesn't bother me much because I prefer 
 multiplayer (I blame Halo2 for that) and thats the only place that this game really delivers. My 
 biggest complaints come in with the lack of a splitscreen mode. How the hell can a fully multiplayer 
 game not offer any sort of splitscreen?! though it is rumored that a downloadable splitscreen will 
 be available Im still pissed until i see it. Also there is no Deathmatch mode! There is a mode 
 called attrition; it still includes an artifact. There is no ranking system and melee is limited 
 to 2 weapons. But other than those few things missing, Shadowrun delivers smooth controls great 
 gameplay and tons of fun. NOT TO BE BOUGHT WITHOUT A LIVE ACCOUNT! I still give this game 8.5 out 
 of 10.
  oh and it takes a while to really learn how to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Just bought this game, and the graphics is good, and the controls are good, and sound is good, 
 but What the hell?! I mean couldnt they make a huge sticker on the game saying Only fun if u got 
 Xbox Live And guess what, i aint got Xbox Live! I mean this is a rip off, its alot of fun - the 
 first 5 min, till u realize what a huge mistake u made, its like, where the hell is the campain! 
 Man i got dissapointed! And clearly i am gonna get Xbox Live, i was thinking about that before 
 release of this game, but i mean at least they could have made some kinda campain for peaploe like 
 me that aint got xbox live, i dont know how it is online, but offline it only reaches a 4/10 1: 
 For the Graphics 1: For the Sound 1: For the Controls 1: for the thing they did make, its probably 
 a 9/10 10/10 online i dont know but damn its sucky offline 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socialninjitsu
Rating: 2.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  ***Especially the part about having nothing to do with the Shadowrun license***
  
  A fairly catchy game, even though it's reduced to pure action
  
  But what it's mooching off 
 of and claiming to be can not be forgiven. It needs to be called something else, as it has nothing 
 to do with the beloved world, or even the GENRE, of the classic game.
  
  If you're going to name a game after a classicly beloved series, at least use the same genre or 
 storyline. Or call it something else. The game isn't horrible, but tacking the name Shadowrun to 
 it is a blatant mooch. Would it have been so hard to tell the truth, admit this game has nothing 
 to do with Shadowrun, and name it what it is? Something else. Other than Shadowrun. Which it is 
 not.
  
  Don't get me wrong, this is a halfway decent shooter, but it has no right to use the name Shadowrun. 
 I have to ask: WHY does this have to mooch off the name of Shadowrun? Especially since this game 
 is not, in any way, built for Shadowrun fans.
  
  Instead, it's built for pure shooter fans. Why in hell did they have to associate this with the 
 Shadowrun name? It's truly perplexing. To almost ANY huge fan of the lassic Shadowrun games this 
 is named after, this game would not be appealing. IT'S APPEALING, but mainly to hardcore shooter 
 fans, NOT Shadowrun fans.
  
  Taking a classic intelligent action-rpg that's all about the story/adventure, ripping that out, 
 reducing it to action, and dumbing it down into a pure shooter is pointless. It's a completely 
 different game at that point, and needs a new title.
  
  I seriously have to ask, Why? ... Why did they HAVE to mooch the name of a classic with no similarities. 
 Most folks who could like this game are shooter fans who have little or no familiarity with the 
 name Shadowrun. How was it urgent to blatantly misuse the license/name?! Good bejeebus. I have 
 no beef with the actual game, but hamburgers with the name. Seriously, that serves what purpose 
 but to make it inaccurate and disappoint fans of the original game? anyway.
  
  I have nothing against people who enjoy this game. But I have a problem with anyone who supports 
 naming it after an old beloved series that it has nothing to do with, especially when isn't even 
 in the same genre.
  
  If this game were named something else instead of mooching the name off the classic Shadowrun franchise, 
 which it has nothing to do with... I could give it a solid 8. But I can't forgive that. It can't 
 be denied. Using the Shadowrun name means this is directly claiming to be a part of the Shadowrun 
 universe, and it truly ... is not. In any way/shape/form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  The thrills do not last for the money dished out over the counter. The game I feel was fun for 
 a little while.. and I will jump in to it from time to time.... but for a multiplayer only game... this 
 should have had a few hours worth of quest single player or something to cover the charge to purchase 
 this game. I am dissapointed this game was over $60 to buy... it would be a great $35-$40 point. 
 It has a large amount of achievements that you can get... but other than that, this game should 
 have stayed on the shelf. I don't know what happened to Microsoft titles that were supposed to 
 be $49.99...?? anyone else remember that quote? Anyway, beware of a game that has limited replay 
 value for that money you will spend to play this game a few times... I one of the few people that 
 was really looking forward to this game... and I am sad to say it comes really short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  It's rare I will pay full price for an online only multiplayer game, and I decided to give Shadowrun 
 a shot. When you first boot up, you'll notice you have the option of training (which is necessary) , 
 Solo matches between bots, and Online matches. The training missions are pretty well done, and 
 teach you enough to at least play the game online without getting your backside swiftly kicked. 
 Once you get the hang of it, you can go play online, up to 16 players, in one of two gametypes. 
 The first is a CTF match, which is exactly what it is in every other game. The second is a team 
 deathmatch of sorts, which is... exactly what it is in every other game. The twist is, Shadowrun 
 lets you use more than just guns to complete these objectives. In addition to lead, you have a 
 fairly large selection of powers you can buy, and equip to one of 3 slots. The powers are pretty 
 varied, you can grow a tree that heals all players near it, use gusts of wind to blow enemies around, 
 use smoke to effectively disappear for a few seconds, etc. The spells all have their strengths 
 and weaknesses, and it does give a real sense of strategy to the game, which is welcome. The biggest 
 problem with Shadowrun is its complete lack of variety. Almost every game you will find is a standard 
 CTF match... and while its pretty interesting, it just doesn't stand up to games like Halo2 or PDZ, 
 which offer several gametypes. Unfortunately... its frustrating enough to even find a game, because 
 the matchmaking system takes about 2-4 minutes to find a suitable game. And when you do find a 
 game, chances are its already ending. Thankfully, once you've found a game, its pretty easy to 
 find one the next time, usually with the same people. Shadowrun is lacking variety and feels unfinished, 
 but its still fun. As time goes on, one would assume the developer will hear our requests, and 
 release new maps and modes through marketplace. Until then, Shadowrun should be a weekend rental, 
 and not a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzax
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  While I agree this game is not perfect, I think the combination of magic and playable races makes 
 this game dynamic. Ounce you get a feel for the different abilities, there is a lot of strategy 
 in the game play. My online experience has been very enjoyable. Most people I have played with 
 on Live are really enjoying the game. It seems that people who have previous experience with the 
 license seem to have had their preconceptions violated. I am only judging this on the game only 
 and not and previous incarnation of the game/universe as I think it should be viewed. I would suggest 
 trying the demo next week and see what you think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomrr711
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a game developed by Fasa studios and published by Microsoft games studio. It takes 
 place a few years before most of the other Shadowrun stuff on the SNES and the card games, and 
 so by having the time gap, Fasa felt they would be able to get away with totally changing the Shadowrun 
 experience by turning it into a shooter with many ties to the popular PC game Counter Strike.
 
  
  The game play in Shadowrun revolves essentially around running and gunning. The thing that makes 
 this an interesting game is that magic and tech can be purchased. These two items take up your 
 essence, the power source in the game. These highly useful items can range from glide to the 
 tree of life, where you are able to create a huge tree anywhere on the map which heals you when 
 you stand next to it, and these items spice up the game play somewhat. Nearly all of the game is 
 in its multiplayer component, although there are several extensive training missions which teach 
 you how to equip, use and apply your new magical techniques, as well as get you accustomed to each 
 of the four races characteristics. Shadowrun uses a very good balancing mechanic to make sure that 
 the four races: Human, Elf, Dwarf and Troll are all equal through their strengths and weaknesses. 
 For example, Elves are the only race which have the ability to regenerate their own health but 
 they have the shortest health bar of the four races. Trolls are the slowest of the four, but their 
 health bar is the largest of the four so they take longer to kill than any of the other races. 
 As well as this, they also have the ability to harden when they take a lot of damage, meaning that 
 spikes come out of their backs and these protect them from some of the bullets, so they take longer 
 to die. Most of the game isnt in the tutorial though (thankfully) , its in its fast paced hit 
 and run style multi player. In the multiplayer there are three modes: Raid, Extraction and attrition 
 in which you do basically the same thing. Raid and extraction involve one team of eight fighting 
 for the artifact, the games equivalent to a flag, and things of that kind, where as attrition is 
 a basic team death match where the two teams of eight battle it out on any of the games nine maps. 
 The maps on this game are excellent. They are all large in size and theyll take some getting used 
 to at first because as well as being large, they are also deep, in that there are usually about 
 five vertical planes on each map that really make use of two of the most popular and useful techniques 
 in the game: teleport and glide.
  
  When a spell is cast the people at Fasa have given us some fantastic effects to go with them and 
 these are great indicators as to if youve just cast the correct spell or if you did it at the 
 right time and so on. The graphics on the whole, in fact, are excellent. The textures are spot 
 on and the draw distance is long so sniper experts should be set to go on this game. Maybe the 
 greatest technical achievement on this game is the steady frame rate. With so much going on in 
 the game youd expect it to dip somewhat but even when in full out eight on eight explosive-magical-tree 
 of life-fantasticnes the game keeps it at a solid 60 frames per second. Probably the best thing 
 about the game is the cross networking between Xbox 360 and PC users. This is the first game to 
 use Microsofts Live anywhere functionality where PC and Xbox users can play together on their 
 preferred platform. Gamers thought that this would be the time for them to show who really the 
 best really is: Mouse and keyboard or game pad. Unfortunately, this wont be the case, with balanced 
 controls for both Xbox and PC user, so that question wont be answered today. The controls on the 
 game are pretty simple. The right trigger is always shoot (or slice, as is possible with the Katana) , 
 and the analogue sticks are used like in most shooters, with the left to strafe and the right to 
 look around. The other shoulder buttons can be customized by the player. After buying magic and 
 tech, it can be assigned to and of the other shoulder buttons, so thats really up to the player 
 and what they feel comfortable with.
  
  Over all, Shadowrun provides a shallow multi player experience which is definitely not worth full 
 price. There are only three game modes which all seem very similar and with no leader boards, therell 
 be nothing to hold you on the game. If I were you, I wouldnt buy this game until it goes down 
 in price and theyve brought out more content including damn leader boards. Come on Fasa, get your 
 finger out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krivera77381
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  I think that gamespot is definitely off of the mark on this one. I rented it first and I must say 
 that after playing it for a couple of hours I'll definitely pick this game up. This different combinations 
 of tech and magic along with the inherent strengths and weaknesses of each race make this a pretty 
 deep game in this genre. I had a blast playing this game and could see myself playing it throughout 
 the summer and longer. That's not to say the game is perfect, no climbing animation and no single 
 player campaign are definite drawbacks but the fun factor eclipses those issues. I would have definitely 
 felt better about buying it at a lower price point but I'll still pony up the 59.99 to buy it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killer_Prey
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2007 1:35 am PT
Review:  Well to start off, Shadowrun was suppose to be an overly talked first person shooter game for the 
 360. After its release, Gamespot managed to give the game 6.9?? I disagree with them. So here 
 are my reasons
  
  Story: Well, there isnt much of a story to the game. Basically, there are 4 races you can pick: 
 Human, Elf, Dwarf, and Troll. And there are two sides: the RNA Global and the Lineage. Theses 
 groups fight against each other to control an ancient artifact that gives ultimate power.
  
  Gameplay: The multiplayer is awesome. The ability to use different powers is great like teleporting, 
 resurrecting your died teammates, Summoning monsters to attack your opponent, well, just a lot 
 of stuff you can do. Yes, I suggest you to do the tutorials, to get the feel of the controls.
 
  
  Graphics: I got to say, its pretty impressing that the game takes the 360s graphics to the limit.
 
  
  Sound: Just cant say anything about this, but listening the bullets fire!!! Great
  
  The Good: Awesome online play, the use of powers is great to use, great amount of weapons, to keep 
 you entrained for a few weeks.
  
  The Bad: NOT a single player game, so for those of you dont have xbox live, dont plan on getting 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mourmos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I feel this game was burned and counted down for spots that could really be looked past. This game 
 offers insanely addictive gameplay with so many options to choose from play-style wise that you'll 
 be hooked for a month just playing with different combos. Purists can learn the ins and outs of 
 every map, but the wide variety and unpredictability of combat keeps you on your toes. Yes, games 
 are hard to find now, but given the fact that not everyone buys a game the day it comes out makes 
 it harder for the system to find the perfect match for you. The lack of maps is easily fixed by 
 a map pack, broken animations are true but hardly noticeable given the lack of downtime that you'll 
 have during any one particular round.
  
  This game will blow your mind if you're a fan of the fps genre, buy it despite its rough edges. 
 The gameplay more than makes up for it.
  
  P. S. if you're a fan of the Shadowrun series, don't knock this game because it didn't stay true 
 to the IP. You're dissappointment has NOTHING to do with this game, go cry in the corner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  An incredible game that will definitely get overlooked by the casuals and impatient gamers. It 
 demands a lot of thought, time and training to actually step up and battle against the people who 
 enjoy something new (like myself) because basically every shooter these days is practically the 
 same. It tries something inventive (yes, its somewhat like CS but at the same time not) and refreshing. 
 The magic works extremely well... but if you don't know what you're doing, you will die... fast. 
 I personally love the art style. but i also loved Perfect Darks which most dispise.
  
  Pros:
  -Challenging gameplay
  -a ton of interesting, well designed maps that work well with 
 the mechanics
  -All races have their own Pros/Cons which make mastering replayable
  -Fun and refreshing
  
  Cons:
  -Some may dislike the art style
  -No single player (other 
 than training and bot battles)
  -Not for casuals 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkeletalKnight
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is certainly on the list of underrated games. As a total FPS fanatic, I will gladly be 
 plying Shadowrun for many hours to come. Shadowrun does a great job of blending the economic/round 
 based gameplay of Counter-Strike with the options and fast paced shooting of the Unreal Tournament 
 games. The inclusion of different races ensures that good teams will be made up of a variety of 
 races, who will take on different roles based on their race's characteristcs. The addition of the 
 spell and tech systems opens up TONS of options on how to specialize you character. A team can 
 no longer completely block off a room or hallway, because enemies can teleport in from the walls. 
 Killing an opponent is great, but if they have a teammate with Resurrect that Troll that gave you 
 so much grief the first time can be back up and fighting in seconds. This is a wonderfully made 
 game, with good balance, good variety, and great graphics. The Reviewers really dont give this 
 game the credit it deserves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nosferatu
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun seems to be a love it or hate it affair for many. I've enjoyed my limited experience 
 so far (in the range of 10 hours or so probably at the time of this review) .
  You can't go into this game expecting it to be what it is not. There is no single-player game, 
 no deep story background (despite its RPG roots ) , and not a huge amount of content. This amount 
 of content is probably the only real complaint with the game though. The lack of a single-player 
 element is really no knock to this game, particularly considering how multiplayer-centric most 
 shooters are becoming nowadays. It worked for UT and Quake 3, why not Shadowrun? How well its maps, 
 weapons, etc hold up over time is really the barometer of how this game should be judged, but unfortunately 
 that isn't feasible in this day of the review it now mentality. Thus, I will give you my impressions 
 as of now.
  The game seems well balanced and its concept fairly well fleshed out. The use of magic and tech 
 is a nice addition, but probably one you will have seen in some capacity in other games. Not that 
 this is a bad thing though, as we all know a refined combination of other games can be just as 
 great a game as a completely novel one. There is an intricate balance in place amongst these powers 
 that may not hit you until you do something that tries to counteract it. For instance, on defense 
 I was playing as a troll (the tanks of the world) that was utilizing the strangle power to block 
 off rooms, the smartlink targetting upgrade, and the resurrection ability. While I didn't think 
 of this when choosing these powers, the usage and maintenance of a strangle eliminated just enough 
 essence [see: mana] points to prevent me from rezzing people and vice versa. This nicely prevents 
 certain player combinations from becoming the cookie cutter setups you see in so many other games 
 with customizable powers. It also allows you to tailor a setup to your play style, offensive/defensive 
 role, etc without fearing that you've gimped yourself. The intricate balancing of these powers 
 shows that a lot of thought went into them behind the scenes in ways that you may never notice. 
 These powers and their mixing is what keeps the game new and refreshing even between numerous rounds 
 with the same people. Your experience with this game, due to its solely multiplayer nature, is 
 really dependent on the quality of these teammates and opponents though. Teamwork, effective balancing 
 of powers and races amongst a team, etc really makes for a far more rewarding experience. Due to 
 integrated voice with Live (both Windows and 360) you can be sure that the people you are playing 
 with should be using it. Communication, both of current status of the team and of strategy, is 
 key to winning effectively. The lone wolf in this game is not the most effective strategy and usually 
 results in a quick death (and subsequent body destruction preventing your resurrection) . This is 
 a testament to FASA getting their aim of a team based shooter into the game and ensuring that it 
 is how people play it. Unfortunately, it also closely ties your experience to the quality (and 
 not just their skill levels) of the other players around you. In the hands of a good group of players 
 this game can be filled with hilarious and shocking moments, battles of true thought and countering, 
 and a lot of fun.
  Yet this game is not without its flaws. The graphics are nothing spectacular, but are serviceable 
 by all means. Some of the effects (the glowing Tree of Life being my particular favorite) are really 
 rather beautiful. The characters have almost a claymation appearance to them in both their movements 
 and overall look (particularly the trolls) . The locales are fairly standard fare and appear as 
 such graphically as well. Essentially, the graphics are nothing that will (with a few rare exceptions) 
 make you stop and go Awww, purdy , but they aren't ugly enough to make you cringe when you see 
 them. In effect, they are undistracting either way.
  The sound of the game is one of my biggest complaints. Many of the weapons don't have that oomph 
 with the bass that guns usually do in shooters and that I enjoy immensely with a large subwoofer. 
 In fact, most of the sound effects of the weapons sound pretty generic overall. Again, like the 
 graphics, they are nothing to write home about and are merely serviceable to a slightly lesser 
 degree than the graphics. In addition, and perhaps this is a blessing in disguise, I have not noticed 
 any music in game yet. Given that this is a multiplayer only title, this may be a positive thing 
 as you won't have to listen to the same music over and over again. Instead you can utilize that 
 wonderful soundtracks feature of your 360. I can't help but wonder if music that changed depending 
 on the team's performance (other factors such as corpse hitpoints do) might have made it a bit 
 more engrossing.
  What I see as the biggest problem and the biggest question mark with this game is the amount of 
 content it has given its price. Had this game retailed for $40, I think its reception would have 
 been completely different. However, it is a full-fledged, $60 next gen game and thus must be evaluated 
 as such. As of my limited experience with the title, it seems well balanced and the maps appear 
 to be laid out well; particularly when you consider the usage of powers and how they can truly 
 alter a map's structure. If this game is as well-balanced as it appears to be upon first inspection, 
 the amount of content it shipped with may very well be quite a significant amount and give it a 
 lot of longevity. However, should any of these elements show weakness then the amount of content 
 will most likely be considered extremely lacking. Thus, the value of this game is truly difficult 
 too grasp. In addition, Live opens the possibility up that there may be downloadable content (free 
 or paid) that may extend this further. Even just a handful of new, free maps would probably drastically 
 alter many people's opinions of its value despite how difficult that element is to judge now and 
 for the next few months. If nothing else, consider that most popular multiplayer shooters often 
 devolve into a small set of the entire map collection anyway.
  
  In closing, take Shadowrun for what it is and don't expect it to be what it is not. If you do, 
 you will most likely be pleasantly surprised by the title. It does what it sets out to do (to provide 
 a solid, entertaining, somewhat new multiplayer experience) rather well. Examining Shadowrun from 
 a gameplay and entertainment perspective you could do far worse. For those that its concept really 
 clicks with, you will have found a little gem of a game. Most people will find a well rounded, 
 engaging, enjoyable shooter that has some neat tricks up its sleeve; and that isn't a bad thing 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyral1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, Microsoft's Shadowrun is basically Counter-Strike with magic. Its a great FPS that 
 combines an RPG twist unlike others. The Game concepts are amazing, its just the way its put together 
 that makes me upset. There's only 3 game modes, Bot Match, Tutorials, and Online, so if you dont 
 have Xbox live dont even think about paying 60 bucks for this game, but if you are heavy into Live 
 and the multiplayer FPS world I would highly recommend this extremely addictive shooter. The storyline, 
 although once again, a great concept, needs some work as well. I love the whole idea of defending 
 the sacred magic and trying to gain advantage of it depending on who you play as, but the fact 
 of the matter is, since its not backed by some great single player mode, no one could care less 
 about who you are. It's traditional Shoot the guy with red type of action. Shadowrun does however 
 expand on this by using races to strengthen gameplay. Your reaction is always going to be different 
 towards the many races. For example, you're going to react much differently toward a dwarf with 
 a pistol Vs. a Troll with a Minigun. The coolest part to shadowrun is the fact that, just as the 
 game's advertisment says, The rules of combat just changed . The ability to use Magic such as teleport 
 and Tech such as enhanced vision do indeed change the rules of combat. Its no longer possible to 
 hide with a sniper behind a wall or box because one could see right through it and teleport behind 
 you while forcing you to bleed to death from a swift slash of a katana. Overall Shadowrun is a 
 very addictive FPS with much to offer in the multiplayer aspect, but if you're in search of a game 
 with single player action and a more in-depth story, check out something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoenir
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  First, looking at this game purely from the gameplay and content stand point even leaves you wanting. 
 While mildly entertaining, this game feels like a glorified Counter-Strike mod. The game offers 
 a whole 3 game modes, 4 classes, a lackluster 8 avatar skins, 9 maps, and a handful of gear/spells. 
 The graphics are muddy at best and to top it all off the game is an online-only multiplayer game 
 with no splitscreen option.
  
  Second, as for the original fans, this game is Shadowrun in name only. Almost every ability included 
 in this game stands in direct contradiction to the canon of the establish IP, meaning every one 
 of the restricted/prohibitted or otherwise impossible aspects in the original universe are standard 
 fare in this game. So in conclusion if your a FPS fan pass this one up and wait for something worth 
 the money such as; The Darkness, Quake Wars, Crysis, Halo 3, Team Fortress 2 or any of the plethora 
 of good FPS on the horizon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southpark117
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe people continue to complain over the lack of a single player campaign in Shadowrun. 
 The game was marketed as a multiplayer shooter and it is fantastic at it. Unreal Tournament and 
 the Battlefield games didn't have single player modes other than bot matches either. The multiplayer 
 in Shadowrun is top notch and refreshing allowing me to play it for 5 hours straight, something 
 I havn't done in a long time. Don't allow the 6.9 rating from Gamespot to turn you off from this 
 game. The reviewer seemed to ignore the amazing gameplay and just focused on the few small negatives. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I hate to say this, as a longtime fan of the P&amp; P Shadowrun game, but this game doesn't satisfy 
 on any level. As soon as FASA announced that the game would be a multiplayer only shooter, I understood 
 that a deep RPG experience wasn't forthcoming, but I didn't think that meant the game had to be 
 bad. However, Shadowrun IS bad. The graphics are alright, if you can ignore some choppy animations. 
 The sound is nothing terrible, and nothing special. The RPG elements are weak implementations of 
 the Counterstrike buying system, but with magic... wheeee.
  
  Short on maps and polish, and long on borrowed from other games , Shadowrun makes no use whatsoever 
 of it's namesake except in the most token way. It begs the question: why make this a shadowrun 
 game? That aside, you will be struck almost instantly when playing Shadowrun (assuming you don't 
 get tired of waiting for servers) that this seems a lot more like a well made Counterstrike Mod, 
 than a poorly made $60 game. In fact, if this were a mod for CS, it would probably have enjoyed 
 a much shorter dev cycle, and been better off from a technical standpoint. Lord knows that there 
 is nothing going on in Shadowrun that an older engine couldn't do better. The bottom line is this: 
 If you wanted a shadowrun RPG... well you should have already known this wasn't it. If you wanted 
 a Shadowrun ANYTHING... this isn't it.
  If you want a new and innovative shooter... this isn't it.
  If you wanted enough maps to hold 
 your attention for more than a day... this isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justin021
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I gambled and bought this game on a whim on the 29th, and I'm not sorry one bit. The game just 
 plays awesomely, with the mix of races and magic and technology you can develop all sorts of different 
 fighting strategies. I have noticed no bullet lag like I do in gears, but that will probally depend 
 with connection speeds. The game modes are all pretty well variations of capture the flag. In which 
 you capture an artifact and run to a designated spot, or eliminate all of the other players to 
 win. There is also a mode where you just defend the artifact against enemy players; that is pretty 
 well all there is to the game modes. which alot of people seem to be upset about, but hey, in other 
 multiplayer games all you usually have is a deathmatch, king of the hill, and capture the flag 
 anyway. I would recommend renting or playing the demo on the 6th before I'd buy it though; because 
 60 dollars is steep if you don't like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad-man-mat
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  the only word that describes this game is wow! i have played this game many times and it is amazing, 
 it keeps changing every time... you can choose so many different ways to play (better than any other 
 fps on the 360) and it keeps you entertained every time. the game play i s very fun and the graphics 
 are good too. all i can say about this game is that it's a must have for anyone that has x-box 
 live, you will not regret it!! id does not matter that there is only nine maps... i only play on 
 4 any way. there are not many weapons but that does not matter because there is tech and magic, 
 the classes to choose from is a nice feature also it makes the gameplay different with each calss 
 you play. alot of people say that it is rather average without a single player storyline, but i 
 have to di
  sagree, the online play is SOO good there is no need for a campaign, it is a must have game in 
 short term!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: F1sTDaCuffS
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  the best multiplayer fps game online today. it takes mortal kombat and merges it with battlfield 
 2. this is not just your run of the mill fps. you have to understand the combos to build your fighter 
 first, then know what type of combo your going up against then learn the boards. all while playing 
 8 vs 8 online. in 1080p elite. the first true next gen FPS. what else do you want. if your looking 
 for a game that you can play a long time and not get bored of it then this is the one . its gonna 
 take everyone about 5 months to understand the true actualization of this game. then can you wonder 
 how much fun its going to be. endless online combinations, endless fights.. endless 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Violent-M
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Simply put this game is stunning. I forget when the last time was that I had this much fun in a 
 FPS. Being an Unreal fan I've always enjoyed standard shooters and shunned tactical or strategy 
 shooters but I've never had so much fun figuring out how to play the game better. Finally a strategic 
 shooter that isn't a chore to play.
  
  I won't sit here and tell you what all the races do or what all the powers do (you have the game 
 website and 99 percent of the other reviews to do that for you) but I can tell you they all serve 
 a purpose in the game and do so without being overall better or worse than others. The game does 
 a great job at staying balanced, or the ability to stay balanced. Clearly one who knows a spell's, 
 race's, and tech's strengths and weaknesses and how they will best serve them will shine above 
 the rest.
  
  For those of you looking to find out how this game compares to other current and popular shooters 
 or if it will take the place of said shooter I believe it can play with the big dogs. I'm a frequenter 
 of Gears of War, the Halo 3 Beta, Far Cry and I can say Shadowrun will be hailed as the imitated 
 but not duplicated game from now on. The game just makes one realize how dated our other favorites 
 are and how the genre needs that refreshing change it has now received. It has taken great risks 
 to make a dynamic and compelling experience and they payed off in the end. I won't say it surpasses 
 Gears of War, that's a general statement. But I will say it has dethroned Gears of War as my game 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brimstone-1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  A 110% in your face thinking mans team based shooter. Pick of one of four races, which you can 
 upgrade with magic spells, cyber-technology, and weapons. The great thing is you can shape your 
 abilities to excel in a support role if you don't want to be a armed to the teeth warrior. Casting 
 spells such as Tree of Life at strategic points of the map can really help out your team. Also 
 you can bring back fallen teammates back to life with the Resurrect spell. But unlike other games 
 where you might play a class such as a medic, in Shadowrun you can be very deadly in other area's 
 as well, like summoning minions, or casting strangle mines that impedes the enemies movement along 
 strategic routes. This flexibility makes engaging the enemy a unique experience time and time again. 
 You don't know what your foe might have up his sleeve, so you have to be quick witted and able 
 to adapt.
  
  I'm happy to say there is more than meets the eye to Shadowrun than just its pretty graphics. So 
 many games these days are cookie cutter in design, but not Shadowrun where your ability to creatively 
 think and employ strategies plays a big role.
  
  Bravo Shadowrun, Bravo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: he1ixx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect from this game. Multiplayer only? Cross-platform FPS? $60!? Surely 
 someone's off their rocker. Destructoid linked in a gameplay video on youtube on Monday however 
 and it really changed my thinking. I went from being extremely dubious to being excited by the 
 possibility of the power of choices, the variety based on race/tech/magic. I'm glad I bought it 
 despite the fears and bias being reported on forums and the lack of review content on the main 
 gaming news sites i frequent. Let me preface the scenario with the fact that I've had Forza2 pre-ordered 
 since November and its easily my most anticipated 360 game ever. After getting home with Forza2 
 and Shadowrun, I decided to check out both games briefly before settling in for a night of gaming 
 goodness. I put Forza2 into the tray, messed around in arcade mode, painted a car or two and was 
 very happy. I was ready to do some racing for the rest of the night. Wait, first let me put Shadowrun 
 in and check it out for a minute....
  
  6 hours later, I emerged from a gaming stupor. I had all of the Shadowrun tutorials completed, 
 many matches played online and a sense of amazement that I had done little racing the entire evening. 
 Shadowun is *that* addictive and engrossing. in a word, its simply awesome . I'll leave it to the 
 main gaming news sites to explain the intricate game mechanics and background of the game. I just 
 wanted to relate to whoever will listen/read that this is a game well worth your time and money 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganjasmugglin
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game pretty cool. It has the FPS aspect while trying to innovate a whole new type of genre. 
 That being a FPS magic game? The game is very easy to pick up but if you want to be good at it 
 you have to remember every magic spell you can do (100) different combinations and learn the counters 
 to them as well. Its all a little fast paced and before you know it if you did not spawn with a 
 tree or a minion you are dead in 5 sec or less which sucks. Maybe if they did not eat 100% sugar 
 while making this game it might have a better review. And the fact that there is not even a little 
 bit of a single player campaign can discourage people from buying this game. Overall they nailed 
 the multiplayer down to an exact science. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AperfectCleanup
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This is truly an inovative new spin on a grossly overdone genre. It has a similar control scheme 
 to popular tiltes such as Halo or Call of Duty, but on top of that they add the round based upgrade 
 purchasing of Counter Strike. Then they throw the real kicker in by adding an arsenal of magic 
 and techno upgrades. This makes the game easy to play competitivly with the more intimidating FPS 
 players, an example of this is how if you have trouble aiming you can simply purchase magic that 
 will allow you to heal or ressurect an ally and you instantly become a very useful member. I think 
 this game is deserving of alot of praise, I also think this should go up for game of the year, 
 but I know it will get held down by fanboys of games like Gears of War, or Halo, or Cally of Duty. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbtrey3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I have been following this game for a while and purchased it with high expectations. After about 
 12 hours of playing I feel that I am ready to share with everyone which of those expectations have 
 been met and which were a letdown.
  
  I'd like to begin by emphasizing that this is only a multiplayer game. Don't expect any single 
 player campaign or even playing split screen with you and some friends. If you purchase this game 
 for this type of gameplay you will be making the wrong decision. This game is designed solely for 
 multiplayer over Xbox Live or PC. (FYI- review based on Xbox experience)
  
  As I mentioned I had high expectations for this game. I expected an amazing and revolutionary multiplayer 
 experience and I expected above average graphics based on the screenshots and footage I've watched 
 on various websites.
  
  My first expectation of a great multiplayer experience was met and exceeded in some ways. The various 
 spells and tech abilities make this game different than any other FPS I've previously played. These 
 abilities are more than just gimmicky items. Each player must carefully select their abilities, 
 and different combinations will create significantly different playstyles. For example, a player 
 can chose to be an elf (fast, high mana, and regenerates health) with a katana as a weapon and 
 smoke, teleport, and refexes as their spells. This would create a character who can disappear and 
 re-appear in a split second, kill someone in one or two hits, reflect most bullets, and become 
 immune to all damage. Sounds almost unbeatable right? Not quite. For example, take the build combination 
 of a Troll (high health, low mana, strong armor) with a tree of life, super aiming, force push, 
 and a mini gun. This character can take a tremendous amount of damage, heal itself under the tree 
 of life, lock on to almost any target, and can damage characters with the smoke ability. The Elf 
 in my previous example will have an extremly difficult time trying to stop this player.
  
  This is what makes this game so unique. The tremendous amount of customization options for your 
 playstyle and the perfected balance on behalf of the developers.
  
  The expectation I had that was a let down is with the graphics. Of course I did not expect GOW 
 style graphics but I did expect something a little more detailed and clean looking. My biggest 
 complaint comes with the character models. There are two factions, pretty much red and blue guys. 
 The problems is that the characters are not very detailed and the lighting in some areas can make 
 it hard to distinguish between friend and foe. This leads to a lot of friendly fire and takes away 
 from the whole experience. This was by far my biggest complaint but overall I don't mind sacrificing 
 this for the excellent gameplay and smooth framerate we got in return.
  
  Overall, If you are a fan of FPS games and are looking for something different, complex, and addictive 
 then give this game a try. For me I am much more concerned with gameplay over sound and graphics 
 and this is where the game delivers. If you feel the same way, you will not be disappointed with 
 Shadowrun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgabrielson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  If you played Call of Duty 3's multiplayer in every possible configuration 20 times longer than 
 its single player campaign then you are in store for a treat.
  
  If you didnt even finish Battlefield 2's single player because it couldnt provide quite the same 
 sense of victory or defeat as online play then you are in luck this summer.
  
  If you find butting heads against computer AI often lacking depth, reality, or purpose in all the 
 single player local play games out there and need human competition to feel like you are really 
 playing then SHADOWRUN has arrived and is right for you buddy.
  
  The outcry will be large on this one, and the spamming has begun. The shocked and offended 360 
 consumers out there that resent a non single player campaign game are already gnashing their teeth 
 and tearing their hair out over Shadownrun. NO Single Player Campaign?! Thats Preposterous! How 
 could you?! What a Rip Off! A Pox upon this house! They scream into the night and onto their blogs.
 
  
  -- I say, THIS is real gaming you pansies. 
  
  The most sold, most played game of all time is counterstrike, and its all online. Its a milestone, 
 a classic, a bedrock of the video gaming industry. I remember when my brother was losing his job 
 because of too much counterstrike and we would hypothesize the coolness of a medieval or fantasy 
 counterstrike. We could spend hours thinking up the possibilities of that one. (Our ideas usually 
 got bogged down in all the melee however.)
  
  And here by the grace of god, someone has done it, better than we dreamed of. Its Goooooooooooood. 
 Like really Gooood. This ones going to go far and people are going to play it for a long time. 
 There are so many more options and variables and therefore tactics and strategies than in most 
 FPS. Team tactics are highle emphasized, so I imagine we will begin to see domination in the near 
 future of clans. Get your groups together soon, because this game really excels when you are working 
 with your team.
  
  This is mainly all the points I wanted to say. Other reviews give more game mechanics so go read 
 those. But I wanted to put my two cents in and here they are in summary. ---&gt; Near Perfect FPS 
 based upon the master games of the past, with a cool concept design, strong tactic and team strategy 
 focus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoneWolfRei
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Shadowrun is an extremely ambitious game that takes many risk! It works off of a very familiar 
 formula that is very different. It excels where others horrible fail, and fails where others excel 
 with flying colors. Graphics: It is a pretty game, mind you I am not saying it is ground breaking 
 by any means. Do not come into this game expecting some Gears of War quality of visuals, but it 
 is not that shabby. It has some very nice lighting and has some good shadowing to it. On a negative 
 side however, while from a distance in 3rd person, the character textures look pretty good, but 
 if you see them up close you will see where the textures are supposed to come together is a sharp 
 noticeable line between the arms, torso, legs, you get the point. Also the gun textures while nothing 
 that I havent seen before, are not that great for the 360. The Setting of all the maps are varied 
 between all the maps, you will see the normal boring office building setting and you will see a 
 ruin with a constant maelstrom in the center and a dark cloud separating the top of the level from 
 the bottom. In all honesty, the graphics are not where this game shines. Story: Wish I could help 
 you out here but franklythere isnt one. There is no single player in this game, other that bot 
 matches., and what story they do have. Is explained to you through the training tutorial, and I 
 skipped all of them, and I assume everyone else did as well. This is NOT like the classic shadow 
 run at all! It is a unique first person shooter that has RPG elements and is a strictly only game. 
 That is your story, did we need a story for counter-strike? No, and look at where it is at now. 
 Sound: Standard sounds, all the guns sound how they should and all the magics and techs sound 
 like they should, nothing amazing in this department, it has an announcer to help tell you the 
 position of the enemy, your team, and the artifact (flag) . The music and background sounds while 
 in the menus is a tad bit annoying. It consist of dark sounds and distorted techno voices in the 
 background, which I do not particularly care for. Gameplay: This is where the game shines above 
 all! The game this can be best compared to is counter-strike with a twist. This entire game takes 
 place online or against bots. THERE IS NO SINGLE PLAYER STORY! The game takes place in round and 
 there are two teams, and CAN have up to 8 people on each team for 16 player games. You can either 
 play as the RNA or The Linage. Both sides play exactly the same except for on a certain game type 
 the RNA is Defending a flag while The Linage is trying to steal it and get it back to their base.
 
  Before the game starts you pick one of four different races. Each race has its own strength and 
 weakness to it. I will break it down real quick so everyone can have a little better understanding 
 of what I am talking about.
  
  Human- They are a very balanced class. Think of them as a Jack of All Trades, Good at all but Master 
 of None. It should also be noted that the humans penalties on any skill they use to their mana, 
 The Humans have balanced stats and can hold their own. This is the best starting character you 
 can use in my opinion. It should also be noted that humans start off in matches with more money 
 than the rest of the races. Elf- The Elf is the fastest of the four races. It has decent damage 
 out put has pretty good mana output however it doesnt have that much health and if it runs into 
 a mini gun or shotgun, they will most likely be dead in one shot. It should also be noted that 
 the Elf can naturally regenerate their health by taking cover and staying out the way of fire. 
 Most of the time you will see the elf wielding a katana hiding in the shadows and stalking people 
 waiting for them to turn their back and then come up, slash you once, and quickly run away or teleport 
 away before you even knew what happened. Why did they run away after one slash? Because that one 
 slash from behind will make you bleed out in a second or two and you will be dead and waiting for 
 a revive. This is probably one the hardest races to master, but can perhaps be the most dangerous. 
 They also work very well as a sniper. Dwarf- The Dwarf is the best support character in my opinion, 
 and this little guy can take down a troll like they are small fries. The Dwarf has the highest 
 mana of all the characters and is very tough little guy to boot. He has decent speed, and decent 
 damage output., but this little guy doesnt have much health. He has lots of mana but it regenerates 
 very slowly, however, he can steal many from magic objects, enemies, allies anything really to regenerate 
 their own mana. The trick is that he has to be in about a 3 ft. radius of whatever they want to 
 drain the mana from. This is a good tactic to use against a troll as well. As the troll takes damage 
 he gets tougher at the cost of his mana. If the dwarf is close and drains its mana and opens up 
 fire on it, it will take down the other wise unstoppable troll in no time. Having so much mana, 
 the Dwarf can cast many revives and trees of lifes and even summons if needed, making them a great 
 support character. There should always be a least 2 dwarves in a 8 people party to keep the team 
 alive for the longest amount of time. It should also be noted that the dwarf can survive a sniper 
 headshot one time, which no other race can. This is like in counter-strike when you buy a helmet, 
 same thing. Troll: Alright on the tank! Alright this guy is a raw power of any team! You will see 
 one of these guys on the front lines firing their gun like a mad man and you should watch out cause 
 trust me, they will kill you, very fast. Very fast.. The troll is not. The troll is the slowest 
 of all the races and has the least amount of mana. However, he does have the most health and has 
 the most damage output. The Troll has a very unique ability. When he takes damage his body get 
 harder and harder at the cost of some of his mana, in turn, the harder his skin gets the less damage 
 bullets will have on him. However, if he has no mana, his skin will not get harder and will die 
 just as fast as a human will. Also when their skin gets harder they get even slower. It should 
 also be noted the troll is the only race that doesnt have a speed penalty when he uses the mini 
 gun.
  
  That is about sums up the races, you pick which one you fits your playing style the most. Once 
 the game starts you start out with a set amount of cash to buy weapons, spells, and techs. Buy what 
 you need and assign it to either your LT, LB, or RB Buttons for quick use. Before I go on much more 
 I will give a quick synopsis of some of the weapons, magic, and techs
  
  Weapons
  
  Pistol-You start out with it, it does do a good amount of damage, but dont take it to a fire fight 
 against a troll. SMG- Standard Sub Machine Gun, fire in short, controlled burst and you will be 
 fine
  Rifle-Powerful and has a zoom feature, best to use at long distance, not to be used at close quarters
 
  Shotgun- Close quarters weapon, use it ONLY at close quarters. Very powerful.
  Mini Gun-Trolls Best friend, this gun can tear through people like no other but it will slow you 
 down a little (unless you are a troll) also need a short amount of time to get it going. Katana- 
 A Japanese Longsword, very dangerous if in the hands of someone who knows how to wield it. If you 
 sneak up behind someone it can instant kill them, Also, when you use this weapon you will be in 
 3rd person view. This is a good weapon but hard to master, every elf should carry one at least 
 as secondary. Sniper Rifle- Very powerful, two hits in the body will kill anyone, one in the head 
 (cept for a dwarf. It has two levels of zoom and you have to be zoomed in to shoot, other wise 
 it will just melee. Only a long distance weapon. Rocket Launcher- Self Explanatory. It has very 
 little ammo and does a lot of damage. Magic
  
  Tree Of Life-Plant it and all allies and enemies within a 10ft. Radius health will regenerate until 
 someone destroys it. It holds mana in reserve. Revive-Very important spell, everyone should have 
 one. Use it to revive your fallen team mates. But watch out if you die after you revived someone, 
 the person you revived will start bleeding out until someone comes to revive him before he dies. 
 This also works vise versa. Holds mana in reserve.
  Gust-Knock people back, also used to damage and unsmoke people who are using smoke. Smoke- Use 
 it and you will be invisible and invincible (cept to gust) . It will drain mana as you use it. Good 
 tactic for getting away. Elfs Best friend. Teleport- Explains its self. You can teleport through 
 walls, floors, barriers, it doesnt matter. Good for getting away or getting to things faster. Strangle- 
 Place Traps of spikes out on the ground to keep enemies out of unwanted places. Summon- Cast a 
 spirit to defend and kill opponents until its independent mana depletes. Techs
  
  Glider-Glide through the air to get to higher places and fly from place to place (very useful)
 
  Smartlink- Gives better accuracy with weapons, gives zoom with all weapons, and also will not 
 let you shoot any of your allies, reducing your amount of team kills when you are running wild 
 with a mini gun. Good for trolls and snipers. Enhanced Vision- Can see through walls and will display 
 enemies on your screeen. Wired Reflexes- Everything about you speeds up. Also if you are using 
 a katana, if you are looking at someone who is firing at you, you can block most of their bullets 
 with the katana. Watch out when you USE this tech though, you will sacrifice some of your health. 
 Ant magic Generator- Throw this grenade and it will drain mana of anyone or anything within its 
 radius. Good for killing trolls, or taking out trees of life.
  Grenade-.. it is a grenade
  
  Okay with all that out of the way (I know it is extremely complex 
 and take awhile to get the hang of all of it.) , depending on which of the three game mode you get, 
 you will either be trying to capture the flag, trying to steal the flag from the enemies base, 
 or just team death match. All three of the modes play similar which is kind of crappy. Kill people. 
 Get money, buy more stuff. Work with your team or fail horribly. The rest comes very natural. It 
 is very fast paced, but it doesnt matter who has the quickest trigger finger, this of this like 
 a big game of chess that you can infact turn the tide of with real time action. There is no online 
 ranking system, and you find games online automatically. Very fast and very simple. Also another 
 BIG feature is the ability to play with players on the PC. Now before you get all pissy and say 
 thats not fair! They have more of an edge, with a mouse and keyboard!. Yeah. They dont! They 
 seem to play on the same level that all of us 360 players do. Controls: Very complex yet simple, 
 it will take sometime to figure out all the controls but when you do, it will come like second 
 nature. Replay Value: Very High, If you like this game, you will be hooked! And play it over and 
 over and over. The achievements will keep you going for a VERY LONG time including a secrete one, 
 unlike any you have ever heard of before. Summary: This game is not for everyone, by any means! 
 It is for people who have an open mind to play new games, and if you are just looking for a run 
 and gun, brainless shooter, pleasestay away from this game. This is the thinking mans FPS. It 
 may be hard for some people to get past the $60 price tag, if that is what you are beating yourself 
 up over, rent it first. It is an excellent game and a great experience. It only has 9 maps and 
 only has 3 different game modes. If you can get past all of that, you will find a game that has 
 so much charm, you will not want to put it down. Hope this review helped you and if you liked it 
 please feel free to tell me. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurtlawman
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  As I said before it is a great concept but with the lack of any thing but capture the flag. (basicly 
 red vs blue ) it lakes any good single player content online this gane rocks. using magic to teleport 
 cybernictics to see your enimes behind walls. It is a good cocept I would have just liked to have 
 seen more than just the one team fighting the other. over all rent first if you are not on line. 
 and if you are on line i would still recomend you rent first even with the concept the same battles 
 over and over get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishfood2004
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I have to say, there is a lot of games out there that are focusing on multi player 360 games, but 
 this title really stands out. The amazing graphics, magic and shooting adds up to one great multi 
 player, and single player game. The multi player (2-16 people) have an amazing design going with 
 the vista to 360 battles, with the combination it means that there will always be people wanting 
 to play. Also, for those who dont have a live account, the single player is defiantly not the 
 best I have seen but it is still a lot of fun for anyone who wants to buy this game. A must have 
 for either PC or 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaloArchAngel
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Some nice options in the game give some fresh aspects to the FPS style. The purchase weapons magic 
 option while nice idea, make it all that much harder for people learning the game. For $60 the 
 total lack of a Campaign or story mode, make this an unrealistic price point for the limited game 
 play
  If you do not play on-line this game is not for you. Graphics look good &amp; sound is ok. Bot 
 option is well done &amp; even make it seem as if you are in a real game.
  I would definately rent this game first as I did. Even for a week rental. I think at the end of 
 the week you will probably have your fill of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FamilyGuyFan507
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  Remember those ol'days when you popped in your SNES and sat down on your 80's lined and colored 
 couches and played games in front of you 10inch t. v. screen with a 100 pound t. v. projecting your 
 gaming images, well this is the greatness you had back then and your getting now.
  
  Shadowrun, was a well thought out game first brought during the days of 8bit games and crackheads, 
 to show you what people can do with Magic, Guns, swords, and techonology at there disposal, to 
 an amazing stand point.
  
  The wonderful game of Shadowrun takes you to our timeline in which humans find a ancient Mayan 
 ruins that contains the powerful and amazing wonders of Magic . In 2011 RNA Global a very powerful 
 corporation sent out research teams to identify and bring back this magic for there use, so lets 
 get throught the really confusing yahdadyahad hoo hoo, crap you really don't care about okay. Anywho, 
 Some how humans become mutated and create Trolls, Dwards, and Elves all who have different amazing 
 attributes, built and money. The paragraph i just gave you in detail, pretty much is the whole 
 entire story you will recieve in Shadowrun.
  
  If you are loooking to buy this game for Single Player Purposes You might also want to revisit 
 the place where you bought this game and return it, this is a whole centered online based FPS shooter. 
 This game is the first to show online only play, you can play singleplayer, but only Tutorial and 
 Bot Solo Games, Tutorial will honestly take you 35 minutes to complete, so theree is no real Single 
 Player but don't get me wrong the online is down run unbelieveable.
  
  When you first jump online, you will experiencee a while wait, sometimes 2 minutes some times 20 
 minutes, depending on whos on and how good the connection. When you join a room you will be in 
 a room lobby , quickly piick your race and join in the game. When you get in you will see a Buy 
 Menu (much like a brother to Counter Strike) where you can buy guns, magic, tech or even give money 
 to your helpfully insane teammates. When your done doing that, prepare to explore the wonders of 
 Shadowrun as you can teleport through any wall, glide up to tall buildings, shoot from across the 
 map and fire off rounds of Machine gun ammunition as you laugh and have endless fun for hours, 
 beofre you relieze you spent 8 hours of playing this game, hell thats what i pretty much did. The 
 quality you get out of this game is gonna lack in areas, plain and simple, the sound quality isn't 
 the greatest, you will get the plain and sometimes repettivie RATRTATAT of your machine guns and 
 the BOOM of your shotgun, but thats it. But be prepare, online gives you the most fun and the most 
 fun you will probably most recievve through Xbox Live as you can even play with Windows PC Vista 
 Users, which is down right amazing. Like i have said in the past and i will say it now, this game 
 at first for any person whatsoever is utterly overwhelming, programming magic to buttons can be 
 a problem for begginners and sword play and gun shooting could take a while, but overall this game 
 is downright fun and very playable to most people.
  
  The biggest thing i see this game having a problem with is people saying it relates to many games 
 and is to much like those, well they might be right they might be wrong, but you will see alot 
 of similar feels to games like Unreal Tournment and Counter Strike, but overall this game feels 
 and plays different.
  
  Well, i hope you found this review helpful to you, i got this game the first day it came out and 
 i've docked my time to around 16 hours of play on it, its down right awesome and i reccommend it 
 to everyone and anyone with patience and the will to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienhunter187
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  In 2011, the Unexplained Genetic Expression began in the world when elves and dwarves were born 
 to seemingly normal human parents. These metahumans become a part of society over time. As the 
 years went on, many juveniles and adults began turning into orks and trolls as part of the re-emergence 
 of magic in the land. Just as society was coming to terms with the advanced technology they had 
 begun to harness, magic comes back. In South America, an ancient relic of immense power is discovered. 
 The Lineage, a group of terrorists who want to harness the idol's powers, launch guerrilla attacks 
 against the RNA, one of the major corporations of the time, in an attempt to secure the idol. The 
 RNA fights back with weapons and magic of their own.
  
  Despite the original storyline and the namesake of the game which hearkens back to the great pen-and-paper 
 cyberpunk RPG that started in the late 80s, the new Xbox 360/Windows Vista shooter offers no single-player 
 campaign whatsoever. The opening cinematic and tutorial missions are the only insight into the 
 storyline of the game, if that is what it can be called. At its core, Shadowrun is a fast-paced 
 Counter-Strike-esque multiplayer shooter.
  
  The most disappointing facet of Shadowrun is its lack of a singleplayer campaign. The game functions 
 just fine and is, indeed, one of the best online experiences for the Xbox 360. But with such an 
 immense amount of lore to draw from, FASA could have made a 6-8 hour campaign. There are six tutorial 
 missions that a player can play through to get the feel of the game. Each mission offers a step-by-step 
 instruction of the different parts of the game including everything from firing your weapon at 
 a target to blocking incoming bullets with a wired reflex katana. After you go through the tutorial, 
 you're placed in a bot match to test out your new traits. The difficulty can be adjusted for each 
 battle so you should not be overwhelmed at any point. An easy 10 point achievement after each bot 
 match is also incentive to trudge through them.
  
  After you've completed the tutorial missions, it's time to take your skills online to battle other 
 Shadowrunners. There are two types of online battles: private match and public match. The interface 
 will seem similar to Halo 2 players. If you choose public match, you'll be sent into a screen that 
 says its finding a game for you. As soon as a game is found, you choose your character and enter 
 it. Many times, the system will place you in a game that's already being played, so you'll have 
 to watch the match through a spectator cam until the round is over. Usually, the rounds only last 
 two or three minutes so you won't have to wait for too long.
  
  There are two teams: the RNA and the Lineage. Each team plays exactly the same, the only difference 
 is their appearance. The Lineage look like a native population with orange headbands and face paint. 
 The trolls are the most noticeable with their bright orange skin and white face paint. The RNA 
 look more plain with blue and gray uniforms. The trolls are dark-brown skinned with a mohawk. You're 
 placed on a team at the beginning of the match. Usually, it's the team that has the least amount 
 of players. You can choose between being a human, elf, troll or dwarf. Each race offers its advantages 
 and disadvantages, depending on your play style. The human is the basic race. It can use technology 
 better than any of the other races but lacks in essence for the magic. The elf is the fastest race 
 in the game but takes damage a lot easier than anybody else. It has more essence than the human 
 and troll and can also regenerate health, unlike the other races. The troll is a tank. It's big 
 and slow but can take a lot of damage. When it gets shot, the skin hardens up into a protective 
 shell. They can also carry the larger weapons, like the minigun, easier than the other races. The 
 troll is not very useful with essence and magic.
  
  The last race is the dwarf. Old fans of Goldeneye 007 will either rejoice or tremble in fear if 
 they ever played Golden Gun matches against Oddjob. The dwarf is the shortest of all the characters 
 and possibly the hardest to hit. They have the most essence, but they recover it very slowly. However, 
 if they get near opponents or even teammates, they will drain essence from them to refill their 
 own. The dwarf can also drain essence from and clear strangle with little effort. After you've 
 picked your race, you'll be taken to the game. At the beginning of each round, similar to Counter-Strike, 
 you have a certain amount of money, which you will use to buy your weapons, magic and tech. There 
 are near-limitless combinations. There is teleport, which will move you further in the direction 
 you're moving including through walls and other obstacles. Revival will revive teammates near you. 
 Smartlink will help your aim and actually lock on to the enemy. There other magic and tech items 
 that you can play around with an experiment with.
  
  Each item has a number of yellow circles next to it. That is the amount of essence it will take. 
 In the lower-right corner of the screen, there is a column of these same circles. When you activate 
 a magic item, you will drain a certain amount of those circles from your essence. If you use a 
 tech item, there will be a certain amount that are locked for the tech. The game becomes a chess 
 match in balancing the use of tech with the use of magic.
  
  Due to its immense customization, no game will ever play the same as the last one. You might face 
 a whole army of trolls in one game with machine guns and the name game there might be an army of 
 dwarves gliding through the air dropping grenades. There are two basic gametypes: team elimination 
 and capture the flag. In team elimination, the first team to kill everyone on the other team wins, 
 it's as simple as that. The other gametype consists of different variants of capture the flag. 
 The flag, in Shadowrun, is a glowing blue idol. In one variant, the RNA have to defend the idol 
 for six rounds and the Lineage have to capture it six times. The first team to defend or capture 
 it six times, wins. In another variant, both teams are fighting over the idol. In a third variant 
 which is a cross between team elimination and capture the flag, whoever holds the idol will be 
 able to see everybody on the enemy team, no matter where they are at.
  
  While the gametypes seem anemic, and there could easily be more, the game never gets stale. Even 
 when you die, you're still not out of it yet. If you go down, you can be revived by another teammate 
 if they have the revival spell. There's one catch, if that teammate dies, you begin to bleed out. 
 The only way to survive is if another teammate revives you or you stay near a healing tree. The 
 graphics are not as polished as the gameplay. There are some awkward animations and even a lack 
 of animations in some areas. If you have the katana equipped, you'll go into a third person view. 
 When you see the running animation, it looks as if your character is ice skating. The katana swinging 
 is also very weak. There's a lunge with the katana (think Halo 2 sword) that sometimes has an animation, 
 sometimes it doesn't. In some instances, you hear a swing and then you are dead, even though the 
 player is still in front of you.
  
  There is no animation for going up a ladder. You still hold your gun in the normal position and 
 it looks like you just walk up the ladder like a spider. It's the most jarring problem with the 
 animation in the game.
  
  Most of the maps look stunning with the lighting and color pallet. One map consists of multiple 
 levels that are fought in fog with a blue beam in the center. There are some frantic firefights 
 with people teleporting and playing cat and mouse with the clouds.
  
  The movement can seem floaty at first like you're not playing with normal gravity. But it's a feeling 
 that passes over time and you become used to it. The controls are very tight, similar to Halo. 
 There is aim assist and magnetism in the game to help balance the cross-platform play.
  
  There is no indication or identifier for Vista players. If they are there, you probably won't even 
 notice them. FASA has done an excellent job in balancing out the gameplay between the two as to 
 not give one side or the other an unfair advantage. The game retails for $60 which will be the 
 most costly barrier toward its success. It ships with only nine maps and variants for a handful 
 of those. While the maps are excellent looking and are all balanced for the magic and technology, 
 one can only wonder with a five year development cycle, why weren't there more maps?
  
  Downloadable content has been promised for Shadowrun with continued support from developers. Let's 
 hope the content is free considering the steep price of admission for the game. However, if you 
 like multiplayer shooters or are just a first person shooter fan, Shadowrun is a game that should 
 not be missed. If the online community stays together, Shadowrun could be this year's Chromehounds: 
 an online game with endless hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suharar
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  I have to say i have been pleasantly suprised by this game. I like alot of others were wary since 
 its only a multiplayer title, but so far i have spent as much time as i would spend on any single 
 player game. Its hard to nail down what exactly makes this game so addictive, after all theres 
 plenty of fps games with multiplayer so what makes this any different?
  Well for me its the overall package, the framerate is consistant throughout the game, the maps 
 are well designed even though theres only nine maps.
  Theres four distinct races to choose from, human, elves, dwarves and trolls.
  Each with their 
 strengths and weaknesses, an ideal team would consist of all four races. Alot of time has been 
 spent in balancing the races, weapons, tech and magic, and it shows. I'm not going to go into all 
 the different skills and magic, but it works and should provide alot of entertainment for some 
 time. It would have been nice if there was also a single player campaign too, after all alot of 
 the content they put into the multiplayer game would have worked really well in a single player 
 game, but i'm ok with whats here for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 420Braindead
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  I must saw say that this is one heck of a game. A little hard to learn at first but once you get 
 the hang of it , the rewards are great. Like i said this game is a lot like Counter-Strike but 
 with magic and no to little cheating ( that i have encountered) I suggest renting this game first 
 if you are not a big fan of the FPS genre. I also suggest playing a few Bot matches before you 
 go online because this way you can get used to the 'buy menu' and figure out what configuration 
 works best for you. If you are an achievement freak I suggest going else where because it would 
 take a while to get all of these. Big plus is the cross platform play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anarchy_519
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  there once was a time where i too was a skeptic of SR. That time has passed and i have seen the 
 light. my buddy and i were at the local gamestop, playing some guitar HERO!! when all of a sudden 
 i saw that they had some units of SR in. I told my buddy that we should buy this game, so i bought 
 one for myself and he bought one for himself. The next 12 hours of my life i was hooked on this 
 game. The gameplay is so innovative, sure there are not that many weapons but the powers make up 
 for it... as you have probably heard if you have read any other reviews. What makes this game so 
 much fun is the fact that it actually uses teamwork, i never... ever... ever used my mic for any 
 game before this game, because on other games you only play with whiney little 12 year olds... I 
 WANTT A COWW is a perfect example... i hate that guy. You need to use the mic because the team needs 
 to know which powers you have, if you are a healer, tank, or NINJA... yes you can be a ninja if 
 you use the right moves. I think what makes this game so fair is the fact that there are no leaderboards, 
 which is a bummer, but think about it. They made this game just to have fun. Any gamer who wants 
 a game just to play because its fun, this is the game for you. nobody gets that mad if you team 
 kill them. AND NO ONE CHEATS!!!! its so great. That was the biggest problem with me, i thought 
 all the PC players would find a way to mod their game... which they can still do, but its pretty 
 pointless.
  
  P. s. the graphics are great too... dont listen to anybody bashing them... it goes perfect with the 
 game, and the ragdoll physics are hilarious, its the best when someone is gliding across the skies 
 and he gets sniped... HAHA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finegas
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Really fun to play online, graphics are really good, soundtrack and sound effects are ok. A must 
 for multiplayer junkies. Magic is something really new and refreshing comparing to the rest of 
 the FPS out there. When you find yourself shooting at an enemy and in an instant, after an orange 
 daze, your shooting at the wind and your suddenly recieving showers of bullets on your back, it 
 gives a whole new meaning to the deathmatch or capture the flag multiplayer classic modes. So bottom 
 line, this game is really worth playing, but I would suggest renting it first, due to the lack 
 of a single player mode, or at least giving the deathmatch scene a story (much like Unreal Tournament, 
 where you could play the same type of game againt human oponents or bots, but with a story in the 
 middle, giving you at least motivation in playing alone) . In my personal opinion, I would have 
 really liked a single player mode to understand the story a little better, and give the game a 
 little more substance. Bottom line if you like FPS just to get it on in multiplayer, this is the 
 game for you, but if you enjoy a story besides just killing everything in your path, maybe you 
 should save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dn3datomiced
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is the latest first person shooter from FASA Interactive, known for its Mechassault and 
 Crimson Skies franchises. FASA has brought another of its RPG franchises to Xbox, and while the 
 transition from pen-and-paper to pixels-and-polygons makes Shadowrun purists weep, the end product 
 is one of the most innovative and addictively entertaining shooters to come out in a while.
  
  There's a little backstory to the game, as the wild premise requires a bit of explanation, 
 but once it serves its purpose of setting the scene, it quietly goes away, and the game is no worse 
 off for it. After about 5 millenia, magic returns to the world, giving birth to physical mutations 
 that produce a number of different races: Humans, Elves, Dwarfs, Trolls, and Orks, though Orks 
 are not present in the game through a backstory element. When this magic returns, two groups step 
 up to claim it. The RNA Corporation seeks to seize the magic and control it, purportedly to keep 
 it from falling into the wrong hands. The Lineage, however, seeks to keep the magic so that it's 
 free to everyone. The game essentially plays out skirmishes for control of a powerful artifact 
 that will aid either side in its ultimate goals.
  
  One of the first differences in this game is the presence of races, Each race has its own abilities 
 which help you. Humans, still being the common denominator, tend to have more money, and are more 
 attuned to technology, allowing them to use it with no ill-effects to their essence. Elves are 
 faster than other classes, and have regenerating abilities at the cost of physical durability and 
 raw strength. Dwarves have a large pool of essence, but don't regenerate it very quickly. To compensate, 
 if they near anything that contains essence, they will drain it for themselves. They also have 
 a thick skull, literally, that prevents bullets from causing critical damage. And then, there are 
 trolls. The big, horned, hulking masses of hurt whose skin hardens when attacked, and who can lug 
 any equipment like a sheet of paper. They're just not very fast to begin with, causing them to 
 fall behind in combat more often than not.
  
  The big draw of the game is the use of technology and magic in the struggle for power in Santos, 
 Brazil. Players can turn their bodies to smoke, create jagged crystals to dissuade attackers, teleport 
 through solid objects in any direction, produce torrents of wind, deflect bullets with swords and 
 run like the wind using wired reflexes, soar through the air with gliders, see through walls with 
 enhanced eyesight, suck the magic out of anything that walks by with an anti-magic generator, heal 
 others with a live-giving tree, and even bring friends back from the grave. As you can see from 
 that description alone, there's a lot that can go on in a match of Shadowrun. Combine that with 
 the unique race abilities, and watch the possibilities multiply exponentially. It's not just about 
 the guns, like most other shooters. There's so much more depth.
  
  The graphics of the game are a treat, too. While they're not Gears of War, they still look especially 
 polished, with some really posh effects employed during magic. Each race has two models, depending 
 upon which team you're on, and they look quite detailed, making them fairly easy to discern from 
 one another, so you don't have to do too much guessing on the battlefield. You can even tell what 
 abilities your foes have by subtle effects, like enemies trailing smoke, or projecting a targeting 
 laser from their eyes. All and all, everything has a nice graphcial touch to it that's hard to 
 ignore.
  
  The biggest catch of Shadowrun, though, is the multi-player nature of the game. Most of the game's 
 action is seen online through Xbox Live, and if you don't subscribe to Live Gold, you're going 
 to be limited to LAN games and single player bot matches. USUALLY, that's the kiss of death for 
 a game like this, but the catch is that the game isn't brought down by the bots. They actually 
 elevate the experience, and they teach teamwork, too. When you're setting up a match, you have 
 direct control over how many bots are on each team, which team you'll be on, and if you want a 
 random sampling of different races, or if you want to set one team or the other to be all one race. 
 The bots in-game behave quite wonderfully, calling out enemies when they see them, buying and deploying 
 a varied spread of powers, and using those powers well, too, I might add. Normally, I don't recommend 
 games that rely on bots for offline play, but for Shadowrun, I was enjoying my experience playing 
 with them so much that I'll make an exception here. It never feels like the same match twice, even 
 with AI.
  
  The bottom line is this: Shadowrun is a wonderfully innovative game that will be thoroughly and 
 endlessly enjoyed online, and if you don't have the privilege of playing online right now, the 
 offline experience is surprisingly fresh and engaging, for the 1st or 51st time. I wholeheartedly 
 recommend it to anyone who wants a new and innovative gameplay formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paint_Chips
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  *This wound up longer than I thought it would be. If it's too long for your taste, hit the bottom 
 paragraph.
  
  For those who don't know, Shadowrun was originally a pen and paper role-playing game that came 
 out in the 80's (takes place around 2050 AD) , and remains the worlds 3rd most popular RPG to this 
 day. But, in all honesty, that has nothing to do with this review.
  
  This game, while named after and loosely based on the revered RPG, is vastly different. And not 
 just because it's an FPS, but more because many core aspects of the original game have been drastically 
 altered to make this game faster. Which is good for us FPS gamers.
  
  The first thing we note about any game are the graphics. This game uses a rather unique art style 
 that makes it stand out from the other more popular FPS games around (Rainbow Six, GRAW, CoD3, 
 Splinter Cell, etc) which tend to use a more realistic style. I like the vibrant colors and cool-looking 
 weapons and magic effects. Not only does the game look good, but I haven't noticed any graphical 
 issues like slowdown, or anything. Even when the firefights get really chaotic, which they frequently 
 do., the game runs smoothly
  
  The game itself takes place around the year 2030. Magic has returned to the modern world after 
 a several-thousand year absence, and it's return has brought back the classic fantasy races we 
 know and love (known collectively as metahumans) . You can be a human (my personal favorite) , an 
 elf, a dwarf, or a troll. Sadly, FASA didn't make an orc race (one of the things they changed from 
 the original game, but whatever) . Each race plays completely differently because of their racial 
 attributes. Humans, for instance, take no penalty for equipping tech (more on this later) , elves 
 can run fastest and regenerate health, a troll's skin hardens as it takes damage, reducing the 
 amount of damage dealt (they also have more health, making them great tanks) , and dwarves can suck 
 essence from other players (enemy and friendly, so stay away) .
  
  What's a futuristic game without cool tech? Well, Shadowrun's got some neat stuff for you. One 
 you'll see frequently, is the Glider. This is a small pack that's attached to your back. Activating 
 it causes wings to sprout out, allowing you to glide to safety from great falls. With a running 
 start and a good jump, you can clear some pretty good distance. Another, Enhanced Vision, lets 
 you see people through walls. At close ranges, you can see a person's outline (letting you tell 
 it's race) , or if you're farther away you'll just see a pip on you HUD. It also marks friendly 
 targets from enemies, so you know whether or not to ready your gun. Anyways, equipping tech applies 
 certain penalties to your magic use, as I'll detail later.
  
  Oh, and I mentioned magic earlier. It's kinda unusual to see people slinging spells in an FPS, 
 but it works great in Shadowrun. Every race has a certain set amount of Essence they use to cast 
 spells, with some spells reserving Essence for the duration of their effect (also, equipping tech 
 reserves even more, so you need to watch your tech use carefully to avoid draining all your magical 
 juice) . There are no direct attack spells, but that doesn't matter. The two big spells you'll always 
 see are Resurrect and Teleport, both of which are fairly obvious. Teleport lets you, well, teleport. 
 8 meters in the direction you're currently travelling, regardless of which way you're facing. Resurrect 
 brings every teammate's corpse in your immediate area back to life (Shadowrun has no respawning, 
 so when you die, you're done; unless you get rez'd) . Only problem is that when you Resurrect someone, 
 4 pips of Essence are reserved to keep them alive, and if you die they bleed to death (for reference, 
 humans only have 7 pips of Essence) . Also, you can only be rez'd once, so try to stay alive.
  
  You also frequently see the spell Tree of Life. Actually, you'll see it everywhere, tho' I 
 never don't give it a second thought (I can always manage to find one) . It basically summons a 
 tree that heals everyone in the immediate area, regardless of team. They make great instant cover 
 too.
  
  The guns themselves are fairly generic. But that's fine since this game focuses more on the use 
 of magic and tech, and why have more redundant guns, right? You start off with a pistol, and two 
 grenades. You can buy guns (and magic and tech) between rounds before the match starts (every game 
 is 6 rounds long) . There's an SMG, a rifle, a sniper rifle, a chaingun, and a rocket launcher. 
 There's also a katana, which is really fun when you manage to sneak up behind someone. If you do, 
 you can score a mortal wound which causes the enemy to bleed to death over time. Elves are particularly 
 good with the katana because of their speed, but trolls are just as feared because of their natural 
 strength. The katana is very powerful when used with the Wired Reflexes tech. Wired Reflexes essentially 
 makes you faster, but with the katana you can block bullets (in fact, one of the game's achievements 
 revolves around this) . The katana can even block katana attacks, and the attack animations look 
 pretty cool, so sometimes me and my friends have epic katana duels.
  
  OK, so the maps. Well, level design generally takes the many different spells and tech (like teleport 
 and glider) into account, so you can go just about anywhere, in any way you like. It actually makes 
 the game's primary play mode, Raid (essentially one flag CTF) very different. When you're guarding 
 the flag (called an artifact here) , you have to take into account that the attackers can come through 
 the floor and ceiling, as well as the walls. Add to that the fact that the flag is usually in a 
 wide-open room, and you have to be really quick on your feet to repel the attacking team. And when 
 you're the attacker, you know getting to the flag is gonna be easy... But getting away is a pain 
 (when holding the flag, you can't use magic or tech, you can only hit people with the flag) .
  
  An interesting choice FASA made was to make this game multiplayer only, which is rare for a 
 console game (then again, this game is available on the PC too) . I think it was a brilliant move, 
 since they didn't have to spend much time on some boring generic story, or making some uninspired 
 campaign mode. This is a shooter, I want shooting. I don't want to think about why I'm shoving 
 the barrel of my shotgun in some guy's stomach, I just want to pull the trigger. The only odd thing 
 is that there's no splitscreen play, but that doesn't bother me much. I hate playing splitscreen 
 games on my dinky TV.
  
  That's not to say this game doesn't have a story at all. When you play Shadowrun, you choose between 
 two sides in an increasingly violent power struggle. You can play for the RNA Corp, a megacorporation 
 that's trying to research a recently uncovered ziggurat that is believed to have incredible magical 
 powers. Or you can play as the Lineage, basically a terrorist group that's bent on keeping RNA, 
 or any corporate entity, as far away from the ziggurat as possible. I'm sure there's more to it, 
 but meh. Read the manual or check the official site for more info. Anyways, both sides play the 
 same, except in Raid, where the RNA is always on defense.
  
  Oh, as a side note, you can play in bot matches if you don't have any friends (just kidding) . The 
 bots are actually pretty smart; they use all the tech and magic in a way that isn't completely 
 noob-like, and they general seem to know what they're doing. They seem to have god-like situational 
 awareness sometimes (I CAME THROUGH THE FLOOR HOW CAN YOU ALREADY SEE ME?!) , but other than that 
 and the occasional amazing sniper headshot, they are pretty cool. And they always seem to have 
 Resurrect handy, so that's a plus for you (not so cool when the enemies keep resurrecting their 
 teammates...) .
  
  All in all, Shadowrun is an amazing game. The combination of gunplay, futuristic equipment, and 
 magic makes for a surprisingly great FPS experience. Shadowrun is definately the most original 
 FPS that's come out in a long time, and it's definately worth a try. Some people might be turned 
 off by its complexity, as finding a combination of guns, tech, and magic and be dificult, but if 
 you stick with it, you might find that Shadowrun is the most fun you've had with an FPS in a while. 
 And hey, when that Halo 3 beta ends and you're all suffering from withdrawal, the Shadowrun demo 
 will be out and ready for you ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-ZOOLANDER-V
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun definately does not dissapoint. The best way to describe it is a counter strike revolutionized 
 to work better with many many more gameplay factors. The thing that really made it that much more 
 fun was how every ability and gun has an even amount of pros and cons for example, there is a magic 
 power called dust, when dust is activated you are invincible to guns and gernades and all of the 
 magic powers but one gust. Gust blows a big well gust of air when casted, so when your feeling 
 all cool cus you just turned into dust and making your get away you get denied by a blast of air 
 its good fun even if you are dead. Another thing that i liked was how the guns worked out every 
 need is covered in your arsenal there is no need to have 50,000 guns for every certain type of 
 person/situation/location of the map its nice to have 2 guns that can do the job you need them 
 to. every character has their strenghts and weaknesses but i was very happy whith the way the troll 
 is, if i had to describe a troll in one word it would be: Behemoth. Every time i see one i get 
 scarred which is exactly the way it should be, they can be killed pretty easily if confonted correctly 
 but a full on assault is just plain suicide. The maps are good they cover a wide range of up close 
 in your face and lets go buy a sniper and get some head shots. The maps also have cool designs 
 like a pillar of energy surrounded by crushed rubble with layers of fog that wont let you see the 
 level above or below you till you go there. The only thing that kinda bugged me was that it doesnt 
 show your rank so you dont feel like your doing anything in the games but playing, there are games 
 and they are set-up by what your TrueSkill' is which is your rank the only way to tell you are 
 making progress is by the skill of the players your against. Even though the hidden rank thing 
 bugs me its definately not enough to put me away from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newfg311
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2007 9:56 pm PT
Review:  Do you love playing massive deathmatches and capture the flag matches over Xbox Live? Do you enjoy 
 mixing magic with usual FPS weaponry? Do you enjoy downing and opponent and then riddling his body 
 with bullets to be sure he isn't resurected by a teammate? If you answered yes to any of these 
 questions, then this game is for you.
  
  This game is not just fun, but also very well made. You have a lot of different customization options 
 at your disposal before you go into the actual matchmaking. The graphics for the game are very 
 good (not as good as other games that are out there, but still very good) , and the gameplay is 
 very smooth. The elements of an RPG are there for all to see, as you can buy weapons, tech and 
 magic before the start of each match with the cash you earn by doing things while playing (getting 
 kills, winning the match, capturing the artifact, etc.) . Its a very nice breath of fresh air into 
 the usually played one, played 'em all FPS genre. I have experienced some long load times while 
 waiting for the servers to find a match for me to play, but that is def. not enough to bring this 
 game down. Even if you are on the losing end of a match, you will still have a blast playing this 
 game because of the different magic and weapons at your disposal, and it is rare that you will 
 do the same thing over and over again during a match. The maps are big enough that you can take 
 numerous routes to accomplish your goal, but at the same time they aren't so big that you can get 
 lost and be out of the action for minutes at a time. This game is also a no brainer for DLC over 
 the Xbox Live Marketplace so the value will increase that much more once the map packs and new 
 gametypes (hopefully) start pouring out.
  
  Overall, Shadowrun is a fantastic game that will keep you occupied for hours at a time and may 
 very well ruin whatever social life us Gamespot users may have left. I would highly recommend this 
 game to the casual gamer and say it is a must own for fans of multiplayer games and FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nekoboycai
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 7:56 pm PT
Review:  See my review on GameFAQs, Game is given a 10/10, no question.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, the sounds are great, and the gameplay is magnificent. I really hope 
 this game gets at least CONSIDERED for a game of the year... It's definitely my favorite, and it 
 definitely delivers. The gameplay is magnificent, the melding of a traditional shooter, with a 
 sci-fi, AND fantasy twist, really makes the game the first of it's kind. Teleporting to slaughter 
 your enemies with a katana, gliding down while barraging enemies with your minigun... It's just 
 a great game. The only real downside that I had with the game, not many others will have. See, 
 I played the original shadowrun, Which is a pen and paper RPG. I also enjoyed the Sega Genesis, 
 and SNES versions alot. This game is nothing like them, and that's a real shame, though it's still 
 one of my favorites regardless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatherTimex
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is suprisingly fun to play. It most definitely has drawn heavilly from Counterstrike, 
 and the game feels similar to the classic PC shooter on many levels.
  
  However, what's amazing is not what they've pulled from counterstrike, but rather what they've 
 introduced while preserving a well balanced and fast paced game.
  
  The various races are all significantly different from each other, while at the same time all being 
 equally playable and useful to a team. None of the races feels over or underpowered. Likewise, 
 none of the weapons stand out as the gun you need to have. You can make due quite well with the 
 pistol and nothing else.. especially if you couple it with various tech.
  
  You tend to fall into a groove, where you'll find a good combination and stick with it for a while. 
 But eventually you'll run into enemies who are solid counters to what you're bringing, forcing 
 you to change things up.
  
  The game demonstrates a really huge amount of potential as a shooter for organized teams. The new 
 gameplay features really facilitate team play to a larger extent than is seen in most shooters. 
 Having a team who is able to coordinate the various abilities availible to each of their players 
 can let you really crush a disorganized team.
  
  Many of the tech and magic abilities dramatically open up the maps (which are quite large to begin 
 with) by allowing you to transverse them in unorthodox ways.. like jumping through a wall, or up 
 through the ceiling. Tech like enhanced vision can give you an edge on opponents by allowing you 
 to locate them through walls, and call out their location to other teammates, marking the location 
 on their huds. Teleport behind them, drop a grenade, and teleport away.. blowing them up without 
 them having any idea what happened. This stuff makes this game significantly different than other 
 shooters from the past. And they somehow managed to execute it very well, in a way that's very 
 well balanced.
  
  The one downside at this point, is the horrific process of connecting to a game. Often you'll wait 
 5 minutes or more while it's searching for a game... sometimes you'll encounter absolutely insane 
 lag, making the game utterly unplayable. However, when you find a good connection to a server, 
 the game plays very smoothly, with no significant lag. The nice thing is that once you find a server 
 like this, you can play in it for a long time, sparing yourself the pain of trying to connect to 
 another server.
  
  Hopefully, the networking issues will work themselves out. That issue aside, the game plays very 
 well, and is fun. It can vary from chaotic fragfest, to highly strategic team based combat, depending 
 on who you're playing with. If you enjoy online shooters, this one is solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everythingj
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw footage of this game I was pretty skeptical.. I thought, so if everyone can fly, 
 teleport and run around all over the place, how is that going to translate into cohesive gameplay? 
 How are you actually going to be able to tell whats going on and shoot back?
  
  Well after playing the game for about 20 hours on the first 2 days, I figured out that just because 
 everyone has access to these abilities, that doesn't mean that they can use them well enough to 
 be amazing. This game is definately about skill, anticipation, using your brain, and then laying 
 down some accurate fire on an enemy when he has exposed himself right in your sights. If you can 
 do those things then the powers and abilities only aid you in becoming a better killer, and limit 
 those who try to use them incorrectly.
  
  --An overview of the abilities that are going to become the harleded halmark of this game. --
 
  
  First off, powers or abilities in this game are split up into 2 categories, magic or tech. The 
 difference is, magic spells may cost different amounts of your 'essence' pool, (like a health bar 
 but just for magic abilities) and tech abilities once you equip them are always working, but may 
 limit your over all magic supply.
  
  So for example, say you are an elf and have an essence pool of 8. When you equip the tech 'glider,' 
 2 of your essence bars are blacked out, and you can only freely use 6 bars (which will regenerate 
 everytime you use them) So with your 6 bars you can cast spells until you run out, then wait for 
 regen and cast more spells. All the while your glider will be active whenever you need to use it. 
 If you unequipt the glider then you get 8 bars of essence back to work with.
  
  Here's what you can do in this game ability wise:
  
  Techs:
  Glider- If you use this standing 
 still, you automatically start soaring straight up about 15 feet, and then slowly hover back down. 
 If you get a running start and jump from a high point, you can soar over most of some of the smaller 
 maps in one use. This is a really fun ability that comes in real handy on some of the more vertical 
 maps.
  
  Smartlink- This adds a lazer scope to your characters headset, which improves your accuracy with 
 ranged weapons, and prevents you from shooting any of your own teammates accidently. The trade 
 off is, enemies can see your lazer coming down a hallway, but any player who is interested in playing 
 strictly to sniper/machine gunning, may wan tthis equiped anyway because the accuracy boost helps 
 so much.
  
  annti magic- This is basically a pulsing grenade, that continuously sucks magic from players or 
 objects who come near it. Some teams may errect a magic barrier around a flag, and if you throw 
 this into the middle of it, it will clear a whole in for people to run through. Wired reflexes- 
 Makes your character run faster, and when used gives you a brief additional speed boost, at the 
 cost of some health.
  
  And the last tech you can equip is a vision pulse, that lets you see all enemies nearbye through 
 walls for a few seconds. (forgot what its called)
  
  Magics:
  Teleport- Teleports you exactly 8 meters in which ever direction you are currently moving. If you 
 jump, you go 8 meters up, crouch, you go 8 meters down. You can go through walls into other rooms, 
 through players, into the air etc etc.
  
  smoke- Turns your character into smoke particles, (basically a ghost) you can't shoot, or attack 
 while it's active, but you also dont take damage from bullets, falling, or explosions. Only the 
 spell 'gust' can hurt you when you're in this form.
  
  Gust- Basically like a force push, whatevers in front of you gets pushed backwards, or off a cliff 
 if you use it in the right spot. Resurrect- Brings dead players back to life, but at a cost of 
 4 essence bars that stay blacked out as long as the person you revived is alive. If you die, the 
 person you revived slowly bleeds to death.
  
  Tree of life- Creates a golden tree that heals everything around it, friend or foe, and can be 
 used as cover to hide behind machine gun fire.
  
  Strangle- Creates a spiky barrier that players can't get through. It also does minor health and 
 essence damage. Summon- Creates a minion that either guards a certain area (if cast at the ground) 
 or rushes an opponenet if used directly on them. Very useful for defending important intersections, 
 or a flag capture area.
  
  Weapons: The standard fps weapons are included in this game, along with a katana that is incredibly 
 fun to use. All the weapons and abilities are purchased at the start of every round (think counterstrike) 
 and if you die you lose your weapons, but retain any techs or magic spells you have bought and 
 equipped. Guns include; pistol, sub machine gun, shotgun, rifle, katana, mini-gun, sniper rifle, 
 and rocket launcher. When you buy and equip to katana, your view is shifted from first person to 
 third person, (so you get increased peripheral vision) and if you manage to slice an unaware person 
 in the back, they begin bleeding critically and will die in a matter of seconds. (unless they hug 
 a tree of life, the heal and damage will cancel eachother out, but they will be stuck in that spot) 
 The rest of the guns are pretty standard, with the rocket launcher costing the most, to obtain, 
 but its missles instantly kill and can heat seak if you lock on with the smartlink tech.
  
  There are also 4 races you can play, between two battling factions, (the rna, and the lineage) 
 and three game types. Races include
  Troll- Incredibly hardy, with the most health, but least magic, and slowest movement speed.
  
 Dwarf- A little less hardy, and a little bit faster than the troll, dwarves automatically drain 
 magive from objects and players near bye.
  Human- The middle of the pack character, well rounded with a bonus to money and tech equipping.
 
  Elves- Least health, with the fastest movement speed and most magic. Elves also automatically 
 regenerate when out of combat for a few moments.
  
  You can choose any of these 4 races for whichever side you play on, lineage or RNA, and every race 
 can use every gun and every ability. The game types include,
  attrition- or death match
  raid- the RNA will defend an objective while the lineage try to capture it and take it to an exit 
 waypoint.
  extraction- both RNA and the lineage will try to capture the same object and bring it to their 
 designated exit point. In all these game types players can be resurrected, but if everyone on one 
 side dies, victory goes to the other team. All games are played until one team has won 6 times. 
 There's about 10 different maps at the moment, and players teams can range from 4-4, 6-6, to 8-8.
 
  
  All in all i'm thoroghly happy with the game so far, as it takes skill, strategy, and team work 
 to pull off a lot of consective victories in this game. And it's just damn fun mastering and using 
 the abilities in this game.
  
  Some examples of ways you can combine abilities
  
  An elf with a katana, speed boost, and ghost spell, can smoke through to the back of an enemy line, 
 un smoke, and then begin slashing enemies backs, and smoke/flee when they begin taking to much 
 damage.
  
  A troll with a mini gun, tree of life, and smart link can hold down a corner of a room, out lasting 
 an onslought of enemies. The smartlink increases the mini gun accuracy, and the troll can use the 
 tree for cover and to replenish its already enormous health supply. A human with a glider can fly 
 over behind enemy lines, drop a demon to engage enemies, then glide to a covering position and 
 fire on the opposition while they fight the demon.
  
  Just about anyone with smoke and teleport equipped can stage a heroic gettaway from a number of 
 enemies. But if you run past a dwarf your magic will be drained leaving you totally exposed.
  
  Anyway that's all I have so far on this game, but I'm really pleased with everything i've seen. 
 It may take new players a while to get used to the feel of the game and the equipping, purchasing 
 aspect (unless you are very familiar with counterstrike) but once you've got the hang of the abilitiesthe 
 game is very, very, VERY, fun and addicting to play. Online also includes party matchmaking ala 
 halo2, so you can group up with friends and hop from game to game. If you like fun fast paced shooters, 
 deffinately pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffodead
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 31, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Since one year after the last E3, Shadowrun has a great multiplayer potential. and multiplayer 
 is the only purpose, dont try to buy it and play with bots, you must a gold account for the x box 
 live. You ll need to learn the basic with the tutorial, complete all course and you are ready to 
 mess with the other player. But shadowrun is far from flawless some animation (climbing scales 
 for exemple) are really poor, the sound is average, but it sn't annoying cause your are only focus 
 on the aim cross trying to optimise your spell and your cybernetic enhancement. it s really a great 
 surprise and a good game for the x box 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Shadow Run is a interesting and fun game to say the least. This game is mostly based on multi player. 
 Therefore, without an xbox live gold membership the game isn't worth the money. There is a single 
 player mode however, the single player is mostly designed to train and prepare you for the online 
 games. The weapons in this game are nothing new or interesting. The usual shotgun, rifle etc. However, 
 the thing special about this game is you can also use magic and futuristic tech. The magic abilities 
 with their advantages and disadvantages bring a great deal of strategy to the game. There are 4 
 different races you can play with too. The humans of course, the trolls, the elves, and the dwarves. 
 Each race has tech and magic that suit it better than other races as well as advantages and disadvantages 
 and recommended strategies. Since you can use magic in the world the developers of course made 
 a story to explain how magic came up in the world. The two factions Lineage and Corp (at least 
 thats what I call it) have different goals of what to do with the magical powers. Which brings 
 you to the game modes. Most of which are based on either defending of escaping with an artifact. 
 Overall, Shadow Run is a fun and interesting game combining different elements into one enjoyable 
 and an easy to learn hard to master package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrtweed2
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  So many abilities, so little time!
  
  To pull off a game that happens to be a shooter that feels as deep as Shadowrun WITHOUT a strong 
 story-mode is a feat in and of itself, I haven't been this excited about firin' up the 360 since 
 Phantom Dust became BC!
  
  I was part of the beta test for Shadowrun and I am very impressed with the final product!!! I know, 
 I know, there are those out there who simply aren't happy with the fact that the game doesn't entirely 
 resemble it's PRG roots (this game is BASED on the original RPG... BASED) , for what it is (a great 
 strategic shooter) it's awesome; a thinking man's shooter, Imagine that! Frankly, as much as I 
 love Halo, I am more of a Phantom Dust kinda guy, and Shadowrun will sit poudly beside that very 
 title, because for me this is good gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saxplayerben
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is so frickin awesome!! The variety is amazing and iI don't think it will get boring 
 for a very long time. The lack of a substantial single player is a little annoying, but the training 
 missions and bot matches serve their purpose and the online well makes up for it. I can't wait 
 to get a system link match going with my friends. After the first play I found myself saying that 
 is so sick or holy crap every 5 seconds when i discovered one of teh awesome new abilities or tech. 
 It poses a good challenge and even has cool achievements! ALso, I've heard that the developer of 
 this game is coming out with a patch to add many features like split screen play and possibly a 
 new race, so it's only going to get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReMaG249
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  WHAT NO SINGLE PLAYER CAMPAIGN OR CO-OP!?! other than those two things the multiplayer and game 
 features make up for those. (plus cross platform multiplyer! YEAH! Also i like how the single player 
 can play against bots/ai and it would've been even cooler if a second person could come in and 
 play against the bots with you. The different races are a sweet feature as well as the new essence 
 thing. I love the AM Generator! Katana is a sweet weapon, but they should've had duel wielding 
 knives as a weapon too, it feels like halo 2 a bit with your standard guns and one sword. And no 
 melee? O well i like this game alot and we have competitions at my house between my friends who 
 can get the most kills in however many rounds.
  
  Awesome Game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 26, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Building up to release day, many people on online forums complained that this game Shadowrun either 
 was going to suck since it had no single player, was just a bastardization of an old franchise, 
 or didn't have enough game modes. While I admit I had some skeptic thoughts about this game, hell 
 I thought it be high A material at best, everything I predicted about the game was blown out the 
 door the moment I popped the disc in.
  
  I'm going to keep this short and sweet: The gameplay in Shadowrun is absolutely perfect. The mix 
 between magic and gun warfare creates a fresh new experience in the FPS genre. With out the magic 
 and everything, this would be a very boring game. But everything Shadowrun lacks like single player 
 and game variants, it makes up in the great online experience it provides. The online community 
 is already one of the best compared to other games. Not once have I come across one of the typical 
 14 year old Halo players (who have migrated to Gears as well) that swear and use racial slurs to 
 overcompensate for their small stature and high pitched voice. Everyone online works well together, 
 covers each other, resurrects each other, and just generally communicates well. And for the Windows 
 experience, don't think that no one bought the PC version, because they definitely did. I have 
 come across plenty of users playing the Vista version of the game and there have been no huge advantage 
 for them using the mouse compared to the game pad on the 360. I know a lot of people wrote off 
 Shadowrun being that it didn't receive the best pre launch hype, but I'm sure as hell glad I didn't 
 buy into the negative hype coming from the internet, I would of missed out on one of the best Xbox 
 Live experiences on the 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disciple
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 31, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  When picking up my copy of Shadowrun I was a little hesitant because there were no professional 
 reviews. I wondered why it would take so long to review a game with no single player campaign. 
 Then I played the game. It is amazing what FASA has done with the multiplayer aspect of the game. 
 It seems there are endless combinations of how to fight in this shooter. This is what makes this 
 game great. It causes you to think and for many gamers who love shooters this will not be fun, 
 but I personally love it. Shooters that are run and gun lose the fun factor quickly but this game's 
 variety is what makes it stand out among the rest of the mindless shooters. This game is not without 
 it flaws such as the latter climbing animation but what game doesnt have flaws. Sometimes I feel 
 like when people pick up a game they expect it to change their lives but that will never happen 
 through a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: al3333222111
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is all i thought it would be from the start. There really is no need for a singleplayer 
 with such fantastic multiplayer. Its the most original game i've seen in a very long time. If i 
 had to name a game that it compared to i would consider it a mix between unreal championship and 
 just a little bit of counter strike. If you''re into fps or unreal championship you should buy 
 this game. This is a type of game that you will not want to leave after you start to play it and 
 there's never ever a bored moment. I do suggest you do the training or you'll get owned. It takes 
 about 1 hours and 30 minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mmielnik
Rating: 8
Date: May 31, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  For starters I have known about this game for a while now but I have never been totally sold on 
 it. But the lack of summer games has forced me into trying this one out. One word sums this game 
 up, Wow! This is one very fun game. The game starts you off with a little intro into the story. 
 After that you can proceed into Start Here which is the training. Training gives you about half 
 of the story of whats going on, but only bits of pieces. Unfortunately you only get half of the 
 story. You know how and where, but not who and when. Who is RNA? Who is Lineage? What year is it? 
 All you get is that RNA has basically taken control of the city of Santos, Brazil to gain control 
 of the artifacts after a magical terrorist attack by Lineage. Lineage is a rebel terrorist group 
 and RNA is the typical corporation . Thats about all you get in single player besides the very 
 important Training.
  
  The only single player aspect is in the Bot matches and Training modes. This is where the technical 
 difficulties come into view. During single player bot matches you can somehow lose connection to 
 the server how in the world does this happen? How do you lose connection to a single player game 
 with no Live or internet connection? Its impossible but somehow you can in Shadowrun. There is 
 no point in reviewing the singleplayer part because its multiplayer either way around.
  
  Multiplayer is quite a chore. Joining a game is similar to Halo's matchmaking but you cant choose 
 the game type. After deciding you want to play one of the 2 game types you have to wait about 10 
 minutes before you can join a game. The game has you waiting in a menu while searches for and loads 
 a map, if it drops you into a full match you wont know until after you leave the searching screen, 
 and it happens alot. After finally getting into a match you have to wait until the current round 
 is over. You start the game buy buying a magic power or a weapon. You wont have enough for both 
 when you start. Next you start. Both game types involve the artifact, which means you grab it and 
 run. This is of course if you dont lose connection.
  
  Shadowrun reminds me of Call Of Duty 2 when the 360 first came out. A great multiplayer but it 
 had a lot of technical difficulties. Hopefully an update is fast on the way. Because this is unacceptable. 
 It cant be hard to deliver a reasonable Live experience, especially after Shadowrun had plenty 
 of games before it. If this was a launch game I would understand but come on! You dont have a story 
 mode to work on so was it that hard to polish it up a bit more? But, when i went to BestBuy the 
 manager said the game's release date was pushed back to the 1st week of June. So I called EB Games 
 and they had 1 of 5 copies left. I was a little suprised at this number but bought it regardless. 
 This may be the reason for the problems and the fact GS abd others havent reviewed this game. Hopefully 
 this is the case.
  
  Multiplayer is the game, do not buy this game if you dont have Live, there is no point. Unless 
 you like to waste money. $64 dollars is a very steep price for this game. Get it if you dont feel 
 like missing out on one of the greatest Live experiences on the planet (pending an update) . This 
 is a gracious review because im awaiting the update. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: master_spoon
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  When first playing Shadowrun you will have the option of completing six training chapters, if you 
 skip this part you are doing to die alot. This game can be punishing figuring out the right combinations 
 of magic and tech for your playing style. but this is a great thing. You will not tire of trying 
 out all the different combinations that are possible, which is a good thing, as you are going to 
 tire from the small number of maps. (However I am seriously hoping that FASA will treat us with 
 numerous dlc, whether maps or new weapons and powers) I am not going to derid this game for its 
 lack of single player, as it is advertised as an online only game. Although $60 does seem a little 
 steep for an online only game, even one as deep as this one. (I would have prefered just a $10 
 drop in price) I should be noted that you will really get ripped off if you buy this game, and 
 do not have XBOX Live Gold. DO NOT BUY without.
  
  The actual online experience is great, except for some reason there seems to be no leaderboards. 
 Weird. At least none that I could find, excluding the match leaderboard. If I am wrong someone 
 needs to correct me, but I do not think so. This is a strange thing to leave off, and might actually 
 turn some hardcore players off, which whom this game should be played by.
  
  Some of you might be concerned about the balance of weapons, don't be. I could not find the game 
 changer, there is nothing like the shotgun in Gears of War that dominates game play, and this is 
 an excellent and refreshing change. EVERYTHING is balanced with a lot of care. There is no wrong 
 choices, and everything has their drawbacks.
  
  Lastly the graphics are decent, if not excellent. Everything was very sharp on my 720p Westinghouse, 
 and I did not notice any framerate issues either. I wish the game displayed more violent animations 
 (I must have been playing too much Gears)
  
  This game is a must buy, and one quality game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skins266
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 31, 2007 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is very much like Halo only with magic and other tweaks that make this game exciting 
 and fun to play. For instance everyone starts out with a pistol and some money to buy upgrades 
 in the multi-player. After each round you earn money based on how you play, so the better players 
 can afford the better weapons and more magic, however if you suck your teammates can give you money 
 in increments of $250. Money does not carry over between matches. In multi-player there are three 
 match types. The standard capture the flag, in this case it is a relic. A unique deathmatch called 
 attrition that is under appreciated. And then a mode where one team defends the relic and the other 
 team tries to get it back to the base.
  
  Another aspect is the offline multi-player. You can play with bots much like Timesplitters, it 
 is not as good though. You can do everything online that you can offline, except achievements (I 
 think) .
  
  Like Halo 2 the sword is a very formidable weapon and must be watched out for. However in Shadowrun 
 for the sword to be effective you must sneak up on an unsuspecting victim and slash them from behind. 
 When this is done they have about 3 seconds before they bleed out and die. There are many more 
 fun and efficient aspects that you should find out for yourself after you get this amazing game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jud0ka
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  When I initially put in this game I did not know what to expect. Sure we have all seen the game 
 footage from press events and such but, still it just didn't help. I was so taken with the creativity 
 of spells, tech and how they are used in a fps. Most of the game play is CTF type of games. Some 
 are attach, defend or who can ever get the flag (artifact) out first.
  
  When I first started the game I began with the 6 chapters of training. Each one can take around 
 6-8 minutes. This game does require a lot of strategy. You only receive one life so you can't run 
 and gun all the time. There are so many things that you can do to help your team. One example is 
 resurrect, which can enable you to bring back your team mates. The balance of the power locks away 
 a certain amount of essence to keep the person revived. If the reviver dies then the revived slowly 
 dies unless he finds a tree of live or is re-revived by another player. Thats just a small example 
 of what you can do in this game.
  
  The graphics are nice and fit the art style. They are just kind of bland looking though. I think 
 that a create a character that suits your liking within each class would haven been very nice addition 
 to the game. The game has nice motion blurring and such but thats about it.
  
  The sound is good and works nicely. You can tell what kind of weapon is firing at you.
  
  This 
 game is not for silver account or people who do not play on live. If you are looking for a good 
 reason to get onto live, and have not played any of the already released titles than this may be 
 a good reason to get on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viryn_Sane
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 31, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  I didn't follow the release of Shadowrun, nor did I participate in the Beta. I simply looked online 
 one day for a game to add to my ever growing collection. I read up on it, looked at the races, 
 read some beta testimonials, and found out that there wasn't much negative press. I did though, 
 have one beef... no single player?!?!?!
  
  How can a game be successful without single player campaigns? It's just unheard of. Were they too 
 lazy to make a single player? Possibly. Could they have included a single player with this type 
 of storyline? Most definitely. Do I care that it doesn't have a single player? Not at all!
  
  While there is single player bot matches, this game does not have any single player campaigns. 
 So, if you are not a die hard live fan, DO NOT buy this game. The makers completely overlooked 
 you. But, if you like Gears of War online or any online FPS for that matter, you will find this 
 game enjoyable.
  
  The best way I can describe this game is What if the soldiers from a Tom Clancy game studied under 
 Yoda for a few years... and met some Orcs and Trolls and Dwarves along the way. The use of magic 
 alongside weaponry is a nice touch! It really makes for an enjoyable experience. Is this game the 
 second coming? Probably not, but it is one hell of a fun game. The online play will keep you occupied 
 for hours as you try out all the different spell combinations and tech gadgets you can get your 
 hands on.
  
  This game is not going to be for the hardcore. I can see it now. People are going to either love 
 this game or hate it. While it is a little complicated, I found it pretty straightforward to jump 
 into. Please, oh please, do the training missions. Don't just jump right online or you will have 
 no idea what you are doing (and piss a lot of people off in the process) . Keep in mind, there are 
 no respawns. So, if you read this review and decide to buy the game, look me up on Live. My gamertag 
 is uppity crackah.
  
  See you on the battlefield! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilman539
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Any and most FPS fans out there are already feeling the rut settling in with the selection of shooter 
 games available out there right now. Shadowrun is a step in a completely different direction while 
 maintaining the core principles of what a shooter is. Combining Counter Strike with a twist of 
 magic this game offers something completely different than what were used to. At first those of 
 us still used to Gears of War might be underwhelmed by the graphics but by no means is this game 
 ugly... Give it a minute, finish the training and let it all sink in. I guarantee once you do you 
 will be impressed with impressive environments and magical effects in action. Shadowrun isn't without 
 fault, there are some issues with matchmaking and servers can get a bit laggy, but these issues 
 can be explained by hosts with bad connections and the fact that there aren't that many people 
 playing it yet because of it just being released. Overall this is a game definitely worth checking 
 out in the least and I highly recommend it to serious FPS fans out there... trust me you'll love 
 it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poppy425
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 31, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  I was sceptical of this one at first because I wanted an RPG out of this franchise but I was pleasantly 
 surprised with the end product. The game graphics are well done and the sounds are top notch. I 
 did have to run the Training missions and some bot matches before I could get the hang of the magic 
 (teleporting was particularly interesting) . I like the map layouts with alot of options and chokepoints 
 smartly placed to keep the action level on high. I do recommend this title for players looking 
 for something along the lines of Counterstrike but want something new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badkolo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 31, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  extremly solid game, it lacks a sp campaign mode but the online portion is outstandingm the traigning 
 gets you started and the actual gae is exciting, the magic and controls are tight, the graphics 
 are great and while not minblowing they fit just right, iprefer thi over halo3 onlin any day. It 
 just all works so well minus the few flaws.
  
  Try the game and then come back and bad mouth it, i thought it was going to suck an then 6 hours 
 later i realized im hooked, they dida great job overall, i will agree 60 bucks is to much for half 
 a game so thats where it fails. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamekingpin
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 31, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  The characters and all of the different attributes and abilities that can be mixed and matched 
 truly make this game one of a kind. There is so much to experiment with that you can spend hours 
 upon hours putting together a combat style that suites you. It is a very fun and fast paced game 
 that is highly addictive. You play the game once as a well rounded human, then you want to play 
 as the slower but ever so powerful troll, after that you may want to sneak around as the magical 
 dwarf, and if that does not work you can use swift moves and super agility while killing people 
 ninja style as an elf. Combine this with the fact that you can pick and choose any magic, weapon, 
 or tech on any character then the possibilities are almost endless.
  This brings a lot of strategy to this FPS so fight smart or die trying.
  
  The only flaws to 
 it is that there is no single player story mode for those times that you just want to go on a solo 
 adventure offline. The only single player mode is basically just practice for the multiplayer. 
 This may take away from marketability. Maybe in the future there will be some downloadable content 
 to add more options. Also it would be nice to be able to set up the abilities you want your characters 
 to have before going into the match because they really dont give you much time. I also feel that 
 since its all about multiplayer strategy that you should not have to buy them but just choose them 
 wisely
  
  There is definitely room for some improvement, but this game should still have the multiplayer 
 scene on lock for the summer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rgp_md
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 31, 2007 4:41 am PT
Review:  This is going to be a fairly brief review, things I wanted to know before I bought the game but 
 couldn't find due to the inexplicable lack of official reviews on every gaming sight I know of. 
 Plus:
  The controls are tight for a console FPS. Very similar to Halo if you like that (and I do) .
  
 Great design concept, I love the ability to customize the way you fight/play to your own personal 
 style. Definitely not your usual FPS.
  There are bots so you can play a game with relatively few buddies or even by yourself.
  
  Minus:
 
  There is no single player campaign mode. There is a tutorial mode with a rudimentary story line 
 but it's not what your going to be used to experiencing from games like GOW or Halo.
  There is no melee button. There is a sword, which you can purchase that fills your normal weapon 
 slot but if your fight with guns and you happen to be close, there's no way to clock them over 
 the head and end it quickly. That is of course unless you switch to the sword quickly. For me this 
 the biggest fault of the game so far.
  
  Neutral:
  The graphics are decent. It's not GOW but it's good enough to qualify as next gen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlanetSun
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  I've spent literally hundreds of hours playing Shadowrun (since the beta) and I'm still addicted! 
 WIth the amount of weapons/magic/tech and the fantastic level design, there are more gameplay combinations 
 than I've ever seen before (unlike the Halo3 beta wich I was bored with after the 3rd round) . I 
 started experimenting with different combinations of abilities and races (there's elf, troll, dwarf, 
 and human, each with different abilities) . Right now I love using the Elf with smoke, teleport 
 and katana! Also, depending on the map, I'll play Troll + minigun + tree (excellent for defense!) 
 For the most part, the levels also give it a good variation for different types of gameplay which 
 make it fun to coordinate your team. I'd love to tell you more but I'm going to go play more.
 
  
  THIS GAME IS DEFINITELY WORTH BUYING!!!
  
  
  
  Berger sucks. :-D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H8tred1229
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  So i picked it up, brought it home, and popped it in the 360. Did the training in about 10 minutes, 
 and got the hang of it rather quickly. The race diversity in this title is priceless, each one 
 of them has it's perks. Such as the Trolls and their ability to take a lot of bullets to the Chest, 
 Head, and Groin areas without dying. First Deathmatch game i played as apart of the Lineage team. 
 i picked the Dwarf thinking that it's much harder to aim at something that's close to the ground. 
 Well, i was wrong and i got Annihilated.... however, i've never had soo much fun losing before. 
 This game will keep you occupied for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkscorcher
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty fun, with all the cool powers you get to use and everything but one thing i 
 HATE. is that unless you shoot a body up while its laying on the ground. it is not considered dead 
 so their teammates can revive them, BUT thats not what im mad at. even if all of the team members 
 have been killed off, and there is no one to revive any of them, a new round will not start untill 
 you find all the bodys and shoot them up and make them disappear.. its just annoying sitting there 
 for 2 minutes while you wait for the other team to find the last corpses to completely finish off, 
 when there is no chance of any of them getting revived. but hopefully this problem will be corrected 
 with a future update.
  
  the graphics are decent they are nothing like gears of war, but again, gears of war doesn't have 
 maps anywhere near the size of shadowruns.
  It seems graphics have been sacrificed for larger, glitch free maps.
  
  the sound. average 
 i guess.
  
  tilt- very cool that there are different classes with their own special abilitys, and the need 
 to cordinate powers with teammates to win games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoffleWaffles
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun Is a Great fps. Its Based on the pen and paper rpg of the same name. But dont be fooled, 
 this is not an rpg. Its An Online FPS Where You Use Technology, Magic And Weapons. You have your 
 standard rifle, sniper rifle , shotgun and then you have your technology, Such as gliders so you 
 can glide when you jump. The Magic system is pretty good, You can summon minions, Spawn magic trees 
 that heal all around, Get ressurection powers, THe Gameplay is balanced well. The graphics are 
 good, the gameplay is great, the controls are good, what more could you ask for? This is the definitive 
 Online Fps Experience, so if you're looking for single player campaign look elswhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jackasssiegel
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Being a beta tester I already knew what to expect but this game has even surpassed my expectations. 
 The game play takes a little while to learn but all you have to do is go through the training missions 
 a few times and you'll be ready to get into the game. This game kept my attention for roughly 14 
 hours and I only turned it off becauseI have to get up early in the AM. But rest assured I will 
 be playing tomorrow as soon as I can. The great thing about this game is it never gets boring. 
 Where you can beat a single player only so many times this game is always evolving because the 
 players are always changing and the strategy is always changing. You have 4 races to choose from 
 each with specific qualities You have 8 weapons ang gernades 5 tech abilities (glider, enhanced 
  reflexes)
  7 magic abilities (resurrect, tree of life, strangle, gust, smoke, teleport, and summon)
  For a multiplayer 
 this game is deep with endless variety of options. And the best part is you need to play like a 
 team to win. Not many games stress teamwork like this one. The only problem i had today was logging 
 on to the server was a bit slow but I'm sure its an XBL issue or the servers weren't ready for 
 the amount of traffic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taylorb522
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I had low expectations, but I came away with a smile on my face, been playing it all day and most 
 likely for months to come. It is so deep but so simple. It has a wonderful community, the people 
 are actually nice, no twelve year olds :) .
  
  Next to no lag, the levels are extremely well designed, built for 16 players very well. I love 
 the magic and tech system, it's complex but in a fun way, you will get familiar with it pretty 
 quickly (depending on your skill with FSP's) . But it might take you a match or two if you are new 
 to games.
  
  Overall this game is a amazing multiplayer game, very deep, built for hardcore gamers. Well thank 
 you for your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evanwolves999
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Even though this game doesn't have any reviews out yet, don't worry about it I got you covered. 
 I was accepted into the beta for this game a while back, played one game and I was like what the 
 heck is going on This is nuts! I instantly turned off the 360 and I was officially done with the 
 beta... wow did I make a HUGE mistake. The truth is that this game will probably get luke warm reviews 
 and here is why. First of all, no story mode here. It is strictly a multiplayer game. Secondly, 
 this game will give you a headache. Think of this game as half chess game half FPS. There are so 
 many combinations of magic and tech that it is sometimes overwhelming to come up with the best 
 combo for the situation. With that said, this game is not for the kind of person that likes to 
 run and gun. It is a very complex game, which may be hard for some people to grasp, but this game 
 has been designed so incredibly well, that every ability in the game can be countered in one way 
 or another. Instead of seeing who has the fastest trigger finger this game tests who is the smartest 
 player. You will find that more and more people will start working together in order to win which 
 doesn't happen all that often in online multiplayer these days, but people understand that teamwork 
 is essential to the game. This really is a thinking mans game and that is why it is so difficult 
 to master, but immensely refreshing and incredibly addicting. Just a little note on the graphics.... they 
 are really good. Nothing necessarily revolutionary, but they are crisp, clean, and fluid.
  
  Overall, the biggest weakness this game really has is the price. It's pretty safe to say that 
 the price will cause a huge drop in the reviews for this game, but don't let that persuade you. 
 This game has engaged me more than any other multiplayer game I have ever played. If you enjoy 
 a smart, fast paced, addicting game then this may just very well be the best FPS the 360, or any 
 system for that matter, has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcorwin
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  All I can say is wow! 
  
  This game has been on my radar since about a year ago or so, and ever since then, the revolutionary 
 concepts described by the developers that would be implimented into their multiplayer game have 
 tickled my fancy. As this game came nearer and nearer to launch and I saw some more videos for 
 it; I started to get skeptical. Man was I wrong though, this game, while having a ton of potential 
 to fail if it had balance issues, bad maps, and bad implimentation of powers, came through in a 
 blaze of glory. GAMEPLAY: This game simply has some of the best gameplay for a multiplayer game 
 since Counterstrike. building off of Counterstrike's buy weapons and equipment before each round 
 formula, you can choose to purchase some generic firearms, technological equipment (such as a glider) , 
 and magical powers. When combining the gunplay, use of anti-magic tech and gliding, and the many 
 astounding magical abilities at your disposal you can outsmart, outflank, and outfight your oponents. 
 Magic skills include smoke (turning you into an invurnerable invisible cloud that can only be harmed 
 by gust ) , gust (a blast of air that can knock a player backwards, launch grenades across the map, 
 or knock someone out of smoke ) , teleport (teleporting you 8-10 feet in the general direction your 
 traveling in, regardless of walls or barriers) , Tree of Life (a magic tree that grows to provide 
 cover and also heals anyone in it's radius) , Revive (reviving a dead player and putting them back 
 into the fight) , Summon (summons a other-worldly creature to fight and patrol sections of the map 
 for you) , and Strangle (creating a barrier of crystals that traps anyone caught in them, and blocks 
 off paths) . The Tech abilities are a glider (glides you across large distacnes and down from great 
 heights) , Enhanced vision (allows you to see through walls) , Smartlink (provides extra level of 
 zoom and accuracy to weapons) , Anti-magic generator (reduces magical effecrs and essence in the 
 general vicinity) , and wired reflexes (makes you run faster, reload faster, jump higher, and with 
 a katana - block bullets, with a minor cost of health) . These skills combined with grenades and 
 guns can make epic combat situations that have infinite ways they can play out. A great emphasis 
 on teamplay also makes each skill important in its own situation, making a corrdinated team the 
 dominate team. GRAPHICS:
  
  While not the absolute prettiest graphics as in such games as Gears Of War, Shadowrun does a good 
 job with the engine they have. They use ragdoll (havoc) physics on all bodies ect. and the engine 
 renders good quality models and very detailed enviroments. The graphics really fit the game perfectly 
 and are quite visually stunning. Lots of shadows and lighting provide the proper ambiance in many 
 of the levels. Graphics were deffinitly better than I thought they would be, and actually left 
 me impressed. Lots of attentino to detail and quality models and shaders make these graphics great, 
 while not as great as Gears.
  
  SOUND:
  
  The sound in the game is perfect. The gun noises fit each gun perfectly (especially the whine of 
 the chaingun) and all explosions sound convincing and menacing at the same time. The chatter of 
 the on-character radios echo throughout the level and really provide ambiance, even when you dont 
 have real people to play with. The bots use the same radio commands to illustrate where people 
 and items are in the levels. The magic and tech noises also work perfectly conveying the proper 
 sound for each action. Overall sound was quite excellent, while not being so good that you notice 
 nothing else.
  
  VALUE:
  
  This is where it gets a bit tricky. This game lacks any single player story mode whatsoever. While 
 there are tutorials and bot matches to be played off-line, you will find the bulk of the game online 
 on LIVE. Whiel one could feasably play with only bots and still have fun, it is just plain better 
 to play with real people as a team. But, the sheer amount of options online and the combinations 
 of gameplay make this a much-valued title. Despite the lack of any campaign, the bot matches will 
 do it some justice as the difficulty for the bots can be turned up to a almost human-like level. 
 It is for this reason that I can still give Shadowrun a great score in the value department despite 
 its lack of any campaign.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: Overall i feel that such a game is a perfect entry into the gaming of xbox LIVE. 
 It has astounding, if not revolutionary online elements, and overall makes a lasting experience 
 that will tide most of us over till Halo 3 comes out. If you have any interest in online shooters... 
 but this game as soon as possible and play the hell outta it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eapobh
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I was pleasantly surprised when i popped this FPS in my 360. (NO single player game whatsoever) 
 I first hit the tutorial to get the fist of it. A word of advise GO THROUGH THE TUTORIAL can not 
 be stressed enough. It explains everything you need to get started. All classes all weapons all 
 magic and tech it is all here. But on the same note mastering and applying all these to the multi-player 
 is up to the player. On that note, multiplayer is a blast. It is very team based that promotes 
 and awards teamwork. From what i can tell public matches are very simlar to the Halo party match 
 making. So it is very easy to team up with freinds and stay with them. When i started in the multiplayer 
 i was suprised to hear there were no favorit class-weapon-tech -magic that were all powerful. Everyone 
 like their own combo and combinations. When all these diffrent class and combination of magic and 
 tech make for a balance and great matches. The matches are round based and usually it is first 
 to 6 or and offence defence match which is self explanitory. When your team wins you recive money 
 that can be use to purchase power ups or weapons after the match is over. The better you help your 
 team the more money your receive before the next round, wether it be kills, healing or cap'n the 
 flag. This is a very fun game that rewards teamwork and fun as hell! Check it out - a good way 
 to pass the time until Halo hits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodaman23
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I came into Shadowrun with low expectations but I was enjoyably mistaken. Gameplay:
  It's fast and it's frantic. The choices of race, weapons, magic, and tech allow you to fit any 
 play style and some styles you'd never think of. Ever play a dwarf swat member with a katana and 
 a huge demon in tow. Well now you can. The action can be coordinated with your team and that makes 
 it all the more fun when you can rely on your teamates for cover or healing. The game really only 
 consists of multiplayer, but thats all you need. They try to put a little story in the training 
 sessions but its ignorable. The game is perfectly balenced among races, while an orc needs several 
 people on him to get him down, he's slow and easy to swarm. That balence moves to all races and 
 there are few rooms useing the same race. (Unless its a dwarfs with swords match.) The in game 
 menu, while you can switch magic and tech it is not really on the fly. You'll have to find a quite 
 spot for a second to switch out your gear. Its not a huge gripe but it does come up sometimes.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Along with the whole game, surprisingly good. The character models are great and the animations 
 are pretty fluid, minus the climbing animation which doesn't feature moving legs (Oh well) . The 
 Tree of Life magic is very pretty and fanitful like and the animation for teleporting through walls 
 is very nice. Sound:
  The bullets fly and magic... poofs? The sound is nothing spectacular but it does the trick. The 
 best sound in the game is your team mates lauphing over how stupid a dwarf with a chaingun looks.
 
  
  Value:
  For $60 and the price of an X-Box live Gold Membership you get a long while of great multiplayer 
 you will keep going back to. Perhaps some single missions would be good but its still worth it.
 
  
  Overall its a great game and console shooter fans should flock to it. Its fast and solid and the 
 controls are pretty tight. I'll be playing the game for a while and enjoying it all the way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustHawkeye
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  There is only one word for this game and thats different. this game forces you to use magical and 
 technological abilities in order to survive and teamwork is key. the graphics of the game are pretty 
 darn good compared to the other games on the xbox 360. they have great lighting effects and the 
 impact spells and bullets have on the surroundings is good. the sound in the game is subpar with 
 the normal weapons sounds which are about what you would expect from any other fps, but theres 
 not really any catchy theme song like for instance halo, but that doesn't hurt the experiance at 
 all. the gameplay is what makes this game stand out from every other fps and dang does it stand 
 out with average weapons, great spells with everything you sould want besides telekenesis. the 
 teleporting and the gliding are some of the moments that will stay with me for a very long time 
 about this game. i have heard many reports about wah there is no story! get over it! counterstrike 
 never had a story and it was fantastic. i am going to have to say that if you have live pick this 
 game up becuase you won't find another experiance like it on any other system besides of course 
 the pc which also has the game. one thing i need to add is that this game has an extremely high 
 learning curve and i hope you know how to use your abilities before you go on live. i agree with 
 gamespot on why they rated it a 6.9 but i had the same mindset with crackdown which got a 7.8 they 
 were rated bad because of content, but even though i agree with both on their reviews i rate games 
 on how much fun i had with it and am still having with both games.
  
  GET IT AND PLAY ME!
  
  p. s. i wasn't sure what to put for the time spent playing so i guessed 
 into about a week from now. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red1_1
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 30, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Well when i went to pick up my copy of SR (shadowrun) im thinking this will be ok i played it for 
 4 hours staraight and thought wow this game is pretty great.
  
  Good:
  Mix of races
  Blend of magic/ tech/ guns
  Very balanced
  Maps are very fun Detailed character models / levels
 
  Good game types
  Faced paced yet very team orriented game play
  Very fun weapons and powers
  Story during training really sets you onto what is happening in 
 this game
  Bots... yes it is fun to fight the bots if you dont want to paly online (very fun)
  
  Bad:
 
  Some minimal lag Some bad lag (doesnt occur very often)
  Vista gamers who cant talk
  Getting ur butt kicked by a big angry troll
  Teleporting can be difficult sometimes
  Dwarf's 
 who steal your magic/ or destroy ur summons
  
  so all in all i would say this is one of the best games of the year i have played. And dare i say 
 it might even be better than GOW and R6V imo.
  So if you dont trust me give it a rent, or if you do WHY ARE YOU SITTING HEAR RETTING THIS GET 
 THIS GAME!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_soulburner
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  What can be better than having a katana , teleporting behind a guy , one blow to make him bleed 
 and leave on a glider ?
  
  Finally we get a kinda innovative fps , lots of different spells , the classic weapons + katana 
 , 16 players , thats kinda good .
  
  You got to choose beetween 4 races , very different , based on stats being , Health /speed / essence 
 (mana) + some special attributes , like the dwarfs can drain mana from stuff nemies and allies 
 or the troll goes slow but can carry a minigun without speed penalty and gets bonus armor if he 
 gets it (spikes grow on him !!!) .
  
  The only things that may be a little disapointing are the low number of levels ( less than 10) 
 and the fact that you are forced to play with an artefact (flag in the game) , the 3 modes being 
 :
  
  One side CTF (capture the flag) the other defends (raid)
  Both side CTF in the middle (extraction)
  Kill everyone , and get all enemies spotted if you 
 CTF (attrition)
  Attrition mode is never played because it's not by default on preferences for the matches so noone 
 bothers cheking it ...
  Oh and for the stats geeks : NO leaderboards of any kind , play for playing ;) and it's worth playing 
 ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robarts
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  When reviewing Shadowrun, I couldn't decide what to say about it, but after a while the only thing 
 left to say is play it. Shadowrun is a cross platform FPS with some RPG and counter strike elements 
 poured in. There is no story other than what the six tutorials tell you and it may lack content, 
 but it makes up for it in fun.
  
  Upon starting up the game you'll have a choice, play the tuorials or just jump right in. I urge 
 you to do the tutorials considering how confusing this game can be at first. Anyway once you get 
 into the game for a while it becomes second nature. You can either play bots or just hop online 
 and play up to 16 others in three gametypes. Even though, these modes are all basically the same 
 thing. The only difference is that in one (Extraction) both teams run for the artifact and try to 
 bring it to their base, the other (Raid) has one team defending against the other trying to capture 
 the artifact, and the last (Attrition) is basically deathmatch with the artifact showing the possessor 
 where the other players are.
  
  These modes are all great fun, but could wear thin for some and with only twelve maps (Three which 
 are smaller variations of the others) it might grow stale even quicker. Still though for those who 
 like quality over quantity this game will stay fun for a very long time. At least until DLC comes 
 out.
  
  The levels in Shadowrun all look great and play very well. Take a look at Maelstrom! The game also 
 has four different races to play as, all of which are extremely well balanced. They also look nicely 
 detailed along with everything else in the game. Other than the fact that they float up ladders, 
 but this was explained by FASA as being for gameplay purposes. Shame though, you can't customize. Either 
 way though when it comes down to it, most won't care that they look like the other elves on their 
 team or that the characters aren't animating when climbing. Nor will they have the time to think 
 about it. This game does have computer players versing console players you know and while they are 
 balanced to the point of being unnoticable, it gives players a very diverse playing field.
  
  All in all Shadowrun's lack of content, missing animations, and love or hate appeal don't do 
 a whole lot to ruin it's great fun factor and diverse gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TranRoxas
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 30, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Shadowrun is a great multiplayer first person shooter that takes a classic gameplay style and adds 
 a new twist which plays very well and is highly addictive. Shadowrun can most soundly be described 
 as Halo meets Oblivion in that it is a fast paced first person shooter with fluid controls, but 
 the characters you play with are customizable in race, weapons, and abilities.
  
  Multiplayer matches start off with choosing from any of the four races (human, elves, dwarves, 
 and trolls ) , each with their own strengths, weaknesses, and special abilities, although they can 
 all use every weapon, magic and tech ability) and getting sided to one of the two teams ( RNA or 
 Lineage) . Everyone starts off with grenades for 1 of your 3 ability slots and a pistol and a small 
 amount of money. At the beginning of every round you are awarded with new money for weapons, ammo, 
 tech and magic abilities, so usually within 3 or 4 rounds you can have a fully customized character 
 with tons of combinations to create. The game is played in rounds and there is no respawning between 
 rounds, but you can ressurect dead teammates if you assign ressurect to one of your 3 ability slots, 
 but they cannot stay alive unless you do; if you die they begin to bleed out. The can of combos 
 you can create with weapon and abilities is very satisfying. You could have a character with a 
 sniper rifle and the smartlink tech to improve aiming along with the tree of life magic ability 
 so you can camp out far away and pick enemies off from the distant cover of your tree of life, 
 which gives health regeneration to anyone standing underneath it. You might also not be worried 
 about people sneaking up on you because you can just gust them away with your 3rd ability and snipe 
 them. Or maybe you want to sit behind a wall with the wired reflexes tech and a katana watching 
 people walk in front of you with with your enhanced vision to see enemies behind walls so you can 
 teleport behind them as they walk past and get a stealth hit which will cause them to bleed out 
 of a single hit.
  
  There are 3 types of multiplayer modes. The primary 2 are both forms of capture the flag. Extraction 
 places the artifact between the two teams and the idea is two pick it up and take it two your extraction 
 point. This personally is my favorite mode. The second mode is called Raid. In Raid, the Lineage 
 team attempts to steal the artifact from the RNA team and take it two their extraction point while 
 the RNA has to defend it by either destroying the whole team is halting them until time runs out. 
 The 3rd mode Attrition, is basically just team deathmatch. The round ends when the other team is 
 eliminated. The only twist in Attrition is that when you pick up the artifact in the level, you 
 can see exactly where all the opponents are on the map. I'm not completely sure, but every game 
 I have played has had the match end when a team gets 6 or 7 (I think 7) points for all gametypes. 
 There are 9 maps total, some are strictly Raid and some Extraction, but I believe all can be played 
 in Attrition.
  
  The game does suffer from a lack of a single player campaign, since there are only 6 training levels 
 to complete, and it only takes about an hour and a half to get through all of them. Also, fans 
 of the classic role playing game will disappointed that the only real story telling is a prologue 
 for each training mission which are dull and you will probably skip over them. You can do single 
 player bot simulations too, which are actually extremely challenging and can really help for multiplayer.
 
  
  Shadowrun is a great, challenging game that will keep you coming back for more. What it lacks in 
 content, it makes up for in customization and innovative gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolspikes
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Shadow run is awesome, very fun, alot of stuff to do, and alot of detail went into making this 
 game, but if u dont have Xbox live then u are pretty much out of luck, u can only do training if 
 u have no online, this game would of been better if there was a single player, there is a story 
 but they didint put it into a single player story wich would have made the game in my opinion one 
 of the coolest games, thats really all that is missing from shadowrun, the graphics are very good, 
 the weapons are freaken sweet, and the powers, and the techs are awesome too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xraycat7055
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I took a quick liking to it and I am getting progressively better. At first, 
 I thought this game would lack because of the scarce single player, but all you gotta do is train 
 against bots for about half an hour and you are good to hop online against other players. It's 
 extremely exciting when everyone is rushing to resurrect you because you are the best player in 
 the room. Graphics are nice and clean. Gameplay is solid. This is the kind of game where you get 
 about 10 Oh-My moments in a match. All of the maps look amazing. Some are hard to navigate without 
 the Teleport ability. Shadowrun is a must play for any hardcore gamer. Solid FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 30, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the old-school pen-and-paper RPG for many years, and when I heard it was finally 
 getting a video game installment, (the previous ones on the Sega and Super Nintendo do not elude 
 me, but I felt it was time for an update) , I was ecstatic. Then I found out it was a team based 
 first person shooter, and my heart sank. I immediately found myself judging this game as a failure 
 for running away from its roots...... boy, was I wrong!
  
  The learning curve in this game is very high, and the AI will punish you..... but the characters 
 each have their pluses and minuses and knowing how to use these pluses and minuses effectively 
 is what will win the game.
  
  There are several spells and tech to choose from and it will keep the action playing fresh, and 
 joining a match late means you will be severely out matched as you buy these spells and techs during 
 match startups. The tech and spells from the previous match carry over and you get more money for 
 more spells and tech (kinda like leveling up....)
  
  I felt a sense of pride when I flew over enemies in a glider, threw a demon down on top of them 
 and teleported through a nearby wall to laugh as I see their deaths flash up in my HUD! I also 
 enjoyed raining lead unto enemies while not hitting allies as my Troll ignored the damage and the 
 aiming implant made sure my allies weren't caught up in my barrage.
  
  There is also humans, who, while not having a big essence pool, have a cool ability to ignore tech 
 penalties and go straight cyborg on people while other races have to make do with one or two tech 
 implants.
  
  Essence is the force you use for casting spells, and it regenerates differently depending on race.
 
  
  There is alot complex and creative ways to make your character play in this game, but you will 
 have to play fast or die even faster. (Don't let death scare you, as players can buy a resurrection 
 spell as well.)
  
  Indeed there have been games I have played where my entire team had died and finished the same 
 game with all of my teammates alive at the end.
  
  Again, if you are new to the game, you will be punished and it doesn't break in easily, but it 
 will truly feel rewarding when you find the character that plays how you want them too. I would 
 suggest a rental before a purchase as casual gamers will have a hard time adjusting and may think 
 poorly of a game that punishes them so badly..... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
