-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shaun White Snowboarding
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/shaunwhitesnowboarding/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Mountains are huge and look quite nice.
 Throwing snowballs at buddies is a welcome treat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Platforming in a snowboarding game is an awful idea.
 No sense of speed.
 Focus meter depletes way too quickly.
 Only four mountains, three of which are fictitious.
 Crashes are lame.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.1, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 284 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Snowboarding
Date: Nov 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Frustrating issues make Shaun White Snowboarding seem less like a downhill rush and more like an 
 uphill grind. 

  Shaun White is a real person. He is famous for riding boards (of both the skate and snow variety) 
 and winning medals in international competitions. The snowboarding game to which he has lent his 
 name seems to take place in the real world, where gravity limits how high you can jump and what 
 sort of tricks you can pull off. Unfortunately, Shaun White Snowboarding too often breaks away 
 from this realistic depiction. The activities you'll be competing in so wildly clash with the actual 
 sport that this feels more like a poorly conceived platformer than an exciting sporting extravaganza. 
 Because of the dichotomy between real-life actions and fantasy land adventuring, Shaun White's 
 first game is choppy, unfocused, and way too aggravating to be fun.  

           Sure, the snow looks pretty, but it gives polar bears ample opportunity to ambush you. 

  Shaun White Snowboarding offers four huge mountains that you are free to explore however you wish; 
 there are no time limits or preset paths to follow. Taking part in freestyle activities or trying 
 to find the best places to perform tricks in this open world can be mildly entertaining, but there 
 is structure when you tire of trying to make your own fun. Though you'll be asked to create your 
 own character at the start of the game, your actual role is little more than errand boy (or girl) 
 for Shaun White. The limited cutscenes -- including White's awkward stab at asking out a girl -- are 
 a poor attempt at creating a likable universe in which to grind fallen trees. Unfortunately, the 
 snowboarding is every bit as shallow as the story. The simple controls let you spin and grab your 
 board with ease, but the experience lacks impact; it feels as if you're hovering slightly above 
 the earth at all times instead of carving a path down a snowy mountain. The sense of speed is also 
 nonexistent; even when you're flying down a nearly vertical slope at top speeds, complete with 
 unnecessary motion blur, it still feels slower than a child would travel on a backyard sled. And 
 when you do crash, instead of wreaking havoc to your fragile body, you'll gracefully bounce back 
 onto your feet with only a slight dip in velocity.  

  And instead of progressing through the game by pulling off wicked grabs and gravity-defying flips, 
 you'll spend the majority of your time trying to track down hard-to-reach coins. While this mechanic 
 serves as the backbone for many enjoyable platformers, it is arduous in a game with such poor locomotion. 
 Navigating around the environment with a board strapped to your feet is way too finicky, making 
 the continual backtracking to grind a string of rickety planks or nail the perfect angle off a 
 ramp an absolute chore. Your reward for grabbing the coins is a whole new batch distributed across 
 the four mountains. Each round of collecting comes with a new focus power, which lets you break 
 down walls, go slightly faster, or catch extra air off a ramp. Unfortunately, your focus ability 
 is tied to a diminishing meter that requires you to perform tricks to fill it. This means you'll 
 have one or two attempts to snatch a coin before you're relegated to performing random tricks for 
 10 minutes to get another chance at the prize.  

  When you finally nab every coin, you'll be treated to a series of events that test your ability 
 to pull off death-defying tricks. Actual snowboarding at last! Sadly, these events are only slightly 
 more tolerable than the inane fetch quests they follow. The trick system is far too limited to 
 hold your interest for long. Also, the focus abilities that give you super powers are often removed 
 during these activities, which means you cant perform the higher leaps and other feats you earned -- so 
 in comparison, your jumping ability feels even more stunted and unsatisfying. There is also a severe 
 lack of variety among the four mountain ranges. Aside from Park City these are fictional locations -- taking 
 place in the nebulous "Europe" as opposed to a real resort like Zermatt -- but the cavalcade of fallen 
 trees and submerged cabins becomes monotonous before long. And while the unfettered canvas of snow 
 and rocky cliffs look quite impressive, the stilted animations of your rider combined with unpredictable 
 collision detection remove any chance of immersion.  

           Nothing says extreme quite like grinding up a tree.      

  Thankfully, the multiplayer 
 mode brings a little bit of life to this package. Up to 16 players can take to a mountain at one 
 time, venturing wherever they like in the open world. Any forced exploration has been removed here; 
 players can grind and flip in whatever manner they please. There are a number of different events 
 littered around the slopes to compete in, too. The simple racing and jibbing exercises are only 
 mildly interesting on their own, but the ability to toss snowballs at your competitors adds a little 
 bit of chaotic joy to the mix. Performing a perfect 1080 can be fun, but it's even more entertaining 
 pelting your buddy just before he or she lands a particularly difficult trick. Many of the same 
 flaws present in the single-player mode are just as noticeable here, so don't expect more than 
 a few runs before you tire of the simple tricks and touchy physics. Still, this is clearly the 
 most entertaining aspect of the game.  

  Shaun White Snowboarding never commits to being either a realistic simulation or an over-the-top, 
 arcade-style game -- which makes the experience feel uneven and unsatisfying. The long deviation 
 to platforming exploration feels decidedly out of place here, conjuring up excruciating trials 
 that have almost nothing to do with the actual sport. However, even as a pure snowboarding game, 
 Shaun White comes up way short. Mindlessly performing tricks either by yourself or with friends 
 can be enjoyable for a while, but the lack of depth ensures your attention won't be grabbed for 
 long. Shaun White Snowboarding is like trying to save a snowball in your freezer until summer -- it 
 seems like a good idea, but never really works out.  

    Editor's Note: This review previously stated that all of the mountains in the game are fictitious. 
 In fact, Park City is based on a resort in Utah. GameSpot regrets the error.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Digital_Dave
Rating: 2.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 10:24 am PT
Review:  **This game is not challenging at all to play and I bored of it in 20 minutes. Why do they still 
 make games like this with those balance meters on rails, that is the worst idea ever. I went into 
 this game with high expectations because I heard rumors it was supposed to be a realistic take 
 on snowboarding. When I can do a double back flip 360 onto a rail by accident you know how the 
 game is gonna be. By having missions like getting coins and going for ridiculously high scores 
 all that shows is that you're making up for lack of true game play. If you like easy games with 
 no challenge in performing tricks than this is the game for you otherwise avoid this sad excuse 
 for a game at all costs. Companies need to wake up and get creative for their sake and ours.
  Especially in this Economy @ $59.99
  
  I'll Keep my SSX_3 & Ply it on the 360 THX ! ~ 
  Digital_Dave 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 4:03 pm PT
Review:  If you are a person who is very goal based and likes getting objectives then you are not going 
 to enjoy this game!
  
  I have to say that first because its part of what makes so many hate this game. The story is weak, 
 very weak which rely hinders this game from being good quality, as do a few other things put i'll 
 talk about them after.
  
  The first half of the story is not acceptable. 1 out of 10 for 2009. It honestly feels like the 
 game designers sat down for 20 minutes, the first person to have any idea would say it out loud 
 and thats what they would go with.
  
  Seriously collecting coins! Weak... thats really weak.
  
  The second part where you have to 
 finish all the challenges, then beat the ultimate challenge and beat Shaun is alright though.
 
  
  The graphics in this look solid. A lot of white, as it should be.
  
  The physics in the game are questionable. When riding normally they are good, but then when you 
 turn on "Shaun Whites super awesome amazing super cool powers'... i landed a trick with 7 backflips 
 in it. Whatever, some might like that.
  
  Now probably my favourite part, the clothes. Its sweet designing your person in all Burton, or 
 using the same Oakley goggles you have in real life. A lot of the goggles, boards, jackets, pants 
 you could buy the exact same thing in real life.
  
  Now more of the negatives. i started by talking on how the game starts off slow. Well thats mainly 
 beacuse the controls ore oddly designed and they start you off with the worst board in the game 
 and not enough money to buy you a noticably better one.
  
  The difference from the Forum board you start with and the Burton Operator you get after you beat 
 Shaun is crazy.
  
  In conclusion, this game is meant to be taken as a casual extreme game??
  Casual meaning its 
 more just about exploring and free roaming, not moving from objective to objective and extreme 
 because you can land 7 backflips.
  
  GS, in my opinion was harsh with the 'mediocre 5' and nominating for worst game everyone played. 
 My 8 is kind of high. Its mostly beacuse I like Snowboarding and snowboarding games and I feel 
 sorry for it for getting bad reviews. Disagree agree with my review if you want, its only my opinion, 
 believe what you want.
  
  St0k3d
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Shaun White snowboaring grabs me as the kind of game you can do with if you miss your snowboard 
 and wish you had booked that snowy holiday to the mountains this year, of course its not like the 
 real thing its kind of going to take a long time before the recreate full VR snowboarding to quite 
 the state of the chill you get on the slopes. With an assortment of gear to customise your rider 
 and a few unlockable gear from just registering online with Ubi I find snowboarding on the SW format 
 pleasurable. To grab the most air and speed your going to have to unlock missions and grab medallions 
 which aren't so tough. It only becomes tough once you have unlocked all speed, strength and air 
 boosts. Its all done in a really playable way opening up the mountain could of have been done better 
 but free ride options allow you to customise where you wish to go, saving struggles to the top 
 a choice of chair lift or simply pushing 'back' on your controller and then selecting your destination. 
 Multiplayer can be fun with friends, but is crammed full of people only wishing to gain $ and performing 
 un-notable glitchy flips over and over again which looks kind of stupid and puts a hampering on 
 your actual learning curve. Why pull off a long trick when you can just do that one trick over 
 and over. Sad really. But its about pulling off tricks and not flattening out face first fast. 
 The tricks make sense but so far I didn't lock anything extra amazing or cool. Perhaps that is 
 later in the game. Don't get frustrated with the game, cause you will only be fooling yourself. 
 Get what you can out of it, enjoy the ride, the stoked music, and then sell it or exchange it. 
 Peace out brother. Long live the snow! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BattleBus360
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:01 pm PT
Review:  I bought Shaun White Snowboarding just for the System link part of it add because it is the closest 
 thing to a System link sports game that I could find for the Xbox 360 (2 to 16 system link) . I 
 needed more variety of system link games in Battle Bus 360 for people to play. I was both surprised 
 and disappointed to find out that the Target addition of Shaun White Snowboarding is not compatible 
 to the regular version via system link, so I lost out buying that one. As far as a single player 
 game, $60 would be too much to pay for a game that gets old much too quickly, tricks are to few 
 and the sense of speed is lacking enough to take away from what could have been another fun part 
 of this game. Even so, it was worth adding to my list of system link games that was other wise 
 missing a System link sports game. This is a closest that I could find and with other players and 
 snowball fights, it was good enough to fill this slot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zenmaestro65
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 4:37 am PT
Review:  The reviews had put me off this game, however I kept seeing it at bargain prices so I checked Gamespot. 
 I use the gamers scores (and too a point the average reviews score) as my bible to a games true 
 worth. Shaun White clearly fell in the "Love it or Think it's mediocre category so when I got the 
 opportunity to pick it up dirt cheap I thought I would give it a try.
  Overall I am very happy with it, yes it could be a lot better but it is still a lot of fun. The 
 coin collecting is a excuse for further runs down the slope.
  The graphics I feel work well and are definitely adequate, I was confused by the reviews I had 
 read regarding the graphics as they were contradictory, some said excellent and others said PSone/N64 
 quality, I have an HD TV but would imagine even on a SD TV anyone thinking the graphics were PSone/N64 
 quality are looking through rose tinted spectacles!.
  The camera gives you options of different views and I love the one which is zoomed in close, slightly 
 at one side in a Res-Evil 4 kind of way.
  My biggest gripe with the game is not the game itself but the decision to only sell 80% of the 
 game (so really my score should be 6) unless you bought the game from Target. I do not approve 
 of exclusive DLC but at least it is generally things you don't really need but too have one firth 
 of the game as exclusive DLC is appalling. Particularly as I have not even heard of this Target 
 Store/Chain/Brand or whatever it is. Is it even possible to buy this edition in England?
  Overall I would say it is a game not without its merits and it has definitely amused and entertained 
 me for a while, definitely worth getting a bargain price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edge_Canada
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Shaun White Snowboarding (Xbox 360) is one of the best snowboarding games in the video game world 
 today. Graphics are excellent and the controls are very easy to pick up and are also well designed 
 for tricks. Some of my problems with the game is that there are only 4 mountains to choose from 
 and are all avaliable from the start. Lucklily, they are all fun to replay and are extremly large. 
 There are unlockables to buy with earned money but there are not that many so that part of the 
 game could have been improved. Examples of unlockables are clothing and different snowboards. (I 
 would have prefered that you could ride without goggles, hats or backpacks, but in the end it doesn't 
 make a big difference. Some cool features are that you can go up chairlifts whenever you want, 
 get dropped off from a helicopter on top of a mountain (avalanches can occur) and just explore 
 the villiage. Defiantly worth adding to anyone's collection of games. Big ups in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdex8
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a bad game even though it has gotten some pretty rough reviews. If you like snowboarding 
 and actually snowboard in real life then you will understand the game a little bit better. One 
 thing that I like about this game is there is wide open mountains, and you can snowboard where 
 ever you want to. Throwing snowballs at other snowboarders is a pretty neat feature and the online 
 play is not bad. The only thing that would make this game better is if there was more big competitions. 
 There are some pretty big jumps in the game and the achievements are not really that hard to get 
 but again the jumps are BIG! It's pretty sick when you throw down a 1440 rodeo with a method grab 
 off a huge cliff at the top of some ridiculously huge mountain. Honestly though this game is worth 
 buying, you might want to rent it first but it is still a game that you would want in your game 
 library. Just buy it and become a Shaun White fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrPepper124
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm not much of a snowboarder myself, but the concept seems fun. So I asked for it for christmas 
 and got it. I played It And Accidentally skipped the tutorial so i had to learn on my own. After 
 about 20 i understood how to use all of the controls all the mountins are fun Alaska is The Funnest, 
 Park City being the worst. Xbox Live Is Fun Because you can just ride and chil with your friends 
 or you can get everyone in the party to play a game like KOTH, a Race, Freestyle etc. I'm not very 
 far into the story because its soo fun just riding around with your friends but i would imagine 
 that it would be enjoyable. I don't know why GS gave this game such a bad rating. It's so much 
 fun. If you like snowboarding and just like hittin' the slopes and talkin' with your friends, than 
 this is a good game for you. The challenges are all have thier ups and downs. Overall i recommend 
 this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xhoshxmoshx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  First off, when I bought this, I thought this was going to be exactly like the old cool borders 
 games. I was horribly mistaken. I started off riding a helicopter up the very top of the Park City 
 mountain, and was amazed at what was in front of me. When I started off, I didn't have much choice 
 but to go down. I quickly came across some inviting paths and slopes, which were followed by enormous 
 cliffs, which gives you enough air time to score massive amounts of points. As I continued, everything 
 I saw, from cliff to cliff was completely natural and beautiful, every last inch. Continuing down, 
 I started to see some forest, and accidentally ran into a tree. I saw many paths leading off of 
 the one I was taking, took a few, and ended up back on one of the main slopes. After some time 
 speeding down the mountain and launching of the natural slopes, I started to see some other boarders, 
 and the, some made made slopes and rails. I must be getting to the half way point. On the rest 
 of the way down, I saw a bunch of rails, giant man-made slopes, half-pipes, chair lifts, tournament 
 spots, and boarders (got hit with a snow ball once) . Then, at the bottom, I realized that it was 
 time to begin my task. Collecting those euros.
  
  This is when the game began to let me down. It was pretty easy at park city's mountain, but once 
 at the other mountains, it was a little irritating. I started at the top of the first mountain, 
 and passed up the slope I needed to take. Since it is to boring, slow, and annoying to go back, 
 I just started at a near by chair lift. I found out that wasn't even the right one. It took a few 
 tries until I finally got it, especially on the harder ones where it is very possible for you to 
 completely pass it up. Another thing that made this annoying is that a times, your person your 
 controlling gets stuck, and the games acts as if he's still moving.
  
  
  
  Graphics - B
  
  A haven't had time to compare the graphics to other Xbox 360 games, but when 
 I stood on top of Alaska's Mountain's peak, I almost wet my pants.
  
  
  Sound - A
  
  I have never went snowboarding, but the sound in this game is incredibly realistic.
  
  
  
 Motion - B
  
  This game has very realistic movements. However, speed between a steep slope and a gradual slope 
 does not have mush difference.
  
  
  Quality - C
  
  Like I mentioned above, that glitch can make this game quite irritating.
  
  
  Gameplay - 
 A
  
  I am sure we all know what snowboarding is, this game sure does know.
  
  
  Online - (hold on)
  
  I don't have my Xbox live set up yet, but I will update this when I do.
 
  
  
  
  I would recommend this to anyone who can live with a flaw or two, and has online access, or anyone 
 who loves game freedom, which means not having many limits, because this game, has hardly any limits. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exclusiveburner
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say my review is based on the PC version, although I use an X360 controller. 
  
  For starters this game is terrible. From the typical gameplay to the horrible features theres 
 no fun to be had here. I feel like I went back into time about 10 years to when Cool Boarders 1 
 came out, but even now that game is superior to Shaun Whites Rubbish.
  
  There's nothing to separate this game from anything we've seen in the past. Not only are the tricks 
 lacking, but the graphics, sound, design, and overall total package seems like it was made on an 
 extremely small budget which is odd being that Ubisoft is behind this.
  
  Quality control must have been snoozing when it let this one get past. This is why people bootleg/pirate 
 games, because nobody should pay for this, this shouldn't even be a $5 download its that bad. You 
 will regret your purchase severely. I can't even recommend trying the demo because it be a waste 
 of time and hard drive space.
  
  The level design is amateur at best, as games like Cool Boarders surpass this in nearly every way 
 and form and that game is 10 years old. 
  
  So once again, and sure to repeat we get a "Next Gen" game lacking any "Next Gen" features. The 
 gameplay is beyond typical, they did nothing to spice it up at all except the ability to throw 
 snowballs at people which is boring after the first try. You can take helicopters back up the mountain 
 that feel more like work then anything else. People don't like this game for a reason, because 
 its not fun. The project manager on this title should be fired instantly, I do not care how long 
 they've worked on this project it was a complete waste of time. They need to hire a man like myself 
 (a gamer) to help improve games quality before they even try selling them. Putting Shaun White 
 on it might help it sell, but I guarantee even he hates this game. 1/10 Rubbish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tholepin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Honestly you'll probably bail a lot at first (+ tutorial doesn't help at all and some of the collision 
 animation is non-existant or weird) , which is not so fun, but once you understand the controls 
 this isn't much of an issue anymore. Note this:
  
  Right trigger press is crouch and release is jump. Left stick controls movement back & forth, but 
 don't keep it pressed forward while you jump or you will try to do a forward flip and probably 
 hit your head. Start off knowing these two things and you're life will be a lot easier.
  
  Once you get used to it, you can just glide down the mountain, tricking this way and that, choosing 
 whatever path you like, exploring, listening to music (D-pad left to get the MP3 player and then 
 use the buttons to skip, stop, change songs or playlists, etc - and if you have your own playlists 
 on your XBOX you can access those too - which really adds to the sense of freedom) . Also, turning 
 off the music entirely is cool too because you can hear more of the ambient sounds.
  
  About the plot, well I just skip all the scripted scenes and ignore the "challenges" and coins, 
 and just go exploring - I don't think you miss out on anything this way, actually, because the 
 mountains themselves are the real characters in the game. Alaska is my favorite because I like 
 the open and dangerous spaces at the top, and the sense of distance. I also like the ice castle 
 in Japan and the small towns in Europe (though I wish you could trick on the objects there) . The 
 game is a bit more on the simulation side, except when you play multi-player, in which case it's 
 pretty fun to try out the challenges with your friends.
  
  The only problem in multi-player is that some challenges you have to wait and watch everyone's 
 run, which is annoying, but I just avoid those (unless it's just one other person) and I do the 
 ones that you can play simultaneously (death race, big air, stuff like that) which are very cool.
 
  
  But that's the good thing about this game, actually - that you're free to do whatever challenges 
 you like and to ignore whatever you don't like, and you can always warp in and out of, or to a 
 different spot on, the mountains... a bit non-linear, which is why I think GS didn't like it, but 
 I think it's quite fun when you know how to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhinerx4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  When you first start playing this game the controls take a while to get used too (especially if 
 you played SSX) . But after you get a faster board and get comfortable with the controls, this game 
 is awesome. No flashy colors that SSX had and no "UBERS" but once you get all 12 coins (which are 
 actually challenging to get especially with a friend online) you get these special features that 
 increase speed and give you huge airtime like SSX. One thing that this game has over other snowboard 
 games is the ability to turn the board sharper even while holding the jump button down. In SSX 
 you had to release it (making you jump) and totally messing up the turn you were going into. If 
 your trying to get something in this game you can set a marker there and then warp and retry if 
 you mess up. This makes it way easier to get the tokens you have to pickup. I waited 2 weeks before 
 I picked up my copy from Target because of Gamespots 5.0 rating. DO NOT LISTEN TO THERE REVIEW 
 AND IF SO YOU'LL PROBABLY NEVER PLAY THIS GREAT GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshpunx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  graphics- the graphics are very good, if like me you go sking/snowboarding every year, you will 
 just enjoy riding down the mountain and feeling like 'i cant wait for january'. the snow looks 
 amazing and the rider looks just as good.
  
  gameplay- the gameplay has its good and its bad points. the rider feels smooth when riding down 
 the mountain but often when you land from a jump it feels jerky and when bailing the rider looks 
 terrible. it is good that the rider can get off his board and walk but you often can't get up to 
 places that you would like to because of the steepness of the slope (so whats the point) . 
  
  controls- the controls suprised me. i thought they would just be the same as the tony hawk 
 series, but they are pritty good, the trigger is to ollie and the anolog stick to grab which is 
 a good and unique way which works.
  
  story line- the story kinda sucks, but yet you still want to complete it. you have to collect coins 
 in different countries, once you have shaun takes you to the next location and shows you a new 
 tecnique like e. g speed boost's.
  
  overall- its a cross between the tony hawk series and skate. its realistic but you can still do 
 tripple backflips. if you snowboard yourself, you will like the game, if not rent it and give it 
 a go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesportsfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is pretty good. To start off, the one aspect that many people will hate about this 
 game is that you have to collect coins to get better. Or, as Shaun White says, get super powers. 
 All along getting all 48 coins I pretty much hated it. Its annoying because you have to do some 
 pretty insane stuff to get these coins. Most of you will probably stop after getting the 1st set 
 of 12 but I didnt. I ended up getting all 48 which I thought was pretty tough. Anyway single player 
 is pretty fun while on your quest to get all the coins but after that there really is no point 
 or plot to single player. Online, however, is quite fun if you have friends that have the game 
 because it is like being on a real mountain. Like the gamespot review stated, the game isnt quite 
 realistic. They say it is in the beginning but it really never is why is why i personally like 
 the game. If it was realistic, then I can guarantee the game would be terrible because the best 
 trick anyone could do would be a 180. And no, you cant have your character wear the Shaun White 
 bandanna. If your looking for a fun snowboarding game with no plot and are willing to get all the 
 coins, then this is the game for you. If your looking for realism, then keep playing 1080 on your 
 Nintendo 64. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Storyteller89
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  First of all, do not listen to all the negative reviews this game got. It's not all that bad. It 
 is no masterpiece, but it certainly is the best snowboarding game for the new consoles. The first 
 impression, when you start playing the game, you'll think: "The graphics suck, the controls suck, 
 this game can't be any good." At least that's how I felt and honestly that's how a lot of players 
 felt at first. However, after having a little break and coming back to play the game in afternoon, 
 I learned to do the tricks right, I learned the controls and this game started to be a lot of fun. 
 I mean really, as in snowboarding, it's not like they give you the board and you can just go do 
 the tricks, in this game you have to learn the controls and trust me. Once you learn them, they 
 won't feel that bad anymore. It won't take even more than one to two hours to learn the basic controls 
 and make the game roll smoothly.
  
  First I shall go to the bad things about this game. The graphics aren't really good, but not that 
 bad either. I mean, you can certainly live with them. They're just a little better than Wii's graphics, 
 so go figure how it looks like. Then the fact that there're only four mountains, however I'm sure 
 they will let you download more from your console network, once they've created more. Choosing 
 your face is a good option, but the fact that there's only one face with beard, no dreadlocks, 
 a few guys with just a little longer hair and the rest are pretty much the same is not a good selection. 
 I'm sure you'll still find a face just for you, anyway. As I mentioned, the first impression is 
 not a good thing, but it may also be a good thing. When I started snowboarding, I thought, hell 
 no. I will never learn this. I had the same feeling about the game, it felt too hard, cause of 
 the controls and so, but it didn't take long 'till I learned the controls and the game became really 
 fun. What I could say about the game is, that it creates a snowboarder of you and that if something 
 is a challenge for a game. Sometimes landing makes it feel a little like you'd be a rock, but while 
 playing I can assure you, it will be only sometimes, not like on the clips you've seen.
  
  Then the good things. I could put this short and say all the rest, but I'll explain you a few things. 
 The selection of jackets, boards, gloves and all the stuff you could imagine for a snowboarder 
 is wide and good. As a bonus, there are few "funny" costumes. The boards do have a difference and 
 meaning for different kind of snowboarding, so it's not just about the looks. After learning the 
 controls (and trust me, you will learn them in 1 to 2 hours, doesn't matter how good gamer you 
 are) , the gameplay becomes real fun and you'll certainly enjoy it for many years. As a bonus, it 
 also makes you feel like you want to go snowboard yourself. Each one of the four mountains provides 
 a wide snowboarding area and that's certainly a good thing. Every idea of the game is realistic, 
 so you won't have to worry about getting another Amped 3.
  
  Overall, this game is definately the best snowboarding game for the new consoles and I do recommend 
 this for every snowboarder and gamers who like these type of games. It may be hard at first, but 
 you'll get into it and boy will you love it after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stephen149
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I mean, it's no Amped 2, i thought that game was amazing, but it's still a fun game. It's cool 
 how they made it really realistic. Unlike Amped, you can't nose press your way all the way down 
 the mountain and you can't grind the ski lift. Everything is like real tricks and it's sick to 
 stomp even just a 720.
  
  There's so many wicked features too. You can throw snowballs at people while going down the hill 
 (some challenges are based on this) and you can get off your board and walk around. If you miss 
 a jump you wanted to hit you can get off and walk back up a bit and line it up; which comes in 
 handy alot actually. And then when your at the bottom of the hill you can unclip your bindings 
 and either walk to the chair lift and ride up that or you can fly to the very top of the mountain 
 on a helicopter.
  
  I'm not sure why everyone is giving it such bad ratings, but I would recommend it to anyone who 
 likes snowboarding games. It's chillin and fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fleener
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 20, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been snowboarding for over 8 years, and have played pretty much every snowboarding game out 
 there. I don't like playing SSX games because I'm more into realism. When Skate came out, I was 
 blown away. The perfect skateboarding game was finally released. By perfect I mean realistic and 
 the controls were great. No more of this Tony Hawk unrealistic stupid skateboarding. Then I heard 
 about Shaun White Snowboarding and was excited. First there is only one snowboard game on the xbox 
 360, that being Amped 3. Which, I actually enjoyed a lot. I heard that Shaun white was going to 
 have a "Skate" feeling and I was excited to say the least. First off, it's nothing like "Skate". 
 To jump, you use the bumper, not the joystick. Next, the game is about as unrealistic as you can 
 get. Maybe not as much as SSX, but it's not realistic at all. I wasn't really looking for a 1080 
 realistic (although that game was great) , but Shaun White Snowboarding is too far out there. Finally, 
 the game is just bad. The mountains are nice, and the visuals are great. But, the animations don't 
 look good, the tricks don't look good, and it doesn't feel right. You can barely get enough speed 
 to do anything, and it makes you feel like your player weighs about 500 pounds. On some jumps, 
 you just stop on the top before you can even do a trick. 
  
  Final notes. RENT IT!!! Do not go out and buy this game, you will most likely be disappointed. 
 The reviews are correct, this is probably the worst snowboard game ever made. Which sucks because 
 I really wanted to like this game, but it never gave me a chance too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_j_jackson
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  The control system is simple and easy to use but lacks that little something, SSX 3's uber tricks 
 or Amped 3's plain stupidity. The game itself looks amazing and plays pretty well, the collecting 
 of the coins can become frustrating but that keeps you coming back to it making you want to play 
 more and more. Shaun White is no SSX3 but it does deliver a buzz for the fan of the snowboarding 
 genre which will last until the next gen installment of SSX (if it ever happens) . I haven't yet 
 played this game to it's completion but I have sampled every fantastic environment each one looking 
 better than the last and the game controls are simple and effective. The d-pad controls are fantastic 
 with accessing multiplayer, and music controls only a few buttons away. Also they are great at 
 helping with the coin collection process, the marker system that allows you to place a point where 
 you need to re-spawn is incredibly effective. So far overall this game is disapointing but still 
 looks great and plays pretty well so I give it a 7 out of 10 and that's just because I love the 
 genre. Roll on the next gen SSX is all I can say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that Stoked could be a game where the only mode in it was to watch snowboarding 
 movies, and it would already be a much more involving story than in Shaun White Snowboarding. For 
 some reason, in the beginning of the game, they introduce you to a series of characters, none of 
 which matter.
  
  The game throws you into an overly crowded experience to make the player feel overwhelmed right 
 from the start. The control scheme is actually horrible, and you don't know what you are supposed 
 to do, if anything. Then Shaun introduces you to this rather pointless crew of people, and informs 
 you that you actually bought a platformer, for those who bought it. What I mean by that is that 
 you are supposed to collect a series of coins in different worlds... wow, now THAT is fun. Thankfully 
 I did not buy and only rented. After that Shaun basically says, okay, now we will give you no linear 
 goals and allow you to go around in this world. At first I was optimistic, but optimism quickly 
 changed to disappointment at the number of invisible walls, the unrealistic way the other snowboarders 
 walk into the same garbage can for ten minutes.
  
  The experience just does not feel right. It is bloated and it underperforms at the very least, 
 my 6.5 expectation. I thought it would be good to snowboard and bad for the rest, which I could 
 have lived with. This game was a good idea, but ultimately horrible execution. This game should 
 have been more like the original Tony Hawk's Underground game, and not some "Shaun White is the 
 greatest snowboarder and HE will take you under his wing" game.
  
  In fact, they give no reason as to why Shaun wanted to help you out. All they have Shaun see is 
 one time where you wipe out, and it isn't even controlled by you.
  
  Regarding snowboarding, a character could fall off of Mount Everest and would not be phased by 
 it slightly, he would just get up and keep snowboarding. No momentum ever builds up, which you 
 would think would happen considering you are going down a MOUNTAIN!!!
  
  Overall, this might be the biggest disappointment and the worst excuse for a game I have ever played. 
 I definitely do not recommend this game, even to the biggest Shaun White fan who ever lived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suibversyve
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those no brainers that I hesitate to even field after so many years of reviews. 
 I think others said it best, something to the effect of "Your crazy! This game rocks!" and I must 
 agree. Being a "old school" gamer, I'm quite picky on games, and have seen many pathetic failures 
 at creating them in the "extreme sports" genre. This is not a failure, and it's much better than 
 the mediocre 5.0 given. 
  
  The graphics are crisp, the colors fairly accurate and the framerates high enough to give you a 
 feeling of liquid speed. Sound wise, you'll need surround to appreciate the trees and rocks rushing 
 by, and the silencing whistle of the wind as you launch off a huge cliff. Of course, being open 
 world, your free to refrain from launching off huge cliffs, but I'd recommend you try it at least 
 once ;)
  
  I'll step out on a limb and call it the best snowboarding game I've played yet, although we'll 
 see if that changes with Stoked coming out in late Dec, but for now, I'll be gouging powder on 
 SWSnowboarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3urtonUnit
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Really this game is great. When I first played it I was pissed that I wasted my money. The next 
 day I give it a shot again and enjoyed it. I found myself WANTING to play it through out the rest 
 of the day. Once you get better gear in the game the real fun starts its a really great game you 
 just gotta give it more then one shot and actually try some tasks. I have that Target version and 
 heard that it is slightly better than the other version so I suggest going for the Target version. 
 Just trust me and some other people also agree it takes more than one quick play to really enjoy 
 this. So give it a shot! Buy the game! I gurantee you will enjoy it. I havent tried online play 
 due to the fact I no longer have Live but once I purchase it again I think it will be another very 
 fun part to the game. Also when you get to play as Shaun its CRAZY! The tricks become massive everything 
 is also tons better, the Target mountain is also another awesome bonus. Even though there are only 
 5 mountains (Target Mountain would make 6) each of them take 10 minutes if you just go straight 
 down there are countless amounts of options of paths to take and you make it all! Hours of fun 
 are waiting for you if you give this game more then one shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunshat
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  An errection come every time i play this game, It's so funny :D it is definitly the best snowboard 
 game since AMPED 2. The only thing tnat i didn't liked was the way to SPIN, i want to land some 
 big trick but i'm stocked with the 720 or 540... Anyway great game. the mountain are amazing, graphic 
 are really good, and the coats are nice plus the sound track rock and i listen hip hop but i like 
 the old school music when i ride. i don't understand why the score is so low. An other thing that 
 i think should be review is the missions that Shaun White give to you, they are not really original 
 they should make a better  
 . . . . .. . . .  Sorry i'm french and i don't 
 have anything ealse to say thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAM_JR_123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  great game it just takes some time to get used to it as far as im concerned it blows any snowboarding 
 game on the market out of the water . 
  visuals : the visuals are not bad not as good as i expected but still not bad the environments 
 are pretty good looking as well 
  Gameplay:
  
  the gameplay is very good once you get into the game you get focus powers to speed you up which 
 makes the game very fun and changes the game a lot in a good way 
  audio:
  
  the soundtrack on this game is very good but the voice acting is not at all good they should have 
 done a better god in this department
  
  things the game could improve on!
  
  the visuals could be better there good now but still could be better and the voice acting need 
 some major work other than that nothing i love the game
  
  overall:
  
  i do like this game a lot it grows on you and i cant wait to see what stocked brings to the table!!
 
  
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: broskiii
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Im going to make this short and sweet. The game has INCREDIBLE potential. The graphics are great, 
 the mountains are incredibly indepth, the online play is alot of fun and really gives you the feel 
 of hanging out with friends on a mountain, however the game has no story line. No true point. No 
 real end result. The closest you get is finding these annoying EUROs all over the place.
  
  I again, enjoy this game because I am a snowboarder and it does really make me feel like i am out 
 there on the slopes but this is really almost not a game. More so a simulator. that might be a 
 stretch, but when you play it, you'll understand.
  
  Online play is fun, but buggy. Alot of times I am being hit my invisible snowballs. Players doing 
 tricks have slow framerates, and I also feel like I get stuck in weird places. But again, the online 
 play is fun, and easy to meet other players and set up competitions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popkorn224
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Even though i still haven't bought it, i think it's a nice game after trying it at my store. The 
 graphics was the first thing that hit my eyes: almost every snow detail was shown. The tracks were 
 quite good and the characters were well made. What i also liked was that i found a little bit of 
 tony hawk with the fact that you can walk or slide as you wish and interact with some stories through 
 this. What i didn't like was the fact that when you tried to go fast, you didn't feel as if you 
 were. The grab and spin is good, but the rest isn't very well made. Even though it has some bad 
 sides, i still liked this game and i'm previewing to buy it for x-mas. I really hope that there 
 will be a Shaun White 2 with a lot of better options and a little touch of realism on itm which 
 would make, i'm sure, the wintersport game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videojat
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Shaun White Snowboarding is more realistic then 1080 and amped. It is difficult to pick up speed 
 (as it would be in powder) . The mountains have amazing detail! With FREE ROAM so there ARE unlimited 
 amounts of different and challenging runs. I purchased the target exclusive version for $50 and 
 love the extra target mountain!! Shaun White Snowboarding is a very enjoyable snowboarding game. 
 Running around helps when you might "just" miss a coin so you can run up and get it. The game is 
 not super easy and actually kinda difficult which is good because a lot of snowboarding games have 
 been super easy because you go super fast. Super fast boarding though is bad because then you miss 
 everything and cant enjoy the scenery. Shaun white is def a little harder to "pick up and play" 
 but once you get the hang of it, it is an awesome game. Just gong down the mountain is awesome!! 
 I would recommend this game for anyone who is a snowboarder or enjoys a nice relaxing trip down 
 a mountain!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandortom
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Yup, the "only 4 mountain" stuff is the real weakness of the game, though the realistic riding 
 environment, sounds etc. gives us (the snowboarders) the enthusiasm for riding till the snow season 
 [eg. during summer :-) ] .
  
  Personally I really do NOT understand the verdict on "No sense of speed", cuz this speed feature 
 makes the game hard enough at many spots on the hills (especially on back-country areas) .
  On the top of this, I really laugh on "lame crashing" review comment, cuz this is a game, no blood 
 or bone break needed. Loosing scoring session and speed during time countdown races is fair enough 
 punishment... what else would be needed?
  Last but not least, it was strange to read the complaint on no real locations existance in the 
 game. These 4 mountains are great and made really interesting with giving plenty ways of havin' 
 fun, so why "real" locations would be needed?
  
  All in all as written above, really worth playing for a couple of hours weekly ;-) ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
