-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ShellShock 2: Blood Trails
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/shellshock2bloodtrails/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A few good scares, along with some unsettling gore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dumb enemies.
 Terrible controls make accurate aiming almost impossible.
 Simplistic levels based around triggering spawn points.
 Short single-player campaign.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 12, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 2.9, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 5.1, 142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Rebellion
Genre: Historic Shooter
Date: Feb 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ShellShock 2: Blood Trails spices up Vietnam with a liberal application of zombies, but the controls 
 and the generic shooter gameplay leave a lot to be desired. 

  Vietnam shooters apparently need more than just Charlie creeping through the jungle these days. 
 ShellShock 2: Blood Trails takes a sharp left turn away from its gritty, realistic 2004 predecessor, 
 ShellShock: Nam '67, and throws zombie hordes into the expected mix of AK-47s and rice paddies. 
 Combining horror with stereotypical first-person shooter combat does little to make the game stand 
 apart from the crowd, however. While there are a few thrills and chills here, this is too much 
 of a shooter-by-numbers to be engaging to anyone but the least discriminating twitch gamer, and 
 both the 360 and PS3 versions are hampered with horrible controls.  

  The plot introduces ravenous zombies into what is otherwise a standard Vietnam War movie storyline 
 about a kid experiencing the horrors of war for the first time. If you tossed Platoon and 28 Days 
 Later into a blender, this is pretty much what you would pour out. You play as Nate Walker, a raw 
 recruit who touches down in country and is immediately shipped off to a border base under siege 
 by the Vietcong (cue the usual angst about war being hell) . But then the game shifts suddenly from 
 one stereotype into another, with Walker being introduced to his zombie brother, Cal. As you might 
 expect, this isn't much of a family reunion. Just as you're coming to terms with a brain-chomping 
 bro who won't be interested in eating turkey on Thanksgiving anymore, the VC crash the party. Your 
 brother escapes, and soon you're running through the jungle to battle the zombie plague and figure 
 out what the mysterious Whiteknight is before the godless Commies do.  

           You wouldn't think that the combination of the Vietnam War and zombies could be a loser, 
 but, well, here we are.      

  Sound like a decent basis for a shooter? It is, and the Source-engine-based visuals are reasonably 
 good, though a long way from something modern like Crysis. The look of the game is pretty much 
 identical on both the 360 and the PS3, although the latter seems to be a fair bit murkier in corners. 
 While you can crank up the gamma to sort of address this issue, it never completely works on the 
 Sony console and you wind up flailing about in the dark too often. The level design is attractive 
 too, even if it seems like you're running from one Vietnam movie set to another. One moment you're 
 racing through a misty jungle, then you're dealing with booby-trapped VC tunnels, and then you're 
 in a run-down village. You get the picture.  

  At least much of the scenery is chilling. Bloody trails are everywhere, and it seems like you can't 
 walk two feet without encountering a beheaded soldier mounted on a wall, a buddy with his legs 
 blown off, or some poor guy impaled on a bunch of bamboo spikes. The audio doesn't have anywhere 
 near the same impact, though. M-16 and AK-47 fire can barely be heard at times, and there isn't 
 any thump to the rat-a-tat-tat or explosions. There might be some bugs in the sound, because some 
 effects like the swing of a machete cannot be heard at all on either console. Most of the voice 
 acting is well done, however, at least by B-movie standards. The actor playing Walker sounds a 
 lot like a young James Woods, which adds a bit of Hollywood class to the proceedings.  

  But there isn't much game here. ShellShock 2: Blood Trails is very short. The solo campaign can 
 be blasted through in four or five hours, and there are no multiplayer modes, so when you're done, 
 you're done. Replay value is nonexistent due to the simplistic nature of the level design. Actually, 
 "design" is probably too strong a word for how these levels have been slapped together. There isn't 
 any artistry here. Every level is a straight run from point A to point B, with pauses along the 
 way at choke points where you have to hunker down for a few minutes and gun down respawning enemies. 
 Basically, you run along until you meet up with a bunch of fellow Yanks, then you stand still and 
 help them shoot the horde of VC and/or zombie wannabes that start spawning from nearby rooftops, 
 jungle pathways, and the like. Enemies never give any thought to what they're doing and typically 
 just run out of their spawn locations like clowns out of a funny car.  

           Can one thousand throats really be cut in one night by a running man? Let's find out. 

  Yet even these suicidal bad guys aren't enough to compensate for the awful gamepad aiming controls 
 that afflict both the 360 and PS 3 versions of the game. Although there is an assist option to 
 help when you aim with the right analog stick, it doesn't seem to kick in until you have your sights 
 almost perfectly lined up already. It's so ineffectual that it can be hard to tell if you have 
 the assist on or off. Either way, you generally wind up wildly flailing about trying to nail enemies 
 with enough shots to put them down before they send you back home to Uncle Sam in a flag-covered 
 box. Since those aforementioned choke points are typically loaded with a dozen or more baddies 
 coming at you from all directions, expect the latter to happen a lot more than the former.  

  About the only intriguing aspect of combat is a minigame that pops up whenever you get into close 
 combat or you trigger something like a VC booby trap. If you encounter one of these situations, 
 the game surprises you with a quickie challenge where you need to react immediately to avoid certain 
 death. This feature is best realized on the PC and 360, as on those platforms you use simple keyboard 
 and gamepad button combos to stave off doom. On the PS 3, however, close-up reactions are initially 
 handled by wiggling the Sixaxis controller to trigger the motion sensor. Interesting idea, although 
 the Sixaxis doesn't seem up to the task. You have to shake the controller so hard to get a reaction 
 that you have to be careful you don't accidentally let the thing go and boomerang it across the 
 living room. Thankfully, you can turn off the motion-sensing option and go back to the simple button 
 presses exactly the same as on the 360.  

  Chances are good that you won't hate ShellShock 2: Blood Trails. But odds are also high that you 
 won't particularly enjoy it, either, due to the frustrating controls and the forgettable game design. 
 Even if you're interested in the Vietnam War and have a zombie fetish, you can likely find a better 
 use for your money.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wkduffy
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 19, 2009 9:44 pm PT
Review:  If there were such a term as an "Underdog Gamer," I guess I would be it. Everyone can fawn over 
 the next Halo-killer, gush over GOW2's graphics, or wax philosophical about the characterizations 
 of Alex and Gordon in the latest and greatest HL2 episode. That's easy. A blockbuster game is, 
 after all, a blockbuster. Being a raging fan of a triple-A action title is like.. well, it's like 
 eating a box of chocolates. Not too difficult.
  
  What's not easy, however, is playing low-budget games and earnestly looking to see if somewhere -- anywhere -- a 
 redeeming quality is lurking underneath the second-rate graphics or stiff game controls. And as 
 the unofficial president of the Underdog Gamer's Club of Losers, let me say that I've spent countless 
 hours playing crappy games, and I've come away thankfully finding some real gem-moments of gameplay. 
 Not whole gems, but some gem-moments.
  
  In that vein, I am glad to say that Shellshock 2: Blood Trails does, indeed, have a few redeeming 
 characteristics that make it worth playing -- as long as you're the patient type. (Maybe not worth 
 buying, but worth playing.) Here's why:
  
  What Shellshock 2 lacks in just about everything (said graphics and gameplay, dynamic color and 
 lighting, as well as awkward body animations and almost nonexistent facial movement) , it makes 
 up for in T-E-N-S-I-O-N. Shellshock 2 is actually a relatively tension-filled game, and tension 
 is what you want from a war-horror-fps, right? Of course, part of this tension may be unintentional 
 because a good deal of it comes from the fact that the game unfairly piles hordes of undead Vietcong 
 on top of you while shorting you in the ammo and aiming departments. (Yeah, I actually grabbed 
 part of my controller with my teeth and gave it a good munch in frustration at trying to aim correctly -- I 
 was forced to complete one section over a dozen times through no fault of my own.) But in some 
 cases, the very shortcomings of a budget-game, while creating frustration, can also make for a 
 very tense atmosphere. That strange mix of dynamics is what Shellshock 2 has in abundance. In fact 
 (and I may have my tires slashed for saying so) the slow-burn tension in this game, for me, far 
 surpassed the tension I felt playing Silent Hill: Homecoming recently. Just saying, is all.
  
  The other element that Shellshock 2 does right is the story. It's a good story about a scared 
 kid conscripted into war and wondering why his soldier-brother Cal has become a whacked zombie 
 running through the jungle trying to... find him? infect him? eat him? And there are other, competing 
 forces attempting to nab your brother as well; it just so happens that Cal was the last person 
 alive to see Whiteknight (a code name for some experimental war weapon that the Army stupidly lost 
 in transit) , and as Cal zigzags through the jungle, he seems to be creating rabid zombies of anyone 
 he comes into contact with -- presumably an effect of having come into contact with Whiteknight. 
 Anyway, the voice acting is effective, generally. The characters are paper-thin, but the story 
 is actually strong enough to propel the player through the game; any story compelling enough to 
 stop me from tossing my controller into the lit fireplace due to stiff gameplay... well, that has 
 to say something positive.
  
  And let's face it: You become familar with the stiff controls after a while -- we are human beings 
 and adapt fairly well to trying situations, don't we? Additionally, the graphics aren't THAT bad. 
 Some of the tougher-to-create textures and animations are lacking in quality, like fire, explosions, 
 and heat signatures. And my Xbox was barfing up framerates when there was too much fog or smoke 
 on screen. Oops. But the lush jungle, the rickety rope-bridges, the ruined Vietnamese apartment 
 buildings and restaurants, the bombed churches, the riverbeds and mountain ranges -- all of them 
 work well enough in the context of the game. The graphics engine is trying its best to illustrate 
 some draw-distance, though many of the areas do feel claustrophobic -- but again, it's a horror fps, 
 folks. Zombies in cramped quarters... isn't that sort of what we're paying for here?
  
  But ultimately I'm just a rah-rah guy for the underdogs; so if you are the type of person who will 
 only go and see a flick that cost 4 billion to make, or play triple-A titles that garner 90-point 
 metacritic scores... well, best for you to steer clear. You don't have the experience to understand 
 how exactly to appreciate a schlocky underdog game like Shellshock 2 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paddy1986
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 11, 2009 3:31 pm PT
Review:  When I played on Shellshock Nam 67 I nearlly had a heart attack at the fact that Rebellion had 
 taken a project about a hugely controversial and damaging war of recent history and had a pretty 
 decent stab at it, it was enjoyable but also very aware of why very few americans speak about the 
 war. 
  So of course when news broke about there being a sequel I thought this is going to be awesome, 
 unfortunately Rebellion changed the formula tha worked instead of very close to home kick in the 
 ass it went for Vietnam meets the Rage formula from 28 days later which was hugely disappointing.
 
  Don't ge me wrong this game has positives to it aswell such as the dark and claustrophobic nature 
 & feel of the VC & NVA tunnels and campaign wasnt to bad and the story wasnt a bad idea just pulled 
 off incorrectly, the weapons were what was typically found and used such as the AK 47, M16, Mosin 
 Nagant etc and at times the Sergeant that you accompany can be amusing and also annoys the hell 
 out of you.
  
  I do suggest hiring this game before buying it and make your own assumptions, but personally I 
 feel that this should of had a much better outcome and presentation than it did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pingp00p
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  This game feels very rushed, as if the developers were trying to get through it in as little time 
 possible. I heard about this game and was instantly thrilled and looking forward to its release! 
 Then I read the initial reviews and feared the worst. They turned out to be true... So I rented 
 it and put it in and started playing and right off noticed how rushed and thin it felt. With proper 
 time and development this could be a really great game. Concept wise it hits the bullseye, but 
 falls short in the end. To bad, a really awesome  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackCrow2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 2:23 am PT
Review:  Eidos/Rebellion bucks the third-person perspective and the traditional Vietnam war story in the 
 sequel (not really) to Shellshock: Nam '67. While I enjoyed the originals third-person approach, 
 it's never been my style when it comes to shooters, so when I found out we'd finally be getting 
 a Vietnam FPS on the 360, I was overjoyed. Was the game worth waiting for? In a word, yes. 
  
  Eidos decides that, in a time where blockbuster games like 50 Cent: BOTS, Halo Wars and F. E. A. R 
 2 are hitting the shelves, the best way to sell is to go for a budget approach, similar to what 
 we've seen from the quietly-released Secret Service. While affordability is all fine and dandy, 
 you really do get what you pay for.
  
  Onto the campaign. It's an absolute blast. You start out in the basement of a bar, which has been 
 used as a testing area for 'Whiteknight', an experimental drug presumably doled out by the government 
 or military. You are Walker, and your brother, Cal, is among the infected. As you fight your way 
 through Vietnamese soldiers, the story begins to unravel, as Walker is disturbed by visions of 
 an enraged Cal attacking other American soldiers. Soon, it becomes clear that Whiteknight has gone 
 very wrong. American and Vietnamese infected slowly outnumber foes with guns, becoming a full-on 
 zombie shooter. Rebellion did a terrific job upping the fright in this game, giving you a full-on 
 sense of panic when hordes of zombies are limping their way towards you. The campaign should take 
 you 6-8 hours to finish.. On hard. Problem? For a budget shooter without multiplayer, yes. The 
 game is simply too short to warrant a purchase, seeing as you can breeze through all three difficulties 
 in less than 24 hours, making it perfect rental material.
  
  The sound in Shellshock is weak. A few rifles pack great sounds, but the AK47 shoots off with barely 
 a whimper. The voice work sounds phoned-in, nothing special. 
  
  Graphically, Shellshock fails to stand out. Although some levels in the Vietnamese jungle look 
 pretty, it fails to rise above the average.
  
  The gameplay is where Shellshock is a winner. Blasting zombies heads off with a single blow of 
 your magnum or shotgun in a basement, taking out soldier after soldier as they try to break into 
 a church, smashing peoples faces in with the butt of your rifle? It's great.
  
  In the end, Shellshock is just plain fun. It's not long enough, and it's not perfect. Do rent it, 
 though. You'll enjoy spinning through the campaign a couple times and collecting tons of achievement 
 points as you do so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skateFoot
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 1, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  What happened. I remember the first Shellshock and it was pretty fun. It wasnt the greatest game 
 out there but it was still fun. When i saw an ad for Shellshock 2 on this website, i got excited. 
 A Vietnam game for the 360? Sweet. Sadly, this isnt the thrid person gory shooter i once fell in 
 love with. I played this for maby 20 min before getting so bored that i found conversing with my 
 wall alot better. First of all, it is now first person (and they do a pretty bad job of it) and second 
 of all, i thought they tried way to hard for a story. I mean come on, a zombie solider in vietnam? 
 I didnt get much of what was happening in the beginning. I also thought the gameplay was pretty 
 bad. The little parts where your attacked and must press a series of buttons felt lame to me. The 
 weapons were kinda of weak and there wasnt much to choose from. To me, this game was like watered 
 down Gatorade, it looks like its a little refreshing but in the end, it fails to please you. I 
 may be being a little to hard though. I didnt even beat the game! There are a lot of great games 
 out there, Shellshock 2 just doesnt make anywhere near the cut. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViolentMarv
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay is satisfying, the controls and buttons are well mapped, so it wont take you too long 
 to figure out the movements. Aiming however is a different story, the crosshairs arent amazing, 
 and nore is the "zoom in mode," it will take you a few levels to figure out how to land headshots. 
 The game itself is quite enjoyable, the story line will draw you in, and most probably will push 
 you to keep progressing just so you can figure out wtf is going on. The grafix arent special, they 
 look like something off ps2 or gamecube. But there not poor enough to turn you away, honestly it 
 looks close to brothers in arms 2, but not quite as nice, or fun. The truth is this game is a rental, 
 it will keep you busy for a weekend, aside from compleating it and getting all the achivements 
 i dont think you will be replaying it much. If your looking for a shooter this can be a possiblity, 
 however i would recommend that you go in the direction of Gears of War 2 or (cod4 or cod5) or rainbowsix 
 vegas 2, or even halo 3, there are alot better games, with nicer gfx, that offer more replay value, 
 and alot stronger multiplay.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drama_313
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Let's start off by saying i rented this and returned it exactly 40 minutes later. It's that bad, 
 it may get my vote for worst game on the 360. The graphics are Playstation 1 caliber, the controls 
 and visuals are just horrible, when you sprint your guy doesnt move but the screen moves up and 
 down and shakes violently, the guns sound like nerf guns kids play with. I've never seen a game 
 with frame rate issues like this one.
  
  Instead of being able to melee your enemy you're stuck doing stupid button combo's like street 
 fighter to see if you can pull it off. B, Y, X, X, A etc. come on!!!
  
  Unless you adjust the brightness on your TV all the way up, good luck seeing anything, the game 
 is way to dark and confusing.
  
  Hit detection is terrible, i had an enemy lined up in my sights and unloaded half a clip into and 
 it just left marks in the wall behind him and he kept firing.
  
  This game should not be on the market. The only time the frame rate is smooth is if you aren't 
 doing anything. If you start moving or shooting it begins to skip and stutter and makes it totally 
 unplayable.
  
  This game makes the most average, ugly shooter look like COD4. Playing this game is like going back 
 into time 10 years and playing a bad game back then.
  
  Enemies respawn at random sometimes you're walking and BOOM!! magically one is standing in front 
 of you.
  
  Every gun sounds the same, from the pistol to embedded machine guns... seriously.
  
  2/10 and 
 it's only getting a 2 because it has a nice idea and great concept but fails miserably on all fronts.
 
  
  STAY AWAY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the first Shellshock was a good game. It had a great vibe to it and was a geniune and fun 
 war shooter. When i heard there was a sequel i was pleased to hear it. But then i saw they turned 
 it into a vietnam horror FPS which suprised me and sort of alarmed me. None the less the trailer 
 looked promising.
  Now that i've played it and im on the last level now i can give a feedback. Well sort of, the reason 
 its sort of is because there are so many good things and so many bad things about it. The good 
 things are that the graphics can look great! it can be quite scary at times. They also got the 
 tone great the intro has such an apocolypse now feel to it. And its brutally gory as hell. The 
 down sides? well after 4 levels you've pretty much seen all the brutal gore animation, there arent 
 alot of weapons to choose from, its very very dark most of the time. And while its scary its only 
 because there flying at you when you cant see anything!.
  There is also an annoying fact that even thought your in a war you seem to be on your own an awful 
 lot. Then again even if you weren't alone the A. I wont save you as it can be awful. While this 
 review seems like im destroying the game, the truth is you have to play it to relise that while 
 all this is correct. It doesnt stop it from being fun.
  
  Graphics: There great when you can actually see them. There not Gears of War standard. But there 
 hold there own.
  
  Sound: Mixed bag really. Can be dodgy at times but it has some good moments too. Some pretty good 
 infected FX too.
  
  Gameplay: Samey but fun at the same time. The odd button bash bits help break it up a little too.
 
  
  **** Box: Poor A. I, Too dark!, Not enough weapons, very linear, too short.
  
  Overall: Its defo worth a rent if your a fan of the horror genre. I wouldn't say its worth the 
 40 bats but if you get it in an offer its worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grovestreet12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Shellshock 2: Bloodtrails is quite an enjoyable experience, and pretty creepy at times too, basically 
 put, you're a new recruit, that goes by the name of 'Nate' who has just been drafted into Vietnam, 
 you're mission... find you're brother 'Cal', find out the secrets behind 'Whiteknight' and kill 
 anyone who gets in you're way.
  
  Now onto the game itself, it is quite a 'fun' experience, if you want to put it that way, going 
 to different places in the Nam' from forests, to caves, the highlands, and temples. The sound is 
 good, like the sound of animals and creatures in the forest, and the heavy breathing of 'Nate' 
 when things go quiet, or if he just gets attacked, it really makes you feel his fear, and that 
 he just does not want to be there, but I guess for you're brother, you would do anything. Now, 
 the effects are great, for example the blood, during you're time in Vietnam, you will run into 
 Soldiers (And Infected) that will jump on you, triggering a scripted scene, were you need to press 
 buttons correctly, you then get to choose whether to beat him down, or just simply shoot him.
 
  Now the hitting the enemy with the butt of you're gun is really satisfying.
  
  If you want to know what happens (Not exactly a spoiler, but still) read this:
  You hit him with 
 you're gun, then you Repeatedly keep bashing him in the face, while blood continues to go all over 
 the camera and leaves his face all beaten up, with some nice blood effects on the floor.
  
  You will get some assistance from G. I's throughout the game too, they are not too bad at defending 
 themselves, at a distance, they can take down enemies quite well, but they seem to have problems 
 when they get up close and personal, they are useless at close quarters, pretty much. The enemy 
 AI is abit stupid (Mainly the human) as they just stand there, until they get shot, then they will 
 move to another piece of cover, but slowly, their aiming is unbelievable though, they always seem 
 to hit you, you could be stood in a hut, and they'll still manage to get you through that little 
 window that you didn't notice, but, you'll get over it.
  
  The Aiming is fine, although lining up that headshot at the start of the game MIGHT take alittle 
 longer than you would, as you progress more, the ironsights in the game are alittle bad, but they're 
 okay overall - the weapons in the game sound meaty and powerful. But there aren't many guns in 
 the game, there are 2 types of each gun (Pistol, Assault Rifle, Rifle, and then there is you're 
 grenades, and you can also get a flare, which scatters the infected)
  
  And don't listen to anyone who says this game is worse than 'Turning Point' or 'Hour of Victory' 
 that is just taking it too far, the way I see it, the game is enjoyable, and any gamer who actually 
 get games for the FUN, which games are all about in the first place, will find it good to play, 
 and enjoy this gore-filled game.
  
  Overall, the graphics are decent, the gameplay is good, aiming is just fine. There afew framerate 
 drops now and then, but it's nothing major. If you are unsure, just rent it.
  
  Here are the main good and bad points:
  
  + Creepy Atmosphere
  
  + Gore is great
  
 
  + Easy Achievements 
  
  + Guns sound meaty and powerful
  
  + Good storyline
  
  - Alittle on the short side
  
  - Afew Framerate drops
  
  - AI is alittle stupid sometimes, 
 but aiming is good, TOO good infact. (Team mates and Enemy)
  
  - Too Frustrating at times
  
  - Graphics are alittle dated, but you'll get used to it
  
 
  - No Multiplayer Component. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
