-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shrek the Third
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/action/shrek3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's got plenty of Shrek in it, if that's your thing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is simple, tedious.
 celebrity sound-a-likes are inconsistent.
 attempts at humor fall flat.
 fixed camera angle is maddening.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 18, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.2
Critic Score: 5.6, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 223 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: 7 Studios
Genre: Action
Date: May 15, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Shrek the Third is a lazy game that coasts by on the strength of the brand. 

  Released just prior to the theatrical debut of  Shrek the Third  to maximize its synergistic potential, 
 Shrek the Third for the PlayStation 2, Xbox 360, and Nintendo Wii is more compelling as a brand 
 marketing bullet point than it is as an actual video game. While there are certainly worse movie-license 
 games out there, Shrek the Third still feels slapdash and thoughtless, plus its function to entertain 
 is overwhelmed by its function to make money.  

          The puppet show story sequences are the most interesting part of Shrek the Third.     

 
  As is movie-license-game tradition, the story in Shrek the Third provides a broad pantomime of 
 the film on which it is based. More interesting than the actual story -- which sees Shrek tracking 
 down an heir to the throne of Far Far Away while Prince Charming makes a coup attempt -- is the puppet 
 show format of the story sequences. Aside from these sequences, as well as a musical number masquerading 
 as a boss battle, most attempts at humor in Shrek the Third fall flat. This is either because the 
 celebrity sound-alike voice cast can't nail it, the timing is stilted, or the material itself just 
 isn't funny.  

  The game is a by-the-numbers action adventure game, with a heavy focus on button-mashing combat, 
 plenty of item collection, some light platforming, and some even lighter puzzle-solving. With the 
 exception of the medieval-themed high school, most of the game takes place in conventional fairytale 
 locales, pitting you against pirates, witches, gargoyles, enchanted trees, and loads of generic 
 thugs. In addition to the big, green, ill-tempered ogre Shrek, you'll play as Donkey, Puss in Boots, 
 Arthur, Fiona, and Sleeping Beauty at different points in the game.  

  Felled enemies will drop fairy dust that will fill up your three-part special attack meter. Using 
 your character's special attack will drain one section of the meter. If you fill up all three sections 
 of the meter while playing as either Shrek or Fiona, you can trigger a special ogre power, which 
 slows down time and makes everything all  Matrix like. The game's already easy, and the ogre power 
 just makes it more so. There are other minor differences among the characters, with Puss in Boots' 
 ability to double-jump and Sleeping Beauty's ability to glide slowly to the ground from high falls 
 as the most apparent. However, these differences are mostly irrelevant because combat is such a 
 dominant force in the game and every character relies on the same mindless two-button attack combos. 

  In the Wii version of Shrek the Third, the two attack buttons are substituted with waggling the 
 Wii Remote and the Nunchuk. Saying that these controls lack subtlety might mean something if the 
 combat wasn't so blunt. The other gameplay elements in Shrek the Third might have provided some 
 respite from the monotonous combat, but they end up being no more interesting. The puzzles, which 
 only pop up from time to time, barely even qualify as puzzles; at their most complex, they require 
 basic pattern-recognition skills. Much more common, and coincidentally much more aggravating, are 
 the platforming sequences. These sequences are plagued by controls that are both touchy and inaccurate. 
 Fixed camera angles also make many jumps much harder to gauge than necessary, forcing you to make 
 completely blind jumps on more than one occasion.  

  The best thing about the single-player experience in Shrek the Third is a pair of castle-smashing 
 sequences where you use two different siege weapons to demolish a series of castle towers. It's 
 just too bad that these sequences only account for a few minutes of the four to five hours it'll 
 take you to get through the story. Luckily, there's a two-player variant of this sequence that 
 you can play outside of the story mode. Additionally, there's a set of five forgettable minigames 
 that can be played either solo or with another player, including a Midway-style shooting gallery, 
 a shuffleboard variant, a terrible platforming challenge, a frog-herding minigame, and a simple 
 shooter where you have to defend your beachhead against incoming pirate ships. Some of these, such 
 as the pirate shooter, are more engaging with the Wii controls, while others end up suffering for 
 it.  

          Twenty years ago, this game would have been a lunchbox.     

  Shrek the Third is no more ambitious in its presentation than it is with its gameplay. Of the PS2, 
 Xbox 360, and Wii versions of Shrek the Third, the 360 version is easily the best-looking, with 
 lots of soft-glow lighting, texture-mapping, and particle effects. The Wii version has some decent 
 lighting, though it lacks the texture-mapping or the texture detail. The PS2 version doesn't look 
 much worse, but the lack of any lighting effects just makes it look flat. Though they all have 
 that creepy dead-eye look, the main characters are good approximations of their cinematic counterparts. 
 All three versions suffer from a terrible fixed camera that will swing around in a nauseating fashion, 
 and the angle it presents often isn't anywhere close to ideal.  

  What's perhaps most depressing about Shrek the Third is that the actual quality of the game will 
 have little, if any, bearing on its success. The game seems to operate under the notion that its 
 audience simply isn't concerned with getting an experience that's interesting or inventive, and 
 sadly, it's probably right.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TX360
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Movie games are mostly a hit or miss mostly because the devs are far too lazy to really care and 
 then you get the odd one that makes it a fun and enjoyable game but shrek the third continues the 
 trend of the bad movie game.
  
  Single player
  
  Most people will probaly be renting this game for easy points well the game does not even give 
 you some points early on which surprised me so i played for 1 hour still nothing so now is the 
 game good enough to keep playing? Well the simple answer is NO this is one of the must dull repetitive 
 and boring games ive ever played and the 5.2/10 it got on GS is still too high when you take into 
 account how bad it really is. The real reason this game is bad is because the gameplay is just 
 terrible the graphics are horrendous and the attempts at humour fall flat everytime.
  
  pros
  its a shrek game YEH!
  
  cons
  Abysmal graphics
  terrible attempts at humour
 
  boring combat 
  annoying and uninteresting story
  
  Verdict
  Shrek the third is easily the worst movie game ive played for a while not only is it horrible to 
 see on any tv but the gameplay is extremely boring and the game as a result is a must avoid! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schreek
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 18, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  Shrek the Third is yet another movie based game that is destined to suck because movie games hardly 
 ever do well (disregard spiderman series) . You loosely follows the story line of the movie, but 
 not enough to give you more insight to what happened or ruin the plot for those who haven't seen 
 it yet. This game is just a simple beat-em-up with a few playable characters (Shrek, Fiona, Donkey, 
 Puss, and Sleeping Beauty) and even fewer attacks. The "humor" is terrible, and it just makes you 
 want to turn down the volume because it almost makes you choke on the stupidity. The sound effects 
 arent anything special. The graphics are really, really cartoony, but this should not come as a 
 surprise to anyone... the movie is cartoony also. Everyone has there own special attack. but shrek 
 and fiona have something called bullet time... i mean "ogre power" *wink wink*. There is a multiplayer 
 feature, but unfortunately it is not co-op levels, it is just a lame vs. mode which you can shoot 
 at castles, shoot at cardboard people, shoot some plated onto targets, or chase frogs. There are 
 no live features, but i suppose since the crowd is aimed toward little kids, there isnt as much 
 a need for it. If you are buying this for a 6-10 year old shrek fan, then i would say its a good 
 buy, however, if your over that age, i would strongly recommend you do not buy it, not even if 
 you have all the movies memorized cause your just that big of a fan. Im going to put my rank for 
 little kids score in the box, but my score for 10 and up would be 1, just dont buy this if your 
 not a little kid anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robot_Managy
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 9, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I didn't find this to be very appealing. In my opinion of this game, Shrek fell in a lake, becuase 
 this is a really bad game. It had some good features, but most of the other was bad. When I went 
 to Blockbuster to get this game. The lady at the counter said it was real fun but oh boy, did I 
 make a mistake that day. I took it home and played it. It was ok at first and then it got real 
 boring. I did fall asleep. I'm not kidding! That was how boring it was. Shrek 2 The Game was ok 
 but when I look at this, it makes me feel that other game is the best in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 360mad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game for kids, and extremely underrated. It was bought for my five year old 
 brother earlier this year and it is something which will really keep him happy. Controls are simple 
 and easy and the visuals look impressive. How can it be reviewed by a man though, such as reviewers 
 at gamespot. It isn't aimed at you. It is a kids game which is why it is easy, it isn't made to 
 challenge adults!
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joneshow
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Annoying! This game simply feels rushed! The character voices are laughable! The graphics on a 
 game that is released in 2007 should @ least look great with the 360's graphic engine! But if your 
 looking for an easy 1000 points in about 5-6 hours this is the way to go. Its ultra linear with 
 no exploration or interaction with the environment. The actual fighting is extremely redundant 
 with nothing more than a one - two punch &amp; spin with an occasional press of the 'Y' button 
 for a 'not - so - special' move. I forgot you can catch people after an uppercut too... if the 
 game will let you! Nothing eventful here! Use your free rental coupon on this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jammy_Dodger
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  As is the case with most cartoons released nowadays, there was inevitably going to be a video game 
 version of Shrek The Third. These are often seen as little more than an attempt by the movie studio 
 to wring a few more bucks out of their franchise with a hastily developed game which is low on 
 fun and high on profits.
  
  This game sadly fits that description more than I would like. The graphics are average at best, 
 as they are bland, not particularly bright and colourful and the animation is very poor in places. 
 Some of the characters barely even resemble their movie counterparts  pretty unforgiveable for 
 a game based on a cartoon. The sound isnt much better with some poor sound effects and voice acting 
 from sound-a-likes rather than the actors from the film. Listen for how many times Arthur says 
 lame. Drives you mad. As for the gameplay, you take control of one of the characters from the 
 film (Shrek, Puss In Boots, Donkey, etc.) and battle your way through various platform-themed levels 
 loosely based on the film. The controls are OK and fighting the various villains is extremely simple 
 as there are only two buttons for combat, plus jump. You can collect fairy dust to use limited 
 special moves, however. Coins are also collected to buy character upgrades from the gift shop.
 
  
  The gameplay unfortunately has its problems. There is a degree of trial and error to some sections, 
 where you die for no obvious reason but learn from it and gradually find your way through. Jumping 
 is also too fiddly as the camera is not always that well placed. Combat is quite repetitive due 
 to the limited moves but is at least quick and easy for younger players to pick up. Overall the 
 game isnt particularly hard but can be frustrating in those sections that require good timing 
 or well placed jumps.
  
  Shrek The Third is saved from complete disaster by the various quests you can complete as you progress. 
 These involve collecting items as you go (such as souvenir mugs) , completing simple tasks or finishing 
 a level without dying. This makes the game a bit more interesting and at least encourages you to 
 play it all the way through. And as this is the Xbox 360 version there are achievements to be had 
 as well, mostly related to collecting items and completing quests.
  
  As well as the main story mode of the game, there are also a small number of minigames which can 
 be played by one or two players. Some of these are decent fun, especially for kids, who may be 
 put off by the occasionally unfair trial-and-error gameplay of the main story. The minigames are 
 very simple but pass the time well when playing with someone else.
  
  Shrek The Third is a flawed and under-developed game, but younger players will probably enjoy it 
 and there is enough to do to make you want to play through to the end. It passes the time well 
 enough until the next big cartoon movie game comes along. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaSod
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  When the Shrek the Third demo became available on Xbox Live I downloaded it. I am always on the 
 lookout for games that my young daughter can play and after playing through this demo I could see 
 it was an easy game fit for a 4 year old. So then I rented it.
  The demo was of Chapter 1 and there were only very easy platforming elements in it. It seemed like 
 more emphasis was placed on smashing stuff and collecting coins and other hidden items. As the 
 game progressed, however, some more difficult platforming levels and some nasty bosses were introduced. 
 In Chapter 2 there was a platforming sequence featuring Puss in Boots where the camera would switch 
 directions in the middle of a jump so you had to switch as well or else miss this otherwise simple 
 jump. My daughter never made it past this spot. Unfortunately nasty camera problems were all too 
 common throughout this game and there are several jumps you have to do blind. If the platforming 
 were toned down and the camera fixed this would be a great title for a young child. As it stands, 
 it is too hard for a child and too easy (barring a few frustrating jumps) for an adult.
  Otherwise, this game is moderately enjoyable. The humor is lame (some jocks complaining about his 
 girlfriend being a 'princess' and Shrek yelling at Donkey to shut up) and the violence is PG (the 
 pirates attack you with oars) . You can play as several characters who have slightly different abilities. 
 There is a nice catapult the castle minigame. The plot is thin (as I assume is the same with the 
 movie) and Artie, the boy Shrek wants to make king as a replacement for himself, spends most of 
 the time whining.
  The Achievements are generous and won't take long. For those seeking a high gamerscore this is 
 the best reason to rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azumangaman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Since the beginning of the movie game genre, games based on the movie have very rarely been considered 
 enjoyable, a fall in somewhere between awful and mediocre. Since the original consoles, this view 
 certainly hasn't changed. Can Shrek the Third break the trend and prove to be a satisfying, worthwhile 
 video game?
  
  First of all, the storyline follows Shrek 3 quite closely, with the exception being only a few 
 levels that aren't really a part of the core storyline. The story is told in a way that is pretty 
 creative. The cut-scenes are told as paper-puppet shows that are quite frankly, very ugly. However, 
 while ugly, it adds a bit of freshness to Shrek the Third, which quite frankly, is needed.
  
  So while the presentation of the plot is rather impressive, is the game-play enjoyable? Shrek 
 the Thirds game-play system is very simple, and can either be addicting or incredibly tedious 
 depending on the player. In the game, you can play as Shrek, Donkey, Puss-n-Boots, Arthur, Fiona 
 and Sleeping Beauty respectively. Unfortunately, most of the characters play exactly the same, 
 but with different looking moves that all do the same thing. A special exception is (you may be 
 surprised) Sleeping Beauty, as her special attacks have different effects on the A. I., something 
 no other character has. Knocking around flows of baddies is surprisingly addicting. As for whom 
 your fighting is another story. The artificial intelligence in Shrek the Third is incredibly disappointing. 
 There are basically only two (yes, two) ways an enemy can attack. Theyll either come up to you 
 and attack (the preferred method) or the enemy will stand at a distance. This leads to you not 
 have to use any strategy in Shrek the Third; instead, you can just go up to each enemy and beat 
 them up.
  
  A major issue with Shrek the Third is the technical issues that are involved with the game. One 
 of the most noticeable issues is the camera. There is no way to operate the camera to adjust it 
 to your liking. This provides a lot of frustration, as the fixed camera is very poorly done. Youll 
 find that you won't be able to see your character on a rather frequent basis. Invisible walls also 
 plague Shrek the Third, for example when you use an attack that throws the enemy up in the air 
 and as you try to catch him, hell be stuck in the wall. Another aggravating problem is the character 
 slowdown. While you run, you'll see your character flowing smoothly and then all of a sudden while 
 they'll move at the same speed, their bodies move a lot slower. While not getting in the way of 
 the game, this is an almost constant problem. It just makes the game look incomplete, and looks 
 bad on the developers half.
  
  The sound effects in Shrek the Third are rather impressive. There are sound effects for most things 
 your character hits or throws and each sound unique. For example, if you hit an enemy in armor, 
 it sounds quite different than hitting a grass statue. A disappointing aspect of Shrek the Third 
 in the audio department is the voice-acting. The sound-a-likes are very poorly done, and youll 
 want to mute the game quite frequently. Shrek the Third also tries to make you laugh on a frequent 
 basis-but the writing is bland and uninspired. I was pleasantly surprised that the developers made 
 an original song for the game. Sadly, the song isnt very good. The graphics are a highlight of 
 Shrek the Third. While not great, the visuals are bright, lush and easy on the eyes. The environments 
 are quite good looking, while the character models are really ugly (especially Shrek-while Shrek 
 is supposed to come across as ugly, he isnt supposed to be this ugly) and look like they belong 
 is a game from the previous generation. Expect Shrek the Third to be over quickly. On normal difficulty, 
 the game can be completed within 3-4 hours. There are also unlockables like costumes, power ups 
 and more difficulty levels. The 360 version is the most superior due to achievements, making there 
 a reason to go back and play through the game again. If your idea of fun is to play through a pretty 
 easy game, with an addicting but tedious combat system and smashing basically everything in hope 
 of finding objects, then by all means, rent Shrek the Third or buy it on the cheap. This game will 
 not last you long enough to be a worthwhile retail purchase.
  
  Overall, while Shrek has an interesting presentation of the story, somewhat fun combat system and 
 an good graphics, the technical issues and lack of depth make Shrek the Third feel like its solely 
 intended to make money for the franchise, as opposed to making the game a genuinely fun experience. 
 Shrek the Third simply feels uninspired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregoryssharp
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I haven't seen the movie, so my judgement is more towards it's game quality, not movie accuaracy. 
 Three times through getting 890 achievement points with a fair amount of time. Voices are fun, 
 graphics are great. Pluses
  +Nice graphics, easy on the eyes
  +Good Voices and music
  +Great mini games, some of the best I've seen.
  +Challenging but not too hard
  
  Not so pluses
 
  -Camera a bit annoying sometimes, taking a moment to orient one's self.
  -Invisible walls are a bit too often, but I understand this to save people from getting stuck in 
 the graphics and steer people in the right direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikedDeath
Rating: 2.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Shrek the Third is pretty much a scavenger hunt You go and collect items on a list to get achievements. 
 The voice acting in this game is also terrible  but the worst part is the graphics. The graphics 
 look like late PS1 graphics and the animations are choppy and have slow-downs. The game is also 
 trying to be funny  but its not really written well. And then when you get enough coins you can 
 buy new difficulty levels  one is Charming which is way too easy and the other is Grimm which 
 is way too hard. On the Charming difficulty it takes one his to kill an enemy and you will probably 
 not die and complete the game within half an hour if you dont count the dialogue scenes which 
 most of them you cant skip. The Grimm difficulty level will probably give you problems. The 
 enemies are way too strong. The witches will kill you in three hits and the cyclopses will kill 
 you in two, while it takes about fifty-bazillion hits to kill any enemy.
  
  The game is also pretty much a generic platformer - jump, punch, done. I wish the game was like 
 Shrek 2 where it was like Gauntlet or Ultimate Alliance... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverBluff
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot was sort of right and sort of wrong, in my opinion. The right: it is a lazy game. The wrong: it 
 isn't exactly a mediocre game. I really expected more out of the graphics, considering the wonderful 
 graphics from the two previous Shrek games. The sound was even worse than the graphics, but the voice-overs 
 were quite well done. The gameplay is actually the highlight of Shrek the Third. The brawling, the 
 fast paced action and the collecting of many things will constantly have you on your feet. Overall, this 
 is probably the best of the three Shrek games. Although, still to be fair, it did lack some effort. I 
 can't say it was a bad game, though. Just a boring one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorebashd
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  First off I'd say I rent this one for my girlfriend and 2 children. Secondly I ended up playing 
 it the most. I wont say it was the greatest game i've ever played. Spiderman 3 was better in movie 
 to video game translation. Yes this game followed the movie pretty well. I found tho that the voice 
 acting lacked the enthusiasm and conviction of the movie. Sometimes i couldnt even tell if eddie 
 murphy was the voice of donkey.
  
  That asside, it was fun, a bit addictive and some of the fighting stuff was cool. I especially 
 liked sleeping beauty and her matrix like moves. Puss n Boots was also fun, but could be too fast 
 in his movements and sometimes when you were trying to do finishing moves that was nixed cuz he 
 had beaten the badguy before you could push it.
  
  graphix were decent, not movie quality but they were okay.
  
  Over all a fun family game that 
 you can sit down and play with you children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac81
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jun 6, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  I found Shrek the Thrird a very frustrating game to play. I would advise to rent this title if 
 you are looking at getting it rather than buy it.
  
  You travel through the story of Shrek 3 through 18 levels, using different characters throughout. 
 In each level there are many enemies to overcome and each level has specific quests to finish. 
 The quests can be to collect items, to finish without dying or to use a particluar fighting move.
 
  
  The positives for the game are that it is colourful, is well paced and the controls are easy to 
 use. The quests are resonable and can keep you interested. Some of the jokes are a little humourous, 
 but others are completely lame.
  
  Some of the drawbacks i found i will explain now. The graphics seemed worse than Shrek 2 even on 
 the Xbox 360. I keep getting stuck, hitting invisible walls and objects. The animation of characters 
 during a talking sequence was almost not there, there was more movement of them in gameplay. One 
 of the biggest problems was the incredible amount of time it took to load levels.
  
  Overall it seemed that the game was rushed to be completed on time and therefore playing it i was 
 left feeling very dissatisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikael_schiffer
Rating: 2.5
Date: May 21, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  Games based on movies, specially Animated ones, can never hit off. Shrek the Third cant be slated 
 as below expectations, after all, nothing was expected from it in the first place If u are reading 
 this, then i guess u really really wanna try this out, cuz no body gives a sh1t about crossover 
 games. Here my opinion in a nutshell
  The consolation is the Camera controls. Better then most 3rd persons
  
  The story on is too 
 linear, lots button mashing, and the models merge into each other.
  
  Cant say more, cuz i couldnt spend more than an hour on this stupid purchase. After all, its not 
 for me, its a gift for my toddler cousin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 20, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good: It can be funny at times, cutsenes are nicely done, combat is easy to use, there are 
 some easy achievements.
  
  The Bad: Poor voice acting, aweful graphics, gameplay is a mediocure, childish rip off of God of 
 War, it just isn't much fun.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Movie-based games have gotten a very bad reputation for being really bad. On rare occasions, there 
 is a good one that breaks this trend. 2007 has some titles that give gamers hope such as Transformers 
 and Pirates of the Caribbean: At Worlds End. Unfortunately, Activision has been 0 for 2 as far 
 as their movie based games go in 2007. Spider-Man 3 was a disappointment, and so is Shrek the Third. 
 The only difference is, Spider-Man 3 was playable, but had some glaring issues. Shrek the Third 
 is a completely uninspired game that is a blatent God of War rip off that just isn't fun.
  
  You play as a variety of characters including Shrek, Princess Feona, Sleeping Beauty and Puss 
 in Boots. The game follows the movie's story to some extent, but the story itself isn't one of 
 the game's problems.
  
  Let the monster rant begin...
  
  The gameplay for Shrek the Third is an almost identical rip off of God of War. You may not have 
 blades of chaos, but Shrek can preform some very similar, but obviously dumbed down finishing moves 
 and chests are opened the exact same way as in God of War. You collect orbs aka Ferry Dust that 
 fills your rage Ogre Power Meter just like you fill your Rage of the Gods meter. You rely a ton 
 on combos, but the bosses aren't very hard, so you don't need to do much to defeat them. The voice 
 acting, which is one of the biggest draws of the movie, is really bad in the game. The voice acting 
 here make's Tobey Maguire's sleepy preformance in Spider-Man 3 seem amazing. If Mike Meyers and 
 Eddy Murphy are in this game, they should be ashamed of their preformances. To top that off, the 
 character animation is dreadful. The graphics look at least as bad as a PS2 game, if not slightly 
 worse. The music is decent, and some of the combat can be fun for a little while, but overall, 
 there isn't much to be excited about here.
  
  The game's achievements are pretty easy and consist of you collecting things and just playing through 
 the game, but not even easy achievement points make this game worth playing. It's a pretty darn 
 bad game that should be avoided and is a classic example of how a movie based game should not be.
 
  
  Overall, this is a game that should be avoided at all costs. It doesn't even have a slightly amusing 
 multiplayer mode like Bomberman: Act Zero has, so it's a game that you should honestly just leave 
 to rot on a dusty bargin bin shelf.
  
  Gameplay: It's a blatent rip off of God of War that is repetitive and not very enjoyable.
  
 
  Graphics: It looks worse than a lot of PS2 games.
  
  Sound: Mike Meyers and the gang should be ashamed of their preformances, if they are in the game 
 at all.
  
  Value: If you must play this game, rent it at most. I wouldn't even recomend that.
  
  Final 
 Thoughts: This is one Ogre that should stay in his swamp... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
