-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/strategy/sidmeierscivilizationrevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Engrossing strategic depth.
 Many ways to claim victory.
 Fantastic visual presentation.
 Wealth of interesting historical knowledge.
 Meets high standard of the Civilization series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Multiplayer moves at a slow pace.
 Diplomacy is a bit limited.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.5, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,166 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date: Jul 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Civilization Revolution is an excellent, streamlined console version of the popular PC strategy 
 series. 

  Ever since its inception in the early 1990s, Sid Meier's critically acclaimed Civilization series 
 has challenged players to "build an empire to stand the test of time." Civilization Revolution 
 is the newest scion of the series, and like its predecessors, it's a turn-based strategy game in 
 which you take charge of a notable historical civilization and lead them from humble beginnings 
 to world domination. Faced with the great challenge of preserving the strategic breadth of the 
 series while streamlining the experience for consoles, developer Firaxis games has succeeded admirably. 
 The result is a distilled version of Civilization that will please series veterans and newcomers 
 alike.  

           As your city grows, you'll see new buildings and more advanced architecture.      

 
  Before the game begins, you must make an important choice: Which of the 16 civilizations will 
 you command? Each has a starting bonus and four era bonuses that you'll gain as you progress through 
 the ages, bonuses that will aid you in some way on your path to victory. There are four types of 
 victory in Civilization Revolution: cultural, economic, technology, and domination. Each has particular 
 victory conditions, and civilization-specific bonuses are a good way to start down the road toward 
 meeting those conditions. Those seeking a cultural victory will appreciate that the Egyptians start 
 with an ancient wonder, whereas military-minded players might choose the Germans and their veteran 
 warriors. Trying the different civilizations on for size is great fun, as you adapt your unique 
 strengths to grow your empire and deal with your opponents.  

  Once you've chosen your civilization, the game begins in earnest. As you set down your first city, 
 you'll see icons on the surrounding squares indicating how much food, production, or trade each 
 produces. Food grows your population, production builds units and buildings, and trade furthers 
 scientific research or fills your coffers with gold. Being aware of these resources is the key 
 to your civilization's prosperity. As your city grows larger and encompasses more squares, you'll 
 have the option of telling your workers to prioritize one resource over the others, or to work 
 certain squares instead of others. Unlike in previous Civilization games, individual squares cannot 
 be improved, and workers now exist only within the confines of the city menu screen. Despite the 
 worker's reduced role, the bulk of its strategic relevance has been preserved. Now certain buildings 
 and technologies will increase your resource yield, so the challenge lies in choosing what to research 
 and what to build to optimize your city's production. This interweaving of strategic considerations 
 is engrossing and spurs you to constantly refine the myriad facets of your grand plan.  

  With your first city up and running, you begin to go about the business of expanding your realm. 
 You build warriors to defend your city and explore the surrounding area. Barbarians will threaten 
 you early on, and destroying them will grant you gold, or perhaps a bonus unit. There are also 
 friendly villages that will offer similar bonuses, and sometimes even grant you a new technology. 
 Discovering impressive natural wonders, such as a great forest or a vast desert, will also garner 
 you a gold bonus and the gratifying right to stamp a name on it that will last throughout history. 
 There are also a few ancient artifacts, such as the Lost City of Atlantis, that grant substantial 
 boons to the civilization that discovers them. Although it's already a thrill to explore uncharted 
 lands, these bonus incentives add more urgency to your wanderings and encourage you to keep up 
 a brisk pace.  

  As you explore, create units, and settle new cities, you'll soon discover that you're not alone. 
 Leaders of other civilizations will contact you with offers of peace, but don't expect these truces 
 to last. Depending on your difficulty level, you may have a few leaders asking to trade techs, 
 or they all may try to bully you out of hearth and home. You can do some bullying of your own from 
 the diplomacy panel, as well as make peace, trade techs, or even pay a leader to wage war on another 
 civilization. However, long-term trade agreements are gone, and previously marketable resources 
 like wine, iron, and silk now merely provide resource bonuses to nearby cities. Degrees of peace, 
 like non-agression pacts and open borders, are also gone, the latter of which is particularly missed 
 during online games, when passing through an ally's territory will cause a declaration of war. 
 The controls for navigating diplomacy are easy, but it does feel a bit limited.  

           Some diplomatic overtures are less than diplomatic.      

  If you refuse another civilization's 
 demands for tribute, or want to pursue a domination victory, you'll declare war on your enemies 
 and march your legions off to battle. Every combat unit has a separate attack and defense rating, 
 and it's important to play to their strengths. For example, in the early going, archers are twice 
 as powerful on defense than offense, so leaving them to defend your cities while your more powerful 
 attackers advance to the front may be a good move. Positioning yourself advantageously is rewarding, 
 not only because of terrain bonuses, but also because of the satisfaction you get from winning 
 a carefully executed encounter. Cutting through your opponent's forces and taking their cities 
 is immensely gratifying, though large invasion forces can get cumbersome since you can no longer 
 combine diverse units into a manageable stack.     

  Actual combat is merely a matter of sending your unit onto an enemy unit's square and seeing how 
 things play out. Victorious units will gain experience and can earn special abilities, such as 
 improved city defense. Combat has been streamlined, too, and the number of units available throughout 
 the ages has been pared down. Ships can no longer bombard land squares, but positioning them on 
 the coast adjacent to your warring armies will give your land troops a boost in combat. Without 
 square improvements to destroy, siege warfare is limited to parking your forces on squares to prevent 
 a city from working them. Furthermore, even the smallest ship can transport a huge number of units, 
 so sending armies by sea is feasible in any age. Thankfully, these changes don't feel like omissions 
 because the strategies that the lost elements supported are still present and can make or break 
 your martial campaigns.  

           Lopsided, anachronistic battles will frequently happen in the modern era.      

  There's 
 a lot of information to take into account when playing Civilization Revolution, and fortunately 
 there are a number of built-in tools to help you. You have a cadre of advisors who pop up to consult 
 you in the city and tech screens, and they, like the leaders of other civilizations, are large, 
 animated characters who react to your decisions and push each other out of the way amusingly as 
 you switch your focus. They do make some repetitive noises and their gibberish speak can get annoying, 
 but they are quite helpful in the early going and once you're in the rhythm of the game, you'll 
 likely tune them out. Other audio effects and background music are more appropriate, and the dramatic 
 flourishes of victory or wonder creation are quite invigorating.  

  One of the highlights of the game is the robust civilopedia, which is accessible from almost any 
 screen with the press of a button. All of the pertinent game information is here, as well as a 
 wealth of multimedia knowledge for those curious to know the biographies of the great people who 
 appear in their cities, or to see a video clip of a galley at sea. It's a fantastic addition that 
 you'll find yourself consulting often as you refine your game strategy. Though it does take a few 
 seconds to load, it's well worth it to make sure that you choose the right wonder to build or tech 
 to research.  

  Tying it all together is the vivid, clean presentation and simple control scheme. You can scroll 
 around the map with either analog stick, though the right one is required to issue movement commands. 
 Cycling through units with the directional pad is a breeze. The left trigger zooms out, though 
 not as far as you might like, and the right trigger gives you a quick look at your tech, culture, 
 and treasury growth. City and diplomacy menus are a mere click away. This accessibility is complemented 
 by the vibrant unit designs and animations, as well as the eye-catching city representations. The 
 ocean looks lovely as waves lap at the shore and fish frolic in the clear water, and mountains, 
 forests, and rivers are equally beautiful. Scroll around a busy map and you'll experience some 
 choppiness, but not so much that it's detrimental to the gameplay.  

  Single-player games are rich and varied, but you can mix things up further by playing the included 
 scenarios or taking on the Game of the Week and seeing how you rank against other Civ players. 
 You can also test your skills head-to-head online. Each match has five civilizations but a max 
 of four human players. You can face off one-on-one, join up with a teammate against human or AI 
 players, or cut loose in a free-for-all. A headset lets you conspire with your fellow players, 
 but be careful to use the private chat feature lest you alert your enemies to your plan. Be sure 
 to block out a few hours for these matches, which can sometimes last quite a while. You can limit 
 the turn time to speed things up, but with four human players and one AI civilization, there's 
 a lot to do. Online matches do have a strange pace to them that's not quite a sequential flow, 
 and they move more slowly than solo games. Nevertheless, if you've got the patience, there's nothing 
 quite like matching wits with another human player.  

           The science advisor will offer helpful tips about your research options.      

  Played 
 against human or AI opponents, Civilization Revolution is an excellent game that will let you plumb 
 different strategic depths each time you play. It's incredibly easy to get engrossed in the rhythm 
 of expansion and evolution, and you can happily lose hours and hours at a time. Sid Meier and Firaxis 
 Games have done a fantastic job of streamlining many of the key game mechanics, and they've cut 
 out some of the micromanagement without gutting the strategic options. If you enjoyed Civilization 
 on the PC and are worried that this version might feel stripped down, fear not. Although it does 
 seem simpler at first, you'll soon realize that it's the same signature gameplay you know and love. 
 If you haven't played a Civilization game before, you should get your hands on this worthy new 
 entry in the Civilization canon.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (131 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TalonKarde32
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 6, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I do like the slighly easier worker management system. I kinda like the globe-like feel of the 
 map. It looks nice too. That's about it.
  
  My biggest dislike of this game is simply this: you've barely built a grainery researched a few 
 techs and fought a few battles and suddenly you're out of ancient times and in the medeval ages. 
 No time to build your cities or your armies or build ancient wonders, it's rediculess how quick 
 the stages go by. So just slow down the game's passage of time in the game's options? Well you 
 can't. Simple as that.
  
  This game was dumbed way way way down in scope and breadth, with no options to tweak, and there's 
 no excuse for it. The XBox 360 has at least the power of a typical laptop and laptops can play 
 all the Civ games out there. This game is simpler and more dumbed down than Civilzation I which 
 is over a decade old. There's no excuse for not putting the full Civ experience into this game 
 for those that want it.
  
  It's a rip off for $60, a rip off for more than $10 in my opinion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uhheh
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2009 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I personally thought Civ 4 was a much better game in all respects. I enjoyed the many different 
 technologies, the big maps, and the fun city managing. Though Revolution was fun at the beginning, 
 I found it too short to keep me occupied for long. I always enjoyed going online and downloading 
 new civilizations to add to Civ 4's already strong arsenal of Civilizations, so not being able 
 to download new civilizations was very disappointing. Not being able to upgrade units was also 
 a pain, for I was stuck with upgraded units that could have done much more on the field with the 
 promotions they had. Despite the faults, I liked how they made combat odds more sensible, and made 
 it easier to manage the cities. If you already own Civ 4 you should probably not buy this. Overall 
 it was ok, but I think that they could have done better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalojay845
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  I have never played a game demo & immediately said "I'm deffinately going to buy this game". Now 
 I was never too big with RTS games in the first place but Halo Wars & C&C3 were all i needed to 
 try this one out. Now where do I start? The visuals are stunning. Even though the battles are somtimes 
 unfair (i. e. I had an attack of 7 they had a defense of 4 & i lost the battle) otherwise its great. The 
 way you can stack units to make armies & after winning a certain amount of battles they gain upgrades. Being 
 able to send a spy into another city (EVEN IF YOU HAVE A TREATY WITH THEM!) to steal gold, kidnap 
 a great person (etc...) . This game is packed with some of the greatest leaders of all time. I also 
 love how the game's time moves along as you  are B. C.-A. D) . You 
 can establish new cities and build wonders, research new technology, build barracks, libraries, and 
 the list just goes on. In my opinion this game is worth buying. If you aren't into strategy games 
 try the demo or rent it first, but you won't regret buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 14, 2009 11:58 pm PT
Review:  "Civilization Revolution" is a well-crafted turn-based strategy game that brings out the best the 
 genre has to offer, without being handicapped by the limitations of console controls.
  
  Players build their own civilizations from ancestral beginnings up through the modern age. There 
 are four possible ways to win: researching the most advanced technologies, gathering the most wealth, 
 cultivating the most culture, or conquering the most foreign capitals. The branching paths to victory 
 provide a level of depth and variety to the gameplay that feels like a breath of fresh air compared 
 to the generic strategy game that focuses exclusively on military domination. 
  
  The controls in "Civilization Revolution" work remarkably well for a console-based strategy title. 
 The result is a game that's easy to pick up for beginners, but also packs plenty of challenge for 
 experienced players in the highest difficulty settings. Top it all off with a cartoony but endearing 
 art style, and you've got arguably the best strategy game for consoles this generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Civilization is one of the longest running strategy titles around, and this game takes a surprising 
 turn for the series. Each new version got more and more complex, but this one took a step way back. 
 I would even go as far as to say that it is more simplified than the original game. This isn't 
 necessarily bad, but many long time fans may be a little disappointed.
  
  The premise of the game is to become the greatest civilization in the world, plain and simple. 
 There are many ways to accomplish this. A domination victory is earned by taking over everyone's 
 capital city. An economic victory comes from saving up 200,000 gold. A cultural victory is when 
 you attract 20 of any of the following: great people settled in your cities, wonders of the world, 
 or converted cities. A scientific victory results from building a space station and launching it 
 to Alpha Centauri. Since your strategies are vastly different depending on which of these victories 
 you are going for and each of the sixteen civilizations have unique advantages, the game is almost 
 infinitely replayable. This is increased further by five different difficulty levels. Even if the 
 main game gets old to you, there are a large number of historical scenarios that can be played.
 
  
  The game starts from basically the beginning of recorded time. You start with one settler and nine 
 squares on the map revealed. The settler allows you to found your first city and the game can go 
 any direction from there. You can build a large army to try and quickly hunt down the other civilizations. 
 This will leave your city's development behind since all your resources are going to the army. 
 Another option would be to build up you city in order to allow it to grow and bring in more resources. 
 This will, of course, leave you open to and other civilizations that decided to attempt the first 
 option. Then there is always the choice to build a wonder of the world, which will give you excellent 
 bonuses but often take a long time to build. In addition to allocating your cities resources, you 
 must also balance between scientific discovery and economic prosperity. Focus too much on one, 
 and the other will fall behind and make victory more difficult. During all of this, you must also 
 find time to explore the world, settle more cities, and fend off attacks from barbarians or hostile 
 opponents. Battles are a numbers game. Each unit has a number for attack and another for defense. 
 These number can be increased (and in a few cases, decreased) by several things: terrain of the 
 land, experience of the unit, presence of support units, an so on. Since it is only a number that 
 decides the outcome, it is possible for a well seasoned army of archers to kill a tank, which is 
 funny to see but the system makes sense and works well. The number isn't just a set-in-stone attack 
 rating, but more of a chance of victory. This means a weaker army always has a chance to win, but 
 the chance goes down the bigger the difference between the two units is. The game is turn based, 
 so you will have plenty of time to sit and think about the best course of action. Each game will 
 take anywhere from three to five hours to complete, more if you spend a lot of time planning your 
 turns. This is definitely a thinking game, so action junkies will quickly get bored.
  
  Although it is a very deep game, there are many corners that were cut and options left out that 
 were in past games. The world is incredibly small in comparison and the size is always the same. 
 There are always four other randomly chosen civilizations for you to go up against, unlike in previous 
 games where you could choose from three to seven. Some other long running features are not really 
 present. Keeping you people happy basically happens on its own and even when they aren't, it really 
 doesn't affect much. Many of the statistics that could be tracked before, can't be in this game. 
 You used to be able to use spies to learn how big other civilizations armies are or what building 
 and technology they are working on. Now, spies are merely for stealing minor things from enemy 
 cities. Long term peace treaties are non-existent. The computer players will occasionally approach 
 you and say they will leave you alone for five turns or so if you give them something they want. 
 To make matters worse, there is no way you can place the same demands on them. There are a bunch 
 of other minor exclusions that were in past games that would have been nice. If an enemy builds 
 a city right next to one of yours and you take it over, you can't get rid of it and both must share 
 the same land squares. This hurts both cities and prevents them from growing as much as they need 
 to. Also, old units cannot be disbanded. This isn't a big deal since you don't need to use resources 
 to support them like in past games, but it is just a bit dumb to see your first ancient warrior 
 unit you ever made protecting a city along side a tank. Nuclear weapons aren't as present in the 
 modern era of this game either. If you build the Manhattan Project wonder, you recieve one missle 
 and no more can be built. You get one; that's it. I may not like a lot of these design choices, 
 but I do understand that they were made to make the game a bit easier to learn and reach a broader 
 audience.
  
  Another major gripe I have with the game is that the computer controlled civilizations seem way 
 too war-like. In one game session, I was giving everything I possibly could to the Russians just 
 so they wouldn't attack me. After a few hundred years of them completely using me, they randomly 
 decided to tell me that they had to 'crush my puny civilization.' Hell, even Ghandi declared war 
 on me when I told him that I didn't want to give him one of my technologies that he demanded without 
 giving me anything in return. The other players can win with any of the four victory conditions 
 as well, but every single one wants to destroy you. I also have yet to see any two computer players 
 fighting each other. I'm sure they do, but they always seem to want to fight me first.
  
  The graphics aren't stellar, but they look nice. They are a bit too cartoony for my tastes, though. 
 The 3D characters for the advisers and opponent's leaders look great and are entertaining to watch. 
 It would have been nice to have the option to view a 3D model of your cities with all of the buildings. 
 The first few do appear clearly within the city, but after that it just turns into a jumbled mess 
 of structure and you can't really see specific things.
  
  This game is best described as Civilization Lite. It's the same game we know and love, just not 
 as much of it. This is a great intro for newcomers to the series that would like an awesome strategy 
 game that is more than just building a bigger army than the other guy (although that can be one 
 possible strategy if you like) . Longtime fans will probably look at this as simply a fun diversion 
 rather than the next iteration in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neomana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 2:39 am PT
Review:  This game has one of the oldest and well played blood lines going, Civilization has long been a 
 game all strategic game players, like myself, have spent hours playing and trying to perfect the 
 art/balance of military, science and culture. This game however has definitely not pushed forward 
 with the depth and abilities of the game, it has some what been "dumbed down" for the console. 
 Perhaps suggesting mainly cave men play with consoles, but also showing that even the dumber portion 
 of our worlds populations money is worth trying to get hold of.
  But looking past this slight insult that some may view it as, the game simplified really does work. 
 The gameplay is smooth and graphics entertain (perhaps to entertain the feeble minded with some 
 pretty colours whilst there confused?) . But with enough gameplay left in to let the core duo brain 
 cell of the target audience build up and conquer over the less mentally able.
  I do have ever jest, it is dumbed down but for very good reason, it is the few buttons and abilities 
 of the machines that bring this game back to its core. What is left is really very entertaining, 
 especially with friends on xbox live.
  Only down side is there is really very little in the way of a campaign, a story line would have 
 made me sit for days to complete this game but without it I played in scattered sessions, often 
 using it as a whined down after a more fast and furious game.
  To wrap up, this game is well worth buying if you enjoy strategic gameplay. And if you really want 
 to have some fun, get your mates to pick up a copy too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop36
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  I never was much of a fan of turn based strategy games but this is the exception for me. Below 
 are the pros and cons:
  
  PROS:
  --cartoony but colorfull graphics
  --good animations
  --feels great finding secrets and villages
  --some hard fought battles for 
 cities
  --many ways to win the game
  --good variety of troops and structures
  --very addictive and long matches
  --turn based gives you time to think
  
  CONS:
  --multiplayer 
 is iffy, I wished they had the microphone feature turned off for impatient players
  --after you get rifleman and knights the game gets too easy
  --it gets old when the entire world 
 decides to attack you at once and not each other
  --after you start to get more technology it gets kindof boring
  
  
  Overall this game is 
 good fun for anyone willing to spend the time to figure it out. Even though it has its flaws it 
 doesnt take away much from this game. Its a great way to burn off some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sol_Invictus-80
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  This game has a mixture of good and bad sides, which overall make it a good product, but not exhalting 
 at all to me, unlike to most people out there.
  
  Graphics: reviews say "excellent", "stunning", "amazing". I'm wondering wether we are playing the 
 same game. Sure, they are amazing if you are a 10 years old child, because that's exactly the style 
 of the graphics: it's like playing with cartoons. You can like it or not (personally I don't) , 
 but calling that "stunning" it's _really_ a bit too much. 
  
  Sound: average, not bad, not good. In a similar way to the graphics, I find that TheSims-style 
 language quite horrible, but I suppose that's tastes. Nothing stunning here, anyway.
  
  Gameplay: interesting, challenging, deep but not too brain-devouring, and this is all very very 
 good. But the lack of a real single player is so so BAD. Skirmish makes the game repetitive and 
 boring after a while. Why not include a campaing? After a few games, you start to grow weary, all 
 races are quite the same (come on, realize it: their differences are not *so* deep to make the 
 game change completely every time) , and the 4 ways to win become a bit mechanical. The lack of 
 a *real* single player is an objective reality and an obvious deficiency, and any serious and impartial 
 review cannot rate "perfect" a product missing such a part, unless it's an online-only game - and 
 this is not the case.
  
  "Historical knowledge": now this is not very important, but reading on the Gamespot review that 
 the game has "wealth of interesting historical knowledge" was simply ridiculous. Even the above 
 10 years old child knows that Thomas A. Edison was NOT working for the ancient Greeks. The game 
 is, of course, completely abstract and arbitrary in this kind of historical "knowledge", and again 
 I wonder what game in hell was the reviewer playing, because it couldn't be the same of mine. Or, 
 he forgot really quite a lot of things from basic school. Or, he just had no idea of what to write 
 in the "pros", and had this unfortunate idea.
  
  All in all, the game is good but all these 9s and 10s are exaggerated. I guess being part of the 
 "Civilization" serie is enough for many people to rate a game above its leaks. Disturbing. 
  The lack of "charisma" is related to the completely abstract historical accuracy the unispired 
 (well, un-present, in fact) single player. Try this nice above-average game, but do no expect the 
 flawless masterpiece you could read around here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiiperDrive
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to any console system, a well-balanced and rewarding strategy game has been hard 
 to come by. Although Lord of the Rings and Command and Conquer have both been relatively good in 
 retrospect, once more it's the genius of Sid Meier that comes to our aid with a blockbuster title. 
 The brains behind the legendary PC turn-based series Civilization, Meier believed Civilization 
 Revolution to be the game he's 'always wanted to make', and from what I've played - it's the game 
 that I have always wanted to own.
  And Revolution's undeniable charm seems to hit you straight in the face as soon as you begin your 
 first skirmish. The lakes, the plains, the mountains and the hills all emanate a welcoming sense 
 of enjoyment and simplicity, especially to veterans of the series. And immediately with this sense 
 of welcome, you can then enjoy the true beauty of 2K's title. Because visually, it is a piece of 
 art - with the game map as the canvas, the only problem with surfing the map quickly being that 
 the frame rate may drop below par, although it is hardly noticeable and does not effect gameplay 
 by any means. But with your progression through the ages, you can continue further and further 
 to discover all the different environments that you encounter throughout, acting as an incentive 
 to keep you coming back again and again to relive the environments that have been perfectly conveyed.
 
  Civilization Revolution's integral gameplay feature on the whole does not drop in standard, either. 
 Starting with your base, usually the capital city, you build outwards and expand to achieve victory 
 - with you being able to do so in four ways. These being domination, culture, economic and technology. 
 And with this come the perks of the sixteen unique playable civilizations, this adding a cultured 
 use of tactics when choosing your civ. These perks include some such as bonuses to gold production, 
 immediate upgrades to units and also starting a skirmish with a great person. So choose carefully. 
 But your path to victory begins right at the first turn. You'll with have to allocate your workers 
 in your cities accordingly with your long-term strategy. As tiles (square areas of land that constitute 
 the entire map) , surround your cities and all have different resources and resource rates which 
 vary. The base resources being food, production and trade (science or gold depending on choice, 
 sometimes they are predetermined) . If you are to crush your enemies with military might, then either 
 gold to rush military units (complete them before they are predicted to by sacrificing gold) or 
 production to build these as quickly as possible may seem appropriate. This all adds to a successful 
 use of tactics and strategy that previous attempts on the console have failed to do, and this will 
 give you an accomplished sense of skill when choosing so. And with this combined with the beautiful 
 visuals, it does feel like a well-polished game indeed. Accompanied also by the extensive Civilopedia, 
 the encyclopedia of Civ knowledge, you've almost got the full package. The only negative being 
 the lack of variety in gameplay, in terms of choice. You have little control over enemies faced 
 and environments encountered which may feel one-dimensional on the whole. This also adds with a 
 seeming lack of diplomacy that previous Civilization games had, but although this is so little 
 has been changed in terms of depth, which will suit veterans of the series. The same can be said 
 for the multiplayer aspect of the game, although you do get the added incentive of pitting your 
 wits against another human opponent. But be warned, these online skirmishes can last an age so 
 be prepared - and patient for the other players to take their turn.
  Along with this Revolution also has a welcoming and joyful soundtrack that fits in brilliantly 
 with the mood. The vibrance and energy that is emanated adds to the excitement and euphoria of 
 playing the game, and also the fact that this can suddenly change to suit the battles that take 
 place throughout your conquests and skirmishes fits accordingly. But this is accompanied with the 
 helpful advisers that you have enabled, these of which are great for newcomers, but easily become 
 tedious with their repetitive voice overs that become all too annoying the more you play the game. 
 But that really shouldn't be considered a huge setback to an otherwise marvellous title. Because 
 Sid Meier really has done it again - and you'll be kicking yourself if you don't get your hands 
 on this title anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agent93
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of strategy games of all kinds and The Civilization name has been on my 
 computer for years is some form. I was glad to see it come to consoles.
  
  The graphics are cartoonish, but done nicely and the colors are vibrant. The overall look of the 
 game is nice. There are some glitches in the game that can change the outcome of a game i. e. there 
 seems to be an occasional lag here and there. 
  
  When it is during a combat sequence it is annoying but when you are cycling through units it can 
 cause you to pass over a unit you needed to do access that turn. It wouldn't be so bad but occasionally 
 the game will not let you go back and select that unit and you will have to wait until next turn 
 and in some cases that could change the outcome of a game.
  
  I have heard of other glitches through forums but I have not experienced them. Game play will be 
 familiar to anyone who has played any of the other Civ games. There are some twists that a seasoned 
 Civ player may or may not like depending on your game style.
  
  Resources aren't tied to units they simply increase production/science/culture or a combo of all 
 of those. This takes some of the strategy out of the game because now it is just a battle for the 
 sake of fighting (domination) or to slow another down in science or culture.
  
  Citizens don't need to be managed other than to move them around to produce food, production, gold 
 or science. So there are no war weary citizens that will revolt on you.
  
  Governments don't do much other than to have paticular bonuses, and everything can be rushed for 
 money even wonders.
  
  The A. I. is just as dumb at low levels as in other Civ games and they become increasingly aggressive 
 at higher levels. The Civ tradition of the A. I. cheating is continued (unfortunatly) but if that 
 is the only way they can make it harder. . . 
  
  There isn't much you can do in the way of diplomacy it is mostly them demanding things from you 
 (you cannot demand anything of them) . You can buy them off to attack, trade science, or peace.
 
  
  It is still a very fun game to play and it can be scaled to fit anyone's level of game play. They 
 made it work on a console without losing to much in the transfer.
  
  There aren't many strategy games for the xbox and this one will be played for a while to come. 
 I have gone back to it a number of times already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AetherOblivion
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Being an original Civilization fan, no new version of Sid Meier's masterpiece will ever replace 
 the first four's places in my gaming heart. But the quality of this game is great, and easily visible. 
 
  
  Every aspect of civilization is simplified to the perfect level. Which makes it a great new addition 
 to every console gamers collection.
  
  I have found the same "just one more turn" feeling that was introduced in the original Civilization, 
 is also found in Civilization Revolution. It's a great, ambitious new way to play off a game system. 
 
  
  You will find yourself playing Civilization Revolution for hours on end without even realizing 
 it. You'll have a great time playing by magnifying your own specialties, and playing your way. 
 
  
  Overall, it's a great addition to anyones closet. Although it may seem simple for Civilization 
 veterans, everyone can find a way to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelinnes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  While Civilization Revolution offers good game play and an easy to use interface, unfortunately 
 much of the depth and intricacy offered in previous PC versions is lost in the switch.
  
  Revolution will let you hit the floor running, and for Civ veterans you'll find no difficulty in 
 picking up right where you left off with your PC games. The game play if fast and fun, and those 
 familiar with the game may find that matches against the AI can be over in less than an hour. On-line 
 matches offer greater length games, and work well on XBOX Live. 
  
  Overall not a bad pickup, but not a replacement for the full PC versions in the Civilization series. 
 Those new to the Civ experience should like it if they are interested in this type of strategy 
 game, and for more experienced players it offers a good diversion for a short time. Definitely 
 worth the cost of the game, although at least this gamer will be waiting anxiously for the next 
 PC offering. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morkahn
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution could be a really great game. The problem is its lack of a campaign and 
 the similar units in each faction.
  
  I understand that it is supposed to have really great online but I didn't want to even try it due 
 the fact that the units are so similar in each faction, with only a few differences. If each faction 
 had more different units then it would really make it better.
  
  The fact that it has no campaign makes it quickly boring. With only a choice of four different 
 objectives to get in each match and no story, you don't really get a feel of its gameplay due to 
 the fact that you've already fallen asleep.
  
  There are some good things about this game though. The graphics are pretty amazing and the different 
 "ages" in time make it quite fun trying to beat the rival factions. Another good thing is the advisors. 
 They give a lot of good advice and are quite funny in the process, though they do get on your nerves 
 after a while.
  
  I would personally say that if you want to get this game then borrow it of a friend first and see 
 if you like it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: krovak0000
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  Well, Civ: Rev, first when I got it I just wasn't feeling the long gameplay style, however, a few 
 games in and especially once you hop online, this game is actually very fun and time consuming. 
 You basically pick a race, each one having their own strength or bonus, you then take turn based 
 rounds to build/research/move units/battle. You can take turns to move everything you have at a 
 time to, example: you have about a 1 minute times to move warriors/archers/boats/ect you can also 
 set units to defend your main base.
  The reason for defense is that's how you beat other people in the game, you overall have to dominate 
 their base, win by research or win by money.
  
  A bit odd to get used to at first and get all the ins and outs of the game, but once used to it 
 so fun to play, especially with a friend where some games can take upwards into a couple hours 
 just to win.
  
  Very great game worth checking out if your into strategy or RTS games, it would be very fun to 
 you!
  
  Only downside is the community is SLIGHTLY lacking so some days games take a bit to get going 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hickamie14
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier's Civilization: Revolution is the first Civilization game to be available on consoles, 
 but how would it transfer over from the PC?
  
  In CiV: Revolution you take on the role of a civilization and your task is to lead your people 
 to victory by either conquering the world through war; building the United Nations wonder through 
 culture; building the World Bank wonder through gold; or building a space ship and launching a 
 mission to Alpha Centauri through a scientific victory. Along your way to victory you'll be able 
 to build cities, explore the world (which changes every time you play) , research technologies, 
 and participate in negotiations with the leaders of other civilizations. The amount of options 
 is very high and you'll find yourself completely immersed in your civilization as you unwillingly 
 get your life sucked away. Luckily it only takes 2-6 hours to complete a civilization so you won't 
 miss your child's wedding because you're at war with the Aztec empire. The amount of options is 
 incredible, from building a temple in your capital city to researching the most modern technologies 
 before your opponents do in order to have the edge in combat. Revolution executes almost everything 
 very well; however, if you're a veteran of the series you'll find it is a little less complex than 
 previous games in the series. 
  
  The controls are probably some of your biggest worries, but you can put those worries to rest because 
 the controls are very good and unrestricting. However, because Revolution is a turn based strategy 
 there are a few combat issues that spoil the realism of conquering other civilizations, but this 
 is a minor complaint. The save system is also quite good and, although sometimes annoying, your 
 advisors help to bring you into the world you're creating. 
  
  The graphics in Revolution are very beautiful, the art is masterfully done and everything looks 
 good with little to no technical problems. The sound design isn't anything special, but it serves 
 the game well enough. 
  With a six difficulty levels, four different ways to win, multiple civilizations to choose from, 
 and well executed controls, Revolution has fairly high replay value and is a game you'll definitely 
 enjoy.
  
  THE GOOD: Good controls | Great amount of options while playing | Once you start a civilization 
 you won't want to stop | Beautiful art design.
  
  THE BAD: Simpler than previous games in the series | Multi-player is pointless.
  
  ~~~~Single-Player*: 
 9.2~~~~~~Game-play: 8.6~~~~~~~Lasting appeal: 8.0~
  
  Overall: 8.7
  Civilization: Revolution is the best strategy game on the Xbox 360. 
  
  *Because the game literally 
 has no story I decided to rate the single-player as a whole instead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPhT_007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Civ Revolution I was a little concerned about it. Some games are not good on 
 the console and I thought this would be one of them. Well, I was more than pleasantly surprised. 
 I fist tried it on the easiest difficulty level and it was a piece of cake but good for beginners. 
 The game is very well made and a lot of thought was put into the details and it looks very good. 
 Everything in the game serves a purpose and it makes sense and the higher difficulty levels pose 
 a good challenge and if you do something stupid the A. I. will most likely call you out on it and 
 make you pay. My only problem is that sometimes you start to close to someone else and at higher 
 difficulty levels that makes it unfair as they will attack you right away especially the Romans, 
 Aztecs, and Egyptians! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codeman5533
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  first of all dont buy this game if you sont like real time simulation games or if you like taking 
 ores because in this game you will be giving orders creating cities dominating others w. e it takes 
 to win well in this game u start off as a early civilization and u have to settle in and create 
 a town from there you choose what to do from learing to write to building up ur army u choose how 
 time defies your civilization and dont forget there are also other civilizations with difrerent 
 leaders going through this as well and you can win 4 ways 1 by destroying everyone else 2 getting 
 the most money 3 achieving high cultural advantages or 4 reaching space well its a great game not 
 to hard and not a breeze so pick it up have played any other versions of this game or just if you 
 wanna try something new 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDanSandwich
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I have always heard a lot about Sid Meier's Civilization series, but had never actually bought 
 one before. The first reason is that I've always had pretty sub-par PCs that are clearly not meant 
 for any type of gaming. The second reason is that I never really got too much into turn-based strategy 
 games. Then I saw the demo for this on the Xbox Live Marketplace and thought I'd give it a try, 
 y'know, see what all the hype was about. Then I got addicted... to the freakin' demo! I decided 
 I had to buy this game and haven't been dissapointed yet. Probably the thing that I love most about 
 this game is that you can gain a victory through a variety of ways. Also, the condensed nature 
 of the game makes it very simple for anyone (especially those who aren't very stratigically inclined) 
 to pick up and play. Not that there isn't a good amount of strategy involved, but at the lower 
 difficulties, you don't have to worry about it so much that you feel overwhelmed. I only have a 
 few gripes about this game. It will sometimes lag when entering a battle. The difficulty also seems 
 to cheese the player on occasions. There's no feasible way that if I am favored 75 to 40 going 
 into a battle that I should lose, right? However, that happens all too frequently on the higher 
 difficulties. Overall, a great and engrossing game that is a perfect way to kill a couple hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro_Zelda_playa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  - Graphics (9/10) : The advisors' graphics are very funny and realistic at the same time. The only 
 things that are not very realistic are the weapons. They look like paper. But other than that the 
 graphics are amazing.
  
  - Gameplay (10/10) : Once you get the hang of this game it will become very addicting. Invading 
 other civilizations is a very cool thing to do. You would understand if you were a king. Many ways 
 to win the game and many new technologies to discover.
  
  - History (10/10) : The knowledge of history is perfect. The great people, the cities, the names 
 of rivers, the names of forests, and the names of deserts are/ were all real.
  
  - Bad Stuff:
  
  - The multiplayer takes along time and is very boring.
  - The diplomacy is 
 very limited.
  - Fans of the series would not really like this game.
  
  - Good Stuff Not in the Other Civilization Games:
  
  - Advisors really help
  - Graphics are 
 funnier
  - Making armies are cool
  - Technologic victory by building a space ship is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nurok17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I am new to the Civ realm and this is my first time playing a Civ game so my review is based on 
 my experience with RTS games as this is also my first Turn-Based-Strategy (TBS) . 
  
  I found this game to be very addicting. Very fun and family friendly as well. What really set this 
 game apart for me is how you can take your time in planning your path for global domination and 
 you don't have to just conquer your enemies by wiping them from the face of the planet. You can 
 win a cultural victory (by building wonders or having Great People settle in you city and then 
 building the United Nations) , an economic victory (getting 20,000 gold and building the world bank) , 
 a scientific victory (by discovering 42 new technologies and building a space station to reach 
 Alpha Centurai) or you can take over the other 4 civilizations capitals to win a domination civtory. 
 
  
  This is just in campaign mode that I am talking about. I have not played online or the other scenarios 
 but from completing the campaign with about half of the civilizations that are there it gives you 
 a different experience each time because your perks are different as you progress through the ages 
 and your cities are so customizable on how and what they produce. From what I have heard it is 
 limited compared to what you can do in previous Civ games but for my first experience is pretty 
 amazing. 
  
  There have been a couple map packs that have come out that I am waiting to try and that will show 
 me how different of a game experience you can get.
  
  Now the gameplay is simply amazing. As opposed to RTS (Real-Time-Strategy) games you're not watching 
 a battle unfold in real time. You take turns with your opponents to decide what your next move 
 will be (much like chess or risk) and a turn may take 2 seconds or 20 minutes depending on what 
 you want to do. Overall it is a very invigorating experience because you build cities and can build 
 other buildings or wonders that will give that city more production (science, culture, gold, food 
 or more production points so you can build things faster) . 
  
  Now you could go through the entire game without attacking anyone but if any of your cities are 
 defenseless than they can capture your city. So you may decide not to be a militant Civilization 
 but you will have to have armies defending your cities against the other CIv's trying to destroy 
 you.
  
  The graphics and animations are very smooth, cartoonish but smooth. It is not at all a scaled environment 
 but they make it look pretty cool and since it is more cartoonish than realistic (i. e. no blood 
 and gore from battles) . Also when you go into diplomatic mode the other Civ's Leader will pop up 
 and is very cartoonish making grunts while the text of what they are saying pops up with how you 
 want to interact with them (i. e. buy technology from them, sell them technology or discuss world 
 events which lets you know the relationship that Civ has with the other Civ's out there) . And then 
 you have you're advisors that look much the same but are no one in particular and all these characters 
 will push one another out of the way in their funny manner as they come up. Overall they all keep 
 you entertained.
  
  You're weapons and units are very diverse and plentiful. You have your ground units (warrior, soldier, 
 tanks etc.) long range ground units ( cannons, artillery etc.) . You have your naval units (transports, 
 battleships, cruisers, galleons and submarines) . And lastly you have your arial units (bombers 
 and fighters) . And of course when you build the manhattan project wonder you get a nuclear weapon 
 that will destroy a cities defenses and buildings that you can capture and rebuild as your own. 
 
  
  You can defend and attack in many ways and it is a very strategic game and though I have not played 
 above warlord difficulty has so far been pretty challenging (although I have won all but one round 
 with relative ease) . 
  
  Overall I give this game a 9.5 as it does have some minor limitations but is to be expected, not 
 enough to make it a drag or take away from the gameplay. It's a more strategic and precise approach 
 to strategy games as opposed to RTS games that are all about making the biggest army and destroying 
 your enemy when they usually make armies twice as fast as you because they don't have to scroll 
 all over the map to build things. It really makes for a more fun experience.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 9
  Fun Factor - 10
  Replay Value - 9
  ----
  Overall 
 9.4 (cant choose 9.4 on the rating above though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_redstar
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  It's still fun like all Civilization games but they've taken out far too much in the way of detail. 
 It moves way too fast and whilst they did this intentionally I was hoping that there would be options 
 to change the size of the World Map to make the game last longer but there really isn't any way 
 to customize the game in that way. You're given various scenarios to change the victory conditions 
 but every game is still too fast paced and it lacks all the depth of the PC versions that I loved 
 so much. Games haven't lasted more than a few hours with this version whereas I have spent days 
 worth of game time on single games on the PC versions.
  I think what they've done is turn this into a kids game and after taking a little look at the civilopedia 
 to see how much they'd put in... all I can say is that I wish they'd put as much effort into the 
 gameplay. All that information and the ease of the gameplay make it feel like a piece of educational 
 software with a game attached to make learning fun.
  Ultimately I'm just annoyed that I spent money on this game when I'd really rather just play the 
 other versions. To be fair, this game is fun to play for the time that it lasts but as a huge fan 
 of the series, this game has no real appeal to me. I can see that it would have appeal to the casual 
 gaming market that everyone seems to be trying to wring cash out of though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewmodulecod
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Good ol' Civilization, any strategy game out there covets the kind of success the series gets, 
 and they only dream of the loyalty that Civilization fans have for their favorite series. This 
 game tries and succeeds to move to from a hefty PC strategy game, to a slightly less-advanced console 
 version, since obviously a full Civilization game would wasted on those dirty console peasants 
 (sarcasm) . 
  
  PC sass aside, it is nice to have an entry in the series where playing a game of it isn't a gigantic 
 obligation. Gameplay moves quickly, and your anachronistic American Empire will be replacing its 
 sword-wielding legions with riflemen in no time. I personally feel that technological advancement 
 can come far too quickly, which, in my some of my first games in the game, meant I would be defending 
 my city against tanks using archers and warriors. Though this can be an exercise in hilarity when 
 you're on the invading side, and an exercise in frustration when your unit of fighter planes is 
 repelled by an army of knights. The game is fairly forgiving with mistakes, and though you may 
 be facing off against a gigantic empire, you'll find that 2 or 3 archer armies are all separating 
 you from the enemy empire's glorious capital. All in all, Civ Rev manages to allow a fairly in-depth 
 experience in a brief and concise manner.
  
  That's not to say that the game doesn't have its flaws. The diplomacy system, once a staple in 
 any successful game of Civilization, has been rendered nearly useless. Though your first meeting 
 with the silly, albeit slightly racist (just listen to Tokugawa if you want to know why) , leaders 
 of other nations gives you the choice between peace and war, no matter what you choose, you're 
 going to war at some point. Which can be especially annoying when you are friends with a nation 
 for a millenium and then they abruptly declare war on you, they often extort you for your famous 
 people or your technologies. Leaders tend to be obnoxiously belligerent, which can be amusing the 
 first few times when you see Ghandi threatening to annihilate you if you don't give him Marie Curie, 
 but can be extremely annoying when all four of the other civilizations are controlled by belligerent, 
 militaristic crazies, somehow I doubt that I am the only one who got tired of fending off Mongol 
 catapult armies, Chinese legions, German archers, and Roman horsemen at the same time. All other 
 diplomacy is almost useless, though you can pay one nation to attack another, few things ever change 
 and you will probably find that your scheme to have Japan wipe out the French Empire will ultimately 
 fail after a pathetic five turns, you think that when they war with your for over a millennium 
 that you could expect that same fervent hatred toward another enemy. The city system can become 
 very invasive when you start getting a lot of cities under your control, and every turn being asked 
 what you want to build in some arbitrary city wears out its welcome fast. And few things are more 
 annoying than losing your riflemen army to pikemen.
  
  All in all, Civ Rev is good, but dragged to far down by some appallingly bad design choices and 
 sheer repetitiveness. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockking123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I found the most fun of this game because there is four ways to win which instead gives you an 
 option to win than only being able to win one way. I only played the one player version so I don't 
 know what Xbox live is like, but i'm sure it is just as good. Also diffirent civilizations give 
 different upgrades or attributes and special units. Also you can make the Manhattan project which 
 allows you to launch a nuke wherever you want and it wipes out the entire city and they can't do 
 a thing. Plus there are so many units. Not only military but also travel and making new cities. 
 Plus this game is the first in the series that is on a console. The units can travel anywhere as 
 long it's in a specific distance. Plus the units can be combined to form an army and triple the 
 strength and defence. I would highly recommend this game for the great gameplay, excellent Graphics, 
 and being able to launch a nuke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtreme_wiz_94
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  i think this game is cool and needs skill strategy and intelegence as it has many aspects and crap 
 like that. but the problem is it is just to damn repetitive and boring i mean its the same thing 
 over and over and over again.
  i think this game is cool and needs skill strategy and intelegence as it has many aspects and crap 
 like that. but the problem is it is just to damn repetitive and boring i mean its the same thing 
 over and over and over again.
  i think this game is cool and needs skill strategy and intelegence as it has many aspects and crap 
 like that. but the problem is it is just to damn repetitive and boring i mean its the same thing 
 over and over and over again.
  i think this game is cool and needs skill strategy and intelegence as it has many aspects and crap 
 like that. but the problem is it is just to damn repetitive and boring i mean its the same thing 
 over and over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jthale
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  Being a long time Civilization fan, playing since the original, I thought the console version would 
 be too shallow to appease my strategic needs. I'm glad I'm wrong.
  
  The console premier has simplified the game play compared to the latest PC versions but kept the 
 true spirit of Civ alive. The result is balanced, quicker more enjoyable games for me which is 
 great because I'm finding less time to devote to games these days. 
  
  Here's a small summary of some of the simplified elements of Civ Revolution:
  
  - Food, there 
 is no minimum that cities need. They will not starve allowing you to devote all workers to production/commerce/science.
 
  - Workers, there are no workers anymore. Roads are by paying for them with gold, improvements 
 are handled with buildings from the city.
  - Tech Tree, 48 techs down from 86.
  - Great People, generated based on your civs culture instead of city by city.
  
  Some improvements 
 to the game include:
  
  - Armies, combine 3 similar units to create an army. The attack and defense ratings of all the 
 units are combined giving you one stronger unit. Ex: a legion that has 3 attack, when combined 
 into an army with 2 others is now a unit with 9 attack.
  - Retreating, when attacking you now have the option to retreat when you're about to lose. Or you 
 can soften an enemy up for another unit to come in for the kill without losing any.
  
  If you're a long time Civ fan and are trying to get most of your gaming done on a console these 
 days, instead of a PC, definitely try out this game. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilyry
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  This is not Civilization IV. I liked Civilization IV, but I prefer Civilization Revolution after 
 playing it. It's a lot faster gameplay, it's simplified without being "dumbed down", and it's character 
 is amazing! In fact my friends and I enjoyed the multiplayer so much that we decided on multiple 
 copies to enjoy via system link. I'd love continued support and and expansion for an already addictive 
 game. There are plenty of strategies to keep the game going fresh forever. My only gripe is that 
 more multiplayer options need to be added. Such as the ability to alter the computer difficulty 
 in multiplayer. I'd also like to be able to stack different unit types together so that movement 
 would be faster. If you like playing single player on the side, with an emphasis on multiplayer 
 mayhem, this is definitely the game for you. My friends and I keep coming back to figure out new 
 and inventive ways to win. Definitely one of the top games I've played this past year, and I'd 
 recommend at least giving the demo a try. Even if you're a seasoned veteran of the classic PC Civilizations, 
 don't overlook this version as anything less. You'll be glad you tried it, and I'm certainly glad 
 I did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: undrpsi
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  I have played every incarnation of Sid Mier's Civilization... since the 1.0 days on a Zenith 486 
 laptop. The pc and mac versions were great. You could do a quick game on 'easy' or spend a rainy 
 Saturday running a whole compaign on 'hard'. The game has always had a litte repetiveness but was 
 still a lot of fun. Now, I was excited about the XBOX version and it delivers in all aspects... but 
 it seems 'dumbed-down'. In the computer versions the AI seems stupid but consistent. Once it found 
 a weak point it would try to exploit it. The XBOX version's AI seems a little retarded. It will 
 smash into the same stuff over and over. It will move single units by your upgraded units just 
 begging to be wiped out. Good graphics, smooth controls, Excellent story (as usual) , but the game 
 itself is 'meh'.... which bites... because I really wanted to like this game. I still play it every 
 week though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeff917
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Warning: The opinions expressed in the following review are NOT endorsed by anyone at Gamespot 
 or any professional reviewer. I'm not paid for my reviews and I do them for fun. They may contain: 
 Foul Language, Violence, references to farts, A lot of references to the word "Poo" totally bodily 
 function loss, or possibly the total collapse of civilization as we know. Oh also reading these 
 reviews you may feel the need to toss a Midget or start a Cripple fight. There is a longer list 
 of things that could happen but I don't feel like posting them here. You have been Warned.
  
  Learning Curve: 30 Minutes
  
  Score: 8 out of 10
  
  Now this is the first Strategy 
 (SP) game that I got for my 360 and I'll admit the game is great but it isn't perfect. From the 
 things I saw I expected more, I'm not sure if it's just me but I expected the game to be a lot 
 fuller than what it was. Also, from my point of view it seems that a lot doesn't really change 
 you have some updated weapons like tanks but when your using your tanks you still have people using 
 Bows and Arrows. It just seems that the game wasn't as full as it should have been. Also your territories 
 doesn't really change with the times either, the only noticeable change I saw was when I used the 
 Nuclear Missile (I think it was a missile) Over all the game is great but it could have been a 
 lot more. I'm hoping that when this game gets it's sequel they learn from the mistakes of the past. 
 The controls are great as is the visuals and sounds. I give this game a Solid 8 out of 10, If there 
 was a top 10 list of games I'd say this game would be on that list. If you like games that make 
 you think, you'll like this one. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAngels_Assasin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is the best RTS on console by far. It takes the PC version and makes it 
 a little dumbed down, but still playable for hardcore Civilization players and newcomers to the 
 series alike. For those who don't know about the Civilization series it's a Turned based strategies 
 game. Where you command your Civilization ( Ex: America, Japan, Aztec, etc) and build it up from 
 the time of nomads to modern age and more. There are four types of victor: Domination ( Simple 
 capture all enemy capitals) Economical ( Reach a certain amount of money and build a World Bank) 
 Technological ( Build your technology and eventually venture into space and reach alpha centurion) 
 Culture ( Build your culture up) . 
  
  There are five difficulty levels; the harder ones can literally make a game last four hours. You'll 
 get addictive with this game and won't want to stop. This brings me to one of the flaws of the 
 game, it has a turn limit, don't know exactly how many but don't be too scared it's about when 
 u reach the 4 hours + mark. Each civilization has a bonus in different periods of time. For example 
 the Aztec fighters regain health after every battle. Some will help you a little to achieve some 
 of the victory requirements. The diplomacy system is not as deep as some other games but still 
 good. Although no matter what you do in the end you'll have every nation coming to get you while 
 barley fighting with them. The game has a lot of units to choose from, althea every civilization 
 has almost the same but with some name changes and some minor differences. In the end if you're 
 and RTS fan and looking for a console fix there is nothing better than this game, get it ASAP and 
 believe me you won't regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cxfounder
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is perfect. It is fun for players new to the civilization series as well as veterans 
 of the popular computer franchise. There are multiple ways to win the game a  
 Technological victory secures a win. For a Domination victory the player uses one of 16 civilizations 
 to conquer the capitals of his enemy. A Cultural victory is when your civilization becomes so populated 
 you are able to build the U. N. An Economic victory is secured when your gold reserves reach a certain 
 number and you are able to build the World Bank. And to win a technological victory you must build 
 a space shuttle of sorts and travel to Alpha Centauri. The massive armies you can build and the 
 many different technolgies you can research to build special units are amazing. This game is addicting, 
 you will find yourself spending countless hours playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Well its almost time to take this diamond of a game back to Blockbuster. I thought that renting 
 this game would satisfy my Civilisation gamer curiosity (I remember playing Colonisation on my 
 mates PC years ago) .
  
  I had heard from Gamespot that this game was great. I played it and admittedly was hooked and addicted 
 like a crack head on well on drugs. C'mon ! thats not a good thing. One reason I don't like this 
 game too much I guess ! If you feel you have to play this game like you have a problem then perhaps 
 the game has a major flaw. I don't get this urge with every great game. I can put games down you 
 know. So I don't really like this game for that reason alone. Its absorbing.
  
  It is fun though, and its got a bit of History thrown in if you bother to check out the Civipedia. 
 Even though most the history will need some extra homework on Wikipedia to learn anything new or 
 useful. Plus the chance to change history won't impress anyone if you tell them how Spain created 
 a Great Wall in 1654 to repel the Indian Empire. The graphics are fun and quirky , cartoony and 
 not very serious. I didn't find this a problem but I guess there are some out there that won't 
 like that. 
  
  The game does sometimes jerk, with graphics lagging a little behind when you are executing your 
 next plan, but this is a known Civ "bug" that I guess is part of the game. 
  
  Its not a full blown Civ game, and the fact that its been consolised means less editing options 
 for maps and victory conditions. No unit editing either. But the game is pretty cool otherwise.
 
  
  I am not going to buy this game or I will regret spending 40 on becoming an unhealthy gaming addict. 
 Plus I don't think its worth the 40 either. 
  
  If you really want/must/need to play it then rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LostSoul1974
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  I borrowed this game from a friend of mine.... well, he pretty much just left it & told me to play 
 it. I figured I'd give it a shot...... turns out I'd forgotten how I once loved Real Time Strategy 
 games!
  
  Graphically, the game looks almost sprite based. The graphics are very clean & befitting of the 
 game. The animation itself seemed very smooth as well.
  
  Moreso beyond graphics, gameplay & fun factor is where this game really excels! I appreciated the 
 way the game pushed me to think about my options in regards to what is the next thing I should 
 have my people do, because it could mean they may flourish or could get taken over.
  
  My only beef with this game is that once really got into a groove & was fully immersed.... it was 
 over.
  
  Anyone remember the game Populous? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmfizz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Could have been longer, but I suppose that replay is something this game brings to the plate. At 
 any rate it was a very good game but I am glad I rented it instead of buying. The graphics are 
 good but could be better, and I would have preferred acting voice overs rather than grunts from 
 the other world leaders. I did get to drop an A-bomb on Paris which was fulfilling. I wish the 
 world would have been larger with more leaders and for the advancements to have been a lot slower. 
 I felt like it was an awesome experience but was to easy and short. Maybe I will try it on a harder 
 difficulty. It is the best civilization game that I have played. I am now just typing to fill up 
 space for the review. blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coopdeville69
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution is the first game I have played of the long series. At first 
 I was not sure if I wanted to buy it even though it had good reviews. So I tried the downloadable 
 version on X-Box Live. After about an hour of playing I was hooked. I could not put the controller 
 down. So the next day I bought it and played nonstop for hours. I haven't had so much fun with 
 a game in a long time. The game play is very easy to pick up. If you start on the easiest level 
 the game helps you understand everything. Once you get the feel for the game and you get to the 
 harder levels the game is very difficult to win. So there are plenty of challenges for everyone 
 in this game. The graphics are alright, but they could be better. The only thing I wish you could 
 do at the end of winning the technology race is if you could continue to play on the new planet. 
 If you enjoy mindless fun this game is right up your alley. Just be prepared once you start you 
 wont want to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Habast
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Civ Rev is a very good game, and much better for the casual gamer than previous civs, but I found 
 it lacking in the strategy portion of the game, especially compared to Civ 4 or 3.
  
  The Good
  Easy, quick running interfaces
  Variety of civs
  Good ol' civ feel
  Doesn't take 
 too long to play a game
  Cool civilization bonuses
  Barbarians are more interesting to fight
  Armies
  
  The Bad
  More cut and dry with less 
 strategy
  The scenario battles aren't fun
  No custom maps
  Rome is purple (i like red better :) lol)
  Ages advance to quickly
  Too cartooney graphics
 
  
  The Just Plain Ugly
  The same problem with previous installments, ancient age is fastest when it should be the longest
 
  
  Gameplay: Solid, 9
  Graphics: Too cartooney, 7
  Sound: Quality, 8
  Story: 9
  Overall: 8.25
  
  In the end its a good game, but not as strategically demanding as previous 
 civilizations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadthefile
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  While this game was criticized by PC fans, I am not one of them. I love the PC game, and I love 
 this as well. The option to build armies is a huge improvement, possibly the most important improvement 
 to a huge military fan like myself. It is more visually appealing, and the cartoonish style was 
 really an excellent choice. The natural wonders were a nice touch as well. There are a few features 
 that I miss, such as border agreements and religions, but the more sophisticated ways of culture, 
 economic, space, and military victory are the most welcomed addition by me. Military victory in 
 the other game was tedious, compared to the more strategic oriented victories to capture the other 
 people's capitals. Opinions from the AI are not as highly based on your relation with the other 
 civs, also, which is good. The five civs is great because it allows a person to zone in on a few 
 at a time. The vast number from the computer games was great, but got ccomplicated.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best games to come out for the system and certainly the best strategy 
 sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyet00th
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Sid Meier's games are just plain fun. He knows how to keep you involved via the 'turn' system, 
 so that the hours melt away while you rule your world. Just like his classic game "Pirates," you 
 keep moving forward and forward, telling yourself you are gonna quit after 'one more turn..'. Heck, 
 this game is like crack. It's loads of fun. The graphics are good. I love the Sid Meier BabbleSpeak 
 that he created.
  
  I haven't played a Civilization game since 'Civ 2' on the PC, and this game is simply fantastic 
 fun. Buy it!
  
  I love the 'Game of the Week' scenario too. It's a great challenge and rewarding to see your hard 
 effort placed on the leaderboard. I have no idea how the top leaders manage to pull off the scores 
 they have, unless some kind of cheat is exploited. 
  
  On the harder difficulties, you can expect to get crushed pretty quickly unless you hustle your 
 building skills and use democracy to talk/buy your way out of many potential wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gedz16
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  This is a game for everyone, its so fun at first it takes time to get used to but after that part 
 you will be amazed.... When i first played this game i didn't think that i would like it because 
 it looked kind of lame, but when i started it grew on me i could't stop playing. Its just so fun 
 to start from the begining and build your own civilization. before yuo start you have to pick your 
 qwn Culture like Americans, Japanese, French and so on, but different cultures have different stuff 
 so you better choose wisely because if you don't you will  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goobyman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  It's a good game... I won't go into much detail, because I am assuming you have played previous 
 Civ games before. That being, you will find the game fun and entertaining, to a point. There is 
 very little in the way of diplomatic engagement between certain civilizations, and as you close 
 in on a victory of any type, all beats are off and the civilizations begin to attack, trying to 
 prevent your victory. I found this cheap... There should have been more detail in this game. I 
 realize it was made for a different audience, but, that doesn't excuse the level of engagement 
 between player and CPU. 
  
  
  Other than my above mentioned complaints, it's not a bad game, in fact in can be fun and engaging 
 on some levels. I would recommend this for children or people who don't play strategy games often 
 and want a bright colorful entry into the genre. Hardcore fans of Civ though, may not need apply. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  To me, this game seems like it hasn't been shined on by websites or magazines like it wasn't good 
 enough. But this game is probably one of the most challenging and mind using games on the 360 has 
 to offer that i have played. Using all the most memorable people of the countries is probably the 
 coolest idea i have seen to lead our country you choose to victory. Achievements are easy if u 
 like them. The three way of winning and making your city your way is super fun to do. Thats mostly 
 it and controlling your warriors and archers and spy's likes that beat people is pretty fun and 
 maxing a warrior squad for beating so many guys after getting like all the countries and cities 
 to be mad at you and fight you. The game is super fun and you'll want to play it all the time. 
 My favorite guy is Ghandi because, um who dosent want to play as the indian? he is insane and its 
 funny to hear all of them talk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  The Good: Extremely addicting turn-based stratagy gameplay, excellent online mode, variety of difficulties 
 which change how you play the game, a strong variety of ways to achieve world domination, well 
 done cartoony visuals.
  
  The Bad: Online can be a bit confusing from time to time, no story more per se, turn limit is annoying.
 
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  One genre that has struggles on consoles since the dawn of time is the RTS (Real Time Stratagy) 
 genre. Although Sid Meyer's Civilization Revolution is technically a turn based stratagy game, 
 it is also the first stratagy game I've played on a console that not only works, but is probably 
 the single most addicting game I now own.
  
  I will confess, I never played the Civ games on the PC, so this review is coming from a complete 
 Civ noob just so you are aware. 
  
  Now I have played numerous RTS games on PC and console, yet dispite all of my previous RTS knowledge, 
 my stratagy had to change drastically for Civ Rev as it is affectionately called. Because the game 
 is turn based, you have a limited number of things you can do per turn, so you have to make sure 
 you are doing everything you can to make the most of each turn. There are four different ways to 
 win the game: Domination, Economic, Technology and Culture. 
  
  Domination is your basic world domination stratagy of taking out all other players' capitol cities. 
 This can typically be achieved faster if you start out going for one of the other victories first 
 instead of simply making a big military and taking out everyone early.
  
  Economic Victory is just like it sounds, you must earn a certain amount of money and build the 
 World Bank wonder. This is often the most time consuming victory to achieve.
  
  Technology Victories are earned by researching new technologies until you can dispatch a space 
 mission to Alpha Centari. This is easiest achieved with selected civilizations, so choose who you 
 are wizely.
  
  Cultural Victory is fairly easy to achieve, but takes some explanation. Basically you earn culture 
 by building wonders, which are structures that give your city special elements, cultural centers 
 such as cathedrals and theaters or by luring great people who give you benefits to your city. To 
 achieve a cultural victory, you must convert 20 cities and/or gain 20 great people as citizens. 
 These both count towards the 20, so it doesn't matter how many of each you achieve. Converting 
 cities of other civilizations occurs when your culture exceeds a surounding civilization's city, 
 so in turn the citizens of that city follow your cultural influence and convert to your civilization.
 
  
  Unlike most PC stratagy games, Civ Rev is streamlined so you focus more on the gameplay and not 
 on resource management. You don't have to build farms or build workers to run your cities, instead 
 you only have to select what is built in your cities being either military forces, spys, settlers 
 who found new cities for you or buildings to advance your city. You have the option to change what 
 your workers are focusing on in each city, but you don't have to in order to win. 
  
  During each turn, you can move already formed troops, make diplomatic policies with other civilizations 
 or manage your own cities. Turns usually go pretty quickly, so don't be surprised if "one more 
 turn" becomes 10 or so. 
  
  There are a variety of civilizations to choose from, each with their own special abilities which 
 effect how you play the game and which victory you should go for, such as the Germans having military 
 benefits or the Greeks having cultural benefits. Uses these benefits to your advantage when choosing 
 which victory type to go for and who you make alliances with.
  
  Diplomacy also plays a major part in Civ Rev. By forging alliances with other nations, you can 
 either protect yourself in order to achieve a cultural, tech or economic victory or gang up on 
 another civilization for a domination victory. Being smart with diplomatic desisions is essencial 
 for victory. 
  
  Although there isn't a story mode in Civ Rev, there is online multiplayer with up to 4 players 
 over Xbox Live. Online sessions can be just as fun or more fun than playing against CPUs, but there 
 can be occasional online hitches such as bursts of lag and people taking too long on their turns. 
 Nothing serious at all, but worth pointing out. 
  
  Probably the single annoyance I have with this game is the pre-set turn limit which cannot be changed. 
 This causes games that you might not want to end to conclude sooner than desired and may ruin your 
 chances at a non military victory (the player farthest ahead automatically wins a domination victory) . 
 
  
  The visuals of Civ Rev are cartoony, but still very well done and fit the style of gameplay perfectly. 
 The goofy fake language voice acting also is well done, but cartoony.
  
  Overall, Sid Meyer's Civilization Revolution is a fantastic achievement in console stratagy. It's 
 a picture perfect example that there can be excellent console stratagy games and turn based games 
 can be more addicting than real time. It is an outstanding game in every way.
  
  Gameplay: Outstanding steamlined turn based stratagy for consoles which is extremely addicting.
 
  
  Graphics: Very cartoony, but completely fit the $tyle of gameplay.
  
  Sound: Very cartoony and goofy voice acting and a solid musical score.
  
  Value: This is a 
 game that you will get more than your money's worth out of if you like stratagy games.
  
  Final Thoughts: Why are the French alligned with te Aztecs?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenAngelXBL
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 10, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  his is my personal opinion on the game, so dont send hate mails, opt to remove the review or whatever, 
 if you do not agree and wish to explain why you like it, feel free to send me a message, just no 
 hate mail thanks :D
  
  My Score system does not work like GS, this is how i mark it:
  
  1 - So bad you want to remove your eyes, ears and other facial features from your body using some 
 sort of kitchen utensil
  
  2 - Abysmal
  
  3 - terrible
  
  4 - Bad
  
  5 - Below average
  
  6 - Average
  
  7 - Good
  
  8 - Really good
  
  9 - Great
 
  
  10 - Total Perfection (varies, if a package such as Orange Box, 10 may go for value of money for 
 example) This grade has never, and most likely never been awarded to a game iv reviewed.
  
  I hadn't picked up a Civ game until this one so i have no past experience with the series therefore 
 i cant compare it... well i can but a really shouldn't. 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Civ Rev is a really nice looking game. It has colorful graphics that are pleasant to view and helps 
 make the game feel more fun. You also have some nice effects with explosions looking good and animation 
 being pretty much spot on. The World Map changes with every map so you never know where you will 
 be conquering and the cities grow ever larger with each building built and each age reached. On 
 top of that each country/leader has unique looking buildings, some are similar such as the Chinese 
 and the Japanese but there are subtle differences. However, there are some issues. There is occasionally 
 slow down once the armies start growing REALLY large, and there's hundreds of cities all building 
 units and structures at once. However, that is really it for the negatives. You could say it looks 
 bad compared to other modern games, but it looks good for the genre of game it is, and thats what 
 matters here i think.
  8/10
  
  SOUND
  
  Civ Rev has a really nice sound track, its epic, happy, aggressive etc whenever it needs to be 
 and never manages to feel out of place. However that's the only good thing about it. Its very repetitive, 
 i wish that there was more tracks to mix it up a bit. On top of this all the voice acting is done 
 in Simian Gibberish. It just gets annoying and it makes playing against the Greeks painful... they 
 are constantly saying scrotum for some strange reason. 
  5/10
  
  CONTROLS
  
  The controls are easy to pick up and are simple to master. A to select and move, B to cancel whilst 
 X and Y have various uses depending on the situation. All very well done and makes controlling 
 your armies and managing your cities really easy, fun and intuitive. 
  10/10
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  In Civ Rev you control 1 of 16 leaders in a bid to control the world via 4 ways. 
 Either Win by culture (conquering using wonders, great people and converting cities peacefully) , 
 Domination (Capturing all other leaders capitals using military might) , Economy (Earn gold to buy 
 the world) or Technology (build a space craft and discover a planet to colonize) . This makes almost 
 unlimited ways to play because each leader has unique abilities and gain more as you progress through 
 the ages (Ancient, Medieval, Industrial and modern) . So getting a domination with the Mongols will 
 be different from getting it with the English etc. Furthermore building, capturing and creating 
 cities is so much fun. Nothing feels better than destroying the defences of a strong defender and 
 taking his city, small amount of buildings and great people as your own. And it feels even better 
 when you convert people because of how much harder it is to do. My main complaint with Civ Rev 
 is the AI. Its terrible. They generally only go for Domination victories so your often caught fighting 
 when you want to do something else such as launch a space shuttle. And the way it makes the game 
 harder is cheap. It gives them advantages like cheaper units who are also 100% stronger, cheaper 
 buildings, quicker research etc. It makes the game harder, but it doesnt feel right. Also some 
 leaders are just rubbish. You get the great and totally unique Mongols, but you also get the rubbish 
 Chinese who have NO good abilities at any point during the game making them underpowered in comparison 
 to many other nations. And finally, i hate the fact the game ends after 2100, i wish you could 
 just continue to play after that and see how large your empire can get. These problems aside, the 
 game is really good. It has that Just One More Turn gameplay that makes a great TBS and with a 
 load of challenging and fun achievements with a great online mode, you will be playing for days 
 on end, especially with things like The Game of The Week that downloads a map and gives you a leader 
 and you have to win. The more you score the higher you go on the leader boards. As well as this 
 you have special games like Colonize Alpha Centuri (the only space level) or win a game whilst starting 
 with 3 cities close to the enemy. Its just fun.
  8/10
  
  OVERALL
  
  A great package thats worth every penny if you like this sort of game. If you dont try the demo 
 and see if your surprised. Everyone iv met was amazed at how brilliant it really is.
  8/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soniwisdom
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution brings the long lasting franchise from the PC world to the consoles. Some 
 changes have been made to the game to better suit this new environment. Basically the game has 
 been simplified while keeping the importance of every choice you make. Along with this the pace 
 of the game has been greatly increased to allow for much faster games. For even faster games, there 
 are several scenarios that allow you to start with all the technologies available or with a considerably 
 developed empire. This allow you to be able to finish a game in a few hours or even less.
  The difficulty levels have been nicely scaled, the game posing virtually no difficulty at Chieftain 
 level while requiring all your mastery and a bit of luck to win on Deity.
  Each civilization is represented by a famous leader and each one has some bonuses that will make 
 one path to achieve victory easier than the others. There are four ways to achieve victory and 
 each one requires you to select the location of your cities and to plan your development properly.
 
  Overall, Civilization Revolution is a great game, a must have for most gamers, as it offers hours 
 on end of pure entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MuscleCarMan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Ok so i rented CIV REV the other day and finally had some time to get to play it. While it wasnt 
 everything i thought it would be, it was still a blast to play. Heres whats up.
  
  Pros:
  - Lots of ways to take over the world
  - Has the Sid Meier Humor
  - Addicting game play
  
 - A good variety of Civilizations to choose from
  - solid multiplayer
  
  Cons:
  - Frame rate chugs during the final stages of the match
  - Controls can be clunky when youve 
 got large armies spread across the globe
  - enemy turns can take forever
  
  Shades of Grey:
  - The micromanaging from previous civs has been dumbed down for the console
 
  - graphics arent all that great
  
  Anyway while this game does have its share of problems, 2k games did a great job bringing an RTS 
 to consoles and still managed to make it very fun to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSHEATZ
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution was anticipated by man CIV fans out there. I feel like it was a good console 
 version of a PC dominated game. At first it seems awesome, which it is. Graphics look alright, 
 but the gameplay is enjoyable. It's been "dumbed down" compared to the PC version, but whatever. 
 It's better that way in my opinion. The game only takes usually 3 hours or so to win also, unlike 
 the days you've spent playing the PC ports of the game.
  
  The only thing is, after playing thru the game with a few civilizations it seems quite repetitive. 
 It's still fun but seems just way too much of the same game to me.
  
  If I were you I would rent this game first. It is a fun game, which is why I gave it a 8.0. It's 
 just that after some time of playing it over and over it seems to get boring to me. So RENT IT 
 FIRST. It's like 5 bucks, and you won't be like me trading it in to gamestop for like 30 bucks 
 max. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daleprechaunman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Where, oh where to start? There are just so many great things about this game. 
  
  For anyone who has played civilization before you already understand about the depth of this game. 
 It's not inconcievable to play a single game for a week or more. You have hundreds of different 
 game concepts to learn not to mention the massive civilpedia (which deserves its own area code) 
 Yeah i know, bad joke; deal with it lol. 
  
  For the console version they were able to strip down the game to its bare essentions and have still 
 kept the essence of it alive. You can now finish a game in a matter of hours and the learning curve 
 is significantly shorter. Even my bestfriend who dislikes Civ4 because of its length loves this 
 game. 
  
  The graphics are better than any other civilization game to date. It has a goofy cartoon look to 
 the characters that is undeniably charming. Its unlikely that anyone can play this game with out 
 cracking up over the hillarious character emotions and actions. The gibberish the characters speak 
 is reminiscient of Sid Meier's Pirates.
  
  So all of you closet meglomaniacs out there need to get this game and fulfill your dreams of GLOBAL 
 DOMINATION!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Badmedic
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  This game gives you all that you want it to, to be quite simple it is almost to addictive and you 
 ma strugle to put it down! Firstly you must choose which civilisation you would like to be such 
 a Egypt who is led by a leader ie Cleopatra. Each of the civilisations start of with some sort 
 of advatage, such as the egypt who has a wonder all ready build. This brings me onto my next point 
 on how you win at this game. You can win in 4 ways wich includes of course taking over other countrys 
 or by gettig 250000 gold so that you are the world bank. You could win by becoming the cultural 
 winner by getting many famous people or by building wonders. All of this is great as it means that 
 you dont have to just build armys to win you can take a more of an outside approch. Overall this 
 game is one of the best that i have played in some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Life_man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I used to play Sig Meier's old game Colonization, and I was addicted to that. Then I tried Civilization 
 2, and honestly I didn't care too much for that game. Understandably I was hesitant about shilling 
 out $60 for CivRev.
  
  Within an hour I knew I made the right choice. This game is astoundingly easy to get into. Basically 
 you move guys around, attack other guys, build some cities, and make a few on-the-go choices, but 
 this game is really much deeper than that. 
  
  How about the graphics? They are very good, the textures you can tell are a little blurred, but 
 the way the fog sits over the land, the cities sit perched on mountaintops, and the military units 
 batle each other are all very eye pleasing, although simple and even cartoonish. No complaints 
 about the sound, either.
  
  The gameplay is great, it's about as addicting as you can get, marriages most likely will collapse 
 as people corall their horsemen around and deploy armies of tanks at to their neighbors. You will 
 run into things such as fighter jets taking on knights, and modern soldiers running around while 
 a Shakespearean Theatre is being built in your capitol, so continuity is a little off, but it doesn't 
 hurt the gameplay.
  
  The game retains a genial, cartoonish appearance throughout. Your advisors will shove each other 
 out of the way to give you updates on the situation, on screen prompts generally have humor to 
 them (Are you sure you want to quit? No, what was I thinking?) and it's friendly with you the whole 
 time. 
  
  The only bad things really would be that the advisors get annoying some times and if you reach 
 the end of the game you get booted out and can't continue with your current game (just about to 
 develop the atomic bomb? Oh well.)
  
  Is the game worth $60? If you really have piles of money go ahead and buy it, if you have like 
 $61, you might want to wait for a price drop, but this is a game that must be experienced, rent 
 it if you're unsure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mntnbkr
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Let me first start out by saying that this is the first RTS game that I have played on consoles. 
 With that being said, this is the best RTS game I have ever played on consoles!  Civilization: 
 Revolution is also my first time playing a Civilization game. So far, I can attest that I am thoroughly 
 impressed. 
  From what I understand from people that have played both games, all of the micro-managing has been 
 taken out. In place of the micromanaging they installed a city screen that lets you direct your 
 people to do your bidding whether it's to focus on production, farming gold, science, etc. or just 
 a little bit of everything. It works and to me it works very well. 
  It seems that every time I play it I get lost and the next thing you know a lot of time has gone 
 by. There is always that one last thing to do or that one last city to destroy or that one last 
 wonder or building to build before you turn off the game. In a nutshell, Civilization: Revolution 
 is great, world ruling fun.
  There is an online component to this game. First we have game of the week which sets the player 
 up with a different scenario each week. There are leaderboards for game of the week that are reset 
 with each new game of the week. Second there is online multiplayer. I haven't tried it out yet. 
 Even though the time involved in a Civilization: Revolution game has been drastically reduced it 
 still CAN be a 1 to 2 hour, maybe more, event. I, unfortunately, do not have that kind of time.
 
  With all of the reasons why I love this game there still are some problems that I have with the 
 game. I know this isn't Sim City but to be able to play and build up your civilization or destroy 
 other civilizations at will would, in my opinion, be great. Also, it seems to me that the game 
 would still be fun on bigger maps. If the maps were bigger then playing just to play would be fun 
 and it would take longer to fill up the map with cities. Last, when playing the regular game it 
 alerts you that in 5 turns the civilization with the highest points wins a domination victory. 
 I am not sure why this is but I've been told that it is because the map has been completely covered 
 with cities by all of the civilizations. I hate that! It always happens when I am taking my time 
 or having a hard time getting an economic or technology victory.
  Overall I highly recommend this game to any RTS fan and anyone, like me, who wants to give a RTS 
 game a try. With Game of the Week, multiplayer and the promise of DLC for the game in the future 
 this game should be around for a while. A definite buy in my opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrueSonOfSparda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  I found out how you can make one of the best games ever. Let it suck your life out. It's not a 
 good thing, but a satisfying thing. Civilization was at my house before I was even born. I played 
 it, and loved it. Now I am in high school, and the new one comes out. It's so time consuming. I 
 had the game for a week and me and my brothers are non stop playing this game. My xbox is turned 
 on for at least 14 hours a day now. As I write my bro is playing this magnificent game. There is 
 so much to do in this game in such literal time. The game ends in 4 hours or less, and trust me, 
 that is not a lot. This is not a game with a campaign. Think of the game like this (if you played 
 portal) . Portal, also known as the best game ever for a lot of people including me, last for 3 
 hours. Now imagine, each time you play portal, the whole area changes, new challenges arise, and 
 new nemeses come. That my friend is the definition of Civilization. Portal is short but sweet, 
 Civilization is just sweet as can be. You can pick many different civilizations, and the best part 
 is they all play differently! Some people like playing as certain people, and others play as others. 
 For example, my brother likes playing as the Americans because they give some culture bonuses, 
 while I cant stand playing as the Americans. After you are a civilization, then you need a form 
 of government. One can pick Democracy, Monarchy, Communism, and a couple more. They all have different 
 effects. Monarchy makes your culture be well off, Communism is just a military government, and 
 Democracy is a peaceful government that you can build things pretty fast. The best part about the 
 game is you can win in four different ways. One can reach Alpha Cintura (Tech way) , one can make 
 the United Nations (Culture way) , one can destroy every one, or one can make the world bank (economic 
 way) . Do one of these before the year 2100 and you win the game. Or you can just wait until 2100 
 and have a hell of a lot of cities. No one does that though. One of the best parts of the game 
 is the combat. You just collide and watch a cool scene with your folks battling out with the foes. 
 Sometimes its funny. Such as knights defeating a division of panzer tanks, or pike men winning 
 against a bunch of fighter planes. If you are doing good in school or your job, get this game. 
 It is a hell of a lot of fun. If you are not doing well in school or your job, this game will be 
 the end of your life if your interested in it. Hope whoever reads this plays this game. You won't 
 regret it, or maybe you will. I have warned you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ufmo
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  I loved the graphics of the game as well as the city details. The game was very easy to get into, 
 especially for anyone familiar with the Civilization series. But I did have some troubles getting 
 used to it on the xbox 360 from playing other versions on pc. The buttons for different menus and 
 for controlling units took me awhile to get comfortable. I also didn't like the American advisors 
 not speaking any english language that I could make out. I also didn't like the annoying sound 
 effects that they made... i mean after 4 hours of them chatting I wanted to hit the tv or at least 
 mute them. I found that the game seemed to end rather quickly and without any fan fare. I didn't 
 really get that sense of me being king of the world. Also I didn't like it that my naval ships 
 could not attack cities, but alas could simply help defend inland units.
  
  I did like the scenarios and animated battle exchanges. I also enjoyed the special units for each 
 civilization and the bonuses awarded between eras. I actually enjoyed winning a cultural victory 
 over a domination victory because the cultural aspects of the game were more interesting than the 
 skirmishes. The game was still very enjoyable and I would recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fugiex
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 22, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  civilizations the ever popular stretegy game in the computer world, its cartooness and addicting 
 and easy controls makes this one of the best computer games to have all year around. But the question 
 is can civilization have the same success on console as it did on the computer? the asnwer is ''yes'' 
 The transractions from computer to the console seem to fit in with very well but with some glitches 
 and game controls problems along the way. But still this game is very easy for long time players 
 and new player to get into it. 
  
  Sid meiers civilizations has kept the same type of formula from the computer to your console, it 
 would make sense because there was nothing wrong with it in the first place. As the other civilizations 
 games before you as the player get to choose a leader from any historical civilization with one 
 goal in mind to conuer the world. There are 16 different type of civilizations to choose from with 
 each of their own unique set of feat or you want to call it strenght. The culture of each civilization 
 is represented with a historical leader from lincoln to genghis klan. The game continues its cartooness 
 style with fun historical events from dicovering the hanging gardens to techology of flying to 
 keep the player entertain to game. 
  
  Civilizations has seperated itself from other type of strategy games that usually focus base on 
 military actions that you move or your emeny. Cilivization gives you choice of four different ways 
 to win the game from military might, scientific supremacy, economic power and cultural superiority, 
 these may sound easy but its challenging and its worth getting if you are really into this game. 
 Civilizations starts off as its usually begining you start off with a settler, you can move the 
 settler around the map until you find somewhere you would like to plant your first villege. From 
 there you get to choose from your first warrior or another settler to try to expend your empire 
 before others civilization that may close in on you to make your empire smaller state. As the game 
 go on you get to explor more of the map and encounter resources, food, and other scatterd barbarians 
 and other civilization ravls on the map that you may have to fought off. When you encounter another 
 civilization the game would sort of pause for a few second and then window would appear with the 
 leader either want peace or war. 
  
  Civilzations turn base style system is the same like other turn base games, the ramdon decision 
 from your console gets to choose who gets to attack first and last without the ranks of your units. 
 if your unit fails to defend or attack another unit they disappear off the map. If your unit manages 
 to win it gains exiperence points that works towards ranking up military unit to the next higest 
 level, which makes them stronger to power unit to fight. The gameplay may be glitchy when selecting 
 a military unit to use in attacking another unit but it gets easier during time in the game. 
 
  
  In Civilization the military may be important but you also have to pay attention to your villages 
 that you made with the settlers on the map. Every village has their own needes that requires your 
 attentions towards its sucessfull towards expending your borders of your empire on the map. They 
 usually needs cultural, food, and wall with military units protecting it. But if they have what 
 they need your boarders would become smaller or your village will join another civilizations that 
 would make them happier and that would usually end your goal of conquering the world. 
  
  Civilization techology can help you on your goal in determining the style you want to win the game, 
 With each techology that you require you get to advance your civilization from the rest. Choosing 
 a techology can be difficult towards the path you want to go, thats why the game has made a little 
 chart that give you a little example of what this techology can do and whats the next advancement 
 towards your goal to win the game. Illl have to admit that some of the techology doesnt really 
 make much sense like how dose gunpower lead up to space flight? 
  
  Civilization has takening it place in the historical glory in the computer world and with the move 
 to console it may see the same sucessful glory once again. But with such glory it comes with problems, 
 althrought civilization is great game it has some gameplay and pausing during windows poping up 
 during the game. It can be annoying at sometimes and ruine the past of the game. But however it 
 does make it up with its entertaining cartooness looked and strategy style type of game that fans 
 came to know ! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koushikp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:32 am PT
Review:  In simple words, very very addictive and tremendous replay value.. a lot of people are saying this 
 is not as great as the PC version and in the PC version u can play with 8 players and so on, but 
 my point is... lets say u win a game like this in the highest difficulty level and then what? try 
 a new route to win... better than that... the superb XBOX Live multiplayer in it makes it superb, 
 the sheer unpredictability of the human mind takes this game to a new level in multiplayer where 
 this can last for 5-6 hours or more at a stretch... whereas the AI may not bother you after u convert 
 a city on culture, u know many human opponents aren't going to let u off that easy, there can be 
 display of military might or sheer focus on research and limiting your borders and winning the 
 game... try it guys... you won't regret it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBlueBanana52
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  look its not that the game is bad its just, they took out way to much stuff level  
 up for airplanes and boats, and no vassal states that was the best, and the custom game is not realy 
 a custom game at all you choose difficulty and your character and thats it. ON the pc you can choose 
 up to 8 people but nooo on the x-box its only 4 which makes it way to easy to win and the world 
 size is wayyyyy to small i and i dont no about you guys but i like building up my empire far, on 
 the x-box you can have infantry units while the other guy still has calvary, my favorite thing about 
 the series was that you can take over the world how you wanted i put epic whit 8 players win only 
 conquest AI aggressive world the biggest and 3 continent and lock technology trading. Ok i agree 
 that they focus on online and more friendly user but am a hardcore fan of the series and sadly 
 they let me down am not even that exited about civilization colonization. Oh but i like the new 
 ability stuff thats cool (Genghis khan all the way) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FD3355
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Vidi, vidi, vichi. Just like Caesar this game came and it conquered. You are in command of a powerful 
 ancient civilization and set out to conquer the world through technology, economics, culture, or 
 you can simply wipe your enemies off the map.
  
  GamePlay: This game best achievement is its transition from keyboard to gamepad. Unlike previous 
 Xbox PC to console games this control is flawless and I believe I like it better then a simple 
 keyboard. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics fit the "Fun" feel and the frame-rate is usually solid. 
  
  Problems: 
 Be warned new civ players, the tutorial is lacking so be prepared to read the instruction manual. 
 Also later in the game when you have to have over 50 units on the map things tend to get complicated.
 
  
  Sound. Leader volume 0, advisor volume 0, your welcome. Besides the Gibberish of you fellow leaders 
 in the game the back round music is solid
  
  Despite very minor problems Revolution is a master piece and recommend to anyone with a pulse. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solonel
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Gamefly sent this to me because none of the games in my queue were available. I never intended 
 to play this game let alone rent it but it came anyway. 
  
  I took it to a friend's house to let him try it out. He fiddled around with it a bit then stated 
 that it was severely lacking compared to a full blown RTS on PC. He wanted to zoom in and out, 
 he wanted to see more of the playing field. Then, he asked me if I wanted to try it.
  
  Hesitantly, I took the controller and played a bit. Over the next few hours I started to get into 
 the swing of things. Mind you, the last RTS I liked was Warcraft II or possibly Command and Conquer 
 (the first two games) . I had tried Lord of the Rings & Command and Conquer for 360 and just couldn't 
 get into them.
  
  With Sid Meier's newest game however, I became addicted. Though I don't have too many friends on 
 Xbox Live, the ones that I do have keep PM'ing me to play BF: Bad Company, Halo 3, Vegas 2 or something 
 OTHER than Civ: Revolution. 
  
  It's a nice simple introduction or re-introduction in my case to RTS games. The progression of 
 modes becomes increasingly difficult but you can complete and win in a single gaming session (mind 
 you, my gaming session lasted 5-6 hours into sunrise) but it can be done. I've won on the easiest 
 mode as Kat the Russian but I didn't get any achievement points for it. *shrug* 
  
  I've won as France and as the Romans. Deity level is very difficult to the point where I've given 
 up for now. I've gone back to King and Warlord modes. Nevertheless the game is great fun for me, 
 very different from the tactical shooters that I've been playing recently.
  
  Give the game a chance, rent it! 
  
  Unless you are a PC RTS gamer, don't rent it and don't 
 buy it. You will be disappointed like my friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellfire1218
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  this is the first civilization i have ever played and it is awesome. it is easy to learn if you 
 don't know how to play it and it has a lot of difficulty levels so you can choose to have a huge 
 challenge or you can make it a piece of cake. there are a lot of civilizations with different abilities 
 to choose from. you can even play as Genghis Khan khan which is freakin awesome. there are also 
 4 eras (ancient, medieval, industrial and modern) and they all add new abilities depending on your 
 civilization. there are also 4 ways 2 win: economicly (if you reach a certain amount of money) , 
 Domination (capture all enemy capitals) , Technological (achieve space flight) and cultural (build 
 U. N) it also has an online mode which is pretty fun. this game can also get addicting for a bit. 
 i recommend this game to everyone and i give it 9 out of 10 because it is such a fun game to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XCyberForceX
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Overall the game flowed well and the graphics truly awesome. Game play is easy to pick up with 
 micromanagement of cities water-down. 
  
  Negative - My big problem with the game is that when you order a city to build something it would 
 be nice to have a que of multiple projects. Also, near the later years of gameplay, when every 
 technology is acquired and nothing left to build, cities still ask what to build every cycle . 
 . . when there's nothing left to build. One last minor negative is there is only one continent 
 on various small island. Game play would be more interesting with more than one major continent.
 
  
  Positive - The game is very addictive, hard to put down, and never the same. Animation had me rolling 
 on the floor laughing. 
  
  New to Civilization - Newcomers will find the game refreshing, fun and a definite game to keep 
 in your collection.
  
  Civilization Veterans - Those not new to civilization may find the game watered down and maybe 
 a bit simple. Just keep in mind that this is a game for a console and was made for pure entertainment. 
 The PC version may be more suited for those desiring a pure strategy game with all the bells and 
 whistles.
  
  
  Overall this is is a great buy for XBOX 360. You won't be disappointed as long as you don't compare 
 the PC version to console. Two totally different animals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klugenbeel
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  For anyone know has been PC gaming for years, you have probably heard of Sid Meier. This man has 
 been making the best Turn Based Stradegy games out there, from Civ 1 through Civ 4, to even the 
 great, and highly under rated Alpha Centauri. For once though, a Civ game has come out for the 
 consoles and not the PC and it is great! Most would expect something like this to be terrible on 
 console, like many ports, but despite that this one has been made with less Micro managing, it 
 works for this. The point of this Civ is a game that you can pick up and play for 2-3 hours and 
 finish, not spend the 12+ hours on 1 game that we all have done countless time on past Civs. What 
 has made the Civ games great is not lost in this port and the game just is beautiful and classy. 
 This is a game you can just play over, and over, and over, and over again and again and again. 
 Plain and simple, this is another great Civ game and it will be nice to see a larger audience playing. 
 This is a must have for your 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tomasini_Eagles
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I rented Civ Rev and I'm having a great time playing it.
  Many people complain that this isn't as good as Civ 4 because there is smaller maps and less enemy 
 factions on the map at a time.
  I admit this is true but this game isn't meant to be like Civ 4. This is a more relaxed version 
 of Civ 4. I prefer it to Civ 4 because I can play online with my friends and the game only last 
 an hour or two because it's all scaled down. That way it doesn't really matter who wins and its 
 more fun.
  
  Gameplay: Very fun to play especially your first time. I love that there are 4 different ways to 
 win the game and not are that much easier to get then the others.
  
  Graphics: Sid Meiers has himself a very nice looking game here. I love how the units look a little 
 different depending on their faction.
  
  Sound: Very funny Sim-like languages used and they actually sound like they may be German, French, 
 Spanish, Russian, etc. The Sim-ish may annoy you after playing hours on end.
  
  Realism: It's not quite what I had hoped... 
  Ex. An archer army killing my fighter plane... 
 wtf is with that?!
  Ex. Gandhi threatening to crush my civilization because I wouldn't give him gold... not very Gandhi-like 
 if you ask me.
  
  Difficulty: It has 5 different difficulties to chose from...
  Chieftain - Very Easy (All your units get a 100% attack/defend bonus)
  Warlord - Easy (All your 
 units get a 50% attack/defend bonus)
  King - Average (No bonus)
  Emperor - Hard (No bonus)
  Deity - Very Hard (No bonus)
  
  To all of you complaining that 
 this game sucks because there is no customization and very little unit types... go back to Civ 
 4 where you belong and leave Civ Rev to those of you who just want to play a fun game. Not one 
 that has to have a massive map and 100s of unit types.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  I must say this game was not something I was looking at before I knew what games I wanted to get 
 for this year.
  
  I was reading around the internet and saw how people said this game is amazing, and this it lives 
 up to its name. I never played the game on the PC so I was like hey, whats the point? So, I downloaded 
 the demo and need less to say I love the game.
  
  Now, it's only a demo and the demo was amazing so this was a must buy game.
  
  So, I got the 
 game a couple days ago, and I love the game. It's simply amazing I am glad I downloaded the demo 
 so I could see this great game in action.
  
  I think the one thing I like is the game play, and then I also like how I can build troops and 
 take over citys. Also, that there is like a lot of things you can do and ages you can go threw.
 
  
  I would say this game is a must buy, weither you have played it on the PC, or you have not played 
 the game at all. 
  
  Go download the demo :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whirlbat
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:12 am PT
Review:  For those of you who for some reason are reading this review without first knowing what the game 
 is, Civilization Revolution is a turn-based strategy game centered around world domination. Domination 
 is a bit of an aggressive word, though, because truthfully, you can win through very peaceful means. 
 It's a simple game that can be enjoyed by young, old, and casual gamers, as well as die-hard Risk 
 aficionados.
  
  The Good: There's plenty to compliment about this quaint, little game, and perhaps it's most charming 
 quality is just how simple it is. The game is remarkably intuitive, and while there is sufficient 
 depth for the tactician in you to spend days formulating what you think is the "best" strategy, 
 there's nothing in this game that would prevent your middle school-age brother from breezing through 
 a nice Lightning Round scenario between his algebra and English homework. The story mode - if you 
 could call it such - is very short. You'd think that would be a bad thing, wouldn't you? In this 
 case, I wouldn't say so. The game is kept at a very nice, quick pace (so long as you aren't playing 
 online) . In an age where falling asleep reading Great Expectations is the sole diagnostic for A. D. D., 
 CivRev does well to minimize the lulls in its gameplay. Every civilization is available from the 
 onset, and while it may be odd to see Abraham Lincoln negotiate peace with Cleopatra, it's exciting 
 to use each of the different civilizations for their various tactical advantages.
  If you're an achievement addict, like I am, you'll appreciate this game. Achievements are logical, 
 fun, and scored appropriately for their respective levels of difficulty. While it isn't the hardest 
 1000 GP you'll earn, I personally found them to be just difficult enough to be challenging but 
 not frustrating (unlike the stupid viral achievements) . Many of them are things you would probably 
 try anyway, like winning each type of victory (economic, cultural, technological and domination) 
 on the hardest difficulty.
  The game is also very colorful and cutesy. Now, while that probably doesn't mean much to we Gears 
 of War players, who grinned for a week when we first heard about the chainsaw bayonet, it is nice 
 for those of you who are looking for something that siblings could play or that your girlfriend 
 might enjoy playing with you... or even if it's just something to put on top of your stack of M-rated 
 games for your parents' sake. It's a fun game that's appropriate for all ages.
  
  The Bad: There's nothing terribly wrong with the game, but there are a couple things that might 
 have been done better. For one, there are a few glitches that, while humorous, take the risk factor 
 out of the game. For example, you can build a city on a 1x1 area of land, surrounded by water. 
 By doing so, so long as you have a single unit defending that city, it is impossible for your opponent 
 to capture it, because they have no means of landing their ground forces. Other such glitches exist 
 that will make your cities invulnerable to attack, but I won't detail them here (mostly because 
 I'm not completely sure how I did it in the first place, but it's happened more than once) . Another 
 thing is that while it is very possible to win on the hardest difficulty, Deity, it can be a punishing 
 experience the first couple of times you try. Liken it to wearing clothes pins on your lips for 
 a couple hours; that's about how long it took me to figure out that I just need to give every other 
 nation their way and pray they want to sell me Space Flight technology before they launch their 
 own ships. Deity is truly a grueling level of difficulty that I would never play outside of getting 
 the achievements. I mean seriously... what else but the supernatural force that is Isabella of 
 Spain could defeat a force called the IMMORTAL TANK ARMY with nothing more than a handful of archers 
 and a pocket full of dreams? Which brings me to my last point... never have I met a ruler more 
 willing to throw soldier after soldier into my defenses than Isabella of Spain. It was truly a 
 brilliant tactic in the end, despite being HORRIBLY ANNOYING; I gave her whatever technology she 
 wanted just to get her to GO THE HECK AWAY FOR 5 TURNS!
  
  Audience: If you're old enough to appreciate an XBox 360, you're old enough to play Civilization 
 Revolution. That's not to say it's a baby's game. It's a great game for kids, teens, adults, grandparents, 
 and college kids who consult "the coin of fate" to determine whether or not they'll be showing 
 up for classes on any particular day. The intuitive controls makes this title a very pick-up-and-playable 
 game.
  GUYS, if you're trying to get your girlfriend into video games, this might be a title to consider 
 picking up. It's cute, it's fun, it's easy to learn, it's something you can play together, and 
 best of all, you won't run into any 9-year-olds trying to act "thug" and raving about how cool 
 their WoW clan is. (Yeah, I'm talkin' about you Pickles.)
  
  Overall, I'd recommend this game to just about anyone who enjoys video games. It's at least worth 
 renting or borrowing. At the very least, you can try out a demo for free on XBL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: occidental
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  In brief: this is a great game and brings a truly great PC strategy experience to the console.
 
  
  Strengths: 
  - Excellent replayability
  - Innovative (for console) turn based approach
  - Games flow and progression is great in single 
 player
  - Stylish, cool and fun
  - Decent graphics
  - Immersive game experience (watch the hours tick away)
  - Streamlined gameplay that lets beginners 
 and CIV vets have fun w/out the headache of micro-management
  
  Weaknesses:
  - Emaciated amd meaningless diplomacy functions: computer doesn't honor treaties or care if you 
 don't either, trade almost absent
  - AI is hard but shallow and unintelligent: AI civs don't want to do much besides instigate wars 
 and raze your cities to the ground
  - Unable to select civilization of opponents 
  - Can't change terrain or other physical features of planet in single player mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil1472
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  Civilizations Revoultions provides a easy and effecent way of managing all you buildings and keeping 
 track of units. You start the game as a group of settlers of a specific civilization i. e the aztecs 
 and your goal is to be the best civilization by the end of the game. You will need to build armies 
 and reaserch technoligies to be succesful. The game starts 4000 years b. c and finish 2100 ad. Each 
 turn passes 100 years of time. Your strategy for victory will depend on what type of victory your 
 going for, civilization revolution offers 4 different was to achieve victory. Domination, Cultural, 
 Scientific, Economic. A domination victory is achieved by taking all enemy capitals. A cultural 
 victory is obtained by building 20 wonders or acquiring 20 great people or converting enemy towns 
 to join your civilization then building a United Nations wonder. A scientific Victory is obtained 
 by reaserching advanced technolgies and lauching a space mission to a nearby solar system Alpha 
 Centauri. The economic victory is achieved by accumulating 20 000 gold pieces and building a world 
 bank wonder. The game has some cool visuals and interesting technologies that can be unlocked, 
 theres a certain amount of fun to be had dropping nukes on the American. The game has a good difficulty 
 curb giving you three difficulties to advance from chieftain.
  
  Features
  
  The game has very little features Besides the show room where you can see the wonders you have 
 built and the great people you have acquired there is a multiplayer and a xbox live feature that 
 no turn based strategy has any business being associated with. One cool feature that is powerd 
 by x box live is the game of the week. Every sunday xbox live posts a game, the same game that 
 will have the exact same scenario as any one else who plays it. This is done to make sure there 
 is no advantage. You can paly the game of the week as many times as you want to try and get the 
 best score.
  
  Graphics/Sound 
  
  The Graphics for Sid Meirs Civilization Revoltion are quite appealing. The graphics really help 
 the game keep its playable factor up. The sound effects are done well, the npc's comments get annoying 
 really quickly. When an npc has something to say an animation of them will appear at the bottom 
 right of your screen a neat feature, defintly to appeal to a younger audience.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  I stated earlier that no turn based strategy game should have head to head live. 
 Civs provides a four way head to head match. The game drages on when you have to wait for the other 
 players to complete there turn. It takes five turns to get a warrior unit the first thing you get 
 after setting up your settlers, it took me an hour to get my first warrior unit. The game of the 
 week is an excellent use of xbox live
  
  Achievements
  
  The Achievements in Sid Miers Civilization Revolution are of moderate difficulty and high effectiveness. 
 The achievements ensure you have gotten the most out of the game by wining on all difficulties 
 and all civilizations and no multiplayer achievements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXMadManVII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I am first going to talk about what I did not like about Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution for 
 the xBox360. The first thing that I don't like is the cartoony presentation. From the screen shots 
 I expected the graphics' cartoonyness, but the presentation of the advisers and diplomats are a 
 little childish for me. I thought that a game of world domination would be a bit more "grittier" 
 if you know what I mean. The next "point" comes off for the oddness of the tech tree. I was able 
 to win a Technological Victory without being the most technological civilization. I am of the opinion 
 that if one can send a space colony to Alpha Centari, one should have developed the automobile 
 first. Well not in this game. There are more of those types of "tech tree oddness" throughout the 
 whole game. It is not "broken" by any means, just weird. I imagine this was developed this way 
 so a player can chose the most direct path to a tech victory as a overall strategy, leaving him 
 at a disadvantage, militarily . I am sure other direct paths to victory will leave a player weak 
 elsewhere. 
  The rest of the game shines. I have had no problems with the controller at all. The button mapping 
 makes sense, everything is where it should be. There is no hour long tutorial like in Battlestations: 
 Midway. You can jump right in and start playing. If you play on a lower difficulty an adviser pops 
 up every once in awhile and tells you how to do things, and what to do if your not productive enough. 
 The map movement could be a little more fluid, it seems to jerk across the screen, but it is no 
 big deal at all. The zoom out feature really helps out in getting a good birds eye view of the 
 world, and speeds up cursor movement across the map. From inside the City screen you can jump from 
 city to city with relative ease, issuing build commands. You can not issue commands to the units 
 placed in the cities from the city screen that is done from the world map, again with relative 
 ease. You just have to remember which analog moves the screen and which commands the unit. The 
 battles play out well on the map with little animations of units blasting on each other. When units 
 achieve 3 victories or beat a superior enemy, that unit receives special abilities, which are stackable, 
 to give you elite units that specialize in certain things like city attacks, city defense, bonuses 
 for fighting on home soil, things of that nature. 
  So all in all, Civ Rev is defiantly worth playing. Easy to learn, tough to master. Hours of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstclair1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 12:03 am PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is a great start for the series n the console arena. i expecting a little 
 less considering how most PS based games turn out when they take the plunge to the console. 
  Let me start out by saying that the gaming pad works really well for the game and you almost could 
 operate any commands with just one hand since it is a turn based strategy game. Simple commands 
 bring up options with right and left bumpers and city management is almost done for you. The focus 
 of the game is where it should be. 
  There are sixteen playable Civs and four ways to win the game; domination, financial, cultural, 
 and technology. When playing, it becomes more and more obvious that you will need a set strategy 
 for whichever way you want to win. For example, if your strategy is to win on a technology victory, 
 then you will most likely want to micromanage your cities and build more universities and libraries. 
 These types of buiding allow you to research more and faster, thus, advancing your civ faster than 
 without. If you want to win a domination victory, you need to build little more than a barracks 
 and keep pumping out troops. 
  As you progress through the game, you will notice that the game gets a bit harder at the more advanced 
 levels. The King level (middle level) will offer most Civ players a challenge; especially depending 
 on your initial placement on the map. Civ uses a random map generator so "no two maps are the same" 
 even though i have played a couple of the maps several times. Your proximity to potential enemies 
 during this placement phase often decides the type of victory you set you Civ to win. If you are 
 alone on a sizable island, you might have a good change at setting the conditions to win a tech 
 or financial victory but if are placed right next to a hostile neighbor, you might want to take 
 them over culturally or by brute force. 
  Drawbacks to game is that it can be repetitive. Every game can be a race to research key technologies 
 such as fuedalism (which gives you knights and a military advantage) . On harder difficulties, the 
 AI is downright cheap. They advance so much quicker that they will literally be sending tanks to 
 attack city while you still trying to defend with archers. The AI chatter can get pretty annoying 
 but luckily there is an option to tuen it off in the main menu. Also the graphics are cartoonish 
 rather than realistic. It is in this setion of gripes that I must mention that all of the achievements 
 are only available on the single player mode and not online.
  Overall, this a great game. i look forward to more iterations on the console of the series. 
 
  
  Graphics- 7
  Gameplay-9
  Sounds-7
  Replayability-9
  
  Overall- 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boskung_Pup
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Let me say that I have been a huge fan of the Civilization series for the PC since the day Civ 
 I came out. I have played all the Civ games, and when I heard about one coming out for the Xbox 
 360, I was excited.
  
  Revolutions interface is slick and easy to use, something that is so important in making a game 
 like this on the Xbox successful. The graphics are great. The gameplay still has that highly addictive 
 feel, where you are playing into the wee hours of the night saying to yourself "just one more turn". 
 It is a different game than it's PC cousin, but this doesn't necessarily make it a bad thing. Revolutions 
 is a shorter, tighter game than the PC based series, but that doesn't dimish the amount of fun 
 you can have, or belay a lack of depth. Far from it, the game has plenty of depth to offer in its 
 game play, and with the more compressed time-frame, your strategy for success is critical -- espicially 
 at the higher difficulty levels.
  
  The additional of multiplayer is great, and more fun that originally thought due to the tighter 
 game play mechanics.
  
  The only thing that has me scratching my head is less about the game, than the leaderboard ranking 
 system. One thing I have noticed when looking at a few of the top players listed on the leaderboard, 
 is that someone will be ranked very high, winning the game by conquest in about 4 or 5 game turns. 
 I scratch my head on this one, as you are usually pitted against 4 or 5 other civilizations, usually 
 not all based in the square beside you. Just not sure how this is done... Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitarshreder69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is so frickin sick. I didnt even think that i was going to like it but i rented it because 
 everybody told me that i had to and i am so happy that i did. The game will just pull you in. The 
 game has so much depth to it but it has pick up and play controls and as you play through your 
 first game there are all of these diffrent and crazy charcters that tell you what is best and how 
 to play the game. The many diffrent ways that you can win make the game exciting and creative. 
 There are 5 diffrent difficulties that range from easy to really really hard. There are i think 
 10 diffrent teams that you can play for and each one has its diffrent strengths and abillites so 
 theres a lot to choose from here. The worst thing about this game is the multiplayer because its 
 kind of confusing and it moves pretty slow. Also when you sit down to play this game be prepared 
 to be there for a while. Most games take me about 2 hours to complete. So expect to play this game 
 for a while but it is well worth it and after you get into the game you won't even be thinking 
 about time. 
  
  OVERALL I GIVE THIS GAME A 
  9.5 OUT OF 10
  BECAUSE OF ITS MANY DIFFRENT TEAMS, WAYS TO WIN, AND THE JUST COMPLETE DEPTH OF THIS GAME. SO IF 
 YOU LIKE RTS'S OR EVEN IF YOU DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doctor_Romano
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Sid Meier's has to be my favorite strategy franchise for the way the character look cartoony the 
 way they speak and it doesnt make it to difficult that its just annoying I loved Sid Meier's pirates 
 so much because it never ended you can just keep goin and stop when you want this game however 
 stops so fast! as soon as I get space flight and start getting all the cool technology (not sayin 
 that the Medevil era and Stone age arent fun) it ends it says all these things you can do for space 
 flight but when you start it ends! Its cool how it has all the great leaders with their own specialt'ys 
 and everything also and taking over different cities naming your own cities finding deserts, plain's 
 and forests is cool and also the graphics arent half bad either well that just about sums it up 
 but one last thing I do like the Multiplayer alot it works really smooth i thought it would be 
 but its really not that bad well that sums it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  So if you are a Civ fan... get this game its great... nuff said.
  
  Problem is though that you can't go in expecting Civ 4 or Civ 3 or some other Civ... but instead 
 a Civ made for the console. Now I do not mean it is dumbed down, but instead the controls are just 
 easier to master.
  
  Some things that I am upset about though... and maybe its just because I havnt read the manual 
 in some cases...
  
  1.) There is no point to trade. Like if you get wine or silk or game... cool... but whats the point 
 besides an achievement? 
  2.) There is only one leader for each civilization. I am just used to having so many more options 
 when it comes to them.
  3.) The (I'm having a brain fart right now) special buildings that give you the bonuses... they 
 have different meaning now then previous games.
  4.) The game is to fast. When I play lets say Civ 4 on my computer I can waste a weekend on one 
 game and still have things to do with it. In this game each game only lasts but a few hours.
  5.) After you beat the game (any way) it wont let you continue... whats up with that?
  6.) Maybe 
 I just don't know how to.... but only one nuke?
  7.) There are more petty complaints but they are just that.... petty. I love this game and as you 
 can see it gets an 8.5 in my book... maybe even higher. All in all its another "just one more turn" 
 civ.
  
  -The Croix Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoorah12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  In civ fashion, revolution places you into a world in which you are able to choose your nation 
 and thrive. There are 16 different civilizations that you can choose from, each have leaders with 
 their own certain abilities. Once you have chosen your civ, then you begin and develop as the game 
 goes on. You are forced into diplomatic decisions, threatened by your fellow civ. and are challenged 
 to help your civilization grow. The game is extremely immersive, and move at a much faster pace 
 than it's predecessors. The graphics are amazing, and the detail placed into the characters when 
 other leaders interact with you is highly realistic. The game gives you a god-like feel, and is 
 extremely satisfying watching your civilization thrive. I have played the previous civ games, and 
 others in this genre. And take my word for it, this game is worth the buy. It can be played over 
 and over again without feeling dull and tedious. Each time that you play seems like a new experience 
 with new situations and battles. Overall, civilization revolution is an amazing game, and the name 
 does the game it's justice. This game is truly revolutionary, although there have been previous 
 ones similar to it, none have been equipped with the ability to be as immersive as civ. revolution. 
 A great game and a must by for previous fans and new gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grillinvillin69
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Like i said the game has got some technical faults but its a pretty good game. Some technical issues 
 for instance that i had were was when i got the ability to make archers i see them in my units 
 creation slot, i create one unit of archers the next turn they aren't their any more I'm not able 
 to make archers any more archers i still had the one unit of archers in play but thats all i could 
 make, because of that it made it very difficult to get ahead of the other nations in domination 
 leaving me behind in other categories as well. Still even wen i had archers i still couldn't defeat 
 other nations quickly because their were so many units in enemy cities that i couldn't produce 
 men as fast as they could. But i still had fun playing the game. I loved it. it was endlessly re 
 playable and tons of fun. multi player took a wile but it was still enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revway
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is one of those games that you can play for 8 hours or just for a few minutes. 
 Although the chance that you'll play 'just for a while ' is not likely to happen because once you've 
 started it's hard to quit.
  
  Navigating the menu, selecting cities and simply playing the game works like a charm on the Xbox 
 360 even though I expected it to be harder considering that you're using a control pad instead 
 of a mouse. The game has easy-to-access buttons for each configuration of the characters and the 
 settings on your cities. In other words, everything works.
  
  I'm still enjoying this game after having it for a month and while it's pretty easy to grasp the 
 basics you always find a new thing to try and build. The four ways to winning a match is challenging 
 and from start to finish it takes about 4 hours to complete one round. Even though that's the case 
 all that you do is start up a new one and you'll have just as much fun each time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slowram
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I keep thinking I'll get tired of this game, it certainly isn't as deep as it's PC parents. However 
 I've now played thru 4 games and certainly will be coming back for more. 4 games is a ton for me 
 as I was playing about 2 games a month prior to getting this title. Now I've played 4 games of 
 Civ Rev in 2 weeks.
  I had read the game was more or too difficult, whatever, I thought Civ 3 was a pain (I enjoyed 
 Civ 4) , this one is fine and has different difficulty settings so you can make it too easy or difficult 
 pending on your preference.
  My main complaint is the game of the week has to be played straight thru (no saving allowed) . I 
 suspect this is to stop hackers from cheating by editing saved games - Sheez I really could care 
 I just want to be able to save a game and have fun I don't care if a cheater gets on the leaderboards.
 
  I particularly like how the cities are much easier to run/maintain. I also enjoy how easy it is 
 to see and get a sense for your progress towards the different victories. I also love how pending 
 on the game each victory condition seems attainable at different time on different games - you 
 certainly are less likely, than in the past, to always focus on a specific victory condition to 
 win. I love how the ships now really let you load up troops, much easier this way.
  I thought I'd really hate the more simplistic/faster play of this game, but it's still very addictive 
 and fun as always. I wouldn't have thought a Civ lite could be Civilization but they pulled it 
 off, congratulations Firaxis and Thank You!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdxermacx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  This game used to be a PC Game but the transfer was nice. They dumbed it down to make games quicker. 
 The best part is the multiplayer. If you have freinds with the game this game will be your new 
 primary. First it may seem confusing (i thought it was easy but had to teach my freinds how to 
 play which took a while) But after a few games you learn it. The single player isnt that good but 
 its good to get better all you have to do is start going up. (Yes im awsome i beat it on Deity 
 Hardest difficulty) . There is a few techinical issues it is very annying. Some times the screen gos 
 all white when you go from spacestaion. Other then the bugs the game holds up pretty nicely. The 
 thing i did was just rent it . And since i dont really want to write anymore so im just gonna do 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shorty_26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is the best TBS game out to date, it has plenty of things that give you 
 the feel for the game especially for new users without overwhelming them with too much things to 
 do like the PC versions. This game is packed with thousands hours of fun, this game has lots of 
 re-playability, and is extremely addictive and will have you saying "Just one more turn" This game 
 has some great graphics although the advisers can get annoying because they pop up almost every 
 turn also this game could of also used a couple of more customization such as map sizes and more 
 civilizations in game. This game has a new mode called Game of the Week, in this mode you play 
 online a preset map with a preset civilization and try to beat the game with the fastes time so 
 that you can make the top of the leaderboards. This game is great although i have to admit that 
 some matches online can be bad but not really because of the game but because of some user who 
 take the whole 60 seconds they give you to make your turn and this can sometimes become frustrating 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricky-Wagner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  All i have to say is that this game blew me away aaaaaaaaa its so aaweeesssooommee you have to 
 buuuuyyyyy ittttttttt uunlesss yoour rrrretardedddd aaaaaaaaaaaa insaaannnee a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a buy it now or be square! a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 aa a a a a a a a a a its totally revolutionary and absolutely mind bogglingly electrifying please 
 buy it now!!!! you will spend hundreds of hours locked up in your basement and youll end up looking 
 like golem and instead of the ring, the game will be your precious and you wont talk to anyone 
 ever again because its amazing and craazyyyy aaaaaaaaaaaaa drive down to eb games and give them 
 1000000 dollars for this game because thats what its worth and you wont even be wasting any money, 
 even if you need to sell your house and live in a cave and play this game the rest of your life 
 living off of spiders and fish from the river a few kilometers away. Or even turn into a cat lady 
 and play this game with your cats all day because thats the only company you will need because 
 you will be so occupied with this gaaaammmeeee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detrek77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  if you havent played a civilization game your not gonna like this at first. Your probaly used to 
 games like c&c and star craft. At first you will think wow this is very kiddish but really its 
 not once you build ( and really stop saying theres not custimization) , make wonders, units, and 
 especially research technology. People in this era are very big critics and they never give a game 
 a chance they pop it in play for a minute and say omg its not fun off the bat. Of course its not 
 it takes a game or two to at least get better. Oh but really i know half of the world doesnt like 
 it cause their obsessed with strictly killing, shooting, weapons, ect. I mean who doesnt love that 
 besides a few select people no ones cares about. But back on topic, by playing this game your gonna 
 get more of a clue on great leaders, wonders, technologies. The graphics are good, the game play 
 is solid, and 4 alternate ways to win the game. People say this game is really short, well no..... how 
 long does it take you to win a game and yes the answer is a little while unless you dominate in 
 the begining. So overall its gonna take you a week or so to finish. But you have your a opinion 
 so hate the game if you want but your gonna regret not even giving it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I am looking foward to the replay and to multiplayer mode, but the story mode was over in a matter 
 of hours. I started at 10:30pm... its now 1:50am and I am done!
  I think the game is a little on the easy side. The graphics are fine and the advisors are funny.... but 
 the real deal here is to build up your military and attack other rulers.. The Russian ruler was 
 ... nice ;-)
  Eliminate them all!. 
  One problem I have in this game is that they do not let you totally destroy everyone because the 
 game ends befre that. What fun is that? Let me crush everyone first, then end the game!
  Whent you capture a city, remember to build walls right away! 
  I felt the game was worth $39.99 
 but not $59.99, so you may want to wait to get it used. I think the play is great, its fun but 
 its just too short. and easy!
  That being said, I expect that the replay value is pretty high, as you can start a fresh campane 
 and finish it in one sitting!
  
  I'll give it a 8.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinida
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  In Civilization Revolution (Civ Rev) , you will play as the leader of a country. Whether you're 
 the President, Queen, or Pharaoh. You will start with a city builder, each city builder may found 
 a new city. You will be playing on a map of different terrain, including hills, ocean, mountains, 
 etc.. The map is split into squares, and each square holds its own set of recourses. Civ Rev is 
 a turn based game, and units may only move a certain number of squares. Once you build your first 
 city, you will build your first unit. In time you will build a building, or a world wonder (like 
 the great pyramids) . Your civilization will grow from the Ancient Era in BC, all the way to beyond 
 today. Throughout this time, you will progress through the many sciences and their advantages to 
 your civilization. Civ Rev is a game of balance, it is important to balance your science, as well 
 as your production of armies. If you're not careful, other countries will take advantage of either 
 your lack of soldiers, or your backwards civlization.
  There are 4 different ways to win a round of Civ Rev. The first is a science victory, you will 
 achieve this victory through becoming the first civilization to reach space travel. Or, you may 
 want to achieve a economic victory, once your funds reach a certain level, you will be able to 
 build the world bank. There is also a cultural victory, if your people are sophisticated enough 
 you will be able to build the United Nations. The last way to achieve victory is total domination, 
 obtained by capturing all of your opponent civilization capitols. All four victory types are unique, 
 and challenging they will each require a carefully thoughtout strategy.
  
  
  You can choose your difficulty level in Civ Rev, and trust me your first time, you'll want to play 
 on easy. It's not the easiest game to pick up, although some argue that the console version has 
 been 'dumbed down'. Even so, for every game and each of the 16 different civilizations you may 
 choose from, you'll need your own strategy. Will you choose the Aztecs and go for a domination 
 victory? Or will you choose the Spanish and go for the economic victory? It's interesting how there 
 are so many different strategies and approaches to each and every game. Each game should last you 
 anywhere between 2-4 hours, much shorter than the PC versions ever took. This is not a bad thing, 
 it just simply takes you less time to move onto the next era because you don't need to research 
 as much as the PC versions required.
  
  The graphics in Civ Rev are great. It is not the intention of the game developers to be a realistic 
 looking game, but it is easy to see the vision that the developers had. The graphics may be described 
 as 'smooth' . There are no rough edges that ruin the fluidity of Civ Rev. Cannons will shoot round 
 blows of smoke, and will be launched back an inch on your screen from each shot. Once an archer 
 wins a victory some of them will shoot their arrows in the sky and they will turn into fireworks. 
 It's the simple things that make the graphics so great in Civ Rev.
  
  
  Gameplay is like I said before, arguable 'dumbed down' from the PC version of Civlilization. You 
 can still do a lot of the cool things such as change government type from Communism to Democracy 
 or Republic, or Monarchy, or etc. You can still declare war, and you can still trade knowledge 
 for money. Even so, you unfortunately cannot access some of the convenient diplomacy options that 
 the PC version offered. Features such as right of passage, this would give your troops the ability 
 to pass through another civilizations land, unfortunately without this feature your units might 
 get cut off from your land, and may become trapped. You also might feel that civilizations only 
 go to war with you. Other civilizations don't attack eachother, making it easy to feel like it 
 is 4 on 1. There is no option for you to persuade a civilization to go to war with another civilization 
 with you. Even though some of the diplomacy options are limited, the rest of the games features 
 are very easy to manage. Accessing units and buildings is very easy, and the turn based system 
 gives you plenty of time to perfect each turn to its fullest. There are a lot of ups and downs 
 to the gameplay in Civ Rev, because the game is simple it makes it very managable on the console, 
 but also can become frustrating.
  
  In Civ Rev you will be able to form armies with units, if you obtain 3 of the same units, put them 
 on the same square, you can form an army which is much more powerful than attacking/defending with 
 one at a time, a very helpful feature. Your units will have 2 different stats, attack and defense. 
 Some units will be better at attacking, others at defending. Each city will be able to build 1 
 production at a time, whether it's a building or a unit, they will all cost different amounts of 
 production.
  
  
  The sounds in Civ Rev are funny, warriors sound like grunts, and the occasional 'woohoo' after 
 a victory makes you feel warm inside. Things like moving through water, or moving an army of troops 
 sound convincing, as well as the sound of clashing metal. Throughout the game you will have 'advisors' 
 who will give you advice on what to do next or keep you updated on your civilizations status. Although 
 they won't say any real words, they sound like the Sims, which adds some more humor to the game.
 
  
  Civ Rev is fun, but doesn't last very long. The games are short, which makes it a little tedius 
 to start over and over and over. It was nicer in the PC when games took you more than 3 sittings. 
 You couldn't sit down and finish a game. The longevity was disrupted a little bit because you lose 
 your connection to your civilization. But, it is amazing that Civ Rev can be so mesmorizing that 
 you will want to sit down for 2-4 hours to play out your civilization, the game is very addicting. 
 If you're on the fence of buying or renting this game, rent it first.
  
  Civ Rev is an awesome game, you'll be sucked right into the gameplay, and become addicted to it's 
 unique turn based sty. le Civ Rev is a game that everyone should try simply because you're put in 
 the position of controlling nations, sometimes when I play America I think I could do a better 
 job than the guy sleeping in the White House. You'll love the simplicity of Civ Rev, but may also 
 become frustrated with the limitations. If you've ever played the PC versions of Civilization, 
 I would definitely not box out the console version: Civilization Revolution.
  
  8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xt3kn1x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Can I first start off by saying that I love the Civilization series? I love the Civilization series. 
 Since the very first Civilization, I was addicted. Endless possibilities of open combat, diplomacy, 
 and cultural advancements intertwined with strategy makes a game that is truly historic. And to 
 make a series of games based on that historic prevalence is truly fascinating.
  
  Now enter the latest installment: Revolution for consoles. Finally, one for those of us who got 
 tired of loading our old games onto PC's who have endured re-format after re-format. Choose from 
 one of 16 different nations and fight your way to global victory through war, diplomacy, or research. 
 The game has the same basic concepts as its predecessors. Advance beyond your opponents or dominate 
 them into submission until victory is achieved. However, beyond that it lacks a certain level of 
 stratagem that was prevalent in the previous installments.
  
  Playing through 3 different cultures left me feeling in anticipation of exactly what my AI opponents 
 were going to do. In addition, once you gain the upper hand, it is very hard to lose. The closer 
 you get to winning the game, the more the computer likes to send its lackeys to stop you. However, 
 with simple preparations they are easily thwarted. And if you have a zerg-like play style domination 
 is quite simple with the right cultures. While I have not done it, I have seen several people beat 
 the game prior to 2500B. C. - which isn't even into the medieval ages. 
  
  However, if you play the game as intended, it is actually quite fun. And for first timers to Civilization, 
 this is a great way to learn about the game without being overwhelmed by the extreme detail of 
 the previous games. While I am certain it will be quite some time for Sid Meyer to produce a Civilization 
 for consoles, I do hope he brews up a more creative installment next time incorporating more skillful 
 tactics.
  
  The game does tend to get old (as do all games) after you play through a few times. However, I 
 am certain that this one will not collect as much dust as some of my other games. Despite some 
 of the "cheesy" tactics you can employ to win this game, playing as intended does provide some 
 challenge and is definitely a unique experience every time you play. This game is definitely not 
 for the renter to get a "feel" for it. If you do rent this, make sure it does not have to be back 
 by any certain date. This requires some time and patience if you've never played before. I definitely 
 recommend this to any strategy or historical buff.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is possibly one of the best strategy games out now for the 360, Civilization Revolution 
 delivers the goods with amazing graphics, and sound.
  There really is no story to the game, all you really do in this game is pick a leader of your choice 
 from the menu, and you lead you civilization through the stone ages-up until present time. Along 
 the way you will be picking different forms of government, army soilders, and technology. You can 
 also pick to negotiate between different civilizations, some civilizations will cooperate with 
 you in trading, and some will just want to pick a war with you.
  I found the control scheme to be pretty good, in comparison to trying to make it work for a system 
 instead of the computer.
  The only downfall I found in this game, has to be the fact that this game lags a little whenever 
 you are trying to rule the world (which can get very frustrating) .
  Overall I would recommend this game to anyone who is bored of playing the same strategy game over 
 and over again, and I would tell them to go out and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaladinJoo
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Long held as a stalwart on the PC, Sid Meier's long-running Civilization series has never had a 
 true and faithful built for consoles version. That is *dramatic pause* until now! Yes, built from 
 the ground up, Firaxis and it's head man Sid Meier bring to PS3 and Xbox 360 the incredibly stream-lined 
 Civilization Revolution. Though fans of the PC games may not see much reason to delve into a seemingly 
 stripped down version of the complex series, those who have never played a Civ game, or those just 
 looking for a fun and fast-playing strategy game would do good to throw their support behind this 
 revolution.
  
  In a nutshell, think of the Civilization as a very complex tabletop board game. There is no true 
 campaign for single-player, but each "game" is considered a random conflict in and of itself. Other 
 than that, one player options include a list of scenarios or the "Game of the Week", a specially 
 designed map that will post your results on a Firaxis leader board to show your mastery of the 
 game to all who will dare look. There are also online matches that pit four Civ players against 
 one another on a randomized map, but these seem to suffer from some of the "long deliberations" 
 that can come with this type of turn-based strategy game. Though the single-player may seem a bit 
 stunted, it begs to be played again and again. The strength of this franchise seems to be, and 
 continues to be, it's addicting gameplay.
  
  Like was mentioned before, the gameplay revolves around a turn-based almost board game-like style 
 of play. You'll begin each map choosing one of 16 "Civs" to play as, each with unique talents and 
 units to help you on your way to one of the game's four methods of victory. Once in the game, you'll 
 be taking turns building cities, forming armies, attacking/negotiating with other Civs, developing 
 technology, and basically doing anything that'll move your chosen Civ towards a victory against 
 the others inhabiting the map. This can be done Technologically buy building a space vessel to 
 find the world of Alpha Centauri, Culturally by gathering 20 great people, converted cities, and 
 World Wonders and building the UN, Domination-wise by simply capturing all the other Civs capitals, 
 and Economically by gathering 20,000 in gold revenues and building the World Bank.
  
  
  
  With all these options for victory and the different Civs to play as, the game might have a 
 boost in replay value, but it also has a considerable learning curve for those unfamiliar with 
 this type of gameplay. It's nothing too severe, and certainly this is the easiest Civ game available. 
 Still, it is there, and it can turn off some gamers before they even get into the good meat of 
 the game.
  
  As for the visuals, the cartoonish style definitely makes up for the lack of polygons here and 
 there. Leaders and advisors that pop into the foreground during gameplay are nicely detailed and 
 animate great, and the troop battles and city building are definitely a joy to watch, but a few 
 textures here and there seem to be poorly detailed, especially on the map itself. The vibrant colors 
 used certainly help mask it a bit, but for the most part, some of the mountains and unique map 
 resources could have used a bit more detail.
  
  As for the sound design, the score used within is definitely fun, simple, yet manages to be stirring 
 and complex in places. It's certainly the highlight of the sound design, along with battle effects. 
 However, something that's a love it or hate it issue is the "babble" that both advisors and leaders 
 speak. I find it personally amusing, but others might think otherwise.
  
  Civ Rev isn't a game that'll appeal to all audiences, which might be the reason that it hasn't 
 been on consoles in so long. However, if you've ever wanted to run one of the great Civs from the 
 stone age to the space age and clash in some strategic warfare, Civilization Revolution might be 
 right up alley. *8.0*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: InuHanyou1701
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start out by saying that I have never been a fan of the Civilizations games. Until 
 now. Folks don't listen to the negative reviews. If you set your expectations too high, you're 
 going to be disappointed. That's a fact of life. The game is amazing. I don't give it a 10 because 
 of some minor flaws in the gameplay, as well as some technical issues that seem to have yet to 
 be ironed out. I'll get the negative out of the way first.
  
  I only really have a few gripes about this game. First of all is the technical problem people have 
 been reporting in their reviews. From time to time the game will lag and freeze for a few moments. 
 While this is not such a big deal that I would tell you not to buy the game, it can be quite annoying. 
 But the positive thing is that this can easily be fixed with a patch. That does it for the technical 
 issues. =P The only other negative things I have to say about this game are so minor, you'll probably 
 just roll your eyes when you read them. First of all, you have a bunch of advisors (No I'm not 
 going to say they are annoying. I find them quite humorous and charming) who help you out throughout 
 the game. For each of the civilizations, the characters are the same. (Like I said. Ridiculously 
 minor) I think it would have been nice to add some variety in there and put in different characters 
 for different cultures. Heck even changing their clothes to reflect their culture would have been 
 nice! The second minor gripe I have is that you can only fire a nuke once per game. Come on! Some 
 of you more "mature" gamers will moer than likely find the advisors very annoying. I will warn 
 you of that. The only thing really that I can complain about is the lack of variety among the models. 
 Other than that, there's really nothing that comes to mind. You've probably seen people complain 
 that it is short and that it only takes it a few more turns beyond the demo. THIS IS NOT TRUE! 
 If you rush through the game and defeat every single culture as fast as you can, of COURSE it's 
 going to be short. Spread it out, take your time, ENJOY yourself. It's not about owning all of 
 the enemy cultures as fast as you can. This is why there are 4 ways to win the game. Oh one other 
 thing I can think of is that there isn't a space area of the game other than building your starship 
 and sending it to Alpha Centauri. It would have been nice if they had added a second part where 
 your culture explores space. Also, it would be nice to combine your armies into even larger armies. 
 3 of the same unit, an army does not make. It would also be nice for them to put the ability to 
 form a peace treaty with open borders back into the game. Without it, your units can become trapped 
 on the other side of the map which is REALLY annoying. I've also been playing a little longer now 
 and have discovered that the game is actually, still capped. Whenever you get about 100 turns into 
 the Modern Era the game times out and says "The game will end in 5 turns. Whoever has the highest 
 score will be awarded a Domination victory". This is VERY annoying and is the reason my score for 
 this game dropped from a 9.5 to an 8.0. I have checked the Civ Rev forums and 2k is not only vehemently 
 saying that they will not at least make this cap an option, but they are locking any threads created 
 that complain about it. VERY bad move by the developer, not listening to the requests of the consumer. 
 That's going to hurt them! That's really all the negative.
  
  The positives are what make this game shine, obviously. The graphics, compared to the other Civilizations 
 games, are AMAZING. People if you compare this game to something like Crysis, graphically, duh 
 it's going to look like crap! It's really not fair to be so harsh on the graphics in this game. 
 The game is MUCH easier for newcomers. However, the difficulty can be ramped up for the more experienced 
 players who are looking for a challenge. The controls for the game just feel right and it really 
 doesn't take alot of time to get a feel for them. And there's nothing like the feeling you get 
 when you're wiping out your rival factions' empires. There are so many different civilizations 
 to choose from, I don't even know where to begin. And there's really nothing more amusing than 
 seeing the American's choose a Monarchy for their government. =P The addition of the Xbox Live 
 camera for Multiplayer (Though i have yet to play Multiplayer) is a great asset. There are already 
 too few games with this in it. And of course, I have to say, this game will have you on the edge 
 of your seat saying "Just one more turn... just one more turn...". I have a hard time putting down 
 this game, it's just that addicting. 
  
  Overall, you'll thoroughly enjoy this game. If you're nervous about it, rent it first. I don't 
 think you'll be disappointed. =P Unless you have your sights set too high that is. Take it easy! 
 Game on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJRiga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I've been a long time Civ player, starting with the initial Civilization on the PC and moving my 
 way up through the various incarnations that have been released. With a few notable exceptions, 
 Civilization over the years has consistently yielded an extremely addictive "just one more turn" 
 experience that is incredibly fun, challenging, and even somewhat ("gasp") educational.
  Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution is a very worthy addition to the Civ universe. I would highly 
 recommend this for new and old players alike. While there will be those who will undoubtedly complain 
 about some of the missing features, capabilities, and options, I felt that what was missing didn't 
 detract from the gameplay in any appreciable manner. The game still delivers on the "just one more 
 turn" experience with all the thrill and satisfaction that comes from building your civilization 
 through history.
  Civilization Revolution gives you 4 ways to achieve victory: Economic, Cultural, Technological, 
 and Military. Most long-time Civ players will recognize these and know how to proceed towards them. 
 New players will be given lots of guidance from the host of advisers the player has until they 
 reach a point where they're comfortable and then they can reduce the hints. The intuitive interface 
 was well designed and allows the user to navigate through a fairly comprehensive amount of information 
 using the controllers.
  The only real complaints I had were the occasional stutters and the occasional desire to dismiss 
 the advisers. The game, overall, rendered quite well and was very pleasant to look at, but would 
 sometimes stutter when first displaying some of my larger cities (e. g. after viewing the spaceship 
 display) . The advisers were unobtrusive and didn't slow game play appreciably, but there were times, 
 particularly later in a game, when I wanted to blow through several turns waiting for something 
 to complete and at those times, I found the advisers a hindrance.
  Civilization Revolution went well beyond my original expectations and has all of the flavor of 
 the earlier Civs that I was hoping for. This is a must buy for any Civ fan as well as those looking 
 to try Civilization out. As for me, it looks like I'll be spending more late nights playing just 
 one more turn... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood-Angelas
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I was expexting a much more extensive and intensive game play with much more historicly active 
 racial outlines and storyline. I also expected a campaign of sorts and some kind of playable online 
 mission but it was not to be. It was quite a good play experiance but there was very variable changes 
 in the difficulty levels and the computer i expected to act like the race it was contrloling in 
 some way but i was only slightly dissapointed to learn this was not the case. If another game in 
 the series was brought out i think that both the designers and programmers need to do alot more 
 work than they have already. The Game its self is very easy and i managed to get most of the gamer 
 points in the first three days and i got quite bored after that other people i spoke to about the 
 game felt the same way about the game and they also agree that the game should be repeated without 
 major alteration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheepdog1744
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Oh, how I tried to love this game. Unfortunately, it was not to be. Keep in mind, i'm no noob when 
 it comes to the genre. I've been playing RTSs since SimCity on the Super Nintendo. This game is 
 broken. I'm sorry. Maybe I'm just bad at it, but it was about zero fun. I was playing on the second 
 easiest difficulty and still couldn't win. I get the concept that just because your attack is higher 
 that the enemy's defense (or vice-versa) doesn't mean you WILL win, but come on. I lost three battles 
 in a row I should have won easily and whaddya know, it allowed them to take my city. Give me a 
 break. What is the point of a peace treaty with someone if they will just spontaneously attack 
 you without provocation? At least build in a penalty (25% attack handicap for instance) for attacking 
 someone you have an alliance with. It's ridiculous. On top of that, the game froze on me three 
 times. It was a noble effort, but an epic fail. Keep these games on the PC where they belong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnygopher123
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Finally my computer can get a break. If you've been wondering weather to get rid of Civilization 
 and get it for Xbox, you've picked the right time.
  
  
 
  
  
  GRAPHICS --- Overall they have skyrocketed. The battles are much more interesting to watch, along 
 with the way the cities look. If you have an HDTV you will be in shock (Guarantee it!) 
  
  GAME PLAY --- They really upped the stakes with Revolution. They made it so that the battles are 
 a lot more enjoyable. You can now make an army of three of the same types of units and make your 
 forces even stronger. When your soldiers are defending an open area, they start to dig in after 
 a while! These are some of the many game-play improvements that they have come up with.
  
  SOUND --- Nothing Special 
  
  
 
  Diplomacy Options aren't as influential as the PC version.
  
  Seems way to fast, I was in the modern age (1700) when the Aztecs most powerful unit was the catapult!
 
  
  
  
  I personally would give this game a solid 9/10
  
  Why? I though it was almost but not quite, 
 meaning that even with solid game-play, you still can negotiate dollars and cents with your allies/ 
 enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleanslate1982
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 16, 2008 7:09 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution is one of the most immersive games I've ever played. I was 
 immediately sucked into micromanaging all my cities to win the technological, cultural, arms, or 
 economic races. I have to be honest with you, nothing felt sweeter than mowing over my my rival 
 civilizations with superior weapons for a domination victory.
  
  While highly fun and addictive this game still has it's flaws. I uncovered quite a few technical 
 issues with this game. For starters, if you ever notice one of your units has gone ghost (invisible) , 
 combat is going to get really funky. Usually what happens is the battle animations freeze, while 
 characters levitate all over the place and you won't see anyone winning, fighting, or dying. After 
 an extended period of time, the fight will eventually end and you'll know who won simply by observing 
 who's unit is still standing. There is another issue with combat, and that is if it says advantage, 
 it doesn't always mean you will win. I have learned that battling an army of tanks vs. an army 
 of rifleman favors the rifleman. Even though the tanks' attack is alot higher than the riflemans' 
 defense. If the rifleman are fortified in a city with a wall, you still can manage an advantage, 
 but you will still, in all probability, lose. Many people will get frustrated that aerial attacks 
 are severely underpowered, to the point that a wing of fighters can get swat down by an army of 
 pikeman. It gets to the point where strategy and tactics don't mean a thing, and you'll have to 
 rely on how massive your army is at times. 
  
  Another issue I had was with gap between difficulties. Chieftain and Warlord difficulties are a 
 cakewalk; while King, Emperor, and Deity difficulties are virtual suicide missions. You see, starting 
 on KIng, you lose your combat advantage. That's understandable. However, your neighbors seem to 
 overwhelm you completely with technology and pinning you down with their armies. Before you can 
 make a settler unit, they can have as many as 2-3 cities all along your borders. This wouldn't 
 be so bad if you didn't lose 2 population for every settler unit (you get one free unit for reaching 
 the 100 gold economic milestone) , and you'll only lose one as a republic. Here's the real kicker 
 though, if the Japanese are in your scenario, you might as well restart your game on those higher 
 difficulties; because they will be in space way before anyone else and way before you can manage 
 to overtake their capital with military force to prevent their win. 
  
  How come it's so hard to catch up? Well it's for a couple of reasons:
  1. The computer civilizations 
 never fight each other (I've seen them fight once on the lower difficulties)
  2. The computer civilizations trade with each other technologies, given them two technologies for 
 every one you learn.
  3. Diplomacy is completely onesided. You can't demand gold, technologies, or handing over great 
 people from your neighboring civilizations to avoid war. Sometimes you will go to the diplomacy 
 screen and they'll ask for peace and you can say ok for some random offering. Most of the time, 
 99% of the time, they will continue to make the demands. Even if you are more powerful and kicking 
 their behind.
  4. Computer constantly will extort you, which will force you into a constant state of war and often 
 fighting 4 other civilizations. If you are less technologically advanced they will demand technologies 
 from you. If you are super-powerful they will march up with sticks against your guns and demand 
 super technologies.
  
  This game is all about war. If you can't dominate another civilization early on and get them on 
 their heels you will have little-to-no shot at a victory. Like monopoly, you need to grab land 
 fast and settle it. No one strategy is fool proof in this game, because every civilization has 
 diffierent strengths, weaknesses, and playing styles. The more civilizations there are to compete 
 against, the lesser your odds of winning. It's not 1 vs. 1 vs. 1 vs. 1 vs. 1, it's always you vs. 
 4. If you don't dominate someone, you will have little-to-no chance at achieving any of the four 
 types of victories. In fact, I suggest if you have a good game going, save and dominate as much 
 as possible. When you are close to a domination victory, save. Then build the U. N. for the cultural 
 victory. Get the acheivement points, and reload that save and build the World Bank for the economic 
 victory achievement, reload and build a space station (you only need one of each, more propulsion 
 and you'll arrive faster) , and reload a final time to complete the domination victory. I did that 
 on King with the Mongolians. Deity is more difficult because the other nations only want to fight 
 and are always light years ahead in technology. You can't ever remain peaceful and build yourself 
 up quietly, they will always extort you and attack you. 
  
  This game, as you can tell is quite challenging. Many people will enjoy that. However, some people 
 will find the medium and higher difficulties cheap, rather than challenging, and will settle for 
 playing the ridiculously easy lower difficulties of Warlord or Cheiftain. Some of those will find 
 that to be no challenge and get extremely frustrated that these two are way too easy and the other 
 three seem impossible. So if you thrive for serious challenges, this game will test your mettle 
 and you will love it for a long time. If you want a game that's challenging, but the goals seem 
 readily attainable without a lot of super strategies and tactics you might have fun for a while, 
 but be overcome with frustration after numerous failed attempts.
  
  I love this game, and it could have been so much more. Tech flaws I can live with, but if they 
 made diplomacy more two-sided it would have been perfect, if not ground breaking. This game has 
 the replayability to be worth a purchase; however I suggest renting and deciding to keep it (you 
 can do that with gamefly. com) later if you find yourself completely involved with this game. It 
 gets an 8 out of ten because of the tech flaws and the one-sidedness of the diplomacy aspect.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meeyeam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Civ series for a long time.... in fact, Civ 1 was the first game that I owned 
 for PC back in the day.
  
  They've always managed to add something new, be it the wonder movies, better diplomacy options, 
 religion or Spock. Every Civ game has been a must purchase for me.
  
  This was the first Civ game where I felt that they just didn't add enough to it to make it better 
 than its predecessor. From the little things which are difficult to ignore (like not having a world 
 map option) to some items which took a major backstep from Civ 4 (the wonder movies... seriously, 
 they were best done in Civ 2, this was the chance to bring them back in full glory!) .
  
  Since the games are much shorter, a story based campaign couldn't have hurt - and would give other 
 options for gamer points. Some of the achievements are insane!!
  
  The game of the week is a great feature, and I'm hoping to see some skins / option packs like from 
 Civ 2 onward - is it too much to maybe even ask for a unit editor in a patch?
  
  It's impossible to really see everything there is to see in a Civ game with just a rental, but 
 for those who are hooked on Civ 3-4, it might be better to just hold off a couple years until Sid 
 decides to make Civ 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmyghiorzi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game is ok. Others are right it seems like the options where a bit too limited. I love using 
 the nuke awesome, but why do you only get one, and it belongs to the civ that builds the Manhattan 
 wonder? I was a little disappointed by the lack of units, diplomacy seems a lot like civ 2, either 
 your fighting or the other civ is threatening you (basically because of lack of land space as another 
 reviewer pointed out.) It's pretty easy to get a domination victory. The battles are cool, the 
 only thing is I like to point out that they really, really need to work on realism, one time a 
 pike man army took out one of my bombers (which was by itself) , granted the pike man got triple 
 points for being an army but what the heck did they do throw their pikes 10,000+ feet lol? Music 
 is ok, speech can get annoying as others have pointed out, but the adviser antics usually make 
 up for this.
  
  Hopefully they will come out with an update to add content, techs, and options? :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macual
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Man, I am totally addicted to this game.. I have played it everyday and I don't have any preconcieved 
 ideas on how the game should be played. I don't understand people that get games for different 
 systems anyway... If you have it for the PC enjoy it..
  
  Playing on King level is the furthest I have gotten. And it takes me hours to get the win... I 
 still haven't been able to get to AlphaC. All in all for a strategy game, I love the AI.. They 
 are always attack you and make you work for every piece of land. So you just can't walk over your 
 oppenents. All in all a very enjoyable game. If you like strategy games and haven't played the 
 PC version.
  
  Trying to win with different cultures is what makes this game so fun.. I have had the easiest time 
 winning with the americans. And the hardest time winning with the arabic culture... 
  
  Great graphics. Great AI. Great game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j5r9s2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:54 am PT
Review:  okay first off by saying, wow. This game will rock your socks off. I saw the video for this game 
 and my first thought was, this game has the makings to be a decent game but not a great game. So 
 i was going to the online store and saw the free demo, I was bored so I downloaded it. played the 
 demo for about 6 hours, it was that good. woke up and bought the game. Ive been playing non stop 
 every since. With that said I guess i will review it, Now you know how much I like it... this game 
 has kinda PC feel but better. there 4 ways to win. I wont spoil that part for you though. You have 
 to build cities, armies, and technology all the while there are other countries doing the same. 
 You can go to war or you can make peace, up to you. During war, if youve found the technology you 
 can fight with arrows, swords, guns, planes, catipults, boats, there is even a Nuclear bomb. all 
 depends on how you play the game. My outcome is never the same, I never finish with the same scenario. 
 Hope you play it, it is a fresh change in pace for console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodEagle2142
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Rev is a game that once you understand the basics it's easy to play. The game has enough factions 
 to keep you busy with and the achievements aren't all that hard to get. The choose able factions 
 have bonuses that differ from others. These bonuses can change your play style quite a bit. There 
 are no exclusive anything's to one faction which can be disappointing. The game features several 
 scenarios that or fun. and sometimes just there. The map isn't that hard to navigate however sometimes 
 the overall navigation can be annoying. The avatars that help you/inform you can be humorous sometimes 
 or very bothersome. There are a few awkward technical problems like invisible enemies during battle 
 scenes and favored odds where you lose (vice versa) . Overall the game is not that hard depending 
 on the difficulty but the game can keep you thinking on most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursiveSaturn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is truely a great and addictive game. Its a game that when you play is 
 for a little you just cant stop playing it untill youve beat it everyway possible! The graphics 
 of the game are beautiful and well animated. The Leaders voices can get annyoing to some but are 
 in good quality and are graphically beautiful. The complicity of the game has been dropped down 
 a bit from the older versions but still retain the entertainment of the game and allow new players 
 to get into the game quickly. The units in the game are well made and detailed and the online in 
 the game is pretty good. Although the online can take some time it is alot of fun and is even more 
 fun with friends! All maps and randomly made each time and can be a tad bit small at time but are 
 nevertheless fun. This game is a must buy for any Civ fan and many new players can enjoy this game 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vorcoth
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Whoa! It's rare that I disagree with one of GameSpot's reviews, but I have to veer well away from 
 them on this one. I tried as hard as I could not to let my experience with Civ4 on the PC cloud 
 my review of this game, but it's just far and beyond way better than this disappointing console 
 port.
  
  Gameplay Positives: Hurray for turn-based strategy! Very easy to pick up and jump into. Solid mechanics 
 and integration of exploration/resources/warfare. The diplomatic options are very well executed. 
 The civilopedia is nice addition as well and feels like a special feature.
  
  Gameplay Negatives: No customization options. This is just unforgivable. The ability to reduce 
 the amount of water areas/increase the landmass in the game, and reduce the number of AI opponents 
 is a serious drawback. As a result, there is usually just enough space to build a couple cities 
 before you're surrounded by opposing civilizations, have no where to move/explore, forced to explore 
 nothing but the vast surrounding oceans.
  
  Graphics Positives: Excellent graphics. The water effects, lighting, fog of war, uniqueness of 
 each nation's units, etc. is very good.
  
  Graphics Negatives: For a tbs, not many negatives here at all.
  
  Sound Positives: Amusing 
 to see them go with a Sims-esque language for the voiceovers, with each nation having a unique 
 flare to make them sound Russian or French, etc. The background music and other sound effects enhance 
 the gameplay nicely
  
  Sound Negatives: The Sims-style speech can get a little annoying.
  
  Overall: The graphics are way better, but this game is outclassed by Civ4 for the PC in every 
 other way - most importantly gameplay and customization options.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake9123
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  i a fan of stratigy games expecially when it come to adavning throgh time such as rise of nations, 
 empire earth, and civ.
  
  now civ rev is a pice of crap with dectfull looks. yes the grafix ande fighting are better but 
 its so fast and had very few tecks and units. examply i was playing with my friend and i for some 
 reason before i could build cannons i had tanks. and these are M1A1 tanks. i think i would at least 
 have a MK1 before an M1 expcially in year 1300 lol 
  
  if your wondering what I MEAN HERE YOU GO
  
  direct combat units
  
  infantry
  -warror
 
  -legion
  -pickmen
  -archer
  -rifleman
  -modern infanty
  
  
  "vehicles"
  -hoursemem
  -knight
  -tank
  -fighter
  -bomber
  
  ships
  -gallion 
  -newer gallion 
 or whatever
  -cruser
  -battleship
  SO AD YOU CAN SEE VERY FEW UNITS
  
  and you can only build one nuke and after that all you do is pour out tanks and bombers
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killthebrews19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  This is my first game review, so hopefully I don't mess it up. 
  
  I have long been a fan of the Civilization series on the computer so when I saw that it was coming 
 out on the Xbox 360 I was extremely excited. 
  
  I have only gotten to play the game for a few hours, but what I have seen so far is extremely impressive. 
 The graphics are beautiful, the game engine used is pretty solid; I have seen the game slow down 
 a couple times so far, which disappoints me, but only momentarily. I would definitely recommed 
 this game to Sid Meier fans. 
  
  For anyone who is not familiar with the Civilization Legacy, I would say this is a great way to 
 get into it! I am at work right now and I can't wait to get back home to play. The one thing I 
 will say to be careful with this game is that it is very addictive: so once you start, be ready 
 to dedicate some time to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nm15
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge civ fan from civ 3 & 4, so I was really excited to get this game. It is pretty good 
 if you want a faster game to play. This does a pretty good job of get rid of the micromanaging. 
 However, there were some things from the pc version that should have been brought over. To me the 
 biggest loss is upgrading obsolete units. It can be done only once in this game, and only if you 
 create build a particular Wonder. Also the game is pretty short, maybe 2-3hrs. If you get caught 
 up in a few wars, forget about an economic or space race victory. Also I've had the game lock up 
 on me quite a few times and this does not have autosaves like it's pc brothers.
  
  Good notes about the game is road building is easy and instantaneous, providing you have enough 
 gold. Workers are not needed at all. You don't have to keep troops in your cities to keep the citizens 
 from getting angry. The upgrade system for troops is pretty cool. I love Ninja Tanks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: km1498
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  Civilization revolution was on the edge of my radar back when it was first announced. I played 
 the previous PC versions of civilization games and didn't like them that much, but this one blew 
 me away.
  
  Civilization is a turn based strategy game where you try to build up a civilization from its very 
 beginnings to world domination. Along the way you try to make money, friends, and enemy's among 
 other things. There are 16 different civilizations you can play as and you will want to come back 
 to play as them all. Online play is also included with a few modes to choose from that should keep 
 you entertained. It can feel kinda slow going if you are like me and are use to playing online 
 First person shooters but you get use to the pacing after a few games. Although the graphics looks 
 kinda "cartoonish" I don't think the developers were going for that realistic look anyway, so they 
 look good along with the sound. 
  
  Overall I found this game to be a great and addictive strategy game, with no real serious flaws. 
 Definitely a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I knew as soon as I heard that Firaxis was making a Civ game for the 360 that I would struggle 
 to like it. Me, being a HUGE civilization fan, and played it way back in the 90's, I'm not to accustom 
 to change. Civilization Revolution is that change.
  Don't get me wrong, there is a lot right about this game, but as the saying goes, "if you can get 
 the real thing, why mess around with a fake". Revolution is to Civilization, as Sim City Society 
 is to Sim City, a lite weight, striped down version of a complex and deep game.
  This is one of those games that if you never played the real thing, then you may love the hell 
 out of this game, but if you have played the real thing, then I would probably suggest you stay 
 away from this.
  As far as the game goes, it's a beautiful crafted game, with a lot of color, but cartoony looking 
 cities, items in it. The worlds that you start off with are fairly small, and nothing close to 
 the sizes you can get in the real thing, but seem to fit well for a lite version of the game. You 
 get lots of help from advisors, and have a fairly simple and fast game play. There aren't many 
 options in the game and no customization that I could find, this is pure and simple a strip down, 
 get in and play style game that should suit many players that may not have had the honor of playing 
 the many Civilizations before this.
  You can't pull back much in the game, so the views are very low and small, you really never get 
 a real idea of the vastness of your map, as if Firaxis was scared to show you the real power of 
 the engine this game was built on, but you do get a fairly close to the action, and the city views 
 are well done if not a bit generic. 
  Over all I think this as a great game for a person that maybe just getting into strategy games, 
 but for a long time player like myself, I just didn't enjoy the game all that much. I'm also getting 
 really tire of EA trying to throw the damn Sim theme in their games every chance possible. I'm 
 so sick of hearing Sim Language I don't know what to do. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: One9
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  While not as complex as the past computer installments of the franchise, Revolution still has alot 
 to offer. A lot of the more complex tasks are taken out of the game. They took out City Management, 
 Worker Improvments, Religion, Scaled down Civics and the Tech tree, as well as sea combat, and 
 unit stacking. But even with all of that gone or scaled back, they manage to pull off a very polished 
 and still fun console version of the game. This version looks and feels more alive, and have features 
 of its own that you would want in the cpu version of civ as well.
  
  The graphics are amazing. The army creation is fun, and elite armies jus look cool. The interface 
 is a breeze to learn and could even work with the PC's Civ 4 even in all its complexity. The unit 
 fighting looks more alive and hectic.
  
  The biggest gripe I have with the game is that I want it to be what the PC Civs are, Complex and 
 Fun. None the less, it still is a very fun version of the game and worthy of any Civ fan and any 
 strategy game fan to pick up and play. There is still plenty in the game to do to make you lose 
 track of time.
  
  If you have been waiting to play a strategy game on your console I would definately suggest picking 
 this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_sauders
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  This console version of Civilization is great for those of us who love civilization but don't want 
 to lug our computers around with us everywhere we go. The animations and graphics aren't the highest 
 out there, but it's good enough to keep you amused enough to play along. Key features that are 
 missing in my mind are.... higher levels of diplomacy, resource trading, unless I just can't find 
 it the ability to upgrade an old unit to a new one with out Leonardo's Workshop, a select all units 
 command, and finally.... a just one more turn option.
  
  First we'll go with diplomacy. Diplomacy is one of the highly important aspects of all civilization 
 games. It allows people with different strategies to tweak their playing style. Yes it's great 
 to say "Hey I'll pay you to attack that guy", but the ability to make a deal of open borders then 
 break it is priceless civilization history. Additionally the ability to trade technologies without 
 the AI prompting you to sucks. Yes you can ask to buy a tech, and yes you can sell yours, but not 
 being able to swap this for that leaves out a fun part of the game.
  
  Diplomacy actually runs right into my next area: resource trading. Think about how many wars have 
 been fought over time for control over resources. In this version of Civilization you can't colonize 
 them, you can't trade them, after you play for a few minutes you hardly even remember they are 
 there. Worst yet, it shows from turn 1 exactly where these resources are on the map. It would be 
 a great addition to be able to swap resources from one civ to another, and a great reason to attack 
 another civ. There should be one spot on the map where a valuable resource is at that everyone 
 needs and game on, you've got to start thinking about wartime options.
  
  Ok the next one just makes me mad: upgrading units. Yes it's great that when a unit wins a battle 
 you can give it a upgraded power, but when you are in the modern age and you still have warriors 
 chilling around all they're doing is taking up space and slowing the game down. Ok so you can disband 
 the unit and get some gold, YAY THAT'S AWESOME, not. Who cares if you can get 40 gold out of a 
 old unit, by that late in the game your economy should be going strong? What about the fact that 
 my warrior is a unit that has a lot of experience, is a veteran with the ability to heal in enemy 
 land and has a stronger attack city value? It's cool i'll just delete him, besides old hero's never 
 die, they just fade into the past.
  
  Next up, selecting a stack of units, I'm keeping this one short. It's great that I can set a rally 
 point and click with my left thumb stick to send my unit there, but it gets old when you have a 
 lot of units that you want to send somewhere. Just give us a command that says, select all units 
 on tile, and I'll be happy.
  
  Last major complaint: Where the heck is the just one more turn option? The most sacred part of 
 civilization is being able to keep playing once you've already won. Yeah I won an economic victory 
 HURRAY, now I want to destroy them. Here's a fun little idea, after I when the diplomatic victory 
 and I'm chosen grand poo bah wouldn't it be fun to blow the hell out of everyone? Hmm, YES! Give 
 me back my just one more turn option. Seriously, it's not only disappointing that this was left 
 out, it really kind of ticks me off.
  
  Alright so there are my complaints. Yes I know this is on a console and these games aren't meant 
 to last forever like on the pc, but hey it'd be nice to be able to enable or disable these options. 
 The game is still a blast to play and I've already been playing it for hours, but hopefully the 
 design team will come through with a few updates or a download-able expansion for more leaders 
 and some fixes later on. 
  
  Oh yeah one more thing that needs to be fixed, yesterday I nuked some ru-skies and then when I 
 went to take their city, my adviser informed me I wasn't at war with them. I have to admit, that 
 did make me giggle a bit, but I think someone needs to fix that. Overall, A-, I love civ, and I 
 know this is a dumbed down version for a console, but there are some things you just can't leave 
 out. Thanks to the designers for another great civilization, keep pumping them out, I'll keep buying 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djessemoody
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this. I did not believe that I would enjoy civilization revolution. I have 
 been playing its PC counterparts for years now, and when the information for revolution being released 
 came out that it was a civilization-lite, I feared the worst.
  
  Still, I bought the game as soon as it came out. When I first started playing this game, I knew 
 that my fears were needless. This was not a civilization-lite, but a civilization for the working 
 man.
  
  Yes, the micromanagement is slightly lessened. But is the strategy really weakened? The answer 
 is no. In fact, since human play becomes more feasible (i never had time to spend 6 hours at one 
 time online, so in the other civs it was single player and save) , now my strategies are no longer 
 static. My game plan is constantly changing.
  
  Many have commented that the single player AI is overbearing. Yes, admittedly, that is true. However, 
 This is no longer the laid back civilization game of the past. These leaders force you to think 
 on your feet. And in the end, it helps keep the game moving.
  
  End the end, will this appease all hardcore civilization players? No. Will this thrill all civilization 
 newcomers no? However, if you go to it with a free mind you will find that it is a highly satisfying 
 experience and most will come to enjoy the gameplay, especially those with a short schedule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggamuffin
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Civilization revolution is indeed the best strategy game available for consoles to date, but unless 
 strategy games are the only games you ever enjoy and you somehow still bought a console then this 
 game is not for you. The basic controls are inflexible missing several options that would increase 
 ease of use, for example there is no way to simply end your turn, you have to press the red button 
 over and over again until you end your turn, granted this doesn't come up unless you're in a stand 
 off. That is related to the main problem though which is that there are 4 ways to win, economic, 
 cultural, scientific and military and the only one that you will ever use and have any enjoyment 
 with is the military option. It was obviously a decision because you could say "4 ways to win" 
 but if you actually get into a situation where it is possible to finish any of those modes you 
 will end up waiting a long time and keeping you units at your cities which is boring and stocking 
 up on units to develop culture will make you have to click through the endless list of units as 
 said before. This game would be better if there weren't even the option to win those ways and just 
 have culture, science and economy be major elements to help you take over with military might. 
 Pretty much everything in the game manages to have a stuttery element to it or a pause, or a screen 
 freeze. The controls are easy to get used to but you feel like you're a Napolean with a broken 
 hand and the other hand behind your back, they're just very annoying. Anyways final thought, the 
 basic problem here is that when you make a strategy game you either go all in or not. I know they 
 were trying to make it more accessible but I've personally never played a civilization game and 
 i am generally bad at strategy games and this game didn't change that, so there seems to be no 
 reason for dumbing it down and removing the deep gameplay. I would've enjoyed this game if It was 
 MORE complicated, making it less doesn't make it anymore accessible than it's ever been. Embarrassment 
 for strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidracer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  the only problem i had with this game is that is was to short and some times, maby it might take 
 me one hour to beat it or one day it all depends on where you start off. anyone could like this 
 game if u think this game is not for you just rent give it a shot maby you just might end up buying. 
 all in all i think this is a great game a fasho buy for me i hope is is the same way for you. i 
 give it a 10 because i think is just so great in every way i think 2k and who ever eles made it 
 really out done themselfs.
  
  
  
  
  one thing i really like about it is that all the people you can chose from, another thing i like 
 is how you allwas start off in different everytime you play this great game. the mutiplayer has 
 live up to what is should been no lag great wasy to have fun with your friends on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVinster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Civ Rev is the first game of the series that I have touched. From what I hear, this is a more stripped-down 
 version of the game, but just as addictive and fun. The reason for this is because it's on a console, 
 and what they do with the game is take away the more tedious processes while tuning the controls 
 making it easy for any strategy lover.
  
  Pros
  +Addictive and strategic.
  +Intuitive interface.
  +Charismatic leaders.
  +Interesting progression of civilizations.
 
  
  Cons
  -Your advisors speak annoying gibberish.
  -Slower paced, definitely not for everyone.
  -Riflemen can destroy fighter planes, granted this 
 is all based on stats.
  
  --------------
  Gameplay
  --------------
  
  As you may understand, the point of Civ Rev is to take a civilization from 1600 AD to the future. 
 You pick from one of the 16 leaders featuring famous and well-known names such as Lincoln for America 
 or Cleoptra for Egypt. Your goal is to win by achieving one of 4 possibilities: Economic, Cultural, 
 Domination, or Technology victories. When you begin the game you'll start off with a settler, choose 
 where to begin your first capitol, churn out a couple warriors and begin exploring and advancing. 
 You usually face off against 4 or so opponents, and whether you wish to make peace or war is entirely 
 up to you. Eventually you'll go through a few eras making ground, water, and even air units. 
 
  
  The fascinating thing is how they develop, you may start out with warriors using swords, but then 
 you will be using horsemen, riflemen, canons, battleships, submarines, all the way up to nukes. 
 As you develop your town it becomes asthetically beautiful, making for an interesting concept. 
 It's not surprising to see a Babylonian Garden in the same vicinity as a launch pad for rocketships.
 
  
  Another part of the strategy is how you interact with aides and leaders who will constantly annoy 
 you with mostly useless information (once you understand the game anyway) . Thankfully there are 
 5 different difficulties challenging you to a variety of extents, from Chieftan to Deity. There's 
 also a multiplayer addition, where you have 3 game modes to choose from (head to head, free for 
 all, team) .
  
  ----------------------
  Graphics/Sound
  ----------------------
  Graphics are bright, colorful and cartoony with a light-hearted sense of humor. All of the civilization 
 leaders are overdramatic in their features which makes it so different, and the cities look awesome 
 when you're nearing the end of the game and you have 25 buildings crammed into a single city. Sounds 
 of your aides is annoying, but you can turn off their gibberish.
  
  --------
  Value
  --------
  Civ Rev retails at $59.99. Depending on how you feel about strategy games, this can 
 give you quite a bit of replayability. On top of the regular games which last an hour and a half 
 to 2 and a half hours, there are a couple scenarios with pre-defined objectives. Then there are 
 the multiplayer modes, and of course achievements. If you are a bit iffy on this game, there's 
 a demo on the marketplace you can give a try since it has most of the features as the full game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zyllus_
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is the first of the series to be on consoles. Sid Meier has already proved 
 his worth with Pirates on the Xbox, but he really did it this time! Civilization Revolution is 
 like the pc versions, except made exclusively for the consoles. The graphics aren't bad, there 
 just not really next gen. But the playful graphics don't effect the amazingly addicting game play. 
 
  
  You have the choice of around 16 civilizations to be and control, ranging from Abe Lincoln with 
 America to Mohandas Gandhi with India. The game pits you as the leader of a civilization where 
 you must build you city or cities [depending on how you want to play the game] and become number 
 one and dominate all of your rival civilizations. There are 4 ways to beat the game, Domination, 
 Culture, Economic, and Technology. Domination is where you completely destroy all the other civilizations, 
 and there is no way they can win. Culture is where you build a certain amount of wonders or have 
 a certain amount of famous people that move to your city. Economic is where you start obtaining 
 a certain amount of money, and Technology is where you can send a rocket into space. All of these 
 are very possible to achieve on any difficulty, its just how well of a strategy you play them out.
 
  
  THE GOOD
  - Highly addicting.
  - Good variety of civilizations to choose from.
  - Multiple ways to win.
  - Massive armies
  - Many technologies to discover.
  - Building new 
 wonders is always exciting.
  - Challenging.
  - High replay value.
  - Map size is decent
  - Online multiplayer.
  
  THE BAD
  - Graphics could be better
  - 
 Not the best replay value
  - Needs more to build
  
  
  
  All in all Civilization Revolution is a true Civ game, just the graphics are not as next gen as 
 the new Civ game on pc. If your a fan of the series, you defiantly need to pick up this game. Or 
 if you want a fun, addicting, challenging, strategy game that is hard to put down... Then this is 
 for you too.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SylvanC94
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  I've been a long-time fan of Civilization on the computer, and I knew that this was going to be 
 a different experience. I had played the demo though, so I wasn't jumping blindly into this new 
 style of gameplay.
  
  They definitely nailed the console feel with this game. It doesn't feel dumbed-down, I would describe 
 it as optimized. A lot of the complexity has been taken out or pushed behind-the-scenes, so you 
 just focus on making strategic moves and out-witting your opponents.
  
  Although I haven't tried mutiplayer yet, the single player campaign provides enough variety and 
 depth that it hasn't gotten boring yet. It's fun to play as different civilizations and use different 
 strategies to win.
  
  The console controls work well, and I found that after one game, I had a real good handle on how 
 to use all the controls. There are only minor graphical slow-downs when the action gets intense. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon1978
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Even back when I got my 360 I hoped that the powers that be would move away from FPS and Role playing 
 to the strategy side of gaming With games like C&C3 and now this my wish has been granted as they 
 say and life is good.
  
  I have been waiting for this game for a long time ever since I read about the idea I have been 
 excited I love Civ, I have played them all since the beginning and they are deep and and just what 
 was looking for. I have read reviews and forum posts that say that this game is nothing like Civ 
 4 well duh its not supposed to be.
  Its light and quick and gives you just enough of a Civ fix if you only have a little amount of 
 time to play. Now that not to say that you won't get sucked in. Games can be longer if you want 
 to explore different aspects of the game. The Tech Victory for example when I played it it took 
 like 3 hours versus the 1.5 to 2 hours that it took to do a domination victory. It all depends 
 on your play style and what you want to get out of the game and with the DLC and live features 
 the replay possibilities are almost endless
  
  Yeah the graphics are cartooney and the sound sounds a little "simish" for my taste but it has 
 the "soul" of Civ weather your new to the series or an old vet like me I am sure you will find 
 something you will enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACESandElGHTS
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  With the possible exception of religions, they kept all the good stuff and ditched all the boring. 
 No more sending workers out to mine, build roads, cut wood, whatever. No more careful balancing 
 of taxation. No more _grinding_ just to get to the good part.
  Combat is very quick, and somewhat entertaining, with the animations being better and easily 300% 
 faster and more complex than Civ 4. Unit upgrades all tend to be useful. The game moves from 4000 
 BC or whatever into the 1900s AD before you know it, making for a faster, more intense game.
  I'm sort of bummed that there aren't the "safe passage" treaties that allowed you to explore the 
 world without starting wars. Doesn't seem to be any mutual protection pacts either. Also, negotiations 
 tend to be pretty close to "Give me your Great Person" or "Surrender 95% of your cash" or we'll 
 destroy you. You'll also find that once your civ is noticeably advanced you'll be pestered at least 
 every other turn by a civ threatening to go to war unless you surrender gunpowder or something.
 
  I know, I've already written more bad than good, but the good is this: Civ 3 and 4 was often dull 
 and took 10-20 hours just to complete, whereas Revolution is quick and fun and games can take 4-5 
 hours if you're pushing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxbababooeyxx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  What a great concept, strategy game for the 360 been waiting a long time for soemthing like this. 
 This game is just ok but there are some major flaws
  1. The game ends. what i mean is that when you get to the year 3000 it ends. most games you have 
 to conquer all the other players until it ends, not here. for some reason it only lets you go to 
 the year 3000. now that may seem like a long time but why make it end? its just stupid. i would 
 take the game back just for that but theres more.
  2. The computer AI is pretty dumb, they will change government types constantly like they will 
 go from a monarchy to democracy back to monarchy ete etc its so dumb. Why the AI chooses to go 
 to war with you makes no sense. you will have peaceful realations and then out of no where they 
 will attack and then try to be peaceful and then atack again its all done at random theres no sense 
 to it. you dont have much diplomacy options with human opponets which is terrible in every way, 
 the game is built around this diplomacy conceptt but you cant do it with human players? its dumb.
 
  3. the tech tree is poorly executed and dificult to find out what unlocks what
  4. can u say LAG! try to play online with alot of battles going on, its impossible.
  5. $63
 
  6. i could go on and on with all the other little problems but you get the idea. 
  its just ok. it could have been great but for some reason they just didnt execute it properly. 
 Why they didnt fix the problems i have no idea. I understand its difficult to build this type of 
 game for the console but holy $%^& you can fix the problems i mentioned. oh yeah and of course 
 its by 2k studios. name one good game they have ever made. i dare you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noct
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me start right off by saying that contrary to every other review out there that I have read, 
 I will try as hard as I can NOT to compare "Civ. Revolution" to "Civ. IV" (PC) . Although this game 
 is being treated by some as a port, it most certainly is not and should not be reviewed as one.
 
  
  Unlike the watered down console ports of PC games like "The Sims", The Civ. franchise has been 
 actually redesigned for consoles as a new title without sacrificing any of the addictive game play 
 the series is known for. Granted, there may be less micromanagement here and a smaller scope to 
 the worlds then that of its PC brethren, but since Civ. Rev. was designed to be played this way, 
 it is not something that hampers the game by any stretch of the imagination.
  
  For the uninitiated, Civ. has a fairly simple concept; you build a town and defend it, while you 
 explore outward and advance your civilization. There is of course intricacies being glossed over 
 in that synopsis, but that is the basic gist of it. It sounds like every other strategy game out 
 there until you realize the wealth of options you have to choose from as far as actually attaining 
 victory.
  
  Contrary to what you would first expect by the genre, Civ. is not a war game. Unlike titles like 
 Age of Empires or Command and Conquer, you could conceivably play an entire game of Civ. without 
 ever encountering any conflict at all, assuming of course that your negotiation and diplomacy skills 
 were actually that good (and your pockets that deep.)
  
  Victory is achieved by developing the greatest civilization on the planet, at your point in history. 
 This can be done through wealth, culture or military strength; it is all up to the leader of the 
 nation (you) , and that is one of the reasons why the game is just so enjoyable to play.
  
  The greatest part about the open-ended gameplay in my opinion is that your neighboring nations 
 actually utilize it as well. Attempting a peaceful civilization while your bordering nations were 
 amassing armies to wipe you out would make for a pretty short and frustrating game, but thankfully 
 the game's AI does not follow the traditional RTS mindset of "harvest resources, beef up military, 
 crush enemies". The opposing leaders will generally attempt diplomatic solutions first, just as 
 they most likely would in a real world scenario. They too are also trying to expand their culture 
 and settle new lands, so the game does not center strictly on building the greatest army that you 
 can.
  
  That's not to say that you won't see any battle, because the game most certainly delivers there 
 and the battles are executed spectacularly. Not only do they look great, but the battles are exciting, 
 since you can (generally) never really be sure how one will turn out. You may even see a lone warrior 
 fend off an entire legion of enemy soldiers if the situation is right. It is at times such as those 
 when you realize just how in-depth the fighting engine actually is in the game, with things like 
 the landscape, the experience of the soldier and even the troops that support it all playing into 
 who emerges victorious from a battle.
  
  Another excellent aspect of the open-endedness of the gameplay that makes the battles particularly 
 exciting is the individual progression of each nation's technology. Unlike a game like Age of Empires 
 (which tends to "coincidentally" leap-frog AI nations forward as you progress in time) , you can 
 often get a huge military advantage by researching a wing of technology that an enemy nation never 
 gets around to figuring out. Put simply, if Rome is learning how to read and write, while your 
 nation is developing gunpowder; things might not turn out too well for Rome
  
  It is those points in the tech progression that bring the biggest smiles to my face. Moments like, 
 when an enemy army soldiers up to my gates with spears in hand, only to find that my castle is 
 being defended by a legion of Tanks. But hey, they probably have a much better irrigation system 
 then I do
  
  On the graphics/presentation front, there is nothing revolutionary here, but the game looks fantastic 
 with brightly colored models, excellent animation and an extremely high production quality to everything 
 in the game. I have seen a stutter or two in the framerate here and there when a major event occurs, 
 but as it is a turn based game, it does not hamper the gameplay in any way. Considering how much 
 geometry is on the screen at once, the units look beautiful, the battles are animated fantastically, 
 and everything has an excellent overall style and presentation to it.
  
  The sound design too, while not being the single greatest thing I have ever heard, is very nice, 
 with musical interludes at key points that fit the tone of the moment and excellent effects when 
 you do actually go into a conflict. The explosions boom, the clashes of the swords have nice rich 
 metal tones, etc... The only complaints I have with the sound design at all is that they use a 
 similar workaround to recording voice tracks as "Sims" games do; all the leaders speak in gibberish. 
 It is nothing that makes or breaks the game, but while I used to find it kind of amusing/charming 
 in "The Sims", here it kind of annoys me for some reason
  
  Control is spot on here and rivals "Command and Conquer: Kane's Wrath" for the best console strategy 
 interface I have experienced yet. It takes a bit of getting used to the end turn button, but once 
 you get into the flow of things, you can rapidly select and create units and zip around the map 
 with ease.
  
  Replayablity for this title is absolutely huge. Not only does nearly every game play out differently, 
 but there is both excellent single player and multiplayer choices via online or system link.
  
  With downloadable "games of the week", classic historical type scenarios to conquer and the 
 prospects of DLC in the future, this game promises to remain fresh for a long time to come.
  
  I just can't say enough good things about this title. Veteran strategy buffs and newcomers 
 alike will find its deep rich gameplay and intuitive accessible interface both easy to get started 
 with and hard to put down. This truly is a game for both casual and hardcore gamers.
  
  The only real criticisms I have would be that I would have preferred a way to play on larger maps 
 and for longer periods of time. My first play through on the standard difficulty was over in less 
 then 3 hours. In a game that spans hundreds of years and involves conquering the planet, it seems 
 like is should take longer 
  As far the map size goes, once I had explored the whole map, I almost felt like I was on one of 
 the round little planets from Mario Galaxy. After the fog has been lifted and you see just how 
 close the "continents" are too each other it makes the whole experience lose a bit of its global 
 conquest feel.
  
  All things considered, these complaints merely show how excellent the game truly is, I want more 
 of it and I want it to last longer. Not many games get complaints like that.
  
  Well done Mr. Meier. Much like "Pirates!," Civ. Rev. is a truly excellent game that will keep me 
 playing for a long time to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grigjd3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I think I've played every Civilization and Colonization game and I was psyched about this one. 
 I was not entirely disappointed as the game has all the trademarks of a Sid Meier game which is 
 to say, it's a lot of fun. The disappointment, of course, is the way the game has been streamlined 
 for a console audience. In a day and age where both Morrowind and Oblivion have had great sales 
 on consoles, developers shouldn't worry so much that a game is overcomplicated for a console. I 
 know this only means something to those who've played the other games in the series, but this one 
 comes in a little simpler than Civ 2. However, if you've heard your friends talk about Civilization 
 and you're wondering what it's all about, this is a great way to learn. On the other hand, I could 
 easily see myself popping the game in every month or so for the next few years to get a quick game 
 in.
  
  On the technical side, the graphics are gorgeous. The unit animations can entertain you over and 
 over again and it always looks cool to see your cruiser cutting through the mist. The sound is 
 also fairly entertaining though there are some notable volume differences that can be frustrating 
 if you are trying to be conscientious of others.
  
  All in all, the game doesn't compare well with it's ancestors, but that is mostly because of how 
 good it's ancestors were. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  A new Civ game is my super bowl. I have loved the series since I had to the DOS dance to get the 
 original to run on my 486 back in the day. 
  
  Needless to say the concept of a "designed for console" turn based game that I fell in love with 
 using a keyboard and mouse was going to be a hard sell. I will admit that I had a bit of a negative 
 bias toward console strategy games as I spent nearly two decades playing them primarily on PC. 
 
  
  From moments after placing the disk inside my 360 I realized quickly that when they claimed it 
 was "built from the ground up for consoles" they were not kidding, this game flows perfectly with 
 the use of a standard controller. It's seamless and within minutes you are comfortable enough with 
 the very straightforward controls that you will be managing units and cities in no time. 
  
  Originally I decided to start as the French, Paris was already in place and I opted for the 
 helpful tutorial option to get me accustom to the different menu's and various options. It was 
 helpful for me for the first twenty or so turns and that was all I required to understand what 
 was new to this version and what was missing from the PC versions. 
  
  While at any given time there is a lot going in from city management, to troop management, to diplomacy 
 to "culture" and borders you never really feel overwhelmed by everything that you need to do turn 
 to turn and the game does a great job slowly inching you into the more complex facets of the game 
 over several turns. 
  
  The maps are a lot smaller then many of the PC maps from Civ's past which I originally felt would 
 hinder the game but all and all it really did work well. I envisioned my empire from Civ 2 where 
 I had over 100 cities that took nearly ten minutes a turn to manage, but quickly realized you could 
 easily play this game with no more then a half dozen of your own cities plus whatever you conquered 
 along the way. It's not as expansive but just as much fun. 
  
  Within a few minutes of my first play I had come across the Germans and the city of Berlin to the 
 south of Paris and made quick work of the German capital. The battle animation is very entertaining 
 even after you have seen your hundredth battle, watching something like a group of pikemen try 
 and stop the onslaught from my Tanks is very entertaining and very satisfying. My concern with 
 coming across the Germans so quickly was that the map was very small and I would be done the first 
 play through in less then an hour, which was not the case. To give you an idea, I finally met the 
 Greek's nearly two and a half hours into the game and that was the last of the four other civilizations 
 on the board. 
  
  To give you an idea, the average single player game from start to finish on the easiest setting 
 was 3-4 hours, normally if I opted for something simple like a cultural victory (build enough wonders, 
 or have enough famous people join your society) and upwards to two hours longer if I opted for 
 Scientific or Economic victories. 
  
  The harder modes offer MUCH more challenge as your rival cultures get scientifically advanced quickly 
 and are very aggressive and with a map that is smaller then other civ games you better get your 
 game face on and fast. On something like "King" difficulty it can take upwards of five to six hours 
 to even be in a position where you are not constantly worrying about attacks on your cities every 
 turn. 
  
  The one aspect of this game which really struck me as interesting was the "culture" aspect. The 
 English and American's had been feuding and as such New Orleans was in the hands of the English, 
 it was pretty well in the middle of nowhere and I opted to have my riflemen make short work of 
 the army of warriors defending the city. Once I took it I focused on defense, building units, barracks 
 and the like and I found myself with an English border to my south, American to the North and East 
 and a Russian one to the west. I was then informed that the people of New Orleans felt cultural 
 ties to the English and if I did not do something to promote culture they would defect. 
  
  I ended up taking the English city of Bristol, which I was then able to build a road from Orleans 
 to Bristol to New Orleans and all of a sudden the people felt more connected with my society and 
 the threat vanished. 
  
  It also led to a very interesting situation with the American city of San Francisco, that I could 
 not take by force, so instead I surrounded it with French Cities and took the smaller American 
 city of New York and cut it off from other American cities within a few years they came over and 
 joined my society without a single bullet fired. 
  
  Very cool. 
  
  Overall the graphics are not on par with some of the more modern titles on the market but it still 
 maintains that Civilizations charm that we all enjoy and as such makes the game very polished overall. 
 
  
  If I did have to note something that was generally annoying, I found between era's the game slowed 
 down to the point where I thought it had actually hung and then it chugged along after a few moments 
 as though nothing had happened. During standard gameplay this was not really an issued but between 
 eras it got annoying as my heart rate increased thinking about when I had saved last
  
  You will also find the number of units and buildings reduced from the standard civ game, although 
 an interesting advantage is that every race has its own pros and cons and comes with a unit that 
 is unique that that race.
  
  With the game being very new the ability for online matchmaking was pretty limited although from 
 the limited amount of time I was able to play with a friend head to head I found the online play 
 was interesting and very engaging. A human opponent just provides you with that little extra edge 
 to make every game vastly different from the next. 
  
  Overall, I am generally impressed with every aspect of the game. Even my girlfriend who has never 
 in her life played a turn based strategy (she is more of a DDR and Singstar type) sunk an hour 
 into single player last night and really enjoyed it. However I don't see many FPS fans coming over 
 from the darkside to partake in this title. It has a wealth of appeal but its not so amazing that 
 I would consider it to be genre crossing and offering a broad appeal to all gamers, its an acquired 
 taste that those who are not fans of strategy games may still dislike because of the micromanagement. 
 
  
  Although, for those of us who can get into it the single player offers a ton of replay-ability, 
 and the online just makes the appeal of the game limitless. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: advocacy
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  So, you want a Revolution? You got it! Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution is a console version 
 of the popular Civilization series on the PC. Understandably, most people would be skeptical is 
 such a thing could be done to ergonomically suit a PS3 or an Xbox 360 controller, as RTS games 
 which make the leap from PC to console don't fare so well in the transition.
  
  After having played Civilization Revolution, however, I am happy to report that this game is a 
 keeper for anyone that likes strategy games, or would like a change of pace from all those first 
 person shooters that have been dominating the online scene. The game developers really took their 
 time to make a game that is easy to pick up and play, yet deep enough for veterans of the genre 
 to enjoy many different strategic options.
  
  Basically, you select a Civilization from among a group of unique races with their own strengths 
 and weaknesses. It's a lot of fun to try and figure out new ways to take advantage of your racial 
 strengths or to exploit your enemies' weaknesses. For example, the Zulu are strong early in the 
 game because their warrior units can move an extra square, or the Aztecs have military units that 
 heal after every conflict. Other Civ's are stronger late in the game, like the Romans that can 
 make Wonders (expensive buildings with game-breaking special effects) at half the cost.
  
  After you have selected your Civ, you place your first city. Positioning is key here, since you 
 must place it near areas where you can harvest resources to make your city grow or to make units 
 for going to war. Afterwards, the game is like a huge chess board where you fight four other enemy 
 Civilizations. There are also non-violent ways of winning, such as the Cultural Victory (where 
 you build Wonders or generate Great Persons by making building that produce more Culture) the Economic 
 Victory (by making a lot of money and making the World Bank) or Technological Victory (where you 
 beat the other Civ's in a race for outer space.)
  
  The graphics for the game are cartoonish and colorful, and they are adequate for the sheer lunacy 
 of the game's main objective, which is nothing short of world domination. The music is enjoyable, 
 with different aural cues to let you know which Civilization is on screen at the time. Some voices 
 though, which speak in a Sim-like language called Firaxlish, are a little annoying, especially 
 from the side of the advisers. But this is minor nit-picking, as the presentation is top notch, 
 and it's a real thrill to see sprawling cities grow and develop across the map, or to see your 
 mighty Artillery topple an enemy city.
  
  I must say though, that the single player is a little lacking in options. There is no campaign 
 mode to speak of, but there are five different difficulty levels to test your might against. The 
 online multiplayer, however, more than makes up for this shortcoming, as it's a real blast to go 
 at it one-on-one or two-versus-two on Xbox Live. There's also a cool map of the week function, 
 where players compete to see who can best complete a new downloadable map every week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octaaf7
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  It's really a great game if you love TBS games. I have never played a TBS game that was so amusing. 
 The only disadvantage of the entire game is that the people keep pupping up your screen telling 
 you what to do and what not, that could take some time. some other this is that when you have like 
 15 cities you jump to every city a time when there is a unit or building ready, and when you don't 
 want to build anymore, you still keep pupping to that city.
  And the most biggest disadvantage is that its very, I mean VERY addicted:)
  1 day I played 3 
 games in 9 hours non stop: O
  Yeah I know get a life, put the time passes really quick this way, anyway its a great game when 
 you are familiar with TBS, and I would recommend you this game definitely.
  Oh yes and about the multiplayer, I think it needs a little update, because it's very hard to find 
 ALL the servers, they need to make a system that you can find all the servers in the entire game.
 
  That would be a lot more easier!
  
  Octaaf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popcorn1223
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Knowing how most developers mess up at converting a PC game to a console game, i didnt even want 
 to try it. But im a fan of first-person shooters and rts , so i tried it out. I was surprised and 
 it had easy comfortable controls and sleek graphics with ( i guess you could say funny advisors) 
 advisors that somewhat helped. I never got to play the PC version because im not a hardcore gamer 
 that would stay 4 weeks playing 1 match so.. you get my point. The sound is a like a ds game but 
 it fits the cartoon like features of civ. revo. The way the game advances going from catapults to 
 cannons and horsemen to tanks really shows how life advanced and its just fun to watch tanks blow 
 archers to pieces. Usally you could just massivley produce one unit in a rts and win. But in this 
 turn-based game you really need to think about what your doing. If you going with a domination 
 victory you should advance in military tech and so on... With 5 different difficulties you can really 
 choose the one best for you. With 16 civs and 4 ways to win a game it has great replay value.
  Gameplay:9/10
  Graphics:8/10
  Controls:8/10
  Audio:7/10
  Value:10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skinner_Y2K
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  Ok, This game for me really makes a giant leap in bringing PC quality gaming to the console.
  
  I love Civ, played several versions on the PC so couldn't wait to get my hands on this game.
 
  
  Firstly, after the 1st game I was a little surprised that once the game had been won you couldn't 
 carry on playing. I was also surprised the game only lasted a few hours.
  
  I then played several more games on different difficulty settings and have now found it very addictive 
 and because it only last a few hours it's very easy to pick up and play. I always found that the 
 PC version would go on for what seemed like weeks and I remember many late nights after college 
 and work just to finish 1 game.
  
  Overall I think it's bought the PC game to the console and I find it hard to believe that anything 
 will come close to matching it. Even the PC version.
  
  Achievements, yet again, add that little something extra to the game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkfinger724
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Its official. The Real Time Strategy genre is coming to take over your home console. It started 
 with LOTR: BFME. Followed by one of my personal favourites, C&C 3. Now, what does the Civilization 
 series have to offer. Well, one of the best RTS's on the 360 yet.
  
  Everything that you would expect from a Civilization game is. If you ever wanted to play Age of 
 Empires on your home console, this is as close as your going to get, except for one thing. This 
 is far superior.
  
  First, the positives. The game is very in depth, even more than that of C&C. The menu interface 
 isn't a mess and the overall presentation will make you feel all happy and cheery inside.
  
  However, the multiplayer matches don't last long due to small map sizes, the map cannot be 
 rotated and the camera doesn't come out far enough.
  
  These negatives to the game however are very small gripes to a game that does so many other important 
 things right. This is easily the greatest console RTS game so far. Time to step down Kane!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JwresB
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution, to put it in simple terms, plays a lot like a lighter and more breezy 
 version of the PC series. The style of the game will be instantly familiar to veterans, but the 
 several menus and options are a lot less comparatively, which means that newcomers shouldn't find 
 the experience too complicated to begin with. Basically, the goal of the game is to have your civilization 
 achieve victory in one of three fashions; you can win through military conquest, which involves 
 building up your armies before defeating and capturing all other civilizations across the globe, 
 or you can win by achieving financial, cultural or technological dominance, which are less violent 
 approaches and require you to build up specific aspects of your civilizations such as your money, 
 your 'great' buildings and people, and your ability to use science in an effective, forward-thinking 
 manner. Given that there are multiple ways to achieve victory within each turn-based game, it means 
 that you don't necessarily have to play the same way each time; in a competitive sense, trying 
 to win via your cultural resources while other stronger civilizations are trying to win through 
 warfare could be a smart move, for example.
  
  Given the turn-based nature of the game, you're never really rushed to make decisions, which is 
 definitely a positive considering that there will at many moments be a lot of different decisions 
 and tactical manoeuvres that need to be made at any given time. During your turn, you'll be able 
 to designate in each of your cities what you want to build or create; you could focus on strengthening 
 your armies by creating more knights, or you can build a monument such as the Shakespeare Theatre 
 to help put your civilization on the map. There are numerous things you can 'build', which uses 
 a certain amount of resources and will take a number of turns to finalise, with smaller features 
 taking a lot less time to come to fruition. Considering the large amount of options you'll have 
 in terms of building your civilization however you'd like, it all actually works well with a variety 
 of menus navigated using the shoulder buttons and the analog sticks. 
  
  Moving around the expansive maps to plan your next move is as easy as moving around with the right 
 analog stick, and selecting what to do with selected cities or characters is explained with simple 
 on-screen indicators informing you of which face buttons to press for each specific action you 
 may require. It's easily the best example of strategy gameplay on a console that we've seen thus 
 far; we'd even go as far to say that the game actually benefits from the use of a controller over 
 a mouse and keyboard in this particular case. The fact that they have made the effort to create 
 this game specifically with console gamers in mind rather than just porting over a PC version and 
 mapping the buttons differently shines through, and makes the game feel natural and enjoyable to 
 play through rather than being a difficult and overly complicated chore.
  
  The game also offers a variety of different difficulty settings; choosing one of the easier difficulties 
 means that you'll receive helpful hints from in-game advisers who will continually inform you of 
 your progress and offer suggestions of what to do next if you're not sure of your next move. While 
 these easier modes are good for learning the in's and out's of Civilization: Revolution, they certainly 
 aren't very challenging, so thankfully there are some difficult and far more intense difficulty 
 settings available. Rival civilizations will attack you willingly and will make smart deals, and 
 every move that you make will need to be seriously thought out, as doing something wrong or taking 
 too many moves to make a decision could leave you vulnerable to attack and make advancing your 
 own civilizations all the more difficult. 
  
  The most fun that can be had with Sid Meier's Civilization: Revolution is when tackling the multiplayer 
 mode. While playing against the AI is entertaining, the actions of a human opponent are always 
 far more interesting, and allows the game to always be played differently based on the type of 
 people you'll come across online. Making peace with other players to share information or technology 
 is certainly useful, and making a concrete alliance with another players civilization opens up 
 a variety of tactical opportunities, where you could potentially 'gang up' on other civilizations 
 and try to rule the world together. Of course, nothing lasts forever, and there can only be one 
 winner, so you'll be wanting to keep an eye on your alliance to make sure that they don't turn 
 on you when it will benefit them the most; you'll want to take advantage of them too, obviously! 
 Needless to say, the thought process that goes through your mind is far different from when battling 
 the AI, and if you are a fan of the game, you could spend a lot of time playing it competitively 
 against opponents worldwide. 
  
  The only part of the game that falls sort of flat in the grand scheme of things is in the audio 
 and visual departments. While Civilization: Revolution certainly does look colourful, and we appreciate 
 that there can be a lot of detail on the 'board' at any one time, the character models simply don't 
 impress and a lot of the scenery looks fairly samey. If you take a look close up at the cities, 
 you can see monuments that you have built, which is a nice touch, and while we can see that a cartoon-like 
 style was a design decision, it often stutters and doesn't really look up to scratch when compared 
 with other current generation offerings. Sound is equally a mixed bag, with some sound effects 
 and music fitting the game perfectly, while other elements are in serious need of some audio to 
 make the experience more exciting. Still, they do the job alright and Civilization, while usually 
 looking crisp, was never really about insanely high production values in the first place. 
  
  Sid Meier's Civilization: Revolution is easily the most effective and most addictive strategy 
 game ever to be released on a console, and is worth a shot for anyone interested in the franchise 
 or genre at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Expo_Smacko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  I must say this game was not something I was looking at before I knew what games I wanted to get 
 for this year.
  
  I was reading around the internet and saw how people said this game is amazing, and this it lives 
 up to its name. I never played the game on the PC so I was like hey, whats the point? So, I downloaded 
 the demo and need less to say I love the game.
  
  Now, it's only a demo and the demo was amazing so this was a must buy game.
  
  So, I got the 
 game a couple days ago, and I love the game. It's simply amazing I am glad I downloaded the demo 
 so I could see this great game in action.
  
  I think the one thing I like is the game play, and then I also like how I can build troops and 
 take over citys. Also, that there is like a lot of things you can do and ages you can go threw.
 
  
  I would say this game is a must buy, weither you have played it on the PC, or you have not played 
 the game at all. 
  
  Go download the demo :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_scfc
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:50 am PT
Review:  There are no flashy things in Civ Rev. It will never overtake Call of Duty 4 as the Most Played 
 Game on LIVE, however, it is easily the best strategy game on console. It is plain fun. The main 
 outline of the game is your the new leader of a civilization. You are charged with leading your 
 chosen civilization from the Ancient Era all the way through to the Modern Era. You can choose 
 from about 10-15 civilizations from the Greeks to the Spanish. From the Americans to the English. 
 From the Germans to the Aztecs, and many more. As you lead your civilization you research new technologies. 
 So therefore, your armies become more powerful, your cities become more powerful. The technologies 
 range from the Alphabet to Atomic Theory. (Nuclear Weapons) . There are four ways to win the Civ 
 Rev.
  -Economic- Reach 20,000 pieces of gold and build the World Bank.
  -Domination- Probably the easiest- Build up a massive army full of Modern Infantry units and Tank 
 Armies and take your opponents capitals.
  -Cultural- All together get 20 wonders, converted cities or great people to settle in your city.
 
  -Technology- Research space flight, build a spaceship then wait till it reaches Alpha Centauri. 
 
  Maybe, not on Chieftain (the easiest difficulty) but the rest every move feels critical. Miss out 
 on combustion by one move and the annoying Japanese might have enough firepower to take your capital. 
 Or focus on taking another city and leave your others totally defenceless. Just little things like 
 this make Civ Rev the best strategy game on console. It's nothing but sheer fun to build up your 
 armies and take over the world. Thats why George Bush must do it so much! And it came out in the 
 UK before the US!! On a serious note, you will love Civ Rev you will love the power at your disposal. 
 A must have for any strategy fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrighty1990
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Right, this is the first time that i have written a review so i don't know how im doing but anyway!
 
  Civ Rev is a fun and exiting game which i first played the demo on single and on xbox live and 
 i liked it so yea i gave it a try and bought it! but this was without know that there was no single 
 player campaign what so ever and you can only do like a skirmish with each tribe, which is a huge 
 downfall as i expected it to be similar to the way C&C do their single player!
  Anyway the online is much better it is fun to play with friends as there are many different types 
 of matches available to play!
  The characters themselves are nothing like they were in real life, as far as i know, because since 
 when has Ghandi threatened a nation with violence ( hes religious btw) so i then retaliated by 
 dropping a nuke on his capital city which was very amusing i must say!
  Any way they are 5 difficulty levels on the game which progress and get much tougher i have only 
 played it up to the third which is king, but i found it quite tough as the AI take more caution 
 and actually know what their doing!
  And lastly if you're an achievement addict this game is not for you as you short achievement quite 
 quickly when you start but there only worth 3gs each lol!
  any way if you feel like you want to give this a chance i recommend you to download the demo from 
 the marketplace first, which is short but it gives you a feel for the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigi7007
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is a game that when you watch someone playing on it, your first reaction 
 is 'What the hell is going on??? Its going so quickly!!!' but to play the game is an incredibly 
 detailed and addictive experiences. In fact, despite not being so technically amazing, this game 
 is more addictive than GTA4!! 
  First of all there are 4 ways to win a game. Cultural victory, Technological victory, economic 
 victory and domination victory. To win a cultural victory you have to build 20 great great wonders 
 or people, (such as Albert Einstein) , and build the united nations to win. To win a technological 
 victory you have to Research enough technologies to build Alpha Centuari. To win economic you need 
 to get 20,000 gold pieces, which is seperated over 8 milestones, and to win domination victory 
 you need to capture all enemy capitals. You have to think and plan ahead how you want to win at 
 the beginning as all of a sudden in 2002, you'll realise that you won't have enough turns left 
 to win. Turns, at the beginning in 3000 bc, are worth 100 years but by 2000, the modern era, they 
 will be worth just 2. You also have to be careful with diplomacy as some allies will stab you in 
 the back, for example, you have 19 people or wonders and a cultural victory is on the horizon but 
 someone with a strong army might threaten you that if you don't hand over a person, they will attack 
 you. This means that in the game you have to take all things into account. This is what makes it 
 the highly immersive strategy game that it is.
  I could go on for hours talking about every single component, but one thing is for sure. This is 
 a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemlyn
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Firstly, let me get something out of the way: I've never played Civilization on PC. But since I 
 would suppose most people playing the 360 version of Civ (like me) game almost exclusively on their 
 consoles and leave their PCs for emails and the like, it probably really doesn't matter. Civilization 
 Revolution proudly boasts it's been built specifically for consoles, and it shows: unlike many 
 strategy titles on consoles, Civ is so easy to pick up and play you'll be fighting off whoever 
 it is you share your console with in your household just to get a go (in fact, I'm writing this 
 as my girlfriend plays Civ right now) .
  I have an appreciation for strategy games, but that's doesn't mean I'm really into them - I suck 
 at them. Or maybe I just suck at the real time strategy thing. Civ is turn based, so you can just 
 sit there and really think about what you'd like to do next. C+C this ain't, but I mean that in 
 a good way. Civ really lets you dip your toe into the water first before the real depth of the 
 gameplay hits, and this may just be the fundamental reason why it could be a hit with console gamers 
 looking for something more than just another FPS.
  I could explain all about how this game works, but words will make it sound boring and convoluted, 
 which it really isn't. It's actually the most addictive game I've played in ages. So instead I 
 recommend the following: download the demo, play it through, and if (like me) you find you would 
 really like to continue on developing your nation into a cultural haven, economic pinnacle or military 
 juggernaut, then buy Civilization Revolution and get ready for some stupidly late nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rackax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  This has to be an improvement on the prequels for the PC graphically wise and enjoyability but 
 much of the content and the micromanagement has been removed in favor of simplicity. It is no longer 
 possible to have week long games as you could play on earlier versions, as most games are over 
 in a couple of hours on a challenging difficulty. The difficulty's themselves are unsuitable the 
 easiest is so easy you can complete the game in less than 30mins and the hardest difficulty is 
 completely impossible. The difficulty in between are not challenging at all and the game quickly 
 loses interest after a couple of 30minute sessions. Overall the nuts and bolts that made the old 
 games have been sacrificed to make the game appeal to a larger audience. This forces you to put 
 the game away after a couple of plays as it has nothing more to offer you after you've spent a 
 few hours playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottydude182
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  I have put alot of time into this game and have found every minute to be worth it. It is no civ 
 4 however it was not meant to be. The average game takes 2-3 hours and there is the right difficulty 
 level for every player. the first 2 difficulties are extremely easy however it will challenge even 
 the greatest civ player on one of the hardest settings.
  
  The graphics are simple yet clean, the fights look ok not spectacular but you dont buy these games 
 for the graphics. the music is cheery and catchy, the only annoying sound is the advisors talking. 
 The gameplay is a perfect balance and never seems to lag. There is always something to do whether 
 that is moving units, building buildings or somthing simple as choosing research. The main thing 
 i would change about this game would be to make the different civs more different because currently 
 the differences seem small.
  
  i would reccomend this game to anyone who likes the originals or strategy games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swan32uk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  I've only had the game for 4 days but i basically been playing it most of that time. I've played 
 the PC version and I like that but this is a streamlined version of a quite frankly, bulky original. 
 Everything that i loved about Civ 4 is here but the micro management has been taken over by the 
 program. And that is a good thing. I can remember playing games of Civ 4 that could last up to 
 40 hours and quite frankly i dont have that much time to waste, with revolution i can get all the 
 feel of a great Civ game and play it in under 2 hours. The control system is just great you have 
 a feel for the controls in minutes and they only fail slightly towards the end of a game when you 
 have many units to select, and it can get a little fiddly. All in all a great 360 game and without 
 a doubt the best strategy game on any console, bar none.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azriel1990
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  First and foremost, I should mention that the last and only other Civ game I played was Civ IV 
 for the Mac. I found that I never really got into the game, the pace for me was too slow and I 
 found myself becoming bored with it before too long.
  
  Civilization Revolution however has changed my opinion of Civ games. This is the newest addition 
 to the series which premieres on the next generation of consoles (360, Ps3 and Wii) as well as 
 the DS. And it certainly has a lot to offer.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  Gameplay in Civ Revolution has definitely changed since Civ IV. The gameplay is now more streamlined 
 and ensures that the game is in fact much more easier for new comers to just pick up and immediately 
 become immersed in. Long time veterans of the series may be disappointed in some of the cut backs 
 that have been made e. g. lack of certain resources, shorter play time, less active players per 
 match etc. However what the game does offer provides an enjoyable experience.
  
  Players can assume the role of one of many leaders from Gengis Khan to Caesar to Abraham Lincoln. 
 The leader you choose dictates the nation you play as and it is up to you to develop your civilization 
 in any way that you see fit. Will you declare peace with your rival civs, or crush them into the 
 ground? Will you share technologies and Intel or keep your knowledge to yourself? Will you be peaceful, 
 scientific or a warmonger? What kind of government will you have? What kind of religion will you 
 have?
  
  These are just some of the decisions that await you through the course of the game, there are a 
 number of ways of winning including destroying your rival civs in a domination victory, being the 
 first civ to reach space and colonise a distant world in a space race victory, accumulating 20,000 
 gold pieces and constructing a World Bank for an economic victory or constructing several wonders 
 of the world or attracting 20 great people from history to your civ for a cultural victory.
  
  One neat feature is that some elements of micro management have been simplified, for example, 
 workers will now automatically develop surrounding squares, whereas before you would need to order 
 them around manually. You can however adjust what they are doing through the city management screen, 
 instructing them to focus on certain resources or to balance their efforts. In addition, the espionage 
 system has been improved, with spies now able to infiltrate a city and sabotage production or defensive 
 units, or even abduct a great person and bring them back to your own city. These spies add humour 
 to the game and are fun to produce and use, they can be produced quite early on which makes them 
 a valuable asset to your civ.
  
  Controls - 8/10
  
  Controls in Civ Revolution feel so intuitive and responsive, menus can be easily navigated at the 
 touch of a button and micro managing your civ is as easy as it ever was with a mouse. There are 
 some occasions where you may find the controls a little awkward, but these are rare and for the 
 most part the control scheme rarely falters. It is worth mentioning that adapting a PC game for 
 a console is not an easy feat, and one which so many games have messed up. But not Civ Revolution;
 
  
  Controls are simple; you move your cursor using the right analog stick and the face buttons to 
 issue commands and select units. Once a unit is selected, the face buttons can then be used to 
 issue an order such as to fortify a position (X button) or to hold position for one turn (B button) 
 etc. The D-Pad allows for cycling between units or additionally the left and right bumpers can 
 be used, the left bumper can also be used to bring up the city menu screen, at which point the 
 left and right bumper buttons can be used to cycle through cities.
  
  Visuals (Graphics) - 9/10
  
  Visuals have been vastly improved and specifically tailored to 
 the hardware of the next gen consoles. Units are now more realistic, cities look impressive as 
 they develop, each additional building making your city look simply stunning. Visuals in turn are 
 colourful, sharp and well animated, visuals such as these make the game all the more easier on 
 the eye and a pleasure to play over protracted periods. Advisor's are both helpful (they will immediately 
 tell you if something is wrong or make a suggestion that usually does help to progress the game) 
 and amusing in the way they will pop up and barge each other out of the way, or they way in which 
 they react to certain decisions. Also amusing are the various avatars that represent the various 
 civs or the third party barbarian clan. It goes without saying that the avatars in Civ Revolution 
 are far more larger then life then in previous installments.
  
  As you progress and gain more cities and expand, visuals can however sometimes suffer in the form 
 of things becoming too cluttered on screen, this can sometimes make keeping track of things slightly 
 more difficult, however with the intuitive menu options, this is a minor problem.
  
  Audio - 9/10
  
  As with previous installments in the series, the music in Civ Revolution is 
 of an excellent standard and really does give the game an epic/ movie feel.
  
  Re-playability - 9/10
  
  Numerous leaders to use commanding numerous civs each with their own 
 unique bonuses. Not to mention the endless possible ways to play through a game and the addition 
 of online multiplayer ensures that this game has a seriously high re-playability factor.
  
  Conclusion - I would highly recommend this game to both veterans and fans of the series, while 
 it may not appeal to everyone, this game does have a lot of potential and a lot of depth. Any Civilization 
 game is a game which if done poorly could really suck the fun out of the series, this game fortunately 
 doesn't fail in that area. Hopefully It will be the first of many installments of the series to 
 grace the next gen consoles. A must buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylegreg
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  i am very disappointed in this game i really enjoyed the pc verson however this just isnt a scratch 
 on it , they have got rid bof so many good things, for example there are still resources like coal 
 but now you no longer need them to build units like you no longer need alimunium to build planes 
 and so on. also probably the thing that makes me most disapointed is that i finished it in less 
 than 2 hours, and the only need to redo the game is to get achievements (which arnt very good) 
 so if it was on the ps3 it would be a total waste of money however online can be good at times 
 but you8 can be waiting a few minuites waiting for the people you are playing with to finish their 
 turns. but basicaly it is a turn based game which is originaly a pc game and has been converted 
 into a console game but i would recomend the pc versons (IV) or rome total war or medieval total 
 war which is real time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
