-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Silent Hill: Homecoming
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/adventure/silenthill5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent environmental lighting and shadow effects build a fantastic atmosphere.
 Intense boss battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Loses the psychological horror factor that the series is so well-known for.
 A poorly paced story that plods along for half the game before turning around.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Double Helix Games
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Sep 30, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Eye-catching visuals and creepy atmosphere aren't enough to make up for this game's poor pacing, 
 cheap tricks, and muddled story. 

  On the surface, Silent Hill: Homecoming is a dark and twisted homage to the series' classic roots. 
 However, beneath the thick layer of fog are a number of troubling issues that will only serve to 
 push away the devoted faithful that call Silent Hill their home. Developer Double Helix Games has 
 gone to great lengths to bring its vision of the haunted town to life, and while it is to be commended 
 for creating what is perhaps the most atmospheric entry in the enduring series, Homecoming is merely 
 a carefully constructed simulacrum of what has already been done.  

  Alex Shepard hasn't had a very good year. After being wounded in combat as an army soldier and 
 sent back to the US for a lengthy hospital stay, he begins to have nightmares in which his younger 
 brother Joshua is in danger. Released with a clean bill of health, Alex is determined to rescue 
 his sibling from the unknown threats that stalk him, even if it means returning to the town of 
 Shepard's Glen that he turned his back on so long ago. Once there, Alex is surprised to find that 
 his home has somehow been consumed by evil and its streets filled with dark, twisted things in 
 his absence. His nearly catatonic mother watches helplessly from her rocking chair as the world 
 falls apart. It seems as though the entire town has gone missing, which includes Alex's father 
 and brother. As Alex, you must unearth the shadowy secrets of your hometown's past to find your 
 brother and save him.  

           Alex is ridiculously good at monster smashing, which greatly decreases the fear factor. 

  Unfortunately, Alex's journey takes him through an odd mixture of old and new that will have newcomers 
 wondering what all the fuss over Silent Hill is about while longtime fans will be left scratching 
 their heads. Homecoming's cliched story -- while easier to follow than its precursors -- is poorly 
 paced and develops far too slowly, but if you can make it until the halfway point, it begins to 
 make remarkable changes for the better. Its unsatisfying gameplay also resembles a paint-by-numbers 
 game that has been painstakingly crafted from the "defining" elements from its predecessors, such 
 as creepy zombie nurses, pointlessly long hallways full of locked doors, and a fan-favorite special 
 guest. Worse yet, Homecoming relies on a number of cheap tricks, including a completely useless 
 flashlight, enemies that respawn endlessly until specific cutscenes are triggered, and easily predictable 
 shock moments that fail to generate tension or frights. Despite how disturbing the enemies and 
 environments are, Homecoming is anything but a terrifying experience.  

  As a soldier, Alex is gifted with a martial prowess and combat training that the other Silent Hill 
 protagonists lacked. In keeping with these skills, he is a powerhouse in battle who can chain together 
 attacks of several varieties with his melee weapons, finish off stunned monsters with a violent 
 coup de grace, and even dodge out of the way of incoming assaults. You're not limited to simply 
 using melee weapons either because Alex comes across several firearms to help him keep things that 
 go bump in night at a distance. It generally takes experimentation and patience to master a monster's 
 attack patterns and attune them to Alex's sometimes slow, jerky movements. However, once you do, 
 it essentially trivializes them for the rest of the game because they are so easy to kill. In this 
 way, Alex's skills dampen the psychological blow of being a stranger in a strange land and make 
 the monsters seem like little more than thorns in your side that you must wearily wade through 
 to get from point A to point B, which is something you literally do thanks to the incredibly linear 
 nature of exploration. Finally, as if things weren't easy enough, Homecoming introduces an entirely 
 new class of healing item on top of the usual health drinks and medical kits that not only completely 
 refills your life meter, but also expands it for the rest of the game.  

  When he's not putting a steel pipe through the heads of feral dogs or battling the huge and climactic 
 bosses in their resting places, Alex is searching the streets and buildings of Shepard's Glen trying 
 to piece together what happened. Your melee weapons pull a double duty here by allowing you to 
 chop through boarded-up doorways, cut through tapestries, and pry open stuck doors -- something that 
 only makes the "It looks like the lock is broken. I can't open it." message you will repeatedly 
 see all the more infuriating. You will also encounter a number of puzzles that vary from rewiring 
 fuse boxes to deciphering complex spinning locks and beyond. Though most of these are solved through 
 simple trial and error or by hunting down specific items, some of the end-game puzzles require 
 far more thought and are highly engaging. These puzzles do not reset if you make a mistake and 
 exit out of them, so be warned that you may need to restart from your last save file if you mess 
 up too badly.  

           Slashes and other injuries show up in real time during combat.      

  Homecoming manages 
 to capture the essence of the Silent Hill experience and raise it to entirely new levels of realism 
 with amazing environmental lighting, as well as shadow effects. Even old-but-faithful staples, 
 such as the gratuitous fog or the grainy camera filters, are upgraded and have never looked better. 
 Both Alex and the monsters he faces will show off slashes or cuts from weapons. The transformation 
 to the Otherworld is also done in real time, mirroring the style used in the 2006  Silent Hill 
  film from which some of the monster designs and locations in the game were borrowed. Occasionally, 
 the frame rate will drop -- particularly when turning -- and though it is by no means game-breaking, 
 it is annoying. Akira Yamaoka's music and sound effects are as always brilliant, adding much to 
 the atmosphere of the haunted towns -- especially during the big boss encounters. But because Homecoming 
 is disconnected from the series' psychological roots, it seems almost out of place.  

  Silent Hill: Homecoming, while quite a departure from the psychological horror that fans are used 
 to, is still a decent, occult-themed action game that you can squeeze 10 hours of tepid enjoyment 
 from. If, however, you're looking for a classic Silent Hill-style frightfest, you will likely be 
 disappointed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (124 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:02 am PT
Review:  Years in the making and another several months for PAL regions availability, the fifth game in 
 the main series of Silent Hill is finally out on the 360. There were many concerns about this one 
 being developed by not only some other studio than Team Silent but also a western developer. Fortunately 
 it turns out that this American take on Japanese take on American horror is better than expected.
 
  
  Game is heavily inspired by the 2006 movie adaptation of the series so it's a bit like game to 
 movie and back again to game but for the most part it's a good translation. The plot is written 
 from ground up not really connecting to what was on the big screen except the notorious Order. 
 Difference is that it's not really about the Order and the whole evil God thing. It's entirely 
 Alex's story and there is no mention about Alessa whatsoever but as "Origins" are all about her 
 I guess Konami wanted to do something more close to "Silent Hill 2".
  
  However, "Homecoming" bears a striking resemblance to Christophe Gans' movie in its visual presentation. 
 Not only it maintains the same feel but some things are taken right from the cinema. Just like 
 design of iconic Pyramid Head making its second appearance in games or nurses being another hallmark 
 of the series. This time around I really like what's behind design of this particular enemy. Apart 
 from great animation (again moves borrowed from movie) nurses look much more feminine than any 
 of its previous iterations. They have sexy silhouettes with boobs right in your face but "melted" 
 faces with no expression and rotten, pale skin, dressed in decaying outfit. It's like a twisted 
 reflection through a broken mirror of men's stereotypical fantasy. This fits well to some of the 
 main themes of "Silent Hill" in general and makes a good contrast with the main protagonist who's 
 finally some tough guy, but I'll write more about Alex in a moment.
  
  Shifting into the Otherworld is also very movie-like. Thanks to the superior technology of current-gen 
 systems it is finally presented in real-time and it looks awesome. Everything around us suddenly 
 turns to the dark world, environments get all rusty and fleshy and corrupted, and there we are 
 in this sort of industrial hell. There's also nice little vintage filter making things look like 
 an old 35mm. The whole visual design from top to bottom stays faithful to very characteristic style 
 of Silent Hill games. Here and there you can also see influences from such modern American horror 
 flicks as "SAW" series, like at the very end of "normal" prison area where there is this kind of 
 torture device pretty much taken from "SAW III" if I remember well. Level of violence is one more 
 element that brings back memories from films as "Hostel" or above mentioned "SAW". It's very, very 
 graphic to put it simple. So overall graphics are very good both technically and artistically. 
 Sure, it could look better and have a LOT better lip sync for God's sake but still it's pretty 
 satisfying.
  
  I don't even have to mention about music other than that it's still master Yamaoka gracing us with 
 another set of creepy, eerie compositions and a few superbly written songs featuring everyone's 
 favourite Mary Elizabeth McGlynn.
  
  On the storyline side it's not bad however, it's nothing near as good as "SH2". There are multiple 
 endings but it's a bit different than in other games in the series. Let's stick to "SH2" comparison. 
 Every ending showed us a different outcome to the whole situation. In "Homecoming" every ending 
 doesn't show us what will happen next to Alex and other characters, it rather shows what the hell 
 was that all about we've been experiencing in last five hours. It's a strange move from the writers 
 because to some extent it changes the meaning of the whole game. On the other hand, every gamer 
 gets a different experience depending on his choices so maybe that's the case. Writing is not bad 
 but I doubt you'll gonna remember every line of dialogue just because it's so awesome (yeah, another 
 "SH2" comparison) .
  
  Double Helix did their homework and they created their own combat system from scratch. Nothings 
 really revolutionary here but it gets the job done. You could say it's the best in the series and 
 that's something you would expect from a soldier character to have some skills. Alex is by the 
 way a pretty likable one. I don't love him but I appreciate he has some shades of grey. He makes 
 a good protagonist, and with nice supporting cast it's pretty solid group of characters. It doesn't 
 matter that by the end of the game you will hate most of them, but in a good way. There are some 
 plot twists and turns, notably in the second part of the game, and many things are not as they 
 seem to be. The only pain is that it's not backed up with great puzzle solving. For the most part 
 it's too obvious and simplistic. There are locked doors, go find a key and that's it. The only 
 really great ones are finding a way out of Otherworld home halfway through the game or retrieving 
 an item from something that looks like a fleshy column and maybe couple of others. That way the 
 game is a bit disappointing but you can't expect "SH2" every year especially that it's not Team 
 Silent.
  
  But is this game full of crap? By any means it is not. It's a genuine Silent Hill which still scares 
 pretty good despite its flaws... and the fact that it's pitch black everywhere ;) I can easily 
 recommend it to every fan of SH or horror genre, especially that there is practically no competition 
 now that Resident Evil turned into Gears of War in Africa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onyx79
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:29 am PT
Review:  Well well, we, European, finally have a chance to try the new chapter in the Silent Hill franchise. 
 
  
  I guess you do not have to be a fan of the series to appreciate this game, if you are after jump, 
 scare, you won't quiet find it here but if you're after discomfort, edginess then tune in, Silent 
 Hill is just what you were looking for.
  
  I will always remember the first time I have played the first SH back in the PSone days. I thought 
 it would be fun to play the game in the dark, TV volume up, sadly, it was a great mistake, the 
 experience was too disturbing to play in the dark. That's how strong of an effect this game had 
 on me. Something I had not felt since Alien Trilogy, which, in its own rights, creeped me out (walking 
 down those corridors hearing the facehuggers running around without actually knowing where the 
 creepy little sods were..) .
  
  Since then, this type of experience was rarely recreated outside the franchise. There are a few 
 exceptions, such as Fatal Frames, Siren, Obscure, or Resident Evil, but there were just too few 
 to equal the feeling of playing that Silent Hill Game. 
  
  Whithin the franchise, we had decent installments, such as the second and third Silent Hills which 
 were top notch and then the poor fourth installment titled the room which had nothing substantial 
 (in my opinion) to qualify as a decent Silent Hill game.
  
  In a few words, I was really hoping "Homecoming" would set us back to the early days of the series: 
 they have!. SH: Homecoming feels like a back to basics for the series, with an improved fighting 
 system, an intensely creepy dense fog, a very atmospheric soundtrack and best of all, a compilation 
 of all the best creepy monsters you have encountered in all the previous installments (if you played 
 them of course..) .
  
  The graphics are nothing to jump and shout about, they're nice but they're not Resident Evil nice. 
 Few nice touches, like (again) the fog, the transition between the two worlds, the creatures, the 
 characters but equally lazy touches as some of the textures found in the game feel very much like 
 last generation. The controls are fresh, the view is just right, and the lighting in the game makes 
 for extra creepiness. The game is so dark in fact that you will (almost 90% of the time) have to 
 rely on your torch to see where you're going.
  
  The story line is not really ground breacking, same old as previous Silent Hill games really but 
 in a way that is what makes it so special. It is good to know that we have a franchise that delivers 
 the same, creepy, spooky and disturbing atmsophere over and over. This is THE game you have been 
 waiting for if all you wanted what to play a decent horror game.
  
  As I always say, if you're hesitant about the game, you can always rent it and make your own mind 
 up on it. There is no better judge than your own self :-)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drugsrbadmkay16
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill: Homecoming (Xbox 360)
  
  Storyline: A-
  Here is basically how the story goes (simple) : You (Alex) search for clues about the strange occurences 
 that have been going on in Silent Hill (just like the other games) as well as search for your brother, 
 Joshua, who keeps mysteriously running away. That's all I'm going to say so there is no spoilers. 
 The storyline is where a lot of the complaints for the game come into place. Many critics claim 
 that it is not intense at all, or it is just too strange overall. This is completely inaccurate. 
 I admit that the story lacks a bit of intensity or complexity, but it is still very suspenseful 
 and motivates your desire for completing the entirety of the game. The game is strange, but isn't 
 supposed to be? The level of "weird" throughout the story is not overboard and actually makes it 
 that much more suspenseful and creepy. It needs to be given a chance, and it hasn't been. The game's 
 speed has a steady tempo, for the most part. However, it does become a bit of annoyance at times 
 when you are constantly running across town searching for things you know nothing about. The game 
 is also WAY too short. I finished it in under 5 hours, and games usually take me a decent amount 
 of time to beat. It's a little disappointing in that matter, but it leaves you in good suspense 
 for another sequel, just like every other game in the series does. It has good intentions overall, 
 and I really like the new RPG elements that Konami added. Certain decisions you make in the story 
 affect the outcome of the game. There is a total of (I believe) 7 possible outcomes, and they are 
 all surprising as well as complete. A couple of them, however, are kind of stupid for lack of a 
 better word. More thought should have been put into the endings, but still the RPG is a cool new 
 ideal addition to the rising series. Major props to the new American team working on this game. 
 I can't wait for the next to see where the ending leaves us in it. Another thing it has on other 
 current survival games is replay value. The only other game I have ever beaten more than once was 
 "San Andreas" and I am now on my third time with this game. It still remains just as suspenseful 
 every time.
  
  Graphics: B+
  The graphics in "Silent Hill" remain great, as always. Unfortunately, there is a "however". The 
 game is WAY too dark. Unless you have some kind of magical T. V., you are going to want to choose 
 the highest possible brightness settings. This is a big problem and so fixable, which is very disappointing. 
 At any point in production, did someone turn to the guy next to him and go "can you see a damn 
 thing?". I don't think so, and that kind of just shows a bit of laziness. It's really a no-brainer 
 when you take a single look at the game. But besides that, the game is great looking. The character 
 models are great, as well as consistent, and the scenery and texture is just flawless. Everything 
 looks so real, and there is so much detail. Also, the game's atmosphere is amazing. Fog and haze 
 "fuzz" up the screen and it is just freakin awesome. If you're a sucker for that kind of stuff, 
 you will be blown away by this game. Honestly. The monsters on the game are also very good looking. 
 All the creatures look creepy as hell, and still very real. The only complaint I have is with the 
 nurses. The nurses look more like a porn-star than anything else, to be honest. The nurse outfits 
 looks like one of those erotic, sexy Halloween costumes that you could find. It is a nice look 
 for them (hehe) , but it doesn't go well with a game that involves them trying to slash your entire 
 body.
  
  Entertainment: A
  Like I said, this game is very fun and has a lot of replay value. Numerous elements keep it alive. 
 It is a bit controversial though, and I can see how some people may not find it all that great. 
 But if you like slashing monsters and surviving an invasion of crazy creatures, you will most likely 
 have a blast with this game. The game is pretty difficult though, so if you're new to these kinds 
 of survival games, chances are that you will get stuck in an area and give up. It almost happened 
 to me. Just keep trying, kids!
  
  Recommendations: B
  I recommend this game to the following people: 
  -Survival/horror fans
  -Fans of the series
 
  -Anyone looking for something different
  -RPG fans
  -Those who don't mind a 3PS
  
  Overall: A- 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alexruss2007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  I don't go in for games based on the reviews of gaming sites or on hype alone, so this review is 
 from a non-biased perspective. Having played only SH2 and SH4: The Room before, I'll compare my 
 experiences with Homecoming to my experiences with these previous installments. However I am not 
 a huge Silent Hill fan, so I'll try to make this review as non-biased as possible. 
  
  The first thing that must be said about Homecoming is that, no matter what the gaming websites 
 have said, it is creepy. Not to the extent of SH2, I'll admit - but as those who've played it will 
 know, that is a cult classic in regards to its ability to play with your mind. Homecoming maintains 
 SH2's creepy piano-based music and sound effects; one of the truly excellent features of the series 
 as it is one of the main reasons for its fear factor. I say it's not as creepy as SH2 because Double 
 Helix has opted for a higher amount of enemies rather than taunting you with the possibility of 
 attack for prolonged periods of time. 
  
  Many of the old SH2 enemies return (including a cameo appearance by an old fan favourite) , however 
 the 'ghosts' from The Room have thankfully returned to their grave for the latest journey into 
 the foggy streets of Silent Hill. But this time around, Double Helix has opted to try out a few 
 new variants that will attempt to cut your exploration short; and all of them are just as screwed 
 up and twisted as their older friends. 
  
  The atmosphere is Homecoming is difficult to describe, but I'll try and sum it up in one word: 
 intense. The constantly expanding fog, the streets that never seem to end, the crackle of your 
 radio as a nurse twitches violently from behind you are partly what makes Silent Hill so popular. 
 
  The slime-ridden sewers, the old-fashioned furniture of the Shepherd House, the rusty gears that 
 turn far beneath you as you descend into Hell itself... the contrast is vast and it allows an excellent 
 change in scenery as you progress through the game. 
  At times you will find yourself exploring the rapidly decaying Lakeview Hotel from SH2, and at 
 others you will be working your way around a huge boiler room. There are plenty of references to 
 SH2, and a few from The Room (I'm unaware of the locations from the original or SH3) , which alone 
 should give fans of the series a reason to try this game. 
  
  Much like The Room, Homecoming takes place in two locations: Shepherds Glen and, of course, Silent 
 Hill. The two areas are interchanged nicely, although they have a lot in common (fog, twisted creatures 
 etc) . 
  
  The improved graphics increase the intensity of the atmosphere, and seeing the walls peel away 
 to reveal the Otherworld was impressive (it seems the film has actually inspired a future installment 
 of the franchise) . Whilst not up to par with Bioshock, Gears of War or the upcoming Resident Evil 
 5, they were still nice to look at and made the experience a little more unsettling. 
  
  Combat isn't hugely different from previous Silent Hill games, but it has evolved to fit with the 
 next-gen fighting formula. Since Alex is a competent soldier, he is more capable at taking down 
 creatures by avoiding their attacks and slamming a pipe into their head when the opportunity arives. 
 Some may find the ability to counter-attack and aim with weapons features that result in an easier 
 gaming experience, but I suggest that rather than trusting other people's views on this you decide 
 for yourself. 
  
  Like the second game, Homecoming makes good use of puzzles that range from very easy to the insanely 
 difficult. It wouldn't be Silent Hill without them, and makes a change from the exploration and 
 combat segments in the game. 
  
  The plot - for which the game has been given a lot of criticism - isn't as bad as it has been made 
 out to be. It's not massively original, but it has a nice twist that I personally didn't expect. 
 I won't say much in order to prevent spoilers, but what I will say is that things aren't quite 
 what they seem when you first fire up the game and begin your search for your brother, Josh. 
 
  
  My main problems with the game weren't really that big a deal. At one instance a became sealed 
 off in a room, apparently having walked into a glitch where there was no escape, and I had to reload 
 from my last save point. The second is to do with difficulty; half-way through the game I was doing 
 everything I could to survive, having run out of medi-kits and ammunition, but by the end of the 
 game I was loaded with health bottles and overly powerful weapons. It didn't create much of a problem 
 in turns of how much fun I had, but it did present less of a challenge as the game came to a close. 
 
  
  My advice would be to buy Homecoming, or rent it if you are still a little unsure. The game retains 
 the multiple endings from the other installments, and the alterations between the 'normal' world 
 and the Otherworld makes it feel like 2 games in one. Sure, it's not as intense as Silent Hill 
 2, but that may be because I'm not 15 anymore. 
  
  It's an intensely fun (if you can call it that) experience that lasts a decent amount of time - 
 roughly 12-15 hours for your first run-through - and one that is guaranteed to make you ask the 
 question: just who the hell thinks up these twisted creatures standing in front of me?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevH1986
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:32 am PT
Review:  first of all, silent hill homecoming isnt an amazing game, but its not bad either.
  the storyline is a bit confusing at parts like when pyramid head shows up at random parts in the 
 game, which many fans of the silent hill franchise will realise doesn't make much sense (I'm not 
 going to go into it if you've played silent hill 2 you will know what I'm getting at) . 
  The controls can be a drawback as the camera doesnt turn round as fast as you would like it (and 
 there's no option to change this) but if you can get by these issues homecoming can be an enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  Akira Yamaoka is back to his best with the soundtrack which adds to the mood of the game, and there 
 are a lot of WTF moments which will keep you from playing the game in the dark. the boss fights 
 are great with easily the most memorable monster's created in the series and if you can get your 
 head round the fact that homecoming focuses a lot on fighting the creatures you come across with 
 combo's and the like (which hasn't really been a focus on any of the titles in the past) , this 
 is a must have for any silent hill fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 3:28 am PT
Review:  Since the horror genre has been going two titans have ruled it. Residen evil and Silent hill. They've 
 always been two diffrent kinds of scares though. Resi was always more in your face, Silent hill 
 did things diffrently. It left you very very disturbed but you couldnt figure out why because there 
 wasnt anything happening. Thats what made Silent hill that little bit better over resi for me. 
 So as we see resi to date being the king of the ring after the amazing 4th installment and 5 on 
 its way, SH seems to be limping on. After 4 very disturbing installments it seems the japs got 
 bored of making the games and gave it to the american chaps. They made origins which was a suprisingly 
 good game, but it just wansnt really the SH i've come to know and love. Now the 5th one is out 
 and after having waited 4 month longer than us brits should have, Was it really worth it? The answer 
 overall is no.
  The reason? well they've turned it into an all out american action/horror game. Instead of having 
 your mind play tricks and mess you up they've just gone "heres and axe, go chop things up" the 
 problem here is though while they want you to chop things up its very difficult to do it becuase 
 the only way to kill things seems to be dodge hit dodge hit. Kind of like final fantasy in a way. 
 Theres also the problem of the constant lack of healing items and constant enemys equals continues 
 galore.
  The main thing that has really pissed me off though is the film refrences. Now dont get me wrong 
 the film was crap but you could tell the director tried his best. Fair enough but why did they 
 guys that made this game (and even origins) decided it'd be a great idea to have the piramid head 
 from the film walking around. Along with the stupid jiving nurses? They were a million times better 
 and scarier from the original material. There is also the problem that while the story is pretty 
 good from start to finish its all abit to clear, past game had you playing but you really didnt 
 know what was goin on and always left a mystery to SH. Once again it all falls back on them using 
 alot of material from that **** film. Ok now while i've complained alot about the game im gonna 
 say that if you've never played a Sh game in you life (for shame!) you will enjoy it because overall 
 it is a great game. The story is really good and the lead character is a likable guy. The graphics 
 a really supurb with some awesome lighting effects. Theres plenty of weapons to choose from, and 
 while they have used alot of the film material there is alot of gritty atmosphere thats still there. 
 The new creatures while one or two again look like them from the film the actual new ones look 
 greatly gross. And while the new combat system is awkward its still a hell of alot better than 
 the previous games.
  
  Graphics: Supurb. Brilliant lighting with just some overall great eye candy. A little on the dark 
 side though.
  
  Sound: Thank god for Akira Yamaoka, he saves the day by creating another great score. The problem 
 is the soundtrack inst put to full potential because of the guns blazing gameplay. But overall 
 amazing.
  
  Gameplay: Improved alot but while they've fixed some things they created alot of downsides too.
 
  
  ****e Box: Based alot on that damn film!, Taken away the atmosphere thar made the SH games so special, 
 Awkward combat system, A clear storyline.
  
  Overall: If your a fan of the SH games then i dont really need to tell you the problems really. 
 But if you look past them there is a good game to enjoy here. Lets just hope next time they bring 
 back what made these games so good in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpw2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  So Double Helix brings us Silent Hill: Homecoming, a new developer, so the Silent Hill series is 
 not in the hands of Team Silent for a home console game for the first time.
  
  After Climax didn't do so badly on Origins sh fans' hopes were hightened on a different development 
 team being albe to handle making a sh game how its supposed to be. Double Helix has been given 
 the honur of bringing us the sixth installment of our beloved series, have they done the job? well 
 for me yes and no.
  
  Firstly the amtmosphere, yes I would say they have captured the sh atmosphere fairly well to an 
 extent, its dark, foggy and hs amazing freaky sounds (made by team silent memeber Akira Yamaoka 
 of course) that can make your skin crawl. But for me the presence of an american team developing 
 this game is too strong for me it feels very americanised and generic and for me this game hasnt 
 got plenty of the wtf moments in it compared with the older entries in the series and that to me 
 is what alot of sh is about. Alot of what happens in the game is nothing you have never seen before 
 in an older game in the series. The game also doesnt give you a feeling of walking through hell 
 and back like the previous games did its just like almost walking trought a normal abandoned building 
 with the lights off.
  
  There isnt many puzzles in the game either and when there is they are not very difficult. They 
 are also very generic and down to earth if you get what I mean, they are almost like a puzzle you 
 would find in a Resident Evil game, wheras in the previous games the puzzles were strange and harder 
 to figure out for example the puzzle of making a handle for the trap door in the prison section 
 in sh2, in which u make with a combination of wax a lighter and a horseshoe using the lighter to 
 melt the wax, but like re-wiring a fuse box which you do in Homecoming is just a bit to normal 
 and obvious for me not very Silent Hillish.
  
  As we all know the combat has been updated and given a poilsh. Now with the ability to dodge, roll 
 and perform fast and strong attacks and make them into a combo, Alex Sheppard can defend himself 
 better than past protagonists of the series. For me this change had been very welcoming making 
 the game a bit more exciting when fighting monsters. The monsters who are which in this installment 
 alot tougher than previous games so you need the updated gameplay to survive. The monsters I must 
 say are designerd vey well in my opinion with the exception of the smog who looks out of place 
 in the game for me.
  
  The story is interesting but doesnt seem completely original comaparing to other stories in the 
 series.
  
  So far I may have only seemed to be poking at the bad things with this game, but don't get me wrong 
 it is a very good game it is a very good survival horror in its own right and is very underrated, 
 I just don't think its perfect as a sh game its a bit too down to earth for me and borrows to heavily 
 from the movie. 
  
  I think any big fans of the series should play the game it is worth it its a very enjoyable game 
 I have found myself hooked, I would say it has just missed the mark of presenting paranoia and 
 wtf moments like the previous sh's did its not psychological enough and doesnt present feeling 
 of whats happening could be in the mind everyone seems to be able to see the monsters almost like 
 its a zombie infestation
  
  (MINOR SPOILER) Teaming up with a police officer and fighting off the monsters together is just 
 not something that happens in a sh game for me im sorry, although this is just a small cut-scene 
 I think this part is just not something you will see in Silent Hill you need to be presented with 
 the feeling of isolation and lonliness.
  
  Overall a really good game just missed the mark on the legendary sh style for me.
  
  The good: 
 Fun Combat, Great sounds and music, Decent graphics, Good monster design, Old school radio sound 
 from sh2 and 3,
  
  The bad: Can be fairly difficult sometimes, Far spread save points, very few supplies, Very generic, 
 Un original
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_rebelion
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok to start off, ignore everyone elses reviews. Seriously just imagine they are all invisible. 
 
  
  This game is one of the best in the series, ok maybe not as good as the second but that ones near 
 epic. For one it sets up a whole new town, that's what really brought me into it. Another is the 
 mere fact of all the family ties this had, it wasn't simply go find your lost daughter/son it was 
 a bit more and that's what I like to see. Also the fact that they didn't mess with the formula 
 unlike what happened to Resident evil, it didn't stray from it's roots.
  
  The graphics are superb, I like the way they made the ground and all other surroundings peel away 
 to create the darker side. Of course this is defiantly the BEST graphical wise in the series. 
 
  
  If there was one silent hill game everyone should overlook it'd be SH: The room.... and with that 
 said GO PLAY SH: Homecoming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomsoth
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Although I have given it a pretty low grade, this game does offer some good entertainment; especially 
 if you're a horror fan. The atmosphere is similar to that of previous Silent Hills: dark and foggy; 
 the boss fights are enjoyable to play; multiple endings; and there are some grotesque scenes that 
 are worth watching. Unfortunately, that's about the only positives that really stick out having 
 played this game. 
  
  All of those great things are hampered by so many glitches, the occasional bad camera angle, lack 
 of save points, short campaign, and the poor fighting system that hasn't improved since the first 
 Silent Hill. Glitches include: skipping certain cut scenes causes the game to freeze, certain pieces 
 of puzzles have to be completed after having been completed, and items disappearing. During fights, 
 the camera can be angled oddly not showing your character or your opponent. If you start the game 
 off playing it on the hard difficulty level, then prepare for frustration; there is a save point 
 about every 20 to 30 minutes of gameplay; sometimes even longer depending on the progress. If you 
 play the campaign on normal, then expect about 8 hours of gameplay; like I said above, at least 
 you have some sort of replay value with the multiple endings. And, finally, the fighting system. 
 While some fans of the series have grown comfortable with the system, it hasn't developed since 
 it's original release; it's clunky and can often times be frustrating; especially when trying to 
 dodge opponents.
  
  Other comments: During one of the previews/interviews, one of the developers spoke about the changing 
 between the two worlds of Silent Hill in "real time." I had high expectations for this; however, 
 it only occurs once and it's timed; otherwise, it only occurs during the cut scenes. I had hoped 
 for the cross cutting between the two worlds to happen more often during the gameplay or having 
 to switch between the two worlds in order to complete an objective. It's a disappointment to me.
 
  
  Also, I was disappointed how linear this game was compared to the other Silent Hills. One would 
 think that during this generation, one would have been able to walk around the entirety of both 
 worlds without the strict linearity.
  
  I wouldn't consider this a purchase unless you are just a diehard fan of the series, but I'd say 
 it's at least worth a rent and one play through. If anything, try the old Silent Hill games out 
 first; I find them to be more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  After playing the atrocity that was Silent Hill: Origins on the PlayStation 2 it was with much 
 trepidation that I approached Homecoming. The sixth entry in the Silent Hill series it was going 
 to be the second release not handled by Team Silent, instead placed in the care of Western developers. 
 This wasn't really a good thing in the last game, all the psychological horror was stripped away 
 and left out in the cold. It's not that the mechanics were bad but the story was too simplified 
 and ultimately uninteresting.
  
  The first real news we got about Silent Hill: Homecoming was that of the serious graphics upgrade 
 that the series was going to receive. But that's not all there is to the game by a long shot, there's 
 a lot of good and bad to be found within Homecoming.
  
  Your protagonist is Alex Shepherd, a young man recently discharged from the Army after being wounded 
 in battle. He arrives in his hometown of Shepherd's Glen to find it changed for the worse. The 
 streets are covered in an oppressive fog, odd creatures are seen moving around through the shadows 
 and there are barely anyone in sight. Searching for his brother Joshua he finds out that the boy 
 is among those who have gone missing since the fog rolled in. It will take all that Alex has to 
 surviving exploring the secrets of Shepherd's Glen, its link to the town of Silent Hill and delving 
 deep into his own past.
  
  The plot isn't really all that incredible but it retains the twisted roots that firmly plant it 
 in the Silent Hill mythos. To be sure, the main plot twist in this one can be seen coming if you're 
 perceptive enough but if you don't happen to see it coming it's a pretty big shock. The characters 
 are all fairly well defined by the end of the story and there aren't any expendable characters 
 to be found.
  
  One of the more controversial aspects of the Silent Hill series has been the combat. Generally 
 speaking the majority of enemy encounters are usually nothing more than an impediment to you from 
 getting to the next location, unveiling more of the twisted storyline. Homecoming tries to do away 
 with this by making the combat more interesting by taking advantage of the fact that Alex is a 
 trained soldier. Rather than just mashing on the attack button when you get near the enemy, combat 
 is much more active in this one and gun combat has been fairly deemphasized.
  
  Fighting the enemies is done with a light attack, strong attack and a dodge button. By mixing up 
 light and strong moves you can pull off combos, knocking enemies around or stunning them. If you 
 stun an enemy Alex can finish them off brutally with a finishing move that is unique to each monster. 
 The dodge maneuver is the more controversial aspect. By pressing it you can roll away from, dodge 
 to the side of or block enemy attacks. Once you get into the groove of using this it really trivializes 
 each encounter. This is actually a good thing since it means that you're not struggling with basic 
 encounters for the most part and can use your healing items for the bosses and harder enemies. 
 It feels really good to fight bosses fully prepared for them; not limping along because of a random 
 enemy like could happen with ease in Origins. 
  
  The biggest enhancement from previous games is the graphical upgrades. With dynamic lighting and 
 fantastic graphics the world of Silent Hill comes alive like never before. The atmosphere and creepy 
 visuals that we have all come to know and love has come to life in a way that only the newest generation 
 of consoles can show. All of the character models look great and the enemies move and look incredible, 
 like never before.
  
  It's apparent that the game has taken many cues from the movies, from the real time change to the 
 demonic Otherworld to the look of the Smog enemy, but even the brand new enemies all look great. 
 The bosses in particular are incredibly impressive while being immensely disturbing as well. One 
 the neatest additions are real time damage; slash a nurse along the chest and see the cut appear. 
 Some enemies will look like chopped meat by the time you're done with them.
  
  As you would expect for any Silent Hill game the audio is fantastic. The voice acting is better 
 than ever and Akira Yamaoka's musical work is as good as ever. As a matter of fact Homecoming is 
 the first of the series that has made me go out and deliberately find the soundtrack so that I 
 could own it. The opening song, sung once again by Mary Elizabeth McGlynn, is an especially good 
 standout amongst exceptional tracks.
  
  Silent Hill: Homecoming is a good game but only as much as you bring from it. If you don't look 
 deeper into the story and see the things that were inferred in such a subtle way as to be missed 
 you're only depriving yourself. It may not be the best game in the series but it's a step up from 
 the decline the series took after Silent Hill 2. Just remember the number "206" as it carries quite 
 a lot of meaning, perhaps more so than the game readily shows.
  
  Score: 4/5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joman1000
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  Speaking as a devout Silent Hill fan since day one, I can't help but say that this game completely 
 lacks the flavor and depth of every previous game. Even while the development team was being interviewed 
 before the game's release it was more than obvious that these wholesome, happy-go-lucky Joe Everymen 
 didn't have what it takes to create a truly disturbing survival horror experience.
  
  I'm not saying the game didn't have its strong suits; the graphics, for one, are very impressive. 
 The fog-shrouded streets of Silent Hill couldn't be more convincing, and the expressions on each 
 of the characters' faces are more emotional and believable than any other game in the series. There 
 is also one demon in particular that I absolutely loved; it had blades for hands and legs, the 
 torso of what must have once been human and walks like a spider. But unfortunately, a clean coat 
 of polish and a handful of new concepts and characters isn't enough to hide the utter lack of aesthetic 
 value in this game.
  
  I remember my first time playing through the first three Silent Hill games. Each one was poetry 
 in its own way... each one was like peering into the nightmarish psyches of the protagonists. Not 
 only that, when you researched the characters and locations in the games, everything had some kind 
 of bizarre relevance. For example, in Silent Hill 2, Pyramid Head's demon represents the anonymity 
 of the executioners from Toluca Prison. But, much like in the Silent Hill movie, Pyramid Head's 
 appearance in Silent Hill: Homecoming is a superficial attempt at pleasing fans. It's almost as 
 bad as the pointless abundance of big-breasted nurses that pop up everywhere you go for no reason 
 whatsoever. Their place in the previous games was in the hospital, which requires no explanation.
 
  
  But all inconsistencies aside, the game simply isn't scary. Instead of only being able to see 10 
 feet in front of your face as you tread down the hallways of some Clive Barker-esque nightmare, 
 your vision is most impaired when you're walking down the streets of the disappointly small and 
 unexciting depictions of Silent Hill and Shepherd's Glen. When you finally make it to the alternate 
 versions of various locales, instead of being thrown into a world of sepia and red color palates, 
 where the walls are caked with blood and rust and the floors are a thin sheet of chain link peering 
 down into an endless pit of darkness, you're presented with the cliche' orange glow of fire below 
 you and steam venting from massive, silly looking pipes. Lame.
  
  And is it just me, or does Alex Shepherd's dad look like the old guy from 'Lost?'
  
  The one 
 saving grace for me was Akira Yamaoka's outstanding soundtrack; the talented producer continues 
 to rape the senses with his mixture of Nine Inch Nails' "Downward Spiral"-style industrial sounds 
 and Massive Attack-esque downtempo vibes. I can only hope he starts to see work outside of the 
 videogame industry, especially considering Konami has abandoned their Japanese roots and given 
 the series to a bunch of unqualified American cream puffs.
  
  Maybe I set my expectations too high. Maybe it was wrong of me to expect Silent Hill: Homecoming 
 to incite insomnia and paranoia like every single other game did. But then again, if something 
 has a lot to live up to and it falls short, people aren't going to just "like it for what it is."
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boogyman1234432
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 9:43 am PT
Review:  I admit its fun for a while, but it seems a wee bit short.
  
  The graphics are nice and the monsters are as disturbing as ever. But the lack of weapon varity 
 that the series usally give isn't here. The fighting is great and bosses are good but it seems 
 its the same hack, hack, shoot, shoot. In SH3, you had to attack one boss right or he would deflect 
 it, causeing us to think on how to get around it. Here in Homecoming, its very linear. The story 
 is cool and has some back bone but it lacks a certain interest factor. The levels are nice but 
 they're just linear. No real differnce on hard mode, not like in the other games where items would 
 vary and cause you to explore more and be more cleaver. 
  
  
  Everyone has there own veiw, rent it and if you like it, buy it, if not send it back and get something 
 else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clauwman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  NOTE: This is an un-biased review of Silent Hill: Homecoming by me, clauwman. What I mean by un-biased, 
 is that I have never played any of the first four games, although, I do know some basic back round 
 info on them.
  
  In the game, your character explores a rusty, blood-covered cathedral in search of the final piece 
 to his puzzle. He turns a corner to find a magnificent stone statue, that is detailed, dark, and 
 disturbingly fits the mood of room. There's also lots of bugs crawling all over it. This is a metaphor 
 for Silent Hill: Homecoming; it's a beautiful game, covered in bugs.
  
  You are Alex Shepherd. A man who has served in the Army, and is dismissed due to an injury. He 
 is haunted by dreams telling him that his little brother is in trouble, so he journeys back home 
 in search of him. As he arrives to his home town, Shephard's Glen, he finds nothing but a bunch 
 of "Missing Person" fliers and fog. Being the big bad American tough guy, you have to find out 
 WTF is going on.
  
  This game is done by developer Double Helix, and American based developer, instead of the same 
 Japenese developing group before it. While this may mean nothing to you, ITS A BIG DEAL. While 
 Western developers tend to make things more appealing, the Japenese have proven they are the masters 
 of the scary (EX: Resident Evil series) . Thankfully, Double Helix delivers. 
  
  There's only one way to say this: This game is f***in' scary. The monsters that you fight are unlike 
 anything that you've ever seen, and so imaginative, that you'll wonder "Who came up with this sh**!?!?" 
 And that makes a HUGE difference. You play a zombie game, and you're like "Oh, it's a zombie.". 
 Well, what the hell do you do when the seven-limbed-smog-spewing beast closes in on you?!? The 
 exact same thing can be said for the chilling environments. All this is backed up and complemented 
 by great graphics, lighting, and fog effects.
  
  Sound deserves it's own freekin' paragraph! It kicks ass, and is possibly the best element in the 
 game. You've seen those Dr. Pepper commercials telling you to drink it slow? Awwww yeah. The sound, 
 rather, THIS GAME deserves to be taken in slow. So, turn off the lights and turn up the volume. 
 Let the game take over.
  
  Listen: your steps on the rusted metal catwalk, the squishy sound of the walls oozing blood..... 
 what was that.... OH MY GOD WHAT IS THAT!!! I know; I scared myself a little.
  
  The Bad: 
  -As I said this game's a bit buggy. A little bit in each category. The AI f***s up 
 occasionally. For example: I took my last couple finishing blows out on the final boss with ease. 
 The damn thing couldn't move or attack.
  - Cut-scenes sometimes show visual blemishes or funky lighting. 
  - While the combat system is 
 easy to learn, and fits well with the weaponry, it's a tad clunky. Might give you one or two cheap 
 deaths overall.
  - A few levels had respawning enemies and that RUINED said levels. #$!@*^, WHY DOUBLE HELIX?!? 
 WHY!!!
  -They give you, like, five save points through out the entire thing.
  
  The End of the Game:
  -Was awesome! I really liked it. By the way, the story stays pretty simplistic 
 most of the game, but then gives you an understandable twist that I loved. Also, there's 5 different 
 endings you can get!
  
  The Verdict: 8 out 10 pts.
  - AT LEAST worth a rent. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2009 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge Silent Hill fan. I loved every game up til Origins ( Big let down to me, another time 
 though ) and I couldnt wait to get my hands on Homecoming.
  At first liked the way they changed up the combat to be more involving. It really keeps you on 
 your toes while you duck and dodge your way around an emeny and chop it with your axe or smack 
 it with a pipe. It was (at 1st ) a wonderful improvement I though. But then it seemed like the 
 enemies got so hard and no matter how much ducking and dodging you did they wailed on you till 
 you were missing half your health. It got to be super frustrating and I had to be so exactly presice 
 with my attacks to keep from taking damage. It got to be so stupid! And on top of that, the pistol 
 only holds 27 bullets total. And the shotgun only 8. Thats stupid! the previous games let you hold 
 tons more than that! ( Minor complaint though.)
  They added alot of new and cool enemies this time around with keeping some of the old ones like 
 the creepy Nurses. Some of the coolest new enemies I thought were the Lurker who drags itself along 
 the ground and has a sideways mouth for a face. And the Siam which is made up of all jumbles of 
 body parts, like legs for arms and hands for a mouth! Super creepy and awesome! Very Silent Hill!
 
  Anyway, the game still has that nice dark and bone-chilling feel to it. I enjoyed the way it definetly 
 felt like a Silent Hill game. Cool music and decent sound effect gave it that Silent Hill feel. 
 Pyramid Head shows up a few times too and that made me so happy! Hes like my all time favorite 
 Silent Hill baddie and I was so pleased to see him slowly walk pass me on the screen dragging his 
 huge bloody blade. I add a couple points for that. Haha
  Though one thing that pissed me off was the darkness. And I mean darkness! I had to adjust my TV 
 to like super bright just to see where I was going. WTF?!
  So if your looking for a nice challenging combat with some wonderfully scary settings and enemies 
 this is a great Silent Hill. Im not sure that it would be great for anyone who hasnt played a Silent 
 Hill game before though, just because it lacks the game play to take on a new audience. i dont 
 know though. I suggest everyone try it out for themselves! 
  If not for anything else you gotta at least see Pyramid Head!! Hehe
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uhateit
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  This is the first Silent Hill gave I have ever played. I enjoy the horror style games with a lot 
 of scare tactics involved and this one definately has that. 
  
  There is plenty of scare and I will admit that I juts like crazy at a few times when you enter 
 a room and barely turn around to see a nurse in your face or something of that sort.
  
  The controls are broken which is what threw me off about the game. I had a terrible time trying 
 to be the first main boss. There isn't a lot of health packs out there, so if you get to a section 
 and you dont have enough health and have to play it over and over and over and over and over again 
 to try to beat it when you come so close everytime just needing a tad bit more health is what pissed 
 me off. If there were more health packs around that would have helped out a lot.
  
  If you're looking for a scary game this is a scary one! It's pretty long too, due to many many 
 video scenes, but they will help to tell the story. But try to get this game for cheap, I wouldn't 
 recommend paying $60 for any game out there by any means thats just ridiculous! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  YAYS
  - amazing atmosphere
  - visual effects and graphics are superb
  - an actually comprehensible story
  - a good acting lead character
  
  NAYS
  - combat is 
 either too easy or too difficult
  - absolutely useless flashlight
  - relies on too many cliches
  
  The Silent Hill universe is admittedly a great one. A town 
 thrown in fog, a weird cult and demons make a perfect setting for our lead characters to explore 
 their own demented psyche. While the series has shifted focus from the Alessa/Dhalia issue, the 
 experience has transformed into exploring the character's individual problems, which may pose a 
 problem to people trying to understand what the heck is going on.
  
  Alex Shepherd is the main character this time, a veteran of war who just returned home. Home is 
 Shepherd's Glen, not Silent Hill. Though you travel into that dreary place in the final portion 
 of the game, you spend the good majority of it in your own little community.
  
  The story isn't a spectacular one but by all means it is much more explained (and makes more sense) 
 than the previous outings. The main issue is the pacing - it develops rather too slowly for it 
 to be interesting and then it becomes increasingly complex and fulfilled later on in the game. 
 It's unfortunate that you have to wander for such a long time with no real motive than following 
 your brother Joshua, similar to what Harry did in the first game. However, should you manage to 
 reach the final portions, the story becomes clear and interesting.
  
  The arch-story of the Order is also touched upon, though it may require your previous knowledge 
 to understand what is going on. Interestingly there is no mention of Alessa or Dhalia, both of 
 which serve the most important story elements in the Silent Hill universe.
  
  Traversing the game, you encounter your usual horde of Silent Hill enemies. Most of them have been 
 done a countless times before, and a lot of them have been revamped to take on the creepiness presented 
 in the movie. The new enemies are mostly annoying rather than intimidating. Sadly enough, none 
 of the enemies is scary or terrifying, and the bosses are not exactly threatening despite their 
 menacing look. Pyramid Head makes a wonderful appearance, and players with previous history know 
 what he is capable of. Unfortunately, his part in the story has been served fully in Silent Hill 
 2, and his presence here - bar one scene - has no significant value other than fan service.
  
  In fact it seems that the whole game is made of recycled material. You'd go through your usual 
 hospitals and apartment buildings, some underground cavern and a cemetery and your usual roads. 
 There's nothing particularly new here. The game is basically a new representation of what has already 
 been done and established.
  
  The graphics have been tremendously improved and locales looked never better. The transformation 
 to the Otherworld is done in real time, and it looks as scary and atmospheric as ever. A small 
 aspect though significantly hinders the experience, which is the flashlight. In previous games 
 it produced a great atmosphere. Here, it is useless. In fact you truly wouldn't tell the difference 
 with the flashlight off or on. Considering the game in inherently dark, most of the game's architecture 
 is actually not visible. You wouldn't see how disgusting something is or gory until you walk right 
 up to it. The Otherworld especially suffers from this, as some locals are pretty much open and 
 pitch black, making the whole Otherworld a pointless experience.
  
  Worse yet is the fact that in significant portions of the Otherworld (except a couple) is the absence 
 of enemies. You'd traverse a huge portion in the supposedly disturbing setting only to solve a 
 puzzle or confront a boss fight. 
  
  Bosses are surprisingly easy to get rid off, more so than your average enemy. Alex has a great 
 skill in disposing enemies. Being able to dodge and block attacks, as well as having several attacks 
 of his own makes combat easy once you learn your enemies' movements. A couple of your average enemies 
 though are quite difficult to kill and could cause you more problems than even the final boss. 
 What makes boss battles insignificant though, other than them being underpowered, is the fact that 
 there is no emotional connection to them. It's not like in Silent Hill 1 where you had to fight 
 your own daughter, for example, or in Origins where you had to fight your parents.
  
  Puzzles make a semi-triumphant return. The actual puzzles themselves range from normal/typical 
 to brilliant. The main downside of the puzzles is that they do not ever reset, which often makes 
 a difficult puzzle impossible to solve if you mess it up badly. 
  
  Other glitches also pop up in the game. Transforming to the Otherworld sometimes made the game 
 darker than it should be (and already is) and only by dying and reloading would you tell the difference. 
 While Alex performs great, other characters are pretty much absurd. Your usual corridors filled 
 with locked doors make an annoying cameo, and this time Alex doesn't turn his head to an open door 
 like Travis did in Origins.
  
  In general terms, Silent Hill 5 looked really great in concept and on paper. The atmosphere is 
 right, and the graphic engine is powerful and so are the effects. However some gameplay elements, 
 lots of backtracking and - most annoying of all - the very dark locales are more horrific than 
 whatever psychological horror the game attempts to throw at you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maddaus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  This game has gotten harsh judgement. I'm not sure why. I've played through the entire game and 
 I found it to be pretty true to the series. Granted the last Silent Hill I played was part 1 possibly 
 part 2.
  
  The Monsters: The monsters were all really cool, the great thing the developers did here is that 
 you do not NEED to have guns & ammo to kill them. Although it does feel like it at times as alot 
 of the monsters are pretty intimidating. I found the bosses easier with just the knife. I love 
 the sexy nurses (with ugly faces) that walk like they came out of the movie The Ring.
  
  The Controls: The controls are decent, my complaints are that when you roll forward, you don't 
 seem to roll very far at all. That and sometimes when you are dodging to the side, you will dodge 
 right back to the place you started.
  
  The Gameplay: The puzzles were pretty good, although it didn't seem like you had to look around 
 very hard for clues. One thing I have to thank the developers for is that you don't have to double 
 back very often... there was one part of the game where I walked through the same area 10 times 
 but that was mostly my own stupidity. The fog and broken roads give off a nice feeling of desolation.
 
  
  A. I. : Late in the game, the people in radiation suits have a nasty habit of playing too nice when 
 you are fighting more than one. They will wait for you to kill the one you are attacking before 
 joining the fight. I only had it on "Hard" mode but I found it a nice gesture on the part of the 
 bad men all the same.
  
  
  Also true to the series.. as if the regular town wasn't bad enough, it changes from time to time 
 to a skeleton of dilapidated rusty metal. This happens only in buildings which I felt was an improvement 
 from clanking through a whole town. I didn't find myself in pure terror like I did with Silent 
 Hill 1... but I was 15 or 16 when I played that one and I'm 25 now. Alot of people probably don't 
 take that into account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic1962
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Though I never had the pleasure of playing the original Silent Hill on the PS1 I have been a fan 
 of the series since SH2 and was eagerly awaiting the opportunity to play the new entry in the series 
 on the 360. In this installment you are Alex Shepherd, a soldier who was relieved of duty after 
 some unknown injury. Alex returns to his home of Shepherd's Glen to find his father and younger 
 brother missing, and his mother almost in a coma. What follows is Alex's adventure as he tries 
 to find his brother. 
  
  Gameplay (7.5) - Homecoming goes in a bit of a different direction from previous titles when it 
 comes to combat. In older titles, the fighting was so clunky and your character was so useless 
 that running was almost your best chance for survival. With Alex we have a soldier that knows how 
 to use weapons and can hold his own against these monsters. Alex not only can put together combo 
 strikes but can dodge as well. Unfortunately the combat is still a bit rough and can't compare 
 to other games that really focus on this aspect. There were many times that Alex did not dodge 
 or strike when I expected him to, which generally still wasn't much of an issue against the typical 
 monsters but it did become frustrating in some of the much tougher Boss battles. This is offset 
 a bit by the abundance of health items and gun ammo you'll find, at least on the normal difficulty. 
 When you're not in combat or exploring you'll be solving puzzles. While I'm not generally too fond 
 of puzzles I found most of these to be fun as they weren't too difficult and simply took a small 
 amount of trial and error.
  
  Graphics (8.0) - While the story is interesting, Silent Hill is really about the atmosphere. Homecoming 
 is a pretty good looking game. It's one of those games that can be a stunning visual experience 
 though some of the individual parts may be a bit lacking. The visual style is stunning, and draws 
 heavily upon the older games in the series with its heavy fog and disturbing creatures. An impressive 
 new feature is watching SH transform into its own version of Hell. Taking a cue from the movie 
 the horns blare, the paint starts peeling off the walls which become pulsating, living things and 
 stuff in general just get really bad. As great as these things are there still some issues. Textures 
 are muddy and ugly in some cases, and the whole game is too dark in general. The camera is also 
 a bit clunky in tight spaces and facial animations of the characters can be a bit off, but other 
 than that, the game looks pretty good.
  
  AUDIO (8.5) - The game sounds good thanks to a great soundtrack and sound effects. The score does 
 a great job of setting the mood. Sound effects are also really well done and the mixture of small 
 noises and big ones all work together to have you so paranoid you won't want to leave your fighting 
 stance. Voice work is certainly above average and very believable.
  
  Value (7.5) - I'm guessing the game took me somewhere between 12 to 15 hours to complete. It comes 
 with the series' trademark multiple endings to discover, which adds a nice chunk of content for 
 those that are interested. Depending on the ending you get you may receive different costumes and 
 weapons for a second playthrough, which is an interesting touch.
  
  SUMMARY - For those that have never played any of the games it can be difficult to describe exactly 
 what the SH experience is. Even with all of games based on this town, it has never been fully comprehensible. 
 No matter how you look at it one thing is for sure, Silent Hill is a seriously disturbed place. 
 This is one of those games that seriously earns its M rating and if you are turned off by extreme 
 violence or gore then this game is definitely not for you. In my case, while I do not like to watch 
 movies with this type of content it does not bother me to play videogames that contain it, go figure. 
 At any rate it's my opinion that most professional reviewers underrated this title as you'll see 
 that most gamers gave it a higher score. Definitely recommended for fans of the series, and while 
 I would recommend new players to try to play the older games first it's not actually necessary. 
 If you accept the fact that combat is not its strong point and can appreciate the strong atmosphere 
 then new players can have an immersive experience as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Number1sikko
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Controls is where is really falters, especially the battle system. Its quite horrendous. Very short 
 on scares. The story has no real substance to it at all. Its like a "been there, done that" thing 
 with this game. Sure there are a few new monsters thrown in the mix and a new town but it just 
 wasn't what i was expecting one bit. Not the worst game in the world. One thing i found to be really 
 annoying was there a lack of health in the sewers creating more of a difficulty and along with 
 the weak fighting system it turned something that should have been fun and easy into something 
 just plain aggravating. When have silent hill monsters been able to reflect your bullets like it 
 was a tank? That's not how silent hill should be. It should be scary not annoying. Overall i found 
 it to be very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YTDawg19
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  I thought it had a great story line. Loved that it has multiple endings, which make it playable 
 over and over again. Each ending was a surprise to me. I like the way to get to play god in many 
 ways during the game. The controls were okay but not that great but it was still playable. I don't 
 want to give away anything about the game. Its not up there with Silent Hill 1, 2, or 3, but I 
 think its better that Silent Hill 4 and the PSP Silent Hill. The story seems to have been thought 
 out more than the past to Silent Hill games made by the US, but Japan still has these US versions 
 beat. If the US could make a Silent Hill game like Japan made the first 3, then they would have 
 a masterpiece on their hands. I hope that they continue to make more of these games because they 
 are getting better at the story, but they need to work on the controls a bit more. Can't wait till 
 a new Silent Hill is made! A Must Play!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadynate82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Starting this game I wondered if Homecoming could do what I enjoyed from the Silent Hill 1 and 
 2 did for me so long ago. At the time of this review for nostalgia purposes I started playing Silent 
 Hill 1 again. With the origin of the genre still fresh in my mind with the mix of Homecoming I 
 wrote this review.
  
  Good: The environments are solid with uneasy images combined with excellent ambiance and music. 
 Combat has received an upgrade and it makes it worth while to stop and fight back. The Silent Hill 
 vibe is all here so what more can you ask for?
  
  Bad: the story is a bit lagging I felt like I was getting teased with what's going throughout most 
 of the game. The back-tracking was somewhat annoying but I guess you have to do it.
  
  If you played Silent Hill and enjoy the series then try it out. At least play it especially in 
 the dark. Regardless of what some of the reviews say I think what makes for some great Silent Hill 
 gaming, you will find in this new installment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryu_San
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 27, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  While playing "Homecoming", it becomes instantly clear what the designers at Double Helix were 
 thinking before creating the game - here is "Silent Hill", a saga known for its great ambiance, 
 twisted aesthetic and psychological horror; unfortunately, it's marred by clunky gameplay, poor 
 combat systems, impenetrable storylines and complex puzzles. As a consequence, they thought - we 
 can fix the latter while maintaining the "good" portions of "Silent Hill" - their sin was in not 
 understanding that there was a connection between those two halves. Of course, what followed next 
 is completely logical, considering the basis of their reasoning - they looked for the best example 
 they could find in terms of the genre, namely "Resident Evil 4, and adapted some of its 
 core mechanics to the artistic and narrative content, which constituted the core of the "Silent 
 Hill" experience. Thus "Silent Hill Homecoming" is the product of that line of thinking. The enjoyment, 
 or lack thereof, which you can extract from this episode in the series is directly proportional 
 to your acceptance of Double Helix's vision. If you don't understand (or simply don't care about) 
 the fundamental differences between the conceptual nature of the "Resident Evil" and "Silent Hill" 
 series, then "Homecoming" is surely a great horror game for you. It's not scary, but it's entertaining, 
 that's for sure. But if you understand that which separates both series, than you will arrive at 
 the same conclusion as I have: "Homecoming" is a "Silent Hill" game destined to fall.
  
  The first big departure for the series (even when considering "0rigins") is that for once, you 
 play a hero type. Meet Alex Shepherd, a war veteran with the combat skills to back up his military 
 credentials; he swings the knife like a fast forwarded Steven Seagal, dodges attacks like a "Tekken" 
 character, lunges the axe while jumping in the air (for extra attack power) , and he can accurately 
 shoot with any gun, even when the target is several yards away - just like your everyday action 
 hero. At the helm of this mini-superman, combat is hectic and frantic, and for once in a Silent 
 Hill pretty challenging, just like you'd expect in a modern action game. Needless to say, this 
 breaks up any psychological horror mood the game's aesthetic might provoke unto the player. With 
 its focusing on action instead of adventure, a "Silent Hill" game could never work, but "Homecoming" 
 goes further and consistently avoids exploration, featuring a 100% linear level design flow, and 
 any sort of puzzle which might make you scratch your head for more than a minute. But it goes deeper.
 
  
  Alex enters his hometown in the hope of coming back to his family after the war, only to find out 
 that his father and baby brother went missing. Fearing for his brother, he starts looking for him 
 in Shepherd's Glen, until he is finally lead into the dark halls of Silent Hill. Though it winks 
 at "Jacob's Ladder" (as previous "Silent Hills" had) , the storyline develops in an awfully linear 
 form, and even the final plot twists can be predictable and dull. More importantly, the surrealist 
 framing is missing. Characters act out as expected from a Hollywood movie, their psychological 
 profiles being simple and borderline archetypal, their lines feature no literal nuances, cryptic 
 messages or unsettling tones which, of course, is odd and above all, incoherent with the otherwise 
 surreal scenario which surrounds them. There are also no freakish events, apart from those which 
 we already take for granted in a "Silent Hill": a mist covers the whole vale, monsters lurk in 
 every corner, day can suddenly turn to night; but nothing which could catch you off-guard. Plot 
 events and locations tend to mimic western horror movies, like "Night of the Living Dead", "Assault 
 on Precinct 13, and much to my dismay, even torture movies such as "Hostel". The lack of 
 the bizarre and the psychological mind games of yore, in favor of a gory and gruesome experience 
 feels, pardon my bluntness, like an artistic rape to "Silent Hill".
  
  The hole shouldn't go any deeper, but it does. The overall quality aesthetic work of Team Silent 
 is nowhere to be found. This sad fact is reflected in all details: character design and animations 
 are technically incompetent and artistically poor, even by "non-Silent Hill" standards; monster 
 design is uninspired and inconsistent, not to mention deprived of any subtle symbolism or allegoric 
 relationship with characters; Akira Yamaoka's soundtrack is not only one of his less virtuous, 
 as it's squandered away by a poor sound mix and downright lame directing which consistently mishandles 
 the moods each track is meant to provoke. To end this spiral of mediocrity, the art design team, 
 for some random reason, opted to use as reference the conceptual art of the movie, instead of that 
 from previous games. Why would that be a problem you might ask. Not only does the idea seem ill-fated 
 (the art design of the game based on the movie based on the game) , as it misses an important principle 
 of artistic design, which lies in the bond between a work's concept and its execution. Let me exemplify: 
 unlike the games, one of the major themes in the movie was a fire which had burnt the whole town 
 to the ground. All of the art design motif's reflected this theme: the fog was dark-grey instead 
 of milky white, and very was ash-y looking; metallic surfaces bore fiery and vibrant red hues, 
 in opposition with the brownish rust of the game; the transition to the otherworld used an effect 
 where the scenario peeled away, just like paint does in a fire. In "Homecoming" there is no fire 
 theme, and as such, those references make absolutely no sense. Not to mention all of the less appropriate 
 elements which were already present in the movie (such as the overly sexual nurses) , now inexplicably 
 ported into a "Silent Hill" game.
  
  Every fear a "Silent Hill" fan might have concerning a new game is now fully realized in "Homecoming". 
 It's a meager, unsatisfying attempt of a western developer at reinterpreting a Japanese series, 
 without any imagination or artistry to even mimic what made the originals groundbreaking at the 
 time. It's a simpler, more linear and completely mainstream game, which lacks identity and any 
 redeeming quality. Even Climax, when designing "0rigins", despite all its flaws, did a better job. 
 "Homecoming" lays at the bottom of an endless pit, to where it drove one of the most precious and 
 visionary works ever to appear in the videogame medium. There is no light at the end of this chasm 
 "Silent Hill" is officially dead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheNoobster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I had my doubts when I bought the game. Being a long time fan of the Silent Hill series I was worried 
 about a new team behind the reins. I've played the game and can safely say that while Homecoming 
 is nowhere near SH2 or 3, it might just be a step back in the right direction.
  
  Silent Hill 2 was actually the first game of the series I played and so far no other has met it 
 in terms of story, shocking moments and horror. After playing the fourth game I was sure Silent 
 Hill was dead. Then Homcoming came out.
  
  Story: It had a lot of potential, but often failed to live up to it. Many of the games story based 
 aspects were great like the whole idea of a dark family secret being behind the current state of 
 the town. But even these felt weak and lacking substance. Much of the game was spent wandering 
 around through abondoned buildings finding keys to open doors. The story was rarely fleshed out 
 in the actual game. In fact, the awesome cutscenes were often the best part of the whole game! 
 Atmosphere: This was easily the best part of Homecoming. Akira Yamaoka is back and still completley 
 brilliant. The HD graphics were amazing, showing every gritty detail in the creatures and their 
 real time wounds. The enviornments were great, even if they were often familiar to any Silent Hill 
 vet.
  
  Gameplay: This was unfortunetley a weak part in Homecoming. The combat system was good but it just 
 didn't fit with silent hill. Alex, being so good at fighting, never had a problem with most of 
 the enemies and the game rarely gives you the option to sneak around them. The enviornments were 
 too linear, offering endless hallways with endless amounts of locked doors and only one right way 
 to do things. The camera, although an improvement, needed to be a fixed view at certain points 
 in the game to give it that cinematic style The enemy designs and boss battles, however, were often 
 quiet good.
  
  Scare Factor: WEAK!! This game just wasn't scary. Yes, there were some creepy parts but that's 
 it... creepy. I miss being scared shi*less at one in the morning afraid that a doorway to hell would 
 open beneath my bed. The combat system and the general lack of scary occurences GREATLY decreased 
 this games score. Could have been a 9 easily.
  
  Pyramid Head: I was actually one of the people who wanted to see pyramid head in this game (not 
 beleiving in the whole "only James can see him" theory) but he was rarely used. Having only gotten 
 one of the endings (Smile!) I only saw him in two cutscenes. TWO!
  
  No matter how badly The Collective may have dropped the ball on Homecoming it's still a step in 
 the right direction. I think that if they step back, rethink the combat and story and make the 
 next one actually scary then we could have another SH2 in our hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raul_albelda
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is a piece of crap yhea i think the konami guys are just blowing away his good games 
 and this game its a decepccion for me enemies are just creatures non sense ceatures should be ghost 
 and more weird stuff like in the room the puzzles are a CRAP make the game hiperboring and have 
 no sense the control are bad and the camera is the worst the story is sooooo baaaaaaadddddddd i 
 mean is a CRAP like the whole game is the worst konami game i ever play in mi entire life seriously 
 dont spend ur money in this piece of crap for the first time konami do a crap that is unplayable 
 and its soooooooooo but sooooooooooooooooo booooooring and frustrating if u want really cool and 
 with sense puzzles buy portal =) coz this non sense puzzles only will kill you of boring and the 
 game in fact its frustraiting and the game i coz thsi game is a piece of crap in all the expression 
 of the word.! (H) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 288819
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Now i'm a big silent hill fan and honestly what I think ruined this franchise is Silent hill 4. 
 That game was the biggest disaster anyone could ever ask for.
  As for silent hill 5, I thought the game was good but very hard at times. I don't like the fact 
 that you barely get any ammo and the weapons except the knife and guns take forever to make a hit. 
 by the time you get you fire axe or pipe out to hit a creature youv'e already sustained damage. 
 The knife is the best way to go and conserve your ammo! another problem was the first boss battle, 
 it's hard for a first boss battle and it seemed all the other boss battles got easier. It seemed 
 to me, the bigger the creature, minus the insects, the easier they were to kill? strange to me. 
 Graphics were good, chilling story line, good music once again. I just loved the first level when 
 going through the hospital strapped don to a bed, now i've seen that on a movie called jacobs ladder 
 and hostel, great use of inspiration. To me, the beggining of the game and towards and through 
 the end of the game were the best parts, the middle parts of the game could have been much better. 
 I especially hate the underground passage, big time mistake on this game. Those damn needlers are 
 everywhere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbaquaw
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  As almost any Silent Hill fan can tell you, the series has lately been a disheveled mess. First 
 we got a game called Silent Hill 4: The Room, which was a totally different game that added to 
 some of the series side stories while out-casting a great number of fans. Then came a silver screen 
 adaptation: Silent Hill The Movie. This production obviously caused a split among the fans once 
 again with some believing it was great, and the others believing it was a sign from the heavens 
 that we are all screwed. Add a bunch of crappy comics that practically anyone (Fan or not) would 
 most likely cry the words "Sweet Blasphemy! Why?" too, and then a PSP prequel: Silent Hill Origins. 
 A mixed bag game that proved to fans that "Hey, Europeans know what Silent Hill is, buy it!" but 
 at core felt a little unoriginal.
  
  Now, 4 years from the release Silent Hill 4, Team Silent (The original master minds behind Silent 
 Hill 1-4) has disbanded and Konami faced the task of finding a developer that understood the personal 
 hell of Silent Hill at heart, and thus settled on what is now Double Helix. Definitely causing 
 an uproar among fans, they faced a daunting challenge.
  
  Did they succeed? In short, Hell Yes.
  
  Homecoming starts out in a series landmark, The Alchemilla 
 Hospital. Our game's protagonist turns out to be a soldier who was wounded in combat named Alex 
 Shepard. The story then takes us back to the town of Shepard's Glenn (Notice the name?) and later 
 on Silent Hill. With almost everyone missing, your Mother is now in a catatonic state, Joshua (Your 
 little brother) is missing along with your father, things are definitely screwed up.
  
  Many would believe that the story is simple and a little unoriginal, and I thought that too just 
 by reading the cover, but it turns out to be a stellar story that grabs you by the jugular and 
 throws you into this bloody world. As true to past Silent Hill games, the characters draw you in 
 and will make you hate some and love others. Thanks to better dialogue, damn good voice acting, 
 and cinematic cut scenes, improving on some of the flat points in past Silent Hill games (Disagree? 
 Remember Henry ask "Are you ok?" to a girl laying in a pool of blood? Nothing like that here) . 
 
  
  Probably one of the biggest changes here is the revamped combat system. Now this is a love it or 
 hate it thing. With the inclusion of a dodge attack, Power and light attacks, plus actually having 
 to think of a strategy to defeat monsters, this is definitely a right step for the series. Don't 
 worry. Alex's combat experience means nothing to an AI system that will literally destroy you. 
 This is probably one of the best AI I have seen in a video game. But there is also the option to 
 sneak past some monsters, which can really provide some tense moments.
  
  There is now a faster inventory menu system in the shape of an over lay wheel that is divided into 
 Weapons and Items, each assigned to there own buttons. Thankfully, it pauses the game when you 
 access them. There is less ammo in this game so you really have to manage your use of guns over 
 melee weapons.
  
  As true to Silent Hill fashion, Homecoming creates tons of new mythos while solving some old ones. 
 Monsters are based on subconscious demons, although some of them are really not that apparent as 
 to what they represent. The sociological and psychological elements and horror is here. This game 
 IS scary, definitely on the level of Silent Hill 3. 
  
  With the inclusion of epic and creative boss battles, real time other-world shifts and beautiful 
 graphics, the atmosphere is always tense and you will be on edge the entire bloody ride through. 
 
  
  But every game is not a game without faults. The game does borrow a little to many references to 
 the Movie, Yahtzee sure is right on that, but thankfully they are well placed. The combat is unforgiving, 
 you will have to learn, or else you can't progress through the story. While the Other-world is 
 bloody and gritty and amazing, it really lacks some of the horrendous feeling and things from Silent 
 Hill 3's other-world, if that makes any sense. Puzzles are easier this time around, and without 
 a difficulty level for puzzles, it really does lack so replay value. 
  
  Akira Yamaoka, the Composer for the Silent Hill series and producer on the last few games, returns 
 with a stunning soundtrack that goes further to suck you into the game's bloody world. With Dolby 
 Digital sound work, the sound is so damn realistic that you will be asking "What the hell was that?!" 
 quite a few times.
  
  
  
  Bottom Line: Homecoming is a solid, welcome and adding addition to the Silent Hill series that 
 fans will surely remember. An unforgettable adventure that proves that Double Helix has what it 
 takes to continue the series. 
  
  The Good: Tense Atmosphere, Retains the Silent Hill atmosphere, Epic Boss Battles, Beautiful graphics, 
 enticing story and characters, improved combat system, amazing sound.
  
  The Bad: To many movie references, no puzzle difficulty levels, unforgiving combat.
  
  9 steel 
 pipes out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catrocr
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 4:10 pm PT
Review:  The only real survival horror game available for the 360. Very disturbing and gruesome. A must 
 have! This game really frustrated me at first because the middle part is really hard with lack 
 of health, ammo, and save points. But that's what makes it even scarier. It will definitely get 
 your heart beating fast! If you make it past that middle part, you will feel really good about 
 yourself and the rest of the story is fantastic and the difficulty is more balanced. Stick with 
 it because it's worth it! Not since the first Resident Evil series have I been so impressed with 
 a horror game. Apparently, the story is written by Americans so at least it makes sense and is 
 very deep compared to typical Japanese storylines. Like I said, buy it and stick with it -- it may 
 have a few bugs but it's a collector's item in my mind. An instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill: Homecoming is an interesting game to review. If you are new to the Silent Hill series, 
 but enjoy action / horror games in general, you will find a solid game in Homecomings. However, 
 if you are a SH veteran you probably would be disappointed in what you find. 
  
  The story for Homecoming is very strong, you can definitely, see where the development team got 
 their influences, but its still engaging. The town, the atmosphere, the freaky monsters, its all 
 there. 
  
  The biggest problem (for vets) , and possibly an enjoyable aspect for SH newbies, is the emphasis 
 on action. The heroes of previous SH games were combat incompetent, adding to the tense feeling 
 of helplessness and the hero being WAY out of place in the game. In Homecomings the hero, Alex, 
 is an ex-military who can string combos with melee weapons and aim well with firearms. Alex's abilities 
 in combat remove any tension from Homecoming, which dramatically alters what Silent Hill veterans 
 are used to.
  
  
  The Good - Good story telling, interesting action emphasis (though the actual controls are weak) , 
 creepy atmosphere
  
  The Bad - Voice acting, sub-par graphics
  
  The Ugly - Wonky menu controls, Puzzles arent engaging and seem like an after thought 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaemmons
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Whoever reviewed this game at game spot needs to be fired. I am an old school SH Fan. I love the 
 whole silent hill series and still play the 1st one sometimes. I saw that they were coming out 
 with a new one so i figured i would get on the web and look at some reviews. i got on GS and saw 
 that they gave a mediocre review, So i thought, well i hold off a few weeks before buying because 
 there was some other game i wanted to buy 1st. So i finally got around to buying it and the 1st 
 thing i thought when i started playing. "The didn't change much, still pretty old school, I LOVE 
 IT!!!" Has the reviewer on GS ever played Silent Hill Before? 
  Story is so far superb and im not even very far in it, and he said it gets better. love the old 
 school game play, they added just enough, not too much to make it Less Old School. Graphics are 
 "Best In Series", Sound Is "Best In Series". I will be honest with you, I was less disappointed 
 with SH5 than i was with SH 3 and 4. my series ranking now stands from best to worst. 1,2,5,3,4.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nostyle77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  If you're a fan of the Silent Hill series or survival horror games in general, Silent Hill: Homecoming 
 is a worthwhile entry to tide you over until Resident Evil 5 or (if you haven't already played 
 it) Dead Space. The game follows the story of a soldier named Alex Shepherd who has returned to 
 his hometown of Shepherd's Glen to find that things have gone down hill since he left. You'll uncover 
 the bizarre series of events that have occurred and turned the once peaceful town into the home 
 of vicious monsters. While the story seems to revolve around Shepherd's Glen, you will find yourself 
 irrevocably drawn to Silent Hill which, as usual, is the true source of the evil corrupting the 
 small town.
  
  The game itself features fairly standard graphics for this generation, but doesn't push the boundaries 
 significantly. Characters and scenery look great but seem to lack that extra level of polish that 
 most games are beginning to strive for. Speech animations during cut-scenes look slightly un-natural 
 (ie. odd teeth) and character motions look stiff. The game has a kind of grainy film quality that 
 gives it a kind of movie-like style, which really works well during the cut-scenes. All-in-all 
 the game looks pretty good - the monsters and environments are suitably scary and creepy - but 
 there is really only one problem. Half the time you won't be able to see them properly. Due to 
 a lack of light in this game, you'll often find it difficult to see where you're going or what 
 you're fighting - even with Alex's flashlight on (which they advise you turn off to avoid attracting 
 monsters) and the brightness maxed out, it is hard to see much of anything in some areas. This 
 greatly impairs your ability to play the game and leads to some very frustrating moments. There's 
 creepy and then there's annoying and this game zig zags back and forth all over the line between 
 them.
  
  Graphics aside, the game plays quite well overall. The story plays out quite well - though it is 
 a bit short and leaves you wanting more at the end. The recorded dialogue sounds great throughout 
 the game and most cut-scenes are skip-able (which is especially good if you die repeatedly in the 
 same spot) . 
  This brings us to the other main flaw of this game - the controls. Now don't get me wrong, the 
 buttons are well mapped and the camera is fairly easy to maneuver, but in typical Silent Hill fashion 
 your character is slow and clumsy to control. Whether you're running around in search of health 
 or trying to kill a boss for the 15th time (ie. Scarlet) you'll spend a lot of time struggling 
 with Alex's inability to react quickly. It is disappointing to see that after six games, they still 
 cannot make a protagonist who isn't sluggish in the combat department. You'll find yourself cursing 
 and pounding the dodge button during almost any fight as it seems that Alex is almost always just 
 a bit too slow to duck under a swing or roll away from a lunging creature. Combine that with the 
 merciless advances of some bosses who will manage to hit you several times before you can successfully 
 get out of the way. 
  
  Despite the shortcomings I've mentioned, there really is a good game in here - though to get to 
 it you are going to have to put up with a few painful moments. Having gone through the whole game 
 from start to finish, I can say that it is worth it. You may find yourself being punished repeatedly 
 in some spots, but overall this is a good game and a good entry in the Silent Hill franchise. It 
 may not be to the Silent Hill series what Resident Evil 4 was to that series, but it is worth checking 
 out for the hard-core fans out there as well as fans of the genre in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markgsxr1000
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  You must play this game at night, when no one is around. then turn all the lights out to get the 
 full effect. I guess it helps that i sit about four feet from a 60 inch HD tv screen. It really 
 helps immerse you into the creepy world of silent hill. If you play this game during the day (unless 
 you can black out your game room) , or with people around, then the game loses it's edge. But that 
 is true for any horror game. If you play the game in the right atmosphere it is impossible not 
 to get hours of enjoyment out of it. Even if the "enjoyment" comes in the form of being scared 
 to death. This review must be 800 charcters long, so here is some fluff words to pad the end of 
 this review, the review is over , there is no need to read on for their is no content beyond this 
 point, just mindless rambles to fill up space, is this enough, i will write a few more words to 
 make sure, why are you still reading? there is nothing more to say , this should do it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poopieheadenvy
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  I was so excited about Silent Hill: Homecoming I just had to buy it! to put it short and simple 
 I had a feeling this game wasn't going to be so good and my gut feeling was right. The nurses in 
 this game are a little too sexy, they aren't scary at all. Some of the Monsters in this game are 
 just retarded while others are fun to fight with a Knife... speaking of knife I was able to pretty 
 much beat the game with a knife. To me the game was really easy but that being said the dodging 
 thing can get annoying and tiresome. *dodge dodge dodge* yay a chance *hits* *dodge dodge dodge* 
 so forth, this can be a problem at times when their is a gang of monsters trying to kill you. Like 
 I said I picked it up quick and controls where easy to learn and so fighting with a knife was easy 
 as heck. Plus the game is fun when you fight with a knife!
  
  
  The game wasn't scary as all it sorta lost that feel that you got from other Silent Hill games. 
 It feels empty like it's missing so much. The music is pretty and nice but to me its not like the 
 old Silent Hill games. The music in the old Silent hill games alone can scare you to death but 
 its lacking that fear in this Silent Hill. 
  If you want to be scared don't bother buying this game unless you scare really easily then be my 
 guess.
  
  
  The game is entertaining it passes time but if you want a new and not reused story line just with 
 new people, and or a scary game with non retarded sexy nurses and retarded monsters that are sooo 
 annoying, then skip this one just rent it if you must. I am a huge Silent Hill fan and this just 
 wasn't silent hill.
  
  
  As short as I can put it without ruining anything by going into much details. Hope my review helps 
 a tiny bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wchamp
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Great visuals but not polished. Excellent boss battles. A few major glitches hold it back from 
 being an instant classic (does the medals glitch ring a bell) . Other than the glitches, the game 
 can be reasonable. The atmospheric sounds most of time bring the background to life. The story 
 line could have been better. The overall map of the city of Silent Hill can be annoying as it does 
 not reveal dead ends or obstacles that would have been better avoided. Instead of making the map 
 more detailed or somehow revealing that there is an obstacle, you are stuck navigating to a destination 
 that you are not able to get to. At times, you are rewarded with we appearing minions. Overall, 
 there is enough course to this meal to satisfy veterans of the series. The pace of the story may 
 be a little slow developing for newcomers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerrsty138
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill Homecoming is the fifth installment into the Silent Hill franchise, and it's the first 
 in the series to be developed by a Western developer. It's obvious that Double Helix was trying 
 to remain true to the franchise in regards to atmosphere, but with more emphasis on action than 
 horror, you can be in for a bit of a letdown.
  
  You play as Alex. A recently relieved soldier who's searching for his little brother in his dreams. 
 When you make it to your hometown, you immediately notice that something is terribly wrong. Your 
 brother is actually missing, and it's up to you to find him. That's your motivation, and not much 
 else.
  
  The story of Silent Hill Homecoming isn't conventional Silent Hill. While still based around the 
 same sort of idea which revolves around personal fears, it's like a streamlined version. It doesn't 
 make you think as much as something like Silent Hill 2, and it's much less vague. Even with all 
 of these potentially negative aspects, the story it tells is a solid one, and each of the multiple 
 endings are entertaining to watch, as they're based on the choices you make during gameplay.
  
  The graphical presentation of Silent Hill Homecoming is good. As you make your way down dreary 
 hallways, broken down hotels, parks, cemeteries and corroded streets, you'll notice that while 
 each area of the game remains atmospheric with it's visuals, they all have their own distinct styles. 
 Textures are clear, the character models look good, the lighting is realistic and so on and so 
 forth. It's just a good looking game. Also, the lip synching isn't nearly as bad as most reviews 
 would have you believe. It's a bit odd looking, but realistic at the same time. Nothing to ever 
 complain about.
  
  Sound design is also done well, just as any other Silent Hill game. The music remains outstanding, 
 and the hiss of your radio when a monster is nearby can still give you chills. Also, when you pick 
 up items, you'll be able to hear the classic Silent Hill sound clip for picking up items. Like 
 I said, it's obvious that Double Helix was trying to remain true to the franchise, but with graphics 
 and sound out of the way, this is about where they lost their direction.
  
  The gameplay in Silent Hill Homecoming isn't bad, it's just not Silent Hill. You have a map with 
 an objective list, and it's up to you when it comes to where to go and what to search for, even 
 though the game is linear and there are scripted events. It's a good balance, and keeps you motivated 
 to do your own thing and explore as opposed to flying through it. However, you could fly through 
 it without exploring at all. This is definitely more of a linear experience than previous Silent 
 Hills, but to me, that's a good thing. I don't see linear as a bad word when it comes to gaming. 
 I see it as a buzz word. 
  
  Going back to gameplay, the combat is good, but it's still not traditional Silent Hill. You can 
 lock on to enemies, strafe around them and dodge their attacks. It's sort of like a dance. Just 
 think Assassin's Creed's combat with a bit of a difficulty spike. While this works well from a 
 gameplay standpoint, it doesn't exactly instill fear as much as Silent Hill usually does because 
 you know you can take out almost any monster, creature or mutant standing in your path. If you 
 have a gun, though, you really don't have to be afraid of anything. You can just blast any sort 
 of enemy away with ease. Thankfully, though, ammo is very scarce, and health can be scarce if you're 
 not the explorative type. But if you're not that type, don't even bother with this game. The whole 
 thing is an adventure game with a strong focus on action. It actually makes for a good mix depending 
 on what type of game suits you. I personally enjoyed it.
  
  With all of this being said, this is definitely not a traditional Silent Hill game, but that doesn't 
 make it bad. There's still enough atmosphere within it's presentation for it to be known as a Silent 
 Hill game and to live up to it, though there are many changes. Even with these changes, I could 
 definitely recommend this game; especially for the Halloween season. Silent Hill Homecoming is 
 a welcome addition to the series, even with less emphasis on horror and more on action.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: duffmanth
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I'm so tired of these gaming sites saying this game is average and mediocre!! It's one of the best 
 in the series. I keep hearing complaints about linear gameplay and storytelling, bad combat controls, 
 and the sense of scariness is gone from the game. It's all B. S. It stays true to it's roots with 
 similar gameplay, running down empty hallways, finding keys and other objects, etc.
  
  The graphics and audio are top notch and make the overall feel and atmosphere of the game really 
 freakish. Lastly all of the complaining about Alex being trained in combat and having more powerful 
 weapons at his disposal, is just more B. S. The monsters in this game are quite a bit tougher than 
 in past Silent Hill's, so it's fitting that the main character would have some combat skills and 
 more weapons!! Can you imagine playing as the chick from Silent Hill 3 with her little pocket knife 
 in Homecoming!? Lets just say you would be seeing that continue game screen a lot. 
  
  Bottom line, this is a great game, with great visuals and audio, a much better camera, a good, 
 but not perfect combat system and the direction controls are MUCH better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dreski83
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Nearly 10 years in the making and the crazy people over at Konami have been meticulously crafting 
 what many would call a "golden franchise". Survival-horror, mixed with psychological thriller, 
 add in some eerie presentation, top it off with unique gameplay challenges, and you got the winning 
 formula thats kept Silent Hill faithful reeling for more. Others would simply chalk it all up as 
 a glorified hallway creeper with mellow-dramatic music.
  Whatever camp you represent, Konami has been good at avoiding the modern trend of milking a popular 
 franchise such as SH. This may be an overly personal opinion; yet the facts kind of speak for them 
 self when looking at a solid track record of 6 videogames, a decent big screen movie, numerous 
 comics and side stories, one of the best videogame music compilations, and fans all across the 
 globe. If anything is sure, SH: Homecoming has really big shoes to follow and I feel they've done 
 a great job in keeping pace.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  American developer, Double Helix, had one thing in mind approaching this Konami home-brewed project, 
 and it clearly shows; change nothing of what made SH great, only add to the winning formula.
  In the first hour of your dark adventure you'll notice one big difference from previous additions. 
 You are now fully capable of offense and defense. This seems to be a major issue of debate to many 
 fans of the SH series, which is some what understandable to a certain extent. Yet the main character 
 you control is some dude returning from military operations, which in turn would lead one to believe 
 he has SOME sort of ability when faced with conflict. No back flips or anything outrageous, just 
 a minor combo system that works pretty well with a quick and heavy attack, plus the ability to 
 dodge/block. Which brings up the catch 22! Dodging enemies is kind of easy and can be done even 
 if you're cornered and unable to clearly see whats happening. Then again, the few monster types 
 you come across in SH: Homecoming have the same ability to lay combos on you with off timing and 
 cheap repetitive attacks that can be troublesome to block OR dodge.
  
  I've always felt terribly hindered in SH games, but thats mostly due to my exposure of numerous 
 action games that allow for all sorts of unrealistic movements. In SH: H, you actually feel capable 
 in the environment with believable physics. Besides being a bit too overpowered in combat, this 
 angle mostly rides on the gamer: which can decrease or heavily increase the overall difficulty.
 
  Beyond the combat, interacting with doors, objects, and other characters is quite enjoyable. Nothing 
 worth gloating about, but the perks of actually hopping over and squeezing thru areas to reach 
 objectives rather than search for keys all game make it very easy to breeze thru once tedious tasks. 
 Like the SH's before, all the universe traits are in place and implemented in a good control layout 
 that makes it easy to switch between weapons and items. Being able to freeze the action with a 
 press of the button searching thru gear can be a serious detachment, but its no game breaker. 
 
  
  VISUALS
  Is it possible for a game of 5 years ago to look better than its new found sibling? Not really 
 a right or wrong kind of inquiry, but the thought does linger as you venture through the usual 
 SH environments. Plenty of love went into the fog and flash light effects, which looks great in 
 some of the darkest and creepiest of areas. It really adds a extra dimension to the experience 
 and makes you extremely grateful for being equipped with a flashlight of unlimited juice.
  One thing that really bothered me from start to finish was the odd quirks you see in character 
 expressions. The main character, Alex, is pretty basic looking from head to toe. His hair is wild 
 and very lifeless, the clothes have little to no secondary animations (accessories like necklaces 
 and such) , and the facial animation is sometimes just plain BAD with eyes and mouths doing strange 
 things that don't fit the scene. 
  
  This could all be silly nit-picking; but after numerous play thru's and witnessing such errors 
 affect the whole cast of characters, Double Helix really dropped the ball in a area other SH games 
 have thrived in since day one.
  
  Like I mentioned, there isn't many monsters you'll see in this SH, but they all do have their own 
 distinct look and movement. The design is quite good/grotesque and I love that! The areas you travel 
 are similar to any other SH, taking place within a hospital, small towns, dark undergrounds, and 
 of course the rusted hell settings. Taking a major note from the SH movie, transitioning from regular 
 areas to the decayed nightmarish ones is quite the spectacle and doesn't slow your progress one 
 bit. After realizing its mostly a gimmick to prepare you for bosses or something serious, the wow-effect 
 does kind of ware thin.
  
  AUDIO
  Trafficking through any SH game there are a few things you are guaranteed to hear: metal, wood, 
 monsters, and tasteful music. SH: H is no exception. You may not hear as much SH trademark music 
 as we've all become accustom to, which is a real bummer, but the adventure fairs well without depending 
 on this element too much. Creatures lurking in the shadows is a real bonus though, because you 
 can hear breathing, nails scratching, body adjustments, and even a decent array of monster grunts 
 during battle. If you are anything of a warmonger like myself and utilizing the new battle system, 
 you'll likely hear everything the creatures have to offer after a few encounters. Once again, not 
 a major gamer breaker.
  
  Choosing to avoid combat is always nice, but you occasionally have to speak with others to progress 
 the story. With a decent casts of voices and personalities, this is not so bad. Being able to respond 
 in a aggressive or passive manner is kind of cool at first, but the affects are very limited to 
 how the overall game is strung together which takes away from the desire to be extra involved in 
 interactions.
  
  EXTRAS
  With the Xbox360, videogame achievements have become a popular source of building gamer interest 
 for certain titles. Passing out a few easy ones is no crime, and one play thru of SH: H raking in 
 400-500 points in not so bad either. Truth is, a common staple of SH games has been in its replay 
 value. If not for various unlockables, at least offer extended bouts of challenge. This is one 
 area where SH: H is greatly handicapped!
  From start to finish, simply showing up and defeating monsters rewards you enough, almost to the 
 point where searching for hidden items like drawings and photos loses its flare. Such items are 
 well placed in the environments and curious room raiders will get tid-bits of insight from acquiring 
 them. Yet once again, the missed oppertunity to really flesh out the adventure and give such activities 
 serious potency hurts, but its no game breaker.
  A major plus to SH fans of the old is multiple endings return in this version. I'll warn you now 
 though, they are only BITS of story, nothing that leaves you awe struck. If you go the distance, 
 costume changes (which are only cosmetic) and rare weapons await at the start of a new game, which 
 can add some enjoyable chuckles to once difficult moments of gameplay.
  
  OVERALL
  In modern entertainment, everyone relishes in something we all can agree on, and thats comfort 
 zones. When we find something that fits our entertainment needs and satisfies us just enough or 
 more than enough, shifting around that zone can be uncomfortable to some. Not me! I welcome new 
 approaches, wild ideas, experimental methods and best of all refreshed things of the past. Silent 
 Hill is a game of the past.
  Without going on the offense, I must admit I was content with being delivered the same enjoyable 
 product time and time again. Minor adjustments are expected no doubt, but are they ever truly appreciated? 
 With SH: Homecoming, I get the feeling not so much. Not being able to match the awesome story telling 
 that won fans over is excusable, especially with a whole new developer in the mix. Yet introducing 
 new gameplay mechanics and keeping true to the rich SH universe is truly a worthy accomplishment. 
 If Double Helix, or any rouge group outside of Konami approached this franchise and regurgitated 
 the SAME sort of game I've been playing the last 10 years, I would seriously be disappointed!
 
  Then again, thats my comfort zone. Plenty of wiggle room and loving every moment of it. For others, 
 I would suggest giving SH: H a genuine chance without looking at the past SH games; see it as a 
 decent hallway creeper done much better than most games that fail miserably in such a critic heavy 
 genre, and you may be pleasantly surprised. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clamio
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  great game awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
 awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome awesome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I have played every Silent Hill game on consoles. I haven't played origins. I have read all the 
 complaints about Homecoming and most are quite valid. But to me every Silent Hill since part 2 
 has been a little bit of a letdown. So actually with HC i was hoping for it to not be terrible 
 and at least have the Silent Hill vibe. So for the most part I was satisfied with Double Helix 
 attempt and would be willing to give them another shot.
  
  With that being said there were ome good points and some bad. I actually found HC more fun than 
 any of the previous games because of the camera and the combet being more refined. But that is 
 also a problem I had with the game. I think they should have kept a free roaming camera but there 
 should have been parts of the game where you were not able to control it. I always felt a lot of 
 tension with the other games because the vision was bad and you were always nervous to press on. 
 The combat is fine really I didn't think Alex was too overpowered. Another good point is for the 
 most part the graphics, sound, atmosphere, and voice acting are pretty good. The story had plenty 
 of characters and really was a pretty good story. There are also some good boss fights, better 
 than previous games.
  
  The biggest problem I had with homecoming is it really wasn't that SCARY. The atmoshpere while 
 good just didn't creep me out enough. There were no spots in the game that ran chills up my spine 
 and that is what has made the series in the past so good to me. The past games made you sit up 
 and think what the hell just happened? Those doors you are afraid to enter and the rooms that just 
 creep you out you have to quit playing for awhile. This game had more that is cool moments but 
 not enough creepy ones. Another problem is the game is very linear and short which also hurt the 
 creepieness factor.
  
  Overall DH played it real safe and produced a fairly good game but ultimately doesn't live up to 
 the SH franchise. I would say it is tied for the weakest with part 4. The reason is it was more 
 fun top play than previous versions but was way less creepy than the others. Don't get me wrong 
 DH tried to be scary and in a very safe way they suceeded. To be honest I would like to see them 
 get another crack at it. I believe they can make a really good Silent Hill game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guppieface
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I played all the silent hill games since the second one on ps2. I liked the 2nd one and this one 
 the best, while I did not like 'the room', the 4th one. Homecoming is really long on atmosphere 
 when you are exploring Shepard's Glen, but most of the other locales do not draw you in so much. 
 I liked Silent Hill 2 because of the emphasis on town exploration, and the very best parts of Homecoming 
 are in the town streets and building (s) . Surprisingly, the sequences where everything turns red 
 and industrial (the 'hell' sequences) were the weakest in my opinion, with everything looking the 
 same and really not a lot of graphical depth or variety. In silent Hill 2, a good point of comparison, 
 you were engaged with truly scary NPCs that would surprise you with both their words and actions, 
 but in this game, there are only a few twists that were very predictable, and also almost no NPC 
 character development. Disappointing. Combat is a lot better than in previous SH games, and I found 
 it pretty engaging, not too easy (unless you use a gun, but some enemies can block gunshots) like 
 a lot of reviews say. Just make sure you play on the 'hard' setting in order to get a better sense 
 of the horror aspect of the game. Anything less would make encounters boring. There are a few sequences 
 where running past enemies is really your best option, while in past SH games, often you would 
 run by the nurses/etc. in hallways while searching buildings on a regular basis in order to conserve 
 health and ammo. The flashlight criticisms miss the point that the light you are using is supposed 
 to be weak (look where Alex got it from) and it greatly adds to the great atmosphere and makes 
 combat much more challenging. I played on a Plasma TV only at night, and I loved this game, a true 
 Halloween treat. I also like the Silent Hill subject matter and setting more than, say Resident 
 evil's newer sequels and sci fi stuff like Dead Space (a great action game, but not scary) . I hope 
 the mediocre reviews of Homecoming don't discourage Konami from making more survival horror (a 
 genre that is disappearing in favor of action-oriented games: I even read on a game website how 
 they thought "gears of War" was a horror game! Its not, its action, unless you are easily scared 
 by anything that growls!)
  BOTTOM LINE: A GREAT HALLOWEEN RENTAL YOU WILL PLAY TO THE END, and even if you don't like how 
 the story turns out, you will enjoy the game very much. Just make sure you rent, not buy. I wish 
 there were more games out in this genre, how bout a Fatal Frame or an entirely new Horror game 
 (RE5 is NOT horror) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newbooger
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  silent hill homcoming is a great game to play if you want to relax and enjoy a decent story. that 
 are parts that drag on but ounce u get passed that you will enjoy what they say. sure caompared 
 to the other survival horrors it wont have u jumping out of your pants but just the music alone 
 will send a chilling feeling up your spine and a knot in your stomach silent hill homecoming is 
 a good game to play i myself recommend that you at least give it a chance. i myself love it right 
 to death. i played it for 2 days in a row and enjoyed every bone chilling momment. the controlles 
 and battles are great. the game makes it easy to battle instead of the old way were you'd die every 
 time you ungaged in a battle. the dodge system is much better. instead of just rolling out of harms 
 way you have a chance to actully duck under large swings or step to the side. a great game and 
 i hope you all enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: not_guilty_84
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  This game is the best Silent Hill (not to mention scariest) game out right now! Graphics are really 
 good, Game play is Perfect! The Monsters are back to keep you from beating the game but running 
 past them is just as easy. The puzzles are really fun and easy to solve (well... some are!) the only 
 really big challenges are the Boss's. If you can find out the way to kill them then you should 
 have no problem throughout the game!
  
  The only bad thing is getting lost. Sometimes if your not paying 100% attention you can easily 
 get lost! not as bad as Silent Hill Origins but still getting lost sucks! still i recommend to 
 Rent this game seeing that it can easily be beat in a 3-5 day period if not less! there is no Live 
 multi-player games just the storyline but there is up to 5 different endings!!! Either way this 
 game is really fun and addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sadshadow
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:05 am PT
Review:  First of all.
  
  Im not a BIG fan of SH series... the only one i liked best was the first one on the PSX.
  
 
  Any way, curiosity got me this time and I got this game to give it a try, maybe SH got better.
 
  
  And the answer is.... so-so.
  
  Graphics:
  I HATE CRISPY GRAPHICS!!! same as bad company in some parts, but ill give credit, they are really 
 nice for the game, the environment of Silent Hill looks as I remember it on PSX with lots and lots 
 changes of course.
  
  *Note I played SH 2,3 and 4.
  
  The hospital, the bloody parts, they look great, and the Other world SH looks amazing, tough the 
 same old metal fabric.
  
  But with new sexy fetish toys (mothers death...)
  
  The enemies, the only ones i liked were the Siams an the last boss, oh.. and Asphixia and Scarlet.
 
  
  
  Sounds:
  Tetric... but not too much, i was listening the game on 5.1 surround sound with digital opti link, 
 its a good one, feeling and listening monsters behind you gave me the chills sometime.
  
  Story:
  
  AHH here comes.....
  
  Not worth the money honestly, on some parts i got very 
 interested in the characters backgrounds, like the hospital, the last stage.
  
  NOTE: IM A BIG FAN NOW OF PYRAMID HEAD!
  
  The dialogs arent too much, but well used on some 
 parts.
  
  Replay?
  
  Na... only if you want the achievements and the secret weapons, my first ending was the UFO... 
 and didnt got interested on the others...
  
  
  Final word:
  
  Rent it first if the curiosity is great on you...
  
  buy it if you are a hardcore SH fan
 
  
  HEILZ OUT
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieed15
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill: Homecoming
  
  
  
  
  I've finally finished Homecoming, and decided to post my views about it on Gamespot.
  
  I was 
 quite surprised to find that Lark Anderson's review was practically the exact opposite about how 
 I felt about the game. It really had much less to do with the score Anderson gave Homecoming and 
 more to do with why he chose the score he did. This made me want to post my review of the game 
 even more, to give a contrasted light to the game.
  
  Basically, this is how I view the ground on which Homecoming stands. Home coming is really fun, 
 relatively creepy, and slightly lacking in the graphics department.
  
  Story wise, the player maintains control of Alex Shepard, a soldier who finds himself wounded in 
 combat and shipped back home to be treated. He's eventually released-and following a disturbing 
 'nightmare' -- Alex finds his way back in his hometown of Shepard's Glen. 
  
  Shepard's Glen isn't much like Alex remembers it, however. With a dense fog, scarcely any people-and 
 his own mother in a dazed, unresponsive state, Alex resolves to find his only brother-Joshua, before 
 its too late.
  
  The story of Silent Hill is the first area on which I draw differences with Anderson. Although 
 one could, I guess call the story 'cliched', it is ultimately more enjoyable and accessible to 
 non-fans due to its straightforward story. By the end of the game, the player will have come to 
 completely understand what has unfolded in the world of Alex Shepard, and this realization is in 
 many ways, more rewarding than previous endings in the series' games have been.
  
  Also in contrast, I found Homecoming to be much more interesting than the previous major release-The 
 Room. While the main character of The Room, Henry, is a nice enough fellow... he pretty much lacks 
 any real character or motive. He was just a victim of wrong-place-wrong-time. But Alex's fate and 
 past are much more interesting, and he is a much more entertaining to watch.
  
  
  Graphically, I found that the game lacked the find details needed to hack it on today's market. 
 While the monsters and effects looked awesome, the character models were rather bland and 'off'. 
 In particular, the eyes of the characters were often a bit creepy, while their hairstyles looked 
 plastered to their head. 
  
  The game also lags a bit, and stutters in some cutscences-and occasionally, you'll get a crappy 
 angle where you can't see anything due to absolute darkness. All in all, though, the game is at 
 least graphically adequate.
  
  
  Audio is also good, although I actually enjoyed The Room's soundtrack more. What is astounding, 
 however, is the game's continued use of sounds and unseen noises. You'll often wonder what the 
 source of a noise is, creeping around, only to find that the culprit is a loose sprinkler or creaky 
 chair. Of course, there are many times when the source of the noises you hear will be much more... dangerous.
 
  
  
  Finally, Homecoming plays much more fluidly than past games in the series. Unlike in The Room, 
 there aren't any unkillable ghosts that float around and annoy the crap out of you. Also unlike 
 the Room, Homecoming actually makes using weapons and fighting interesting... almost fun. 
  
  You can use knives to slice quickly, but deal little damage-or you can head in with a crowbar 
 and crack an enemy upside the head. Or, alternatively, you could just whip out a gun and blast 
 the critter until it wails and falls to the ground. Melee combat will be your most utilized method 
 of execution, however, due to the fact that ammo is a commodity in survival horror games. To make 
 melee battles more entertaining, Double Helix has completely revamped the game's combat system-allowing 
 for the creation of combos, dodges, and even finishing moves. It is a leap and a bound beyond previous 
 games, and it makes the entire game more enjoyable-without taking about the fear of death.
  
  The puzzles present in Homecoming are actually a bit lackluster-there are several various of 
 the same puzzle types, such as three different puzzles in which you have to slide the pieces in 
 a certain order to unlock something. Still, the puzzles help sustain the suspense, and rarely actually 
 aggravate-unless you mess up too badly and have to restart from your last save, due to the fact 
 that the puzzles do not reset... ever. It's annoying, but it is actually pretty hard to mess up 
 that badly.
  
  
  Essentially, Homecoming sustains the creepy vibe and interesting stories of past games in the series-all 
 while adding a new layer of game play depth that makes playing the game much more enjoyable. While 
 this accessibility may annoy die hard fans of the series, it beckons newcomers and veterans alike 
 to the town of Silent Hill-and allows them to actually have fun during their latest visit.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fitzgerlan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:21 am PT
Review:  This game is really good for so many reasons, the new battle moves, the flashlight is back!! =D.
 
  
  There was no flashlight in Sh4. Well i got all the endings and the story is just awesome. The little 
 details in the game like the sirens on the top of the church, the alarm when the world is changing, 
 the nurse attracted to the light and many stuff you may like to discover by yourself. SPOILER!!
 
  
  The endings of this game, well in only 1 ending Alex accept the reality, that he kill his brother 
 and he never was a soldier but, he go away with the girl ha ha.
  In the other 3 endings Alex, stay in the negation and he don't accept the reality. And yes, we 
 have the UFO ending too its kinda dumb but is tradition.
  
  The extra weapons, well the laser pistol, the circular saw and the rifle.
  
  By the way the 
 ending 3.. That must hurt a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphumax
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  . . . But gravy ain't great on its own. With other horror games like FEAR, Dead Space and Condemned, 
 Silent Hill is no longer in a class of its own. Especially since the franchise seems intent on 
 creeping its way out of its area of expertise. Some may not agree, but I think they had it just 
 right with Silent Hill 2. It was creepy, atmospheric and left the player lost and dazed. Most importantly, 
 it set itself apart by putting emphasis on puzzles over extreme combat of any sort. The monsters 
 were there to creep you out. They were there to creep the hell out of you, keep you on edge, blow 
 your mind and make the adventure a little more difficult. When Silent Hill is perfect, that's what 
 it's all about.
  
  And with this generation of hardware, they really could have used that formula and delivered a 
 game that outcreeped anything on the market. But they didn't quite make it work that way. By failing 
 to take full advantage of the technology AND their own unique formula for success, Double Helix 
 has released a Silent Hill game that is good but not great. It delivers on a lot of the trademark 
 atmosphere but falls short in other areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackdog0678
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  I think this game was well done, there were many times where I jumped out of my chair when an enemy 
 jumped from the shadows. The graphics are very good and the environments are very creepy and realistic. 
 Along with the graphics the enemies were creepy as hell itself. Some were much harder to defeat 
 than others, but you could figure them out pretty quickly and combat them with a pretty easy to 
 use combat system. My only criticisms of the game would be the linear gameplay. I wish the world 
 would have been more open ended with multiple ways to get to the next place. The game was way too 
 short, I felt like I beat it so quickly. The saving system was alright, but there were times when 
 I was pretty freaked about saving. I think this sort of added to the craziness of the game, but 
 it was annoying to get killed and have to start my game over from where I saved an hour ago. All 
 in all, solid creepy game with awesome graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megjur
Rating: 3.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on day 1 and couldn't wait to play it. I really hated Silent Hill 4 and was hoping 
 this game would come close to the greatness of SH2 and SH3, and at first it did. The atmosphere 
 was excellent, very SH creepy. I liked the story and characters. Then the problems started. Maybe 
 it's just me but the combat system was incredibly annoying. The problems start in the hotel with 
 the needlers. After many playthroughs.. to the point where all the fun was sucked out of the game... I 
 finally got to the first boss. The boss was ok, but by the time I got into the sheriffs office 
 for more annoying clumsy monster fighting.. constant dying as you figure out which annoying a-x-b 
 combo to use.. I had had enough. The controls seemed sluggish and unresponsive. The monsters seem 
 to get ample cheap hits. I miss the old SH where it was about the exploration, puzzles, story and 
 creepiness, and not a monster slugfest with crappy 
  controls. So I started playing Dead Space... now thats a well designed horror game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: To_Ashes
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill series has gone through a lot of changes with the new installment Silent Hill 5. Indeed, 
 it still has it scary moments. And they really changed the camera to a better perspective. The 
 game starts off with your protagonist Alex Shepeard and are stuck in a Hospital World. The one 
 thing that caught my eye that was a great in the game were the graphics. From all of the last generation 
 Silent Hill's, this one is far the best environment of them all. The gameplay is just like all 
 the other Silent Hills just have Health Drinks find your map and so on. Silent Hill 5 is a game 
 that can be put in the book as a great Silent Hill not the best but certainly not the worst! Silent 
 Hill 5 is a great game that can be put in the books of a great game. It has some great puzzles 
 and some are just really mind racking and could kick the fun out of you. But if you are a Silent 
 Hill fan you should not miss out on this experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing atmosphere and graphics, eerie sounds and music, good voice acting, story is 
 engaging, new combat system and extra content makes for replay value
  
  The Bad: Really short, puzzles are still confusing, more atmosphere less scare
  
  Silent Hill 
 was one of the first survival horror series that was 3D along with Resident Evil, Clock Tower, 
 Alone in the Dark, and Parasite Eve. While Resident Evil and Silent Hill became more successful 
 Silent Hill still remains the most frightening survival horror series ever made. Homecoming is 
 no exception with lots of fog and lighting effects, unbelievably freaky creatures, a great story 
 with lots of plot twists, and a new and improved combat system. I have to first mention that there 
 is so many little things in this game for hardcore SH fans such as homages to the movie (which 
 most of this game is based off of) such as the "Otherworld peeling" effect, barbed wire in the 
 church, ash/snow, the Grand Hotel and the nurses. There are references everywhere that mention 
 famous horror authors, horror movies etc. Most people may never find these but they are there such 
 as the streets being last names of famous horror authors.
  
  This is really great and thankfully Konami kept all of this in mind for fans, but what if you've 
 never played an SH game before? Well then you came in at a great time. Most people's concern is 
 if the game has the same creepy atmosphere and it does. There are less "out of the closet" scares 
 however because the game concentrates more on sheer atmosphere. Everything is dark and creepy, 
 and we have the same spooky unnerving sounds effects and music that we've grown to love. The combat 
 system is what I was mainly concerned about. Gone are the fixed camera angles and tank controls. 
 The game controls very well in a third person style action game. You lock on to enemies and use 
 light and heavy attack combos to kill them. This may be very repetitive and simple, but it's better 
 than being broken. Shooting is easier as well because you know control the gun in a Resident Evil 
 4 way.
  
  Also introduced are button pressing sequences and this helps to the intensity because if you don't 
 do this properly you could die and the game is totally up to you. Also new is a way to control 
 your outcome of the story. Certain moments in the game have you make a choice and this will decide 
 your ending (there are 5 all together) . There are a good amount of weapons to pick up such as knives, 
 pipes, axes, shotguns, pistols, rifles etc. Nothing we haven't seen in an SH game before, but you 
 have to decide which weapon is best for which enemy.
  
  If you want to go story side it's good and its here. You are a man named Alex Shepard who comes 
 home from being in a war and everyone in Sheperd's Glen is missing (just outside Silent Hill) and 
 his brother Josh is missing. You must find the deep secrets of Silent Hill and why your brother 
 went missing. There are tons of plot twists and it's probably one of the better less confusing 
 stories. The puzzles in Silent Hill are still weird and confusing as ever. I had to get a FAQ for 
 almost every single one because they require you to right down stuff and rattle off riddles in 
 your head and... well... they're still confusing. The game is a bit short, however, and you can beat 
 the game in about 8-10 hours depending on how you play.
  
  There is plenty of replay value thanks to the multiple endings, different costumes, and new weapons 
 you can find after you beat the game. There are also collectibles to find such as drawings, photos, 
 and serums to unlock achievements. The game is just very well put together, but you can tell the 
 developers didn't do anything risky with the formula. It's pretty safe and basic, but you'll want 
 to visit Silent Hill again thanks to the excellent story, voice acting, graphics, atmosphere, new 
 enemies, and the button pressing sequences and not to mention the humongous disgusting boss fights! 
 If you love survival horror this is probably the best one of the year so far (Alone in the Dark 
 was almost a disaster) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrat_amir
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  We are near the year 2009 and release date of Direct X 11, today's hardware and consoles are powerful 
 and still silent hill has a bad graphic and bad sound and no impressive visual effects changed 
 since previous silent hills.
  
  Nothing new happened on game play and still we see stupid monsters.
  
  The only things that 
 are absorbing me to this game are story and taste of fear, but I'm disappointed when I see awesome 
 games like Metal Gear, Resident evil series and I hope powerful developers would make the next 
 silent hill!
  Silent hill is a game with awesome story line and environment but weak developers.
  
  games 
 like silent hill and resident evil have easy way to develop in opposite to games like crysis and 
 half life or doom but we don't see any advance in this genre of games.
  Resident evil has been more successful than silent hill even though silent hill has stronger story. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Newsted_22
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is plain fun and is awesome. If you, re looking for a game to play on Halloween look no 
 further :)
  Grab this game for Xbox cause I owned both version and PS3 version is so crap (low rez textures, 
 poor lightings effects and only 720p.) If you're looking to experience the real impact of Silent 
 Hill: HC get it on Xbox it's better.... WAY BETTER (my 40 bucks to exchange the PS3 version to 
 the Xbox one will tell you this... 40 times.)
  
  This game is really the scary stuff if you got a 5.1 surround sound (wear your gaming diaper, you'll 
 need it lol
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  -----------------Josh is that you? -----------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------
  --------------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alvarobruera
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the series since silent hill 3.
  this instalment is the best so far in my opinion.
  great story, sounds amazingly creepy, looks 
 incredibly hellish and dark. awesome puzzle solving, heart pounding fights and ofcourse limited 
 ammo and health which for me makes the game play even more interesting.
  there is a learning curve associated with the controls as with any other game, so be patience if 
 at the begining the reversed camera view bothers you.
  horror survival games like this are collectibles in my opinion they're truly a work of art. lately 
 I've been renting games but this one I purchased the day it came out, it turned out to be a hell 
 of a nightmare, in a good way hehehehe. I thought they brought back piramid head, I was wrong I've 
 only seen it in a cut scene at the hotel rooms. This game has great level disign and makes you 
 feel part of the horror that is silent hill.
  
  A few months after finishing the game, I started a second run, this time I went online and discovered 
 a few other secrets and things like alternate endings and hidden rifle, unlockable gun, etc. I 
 realized that the first time I played it, I was just blazzing thru the levels SCARED!!, this time 
 I'm taking my time to look around every corner, etc. some gamers are just spoiled with supperficial 
 details of a game, I think this game is avobe average and very enjoyable for me and those who like 
 survival horror games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tominator14
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I was definitely doubting it's worth. I was choosing between this 
 and Hell's Highway, but I was tired of First person shooters so I picked this one, I've never played 
 a game in the silent hill series but Ive heard great things about them. When I started playing 
 I found that it was very simple; simple controls, environment interaction, and not the best graphics 
 when compared to say GTA 4. At the beginning I was not very drawn in to the game, but as I played 
 it a few more times I got completely sucked into the amazing story behind silent hill. And I must 
 say even though this game is in the horror genre there is nothing extremely scary about it. Bioshock 
 was scarier, I mean you can here zombies coming from half a mile away. So if your looking for a 
 horror this may not be the best choice. Still the constant grim of tight corridors and dark room 
 is a bit chilling.
  So If your looking for a game that will have you wanting more and more and wont let you go then 
 this might be the game for you. I guess thats wat i wanted cuz i gave ir 9.5/10. Haha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helrazr_live
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Before I mention anything more I will say that YES the devs should have thought about the people 
 who choose to invert the camera and not just the aiming before a release. For those of you that 
 are inverted camera only users this game will be disappointing. That is such a shame given that 
 soooo so much was put into evey other aspect of the game.
  Graphics are a solid 10.
  Audio... can I go above 10?! 
  Ambience is a solid 10.
  Environment another 10.
  Atmosphere... holy... it's 
 a 12.
  Immersion... jeez is there anything I don't like about this game?! Another 10.
  I'm not sure how bad off I will eventually be, given that I am just a few hours into the gameplay, 
 but already I'm worrying about ammo and health and I'm playing on Normal diff. I would have waited 
 to rate this since I'm not finished but I just got tired of the bashing. The inverted camera I 
 get, and that should be noted, but some of crap I've read is just untrue. These are people that 
 want developers to make a game that plugs into your head and you play it while you sleep. Aside 
 from the invertion problem and the (what appears to be) lack of resourses this is THE SCARIEST 
 and one of the best games I've EVER played. And I'm old school. Still have my Atari 2600 and about 
 120+ titles. I guess I haven't stressed this enough. THE SCARIEST GAME EVER!!! I've played all 
 Res Evils, all the other Silent Hills, and Fatal Frames and nothing ever made me want to find a 
 save so I could get off for a break. This game gets in your head and the people that designed this 
 game deserve to hear they did an AWESOME job! Not these dumb complaints about "the flashlight only 
 lights part of a room". IT'S A HORROR/SURVIVAL GAME... THAT'S PART OF THE EXPERIENCE AND WAS INTENDED 
 TO BE LIMITED LIGHTING!!! Anyway, if you're a horror/survival fan that DO NOT pass this game up. 
 It's turning into one of the best games I've ever played and I think most players agree. Have fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ivellios
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill: Homecoming is an example of progress. Right from the beginning you'll feel the difference 
 from the other Silent Hill games: Alex Shepherd moves fantastically. Add in the fact that he's 
 a capable combatant and prone to nightmares involving pyramid-heads and sanitariums within the 
 opening scene and you start to get a feel for the game. From the fantastic opening sequence to 
 one of the five achievable endings, it's an overall very enjoyable experience. Unlike the other 
 Silent Hills, the five endings are achievable very simply if you save your game in the right spot 
 and work the file's last two or so hours a few times. The creature design this time around is arguably 
 the best of any of them, and the soundtrack continues to haunt throughout the game, potentially 
 standing out as the best one so far. The story has plenty to offer, including the oh-so-mind-blowing 
 plot twists that SH is known for. The entirety of the 12 or so hours of the plot is absolutely 
 brilliant, weaving in elements of all the previous games and managing to even answer questions 
 that other games in the series have failed to answer. The biggest issue with the game is also one 
 of its allies, it is for the most part overly easy to go through. With only one section of the 
 game with a dearth of healing items, if you've played correctly, you'll have so much ammunition 
 and healing by the final boss that there is really no way you can actually fail. The other thing 
 contributing to the easiness is the upgraded combat system. With Alex being so powerful, so long 
 as you snag the rhythm of the enemies (which is easy to do) , you won't even take any damage to 
 use up your excess of items. In addition to these items, they've also included serums to increase 
 your health bar far past it's starting point. One of the interesting things they've done with combat, 
 in an effort to keep weapons from obsolescence, is they've made each enemy particularly susceptible 
 to different weapons. You'll definitely want to use the crowbar against the dogs, and nothing but 
 the fire axe against the schisms. With funky bonus weapons included in the second playthrough and 
 a handful of bizarre costumes from each ending, the replayability is fairly high. Overall, I really 
 appreciated Homecoming. I found it to be a breath of fresh air in the series, and an ambitious 
 attempt to further the series. All I ask next time around are a few more scares and a more difficult 
 experience. Nine out of Ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erik321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Personaly, I have never played any of the other Silent Hill games nor heard of the series but, 
 it is the scariest game I have ever played and by far the most grusome. The storyline is terrific 
 and a bit creepy but, hard to understand. (I had to go on the internet to understand the story) . 
 This phycological horror definitly plays with your mind. The combat is smooth and creative. I like 
 the counter and dodge features. The environment and atmosphere in the game was a major part of 
 the game making it much more scary. The state of the art graphics are amazing some of the best 
 I have seen. Voice acting is pretty good. The gameplay is quite exciting with fun boss battles 
 and neat puzzles. The enemies all have unique weaknesses giving the game more strategy and depth. 
 
  
  Overall this is a game I would recommend for any Xbox fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heisman67
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I have played every silent hill to date including this one..... I going to say that i was very 
 disappointed in the fact that there was very little puzzles, and the change of the fighting mechanics 
 were very loose, the voice over is way off making it look like I'm watching a bad Japanese movie. 
 It seems they were trying to hype the new fighting mechanics and in turned failed to bring a great 
 sequel to the already amazing series. I know there is a lot of fanboys out there (me being one of 
 them just drooling till the day it came out) if you call yourself one you know that this game is 
 far from what the others brought.. it seems like it went from story telling and puzzles to a 3rd 
 person fighting game and said piss off to what made this game such a cult following.. sorry I love 
 the series and am really disappointed in this one. But I will give it some help to the fact there 
 are times that it does a descent job of creeping you out... But then again fanboys know that its 
 a mentally twisted story this one is kinda choppy and doesn't make too much sense it reminds me 
 of watching movies done by M. Night Shyamalan.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXZEROKOOLXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  Recently I picked up a copy of Silent Hill: Homecoming.
  
  Expecting what all Silent Hill games bring to the table, I popped it in the 360, and get it a whirl.
 
  
  The story is pretty confusing at first, but as you sink deeper into the game, it unfolds an even 
 pace. This happens via short or sometimes long cut scenes.
  
  You also have your share of complex, but not too hard puzzles. Any avid survivor horror gamer, 
 but have no trouble solving them.
  
  Besides an immersing story, and Erie environments, Silent Hill: Homing delivers a better fighting 
 system.
  
  The combat consists of wielding an object via holding down a button that puts your character in 
 a ready/fighting position. From here you can either swing with light/fast strikes or heavy single 
 strikes. Staggering combos are now possible by mixing your light and heavy attacks together. To 
 add the "staggering" effect to a combo or a single heavy strike, you simple hold your heavy strike 
 button down longer.
  
  As for the monsters you will encounter, they consist of monsters from the movie, and evolved monsters 
 from previous games.
  
  Control, and movement haven't changed much from the past games, but seems a little more fluid this 
 time around.
  Over all Silent Hill: Homecoming is a good game for those seeking something to do on those rainy 
 days, and is a must by for the fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowblade99
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 2, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  To answer the bubbling question on everyone's mind, how has Silent Hill changed from it's PS1 days 
 to it's 360 days? Not that much. I guess if it ain't broke don't fix it could be used here, but 
 that phrase could never really be used to describe the Silent Hill franchise. The series has mostly 
 been plauged by bad controls, clunky combat, and poor camera angles. 
  
  Basically you play as a solder that has returned from the middle east. You come home and find that 
 your town is all but deserted, you father and younger brother are lost, and your mother is crazy. 
 Yup your in a Silent Hill game. As the game progresses and introduces new monsters and updated 
 ones from the past, it takes you through the usual spooky places until you reach Silent Hill. As 
 the game progresses the plot is revealed to you and of course there is a twist in the usual Silent 
 Hill fasion. 
  
  The graphics are pretty good in this game. They convay the creepy elements that the prior games 
 did, it looks good on the 360. Homecoming maybe isn't the best looking creepy game on the 360, 
 but it's a light year ahead of the prior game, The Room. The humans are a little stiff and strange 
 looking, but again it's Silent Hill. The monsters are well detailed and animated, the first time 
 you square off against any of them, you might take your breathe aback. The backgrounds are very 
 detailed, and really help set the mood. 
  
  The story (although predictable if you've played any of the prior games) is well written and scripted. 
 The voice acting is better then any of the prior 4 entries and Origins on the PSP. The music is 
 awesome as usual and is helped by the stellar sound to set the mood and keep the player on the 
 edge of their seat. The characters are well rounded so you actually care about them, feel shocked 
 when new information is revealed, and feel sad if they are hurt or die. 
  
  The controls are slightly updated, although they aren't better then the past incarnations of the 
 series, and they could use a lot more tweaking. Silent Hill Homecoming takes you back to the typical 
 button mashing past of the prior games, where you hope that the more you hit the button, the more 
 times you will hit the monsters or "dodge" their attacks. You do have combo options after linking 
 the light and the heavy attack buttons together, and the heavy attack from holding the heavy button 
 is still there. There are some good finishers but can be difficult to pull off. Thankfully the 
 weapons don't break like in Origins. You can "attempt" to dodge the attack with the dodge button, 
 but most of the time this doesn't work and you get mauled. Melee is better the fire arm combat. 
 You still can't run with a gun, and Silent Hill borrows the Resident Evil 4 format to firing. It 
 also takes the over the shoulder camera angle for most of the game. This is a good system, but 
 it's been over used in the past by prior games, also the system is slow to react and difficult 
 to aim with. A little more care could have been utalized when developing it. However the "updated" 
 controls make it almost impossible to play and frustraing to do even the most minor thing. Plus 
 the lack of health containers and bullets make taking on 3 or 4 monsters at a time a poor chose. 
 Granted in "real" life if you took on 3 or 4 foes it would be harder hand to hand vs. with a weapon. 
 But then again, this is a super natural game. Further more th camera is clunky during combat, making 
 seeing what's going on around you difficult to attain. 
  
  Basically Silent Hill Homecoming doesn't really add too much new to the series. It borrows things 
 here and there from other survial horror games of the past as well from it's own library. WIth 
 the changing of developer to American, rather then Japanese, you lose a lot of the horror that 
 comes from prior entries. Mostly because they use massive amounts of foes as a fearful part rather 
 then using mood to set the scene. As we learned from many of the slasher movies of the 80s, the 
 moe blood and guts thre is doesn't necissarily make for a scary game. It does little to keep the 
 player on their seat edge until the next creep fest comes along. I can't really recommend this 
 game for anyone accept a die hard fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talisac
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill is back and it rings true to its franchise, bringing a lot of elements, not just from 
 other games of the series, but also from the movie and the comic books. This time around we'll 
 see the story of Alex Shepperd, a USA Soldier who just got discharged and is comming back to his 
 hometown, Shepperd's Glen. This nice little town used to be just as cute as Silent Hill, but when 
 Alex arrives the place he realises that there's something wrong, the commerce is gone, most places 
 look downright abandoned... And there's a strange myst creeping around. Soon you find the town's 
 Judge, and in a very strange conversation you're told to check on your mother soon, cause she's 
 not ok she "needs you". As soon as you reach your house and meet your mother you realise that something 
 very evil has happened to the town, people are disappearing and that includes Josh, you're younger 
 brother who looks up at you as if you were his supreme hero. You tell your mother you'll find him, 
 and that's when hell breaks loose. That's as far as I can tell of the story without spoiling anything, 
 you see, Shepperd's Glenn is a neighbour town to Silent Hill, in a matter of fact, they're so close 
 that Toluca Lake itself touches Shepperd's Glenn, people can even easily sail across the lake to 
 the other town; for some reason the "Ancient Gods" of Silent Hill have reached Shepperd's Glenn 
 and brought horror to it, just as they did to Silent Hill.
  Shall we start with the very bad parts of the game? The graphics, as far as character modeling 
 and texture goes, is awful. Sometimes it looks barely good enough (the face is somewhat good) , 
 but most of the time it'll look just like a PS2/OrigXbox game. Other times it's so ridiculously 
 dark that it only frustrates you (your flashlight illuminates almot nothing) , maybe that kept them 
 from making a really great scenario (after all you won't be seeing it because it's too dark...) . 
 If the graphics were'nt so bad the game has some really ugly glitches, I'll give the reader the 
 worst one right now, in order to get future players ready: there's a puzzle near the end of the 
 game where you have to move the hands of a clock to a certain time, and that'll get some windows 
 open, well I got the time right and the windows would NOT open, after checking on forums your poor 
 reviwer realised that he wasn't the only one suffering, it was a GLITCH, the game won't respond 
 to the correct answer (Gosh knows why) , so you'll just have to try every single possibility 'till 
 one works... Dubbing is also awful, many times it doesn't match the timinig of the character's 
 mouth. Fortunately, at least the monsters were very well disigned and modeled, they show the expected 
 graphical potential. But when you see a monster, make sure you don't die, cause the savepoints 
 are few and usually far away form where you die...
  Controls, in terms of action, have changed dramatically, since you're a soldier it plays similar 
 to Resident Evil 4, you can dodge, counter attack and even do combos with your weapons.
  The music is great, done by Akira Yamaoka it's just what one would expect from a Silent Hill game; 
 the sound effects are also wonderful (in a very disturbiong way) .
  Other than the new scenario from Shepperd's Glen, you'll revisit our beloved Alchemilla Hospital 
 in Silent Hill, a Hotel (just like in the movie) , the Church, and a few other places, most of them 
 new, in Silent Hill itself.
  The monsters are very grotesque, and the bosses are huge and gruesomely gorgeous, ranging from 
 a giant aggresive-looking porcelaine doll to a naked pregnant woman with spider-like machinery 
 for limbs, all bosses are a tough fight with extremely brutal "finishing moves" (just as in God 
 of War, Star Wars the Force Unleashed and others) , and even worse psychological horror: each monster 
 is somehow the display of somebody's (if not Alex's inner self) evil secrets. There is an interesting 
 innovation to the enemies though, this time around you'll face the cult "goons" themselves, they 
 look just like in the movie, and even though they're weaker than the monsters, they're just as 
 good in fighting as you are, dodging, blocking and countering your every move.
  The game has improved a lot in terms of dialog, now, at some cutscenes, you can choose Alex's line 
 of topic during a conversation, some of those will even change the ending.
  During gameplay the player will find many collectbles other than the usual health drinks and ammunition. 
 Those consist of pictures, children's drawings and serums. The serums are very interesting: not 
 only do they replenish 100% of you health, they also make your health bar bigger.
  The inventory system is back to it's former self, it has a limit for bullets, but other than that 
 you're free to carry what you will.
  All in all Silent Hill Homecomming is one of the best in the series, perfect for any fan who will 
 be willing to overlook its problems. Others, however, may find it only good enough. In any case, 
 it is a very decent game, albeit with a vwery disturbing story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chex81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  an exciting game that has amazing visuals, great sound, an interesting story (though cliche) and 
 a better combat system. the game nailed presentation and atmosphere, thanks to the well detailed 
 environments and characters. The enemy AI is relentless, so be prepared to get attacked often... and 
 by groups. A nice addition, although many might not consider it important but i thought it grabbed 
 me further into the experience, was the realtime attacks shown on enemies when you hit them (knife 
 slashes leave deep carvings on enemies) . The puzzles are pretty simple but do exist, which is a 
 nice touch. The story isn't anything new for the series, but does a good job of keeping the player 
 interested. The combat system works very well but can sometimes feel clunky or delayed response... but 
 still, very fun. Game is about 8-10 hours long and not much incentive to go back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Masaru_Kato
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION When I first heard about this game I was pumped. I had played the original, dabbled 
 in the 2nd and 3rd, Suffered through all of the 4th, and actually really liked the movie. now, 
 when I saw the game footage for the first time, with the bathroom going into the darkness, with 
 all the paint peeling off the stalls and floor, just like the movie, I simply HAD to get this game. 
 I wasn't let down in the least. This game starts with the player know nothing, in fact, you're 
 so thrown into the middle of things at the start that I thought that I had accidentally skipped 
 a scene at first. but nope, I'm just a idiot. that aside, I was glad to see the game had a moment 
 of the 1st person, (which, I thought worked wonders for SH4) right at the beginning. it the main 
 character Alex Shepard, is pushed down what seems to be the torture hall way from the movie Hostel 
 while strapped to a stretcher. (for those looking for the Asian girl who gets her eye cut off and 
 has all that pancake batter gunking out... well you won't find her) this is one of the few scenes 
 in the game where I thought "the scary" felt a bit forced. all the flashing and the screaming, 
 just didn't do it for me, but all that changes as soon as the stretcher stops and you catch a glimpse 
 of good ole Red Triangle (pyramid head or whatever you'd like to call him) from then on you're thrown 
 into the mix whether you're ready or not. GAMEPLAY 8/10 For those of you who have played fatal 
 frame 2, you'll know that nothing is more frustrating than trying to save someone who likes to 
 run away from you. that was something that, until the ending revelation of this game, I HATED. 
 but again, by the end of it I actually liked it a bunch... kinda.
  
  But in between the beginning and end is some of the best silent hill game play that I can remember. 
 this game is by no means the easiest silent hill game, but it is definitely the easiest to play. 
 and by that I mean the game mechanics really are there so that the player has less focus on being 
 frustrated or bored, and is just neck deep in action. because the combat is so well done, there's 
 no excuse for getting your ass stabbed to death other than you. I really appreciated that, having 
 played a lot of silent hill 3, where, unless you toggle the 3D movement, the directional scheme 
 stays the same, even with all the set camera angle changes, meaning you had to re-learn the controls 
 every 3 seconds. Now I'm sure comments like that will be met with a lot of angry hardcores telling 
 me that I shouldn't be pissed because I sucked at Silent Hill 3. well I did suck, and I am pissed 
 cos I don't think it was entirely my fault lol but the new additions in SH Homecoming, like the 
 dodge button, and the light/heavy attack, and heavy attack charge, made the game for me. Gametrailers. com 
 in their review said that the combat was so well done that it didn't take into account the traditional 
 tension of an SH game, where you're afraid to fight things. well, while I think its a very well 
 thought out observation I would ultimately have to disagree. there were plenty of times I saw a 
 group of schisms or ferals and just said to myself **** the game keeps you at half life almost 
 90% of the time, so there was plenty of tension for me. a
  
  the one thing about the gameplay, that while I enjoyed, worries me is this; all the Shenmue/God 
 of War quick time button ques, were well done, but I just think that its such a gaming cliche these 
 days, that even when done well it feels lazy. so again, they're good, but I didn't like seeing 
 them In my silent hill... (now I never played Origins so if this isn't their debut, I apologize, 
 but my point still stands, I didn't like seeing it)
  
  another problem i had was with the flashlight. the game says that if its on, enemies will notice 
 and attack you, which is 100% true, but this implies that they wont notice you as well when the 
 flashlight is off... well, they notice you just the same for the most part, or at least i never 
 noticed any significant difference. this would have been fine, had they just not said anything.
 
  
  
  SOUND 10/10
  but back to SH Homecoming. the sound in this game is flawless, from the music to the creature noises, 
 there really isn't much to say here other than, wow, nice job Akira. STORY 6.8/10
  
  The story in this game, while among the easiest to follow, certainly isn't their strongest, and 
 there were a lot of things that I would have enjoyed hearing more about, like all the other missing 
 people or how it went down (again, I understand that these WERE talked about, I would have enjoyed 
 hearing about them more... they were interesting) . now to convey this story is some of the best 
 voice acting I have heard in a while, and the facial expressions in this game are almost always 
 flawless. I can only think of two times where the faces didn't move so well and that a scene with 
 the mayor, and a scene with a doctor. (hope that is as spoiler free as possible) other than that, 
 I was blown away by all the curling lips, eyebrow drops and everything. it was great. I also loved 
 that Alex sounded like a bad ass, having recently played Infinite Undiscovery, I needed to hear 
 something other than the "Dancing Rhapsody" and Alex's deep, slightly rasped, slightly hollow (or 
 guttural) voice hit the nail on the head. and while voice acting should probably go in the SOUND 
 section, to me it carries the story so its inter changeable.
  
  FUN FACTOR 9/10
  not enough reviewers take this into account so, here it is. I had LOADS of fun playing this game. 
 I couldn't put it down, I blasted through it in a few days, and plan on playing it again. there 
 is nothing quite like take the fire axe, fulling charging its heavy attack (another touch that 
 I loved) slamming it into a nurse, then, while she's on her knees, cutting her head off. its perfect. 
 GRAPHICS 8/10
  the lighting in this game was flawless. dynamic lighting made this game for me and I would have 
 loved to see more of it. the flashlight, which never runs out of batteries, was pretty sweet. when 
 you have it on you're like "this isn't lighting s h i t but as soon as you turn it off to check, 
 you realize you can't see a thing without it. the environments look like they re fresh out of the 
 movie, and a lot of it was. the monsters (especially the nurses) looked incredible, and when you 
 hit them with an axe there's a nice gash texture thrown on, so you finally get to feel like you're 
 beating the **** out everything. the only thing that didn't looks fantastic were the human character 
 models. sometimes their skin looked a bit plasticy, or just not finished. this isn't for everyone, 
 but for most of the people in silent hill.
  
  OVERALL 8/10
  
  Now I could average out the numbers and get a mathematically sound Overall score, but to me this 
 game feels like 7.9, but because Gamespot does everything by .5's, this game gets a little lucky 
 and is now an 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumoman25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: my review might contain a few spoilers, nothing huge, more or less the beginning of the game. 
 with that said lets start the review
  
  You play alex sheperd, a military man thats just been discharged. the first thing you will see 
 is your riding a (i have no idea what its called, lets call it a hospital bed lol) hospital bed, 
 as you look up you see a scary man with some blood on him in the hospital attire. he takes you 
 to a room despite your screaming and squirming and leaves you there. you inevitably break off the 
 wrist holds and are now stuck in a hospital. you must run around the hospital and search for the 
 exit. im not going to go any further than that but this game is incredibly good. The Story is perfect 
 for this game because it relates quite close to the movie. The graphics of silent hill homecoming 
 arent THE BEST but they are damn good. the only thing i noticed really bad about the graphics were 
 the peoples mouths, im sorry but they just dont move right. that doesnt make the game bad, but 
 its something that they should have looked into. After reading a review from another famous game 
 reviewing website, (Ignorant Gay Nerds) or you know, gave it a 6.5 saying it wasnt scary at all. 
 blasphemy!, during the hospital part (im not going to ruin it) I jumped when a creak happened and 
 a body fell out of the ceiling. With that said the other jump part in the hospital didnt scare 
 me unfortunately because ive seen it before. Im going to break the review down here and give my 
 scores for each of the elements in the game, note that im not completely done yet.
  
  Gameplay 8.9
  This would have been higher if i could adjust the sensitivity that alex sheperd 
 can turn at. however, the movement is pretty hooked in there. fights can be easily dealt with (maybe 
 a bit too easy) but the rarety for bullets makes the smoke monsters very hard. my only 2 complaints 
 are sensitivity for turning, and doors, you have to be right next to one of the sides to open it.
 
  
  Sound 10.0
  This is what makes the game scary, going through a hospital, thump thump, thump thump, the music 
 starts. Akira yamaoka did some great music for this game but he cant beat his own work from silent 
 hill 1. the sound gets such a high rating for the scare factor.
  
  graphics 9.0
  Where there not the best graphics they still deserve a 9 for being very nice, the reason i think 
 the graphics are somewhat under par is because the open worldness. the cemetery lasts for like 
 30 minutes and doesnt have a single load screen!
  
  Story 9.8
  the story is very nice for the game, relating to the movie very well. alex sheperd brings some 
 muscle to the table where as joshua, the sneaky little **** (sorreh) is always running from him 
 just like in the other silent hill games, (1,2,4) So with that said, i would give this game a total 
 score of 9.5 because its just fantastic for anyone interested in survival horror and silent hill 
 games. i would say rent before you buy though, the game has no multiplayer. i rent it then bought 
 it, its such a great game, go check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wkduffy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  As a longtime "Silent Hill" devotee (yes, all the way back to anxiously watching the game trailers 
 with that spooky mandolin music before the first one dropped) , allow me to make what some might 
 consider a blasphemous comparison: The vast majority of critics called the most recent "Alone in 
 the Dark" a "deeply flawed masterpiece" due to both the glitchy (yet innovative) gameplay, and 
 the cinematic (but collision-detection-impaired) visuals. I'd agree; the most recent "Alone in 
 the Dark" title was a flawed masterpiece. Fun, with lots of serious "Wow!" moments. And so darned 
 glitchy it was like some glitch monster spewed from glitch gulch had possessed my already glitchy 
 XBOX 360. 
  
  Well, the thing about "Silent Hill Homecoming" is that... it's neither. "SH Homecoming" is neither 
 flawed or glitchy (in any serious way) , but it's also not a masterpiece. It's a workaday game that 
 feels like a guilty pleasure from days gone by -- with updated graphics and tweaked gameplay. But 
 there is nothing innovative here (which the developers say was on purpose) , and very little in 
 the way of truly cinematic, breathtaking moments or gut-clenching story arcs. I can "get with" 
 the developer's vibe of remaining true to the franchise. But in making that important decision, 
 what players end up with is a game that makes you reminisce about days gone by (for the first few 
 hours) .... but soon after you realize that (perhaps) you've moved on from this kind of somewhat 
 dated gaming experience. Honestly, it gets a tad dull.
  
  So, here's where I am on this newest SH installment: Silent Hill -- as it was oh so many years ago -- was 
 enough for us THEN, but it may not really be enough for some of us NOW. Now that we've experienced 
 the gritty visceral horrors of the "Condemned" franchise, the glitchy cinematic huge-ness of "Alone 
 in the Dark," the icy chill of Alma's grip in the "Fear" franchise, and the horribly complex characters 
 and bloody-heart-chowing action in "The Darkness," maybe the cleavage-cleaving faceless nurses 
 (or ol' faithful Red Pyramid) in SH just aren't enough for us any longer. Plainly put: There wasn't 
 a single jump-outta-my-skin moment in "Homecoming" for me. And this is an unapologetic fanboy speaking 
 here.
  
  Maybe I've just become a jaded fanboy though. Oh well. I'm ready to be scared again. Bring on Dead 
 Space. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayosky
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  is a beautiful game, the graphics and the sound is very worked, the adrenaline complete you go 
 up and down, from head to foot. the bosses remember for the rest of your life, and the system of 
 battle is tactical and dynamic, the other silent hills are very monotonous. I put a ten, is a perfect 
 game , echo with dedication and effort, I am developer of games for the computer and xbox 360, 
 and note that there is great subtlety.
  
  is a beautiful game, the graphics and the sound is very worked, the adrenaline complete you go 
 up and down, from head to foot. the bosses remember for the rest of your life, and the system of 
 battle is tactical and dynamic, the other silent hills are very monotonous. I put a ten, is a perfect 
 game , echo with dedication and effort, I am developer of games for the computer and xbox 360, 
 and note that there is great subtlety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Llama_Arse
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  One would think that a game with the mechanics of Resident Evil 4 combined with the creepy setting 
 of Silent Hill would be a guaranteed success, but this is not the case with Silent Hill: Homecoming. 
 As a huge fan of the previous Silent Hill games, this author went into the sixth game in the series 
 with high expectations, especially considering it has been four years since the last proper sequel 
 in the series, with Silent Hill: Origins for the PSP being a prequel to the original game.
  
  The opening nightmare sequence gives you a good introduction to the new actions available, 
 such as dodging and rolling to avoid attacks, as well as some different context-sensitive actions 
 a la the previously mentioned RE4. These can include cutting through thin walls, jumping over short 
 obstacles, dropping down from and climbing up to ledges, hacking through boards with an axe, jumping 
 across small gaps and prying open stuck doors.
  
  Once you acquire a firearm, another similarity to RE4 becomes apparent. Rather than automatically 
 pointing at the nearest enemy when you draw a gun, the camera zooms in over your shoulder and a 
 targeting reticle appears, allowing you to aim for different parts of an enemy (this being a horror 
 game, head shots are obviously preferred) . Being a former soldier, your character is very accurate 
 with firearms, so there are no problems with the game's gun play. Ammunition, however, is at an 
 all time low for the series, so more often than not you'll find yourself moving in close for the 
 kill.
  
  The melee portion does not fare as well. The choices for melee weapons include a combat knife, 
 steel pipe and a fire axe, and knowing which to use against a given monster is crucial to survival 
 in this game. Anyone who has played the previous games in the series knows that melee combat has 
 always been one of the weakest parts of SH, so the addition of dodging as well as normal and strong 
 attacks that can form combos sounded like a welcome change.
  
  Unfortunately, the developer has "balanced" your new abilities by making the enemies much more 
 aggressive than in previous games, to the point that you may find yourself taken down by a single 
 nurse if you don't dodge and chain your attacks properly. One spider-like enemy may have you pulling 
 your hair from numerous cheap hits and knockdowns. Hitting the dodge button after a knockdown is 
 supposed to let you perform a kung fu-like recovery, but the game is very picky about the timing 
 of this move. Avoiding combat is more difficult than in previous titles, as the environments are 
 no longer broken up by loading screens, allowing enemies to follow you through open doors.
  
  All in all, the admittedly brief time this author spent with Silent Hill: Homecoming just created 
 nostalgia for the first three games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpshooter188
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:55 am PT
Review:  Ive been a hardcore silent hill fan since the beginning. The games always scared the hell out of 
 me. The psychological horror... the disturbing enviroments etc. what any fan of sh would love.... 
 but as some have pointed out.. thats not the case with this. MY theory of unknown around the corner 
 horror came from some horribly disfigured thing that was ready to kill you in the most absurb, 
 agonizing, and slow way possible was what made the unknown horror so popular. 
  
  The problem is once youve seen whats around the corner and you know what it is and how to kill 
 it. suddenly your not bothered by the fear of it and you just look to fight it. 
  
  This is by far the goriest silent hill there is. Which is a good and bad thing. The fact that the 
 horror is so direct eliminates teh possibility of any mind games the game used to play on you. 
 while some of the creatures do kill you in interesting ways. They are seen much too often go down 
 pretty easily. There are no real special death animations which make you drop your jaw. No startling 
 or disturbing rooms to enter... and the fact that this game pulls so much from the movie really 
 annoys me. SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER The cult was not so prevelent in any other game other then this 
 one. I know thats what the new crew was gunning for but they did it haphazardly. 
  
  I think if your going to go with such direct gore and storyline youve got to do it right.. this 
 game feels as though it went the direction of resident evil. The fact that they wanted to make 
 the terror of your mind scares real was a good thought at first but poorly executed. ID say wait 
 for the price to go down and possibly buy it for completion sake. otherwise just wait for resident 
 evil 5 or just pick out one of the other SH or RE games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otanikun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  How many adventures have we been through in the town of Silent Hill?
  Quite a few, and to see the series be brought to the next generation with enhanced graphics and 
 new storyline, it's a welcome addition to anybodies collection.
  
  This year we a sucked into the world of Shepperd's Glen, a small town adjacent to Silent Hill it's 
 self, I would suppose it's not too far from the town of South Ashfield where we last saw Henry 
 Townshend.
  
  Main protagonist Alex Sheppard is a war vet that comes back home and immediately notices something 
 is amiss; the town is nearly devoid of all human life and the entire town is shrouded in thick 
 white fog.
  He immediately finds out that his brother is missing and his father and mother have something to 
 do with his current whereabouts.
  
  This sets about your adventure through the game, and there are quite a few stirring surprises throughout, 
 it surely doesn't disappoint in a couple of scares now and then.
  
  But to get to the bread and butter is the enhanced graphics and new controls.
  Next gen graphics 
 really let the town of Sheppard's Glen and Silent Hill pop out over the original titles, although 
 the signature noise or grain like filter seems to be missing.
  Skin textures look pretty good and the environments really disturb and surprise.
  
  The game 
 play has evolved in terms of handling; this time around it emphasizes counter-attacking and quick 
 thinking, but not without the occasional button mashing sequence.
  Alex, considering he is a war vet, he is a little bit more offensive than the other unfortunate 
 souls that have had to endure Silent Hill's hellish world, his handling with a gun is open to a 
 free aiming mode that with the correct aim, can kill an enemy with a well placed shot to the head.
 
  
  Also to love is the brutal take-downs or finishers or kills, whatever you want to call them; with 
 any of the weapons that you happen to acquire, cept the guns, the pipe, knife and crowbar and on 
 and on, each have their own satisfying kill sequence.
  Take the axe for example, when an enemy is about to submit for a death dealing blow, Alex will 
 lift his weapon with a wide swing and off goes the head, bloody and brutal it's a sight to enjoy.
 
  
  But there are a couple of things that either newcomers to the series or old time fans may not like 
 very much; this includes myself.
  I am sorry if this gets anybody excited but this part will contain a small spoiler or two, so avert 
 your vision for a few sentences or so.
  
  During a small part in the game Alex will head home to visit his mother, this is the initial part 
 of the game after meeting the towns judge, Miss Halloway; going down into the basement it's flooded 
 completely and of course you have the privilege of exploring a dank and dark basement, pretty spooky.
 
  Going down into it you'll activate a small cut scene in which Alex wades into the water and watches 
 a ripple cut through the water, a Lurker, one of the games new enemies, pops up out of the water; 
 so whip out your knife and slash away until it's literally dead in the water.
  
  Quite frankly there is no explanation as to why this thing pops up out of the water, none whatsoever, 
 it's just there and you have to kill it, no questions asked; well with the exception as to why 
 the hell was it there to begin with?
  
  But it doesn't really end there.
  The controls themselves while a little different, also add another level of frustration, rather 
 than excite. Your character feels a little on the heavy side and some of the reactions can be a 
 little slow, miss a small window of time to counter or dodge and you'll end up on your behind, 
 and you're a little slow getting up.
  
  The puzzles this time around are a little different but not too hard to figure out, a couple of 
 them require you to fit pieces of a picture together by shuffling the pieces on a board.
  Perhaps a little frustrating but not too difficult.
  
  Then again comes the short adventure 
 time, I'd have to say that this game really doesn't take more than 5 or such hours to strafe through 
 the entire adventure, the other games I'm sure offered more but that's because they packed so much 
 like spooky notes and several items to collect to complete a puzzle, this time around it's pretty 
 much a strait path and you really can't miss anything.
  
  Well I guess there really isn't much to complain about unless you can find something that I might 
 have missed but, this game is still pretty solid and delves deeper into the mystery of the town 
 and brings to light some hidden secrets of Silent Hills cult, The Order.
  
  Alex is a character that is fresh and new and while not the best character, is one you'll like 
 none the less.
  
  My recommendation is to get this game if your a big fan and enjoy the many sights and spooky ambient 
 music that permeates the entire game, but for those that may be newbies to the series, you'll want 
 to read a review or two or rent it first.
  While you don't need to play the other games to understand it, you'll want to any way just to understand 
 the full gamete of what the town offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Numb094
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill: Homecoming shows some of the more committed survival horror fans, that there still 
 is light for the genre, and this series still shines bright in its milieu where things like Resident 
 Evil has packed its bags and moved on to something more broad, yet less distinct and beyond the 
 original fashion, leaving no other successful survival horror series developed by Japanese. Silent 
 Hill is a lone wolf in the realm of survival horrors and how they're meant to be made and played.
 
  
  This leaves Silent Hill with a notable and underrated quality, and I would hope that Konami continues 
 to collaborate new stores while never straying too far from their traditional and classic style 
 of gameplay they invented for the series.
  
  As a fan of survival horror I have to admit the change of pace from fast-shooters, free-roaming 
 RPG's, 2D arcade games, platformers, and racing games, to a creepy, somber-like experience with 
 Silent Hill is a breath of fresh air, and can be to any gamer with a little sense of adventure 
 and a tiring, dry eye for repetition. If you're tired of boring war shooters, RPG's and platformers, 
 treat yourself to this refreshingly grate mood and immerse yourself in the spooky, well-crafted 
 new direction of the Silent Hill series. It's got plenty to offer the casual, experienced and hardcore 
 survival horror gamer alike.
  
  
  GAME RATING:
  
  Graphics: Remarkable, yet deliberately not intensely realistic to avoid reaching out of their own 
 realm of originality and creation. (Example: Konami probably designed the models' animations with 
 no intention of capturing a full-on realistic motion) .
  
  Controls: Puzzles frustrating with use of D-pads.
  
  Story: For Silent Hill it wasn't nearly 
 as strange and solo as previous stories in the series, and it offered more characters to join your 
 quest and to aid throughout, while also offering the mechanic that your outcomes play off many 
 of the choices you make throughout the game. The story itself plays out on the elements of one 
 character's mind, and the end-game doesn't offer much more than the satisfaction you have when 
 completing the game and the sense of completion. That's all it needs, but Konami felt if more content 
 was added to be achieved again and again after completion, people would be playing longer, but 
 frankly once through, it isn't so much the lack of content rewarded, but more the content itself. 
 It's hardly meritable. Online co-op would've suited better, and possibly be everlasting for many 
 Silent Hill fans.
  
  Gameplay: The game possibly has the most intense, fun and least frustrating gameplay I've seen 
 in a game since Resident Evil 4, and there really aren't many games these days that capture that 
 feeling of suspense and simulate life-like intense battles while operating on a system that works 
 around your pace. Take it for what its worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  Story:
  You are Alex just recently came home from the hospital and when he arrives the whole town is empty 
 except for few people. When he came to his house the only person he found was his mother confuse, 
 he does not know where his bother Joshua is at. So Alex has to find his little bother and has to 
 know what is going on in this town.
  
  Graphics/Music:
  The graphic's are quite the same as the previous silent Hill games. But this time it's more up 
 to date graphics, but when you see a cut-scene the emotions of the characters doesn't really show 
 any expressions at all. But it's not bad for a game. I really love all the Silent Hill Music and 
 probably this music is quite good as well.
  
  Combat/Others:
  When you are fighting the monsters or the bosses sometimes it takes quite long to swing or block 
 an attack. The ammo is hard to come by but if you use it wisely then you shouldn't have any problems 
 with fighting. Some of the weapons are really slow but the best one was the dagger it's quite fast 
 to use. For medicine sometimes this can be hard to get, but make sure you use it wisely when it's 
 needed. Some of the bosses are easy and some are quite difficult. The puzzles are really easy as 
 well. Only one time the game froze on me, and some parts might have glitches.
  
  Overall:
  This game is really fun if you are really big fan of Silent Hill series. I'm a big 
 Fan of this game and I really enjoy every bits of the game. If you are new to the series you should 
 get the others and play them to understand.
  
  Thanks for reading my review -Hintaki- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: varadoaqui
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  
  At first I liked a lot:
  Action from the start with some simple puzzles. Good visual and aural ambience. Fairly hold.
 
  
  The graphics are not cutting edge, but honestly does not matter, because it is very good atmosphere. 
 At the beginning of the game can be mistakenly think we are going to play a real must-have.
  
  But as the game goes, no longer looks like a Silent Hill. Only fights and more fights. Little 
 by little is becoming annoying to have to travel quite long scenes without making anything other 
 than defend the enemies. This may be good in other games, but I bought the Silent Hill Homecoming 
 in the hope of playing a real game like Silent Hill of yore.
  
  I was very wrong, and I really feel very disappointed.
  
  Another thing to me was very unpleasant, 
 is the lack of an option to reverse the axis Y.
  
  Greetings.
  
  PD.- Excuse my english. I'm learning.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: croy_00
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  A lot of people gave this game bad hype since the start because of the different development team 
 and the fact that the save points were to far apart. The problem is nowadays all of the gamers 
 have gotten soft. This game is not going to be easy and it might take some trial and error however 
 with some patients you will find that this game is quite good and frankly I can't wait for the 
 next one. The combat engine will take some time to develop your dodging skills as it seems to rely 
 alot on your counter-attack's. However once you get that down the heavily based fighting sections 
 of the game seem to bring something a little different then what we are used to and it's actually 
 pretty darn fun. The visuals in this game are quite solid especially the character models and it's 
 not riddled with a mess of bugs like a lot of the games we have seen lately. Great job Konami this 
 game is a must play for fans of this genre. At least give it a rent you've got nothing to lose 
 other than your mind in the depth's of hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HydroTitan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was very fun and addicting. I beat the game 6 times in 3 days. The last 3 bosses are 
 very tough to beat. It is a very scary game the first time you play it. The enemies are very fresh 
 and this was a very good game for being the first silent hill game i have ever played. The only 
 down falls about the game is that it is way to short, there are not alot of bosses, there are not 
 alot of enemy types. Pyramid Head should have been a boss in the game, he rules out of all of the 
 characters. The hardest boss in the game is Scarlet because of her second form that moves way to 
 fast and kills me every time i fight her. All of the bosses are really scary especially Amnion. 
 Asphyxia is the worst boss in the game because she is easy to kill and she is a pain to fight. 
 The game overall is well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drir495
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good. I have enjoyed it very much so far. The graphics are pretty good, the 
 sound is really good, and the gameplay is wicked fun. My only big problems with this game are
  -the characters' mouth movements during cutscenes (they look really wierd and squirmy)
  -this 
 game is about jump scares instead of mood tension. what I mean by that is that things will pop 
 out at you. In past silent hill games the fright was all phsycological. There would be eerie music, your 
 radio going, and the darkness combined to create a vary frightening experience. now, the radio 
 goes off and a dog jumps out at you... thats it... The way that the developers tried to make up 
 for this is by making your flashlight very weak so you cant see very well.
  -The difficulty can be frustrating. Another way to make up for tension in this game that the devs 
 did is give you very little health and ammo. Its annoying.
  
  other than those few problems, i have thoroughly enjoyed this game. The action is great and the 
 shooting and melee mechanics are much improved. Also i enjoy the puzzles. They can be very fun and 
 their difficulty is just right.
  
  graphics- 9/10
  sound-10/10
  game play-9/10 (i experienced a bug where the game wouldnt let me shoot or move so i had to go 
 back to my last save)
  HOW SCARY IT IS-6/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asator_x72x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is Great and Entertaining. Its a Great edition to the Series and has a Great story that 
 will make you keep Playing till you discover the Truth. 
  One problem I encountered was the Lighting in the game. It was pretty dam DARK! Even with the in-game 
 Lighting turned up all the way, It was still slightly dark, In the end I just turned up the TV 
 brightness which solved the problem. 
  
  Combat System is a good start, but may need a little improvement. Though I did appreciate the Action 
 put into the game such as Rapidly press the button on the screen and actually Fighting instead 
 of Running around a creature pretty much of no threat. Well you can still kinda do that in Homecoming, 
 but Still will be necessary to kill most monsters since you need to concentrate on items or things 
 of importance.
  
  The puzzles were not to bad Except for one that took a lot of time and stress. 
  
  Violence 
 and Gore is pretty high in this game, No wonder why they banned the game in Australia. (sorry = ( 
 )
  
  All in all, its a Must buy for fans and must rent for others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lalocupra68
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  En mi opinin este juego tiene una muy buena historia. Muy aparte de los parecidos entre los anteriores 
 juegos de Silent Hill este innova un nuevo sistema de pelea que la verdad le da mucho mas accin 
 al juego debido a que en los anteriores ttulos era mejor huir de los monstruos que enfrentarlos.
 
  
  Algo que siento que le falto fue mas grficos y no es por que tenga malos grficos pero pudieron 
 haber explotado mas el potencial de una consola Xbox 360 para as realizar un juego de horror con 
 grficos de nueva generacin (como lo hizo capcom con Resident Evil 5 que por lo menos en los trailers 
 y gameplays se ve con unos grficos excelentes) .
  
  Es lo nico que pienso que le hizo falta a este juego y que hubiese sido un poco mas largo pero 
 de ah en fuera la historia muy buena la ambientacin muy buenas el sonido muy bueno los monstruos 
 estn bien hechos es un juego que supera a sus predecesores. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TalSet_11
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  while not without its problems, silent hill: homecomming is sure to delight fans of the now-ancient 
 survival horror franchise, as well as win over some new fans. while the game takes on a slightly 
 different, more down home feel, the silent hill vibe is everywhere. the thick, seemlingly impermiable 
 fog? yep. the screwy monstors? why, yes. we have those here. the awesome puzzles? we've got those. 
 cool weapons? but of course! great graphical presentation coupled with great voice acting? c'mon! 
 this is a silent hill game! 
  
  the game takes good advantage of the Havok engine, and uses its grain filter to greater degree 
 over past silent hill games. the graphical display is decidedly different over last games, however. 
 for instance, the environment now contains "loose" objects, which can be maniuplated. while this 
 doesn't affect gameplay much, it gives the game world a feeling that you're in the world, not on 
 top of it. 
  
  the audio is fantastic. the musical score is the highlight here. the wonderful ambient music (now 
 complete with full percussion tracks in some instances) is to die for. the voice acting is of the 
 highest caliber, and the voice actors are masters of thier craft, blending the emotion (or sometimes 
 lack thereof) into the on-screen character's facial expressions perfectly. in fact, all of the 
 audio plays into the on-screen action very well, and is worthy of note (possibly an award) .
  
  the combat has been revamped as well. gone are the days of standing around, impotent, using 
 your one and only attack on monsters. now you can dodge, throw a combo with your lead pipe, and 
 finish it off with a skull-smashing tone that is displayed in all its bloody glory on screen. the 
 combat is a refreshing turn for the series.
  
  the puzzles are back, too. the same survival-horror puzzles we grew up with. the same "take this 
 item, do something with it, and bring it back to a certain place to use it" puzzles are here en 
 masse. but there are also the great silent hill puzzles (remember the camera puzzle in silent hill 
 2? not to give anything away, but there are certainly similar puzzles in this game)
  
  there are a few plot spots that don't make sense, but double helix didn't paint themselves into 
 a corner. the game still opens itself up for a sequel (thank god. we can't have the saga of silent 
 hill coming to a close, now can we?) and there are a few glitches and frame jumps, especially in 
 areas where there are a lot of objects on screen, but this shouldn't be too much of a problem.
 
  
  all in all, i would give this game a 9. it ain't perfect, but this is certainly an exciting new 
 addition to a series that holds a special place in my heart. fans of the series will love it, and 
 i'm sure new fans will enjoy it as well. it's got the same great things we expect of the series 
 (pyramid head... hello!?) so do yourself a favor and scoop this one up when you get a chance. if 
 you're a fan of survival horror, this should tide you over until dead space comes out. welcome 
 back to silent hill!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcod1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game starts out pretty intense. I won't give it away but it feels like you are watching a 
 preview to another "hostel" movie and just when you are ready to hit the start button, the game 
 hands off the game for you begin. Pretty good stuff!!
  
  After the game begins you are drawn in immediately into the story and try as you might, you won't 
 be able to leave the game for a while.
  
  I have left the hospital level and so far I am enjoying this game immensely. I have played all 
 of the past SH games as well as the current crop of horror genre games and this game (so far) stands 
 head and shoulders above the crop.
  
  The graphics give off a grainy 50's horror look and feel that lends a nice touch to the game. The 
 fighting system has been improved. The story line is good and pretty easy to follow.
  
  All in all, you won't be dissapointed forkeing over $60 for this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suplax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  The first appearance if Silent Hill game was revolutionary, after the release of the first Silent 
 Hill on video games it become a great franchise (even with a movie !! yeahh!! ) . Homecoming is 
 a great game but still cant beat the first one for the PS1. But dont underestimate Homecoming, 
 its still can make you scream like a little girl if you play in the right mood.
  The homecoming visuals are great ,the sounds are very good too, monsters AI are not bad, the game 
 is still freak about the monsters type and the history ( freak means nice on Silent Hill xD) . You 
 will spend a lot of time playing it because there a lot of things to do and five different endings. 
 I normally recommend people to rent before buy a game but there is no need to rent this one is 
 just a waste of money , go and instead of rent , buy it. Believe me if you like horror games this 
 one will not let you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kgansor
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  I was doing ok until the hotel boss made me use my 2 health kits and 6 drinks when I got spammed 
 into a corner. After that battle it seems that there are no more med kits at all, very very few 
 serums, and maybe 1 or 2 drinks per level which has come to make the game almost unbeatable. I 
 got stuck on scarlet which is the halfway point in the game and I dont have enough health to beat 
 her. I dont want to start over and it dosnt look like im getting past her. I may return this otherwise 
 great game because the agrivation is worth the reward this time arround. Plus there is no easy 
 setting. I wouldnt recomend it for casual gamers. The story is kind of lacking too. I dont love 
 anyone in this life enough to go through the absolute hell portrayed in this game... especially 
 when they keep running from me everytime I try to talk to them. Its nice to be back in silent hill... 
 But only half the game has been spent there so far. This is just my initial take on the first half 
 of the game. But like I said health is ridiculously rare for this type of game and one bad boss 
 battle can ruin the rest of the game, stop you dead in your tracks, or make for what some people 
 consider fun ,seat of your pants (barely) survival horror game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerprince
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This game EASILY beats the rest for best in series but even if you never played any of the others 
 you simply MUSt get this game. Best 60 bucks youll ever spend. EVER. GO BUY THIS MASTERPIECE NOW. 
 Homecoming lives up to all the hype and a HELL of a lot more with all the amazingly easy and in 
 depth controls, perfect camera, combo system, graphics and probably most of all the storyline and 
 boss battles. GO GET THIS PIECE OF PERFECTION NOW! Don't listen to all the idiots reviewing this 
 game saying stupid stuff like "BUT SILENT HILL ISNT ABOUT BEING ABLE TO FIGHT" or "WHY IS PYRAMID 
 HEAD IN IT, IT DOESNT MAKE SENCE". First off the fact that you can finally fight comes into play 
 very nicely with the fact that monsters are EVERYWHERE. Also pyramid head can be in ANY of the 
 games and it would make sence. Hes in the silent hil lworld as a whole. Thats like saying why is 
 there fog in this one? lol GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josmith16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I waited until late at night when it's dark outside, put the game in, started a new game, put it 
 on Hard difficulty, adjusted the game lighting to what I liked, turned the surround sound up, turned 
 all the lights off, and climbed into the game known as Silent Hill.
  When I say I climbed into the game, I literally mean that. With all my lights off and my surround 
 sound turned up, it's just me and the game. Every bump, creak, scrap and sound leaves me tense 
 and anxious. Every corner I turn leaves in fear of what might be lurking in the shadows. Why am 
 I in fear of what lurking around the corner? It's simple. I'm playing on Hard difficulty and almost 
 anything I run into poses a huge problem for my survival. Most things I've got through with some 
 effort, but if it was just getting through a monster that would be simple. I just restart from 
 my last save, but the saves are about an hour and a half apart each night I've played. So, it the 
 fear that I might lose an hour and half worth of play along with the fact that things are so easy 
 to kill on the Hard Level. Last night after an hour and half, I tried to get through a creature 
 that appear in front of me, but I could not kill it. After four times, I finally decided I just 
 need to run through the cemetery to the save point and save my progress. It took me three times 
 to make it to the save point. Fear. That what I would call it, just plain FEAR. What ever reason 
 that I was afraid being the environment, the distance between saves or just the fear of the chase. 
 I would say if this game isn't what you thought it was suppose to be, the you might just need to 
 change the difficulty level, the time you play it and how your playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuvze
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  after major dissapointments lately for horror action adventure fans, silent hill homecoming is welcoming 
 in every way. first of all yes this game has a freely moving camera, a great 3rd person view with 
 simplified controls, awesome scary environments, well detailed, suitable lit and graphically rich 
 enough to make you bite your nails throuhout. the combat system is great, scary story, real creepy 
 taunting feel very deeply given to make this game a top notch one in this genre. unlike alone in 
 the dark the combat system is so well made with no camera hiccups anywhere, survival horror type 
 action system is eliminated allowing a freedom within the game making is less frustrating, other 
 than the creepiness which is filled in it. the game has some amazing sound system with creeking 
 of doors to loud door lock jamming and everything you would want. graphics is great, learning curve 
 is easy, and so are the game options. try switching of the vibration in your controller, if you wanna 
 reduce the heartbeat. it helps..!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awfultruth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  Whoever says they are not satisfied should be punched the ear, cuz i hate you. I've always been 
 a so so fan to the silent hill series, but this one pushes it right to resident evils level. If 
 you never played a silent hill you can still jump right and play this one, tho the story won't 
 be as interesting for other that see and notice things from the previous silent hills, you will 
 still be on the edge your seat craving more from the bastards that made it. From the begin to the 
 end I was completely freaked out, Non-stop things poping out and never getting tired of fight things, 
 cause something new always came in, not that I minded fighting the big breasted nurses, kinda felt 
 bad killing them, its like slapping god in the face for making something beautiful. Top quality 
 my lil amigos, Gonna say it one more time, right up resident evils ass. Keep up the good work, 
 looking to be freaked out again soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cejay0813
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Even though I'm more of a RE fan I was truly interested in SH: H so I decided to put the 64 bucks 
 down and snag it. It's literally coming to a point now where I just have too many games but that's 
 off topic.
  
  Silent Hill has to be the most underappreciated game I have ever played, based simply on the fact 
 that the review avg doesnt reflect how awesome this game is. You can count on my opinion as being 
 totally unbiased because if you take a look at my gamercard I play all sorts of games.
  
  Graphics 9.0
  Compared to past SH games of course the graphics are better. There were times when 
 I thought I was watching the movie. There are times where I thought it was just too dark but thats 
 something that can easily be fixed through TV/in-game adjustments
  
  Gameplay 9.5
  This is what I love about the game aside from RE. The game makes you feel so weak against the opposition. 
 When starting out you're only armed with a combat knife, a little after that you get a pipe... woopdedoo. 
 In sharp contrast to the arsenal you're given in RE:4 for instance. Targeting works really well 
 by locking on to the enemy nearest you and when you need to switch its an easy flick of the right 
 stick. The camera take a lower more cenematic angle behind Alex when targeting, and with the flashlight 
 shining on the creatures ugly faces, the game looks really engaging. Killing is always fun in games 
 right..? and with SH its even more fun with the way Alex can dispatch some foes. For instance, 
 knocking a demon dog to the ground with a pipe and then stabbing him through the head is oh so 
 fulfilling
  
  Controls 8.5
  One thing thats annoying that I personally can get used to (and already have) is the fact that 
 you can't invert the camera (up=down) . This is honestly such a small flaw to such a great game 
 so don't let it deter you from at least a rental. It took about 30-60min for me to fully get used 
 to it, and I feel that it's something that can be fixed with a patch so no biggie. 
  
  Other than that the controls are simple. Sort of like RE4 but you can actually dodge left and right 
 which is pretty awesome.
  
  Sound 10
  From the bone crackling steps of the nurses, to the frightening background noises this game can 
 make a scary movie look like a halloween episode of the Backyardigans (.... yes the Backyaaaardigaaaans) . 
 Lights off and volume up for this one, if not, your a p****
  
  Story 8.5
  As far as I have gotten in the game the story seems to be coming along nicely so I gave it an optimistic 
 score. I won't spoil anything but I recommend giving the game a shot based on the other criteria. 
 It can't be any worst the scary movies out today
  
  
  Overall Score 9.0 which is a must buy IMO. Coming from a game collector I don't regret buying it 
 at all and trust me there are some games I have in my library that I regret buying, but I won't 
 name names *cough* Mercenaries 2 *cough*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Silent Hill: Homecoming is a wonderful addition to the Silent Hill game series. The game is very 
 immersive and pulls you right into the hauntingly creepy atmosphere of Silent Hill. The game takes 
 a lot of aspects from the older games in the series and explodes them on the screen with modern 
 graphics and digital sound. It has many different types of rooms, levels, atmospheres. You don't 
 do the same thing over and over and over again. It scares the heck out of me. I absolutely love 
 a game puts me in a dramatic and frightening environment that is creepy and chilling with enemies 
 and problems to solve, plus a great story. The soundtrack to is also amazing, The strategy guide 
 helps out to with the maps and everything. I really like the branching dialog and the replay ability, 
 with more then one ending and the whole branching dialog thing. in conclusion it's the most scariest 
 games I ever played, so let me put it that way, it's the scariest SH game i ever played, believe 
 me i played many scary games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daemonstar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  Since I have never owned a Playstation, I haven't had the opportunity to play the previous Silent 
 Hill games, except for The Room (4) . My wife and I actually enjoyed Silent Hill 4, even though 
 I know of how much flack it gets from certain areas of the Silent Hill community. Actually, my 
 wife watched me play it and became engrossed with the story, which is what has happened with Homecoming, 
 too; I'm not allowed to play it unless she's there to watch. 
  
  Anyway, on to the review:
  
  Likes:
  
  Atmosphere:
  Silent Hill wouldn't be Silent Hill 
 without the engaging atmosphere. It's foggy, it's decaying, the sounds are haunting: it just gets 
 it right. I do like the "transition" effects, too, that mimic the the Silent Hill movie.
  
  Action:
  From what I understand from previous games, the action has been greatly improved. The 
 dodge works fairly well if you time it right. There seem to be a bit more fight opportunities than 
 before. Following Resident Evil 4, a type of quick-time events has been inserted during fights.
 
  
  
  Dislikes:
  
  Cut scenes:
  Although the in-game action looks good, the cut scene graphics are quite under par for the 360. 
 In this day and age, this is bordering on unacceptable. The lip syncing is a bit off. Some characters 
 voices don't match well with their appearance, either.
  
  Movement:
  My quibble with the movement aspect isn't so much as the camera angle is bad (which it really isn't) , 
 but that you can't customize the camera speed. When you come out of a door and hear a noise to 
 the right, he takes more of a slow turn than a "what was that?" kind of motion. Also, there is 
 no quick-turn.
  
  Action:
  One thing I found that is a bit of a detriment to the action is that trying to enter the inventory 
 to get a health pack is a bit awkward. It doesn't always let you in while you're in the process 
 of getting hacked repeatedly by a nurse. Also, enemies tend to get in cheap shots after knocking 
 you down, especially if several are coming after you.
  
  
  Conclusion:
  
  The Silent Hill series isn't for everyone. It sometimes can be a bit slow, especially when you're 
 trying to figure out exactly what to do next; the objectives can be a bit vague at times, but they're 
 no more vague than in real life. If you like horror with a mix of puzzles and action, then this 
 should be for you. FPS junkies should steer clear.
  
  My rating: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trollop_scat
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  I'm a survival horror guy. I play the games, read the books, daydream about it, you name it. Silent 
 Hill 5 hit the spot.
  
  The game starts out a little slow, and bogs down with broken locks, wood planks, and jump/duck 
 actions. The combat is also really hard until you get the hang of it (dodge!) . But the game grows 
 on you and keeps you coming back.
  
  The game's graphics are great, but overly dark. The enemies are redundant, but hard enough to cause 
 you to dread them. The puzzles are tricky, but nothing you can't handle. You'll put up with the 
 game's short-commings to advance the story, which is all worth it by the end.
  
  If you're a survival horror fan, this is a can't-miss game, believe that. If you liked the first 
 Silent Hills and old Resident Evil games, you'll love this game. Rent, buy... up to you. Regardeless, 
 you need to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thashining
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game.
  They really out did themselves.
  **** these Critics!!!
  I don't think they even played the same game I played!
  For years every critic has criticized 
 the Silent Hill series for the camera & fighting.
  They fixed that and these fools are still complaining!
  Resident Evil is great... but Silent Hill 
 is a damn experience! Nothing can compare to the story telling of this game. It may not be the 
 best story in the series, but it is very good. The setting and characters are disturbing and creepy.
 
  Oh well, I think the fans have spoken!
  There is absolutely NO way of pleasing some people.
  IGN (I Got Nothin') & GamePro-sti-tute can 
 go to hell!
  Same for Gamespot if they do the same thing.
  In my restless dreams I see that place.
  Silent Hill.
  They Promised they would take me there.
 
  They did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eduardojh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I got the game since the last saturday and Ive played it about an hour and a half, but I have 
 to say that so far is a very good product. The developers fixed many things since the last one 
 like the camera and the gameplay and I have agree with other users when they say that is less scary 
 than before, however isn`t a big deal because the atmosphere sucks you in.
  The graphics are on par with the actual gen plus they are very detailed, perhaps theyre a bit 
 dark at times but the SH titles were always that way.
  The music is great thanks to Mr. Yamaoka and the voice work is well done. 
  The combat mechanic 
 was improved and you fell that your character really had an intense training when he was in the 
 army, they added attack, defense and counter attack moves.
  The monster design is interesting and very detailed with a mix of classic abominations like the 
 nurses and new ones like the needler and siam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nynthninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I want to know what happened to my Silent Hill? Well not MY Silent Hill per say. But i have easily 
 put over 200 hours playing every SH over and over. Its my Favorite series. This one is Silent Hill: 
 The Movie, The Game.
  
  Plot Holes, Story, and new town aside, it is good.
  
  Graphics-Alright, not what matters most to me but its definetly american designers. Im American 
 i can recognize it. 
  
  Sound- Thank the lord Akira is still on board, soundtrack is bangin' voice acting is what the SH 
 standard is expected to be.
  
  Gameplay- Heres the fun since when can a nurse deflect a swinging axe? Battle system is workable 
 a little more testing would have gone a long way. Having Alex be a fighter kind of takes away the 
 fear of running into a creature. But the fear of dying is there which you never have to fear in 
 a Silent Hill up until this one not cause its hard more like sometimes cheap.
  
  Replay- i am pumped about 5 endings cant complain.
  
  Comments- I must say i cant really acknowledge 
 this as part of the Silent Hill world. If it was its own IP tho Double Helix could be a contender,
 
  
  
  EDIT: Cant believe i forgot this..... I hate, HATE it when you have a badass character thats thrown 
 in for effect.... ie pyramid head. Yes to those who beat it i know he serves his purpose... but a 
 bogeyman eck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindboy19
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Having been a fan of the Silent Hill series for a long time, I dreaded the advent of Silent Hill: 
 Homecoming, hoping it would be good, but fearing that it wouldn't retain the subtle artistry of 
 the previous games. Sadly, it did just that. 
  
  In many ways, it's like watching an American horror movie based on a Japanese horror, such as Ringu, 
 or One Missed Call. The original Japanese film was subtle, creepy, and had a general air of tension 
 and otherworldly weirdness that got under your skin. The American version made it blatant, and 
 ruined much of that feeling so American audiences wouldn't find it boring. Such was the feeling 
 I got playing this game. 
  
  For me, Silent Hill has always been about a subtle psychological terror that stays with you, with 
 various moments of sheer insanity that make you question the protagonists sanity, as well as the 
 sanity of the developers. However, this addition misses that completely, depending on cheap horror 
 tricks that are frankly weak in comparison. The set parts are there, but it feels shallow. More 
 so, the horror was blatantly obvious, and thus the impact was minimal, leaving me feel like I was 
 playing something completely different, wondering where Silent Hill had gone. Sure, I was in the 
 foggy town, the rusted hell was there, and there were nightmarish monsters, but... It just didn't 
 feel right. There was no feeling of crawling terror gnawing at me while I played, just the superficial 
 annoyance of having to fight monsters. It felt fake.
  
  In response to this initial feeling, I decided to forget I had ever played a Silent Hill game before 
 this, and set out to give it a fair, unbiased shot. What I got was a fairly mediocre survival horror 
 that lacked substance. There were a number of really awful design decisions involving a criminal 
 lack of health items, plot essential doors that blend into the walls, and other frustrating things, 
 and that's just the beginning. The character animations and lip syncing were shoddy, and the hair 
 animation looked dreadful, so horrible it removed me entirely from the moment. Furthermore, it 
 failed to have a single scary or psychologically wrecking moment. It felt like the soul of the 
 game had left.
  
  However, there were a number of good things. The protagonist, Alex, is fairly likable. The monsters, 
 despite them being far too defined and over the top, look damn good. The combat is better, and 
 the crappy camera angles are no more- although I must say I miss them. The dialog doesn't sound 
 like it was written by a Japanese person with only a passing understanding of the English language, 
 and the voice acting was good. The graphics were also very good, and the soundtrack was fantastic- 
 Typical of work by Akira Yamaoka. The atmosphere and plot, while not quite up to par, were fairly 
 well executed.
  
  Even so, I felt it went in the wrong direction. With next gen consoles, I've only seen one survival 
 horror that has truly scared me- Condemned. If SH: H had gleaned some of what made Condemned so 
 psychologically scarring, I feel it would have been better. Also, another 3 months of development 
 seemed in order, as many parts seemed like they needed a lot of work. 
  
  The plot follows Alex Shepherd, a soldier returning from whatever war to return to his family in 
 a town near Silent Hill. He returns to find Silent Hill's evil slowly infecting the town like some 
 sort of apocalypse virus, which is rather interesting to experience. As he continues, he becomes 
 entrenched in a conspiracy involving an opposing sect of the Silent Hill cult, seemingly related 
 to that of the movie. It then gets weirder from there, although in many ways I was disappointed, 
 as there are sequences that seem like they were taken directly from films like Saw and Hostel, 
 and that approach to horror seems like somewhat of a cop out. 
  
  The gameplay is decent, the new combat system, while needing a bit of work, is good. There are 
 a number of very bad design decisions, such as having plot essential doors blend into walls and 
 respawning monsters with no health packs for miles around, but it's all more or less decent- not 
 remarkable, but not completely unplayable. The sound is very well done, the graphics are smooth 
 and look good, although the noise filter is a bit too obvious and detracts from the feeling, and 
 the shadows seem to be doing their own thing most of the time, but other than that things look 
 good.
  
  In the end, the game wasn't terrible, but I am hesitant to say it was a good game. It was definitely 
 designed for western audiences, but I feel that much of the core Silent Hill fandom will feel betrayed. 
 People have always compared the old Silent Hill to the films of David Lynch and Stanley Kubrick, 
 but this new one seems more similar to something done by Ridley Scott. And while it has its merits, 
 the general feeling of the game is very superficial and blatant, and loses the essence of what 
 makes Silent Hill scary. That being said, I still had fun playing parts of it, and it wasn't horrible. 
 It just wasn't good. Given three months more work and a bit more input from Team Silent, the original 
 developers of the Silent Hill series, it could have been infinitely better, but sadly it took another 
 direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss2010
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill: Homecoming is a great addition to the Silent Hill game series. The game is very immersive 
 and pulls you right into the hauntingly creepy atmosphere of Silent Hill.
  
  The game takes a lot of aspects from the older games in the series and explodes them on the screen 
 with modern graphics and digital sound.
  
  First and most important is the story line. The game progresses the story very well and it keeps 
 you on the edge of your seat as you follow Alex Shepard, a soldier returning home after a stint 
 in the military. You arrive home in Shepard's Glen to find your house abandoned except for your 
 mother who is in a catatonic state. There is no sign of your brother, Joshua or your father, Adam. 
 So this is where you set out your quest to find your missing family. The story progresses rather 
 nicely through Shepard's Glenn and Silent Hill as you search for them and as you encounter many 
 nasty monsters along the way.
  
  The monsters in Homecoming are variations of some older ones and some new ones that have never 
 been seen before. The developers have employed a battle system that encompasses dodge techniques 
 to kill the enemies you encounter. This new feature really makes the battles in this game a lot 
 of fun, other than the older style of battle system in the older games where you had to lock on 
 and strike then try to move out of the way. The monsters AI in this game is a great leap over that 
 of the monsters in the older games. The new monsters will follow you and constantly be a burden 
 if not taken out.
  
  The graphics in the game are smoother and more vibrant to the eye. The developers have given Homecoming 
 a darker feeling to the environment, which really helps with pulling you into the game. Sometimes 
 there are a few areas in the game that do seem a little dark and make it harder to see some items 
 you need to see, but fortunately they did leave the shine to important objects that need to be 
 picked up. 
  
  Also to help with the eeriness of the game you have the Dolby Digital sound. This with the darkness 
 in the game really pulls together to make one hair-raising experience. 
  
  In closing I think Silent Hill: Homecoming is a much waited for release to the Silent Hill series. 
 If you are a fan of these games you really do need to give this game a try. I know that I have 
 enjoyed playing every moment of the game that I have and I'm glad that I added to my collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JohnnyC25
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of Silent Hill and remember playing the very first one on the PlayStation 1 
 when it first came out! I was hooked ever since.
  I had high expectations of Silent Hill: Homecoming, the trailers and screen shots looked amazing! 
 
  I gotta say the first 30 minutes you play the game it sucks you in and you think 'this is going 
 to be great!'
  But then the game goes downhill, in fact after you visit your parents house and move on further 
 into the story line.
  The game just isn't scary, and a big part that has to do with it is that is too overloaded with 
 monsters, which makes it way too much combat oriented, and that's just simply not what Silent Hill 
 is. If I want a combat horror game I'll pick up Resident Evil or Doom 3. 
  On top of all that, there are hardly any health packs or ammo. I understand that the creators were 
 going to give the player the sense of 'being trapped' but if you do that make sure it is well balanced 
 out and that is certainly not the case. You may find yourself without ammo for a good hour (or 
 more) fighting melee combat, and also come to find out health packs don't really matter because 
 when you die you start over close by with 50% health anyway. So why not save up all the health 
 packs for the mini-bosses?
  Speaking of mini-bosses, they are a little on the tough side, or may be it's the flawed combat 
 system? (yes it's still not good) Too often I found myself dodging and attacking, for a long time, 
 very boring but it was a technique that worked, top that off with sometimes horrible camera angles 
 or 'being frozen' where Alex just stands there until he gets knocked to the floor.
  Another thing is that the game is waaay to easy. I hardly got stuck for more then 5 minutes throughout 
 the whole game (although I got lucky with the attic puzzle) and it's very straight forward to go 
 from point A to B, which leaves exploring Silent Hill or Shepherd's Glen out. The puzzles, there 
 are not many of them but the ones that are there are extremely easy except for a few hard ones. 
 
  And if you have a trail of monsters behind you? Why waste all your ammo or time on them if you 
 can just run to where you need to go to open the door and the monsters magically disappear. That 
 makes the game more goal oriented and not scary!
  Another thing is, and this is a very big mistake in my opinion is that the game is too much based 
 after the movie! That's just not good, the movie was based on the original Silent Hill not vice 
 versa.
  
  Overall it's still a good game, the graphics are good with great shadow effects. I also liked the 
 'duck under', 'hop over', 'squeeze though' etc options throughout the game to access different 
 areas and I thought they were also well animated and the same goes for the monsters, very well 
 animated and textured.
  Also the actions you take during the game affect the ending (there are several alternate endings) , 
 like saving your mother or not, forgiving your father or not, etc
  
  
  Like I said before it's ok/good, not great. If you are a S. H. fan you probably play it but are 
 left behind with a bitter taste.
  If you are new to the series and like a horror game with lots of combat and doesn't wanna think 
 about it, you'll like it and probably will be satisfied.
  
  Today I'm going to start a new game because I heard that once you finish it you can play again 
 with a different costume and above all the chainsaw and the laser gun at your parents house, simply 
 something I gotta try, hehe... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slinky1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  I have loved the games since the first came out. It got me hooked. Homecoming was a very good addition 
 to the franchise. The graphics were awesome, never had a glitch or blurry or missing textures. The 
 sound was exquisite, everything could be heard and was sinqued perfectly. The immersion was almost 
 complete, at points you felt as if there. But for some reason you were thrust out of it. The combat 
 system is something you have to get used to, but very different for the series. Some people don't 
 like change. I for one love it. The story was compelling, but not as convoluted as you would expect 
 from a Silent Hill game. It may turn off some fans of the series. 
  
  A few more health items spread around would have been a little more helpful especially for the 
 normal difficulty, seeming how this is the difficulty most would start with. 
  
  Long story short, the game was awesome. Add on to this title and give us something really disturbing. 
 Remember, most of us are pretty desensitized. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ice_man_1985
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  The first time i saw an impresion of SH: HC, truthfuly i wasen't impresed that much and it didn't 
 gave me the feeling of SH world and plus, i was sad when i knew it wasen't the same team that did 
 the last previews SH series, but before the game got released two months ago, the game is shaping 
 up to be good, but still no clue if it's the same SH we got used to, so at last i bought it and 
 i couldn't resist reviewing the game, so does it feel like your playing the same SH you got used 
 to ?
  yes, yes and yes in every way, it is the best SH game i ever played, the story is straightforward, 
 specially the gameplay and controls, it's solid and easy to follow, plus the devs added dialogues 
 features to choose from, of course it's not huge like mass effect, but they did a great job, so 
 the graphics is plain good, but not the best and you will ecounter some slowdowns, but the atmosphere 
 and effects is really great and scary, it will scare the hell out of you that it never did before, 
 it's the most scariest games i ever played, so let me put it that way, it's the scariest SH game 
 i ever played, believe me i played many scary games, but it's not the same as SH.
  monolith should take notes from SH devs.
  
  if you are a truly SH fan, you should buy it without 
 thinking.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linkboy77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of all of the Silent Hill games and everyone was unsure about this new game by Double 
 Helix. But after playing it I was amazed at how good of a game it actually ended up being. The 
 games new story was really good and I thought it was as good as the others. The games new combat 
 system was different from the other games, but after playing for a bit I started to enjoy it. You 
 do have to get used to dodging a lot when you are fight which takes some time. There were some 
 minor glitches when you were in combat, but nothing serious that affected the gameplay. I thought 
 all the new characters had good development and they did a good job on the voice acting. The game 
 had all new monsters (except the nurses and pyramid head which looked like the ones from the movie) 
 which were really cool and each one had a little scene when you first encounter them. The bosses 
 in the game were cool, but some of them were sorta easy to fight. They had a good verity of weapons 
 in the game and some weapons did more damage to certain monsters than others. The saving system 
 in this game was the same as the others so no issues there. There were some tough puzzles in the 
 game that require some time to figure out, but they shouldn't discourage you from playing the rest 
 of the game if you can't get them right away (from reading some reviews so people didn't like the 
 game for that reason) . The games new music was excellent of course, Akira Yamaoka did a good job 
 as usual on this games score. The game wasn't too hard or too easy either and it seemed like a 
 perfect length as well. I don't think I would call it the "best" Silent Hill game, but over all 
 I thought the game was really well done and its up there with the other games. If your a big fan 
 of the other Silent Hill games or never played one at all you should still pick this game up and 
 play it. I can't wait for what they will do for the next chapter of the Silent Hill series.
  
  (Also I thought some of the achievements for the xbox 360 version were cool because they referenced 
 the other Silent Hill games) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DieSowjet
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  From an avid silent hill fan, Silent Hill: Homecoming comes as a hometown feel reunion. Some of 
 the important elements have been revamped, such has character movement, aiming, and the lock-on 
 system. The gameplay returns to its spooky origins and doesn't disappoint. Fortunately in the hands 
 of some new developers, the cut-scences introduce the familiar feel of the silent hill ambiance 
 and isn't diluted or bogged down with cheesiness. Overall, the experience is exactly what I expected 
 it to be and I feel one of the game's greatest strengths has been staying true to its origins. 
 Great game!
  
  Since I need 100 words and I've said all that I need, the character schematics are rather interesting. 
 For example, each foe has a particular weakness associated with defeating it. If going for the 
 100pt achievement by playing the hard difficulty, don't be dismayed if you're stuck due to the 
 level of difficulty. Seek out these weaknesses, which are introduced periodically throughout the 
 game. It makes for a more satisfying experience as well as making the gameplay more manageable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobatlarge77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Just to make sure, before i bought this game i checked to see if the invert aim works, it did! 
 So i don't know why people say that it doesn't! Anyways, i'm not an invert player, but if the default 
 was invert aim, i would deal with it! Stop whineing and complaining that you can't play with that! 
 
  
  Also, users say it's way too hard. I'll admit it, it's a little hard, but not godly like diffcultly!!!
 
  
  OK, now with the good things and the bad things about silent hill: homecoming for me. First off, 
 this game is another solid, great game to the silent hill games. The story was clever, entertaining, 
 and evil! Also, all the endings were great too. (Except UFO ending, that was a little wierd and 
 stupid.) The graphics are very real, and the charcters look alive. Sound is great, nothing better 
 to hear than the sound of your shotgun blasting and hitting a wired ass monster who screams and 
 grunts.
  
  The new combat system was fine for me, i liked it, no more guessing where your shot of your gun 
 is gonna be anymore, and no more missing with an axe but a tiny bit. The camera looks on to the 
 target and stays there until you kill them.
  
  There's some camera issues in the game, i'll get the camera stuck between two things and i can't 
 see anything, not the target or me, just a big fence or whatever else that's blocking the way.
 
  
  Also, wish there was more interactivity with the game, just like slient hill 4, i don't have any 
 ideas in mind, but should have done a little more.
  
  So, overall this game is a game to pick up if you are or aren't a fan of silent hill. It's another 
 great collection to your survial-horror games. So pick it up, don't listin to the crtics or users, 
 and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartinWinthrop
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Here is what the game did for me. I love games that take you on a scary adventure. The game accomplished 
 that. The graphics were really good I thought. Especially the church in the end. It almost looked 
 real there. There were enough scares and chilling environments and great sounds to keep you interested. 
 I liked the fact that the bosses were beatable, and the save points were not too difficult to get 
 to. I was able to finish the game. 
  
  Here is where the game could have been a whole lot better. The monsters were the same through out 
 the whole game. There were about five or six different monsters plus the bosses through the whole 
 game and that was it. Another thing was not very much roaming and a whole lot of locked doors keeping 
 it very linear. Then the story. The twist with Alex really being delusional and not really what 
 he was portraying was kind of neat. The whole idea of making a pact with the devil to sacrifice 
 a kid to get him to leave you alone is soooooo worn out. One sacrifice always goes wrong and then 
 you have the problem and have to fight off the devil. Come up with a different story PLEASE. Finally, 
 there was no ending. There was the fight with the boss and then a few words and thats it. Credits. 
 Nothing to really sum up. I hate that. This game gave adventure. It does do that. The lacking stuff 
 made it 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcolira
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Evolution and Personality this is Homecoming, Double Helix have much courage, make a good and solid 
 game.
  
  Silent hill series ressurection with a very unique style, and Double Helix have competence for 
 SH6, no doubt.
  
  The story envolve, soundtrack is the one of the best in serie, Alex sherpherd is a very good char, 
 you suffer its very explicit and contagious.
  
  The combat system have issues, but i liked, very brutal fights and combos, the american touch thats 
 it!
  
  Homemcoming have a lot of Bugs, but we dont call incompetence, only poor producing investiment 
 i think...
  Konami fault!
  
  The music is so imersive and atmosfere is so creepy, the game kick ass, all chars have essence.
 
  
  Finally we have a necessary evolution in the silent hill series, i want a SH6 soon, this serie 
 need to stay alive.
  
  
  Thanks Double Helix 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tandem_Toad
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  First off, the story is absolutely amazing! Double Helix does a wonderful job in tying character 
 development, dialogue, and mystery together underneath a cool story arch. Let me just say that 
 most games rely on gameplay elements to get you through the cheesy dialogue and/or goofy story 
 arch. Silent Hill does great at both.
  
  Secondly, it's nice to finally play a horror genre game where the playable character doesn't feel 
 crippled. The controls aren't as tight as Gears of War, but they are a far cry from the handicapped 
 protagonists that usually occupy such roles in games. You actually feel like you have a fighting 
 chance, rather than the feeling that you always need to run away. My only real gripe is the exclusion 
 of inverted y-axis when not aiming a gun. Apparantly, this was on purpose. And, I can't imagine 
 why. Nevertheless, it doesn't take much to get used to it. If you don't play inverted, then you'll 
 have no problem.
  
  Also, the environments are awesome. Even the nightmare-ish episodes that are typical for Silent 
 Hill tie well back to the main environments and seem to make sense with a certain bit of allegory 
 to the main story. The graphics are good but not great. However, they are good enough not to fuss 
 about.
  
  The gameplay elements are better than any that I've seen in this genre. Having said that, it would 
 be nice to start offering more choices and story branches with today's high powered consoles. I 
 would love to explore an open world, especially one as dark as Silent Hill. So, replay value may 
 be a little low. Since, not much changes.
  
  I really don't know why the critics are so hard on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdiggs06
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  After having finished the game twice, I feel it's enough to get a decent review of the game.
  AHEM
  
  STORY - 10/10
  Alex Shephard, a gruff Nick Lachey lookalike, is heading back to his 
 quiet little hometown of Shephard's Glen, a close neighbor to Silent Hill. Once he arrives after 
 experiencing a nightmare involving his brother, his walk home is quite odd: there's no one there. 
 The buildings are closed, streets deserted, and the town is filled with an ever-present fog. After 
 a brief conversation with his ill mother, Alex starts on a quest to find out what has happened 
 to his brother, and also his little hometown. 
  Told through very nicely detailed cutscenes, expect to be pulled into the story as you are used 
 to with the previous games. The story itself may be a bit lacking compared to the other ones, but 
 it's still a story, which a lot of games lack nowadays
  
  CREATURES
  This needs to be separated as well. I did enjoy this game a lot, but from a Silent Hill standpoint, 
 things like this should've been considered. From my basic knowledge of the series, the enemies/creatures 
 in the game are supposed to represent the inner thoughts/sins of the main character or one of the 
 characters in the game. Pyramid Head for instance, was the representation of sin and personal torture 
 for James. Yet, once again, we see him here. He still represents torture, but why him? Why not 
 a different creature? This is one of the things that makes this game more of a fan service than 
 anything.
  
  
  SOUND - 10/10
  One of the best soundtracks for a game I've ever heard. Nothing quite sets the creepy mood like 
 a solo piano, and the sound effects from the weapons to the creatures are dead on. The voice acting 
 this time around is much more enthused than previous versions (Looking at you, Silent Hill 4's 
 Harry Townshend) , and everyone seems like they enjoy doing what they do. With the atmosphere, the 
 sound effects fit perfectly, which can make or break a game like this.
  
  CONTROL - 9/10
  The controls in this game are done real well (I am playing the 360 version if you were wondering) . 
 Camera is controllable and easy, which is nice and needed for a third person Action-Horror game. 
 
  
  NOTE: One reviewer completely bashed the game due to there "not being an invert camera/aim mode," 
 yet I was able to find mine by actually LOOKING IN THE MENUS. You need to stop acting childish 
 and maybe look in the game options to see that there is a way to change it, then go back and review 
 the great game you are playing
  
  Alex's movement is human, too; its harder to go backwards while running sideways, which is nice 
 to see they made everything more natural as far as movement goes. Weapon handling is simple and 
 fun, too, giving Alex a normal and a powerful attack, and giving him the ability to dodge, which 
 when used effectively, can make for some pretty one-handed fights. The only issue I ran into was 
 the menus didn't pop up right away, and when they did, they went away right away due to me pressing 
 it twice. But, its minor, so I won't dwell on it; if anything, its my controller, or my X-Box.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY - 10/10
  Here's where the game shines. Taking the traditional Silent Hill gameplay and mixing it up a bit 
 with combat. Giving the main character some combat experience actually made the game a different 
 experience from the previous versions, but still maintains the feel from the older games. It's 
 nice for once to give the main character some fighting experience, since this has been lacking 
 from the series. Not so say that the previous games' fighting mechanics were broken, they were 
 just... suiting... for the game style. 
  The weapons are easy to handle, and if used correctly, can take the enemies down in interesting 
 ways. The enemies are intriguing, and give you a good run for your money as far as surviving the 
 encounters. The sense of solitude has always been a staple in the series, and feeling outnumbered 
 and overpowered can and will happen, but this is also where your combat skills come in handy, and 
 if you effectively use whats given, these fights can be done with you leaving uninjured.
  
  PUZZLES -- I am putting this in its own section for a reason-the puzzles in this game start off real 
 easy. At one point, however, you have to move some squares around to make a picture; sorry, but 
 these are rarely entertaining, and make for a poor puzzle choice, especially TWICE, in a video 
 game. I spent an hour on it, but that was my fault for not looking at it before moving stuff around. 
 Other than that, there were two things near the end, which took a while for me to figure out, but 
 after studying everything, it finally made sense to me.
  I understand Silent Hill is to have some puzzles to solve, and I applaud that they work it in to 
 a survival horror game so well, but please, next time, leave the sliding puzzles out of it; they 
 are not entertaining in the slightest, and become a huge pain.
  
  GRAPHICS - 10/10
  Fantastic. Characters are very well detailed, and the lipsyncing is done real well in this game. 
 Alex is the best in the game; the best part is when you talk to the guy in the junkyard in my personal 
 opinion. The enemies are very well detailed and grotesque, and the cutscenes look real good. I 
 had some framerate issues with the 360, but that could've been my system... the town looks nice 
 and foggy, and the change from Shephard's Glen to Silent Hill was amazing to see and experience-everytime 
 I hear the siren in my hometown at Noon, the Silent Hill change enters my mind.
  
  OVERALL
  This game is fantastic, albeit a few minor issues with graphics, a slightly shallow 
 story, and the game being more as a fan service than anything. It was a fun playthrough (I even 
 went through twice!) , and though some things may have been done differently, it still was enjoyable, 
 and I hope to see this continue, hopefully with those issues taken into consideration.
  
  TOTAL - 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buffywan
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 4, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  ... If on the other hand you like Silent Hill, this game is a huge disappointment. I have played 
 every Silent Hill game from start to finish except for one (which I bought from eBay, it was supposedly 
 never opened but when I got it, much to my chagrin it had no box and was very badly scratched) , 
 and I assure you that if you are as big a fan of the series as I am you will find this game as 
 much of a spit in the face as origins, no... more insulting than that even. I have eagerly awaited 
 this game for years, since it was first announced that Team Silent were working on a new Silent 
 Hill project exclusively for the PS3, well long story short- too late- The piece of swill that 
 was the Silent Hill movie came out and Team Silent were dropped from the project. I still have 
 some of the original screenies somewhere... Anyways I guess Konami must have felt that the movie 
 was such a success that they should no longer bother with the traditional Silent Hill story at 
 all... And don't even get me started on the difficulty level, I know this game is supposed to be 
 Survival Horror, but c'mon I've died more in this game than I did in MP COD4 and I suck at multi-player 
 shooters, okay? anyways, to get to the point, if you love Silent Hill don't buy this game -DON'T 
 EVEN RENT IT! But then again if you love Silent Hill as much as me you will probably be compelled 
 to buy this garbage anyways... so sad... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicnoflash
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Okay.. I normally only buy a game if it scores a 9/10 or higher. 60$ is a lot of money for a game. 
 especially if its not as good as it should be. I was initially disapointed to find that Homecoming 
 got some bad marks, but I went out and bought it anyway. I am a huge fan of the series, played 
 through 2 3 and 4, read the comics, whatever, the story behind the series is amazing. This game 
 topped the others in my opinion. This is some of the most fun I've had with a game in a really 
 long time. Go buy it, have a few friends over, turn upp the volume, and play through. It was everything 
 a Silent Hill game should be, aside from a couple glitches.. (which dont and wont effect how you 
 feel about the game) It actually scared the crapp out of me and my buddies as we were playing it. 
 we were all caught screaming like little girls at specific parts. the story is 1 of the best out 
 of the series. the voice acting is real. the combat is fun, and incredible to watch when you pull 
 some of the finishing moves. If you like Silent Hill, buy it. You wont be disapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strooper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  I have already beat the game on normal and achieved the good ending. The games is Dark sometimes 
 the flash light can, t help so crank up the brightness display. The game has its frights with sudden 
 pop outs and stomach turning twists. I thought the game was a good buy and a great game to have 
 your friends to come over to play when its dark and quite. Monsters in the game are hard and some 
 come in packs of 4 or 5 so its hard to take them all. the game has a new dodge system in it to 
 roll around enemies and hit them while they are attacking. Some enemies die easier to certain weapons 
 like the pipe to the dog or the knife to the nurse and scism. Ammo is rare even in normal so get 
 good with the mellee weapons and dodging. GREAT GAME HAS SOME OF THE MOVIE IN IT AS WELL IF YOU 
 HAVENT SEEN THAT BUT TO THOSE WHO HAVE I THOUGHT IT WAS A GREAT TREAT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent321
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill: Homecoming is just as good as past Silent Hill titles if not better. It has all the 
 things a silent hill game has, the creepy settings, the bizarre creatures, and a pretty good story. 
 And also the game has better voice-acting than any of the other Silent Hills.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good but some points in the game they can look pretty weird. The locations 
 and the characters are somewhat detailed. But when it comes to the facial animations in certain 
 scenes you can't really tell whether they are in pain or feeling pleasure. The water also looks 
 something resembling saran wrap or plastic. That's not really a problem though because you won't 
 see much of it at all.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is an improvement from older silent hills. Instead of having fixed camera 
 angles in movie style, it is now put in place behind the main character in 3rd person like Gears 
 of war for example. Movement is also a slight improvement. It doesn't feel as awkward as it used 
 to. But to turn left or right is still slow. There is now an added visual health gauge to tell 
 you exactly how much health you have instead of having to guess. Combat is greatly improved. A 
 strong attack, fast attack, and a dodge button have been added to make the action interesting. 
 The game has 6 weapons: a knife, pipe, ax, pistol, shotgun, and rifle. There isn't alot of ammunition 
 for your guns so don't expect this to be like a 3rd person shooter or anything. You have to rely 
 on your skills with the melee weapons. But even though this has been added don't expect the game 
 to be easier. Later in the game you'll often face 2 or 3 monsters at a time. The game can be frustrating 
 at times because of this. Occasionally I found myself getting stuck in a corner while a nurse constantly 
 slashes at me with no way to get out. 
  
  Other: There are challenging puzzles spread out throughout the game, as you'd expect in a SH game. 
 Few are really tough. The ones that are really frustrating are at near the end of the game. I found 
 myself going to the forums to solve the toughest puzzles because the game doesn't give you clues 
 to the most challenging puzzles.
  
  I would have given this game a 10 if it weren't for the slow movement speed, tough puzzles, and 
 the cheap monsters. But overall this is a great game with a good story that you have to play.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnygspot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This time around you play as Alex sheperd. Unlike the previous heroes of the series Alex is not 
 lacking combative techniques to dispose of his voes. Die hard fans of the series might not like 
 this new adjustment but personally i think it adds just enough action to keep the game moving at 
 a nice fluid pace. At times the game can be overly difficult but still allows for different tactical 
 options for proceeding. The best single thing about Silent Hill would be the atmosphere. it has 
 a creep value that keeps things interesting even though at times the scares are predictable. The 
 story is well written and borrows alot from the movie released a couple years ago. The characters 
 are interesting but some seem to come and go a bit to fast and dont help explain the story as much 
 as they should so were not reading "old Mail." I dont know if im playing the same game as other 
 media reviews but to me if your a fan of survival horror Silent Hill is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goonieguy8
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  i had alot of hope.. but the game does not grab you and pull you in like the 2nd or 3rd in the series, 
 which were genuinely creepy and scary. The graphics are quite good and the sound is wonderful as 
 usual, but the story did not hold my interest. That and i got kinda bored going through the levels. 
 there was no tension like the older games. No creepy crap that happens and makes you say oh s***. 
 Like in SH3 when you walk into the bathroom to a seemingly empty room, when you go to walkout the 
 door locks stuff starts to come out of the sink in the mirrors reflection, the lights go out and 
 a loud shriek is heard . That was a very memorable moment for me. For SH5 instead of coming up 
 with new ways to torture our fears they kinda just took alot from the movie and made it into a 
 game with a different story line. Like really what is with all the haveing to cut through paintings 
 and stuff. Once is fine, but it makes you wonder why he cant just bust through it. i didnt know 
 how similar the movie and game where till i watched the movie again right after. So much copied: ( 
 
  
  Then there is the controls! i do like the fact that you freely look around, but GOOD LORD its a 
 chore! its like your head is the size of a tank it moves so slow.. which i guess they were trying 
 to get more tension from that? but it just makes for a really annoying time trying to look at all 
 the well done locales. 
  
  Which brings us to the battle system.. i almost miss the horrible battle systems of old! dont get 
 me wrong its not incredibly broken.. but the whole duck out of the way then smash gets really old. 
 
  
  I think this game will be a good learning experience for the team if they are allowed to develop 
 the next game in the series. It has alot of potential. It just fell flat in the most important 
 areas in my opinion. Try it for yourself of course though! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark2nice25
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  I've played pretty much every silent hill in the series, silent hill 4 i believe was the worst 
 in the series.
  For only playing more than a few hours of the new one I feel its a more evolved 1-3, same feel, 
 morbid creatures, weapons, only difference is the new combat system and aim, other than that i 
 believe it is worth buying if you are a fan of the series, if you have never played any of them, 
 rent it, see what you think and if you like it go hunt down the others besides 4 because they were 
 all worth playing all the way through.
  And for all the people that complain about every little so called mistake in the game.
  Thats 
 just the way things are, things change, crap happens all the time, no one can have something perfect. 
 And why would you, thats what makes the game unique in its own way. Nothing should always be the 
 same as how it started, then how would we has human beings learn to grow from the art that we create.
 
  Without mistakes, without glitches and messed up controls we wouldn't be able to understand how 
 to grow from that, we are all bound to make mistakes but in the end we have the choice to learn 
 from that mistake and move on. So what if you think you wasted money buying it, we all waste money 
 all the time on things we don't need or like. Just suck it up and move on.
  
  thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alluniverse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  First of all, sorry for my bad english cause im still learning.
  I wrote this review just to mediate some issues...
  
  Ill make an example:
  
  when you 
 buy a Big mac, you know it has picles, right?
  So you can tell everyone... BIG MAC HAS PICKLES!!! Cause its true, you are not lying, its a fact!! 
 BIG MAC HAS PICKLES!! its not your opinion, it has, and thats it.
  
  But please reviewers... we are not talking about McDonald's here!!! we are talking about games, 
 maybe you dont like the graphics, but this doesnt mean that the game HAS poor graphics, its your 
 opinion, only that.
  
  You guys are missing the point. You (xbox magazine, etc) wrote a review like its true, THE WORD 
 OF GOD... come on guys, its only you saying. I think that a reviewer must mediate, look for the 
 fun, stop looking for glitches, etc (like Star Wars Force Unleashed -The game is not good because 
 the AI has the 1 in 1.000.000.000.000 chance to be stuckahhhhh come on)
  
  Theres no perfect game out there, but they are made by professionals who are trying to give us 
 a few hours of fun, thats it.
  
  So, Silent hill.... its a great game (doesnt matter if it has sound= 8,8974, graphics = 7,765543, 
 thats ridiculous. The only thing thats matter is:
  
  THE GAMES IS FUN OR NOT?
  
  YES, THE GAME IS FUN, FORGET THE GLITCHES ( 1 IN 1.000.000.000.000) , FORGET THE GRAPHICS ( THE 
 TEXTURE OF ONE WALL IS A LITTLE BIT UGLY, SO I GIVE IT 1,5 FOR THE GRAPHICS, HAHAHAHAH... COME ON...)
 
  AND PLAY IT!!!
  
  the only thing i have to say that i didnt like (and because its true, like pickles) is the inverted 
 aim*, there isnt, shame....*HEY MY BIG MAC HAS NO PICKLES, WHY????????
  
  PLEASE GUYS, TRY TO USE YOUR MOUSE WITH THE OTHER HAND, AND TELL ME HOW GOOD IT IS.... CAN YOU (KONAMI) 
 PLEASE, PUT SOME PICKLES IN MY BIG MAC?.....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigas_Yuu
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  When the game starts up, one could notice the lack of a CGI quality introduction. However, in this 
 case it did not even need one.
  
  Immediately you are thrusted into your first and easy to solve puzzle, at the same time character 
 interaction has been built on with the multi-option addition. No more silly questions, that's unless 
 you decide to ask one.
  
  Correct, you can choose what to say to a character. Your responses or "ice-breakers" can be warm 
 or cold-hearted and influence the main character "Alex"'s standing in the game with other people 
 of the story.
  
  With that said, this is the best Silent Hill combat system to date. It is more in depth than that 
 of Resident Evil 4 in terms of melee, without making you seem invincible and siphoning out the 
 fear that you should be experiencing in such a game. The musical score from Akira Yamaoka does 
 an amazing job to add to the scary environment, and yes the environments are scary.
  
  There is the trademark fog, the trademark "dark-time" when everything evaporates and nothing but 
 a rusty, bloody frame remains, and even holes in walls that look like gaping wounds inside flesh 
 that try to tear your arm off (or something inside it anyway) 
  
  Music and gameplay discussed, last we are left with the graphics. 
  
  Most noticeably there 
 is a heavy lack of "shinyness" commonly found in most games such as the ones using the unreal engine. 
 Character's shirts will retain their matte textures and not glow under a flashlight like a beacon. 
 Textures are satisfactory, however on the monsters and creatures are well done. 
  
  The game also carries its own unique art style, putting over a slight filter on the camera that 
 emulates a slightly dusty and old projector. It is a very good effect indeed. If things are left 
 too clear it would almost take away from the eerieness of the film.
  
  One could make a relation to the original Night of the Living dead being scarier than the remakes 
 because of the black and white and ominous music, taking away from the litle tween horror films 
 that fill up their motion pictures with trashy poorly made metal and horrible styrofoam flesh in 
 80's colorful clothing.
  
  All in all Silent Hill Homecoming is an amazing game, and a must have for the Xbox 360! a MUST. 
 Not a maybe. Pick this game up and don't even rent it. Silent Hill is notorious for having multiple 
 endings. The replay value on this makes it a keeper.
  
  9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hustlerxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:51 am PT
Review:  A lot of the critics so far seem hell bent on picking every little thing about this game.... Already 
 were doubts due to the fact that this beloved horror game was made under an American team rather 
 than the original. 
  
  Despite all that, I must say that this is a really good game. The New combat system will appease 
 SH Veterans & Newcomers Alike. The atmosphere is dreary as its ever been, The enemies are spooky 
 and the music is superb. 
  
  Too often are people ready to jump on theIt should have been more like SH:1 or 2 bandwagon that 
 they forget to enjoy a game that was meant to be played... The way the developer envisioned it!
 
  
  So, if you are a Silent Hill fan, or just a 'Horror' fan in general, Even if you haven't played 
 any silent hill games before this. You owe it to yourself to experience the Nightmare that is Silent 
 Hill: Homecoming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emokid830
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game really draws you in. The sound is amazing. Sound effects, music, everything is creepy 
 as hell and really sets the mood for this horror classic. The combat dynamics have been retooled 
 and really make the game better in the long run, but it will seem much different at first. The 
 story is not quite as confusing as other Silent Hill games but nonetheless it is a great story 
 and the simplicity of it is for the better as your not left wondering what just happened forever 
 after you finish the game. There are multiple endings which are definately worth playing the game 
 over again for. The only slight downfall is some drops in framerate every once in awhile but its 
 nothing that really detracts from the gameplay. You can tell Double Helix really put alot into 
 this game to keep it fresh while still sticking to all the things Silent Hill does best. This game 
 will scare the crap out of you and if your a fan of survival horror games I definately reccommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentmax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Like so many others, I'm a Silent Hill fan either.
  I'd like to say that I've played the whole saga.
  Even Silent Hill 4 didn't broke my heart, even 
 receiving the lowest score for me.
  I was so frighted for this new chapter...
  But despite of the critics and everything, SILENT HILL BACK WITH SO MUCH TERROR AS BEFORE.
  The 
 graphics, which people kept complaining that it was weak, revealed itself as an awesome quality.
 
  Also, you receive a bonus motivation as you play with Alex, because he's not some random person 
 that don't know how to manage weapons... it's quite impressive the combat strategy that you have 
 to have with some enemies as you attack and dodge. You can't just play in a Rambo Mode, you know?
 
  The storyline brought me happiness, because that was what I was more concern about it. It's clean, 
 disturbed and perfect, as ever.
  The sound effects are beyond perfection. Enemies sounds, environment sounds, voice acting, everything 
 was greatly done.
  The game also have a great evil atmosphere.
  Something I notice, it's that supplies are not infinite in this game, turning it quite difficult 
 sometimes.
  I liked, though.
  I definitely will recommend for any Silent Hill player and Terror Games fans.
  
  Silent Hill 
 back.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blink182man4lfe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Alright, I'm going to start this off by saying I have not finished the game yet. However I am more 
 than half way through the game according to my pride hurting game guide. It has taken me roughly 
 about 6 hours with the strategy guide to complete about a little over half of the game. With that 
 in mind let's say for arguments sake to finish it takes me another 6 hours to complete. Thats 12 
 hours of total game play. Without the strategy guide? add probably another 3 hours total.
  I am a huge fan of the series, however the games are really difficult for me to play them. The 
 reason why is purely because they scare the crap out of me. Now I love resident evil games, but 
 have always found silent hill games to be much scarier. I own all of the Silent Hill games but 
 have only ever completed the first one. So I'm not some crazed Silent Hill fan thats going to automatically 
 give it a perfect score just because of the name on the case. I have played them all a fair way 
 through but for some reason after an hour maybe 2 of game play, I always have to shut them off 
 for awhile cause my nerves can't handle it haha. I picked up the game yesterday and started playing.
 
  Graphically the game looks great. The series has always had a nice look to it as far as character 
 models and environment models. This game is no different. I have noticed a few graphics glitches 
 when your exiting the item menus occasionally what looks like 2 bright lights will appear on the 
 ground and always makes me think an enemy appears. Nothing major but I thought I would note it. 
 The sounds/music of the game is very well done. Everything makes the sound I feel it should make 
 from the creaking gates to accidentally stumbling into a bucket. The music score is very Silent 
 Hill-esque so you really can't ask for much more out of that department.
  Camera angles have always been an issue with Silent Hill games. If you were or are a Silent Hill 
 fan in the past you will be a little let down that the artistic camera angles are gone. To appease 
 the general gaming public the substituted the angles that always showed the perfect balance so 
 it made you more frightened due largely in part by hearing your radio so you know somethings near, 
 but not being able to really see what it is. Although on the plus side to this it does make the 
 game much easier to control making it a slightly more enjoyable experience in that respect.
  Everyones probably heard or read by now that the combat has been done over. This gets it very mixed 
 reviews. Some people don't like it because it puts you much more in control so your not frantically 
 fighting for your life. Other people like it for that exact same reason. Personally I do enjoy 
 being able to power up an axe and unleash bladed fury and dodge the next attack and get them from 
 behind. Also if you do the right moves at the right times standing in the right position (easier 
 than I made it sound I swear) it triggers an execution on the monster which looks really cool.
 
  Again I'm not done with the game but so far the story is really good as well. The game handles 
 well, looks great, sounds great. The save points are a little far apart so in between so if you 
 save and are wondering if you should keep playing... ,ale sure you have a free 40 minutes, because 
 that's about how long it is between points. Most of the puzzles are in the game are easy however 
 there are some that are ridiculous how hard they are. So in that respect it lacks a little balance. 
 However the hard puzzles don't come till much later in the game. Some of the areas seem endless 
 especially in other world wear there are a million and a half ways to go but only one of them is 
 the right way. So with out the strategy guide it's a guessing game where you are almost certainly 
 wrong but hope your right. Other world looks amazing and seeing the paint peel off of everything 
 and slip into other world was an amazing touch I'm glad they added. 
  If anyone has any questions on the game or if you feel there was something missing from this review 
 please ask and I'll be glad to give you my opinion on that aspect of the game. Also If you get 
 stuck feel free to ask me for some help and I'll gladly try to steer you in the right direction. 
 Even if you just need tips on beating the bosses.
  
  *** I am aware of the coding errors such as not having inverted aim or a look sensitivity. The 
 look sensitivity is not needed and I do not know why people even brought it up considering a lot 
 of games don't have it and if my memory serves me none of the other SH titles had it. As for the 
 inverted aim. Yeah I guess it sucks for you inverted people but I user to play inverted and it 
 doesn't take that long to get use to playing it normal. On top of that again if my memory serves 
 me correctly none of the others had it. They will probably release a patch so don't worry. Take 
 a deep breath... GOOSE FRABA***
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cropentax
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Well never played the other silent hill games but after this one has to wonder hmmm. The game starts 
 you off with sort of a rude awakening and if you are one who scares easy then you might wanna leave 
 the lights on. From the never ending fresh twists and the spellbinding monsters the new silent 
 hill lives up if not fathers the series into a new level. The plot line unveils just right and 
 the characters are well played out, a few redbulls work but i have a felling you will not need 
 them. The bosses were well spaced out and the puzzles are just right. All in all Homecoming is 
 worthy and its sneaky seeing as to how not very well advertised i almost passed it by by the store 
 am glad i had a second thought. Ooh and you have to earn the achievements thats one other nice 
 about the game. Homecoming means its going home with me and am loving every minute of it, it grows 
 on you AND CHILLS THY SPINE, hahaha everyone should try it........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RussianYulia17
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  Words can't describe this game. Sure it was made by american developers and not the original developers 
 but that doesn't stop this game from being true to the silent hill franchise, i won't spoil anything 
 all i have to say is Silent Hill fans buy this game it is a good, no no it is a GREAT game maybe 
 not one of the best out of the series but it certainly is up there with the others and is safe 
 to say that Silent Hill is still alive. The game carries out the true psychological horror that 
 is well known for this game, the enemies details are absolutely great (even better than the "human" 
 characters) , controls play nice and got a pretty good reboot from the original series, in a good 
 way. I'm not reviewing this game as a fan and saying its good just because i like silent hill games, 
 no, i'm saying it because it really is safe to say that Double Helix put out an excellent effort 
 for the series and props to them! For you newcomers to the series, no worries you don't really 
 have to know from past silent hill games to understand this one, its great for the fans and the 
 newer people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Log1ck
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I'll clarify some things right now, I've only played the 1st silent hill game and I found it fun 
 and scary, that's what I like and i'm pretty sure that's what everyone on this board will like 
 as well. Unfortunately, Homecoming does not give you "as much" sense of fear as the original, granted 
 there are some moments you will be shocked and almost make you drop your controller, there are 
 times you are literally waiting for something to happen, and when it does... you are left unsatisfied. 
 The combat system has been improved alot, thank god for that, aiming is rock-on solid if you liked 
 Re4 (WTF is wrong with the ign review, aiming to precise?!) Graphically the game is either hit 
 or miss, you will get some textures that look likes something you will expect from a low budget 
 ps2 game, and some looks adaquite. Water effects are "Horrendous" and lyp-synching isn't as bad 
 as we are all told to beleive. The sounds are the high points of the game, everything sounds beautiful 
 and the music cues at the right time. Voice acting is decent, better then most SH games. In the 
 end you can consider this a "silent hill" game for people that are prone to heart attacks at every 
 BOO! or AHH! it has it's moments, but nothing that makes you unable to sleep at night. The game 
 is hard, if you play on hard, i've never played on normal so I cannot judge myself on that part. 
 So pick up this game if you are at a local blockbuster if you are new to the franchise. If you 
 are a fan to the series, what are you waiting for, buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffdddd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  okay i will start off by saying this. SH homecoming is NOT a dissapointed at all. i thought since 
 it was not made in japan and made by an american company it was gonna get completely destroyed. 
 but the ideas are all there from the previous SH games along with many new creepy moments. the 
 only reason why they say its not as scary is because your guy is not completely defenseless. he 
 can dodge, roll and counter over and over. which is much needed because i noticed that the monsters 
 are more aggresive in this game. dogs jump 10 feet to get to you and they claw or bite at you. 
 they are very very quick. the nurses were somewhat easy to kill. but they attack pretty fast, so 
 be ready to evade, counter or dodge it. along with the crawlers and those gas enemies. it can get 
 pretty challenging unless your good at videos games and are very good with timing for countering. 
 the storyline really starts to pick up when you meet a couple of townspeople and ask favors from 
 them. so u always have something forward to look to during the game. SH homecoming is meant to be 
 played in a basement with no lights on and speakers with the treble turned all the way up for that 
 shreaking eerie sound that will make your ears bleed and give you goosebumps at every corner you 
 turn. this is what i do. and the experience of SH has never been better. any silent hill fan will 
 love this game reguardless of what so called real critics are saying about it. it is truely a horrifying 
 experience. do not listen to critics. listen to the fans that know what silent hill is supposed 
 to be about. buy this game. you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j3dimindtricks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I have played through this game for about an hour or so now and I must say do not listen to the 
 critic reviews. This game keeps the same freaked out mental state from the start. The graphics 
 are unbelievable with the surroundings being just perfect. Yes i must admit that I needed to turn 
 the brightness on the game all the way up but doing this made the game NO MORE less creepy. I had 
 to save the game and turn it off after the graveyard just because I was getting chills. I think 
 you need to play this for yourself to understand what i mean when i say THIS IS CLASSIC SILENT 
 HILL. When I first started in the hospital it was difficult to see but that made the environment 
 that much more intense. Things in the environment still make you jump un-expectantly. As far as 
 him having more of a combat advantage because of him being an ex-military personnel its not true. 
 yes the dodge factor helps you out but it does not make it any more cheap because of this. I was 
 still taking heavy or semi-average damage from the dogs. Just listen to me when I say this is not 
 a disappointment at all but a step forward for sure. My hat goes off to the Double Helix staff 
 because they stayed true to the Silent Hill community and fans. Go and play this game now its awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laughlin13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  when i saw the critic review i was vary dissapointed thinking that this was going to be a dud but 
 much to my plesent suprise silint hill homecoming is evrything i have wanted in a silent hill game 
 sence the origanal when the game started with the opaning scen i was thinking what in gods name 
 is going on witch to me is a vary good way to start off things the games graphics are amazing to 
 ssy the least the enviorments suck you in as if you where there yourself the sounds of scraping 
 metal and dogs barking in the distence make you dart to look behind you but nothing is there this 
 is what silent hill is suposed to be like and with the ability to look around in First Person makes 
 the scare factor even better i have been a big fan of the SH franchise and if they keep making 
 games like this i will be for a long time if you love silent hill this is a buy if you dont and 
 are looking for a great looking game with better combat and a great story then get this you will 
 not be sorry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonehelmer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Ok, so the story so far can be a little bit predictable. I'm not going so far as to say it's boring, 
 but a lot of times, you know what's coming before it happens. That being said, I'm not sure what 
 most of the critics are talking about when I see reviews between 6.5-7.5 on average. This game 
 is Silent Hill, no doubt about it. The ability to actually fight effectively is something I've 
 wanted from this series for a long time, and it does this well without losing any of the atmosphere 
 or creepiness that has made the other Silent Hill games so enjoyable. I see no reason why this 
 game won't make fans of Silent Hill rejoice... and bring a few more fans into the mix of this creepy 
 and cursed town. This is a great game, and a great first foray into the next gen systems! If you 
 are at all skeptical, go and rent first. Fans of the other games, skip the rental and go right 
 for the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doost650
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Visually stunning, and a very good entry into the series! The soundtrack to is also amazing, i 
 can't wait for it to be released! The story is also well done, and not hard to understand, i really 
 like when you swipe with your knife how it shows on the enemies body! that's just amazing! I really 
 hope the game is well recieved. The strategy guide helps out to with the maps and everything. I 
 really like the branching dialog and the replay ability, with more then one ending and the whole 
 branching dialog thing. I personally think that any true silent hill fan would love this title! 
 Sure they used stuff from the movie, but who really cares! In the end that doesn't matter cause 
 they did the same thing with Tomb Raider Legend with Lara's house looking just like the house from 
 the movie. I Think it awesome that there are alot of stuff in the game that reference the movie! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
