-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Skate 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/xbox360/sports/skate2workingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intuitive controls for massive trick repertoire.
 Huge city to explore.
 Online co-op challenges are a lot of fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 On-foot movement is clumsy at best.
 Pedestrians get in the way and leave litter.
 AI of other skaters is questionable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 811 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Black Box
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Jan 21, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Skate 2 adds a number of new features to the Skate formula, but not all of them are winners. "-//W3C//DTD 
 HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate 2 Review for Xbox 360 - GameSpot 
                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var 
 imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Get out of jail and hit the streets of New San Vanelona in this video review for Skate 2.       
 Watch It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Intuitive controls for massive trick 
 repertoire  &nbsp;      Huge city to explore  &nbsp;      Online co-op challenges are a lot of 
 fun.                The Bad            On-foot movement is clumsy at best  &nbsp;      Pedestrians 
 get in the way and leave litter  &nbsp;      AI of other skaters is questionable.              
         After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Premium DLC 
    Posted: Feb 2, 2009 5:12 pm PT      The recently released "Filmer Pack" not only adds new replay 
 camera options and new gear to Skate 2, it also lets you upload movies that are up to five minutes 
 (as opposed to just 30 seconds) long. The asking price of 600 Microsoft points isnt crazy, 
 but this stuff seems like it should have been included in the box. &nbsp;               

  When Skate was released in 2007, it took a fresh new approach with a control scheme that made tricks 
 feel more realistic and satisfying than in any previous game. Skate 2 refines this system somewhat 
 and, impressively, adds a wealth of new features and tricks to its predecessor's already sizable 
 repertoire. Some needlessly frustrating challenges and annoying AI, as well as a couple of strange 
 design choices (physics-enabled litter, anyone?) prevent this from being the great sequel that 
 it should have been, but Skate 2 is still a lot of fun and bodes well for the future of series. 

           Take the time to explore the city and you'll inevitably find new spots to skate.      
 

  Like the first game, Skate 2 has something resembling a story in Career mode, though that story 
 takes a backseat after the first hour or two. Returning to New San Vanelona after a stint in prison, 
 you discover that the fictional city, which was largely destroyed by some kind of natural disaster 
 while you were inside, is barely recognizable from the first game. The facelift comes courtesy 
 of the Mongocorp company, an organization with a penchant for structures that incorporate quarter 
 pipes, ramps, and rails, and with a seemingly endless supply of anti-skater caps and clips (you 
 learn how to remove these early on) with which to adorn them. Mongocorp's security guards are quick 
 to deal with any skaters who stray too close to the company's private property, but the city isn't 
 anything like the police state that Skate 2's intro movie would have you believe it is.  

  Where the narrative is concerned, your goal in Skate 2 is to rebuild your career and to reclaim 
 New San Vanelona for skaters in the process. Making a name for yourself as a skater involves entering 
 races and trick competitions, going head-to-head with pros who have devised challenges for you, 
 and doing photo shoots for magazines. Skate 2 is at its best when it affords you the freedom to 
 perform whichever tricks you want to in pursuit of a high score or, as is the case in photo shoots, 
 to adhere to fairly loose guidelines. Unfortunately, there are still a number of challenges in 
 which you're told  exactly  which tricks you must perform to succeed, the most common of which 
 are games of S. K. A. T. E. against the numerous pro skaters who appear in the game. Given that none 
 of the tricks in Skate 2 require complex controls to perform, the problem isn't that performing 
 specific tricks is difficult; it's just that so many tricks are executed in very similar ways. 
 The analog-stick controls aren't precise enough for you to nail specific tricks every time, so 
 you end up having to retry these challenges not because you bailed, but because you landed the 
 wrong trick.  

  The retry button also gets some use during photo shoots when, on rare occasions, you might be told 
 that you've failed a challenge when clearly you've fulfilled all of its criteria. The opposite 
 is also true, and being told that you've passed a photo shoot when all you did was fall off of 
 the end of a ramp or skate idly past the photographer can make for some particularly mundane magazine 
 shots. It's conceivable that you'll make it through the entire game without encountering this particular 
 bug, but it happened to us on more than one occasion.  

           Skitching is a great way to get around the city if you're in a hurry.      

  Challenges 
 are scattered around the city, and you can reach them either by warping to them instantly via a 
 menu screen or by skating around the city with an annotated map to help you. The former is a useful 
 option if you're in a hurry to unlock pro skaters and licensed merchandise for use online, but 
 the latter is definitely the better way to play because you inevitably find cool spots to skate 
 as you explore, many with their own optional challenges. Being able to get off of your board means 
 that you can reach areas such as the roofs of buildings that would otherwise be inaccessible, and 
 although the on-foot controls feel clumsy, the ability to walk is nevertheless a welcome addition 
 given the prevalence of flights of steps, curbs, and the like.  

  Stepping off of your board isn't good only for exploring and for negotiating steps; it's also the 
 only way to take advantage of one of Skate 2's other new features: the ability to move objects 
 around to create your own skate spots. This feature is used only rarely in challenges, which is 
 just as well because though it's a great idea in theory, it doesn't add a lot to the game in practice. 
 Moving large objects around is surprisingly easy; you stand next to the item that you want to move, 
 hold down a shoulder button, and use the analogs to reposition and rotate it. The problem is that 
 dumpsters, ramps, and grind rails that are light enough to be pulled and pushed around by a single 
 skater are also light enough to be moved when skaters accidentally bump into them. After you take 
 the time to perfectly align ramps and other items, it's irritating that they get moved around so 
 easily. There's an option to reset them to their intended positions if you remembered to mark them, 
 but an option to simply glue them in place so they don't move at all would have been welcome.  
    "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate 2 Review for 
 Xbox 360 - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, 
 iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return true; 
 } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Bikinis 
 are Better in the Summer    //               GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm 
     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com 
                Search                               BioShock 2 Exclusive First Look:  We head back 
 to Rapture with...               Spore Galactic Adventures Q&amp; A:  Lead Producer Kip...      
          Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty Battle Report:  Its Zerg...               Mafia II 
 Impressions:  The sequel to the cult-classic 2002...                    home        PC      Xbox 
 360      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS        community      forums      videos      cheats 
      features      downloads      sports      tech      news            Reviews     Previews   
   Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top Games     All 360 Games     Xbox Compatible     Live 
 Arcade     Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create your account 
    Help    Forgot Password?                                       Add Game       Tag       Print 
       Email       Facebook       Digg                              Skate 2 Review          

 Skate 2 adds a number of new features to the Skate formula, but not all of them are winners.  
              The Good            Intuitive controls for massive trick repertoire  &nbsp;      Huge 
 city to explore  &nbsp;      Online co-op challenges are a lot of fun.                The Bad  
           On-foot movement is clumsy at best  &nbsp;      Pedestrians get in the way and leave 
 litter  &nbsp;      AI of other skaters is questionable.                      After The Fact:  
 Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Premium DLC    Posted: Feb 2, 2009 
 5:12 pm PT      The recently released "Filmer Pack" not only adds new replay camera options and 
 new gear to Skate 2, it also lets you upload movies that are up to five minutes (as opposed to 
 just 30 seconds) long. The asking price of 600 Microsoft points isnt crazy, but this stuff 
 seems like it should have been included in the box. &nbsp;               

  Skate 2 is grounded in realism, but isn't afraid to ditch it in favor of good gameplay. This is 
 great when it comes to activities such as repositioning large objects or performing insane tricks 
 while leaping from the tops of buildings. Sometimes, though, the game's realism can get in the 
 way of you having a good time. For example, having pedestrians and traffic cross a line that you 
 have to take to complete a challenge can get frustrating after repeated attempts. Furthermore, 
 when the pedestrians start dropping physics-enabled litter, things can get so bad that you have 
 to resort to picking up a quarter pipe and using it to sweep apples, bottles, and handbags out 
 of the way.  

           New tricks in your repertoire include a number of handplants.      

  Other skaters 
 can also be a problem, especially when you're taking part in a challenge that requires a number 
 of you to skate simultaneously in a relatively small space. For instance, at the start of a three-on-three 
 contest in the Career mode, there's a good chance that your two teammates will crash into one another 
 at the start of every run. AI skaters are seemingly unaware of each other's existence, and they 
 certainly don't pay any attention to what you're doing. Collisions are avoidable if you keep an 
 eye out for other skaters, but the camera is occasionally too busy showing you how good you look 
 to show you where you're headed.  

  Collisions aren't always enabled when you play online, but they're also not a huge problem anyway 
 because other players are a lot smarter than the AI guys. Online options in Skate 2 include a number 
 of different competitive modes such as races, trick events, and contests to see who can hurt themselves 
 the most when bailing. More interesting than any of those, though, are the Burnout Paradise-style 
 co-op challenges that require everyone to work together toward a common goal. Some of these challenges, 
 such as accumulating a high score within a time limit by adding all six players' scores together, 
 are quite easy because skilled players can carry anyone who's struggling. Other challenges, such 
 as having six players grind a rail simultaneously or accumulating a high score in a situation in 
 which any one of them bailing or skating too slowly resets the counter to zero, can be tough even 
 in talented company. There's plenty of fun stuff to do while playing online, and the only drawback 
 is that you're confined to relatively small areas of the city rather than given the freedom to 
 explore the whole map with your friends.  

  Skate 2's offline multiplayer offering is limited to a Party Play mode that supports up to four 
 players on a single console. The Spot Battle (trick scores) , Hall of Meat (nasty wipeout scores) , 
 and S. K. A. T. E. (copy each other's tricks) games here are all turn-based, so four of you can even 
 compete using the same controller. The lack of split-screen support might be disappointing for 
 some, but simultaneous play would undoubtedly detract from rather than enhance the included Party 
 Play games in any case. If you feel like taking a break from skating to flex your creative muscles, 
 Skate 2 has got you covered. Not only can you create custom logos and graphics for your clothing 
 and deck on the game's official Web site and instantly export them to your game, but there's also 
 a decent video-editing tool that you can use to customize replays. It's a shame that said replays 
 are limited to around 30 seconds in length, but that's plenty long enough to make some great-looking 
 shorts to share online using the included gameplay, tripod, and "follow" camera options. Additional 
 camera options and storage space for replays will purportedly be made available for download at 
 a later date, which probably explains why there are no cool filters to play around with out of 
 the box this time around.  

           The co-operative online play liberally borrows ideas from Burnout Paradise.      

 
  Skate 2 is a great-looking game. There are some low-res textures here and there, but the attention 
 to detail throughout New San Vanelona is impressive, and the skaters animate incredibly well -- at 
 least until they step off of their boards. The audio is similarly impressive, with believable sound 
 effects that seemingly take into account every conceivable wheel movement and different skating 
 surface. An eclectic soundtrack of more than 50 songs occasionally offers a welcome distraction 
 from the noises of cars honking and pedestrians yelling at you, with contributions from such bands 
 as Black Sabbath, ELO, Judas Priest, Motorhead, Public Enemy, The Clash, and Wu-Tang Clan.  

  Even if you've played a lot of Skate, there are definitely enough new features and improvements 
 in Skate 2 to make it worth a look. The presentation is slick, the controls are great, and at times 
 you really do feel like you're skateboarding. Its unfortunate that things get dragged down by 
 the occasionally frustrating and buggy challenges; that walking on foot isnt handled better; and 
 that the games physics and artificial intelligence arent consistent and sometimes get in the 
 way of the gameplay; because Skate 2 has so much to offer. Oh, and the bone-breaking bails that 
 would kill you in real life are just another way to earn money here, so Skate 2 is not only a fun 
 alternative to taking to the streets, it's a safe one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (59 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: boj0001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 9:54 pm PT
Review:  Back in March of 2008 I played the original SKATE, not expecting much, due to the boredom created 
 from all those pathetic Tony Hawk titles. So I began playing and I still didn't really see what 
 the hype and praise was all about, but a few hours into it and well, I came back time and time 
 again. San Vanelona's freedom is what makes SKATE such a great title. It felt like you were skating 
 around a real city that had precise detail within every skating object. The challenges were alright, 
 but skating around hours on end was priceless. 
  
  Now onto the sequel, SKATE 2. For a sequel, it certainly makes you feel at home with it's excellent 
 control system. The city has some familiar locations, but many areas have gone through a small 
 or dramatic makeover. The addition of 4 player standard multiplayer is awesome, and it is just 
 one of the many reasons why this ROCKS! The only main criticisms I have about it is that the EA 
 soundtrack is ordinary, with only a few good songs within the mix. And finally the character customization 
 is a little dire, compared to the first title. 
  
  Ps- This is one of the only great games this year. Im most likely going to be playing Resident 
 Evil 5, but what should I play next? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 10:43 pm PT
Review:  I thought the missions in skate 1 were boring, they are the same way in Skate 2. After i unlocked 
 everything thats when the game got fun for me, just skating around finding different places to 
 try different things on is a blast.
  
  The new things in skate 2.
  
  Walking- The controls for it seem stiff but it does what it supposed to do
  
  Foot Tricks- 
 Foot plants are awsome on some things but on walls they just dont look good. One foot grabs are 
 cool they add some nice variety to grabs.
  
  HandPlants- There nice to be able to do and there is a good amount of different ones you could 
 do (Regular and one footed)
  
  Moving Objects- Moving objects is nice, you could move somethings out of your way and even were 
 you want them to use. But to me there was not enough different objects to move around. I would 
 have prefered a Create-a-Park
  
  There are other things but those are the major ones that come to mind.
  
  Overall Skate 2 is 
 so fun to play after you unlocked everything you want. I will be playing it for many more hours 
 just skating around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gll25
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 is a great improvement over the 2007 game and bring new innovations that will keep Tony 
 Hawk's series behind for years to come. The good things were mantained, and most of the bad were 
 changed. The Flick It trick system is much better then Tony Hawk's classic button smashing, and 
 altough it's still not like in real life, its the most similar experience to skating that you'll 
 find in a game. The game graphics are the best you ever saw in a skating game and there are some 
 slight frame rate falls, but they're rare and don't hinder your fun. The game features a large 
 and beatiful New San Vanelona, but the best part is: the city is full of pure skating just waiting 
 for you, with lots of skateparks, plazas, pools... But thats not just for you! There's a huge number 
 of skaters trough the city, and they apparently follow you to every single place you go. This make 
 the places full of people causing lots of crashes and ruining your moves, a great mistake made 
 by Black Box. But the worst mistake is surely the camera. Altough sometimes it performs well, there 
 are moments that the camera will make you a blind man and you'll crash.
  Back to the good things, Blackbox made some slight improvements that help alot. The first one is 
 get a ''ride'' at the back of the cars, that helps alot and togheter with teleports take out the 
 needs of a metro, that was removed from the game. The second thing is walking, a thing that's almost 
 useless in Tony Hawk's and very needed at EA Skate, but that brought a problem: The on-foot controls 
 are bad and is hard to position your skater in the place you need, but it's surely better then 
 the complete lack of walking of the first game.
  
  Skate 2 features a hard, long, and fun career that will keep you busy for hours. And after you 
 complete it you can still ''waste'' much time exploring New San Vanelona, creating spots, playing 
 with your friends at the offline party play or playing on Xbox Live. The multiplayer is just amazing, 
 featuring Spot Battle, Game of S. K. A. T. E., Deathrace, Hall of Meat, Best Trick, Jam, and Freeskate, 
 making almost impossible to be tired from online play. The game has great sound effects and an 
 awesome licensed soundtrack, and all those good thinks combined quickly make you forget the few 
 problems. Overall, EA Black Box's Skate 2 is a great sequel and the best skating game of the current 
 console generation, if not the best of all times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_AM_AROD______
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. Some people say it's just like the first one but with a few additions, 
 I don't know about that because I never played the first one (played the demo but decided to wait 
 it out a few months until Skate 2 came out) , but I do know that this game is awesome. If you enjoyed 
 the Tony Hawk games (when they were actually good) , then this will blow you away. It's like a grown-up 
 version of those games. It's the most realistic skating game ever, you actually have to press certain 
 way and turns and line it up, and I can't even explain it, to do a trick, instead of just pressing 
 one button for grinds, one for flips, one for grabs, etc. It's almost like a skating simulator. 
 And another thing that makes it more realistic is the fact that you actually just have to keep 
 getting better instead of earning 3 skill points a level and picking what attribute it goes to. 
 The graphics are wonderful, very cool looking, the next addition of the game will probably look 
 completely real. The city is huge and has tons of sick places. One of my favorite parts of the 
 game is the soundtrack, it's amazingly eclectic but somehow it manages to go perfectly together. 
 The only ehh part of the game is the create-a-character... he/she looks goofy no matter what... but 
 cool clothes and stuff for it. I kinda wish the main character would talk just a little bit... but 
 that's not a big deal. And then only thing the (good) Tony Hawk games have over this game, is that 
 those had funny cutscenes (that was just because it had the Jackass crew on it, I'm talking of 
 course about THUG2, my ex-favorite skating game) . I just wish the Neversoft crew would just give 
 up on Tony Hawk (afterall they do have Guitar Hero now, they don't need to release any other games) 
 that way Skate could just get all of the awesome skating elements and trademarks and people and 
 culture, everything, into one game. And also I'm guessing the next big improvement will be multiple 
 (but hopefully still huge) cities. Okay, now I've gone past reviewing it, so peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laliberte11
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This is no doubt my favorite game now, The music is lacking so I just put mine on and the walking 
 controls need patching but besides that it is awesome. The best new addition is being able to control 
 your bails. my favorite spot is "the top of the E" that can give youup to 75000 bail points if 
 you do it perfectly. In this instead of the X games they Have the Etnies GvR (goofy stance vs. 
 Regular) and the San Vana Slamma which is a room with 5 megaramps which is sooooooooo much fun 
 but hard the first time. I really reccomend this to any fan of the first game, although this is 
 great nothing willl make you not want to go back to the old game. The most realistic update is 
 that the cops will chase you off their post instead of just staying at their post. the game is 
 somewhat short but you can still have fun just skating around after finding cool lines and uploading 
 them to skatereel. com especially with the new tripod camera which allows you to.. place a tripod! 
 the face editor is still lacking and the city has taken a drastic change, I, personally, reccomend 
 playing the first game before so you can go, hey! I remember this place! which is what I like to 
 do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8OrSk8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Back in late 2007, EA Black box released an original IP known as Skate. It put you in the world 
 of San Vanelona and gave you the opportunity to begin a skating career like no other. By introducing 
 the new flick-it control scheme many people found skate to be both highly enjoyable and realistic 
 and that it maintained a certain difficulty level that the Tony Hawk series had abandoned. This 
 year with Skate 2 all of the things that everybody loved about the first are back, and there is 
 much more to do and explore. The story begins by "you" getting out of jail. The time is set around 
 five years after the original and in the meantime there were several disasters in the city which 
 forced the government to re-build. An entirely new San-Vanelona filled with the "anti-skater" police 
 forces. The story itself isn't that interesting really but it doesn't really need to be since it 
 is a skateboarding game, and we all know that we do not want this one to turn into another Tony 
 Hawk flick. The gameplay however is still great and animations are greatly improved. The amount 
 of tricks were doubled and the map itself grew another district way up in the mountains where you 
 will be competing in "death races". The multiplayer stays solid and adds a bunch of new modes which 
 are quite entertaining, and can be quite enjoyable. However, Skate 2 still has a lot of problems, 
 and I mean really big ones. First and for most, the frame rate is horrible. It is better in some 
 areas, but for the most part it is quite dreadful. Some of the new animations such as the no-comply 
 look absolutely abysmal and just keep you away from actually doing them. While the falls look better 
 than the ones in the original, they seem to be too "ragdolly" to make any sense of realism. Graphics 
 stay the same, and in some cases look worse than the first which is quite irritating seeing as 
 they had the engine ready and all they had to do is polish, but what can we do uh? Lastly are: 
 the glitches. The game is filled with so many glitches that you will find yourself getting stuck, 
 angry, and quite honestly 'very very pissed off' at this game. Overall Skate 2 is a step forward 
 from Skate one but the step is so small that it seems that the step was taking by an ant rather 
 than an actual human being. If EA Black Box will continue to develop the Skate franchise and release 
 a game every year, prepare for a new Tony Hawk everyone. Beware EA, this is your warning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:09 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to improve on sequels for the next-gen consoles, one reason is because of the fact that 
 if the original was on the game console, you can't expect much improved graphics. Another reason 
 is because they all seem more like improvement from the 1st rather than actual sequels. Skate 2 
 is a prime example of this.
  
  The story for Skate 2 is plain lazy, it's basically the 1st one with different missions. You're 
 a newbie and you must reach the top by compete in competitions and appear in the famous Thrasher 
 and Skateboard magazines. But at the end of the day, who's expecting a epic story from a skateboarding 
 game? It's like wanting a football to have a story, it's just not happening.
  
  The gameplay remains more or less the same, the right analog is still the good ol' flick-a-trick 
 system, so for anyone who played much of the 1st Skate, you'll only have to learn the new tricks. 
 The map seems different all though there are a few places that Skate veterans will recognise. Of 
 course, one of the greatest 'new' abilities is to get off your board! Yes, so you can now can off 
 your board, move objects around to your liking and set up your own spot. This is a great idea and 
 add another few hours of gameplay for those who love to use their creative minds. 
  
  Skate 2 may not be the best sequel, but it's worth a purchase for anyone whos wanting a great skateboarding 
 game with lots of hours to put into and lots of tricks to master. Some fans of the previous may 
 be a little disappointed, but c'mon, it's still awesome skateboarding fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DCSKATER12
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  In Skate 2 you pick up after 5 years in prison from the last game.
  
  The story mode consists of lots of different challenges for you to complete in order to progress, 
 these challenges consist of : Magazine challenges, Film challenges, Pro challenges , HoM challenges, 
 Demo's , and more.
  
  The story is well structured but a little too short to be perfect I'll give the story mode a 9.0
 
  
  Online: Online consists of , Freeskate and freeskate activities, Throwdowns , Jams, Games of skate, 
 hall of meat , and best trick.
  
  The online experience is very addictive and well though out I'll give it an 8.9
  
  
  Graphics: 
 In Skate 2 the graphics are done very well and the animations are great, same goes for the lighting. 
 I'll give the graphics a solid 9.0
  
  
  All in all skate 2 is a great game but can get boring, I'll give it a 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hughami
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 11, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  it was extremely boring, all the animations were whack, the new city "new san van" (real creative 
 name... not) wasnt authentic and was depressingly lacking good spots unlike skate 1's city which 
 was extremely authentic and had great spots that you would search for for hours and still have 
 more to find, like skate 1 the physics are lame and unrealistic and also make the game extremely 
 unrealistic contradictory to the devs who claim the game is the most realistic skateboarding game 
 and is the closest thing to skateboarding without actually getting on the board, the story was 
 cliche and repetitive, total letdown. doesnt deserve the hype. skate 1 was alot better. hopefully 
 skate 3 will be realistic or another company will start some competition. as a skateboarder i find 
 this game to be very unrealistic and it doesnt represent skateboarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0k3d
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  The original skate was a benchmark for the genre. Tony hawks was forgotten quickly and skate took 
 the lead. It was a terrific game, although it had plenty of room for improvement which Skate 2 
 attempted to fix.
  
  First is the career and the goals. The main story is much longer which is way better. The goals 
 are more varied, which is good, but it also has varying difficulties.
  
  EA wanted to make a more difficult to challenge the gamers as well, skateboarding is a challenging 
 sport. EA did increase the difficulty, but not the best way. For people who played the original 
 and found it easy, skate 2 is fairly similar except that for making the overall difficulty of each 
 challenge harder, ... , they kept most easy and made a couple challenges very challenging and forced 
 people to use the retry button more than a few times.
  
  Second is getting off the board and moving objects. Personally, moving objects to make spots is 
 a good idea, but it doesnt really appeal to me. Being able to walk really helps, even if your person 
 runs like he was stuck in a wheelchair for 30 years and suddenly became able to run able. If you 
 really get annoyed that much by the poor running mechanics, your probably running more than you 
 should actually be skateboarding.
  
  There are also small additions into the career such as draining pools and un capping which are 
 cool. Graphics are solid.
  
  Skate 2 is better than the 7.5 GS gave it. Although the improvements over the first arent perfect, 
 they make the game better and is a solid game.
  
  St0k3d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mohmikee
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2009 1:42 pm PT
Review:  The new Skate game is actually surprisingly good. I played the first one and thought, "hey its 
 just another skateboarding game" but when skate 2 came out i gave it a chance. And I am defiantly 
 happy that I game it a chance, because overall the game is just a fun game, no matter what, any 
 mood and time. Pop in the disk and you'll have fun. In skate 2 the story mode is pretty decent, 
 good aspect but also some flaws, with you being launched off your board for no reason at all. Falling 
 off for having your board on a rail but its considered "not a trick". Online play is actually pretty 
 well made, with the aspects of Own the Spot and many other game types just make this game a solid 
 8, imo. There are some reallllyyyyy awesome aspects to this game, especially the hall of meat, 
 but when you just wanna skate and u break a challenge it might become a little bit annoying/detracting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2Rolex
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 8, 2009 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Love the game its amazing hope everyone else likes it its what every skate game should be like 
 challenging and fun worth the buy all go buy. I love it its got ton of stuff you can do or you 
 can just free skate. The security make it even more fun if you ask me give you more of a challenge. 
 Great job on the people who made it. Ton of board to pick from and clothing to wear. Bunch of sponsors 
 and tricks to do. A lot of thing to jump and grind on. Ability to move some things is great. The 
 trick guide helps you alot on what and how to do tricks. I suggest getting this game if u like 
 skateboarding. If you dont like to skateboard you will want to after playing just the demo of this 
 game. This is a great buy no waste in money here there are some bad things about the game like 
 some difficultys moving some objects but that not a big deal. I like how you can push with ethier 
 foot. In xbox live you can do a lot with it learn new trick that you might of not known about till 
 you saw someone doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnydoubt
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Skate 2 is a great game - when you buy it -
  now though, after playing it for a while, I've started to think that it is a bit boring, i mean 
 yeh, it's still fun when you unlock places, like the mega compound, it's fun to skate, but i just 
 found it boring.
  the multiplayer in this game is just like the career, skating, but there's a downside, when you 
 are on freeskate, you can only stay in the selected areas, good for = keeping scoring fair = bad 
 for = freeskateing anywhere= SO if you wanna get it, either, get it at a cheap price, or, just 
 like skating an open world. 
  THAT'S my opinion!
  
  If you've played this game , tell me what YOU think!
  
  On the map, are some places you wanna 
 reach, but cannot!
  There is also some places that you can reach, but take ages to get there.
  I mean, sometimes 
 I wish you could just teleport where eva you wanted, you can teleport, but only to pacific places 
 - NOT where you wanna go
  
  so this is my REVIEW thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Esgi7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I waited for this game ever since I first saw the teaser trailer back in summer 08, and it was 
 definately worth every second of the countdown to its release. Skate 2 is amazing. It combines 
 fluid graphics, intuitive level design, and  controls with 
 incredible physics and realistic skating to create, hands down, the greatest skateboarding game 
 ever made.
  
  To quickly sum things up, you will feel ashamed to have any Tony Hawk games in your game library 
 after taking this game for a spin. The first thing you will see when you start the game is the 
 clever intro movie, which displays all the pros featured in the game. There's a lot. A LOT. Way 
 more than Tony Hawk ever had. (Also, the video is quite humorous, something the Tony Hawk games 
 weren't quite as good at.) After this fun video of your character being released from jail, you 
 are taken to the character creation screen. 
  
  First of all, I am pleased to announce, that this time around, you can customize your character 
 anytime you feel like it just from the start menu, so you don't have to teleport to various skate 
 shops to buy clothes like you had to last time around. The create a skater feature has the ability 
 to create female skaters now, which is welcomed. It doesnt have quite as much in depth options 
 as the first Skate did, but it isn't too much of a big deal. (and check out that million dollar 
 clock necklace!)
  
  After you have your character "looking fresh", as Reda would say, you will notice the massive graphics 
 improvement over the first game as you take your first few pushes on your board. The flicket controls 
 are far more precise this time, and there are quite a few more tricks you are able to do now, including 
 inverts, footplants, hippie jumps, and fingerflips. Unfortunately, the hall of meat doesn't show 
 up after all your bone crushing crashes, (only when you complete one of the addicting hall of meat 
 challenges) but hey, this game is about skating, not crashing. 
  
  And of course, the biggest improvement of all -- walking. That's right, all you have to do is hit 
 Y or Triangle, depending on your system, to hop off your board and hoof it. The walking controls 
 arent anywhere near as precise as the board controls are, but they get the job done. (besides, 
 they dont really need to be too precise anyway. This isn't a platforming game.) Not only can you 
 walk around, but now you can also move objects around, in true creative-skater fasion. You can 
 even save spots you have tweaked and upload them to the internet for others to play.
  
  New San Van looks georgious. From the top of Cougar mountain, you can easily see the whole city, 
 and the sense of distance is impressive. The city doesnt feel quite as large this time around, 
 but that's mostly because a large portion of the city is the new Cougar Mountain. However, the 
 city still delivers with its spots, with terrain for all skaters. The waterfront is perfect for 
 freestyle skaters, with plentiful ledges and stair sections. The downtown area near mongocorp is 
 great for super-tech tricks, with rails and stairs galore. The rez is good for transition skating 
 and rigging, with its plentiful objects and large bank drops. And finally, the Cougar Mountain 
 is a speed demon's paradise, with a reworked spillway section that will have you at the edge of 
 your seat, along with the S. V. dam, which is absolutely insane once you unlock it. The game's physics 
 are absolutely perfect, and they allow for super-realistic skating when desired, but also bigger 
 and impossible-looking gaps at the same time.
  
  All in all, Skate 2 is a superb game that destroys not only its prequel, but also any other skating 
 game on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frogcrazyant1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  When Skate 1 came out, i was obsessed with it and probaly played it for 4 months straight and didnt 
 play another game. all the tricks seemed right and new and innovative, and the flickit system seemed 
 like it couldnt be better. When skate 2 came out, I was like wow, they did improve the flickit 
 system. though this may be me ( I am a skateboarder ) , i do not like the old school moves. Before 
 skate 2 came out, they said they were doubling the trick bag. All they did was give crappy old 
 school moves, and i wasnt happy with that. They easily could have done NightMare Flips or Hospital 
 Flips or 720 flips or even tricks that are more realistic than that, so i was dissapointed by that 
 but that was alright with me because they made the flick it system more easier to use. Well that 
 was the only thing i was dissapointed, but here are the pros and cons.
  
  Pros-
  *Skate 2 is OUT!
  *New challenges!
  *New Achievements!
  *Easier Flick It System
  *New Tricks
 
  *Skitching
  *More customizeation
  *More clothes
  *Better Skate Reel
  *New characters (REDA!)
  *With Online, the Online is better, new modes are there, and less lagier
 
  *With Online you can buy Rob Dyrdreks Fantasy Factory with another 250 Achievements Points!
  *Freeskate Challenges Online which is extremely fun for some odd reason
  
  Cons-
  *OMG GLITCHES 
 ARE WACKKK in this game
  *Old School Tricks (not cool)
  *Atiba Jefferson
  
  Achievements-
  I got all the achievements (1000) in the first game, and am close to now in 2 
 currently (905) + Robs Fantasy Factory (100) so yea, most of the achievements come while you beat 
 Skatemag and Thrasher and for those who are having problems with Thrashers not coming up just find 
 3 pools, then you can do Thrasher. yea achievements really fun
  
  If you are a skater, this is obvious
  If you arent, still pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearsofwar1221
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  EA Blackbox took advantage of a downbeat genre to release 'Skate' back in 2007; a critical darling 
 which dumped arcade high-scoring gameplay for a more realistic trick-centric approach. Though the 
 first game received oodles of praise for its innovative design, it wasn't without some obvious 
 flaws and Skate 2 does its best to eradicate most of them.
  
  Story wise, Skate 2 continues a few years after the conclusion of the first game, 5 years to be 
 exact, all passed away incarcerated in San Van prison. Upon your release your introduced to New 
 San Vanelona; a similar but different urban sprawl built upon the ruins of the earthquake-ravaged 
 former skatetopia.
  
  The benefactors of this new city, MongoCorp, have made provisions to stop skaters from taking over 
 New-San-Vanelona. Security Guards are more plentiful, grind-stoppers have been bolted onto rails 
 and ledges and worst of all, most of New San-Vanelona's pools are full of some nasty blue teleport 
 liquid. So the premise is basically Saints Row 2 with skateboards in place of casual racism.
  
  Like this review, the game introduces the story early on and never really touches on it in 
 any meaningful way during the course of the game. So onto the important question, how does the 
 game actually play? The good news is, Skate 2 is a pretty excellent sequel. 
  
  First of all New San Vanelona is simply the best skateboarding world we've ever played. Every area 
 of the metropolis is littered with spots, gaps, rails and parks. Though the city still rests on 
 a sharp decline, the hills are positioned further apart to induce you to explore more. Its larger 
 too, with loads of hidden parks, alternative routes and dynamic areas which change as you progress 
 through the story. As your notoriety in the skate world increases you unlock a number of contacts 
 including some girl who drains pools, a guy who prises off grind-stoppers, and the number one In 
 skateboard security; Mr Big Black himself (oh wait, there's the casual racism) .
  
  Pacing has drastically improved also. Skate 2 embraces its open-world core by allowing much more 
 variety in the sequence you approach the games challenges. Better still the variety and sheer amount 
 of challenges on offer has been wildly improved too. These include street and vert competitions, 
 downhill races, video and photo opportunities & location challenges, most of which are extremely 
 clever in their execution. There really is a loads to do in Skate 2.
  
  The repertoire of tricks on offer has opened up too. Skate 2 expands on the flip and grab trick-set 
 with a selection of plants, tweaks and lips while the D-pad exclusively manages a selection of 
 taunts & emotes. There's still so sign of complex flatland tricks or dark-slides, but then again 
 I'm sure this wont be the last in the series. Besides, you'll spend most of your time attempting 
 to hippy jump benches and cars.
  
  The essential session marker from 'Skate' makes a welcomed return, allowing you to transport your 
 skater back to a preset marker to attempt, and re-attempt gaps quickly. The issue in the first 
 game was the area in which you could teleport back without incurring the wrath of the load screen. 
 Thankfully the streaming world has been tweaked to allow much greater distances to be skated and 
 transported back to instantly.
  
  One unforgiving gripe many had with the first game was the inability to step off your skateboard. 
 In Skate 2, a simple button press and voila, your walkingDaddy's so proud. Unfortunately you walk 
 like a 1920's robot who can't turn unless standing completely still or sprinting at terminal velocity. 
 The mechanic works fine when you're moving pieces of the game world around, which incidentally 
 is one of the best new additions to the game, but is otherwise useless unless your stuck at the 
 bottom of a stair set. Another new way of getting around is by sketching on the back of one of 
 the any hundreds of cars meandering the streets of San Vanelona. Pulling away from the car can 
 whip you across areas at high-speed for awesome high-speed trickery or awesome high-speed collisions.
 
  
  That's right, when you bail in Skate 2, you really bail. Most gameplay sessions involve a number 
 of impressive tricks spaced in between YouTube type bone Ownage. The games 'Hall of Meat' feature 
 makes sure you know just how much damage you're doing, but it pales in comparison to how the engine 
 makes every fall, snap and crunch almost too hard to watch. Skate 3: Limb dismemberment  you heard 
 it here first.
  
  Graphically Skate 2 has changed quite a bit also. The de-saturated look of the original has been 
 dumped for an expanded colour palette. Texture resolution is sharper; the framerate can be glorious 
 at times and the effects such as lens-flare and speed blur are fantastic to watch. In the same 
 respect not enough can be said about the audio design. Wheels rumble, scrape and pop depending 
 on the surface you're moving across, wind rages pasts at high speed and ambient effects such as 
 chatter, birds and cars give the city a tangible depth. The soundtrack is another skater-friendly 
 playlist which stays clear of chart toppers in favour of hip-hop, soul and rock classics. It may 
 not be as memorable as many other skateboard game soundtracks, but the music is perfectly serviceable.
 
  
  Off the board Skate's replay editor makes a welcome return even if its scaled back to force editing 
 fans to buy a DLC pack. As ever you can upload your favourites to your EA account with mixed results. 
 'Create a Spot' allows you to create your own score-area with its very own online leader board. 
 Friends and strangers alike can download these spots and compete to beat your score. As it's totally 
 based on community input, only time will tell if this feature picks up.
  
  Online, the game takes more than one trick from Burnout Paradise. Freeskate activities are suggested 
 and voted on by the gamers in the lobby, many are competitive such as 'best trick' contests, while 
 co-op activities add flavour to proceedings. If this style of online is your cup of tea, there 
 are hours of activities here that will help you burn away that midnight oil.
  
  Fans of the first game will eat up Skate 2. It's a safe but refined sequel that looses the chaff 
 of the first game and expands on what made it great. If you're on the fence or unfamiliar with 
 the series, a quick playtest of the Xbox Live or PSN demo will be enough to turn you on or off. 
 What's sure is Skate 2 is so packed with features and stuff to do that it's hard not to like it. 
 EA Blackbox have delivered a polished, feature-packed experience that is not only the king of skateboarding 
 games, but still the benchmark for innovation in any tired genre 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieTerror028
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fantastic sequel to skate as Im sure most other people think so, we all know how 
 much better it is to be able to get off your board to go up stairs then having to skate half way 
 around a building to find a way up, and the physics are so very realistic it will make you feel 
 like you are watching a real skate boarding video most of the time, and it my opinion that makes 
 the game more fun, because if you think back to the days when the tony hawk franchise was really 
 popular it does seem a little ridiculous that you could grind on power lines, skate just fine on 
 grass, ollie like 30 feet, and every time you wanted to jump a stair set it took more work to clear 
 it with realism than it did to land about 50 feet away from the bottom.
  In my opinion because of these great physics it makes the game pretty addicting a really fun trying 
 to just do some cool technical tricks and actually trying hard to clear stair sets. BUT! not all 
 of the game is as great as the physics system and the nice look, first of all getting off your 
 board... its rather annoying, because you walk like your drunk, and you move pretty slow, also 
 sometimes the flick-it system doesn't seem to work as well as you would like it too, i find that 
 time and time again (especially when playing a game of S. K. A. T. E.) it is rather difficult to do 
 the exact trick you would like or to repeat a trick numerous times because if you make one wrong 
 move it will register as something other than what you want. But gladly you don't have to deal 
 with that too often, and all you really have to do is just get used to the control and you will 
 be fine. The last thing i have to say ( this is the reason i gave it 8.5 instead of 9) is that 
 this game lags... quite often i find that i will be in the middle of a challenge and i will go 
 to do a trick and i will just appear a foot away on the ground, and some times it does it over 
 and over again in the same spot, also sometimes when i go up a quarter or half pipe i will get 
 to the top then it will lag and i just come right back down quickly... but this does not happen 
 that often, and I am playing it quite a bit right now so it may not happen to you as much. The 
 only other problem I have is the skater AI and the pedestrians... they get in the way. Other than 
 those things though I think this a great, very realistic skateboarding game, and it is lots of 
 fun so don't hesitate on getting it. oh and I forgot , the multiplayer is pretty fun too because 
 you can do challenges such a hall of meat and point accumulation, and even best trick, but don't 
 get too frustrated because a lot of the people on there are veterans of the franchise, and this 
 game takes a bit of practice to get real good at it, as did the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyodwyer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  EA Blackbox took advantage of a downbeat genre to release 'Skate' back in 2007; a critical darling 
 which dumped arcade high-scoring gameplay for a more realistic trick-centric approach. Though the 
 first game received oodles of praise for its innovative design, it wasn't without some obvious 
 flaws and Skate 2 does its best to eradicate most of them.
  
  Story wise, Skate 2 continues a few years after the conclusion of the first game, 5 years to be 
 exact, all passed away incarcerated in San Van prison. Upon your release your introduced to New 
 San Vanelona; a similar but different urban sprawl built upon the ruins of the earthquake-ravaged 
 former skatetopia.
  
  The benefactors of this new city, MongoCorp, have made provisions to stop skaters from taking over 
 New-San-Vanelona. Security Guards are more plentiful, grind-stoppers have been bolted onto rails 
 and ledges and worst of all, most of New San-Vanelona's pools are full of some nasty blue teleport 
 liquid. So the premise is basically Saints Row 2 with skateboards in place of casual racism.
  
  Like this review, the game introduces the story early on and never really touches on it in 
 any meaningful way during the course of the game. So onto the important question, how does the 
 game actually play? The good news is, Skate 2 is a pretty excellent sequel. 
  
  First of all New San Vanelona is simply the best skateboarding world we've ever played. Every area 
 of the metropolis is littered with spots, gaps, rails and parks. Though the city still rests on 
 a sharp decline, the hills are positioned further apart to induce you to explore more. Its larger 
 too, with loads of hidden parks, alternative routes and dynamic areas which change as you progress 
 through the story. As your notoriety in the skate world increases you unlock a number of contacts 
 including some girl who drains pools, a guy who prises off grind-stoppers, and the number one In 
 skateboard security; Mr Big Black himself (oh wait, there's the casual racism) .
  
  Pacing has drastically improved also. Skate 2 embraces its open-world core by allowing much more 
 variety in the sequence you approach the games challenges. Better still the variety and sheer amount 
 of challenges on offer has been wildly improved too. These include street and vert competitions, 
 downhill races, video and photo opportunities & location challenges, most of which are extremely 
 clever in their execution. There really is a loads to do in Skate 2.
  
  The repertoire of tricks on offer has opened up too. Skate 2 expands on the flip and grab trick-set 
 with a selection of plants, tweaks and lips while the D-pad exclusively manages a selection of 
 taunts & emotes. There's still so sign of complex flatland tricks or dark-slides, but then again 
 I'm sure this wont be the last in the series. Besides, you'll spend most of your time attempting 
 to hippy jump benches and cars.
  
  The essential session marker from 'Skate' makes a welcomed return, allowing you to transport your 
 skater back to a preset marker to attempt, and re-attempt gaps quickly. The issue in the first 
 game was the area in which you could teleport back without incurring the wrath of the load screen. 
 Thankfully the streaming world has been tweaked to allow much greater distances to be skated and 
 transported back to instantly.
  
  One unforgiving gripe many had with the first game was the inability to step off your skateboard. 
 In Skate 2, a simple button press and voila, your walkingDaddy's so proud. Unfortunately you walk 
 like a 1920's robot who can't turn unless standing completely still or sprinting at terminal velocity. 
 The mechanic works fine when you're moving pieces of the game world around, which incidentally 
 is one of the best new additions to the game, but is otherwise useless unless your stuck at the 
 bottom of a stair set. Another new way of getting around is by sketching on the back of one of 
 the any hundreds of cars meandering the streets of San Vanelona. Pulling away from the car can 
 whip you across areas at high-speed for awesome high-speed trickery or awesome high-speed collisions.
 
  
  That's right, when you bail in Skate 2, you really bail. Most gameplay sessions involve a number 
 of impressive tricks spaced in between YouTube type bone Ownage. The games 'Hall of Meat' feature 
 makes sure you know just how much damage you're doing, but it pales in comparison to how the engine 
 makes every fall, snap and crunch almost too hard to watch. Skate 3: Limb dismemberment  you heard 
 it here first.
  
  Graphically Skate 2 has changed quite a bit also. The de-saturated look of the original has been 
 dumped for an expanded colour palette. Texture resolution is sharper; the framerate can be glorious 
 at times and the effects such as lens-flare and speed blur are fantastic to watch. In the same 
 respect not enough can be said about the audio design. Wheels rumble, scrape and pop depending 
 on the surface you're moving across, wind rages pasts at high speed and ambient effects such as 
 chatter, birds and cars give the city a tangible depth. The soundtrack is another skater-friendly 
 playlist which stays clear of chart toppers in favour of hip-hop, soul and rock classics. It may 
 not be as memorable as many other skateboard game soundtracks, but the music is perfectly serviceable.
 
  
  Off the board Skate's replay editor makes a welcome return even if its scaled back to force editing 
 fans to buy a DLC pack. As ever you can upload your favourites to your EA account with mixed results. 
 'Create a Spot' allows you to create your own score-area with its very own online leader board. 
 Friends and strangers alike can download these spots and compete to beat your score. As it's totally 
 based on community input, only time will tell if this feature picks up.
  
  Online, the game takes more than one trick from Burnout Paradise. Freeskate activities are suggested 
 and voted on by the gamers in the lobby, many are competitive such as 'best trick' contests, while 
 co-op activities add flavour to proceedings. If this style of online is your cup of tea, there 
 are hours of activities here that will help you burn away that midnight oil.
  
  Fans of the first game will eat up Skate 2. It's a safe but refined sequel that looses the chaff 
 of the first game and expands on what made it great. If you're on the fence or unfamiliar with 
 the series, a quick playtest of the Xbox Live or PSN demo will be enough to turn you on or off. 
 What's sure is Skate 2 is so packed with features and stuff to do that it's hard not to like it. 
 EA Blackbox have delivered a polished, feature-packed experience that is not only the king of skateboarding 
 games, but still the benchmark for innovation in any tired genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepitko
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:34 am PT
Review:  Make no mistake, as an ex-skater I loved going from Tony Hawk's series to the original Skate and 
 picked up a copy of Skate 2 on the launch date. But I don't like Skate 2 as much as I liked Skate 
 1, Skate 2 is a solid game, but it disappoints on too many levels. PATCH NEEDED!
  
  What's good?
  Everything Skate 2 inherited from its predecessor: the controls, the large and 
 interesting environments, trick animations and types of challenges. Being able to get off the board 
 and being able to move stuff around to make better trick lines. In addition, when you finish a 
 challenge, the game smartly shows you highlights from the best tricks.
  
  What's bad?
  Getting of the board - feels clumsy and unfinished, at best. Why doesn't the skater move backwards 
 is beyond me, why does he weirdly slow down every time you want him to climb a flight of stairs. 
 And getting off the board itself is done in a clunky long animation, the whole thing needs to be 
 snappier and better responsive.
  
  Graphics - the game looks very good, but it seems again half-arsed. There are clipping issues, 
 see through edges of buildings but worst of all the horrid frame-rate. I'd rather go for worse 
 graphics with a solid framerate, if you ask me.
  
  AI - pedestrians are stupid at best and there's too many of them (this might be the cause for slow 
 framerate) . Other skaters - don't seem to be aware of the world around them, worst of all, in some 
 challenges, they will have no problems crashing into you (when the game makes you skate side-by-side) , 
 making you to repeat the challenge.
  
  Repeating challenges - Fine, they got rid of the dreadful loading times, but still, bail = challenge 
 failed. Why does the game have to ask if I want to repeat, ask again to confirm I want to repeat 
 and make me wait 3-2-1 to start the challenge again. Why can't I just go back to my session marker 
 without restarting the bloody thing again.
  
  
  Overall, Skate 2 is a good game, but not a great one. I wish there's going to be a patch to sort 
 this out, but EA being a large financial corporation rather than a gaming studio full of enthusiasts, 
 we might see even Skate 3 repeating the same mistakes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forte22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:08 am PT
Review:  Skate 2 fixed a lot of problems that Skate had with the landing glitch and the multiplier in spot 
 battle. They really worked on the graphics and they add new tricks like hand-plants, foot-plants, 
 finger flips and grind grabs. One of the biggest new features of Skate 2 is being able to move 
 objects around and making anywhere able to skate. The only thing I didn't like was that they used 
 the same area, but only i slight issue to me because of all the new spots added into the game. 
 O and almost forgot being able to get off your board, allowing you to go up stairs and not around 
 them to get to the top of them. I love the online graphic creature which allows you to make a design 
 at ea and upload it to your x-box and can wear it on hats, shirts and can be your design on your 
 skateboard. I feel that the Skate. game franchise has made a huge change in skating games and in 
 other games in utilizing the analog sticks effect in the games then just moving, aiming, selecting, 
 or looking around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wezleee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  New San Vanelona
  After the major disaster, and years of mysterious absence, Skate's legendary skateboarding mecca 
 returnsbut things have changed big time.
  
  The Skate revolution continues. Flickit is back and ups the ante with Skate 2 by doubling your 
 bag of tricks and delivering all the grit, creativity, and culture of skateboarding. Jump back 
 on the sticks and skate it your way on or off the board by pulling off classic OG Skate moves or 
 all-new tricks like one foots, handplants, hippy jumps, and more.
  
  Skate it your way and live the dream with multiple path progression. Make a name for yourself by 
 owning spots, dominating challenges, and grabbing footage to earn your spot with magazine covers 
 and real world sponsors. 
  
  Make San Vanelona your playground; the ultimate skate mecca where you make the rules. Ride with 
 pros, mess with security guards, discover skate shops, and own the spots to make them yours. 
 
  
  The days of button mashing dial-a-trick are over. The intuitive Flickit dual analog control lets 
 you perform skill-based trick executions that capture the real-world feel and true attitude of 
 skating. 
  
  Pattern Recognition.
  
  Flickit recognizes patterns, timing and speed variations so every player experiences a performance 
 that matches how they play the game, creating a style all their own. 
  
  Analog is your friend.
  
  The main flickit controls revolve around the two analog sticks: left 
 controls the body and direction of the skater; right controls the skateboard. A multitude of tricks 
 are at your fingertips. 
  
  Smile for the camera.
  
  All your moves are caught on film by your personal cinematographer as raw footage for your very 
 own skate video. Reality and physics are in your hands. 
  
  famous residents: Some well-known skaters and their San Van haunts include John Rattray destroying 
 subruban pools, Danny Way hucking at his Mega-compound, Mike Carroll filming lines at Oliver Elementary, 
 Jason Dill working out the kinks at his Old Town manny pad, and Ali Boulala flinging himself off 
 bridges near Slappy's Skateshop.
  
  Graphics Creator
  This all-new tool will give you the freedom to create your own custom graphic for your in-game 
 hats, decks and shirts.
  
  Profiles
  Get to know all the latest Pro Skaters who you'll run tino in Skate, Skate It, and Skate 2
  
 
  Skate. reel is back and better than ever. Take photos and create custom footage on your console 
 as you skate around the New San Vanelona. Upload your photos and footage to skate. reel so you can 
 share with all your friends and the rest of the skate community. As always, without footage - it's 
 fiction.
  How you do it: 
  1. Create your video using skate's replay editor, you can create photos and edit footage for uploading 
 to skate. Reel. The replay editor is available at any point during gameplay from skate's in-game 
 pause menu.
  2. Save your photos and videos skate. Reel allows you to share 10 photos and up to 90 seconds of 
 video clips per Gamertag or PS3 Online ID with the skate community on the web. You can upload as 
 many clips as you'd like, so long as they don't total more than 90 seconds. You can keep creating 
 and saving new videos and photos but they will overwrite the older ones. 
  3. Go to www. skatereel. ea. com and log on to your EA account and select either your Xbox Gamertag 
 or PS3 Online ID persona Click the "Profile" link to access the videos and photos you have saved 
 to skate. Reel.
  4. Select your video or photo and tag, comment as desired.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DHH34
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  Here's the deal:
  
  Skate 2 gives you a feel that is makes you think, "Wow, this is better than the original." Somehow, 
 this feel was added without changing much. Hopefully, if you played Tony Hawk, you got into the 
 controls and camera of this series in the first Skate. If not, you're going to be annoyed... deal 
 with it.
  
  The Hall of Meat is very enjoyable with all sorts of challenges. However, like the pro challenges 
 of the game, you'll find that some are not do-able AT ALL. Skate 2 was pretty easy for me until 
 I got to challenges like BLAOW!, Luca's Translation, Can You Spell Girl?, and The Streets Are Calling. 
 The funny thing is that it's literally impossible to do half of the challenges I mentioned above. 
 Playing S. K. A. T. E. is absolutely stupid because pros will never screw up your trick, and the anolog 
 stick is not very accurate. That's what makes doing a 360 flip in The Streets Are Calling annoying 
 as a bagoo!
  
  Don't worry though. Skate 2 will reach impossibility when you're pretty much done the game anyway, 
 not there's a real ending that I know of because the first one didn't seem to have one. Although, 
 I didn't 100% that game either, so who knows? Bails are now fun as, well, doing actual challenges 
 to a certain extent. This review has been somewhat negative, I realize. Well, that is not to discourage. 
 I rated it a 9.0 because if you played the first one, it's pretty self-explanatory that's it's 
 going to be all that with a little extra. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_j_skin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Hands together for EA. This would not have been an easy game to release while keeping it fresh 
 and exciting. Considering Skate 1 had nearly every trick in the book and revolutionized the trick 
 system with use of the analog stick, EA have managed to pull off Skate 2, somehow finding new ways 
 to improve this great game.
  
  The trick system is still the same which i am very happy about, and the introduction of Hippy Jumps, 
 a new Hall of Meat menu and a heap of new finger flip tricks and handplants is great.
  Set in New San Vanelona, there are many more high rise buildings now, and the city isn't as.. i 
 guess you would say old school as it was in Skate.1 It is definitely much more of a city now, but 
 the skaters have managed to find a way to create amazing spots out of nothing! 
  The introduction of the ability to use your cell phone to call up various friends to un-cap rails, 
 drain pools and distract security guards is such a great idea!
  
  These features are extremely realistic as what it used to be like skating downtown 10 or so years 
 ago. Being able to find a pool in a deserted backyard, drain it, then skate it has been interpreted 
 perfectly by EA. I know this because i myself are a skater, and playing this game really feels 
 like it would in the real world.
  
  The multi player feature in Skate 2 has been cleverly updated with a slightly new ranking system 
 and a few new game modes, such as my favorite: Hall of Meat. The new ability to jump off your board 
 after ollie-ing off a skyscraper to cause as many broken bones as possible results in hours of 
 hilarious gameplay online, not just a serious career mode.
  
  
  Well Done EA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0oSaucinatoro0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2. is a really good game, i like the analog stick configuration and the parks are really 
 nice but there is only one problem ; it gets boring as hell after a while. I would rent this game 
 first and just play it for a week and a bit first before you think of buying it. MICHEAL JACKSON 
 MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON 
 MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON 
 MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON 
 MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON 
 MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON v MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON 
 MICHEAL JACKSON v MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON MICHEAL JACKSON v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevComesRipping
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  When you first look at a game like Skate 2, the thing that immediately jumps out at you is the 
 number 2, being the second in a series, what does it do to differentiate it from it's predecessor? 
 In this case, a lot. Take Skate, a very successful skateboarding sim to finally dethrown Tony Hawk, 
 it was glitchy, and had a few glaring holes, but the gameplay was so smooth and good looking that 
 those were easily forgotten. Skate 2 brings back that smooth gameplay, with a little more visual 
 flare (frame rate has been bumped up so flip tricks look especially good) A lot more options, (You 
 can wear your hat in a different way than just straight forward!) and tons (yes, tons) of new customization 
 options. Starting with the customization options, simple things like being able to switch the color 
 of a custom hat or shirt was a giant leap forward, let alone a full website dedicated to making 
 your very own graphics to put on your hats, shirts, and skateboards, as well as share with others.
 
  Along with the new customization comes a truckload of new tricks, including one foot grabs, inverts, 
 no complys, boneless', footplants, and aerial 'hippie hops'. All of which are realistic and welcome 
 additions. As far as additions go, you can now get off your board, which is a bit clunky, but you 
 won't be using it for much other than getting to the top of a set of stairs, or to use the new 
 movement option, where you can grab hold of small ramps and rails to place them wherever you please, 
 you can set them to your session marker to keep them there and reuse them for some sweet trick 
 lines. Speaking of trick lines, the new skate. reel is bigger and better with a new tripod and free 
 roaming follow cam, and is made even better with the filmer pack, by adding a fully free motion 
 cam and advanced versions of the previously mentioned cameras. All of which you can use to make 
 and post videos to the ingame skate. reel and on to the skate. ea website for others to see and rate.
 
  Along with all of these new big upgrades is a bunch of new online modes to choose from, theres 
 6 standard competition based modes to choose from, Spot Battle, which consists of players competing 
 for the best trick or session score at a specific spot. Best Trick, where players try for the biggest 
 single trick score in a set area. Jam, where players try for the highest score in a timed match 
 under different guidelines (i. e. Air tricks only, Grind sequences)
  S. K. A. T. E. a game of HORSE with flip tricks instead of basketball shots, 
  Death Race, which 
 really shouldn't need an explanation, it's a race. And lastly, Hall of Meat, a new system to the 
 Skate series which has players competing for the highest score for hurting themselves "With Style" 
 
  If you're not feeling competitive theirs also a new online freeskate mode, where you can pick different 
 objectives for your room (either friend invite, or random online respectively) to try and complete 
 objectives for cash, or just for fun. 
  As a whole Skate 2 is greatly improved with much less glitches, a lot more to do, and a much better 
 sound track than the original Skate. It's a must buy if you're even remotely interested in skateboarding 
 and the replayibility is off the charts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HHH2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 6:39 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered Skate 2 one month before it came out, and got the shirts. When that day came where 
 it came out. I was not disappointed at all. Being a skateboarder myself i love the realistic game 
 play, and the "flick-it"control. I use to play Tony Hawk games all the time, and use to love them, 
 but after underground 2 it just got lame, and repetitive. See i have nothing against Tony Hawk 
 games, but it isn't real at all. In real life you cant jump from a 20 story building and live. 
 That is why i love skate 2 cause when you fall from a high height your chance of landing goes down. 
 EA did a great job on this game, and should be very happy of the results. 
  
  The online in the game is amazing. I love the fact that i go online and skate with my friends without 
 having to kick there butts in a game of skate. The only thing i have an issue with in the online 
 is when someone joins or leaves the game freezes a bit, but otherwise it is a great online experience. 
 
  
  I love the hall of meat challenges. i never knew hurting you skate had such great stress release. 
 Online hall of meat is funny cause everyone trys to do better than each other, but no one really 
 cares who wins cause it is just funny to watch.
  
  Overall Skate 2 is an amazing sequel that deserves more credit than gamespot give it, but i guess 
 everyone has their opinions. I recommend this game to anyone who is sick of Tony Hawk games, and 
 wants the BEST skating game around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capcom49
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I bought this only on a whim from Target so I could play something before Star Ocean 4 and Resident 
 Evil 5. I never played any of the Skate games so I figured right off the bat it was a Tony Hawk 
 kinda game. 
  
  1st mistake, going with the assumption that all skateboarding games are the same. I felt that it 
 really didn't give you a free feel or make it feel borderline crazy. Now the game is focused on 
 making it realistic and for me thats not fun. If i wanted to go skateboard with real limits I'll 
 go pop my old board out and do so. But again I must say I'm basing this on other skate games.
 
  
  The soundtrack is rather good and its one of those games I must say has a impressive camera for 
 the quickness and angles. It has many good features in which make this game stand out but doing 
 missions in this is kinda boring. The best feature in it has to be the Hall of Meat, in which I 
 had the most fun on.
  
  My final run on this is that its kinda slow paced and takes time and memorization of moves and 
 land to complete this game. Personally I would wait for this to hit $30 or less... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dim2199
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  My first experience with Skate 2 was not a good one. I found the new features to be annoying and 
 gimmicky. However, after beating the career, I can go back and say that the experience was worth 
 the time I spent.
  
  The game starts to improve when you unlock the map. Being able to transport from one area to another 
 is a necessity. However, it is just as fun to skate around as it was in the original Skate.
  
  Although some of the challenges are frustrating, the career stays mainly fun, The tournaments, 
 in my opinion, are the best part. The pro challenges, are extremely frustrating but are not required 
 to beat the game.
  
  The graphics in Skate 2 are slightly improved over the original. Despite this, the graphics don't 
 feel as sharp as before. The soundtrack is also a step down, with only a sprinkle of good songs. 
 
  
  The new Freeskate mode lets you complete challenges with your friends and randoms. It is disappointing, 
 however, that you still cannot skate the entire city with friends. Other multiplayer modes have 
 been added, including Hall of Meat. The ranking system associated with these modes is similar to 
 the one in Skate 1 and works well.
  
  Overall, Skate fans should get this game. For others, I would suggest renting it because many will 
 be turned down by the hard difficulty and the complex controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xNess13x
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  (Read review deck)
  also, this game is incredibly fun. There are a few glitches and bugs, but it's definitely worth 
 the money to buy this game. It has a good community, great gameplay, great graphics, and so much 
 stuff to do. You can Rig, Walk, Grind, whatever. Also, the Hall of Meat was a nice addition. This 
 is insanely fun to anybody who enjoys skating or skating games. also, if you are looking for the 
 most realistic skating game out there, this is just for you. So go to gamestop, EB Games, blockBuster, 
 Whatever, and go buy this game. If you dont like it at first... you will. trust me. you will. Even 
 my friend who hates skateboarding loves this game! XD
  
  About the online play, most of it is great. My only complaint is glitch abuse in the online "Hall 
 of Meat" mode. Other than that, this game has a great onine capabilities and makes the game stay 
 fun until you turn off your xbox. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucas81093
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 is one of the games me and many others have been waiting for. this game is a massive improvement 
 on the 1st one with added tricks, DLC and a new hall of meat mode. the only minor problem with this 
 game is that it gets a little glitch but oh well you dont win everything. This is one of my favorite 
 games on my 360. online is different slightly compared to the 1st one its got all the same as the 
 last except it also has hall of meat on it. the ranking system is different to most games but its 
 still good. and the achivements are quite easy as well so if your one that plays for (G) then this 
 shouldnt be much trouble. iv got about 850G in a week whilst still playing other games. and my mate 
 also has about 950 (g) on it.
  
  this game is one of the must buys of 2009. a definite 9.5/10
  
  Writen by
  -UDZ INFERN0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muhahha
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 8:40 am PT
Review:  If you didnt pick up a copy of skate, then skate 2 could have some getting used to, also skate 
 2 grows on you if you ever played tony hawk games and loved them then play some skate 2 and it'll 
 grow on you very quickly and you'll start to enjoy the machanics also there is no doubt that this 
 is one of the best skateing games out today but yet it can be frustrating, at some parts such as 
 reapeating tricks that u cannot due and repeating challenges but i haven't seen any repeating challenges 
 yet, overall i give it and 8.0 not bad and not very awsome to where i want to re-buy more copies. Skate 
 2 delievers to you a very good and unique gameplay along with some fun multiplayer that you can 
 tease a friend for fulling badly off of his board. I played skate 2 with a couple of my friends 
 yestarday and had a blast (we all kept falling) but yet getting used to it is the one of the funniest 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 7:41 am PT
Review:  In 2007, while Activison's Tony Hawk franchise was hitting a slump, EA Black Box revolutionised 
 skateboarding games with Skate and its innovative "flick-it" control system. Now, more than a year 
 later, its time for the inevitable sequel, but have Black Box learnt from the structural issues 
 of the first game?
  
  Graphically, Skate 2 doesn't really push the hardware (PS3 or 360) that much harder than the first 
 game did. It looks just as good as that game did in 2007, but suffers from the same problems, namely 
 some flat textures and appalling foliage. However, most of the characters look great and the lighting 
 effects help to convey a realistic feel, even if the textures aren't always top-notch. Almost all 
 of the new visual touches have been focussed on the model of your skater. You'll see lots of nice 
 detailing, from scuffs on clothing, scrapes and cuts after bails, to worn griptape and scratches 
 in the paint on your deck.
  
  The trick animations are almost flawless, though the vast majority haven't been changed since the 
 first game, but then that's no bad thing when they look this good. This really keeps you locked 
 into the realism; however it's an entirely different story when you're on foot. Yes, one of the 
 major new features allows you to get off you board to walk around and find new areas to skate that 
 would otherwise have been inaccessible. It's a great feature that really makes a big difference 
 to how you explore the world, especially because you no longer have to find a way around to the 
 top of stairsets, you can just walk up them. It's a shame then, that the walking animations look 
 like Black Box motion captured a monkey on crutches. It's that bad. The control of the walking 
 is horrendous as well, which certainly doesn't help when your game is already frustrating in the 
 first place, but more on that later in the review.
  
  Once off your board you can also manipulate certain objects in the environment (such as small ramps, 
 rails and benches) by dragging them around to create your own lines to skate. Thankfully, this 
 controls much better than walking, though it certainly isn't without its issues. The objects are 
 programmed to be light enough for one skater to move them around, which also means they can be 
 knocked over very easily by passing AI skaters and pedestrians. You can set the objects to respawn 
 in a set location by attaching them to your "session marker" but even so, having to restart a challenge 
 because a ramp tipped over while you were riding it is ridiculous.
  
  Skate 2's career mode begins with your created character being released from prison after attempting 
 to skate down the San Vanelona dam. In story terms, you're playing the same character that you 
 did in Skate. Creating a character is much more interesting this time, mainly because facial options 
 and hair options are much more varied. The structure of the UI for create-a-skater is vastly better 
 as well. Gone are the intrusive loading times for clothing previews that plagued the first game. 
 You can also create custom graphics for decks and clothing using a graphics creator on the Skate 
 2 website. Most players won't use this feature because you need to be a Photoshop wizard to make 
 anything half-decent, but you can still download other users' graphics by pressing the "send to 
 game" button on the website which (if you're logged into the site) links to your gamertag and adds 
 them to your game. It's a clunky setup for sure, but it's still an interesting feature.
  
  When you get into the game proper anyone who played the first Skate will feel at home straight 
 away. The same controls with that great skateboarding "feel" are all present and correct and you 
 can opt to skip the tutorials if you're a Skate veteran and get right into the action. There are 
 some new tricks to experiment with in Skate 2, though mercifully none of these add to those on 
 the already crowded right stick. New tricks include modifiers to make grabs and ollies "no-footed", 
 handplants and footplants. These work well in the context of the original trick system, though 
 footplants have a tendency to randomly not work on occasions.
  
  The career mode's structure is ultimately where Skate 2 falls down and, shockingly, it is for exactly 
 the same reasons as the first game. Black Box appear to have learnt nothing from the criticisms 
 of their first game. There are still far, far too many objectives based around landing very specific 
 tricks using the right stick. The controls simply are not accurate enough to accommodate these 
 stringent requirements, so you'll often find yourself trying a trick over and over until you finally 
 get it. 
  
  There is one particular example of this in a mission called "Can you spell G. I. R. L.?" that huge 
 numbers of players have complained about. In this level, you must play a game of S. K. A. T. E. with 
 2 pros. For some reason Black Box have programmed this goal so that the pros almost never fall 
 meaning it can be almost half an hour before you even have a chance to set a trick rather than 
 attempting to copy the pros, which in itself is nearly impossible thanks to games of S. K. A. T. E. 
 demanding exclusive use of right-stick flip tricks. This is only mission in the game that I haven't 
 completed and its all down to the way it was designed. It is frankly, broken.
  
  On the other end of the fun scale are the photo challenges. These allow you to perform a trick 
 of your choice on a set obstacle or sequence of obstacles and the result is shown to you as a photo 
 in either The Skateboard Magazine or Thrasher. Seeing the results of our efforts in such an immediate 
 way is hugely satisfying. More of these goals would have made Skate 2 a much more interesting experience.
 
  
  Perhaps the best element of the game comes from the fact that areas of the city have been added 
 to or changed completely to fall in line with the notion of "New San Vanelona" which brings back 
 the thrill of exploring the city and finding hidden spots - the best part of Skate. To help you 
 along the way you can call friends on your cell phone, who all perform different helpful tasks. 
 Sammy will drain backyard pools and plaza fountains, Big Black will stop security guards from hassling 
 you in no-skate zones and Mike will remove "skate blockers" (metal pieces on ledges and rails designed 
 to stop skaters) . As with everything in Skate 2 though, there's a niggling annoyance even with 
 these, because calling one of your friends results in the exact same cut-scene every single time.
 
  
  Rounding out career mode are the usual competitions and racing events, both of which are improved 
 over the original game, but neither of which present much in the way of new content. The last addition, 
 Hall of Meat is a rather immature addition which lets you control your bails to score points for 
 injuries. This wasn't fun as a similar feature 2 years ago in Tony Hawk's Project 8 and its not 
 fun now either. It's just another example of a lack of focus on the core skating experience.
  
  It gives me great satisfaction that Black Box has been far more creative with their online 
 feature set. Online freeskate now includes Burnout Paradise like co-op challenges. These are fantastic 
 fun with friends, but having one less experienced Skate player can make life difficult even if 
 everyone else is pretty good at the game. Ranked matches include jam sessions, S. K. A. T. E, Hall 
 of Meat, race and best trick modes. They're fun enough but they won't keep you coming back to Skate 
 2 as much as the freeskate activities.
  
  Somewhere in Skate 2 is a great game screaming to be let out, but its been held back by Black Box's 
 failure to learn from the glaring faults of the original Skate. Trying to make a control scheme 
 do more than it can has spoilt the career mode, but skating around and finding spots yourself still 
 makes for hours of entertainment. Skate 2 is a good, but ultimately disappointing game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Play3rX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  EA has done well the Skate series. I played the OG Skate and liked it. Better than Tony Halk's 
 series. Recently, i've bought Skate 2, and loved it. I think it's better than the first, really.
 
  
  After the destruction of San Van, 5 years have passed, you leave the jail and go to the New SV, 
 a better reconstruction of the city. In addition, the city is safer, and the good spots have grind 
 blockers.
  
  The good:
  .: Better graphics and camera movements.
  .: Excellent soundtrack
  .: The new interface is more beautiful than OG
  .: Great difficulty 
 for a Skateboard game
  .: Great story on carrer mode
  .: Get off your board... nice one !
  
  The bad: 
  .: Walking it's lame
  .: Easy to escape 
 from the security
  
  Tony Halk's ? Not anymore. EA wins the battle with Skate 2. If you liked the first, go buy it. 
 If you dont like Skateboarding games, it's time to change your mind =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dracula_16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 6:52 pm PT
Review:  The skateboarding video game genre was given a face full of ice water in 2007 after Skate came 
 out, courtesy of EA. It changed what had been industry standards for many years, and it also added 
 some new ideas which were generally positive. Skate 2 had all the potential in the world to be 
 a success because Skate 1 opened up new boundaries for the genre. Skate 2 is definitely a quality 
 game but it's hard not to be a little disappointed
  
  There's a live action video that starts out immediately after you choose that you want to play 
 career mode. I don't know if the developers had intended it to be gritty and serious but I found 
 it to be hilarious. You play as a nameless skater who's just gotten out of prison after spending 
 five years there. You'll find out that an organization called MongoCorp has been busy while you 
 were locked up. They've taken over the city and have put metal bolts across some of the best skate-able 
 spots. It's your job to take back the city for the skaters, or something like that. You're never 
 clued in as to why you of all people have to do it. 
  
  It sounds good enough on paper but the story never goes anywhere. It's virtually nonexistent after 
 you get past the first half hour mark. The story could've given the developers a reason to introduce 
 unique challenges like vandalizing MongoCorp buildings or doing some side missions for the cops 
 which would in turn allow you to convince them that MongoCorp is corrupt. EA did a very lazy job 
 with the story of Skate 2-- they wasted a perfectly good opportunity for a story driven game a 
 la Tony Hawk's Underground. 
  
  The gameplay at least makes up for the story and that's not a surprise. Skate 2 builds upon Skate 
 1's unique controls by giving you a whole mess of new tricks. The analog sticks will still be used 
 for your body and board; flicking the right stick down and diagonally upwards will do kickflips 
 or heelflips, and flicking it down and to the side will result in pop shuvits. Some of the new 
 additions have you using the right shoulder button to do handplants, using the X button to do one-footers, 
 holding down a trigger and using the A button to do a boneless, and more. 
  
  If you've played Skate 1 then you'll feel right at home with Skate 2's controls. Newbies will probably 
 be happy to know that there are some optional tutorials at the beginning of the game. Those who 
 are new to the series and unwilling to use the tutorials aren't left out in the cold either. You'll 
 get more than enough time to get familiar with the controls because Skate 2 is a surprisingly long 
 game; it'll take you around 15-16 hours to get through the career mode if you're not in a hurry.
 
  
  Some of the activities that you'll be doing in the career mode include getting sponsored, competing 
 in the hilariously named 'Tranny contests', trying to get on magazine covers, downhill races and 
 more. The fun will inevitably come to a screeching halt at certain challenges, though. 
  
  The bonus challenges from Danny Way are universally stupid. Without spoiling too much, dropping 
 in from heights beyond 100 feet is no fun because it doesn't at all fit with what skateboarders 
 would do. They might as well be known as sky diving challenges. There are also some challenges 
 that force you to do very specific tricks in succession; some of them are so bad that they'll require 
 at least 15 retries before you get it right. Thankfully, these sorts of challenges are rare.
  
  Skate 2 has an expanded video editor that you can use to upload footage of yourself falling 
 50 feet and landing on your nuts, or whatever other video you might have recorded. There are much 
 better options for camera angles this time around because you now have full control over where 
 you want to shoot from.
  
  You'll meet a lot of pro skaters in the game which have all been voiced by their real life counterparts; 
 Eric Koston, Rob Dyrdek and Danny Way are probably the most famous ones. The voice acting delivered 
 by the pros is decent at best. John Cardiel does the best job out of all of them, while Mike Carroll 
 delivers the enthusiasm of someone who hasn't slept in a week.
  
  It's also worth mentioning that your photographer [named Reda] has what I like to call 'Fable 2 
 dog syndrome'. This disease is diagnosed to video game characters that are supremely annoying. 
 Reda constantly spews unfunny quips after you wipe out. Thankfully, the sound effects and ambient 
 sounds are much better than the voice work.
  
  When you're finished with the career mode you can hop online for a much improved multiplayer experience. 
 There are the standard score based modes, downhill races and a new mode called Hall of Meat. In 
 Hall of Meat you'll win by having the nastiest wipe out. If you've played a game called PAIN then 
 you'll know what to expect; your wipeout is given a point total that's determined by a number of 
 different things such as the number of bones you broke and the distance that you traveled. It's 
 a decent diversion but it pales in comparison to the trick based modes.
  
  You might not see much of a graphical leap from Skate 1 to Skate 2 just by looking at screenshots, 
 but that'll be because you haven't seen enough of the environments and animations. The trick animations 
 are incredible and as far I can tell, there have been some animations re-done (such as the Method 
 grab) . There's a much bigger variety to the places you'll be skating in this time around; you'll 
 get to explore a waterfront district, a mountain, a dam, a downtown district and more.
  
  That's brought down a bit by some unfortunate blemishes, though. Skate 2 contains, hands down, 
 the worst foliage I've seen in years. That may sound like nitpicking but it really isn't. The hideous 
 foliage stands out more than it normally would because the main districts are so nicely done. The 
 only other eye sore is a weird frame rate issue. Sometimes the game will run just fine but other 
 time's it'll completely freeze for a least one second at random intervals. I don't know if it's 
 just a problem with my console but it's at least worth mentioning.
  
  The thing that surprised me the most about Skate 2 was its soundtrack. It has one of the best line 
 ups in the history of sports games, in my opinion. It features some punk, metal and hip hop heavyweights 
 like Judas Priest, Motorhead, Suicidal Tendencies, The Clash, Nas and Public Enemy. There's also 
 a song called S. K. A. T. E by Korrupted Hoodlums which has some references to Skate 2 in the lyrics, 
 which is pretty neat. 
  
  I'd say that Skate 2 is a great value for what you're paying for; the career mode is lengthy, the 
 video editor is good and the multiplayer is a ton of fun. Skate 2 introduced a lot of new elements 
 but it didn't improve upon most of the problems in Skate 1. It's a bit of a disappointment but 
 you're still likely to enjoy yourself if you're a fan of the extreme sports genre. Thanks for reading. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobazz
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  Skate was the start of a new gen skateboarding game. They've made tony hawk's game series look 
 bad. The big thing was the revolutionary trick system. 
  
  Now has the sequel to the revolutionary game released. Skate 2...
  The game starts with that 
 you will create a skater after that you will not get a toutrial of all the tricks just all the 
 new stuff like get off your board and move stuff and then you are in slappys. but you can choose 
 to get the toutrial but you will just see a original video how you peform the tricks. when you 
 are in slappys you will get the real toutrial.
  
  moving stuff is really fun actually couse you can create sooooo sick lines and when you've created 
 a sick spot or a sick line that you want to share with others. Then you just pop up "create-a-spot" 
 and create a sick spot.
  
  the biggest and lamest thing they've done is walking. it's lame, slow laggy and just bad. but it's 
 a skateboard game not a walking game.
  
  if you liked the first game you'll love this one. great sequel.!
  bob 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjhbravo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  When first playing the demo I was addicted completely to it. I played it through several times. 
 On the day the game came, I was excited to get home. I couldn't wait to get past the lousy tutorial 
 I had played countless times and get through into the world.
  After exiting Slappy's I was given two magazine opportunities and I went through the Skateboard 
 mag ones very easily, while the Thrasher ones were frustrating at many times. The two challenges 
 that require handplants were the ones I found the most difficult. This is Skate 2's main downfall, 
 making the game realistic is great (it's even classed as a Simulation on EA) but making downright 
 almost impossible missions doesn't help. But are rewarding when complete. I then was allowed to 
 pick a pro-board sponsorship after doing the required pro missions. Some are fairly difficult but 
 I didn't find them too hard, and then there was the infamous 'Can you spell Girl?' challenge which 
 baffled my friends and me for some time. Many people say 540's and Triple flips work, which they 
 do, but are difficult to pull off. I soon had to take advantage of the glitch in which you place 
 a rail in front of the bench.
  After doing all those I soon gave myself some room just to pull off tricks and get used to everything 
 before trying the Street contests, Tranny contests and Death races! The walking is very clumsy 
 in this game, turning normally requires you to stop and turn on the spot which really does suck. 
 There is no walking option in the game which is annoying for me as a video maker on games but other 
 people don't really care. The Trick scheme is basically the same as you use the right stick for 
 flips and jumps and the shoulder buttons for grabs but with an addition of new buttons building 
 new tricks, the right shoulder button is for handplants (or inverts for Tony Hawk fans) and X and 
 A can take your feet on and off the board. An example of a trick using more than one button is 
 a Judo which is RT+X (that's for goofy stance, not sure for Regular) which can also be used as 
 a foot plant (when you push of the ground with your foot while in mid-air) . And there are all sorts 
 of combinations of tricks, but it has a fatal flaw, it is WAY too precise. In SKATE games (or Throwdowns) 
 it is very difficult to get the right trick, a Hardflip can accidently become a 360 Hardflip because 
 you didn't put the Right stick in the correct starting position.
  A lot of people (especially me) where thrilled when EA introduced the Hippy Jump which is where 
 the skater jumps off his board while the board still runs and the skater lands back on the board 
 (sometimes) and looks extremely awesome when pulled off over a rail or table or bench. But the 
 Hippy Flip is still done the old fashioned way, timing and patience. I'm not explaining the Hippy 
 Flip, look it up on YouTube or something like that. I want to go onto the Replay editor now, which 
 hasn't really changed (unfortunately) where you have a Game Camera but now you have a Tri-Pod camera 
 and a follow Camera. Both useless when you buy the Filmer pack (for a hefty 600MS, but worth it) 
 as it includes a free camera and advanced free camera which are both extremely useful when you 
 know how to use them. I have made some good videos using these two tools and they are both extremely 
 tools (as I keep going on about them) ! Well then I started the Street and Tranny Contests and can 
 be extremely stressful at times as at the pr stage, they pull 800 point tricks out of their asses. 
 But with a steady hand and creative mind can be overcome quite easily. Death races have never been 
 my stronghold. I find them very difficult at times but they give you large sums of money each race 
 if you bet very high and you never lose as long as you restart at the right times.
  I won't go into anymore detail on the Career because I don't want to give too much away. But the 
 singleplayer is highly addictive and really fun when mastered. I may as well talk about the create 
 a spot which is actually ok. I've not tried anyone else's but I have created one or two myself 
 (rubbish as they are) and it is fairly enjoyable.
  This is a very good game and I loved nearly all of it. But I can't rate it a 10 because there are 
 a few bugs and glitches that have annoyed me and some challenges are too hard to bare. But I have 
 thoroughly enjoyed the game and it should keep me going until Splinter Cell Conviction in March. 
 One thing though is that you can only view footage in the main menu which is fairly stupid. And 
 don't rent it because you won't get enough out of it by renting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwnd56
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 is hard to describe, because you have to buy it just to see how amazing it is. Skate 1 
 was a really good game, and started the revolutionary new way at creating skating games. In Skate 
 2, you are the revered skater that you turned into in the first game, but you just got out of prison, 
 and, must start all over again. The game's best new feature is the walking mode, where you can 
 just jump off of your board, move things around, and walk or jump to difficult spots. The hall 
 of meat has been revamped into this new, hardcore, bonebreaking machine, where you don't just go 
 limp after being hit by a car, you get thrown, and you can even control your skater as he is bailing! 
 The X360 frame rate is awesome, i believe 90 per hr, the graphics are great, the music is good, 
 and, awesome, awesome, awesome! In addition, the game has "doubled your bag of tricks," by introducing 
 new hippie jumps- these are used to jump over an obstacle and land again over it, plants, and lips. 
 Also, another great thing is that you don't have to worry about going limp if you hit a curb or 
 small obstacle, you just jump off your board, and "kick out." If you loved skate, you will not 
 regret this, this is the skate equivalent of "The Dark Knight!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbags182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I had pre-ordered Skate 2 way back in November when the game first announced. I played a few more 
 hours of the original skate to get back in the grove and I was wetting my pants for the majority 
 of January.
  
  I never played the demo because I wanted the thrill of the new game. The day came January 21st 
 and I arrived in Game Stop and hurriedly rushed home to pop in my brand new skateboarding game. 
 What...?
  
  I got off my board to head up the stairs on my way to Slappy's and i was gagging, I barely made 
 it up the stairs and when i got up i ran right into the rail and flipped down. I went at it again 
 after 5 minutes of trying maneuver my character back to the stairs. I got back on my board and 
 skated around and was totally amazed. The tricks look like they came right from a skate video.
 
  
  The second disappointment was moving objects. I wanted to do some crazy stuff with moving objects 
 but it couldn't happened. If u bump into a rail it can move out of the way or even fall down. I 
 was totally frustrated and wondered why I spent any money on this game.
  
  Two things are bad in this game, the two newest things for your skating arsenal. However the new 
 tricks were amazing i always wanted to do hand plants, foot plants, and boneless' (or its variations) . 
 Also the map is amazing. It's widely unique from basic mini ramps to 100 foot falls off of the 
 letters of "New San Vanelona".
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE
  
  The bottom line is that my obsession was a bit too much. It was not the greatest video game of 
 all time. But it certainly was the best skateboarding game and I'd even venture to say it's one 
 of the best sports games to date behind NHL 09 and Madden 08. 
  60 dollars is a bit too much for this game but I'd say when it gets dropped down to 40-45 dollars 
 its a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8ball234
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2009 10:42 am PT
Review:  If you hated the original Skate, stay FAR away from this sucker. The controls are exactly the same, 
 with even more tricks mapped out to the flick it control scheme. Goals are a little easier this 
 time out, with a few exceptions (can you spell GIRL, is way too hard for it's own good) . The city 
 is huge, and has a ton of new, creative spots to skate. The online stuff has been greatly improved 
 as well.
  
  The bad part, is that while the developers fixed a couple of issues, they've stilll left a ton 
 of annoying bits in the game. The pedestrians being the most irritating feature in this franchise. 
 When I want to skate a spot, I don't want to have to weave in between five pedestrians, before 
 I even hit the spot. I believe anyone who has played this game has screamed at the virtual people 
 a time or two. Getting off your board and walking around is clumsy as all hell. It would be so 
 much better with a little tweaking. Maybe next time.
  
  For the most part, it's what you would expect from a sequel. They didn't re-invent the wheel this 
 time around, but they didn't need to. If you loved the first game, you'll love this one as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elektrixxx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 3:22 am PT
Review:  After the release of "skate." in 2007, many were surprised by it's trampling of Tony Hawk's Proving 
 Ground which was released shortly after. The game's fresh and more realistic take on the skating 
 genre proved popular with consumers, despite the game having issues simply from being a new untested 
 series. In skate 2, the satisfying gameplay remains and then some, but some problems from the original 
 game also make a return.
  
  The game begins with a well made high quality introduction video featuring the game's voice actors. 
 You're asked to create your skater head to toe, before it drops you into to the actual game itself. 
 Nearly everything in the large open world of New San Vanelona is accessible straight away, with 
 only select rails, pools and other property becoming available to you later on in Career mode. 
 If you want to get straight into the action without worrying about your character's appearance 
 you may do so and get back to the editing later where you can change everything previously, including 
 the gender of your skater.
  
  Skating is controlled with the "flick it" system just like the previous game, except now it has 
 around twice as many tricks as well as other features and refinements. If this is your first time 
 playing skate or you're only used to the controls of the Tony Hawk's series you may find it overwhelming 
 at first, but it doesn't take long to get used to the intuitive setup and brings a realistic weighted 
 feel to the gameplay. On-foot controls are functional but not ideal. Turning your character is 
 performed with the right stick and running is with the left. The result is a clunky, almost tank-like 
 movement. Running up stairs also looks awkward and is too slow. Additionally, sometimes when you're 
 getting back on your board you will just bail straight away for no reason.
  
  skate 2 is presented through a fisheye lens for almost the entirety of the game. This once again 
 gives the game a resemblance to the way skating videos are sometimes presented. This as well as 
 the waist high default camera view gives a real sense that someone is following you with the camera. 
 If you dislike this view you can change it to a similar view seen in the Tony Hawk's titles. The 
 game engine always strives for 60 frames per second, but hits the mark only half the time. Even 
 so, there's rarely a game-breaking drop in frame rate. Certain areas won't ever run at 60FPS, and 
 frames drop when travelling at high speed such as down a hill but again it's largely a non-issue.
 
  
  One problem in particular that has popped it's head up (and the rest of their bodies) again through 
 career mode is that pedestrians and other skaters get in your way. In one instance, A pedestrian 
 was standing in the way on a ramp which I needed to complete a challenge, and in another challenge 
 I had to do a plant above a half pipe with another skater skating in the exact area where I needed 
 to be. These are only two examples, but NPC's blocking your way is common throughout the game. 
 Also, if you run into an NPC at slow speed, you will move in the opposite direction immediately. 
 Turning around just as quickly isn't always easy because you may be near other obstacles. Getting 
 off your board and just turning around when you're standing still sucks because of the rotten on-foot 
 controls. A challenge can become frustrating if you require restarting over and over again. Opting 
 to restart a challenge takes too long by asking "Are you sure?" every time, and afterwards some 
 challenges have a countdown timer from 3, wasting more of your time. The game will sometimes respawn 
 you in front of (and sometimes inside) the obstacles you just bailed on, such as movable objects 
 or cars, so that you have no chance to try avoid them without turning around. This is most common 
 if you crash head on with a car down a hill, with you respawning right in front of a car for you 
 to crash again.
  
  The voice acting settles in smoothly with the game. Comments from your cameraman and others are 
 remain pleasant even after repeating a task or action such as bailing. The soundtrack is excellent 
 and isn't entirely based on a type of sound or genre. It doesn't always play at a set volume like 
 one would assume; the sound source is usually from a sound setup in New San Vanelona for added 
 immersion.
  
  The replay editor may seem like too much for first-timers, but it's easy to get used to. It saves 
 around 30 seconds of past gameplay at it's peak, with less time in certain areas. You may also 
 take a screenshot at any time during the replay. There aren't too many camera and effects options 
 to play with (in fact there are no effects except for slowing down the speed) , but the minimalist 
 style suits the game. It promotes upcoming downloadable content (which has since been released) 
 for video effects and more camera angles, some of which may have been available for free in the 
 original game. The game doesn't simply share raw replay data itself to other consoles. Instead 
 of a data trade similar to Halo 3 or Banjo-Kazooie: Nuts & Bolts, users share encoded video. After 
 editing your desired video, you have to wait for the video to be encoded before continuing. In 
 my experience a 5-10 second video takes about a minute to upload to skate. ea. com. For those with 
 slower internet connections, there is no function to allow video to buffer before playing. My 1500kb 
 connection could not keep up with the in-game playback. Unfortunately after completing a challenge, 
 the replay editor doesn't remember your movements, so your awesome challenge-winning line will 
 be lost forever unless you pause the game before completing a challenge.
  
  Online Free Skate features Burnout Paradise-like challenges which you can select to opt-in or not 
 when a challenge is proposed by your game's host. There's plenty to do here, but if you're impatient 
 the less talented skaters online may aggravate you in your quest for completion. Just like Burnout 
 Paradise, your best experience in this mode will be with friends or other players who are competent 
 at the game. Ranked matches consist of competitions and races like those seen in career mode, except 
 it's online with real players. Participating in these events earn you experience points which eventually 
 earn you bronze, silver and gold badges as well as cash for career mode. Switchable options such 
 as allowing skaters to pass through each other make it an enjoyable online outing, and possibly 
 the most fun you will have with this game.
  
  skate 2's new fleshed out online mode is what gives the game it's worth, so if you don't have access 
 to online capabilities you should probably sample the game before making your ultimate choice. 
 skate 2 is great when you're freely skating at your leisure, but when you're given career challenges 
 to follow, it's flaws can sometimes get the best of you. skate 2 brings in and brings back great 
 concepts for the genre, however it's a series which still remains with untapped potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_evil_Nemesi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Skate was a great game, and generally speaking, video game sequels always tend to be better (as 
 opposite to movies) .
  
  Now here's a case of "That's not what happened"
  
  Skate 2 delivers in terms of pro skaters, licensed music and skateboarding trademarks. The locations 
 are usually pretty although sometimes kind of all look alike.
  
  The graphics are somewhat of a letdown compared to its predecessor in terms of novelty, but still, 
 they are acceptable compared to other recent video games. As said earlier, the soundtrack is pretty 
 sharp, with different styles of music including rock and some hip-hop tracks.
  
  The total letdown is the gameplay.
  
  At best, we could describe it as sketchy. Some may say 
 that the 'flick it' concept is revolutionary and a great leap forward. I find it annoying. It was 
 acceptable in Skate 1 because it would often time give you a chance. In Skate 2, there are practically 
 no room for mistakes. Especially during Challenges. Let's say you need to to do a tweaked hand 
 plant on a rail above a pool or a quarter pipe. Well, in order to get it done is to get enough 
 speed somehow, flick'it at the top of the vert and then press the right bumper while playing with 
 the right stick to tweak the hand plant. This may or may not sound simple, but in practice it's 
 very hard to achieve. Sometimes you don't get launched properly and get ejected from the vert. 
 Sometimes you don't. Sometimes you will grind the rail instead of doing the handplant. Sometimes 
 you will just make a flip instead of a simple ollie and fall and bail.
  
  Sometimes during challenges, you can bail with no consequences, sometimes you can't. (It completely 
 restarts the challenge) . You get stuck in small indentations in the world and I found that however 
 hard (or lightly) I hit a car, I always bailed. These are like autobails.
  
  I found myself swearing and shouting very often at the controls of this game. While I think the 
 flick'it thing is interesting, it does not offer enough on terms of playability. I don't feel much 
 more immersed if I'm flicking the control stick or if I'm pressing a button (like in Tony Hawks) .
 
  
  Another thing worth noting is the impossibility to modify your character's traits. Sure you have 
 the "possibility" but it seems that wherever you put the slider it doesn't seem to change a whole 
 lot. It wouldn't be as bad as if the character didn't look like a stupid baboon. There are a lots 
 of clothes to choose from, though, so it's not so bad.
  
  All in all skate is a definite rent for me.
  
  It is not the game I was hoping for, especially 
 compared to Skate 1, seeing as EA could have done so much more with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmiisha_796
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 definitely is proof of why Neversoft dropped out of the Tony Hawk series. This game, like 
 many other games, does most things right but does some things wrong that can be quite irritating.
 
  
  First of, the graphics in this game, although not always consistent, but its definitely eye candy 
 at its best moments. The inconsistent moments occur during the loading screens when they show a 
 video of your character doing some cool tricks with his board. Now the glitch occurs when your 
 character grinds something, and the wheels of his board seem to be sinking into the solid metal 
 bar that he is grinding! other than that, the lighting can go out of the reality some times and 
 a black man will look like he's native Chinese. But those are only minor occurrences.
  
  The tricks on the other hand are killer and because so many tricks are so alike when using the 
 right stick to perform them, you can often get the tricks mixed up. This is especially so in the 
 challenges where you must perform a specific trick or your bust.
  
  The story is definitely not the main attention of this game, as after the first half hour or so 
 into the career campaign, all your doing is participating in competitions and trying to get you 
 face on a magazine cover...... I'm not complaining about that, but it would be nice to see the 
 story brought back to life in some way towards the end.
  
  Anyway, to wrap up, all I can say is that Skate 2 is the best skateboarding game out there right 
 now. And Activision should now that EA are taking over in the skateboarding simulator. Hope you 
 guys can hold fast with Guitar Hero before Rock Band takes over.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yahooforpoop
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this off by saying that I spent many a drunken night playing skate with my friends, 
 and it's still out number one game to play. skate 1 was out of this world, and pretty much dropped 
 an atomic bomb on the tony hawk series (which has been announced that no new series will be made 
 until something "revitalizes" the series) . Ive played skate 2 so far for roughly 4 hours, and im 
 way diggin it. I do have to say though that im surprised it got so much harder. i meant skate was 
 tough, but ill have to agree that a lot of challenges in this one are awesome architecural set 
 ups, and amazing gaps and sequences, but its so damn hard to hit the challenges. At some points 
 I want to throw my controller at the screen, grab my xbox light it on fire and chuck it out the 
 window. but once you beat that challenge it makes you that much more stoked. Ive actually experienced 
 a good amount of glitches, but i dont know if thats just my copy of the game from gamefly. theres 
 still not much of a story, but thats what i want. i dont want some insane tony hawk story where 
 you do all this whacky stuff and ride lawnmowers around. If you actually skate you would know there 
 is not story, its just the love of skating and hitting spots. If your a skater, get this game, 
 if your not, you might not appreciate it as much. overall, i give it 9 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelover117
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  "Skate 2" delivers from almost every angle; from the great detail and creative design of the city 
 to the intuitive controls and very fun gameplay. The city provides for a great downhill playground 
 for you and your trusty skateboard to own spots and attempt various challenges in the career mode. 
 These challenges range in difficulty from very easy to insanely hard, and require you to attempt 
 them over and over again until your thumbs hurt.
  
  "Skate 2" also offers an online experience that is arguably the most fun game mode. There are a 
 few different types of online modes to choose from. The trick-based competitions are well structured 
 and give players a chance to show off their moves. There is also Death Race mode, which puts up 
 to six players into an extremely fast race down various courses throughout the city. For those 
 masochistic gamers out there who enjoy the simple pleasure of inflicting mass amounts of damage 
 to your skater, the Hall of Meat mode is for you. Jump in, fall down and get really, really hurt 
 alongside your fellow gamers to rack up points.
  
  Overall, "Skate 2" is a very solid title. It is one that "Skate" fans will love and new players 
 to the franchise will grow to enjoy. It is one of those games that is just too fun to put down, 
 especially when played online with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurgel2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:54 pm PT
Review:  
  
  To sum it up
  
  1. Its, physics-wise, the most ambigious game created. So stop complainaining about the glitches.
 
  2. Repetative and hard? Isnt that the essence of skateboarding?
  3. Its just a very high production value package with lots of things to do.
  
  60fps, lots 
 of online options, improved animations, humour, downhill gameplay perfected, gotten rid of repatitive 
 tasks, city improved alot with all downhill roads, stitching, replay editor works great, ingame 
 movie categorization, improved online with alot of modes.
  
  Gamespot - you really suck, competence wise that is. Will you continue to hype mediocre games that 
 fall out of memory? Skate 1 & 2 is epic in comparrision to must-be-easily-fooled-to-like games 
 you praise. 
  
  Congrats to Black Box for the result. Now I havent got that more to say.. but GS insists on 100 
 words so ill continue until i reach there with empty crap.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickdastick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so first off I have to state the fact that the original Skate blew my mind!!! I was very 
 happy with the game and played it for hours on end and even went through it about 4 times. So I'm 
 well versed in the controls which you really need to be to get the most out of this game. I mean, 
 most people will think this game is pretty hard at first because the controls are quite different 
 than the THPS series and it's not just about hitting buttons real quick, it's about doing things 
 that flow and that work together. Here's the breakdown:
  
  Gameplay: Just when I thought the gameplay couldn't get any better, Skate 2 drops and slaps me 
 in the face with some nice tweaks across the board. I love the new moves they added and the framerate 
 has been silky smooth which just adds to realism and flow of the game.
  
  Graphics: Same as last game (which isn't a bad thing) but with some damage modeling now which is 
 a nice touch especially after a big spill.
  
  Audio: There is some really funny stuff in here dialogue-wise and the skate noises are spot on 
 like usual.
  
  Overall this is a great game. You can now move stuff around too to make new spots or add to spots. 
 It all adds up to a great experience. If you played the first one and like it, you need to play 
 this one for sure it's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MEdmondsR
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Before I explain my score let it be known I have played the first game most of the way through 
 and loved it giving me no reason not to buy the second right when it came out. And now I'm afraid 
 I have to say I am very disappointed with EA and what they have done to one of my favorite games 
 for the 360. 
  
  Let me begin with the character customization. It is basically the same. Except now they have a 
 few more accessories and hats. Oh yeah, you know how they advertise being able to make female characters? 
 Try exact same body as a boy but with an odd face and weird hair. Seriously. No body shapes that 
 even hit that you might be a woman. Hair options are just as limited as the first game. The shirts 
 of all kind are incredibly dull and blend together (they are all from pac-sun i swear) . 
  
  The controls are just as awesome as the first but now you can run. This is also a disaster because 
 it controls as if you were still on a skateboard but... your not.
  
  The city you skate in is familiar but very much improved from the last. There are tons of Spots, 
 Landmarks, Skate Parks, etc. The map that comes along with it is a huge improvement as well organizing 
 your objectives much much better.
  
  The graphics are a slight improvement from the last which is phenomenal considering the first had 
 great graphics. There are still the occasional glitch here and there but you wont care. 
  
  The Music is just the same as the first. if you liked it in the first you'll like it in this one. 
 Same with the narrator filming you the whole time.
  
  The Story? well, there is none. Just like the first all you do is complete objectives and get in 
 mags. NO STORY. come on EA. even Tony Hawk had a story.
  
  And lastly the difficulty. Play the game for about 2 hours and you'll come across your first few 
 difficult objectives and they dont stop there. every one of them seems to be impossible unless 
 you spend an hour and a half on each one. This is completely unacceptable EA. Your testers obviously 
 were out to lunch when you were testing half of your challenges so you made them nearly impossible 
 thinking it would be fun for seasoned players. Well actually it just makes me want to smash my 
 controller over your head.
  
  :D Besides that I love this game like I did the first.
  
  Rent the game if you need to play it now. If you can wait, buy it when its $30 next week 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C_squared_18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The game is incredibly fun and addicting. The trick system takes a while to learn but is so satisfying 
 when you learn it that it is totally worth it. Gamespot apparently got hung up on the flaws, the 
 walking, and the pedestrians. I admit both are somewhat annoying but you can go through 98% of 
 the game without walking and pedestrians aren't that big of a deal, the name of the game is Skate, 
 and it does that incredibly well. This game is definately worth the buy! Hall of meat is a great 
 addition and there are some absolutely crazy places to skate. The deeper character creation is 
 great, while you can't make your character totally outrageous you have a fair amount of choices 
 to make and theres an overwhelming amount of clothes and board options to choose from. Go get Skate 
 2 you'll be glad you did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylanisbored
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:41 pm PT
Review:  If you played Skate 1 and liked it you'll most probably want to pick this game up. This game adds 
 to what was already a great game. But not all the new features make this game amazing. The off 
 board controls are the worst I've ever felt playing a skateboarding game. Some other things that 
 may irritate players is that the security guards are all over the city now and they also out run 
 you while your skating at top speed. And although some of the rails have bolts over them so you 
 can't grind them they do let you call a person in to have him take them off. Another bad thing 
 was that I think the game was to short and a lot easier then the first Skate. I finished this game 
 about 2-3 days after I got it. One thing that a lot player might notice is that during jams and 
 races, other skaters will run into you and it almost seems like it's on purpose. But besides the 
 bad things, the create-a-spot feature is fun to play around with and is pretty easy once you get 
 used to it. If you played Skate 1 you might not of liked the camera angle, they let you have an 
 option now of zooming it out or you can keep it like where it was in the first Skate. Overall, 
 this game is pretty good and does deserve a chance with all people who like skateboarding games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahster
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Now this game has got all the features that skate has got and other things that are alot better 
 then the first. For example: getting off your board, alot more places where you do your own skateboarding 
 and alot of more stuff that is alot better. 
  
  Now it has been 5 years in jail an he is ready to skate again meeting pros, getting sponsored, 
 getting coverage of the mags, pro challenges and alot more other things you can do in career. There 
 is other things like calling service on your mobile if you are doing a challenge and there is wild 
 security going on and if that is happening you can call big black to smash the @@!!$$ hell out 
 of them. And another thing when you can call Sammy to drain pools for you. There is still the flick 
 it controls and that is absouletley the best kind of thing I've ever seen to play a skating game 
 with. It is because it is alot realistic then rather pressing buttons you use the analog sticks 
 and once you get use to it you will love it or maybe you will love it straight away. Now, the graphic: 
 The graphics for ea skate 2 and the first skate makes tony hawk's series looks like it a piece 
 of crap. The realism of the ea skate games are perfect for a skate game at this time although in 
 my opinion skate 2 has got a slightly better visual graphics than the first but still they are 
 both very good. 
  
  Any way that is all I can talk a review about skate 2 to all of you that has read it and I hoped 
 you liked so cya later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiskrispies15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  k to start off, this is game is probably going to be my favorite for a loooooong time. one reason 
 is because of the moving objects. Sure, its kinda annoying moving objects, but its such a minor 
 part, it doesnt even matter. same with the walking, people complain so much about it, but you BARELY 
 walk in the game. other than that, the game is perfect. the challenges really stepped up this game 
 than the first. the pro challenges were actually kinda tricky at points and it took me a bit to 
 do em. overall, i beat the game, because i played too much.
  
  GRAPHICS AND GAMEPLAY.
  the graphics to me are pretty damn good. i like how it looks, the first one was more impressive 
 though because it was an early game. the gameplay is amazing, the tricks and really smooth, the 
 grinds are sick. the one foots are great, but annoying at some parts. i have the habit of keepin 
 A down when i go off the mega ramp so i can keep pushing, so that kinda got me annoyed. you can 
 change the camera angle in this game. so thats pretty cool. i think the gameplay is awesome and 
 same with the graphics. pedestrians and cars are what really got me pissed. k, so the people are 
 blind and walk into you while doing a challenge so you had to dodge them and ****. the cars crossed 
 red lights lol so whenever i crossed a street for this one challenge they'd wreck me. but other 
 than that. amazing game.
  
  the music is good too, though theres some that are annoying. like the George Lopez theme song. 
 they have a good choice, i think its perfect for this game. but yeah. heres how it goes down for 
 me:
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  Gameplay: 9.5ish
  Sound: 9
  Controls: 10
  
  add them up, i think its a 9.5 in my mind, i suck at math though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unktob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I wonder just how many of the User reviews actually played Skate 2? I have been playing Skate 2 
 for waaaaay too many hours since I got it But I can't help it! It's addictive and an instant classic! 
 (Yes I really have played. As of tonight, out of the thousands of skaters to play online, I'm 
 rank in the top 50 players of one of the more popular modes  Hall of Meat! lol)
  
  Here's some Good Points!
  1) Controls & Tricks: Skate 2 took the original ground breaking "dual 
 flip" controls, keep the basic functionality, but expanded it Dramatically!!! Some reviewers never 
 seem to mention this (especially the lower rating reviewers!) Being able to control independent 
 feet opens up a world of new tricks and possibilities! Yes, you can do foot plants, but you can 
 also pull one foot airs, and tweak them to your heart's content! You have so many more tools at 
 your creative disposal! Some of the challenges are definitely tough, but with such a huge back 
 o'tricks to pull from, even if you have to retry a spot multiple times to nail it, it doesn't get 
 old! (at least for me) 
  
  2) It's a Whole New World: Who really cares what happened to cause the city to have to be rebuilt 
 It's a great new city!! There are so many great new parks, and spots to play. Some of the old areas 
 are still there and just somewhat modified, but most areas that you recognize from the first Skate 
 are hardly recognizable. I haven't found and old spot yet that I like the old version better at 
 least not yet. It location just has more "Fun Potential" than before!
  
  3) I feel the need the Need for Speed!!: Yes, ball bearing technology has improved during our 
 main character's 5 year sentence You can go much faster! There are some amazing downhill sections 
 up in the mountains, and some even more amazing water basin & pipe runs that gets you to a top 
 speed that can induce a bit of Vertigo on a nice quality big HD TV! Which leads to
  
  4) Pain is Good!: The Hall of Meat is amazingly enjoyable! I know that some of the purists are 
 not down with this aspect, since it branches away from the true "simulation" aspect of the game 
 but It is just plain fun!! If you get into an online Meat session, and actually get in with some 
 people that actually talk (and not 10-15 year old kids who annoy the crud out of everyone, but 
 actual Men and Women) , it's easy to spend hours laughing at each other's crazy bails antics and 
 end up with a group of new friends at the nights end. For me, laughing so hard that I'm crying 
 and get a stomach cramp is a pretty common occurrence!
  
  5) If you don't have Footy, it's Fiction!: The new reply editor is sweet! The controls are more 
 intuitive, and the freedom of the 3D camera control adds a ton! 
  
  6) There's more, but this is getting long!
  
  
  The Not so Good Points:
  1) Replay Editor- 
 Yes it is a bummer that some of the stuff we got for Free in the first Skate will cost us Microsoft 
 points this time around. I'd say that is pretty greedy of them. It is one thing to offer DLC that 
 expands the area, or offers additional & original game modes, but to make us pay for something 
 that really should be part of the game? That's some low class poo. 
  
  2) Holy Load Screens, Batman!: Uh Wow! Those are some long load screens! There's a lot of happy 
 stuff it's loading, so it's worth the wait but what a wait!
  
  3) You can't satisfy everyone Sometimes, you can't fully satisfy anyone!: So many people want 
 so many exact options on the Create a Skater that they are doomed to not be able to satisfy everyone. 
 Unfortunately, I have yet to meet somebody online playing the game who was not somewhat disappointed 
 in the CAS. We lost some stuff from Skate 1's CAS You can't make a fat guy or girl. Some of us 
 like to make a funny guy or girl, and there are some Items you can buy that prove that EA is OK 
 with that! (Can anyone say a hat that holds 2 Beers? lol!! Classic!!) The CAS interface itself 
 is a blast from the way past You can't even adjust the camera angle to get a better look at your 
 character as you make adjustments. 
  
  4) I think an Etch a Sketch might do better!: I applaud them for giving us a tool for creating 
 custom graphics for use on our boards, shirts and hats However, there are more things wrong then 
 are right. 
  
  a. Your graphic doesn't cover the entire board, so you end up with something that doesn't really 
 look like a custom board it just looks like you stuck a custom sticker on the bottom of the board. 
 
  
  b. The sticker on the hat just looks stupid (too big and clunky) , and when you put the graphic 
 on a shirt, it looks like something they just created at the last minute and the proportions of 
 the graphics compared to the shirt look like you'd only find at a Dollar Store. (LOL) 
  
  c. Most of the colors you use for the backgrounds of your graphics do not match the background 
 colors of said boards, shirts and hats. So unless you pick just the right color, it's obvious to 
 the world that you bought your shirt, hat or board at the Dollar Store. 
  
  d. It's not quite stone and chisels, but in terms of a paint program, it's almost a fair analogy. 
 You can't select multiple items So let's say, hypothetically, that you are making a Homer head 
 You spend hours placing each individual piece and get it to look the way you want. You now cannot 
 move it without trying to select, move, and reposition all of those pieces!! Good luck trying to 
 select each piece too, by the way. No selection window You can only send something to the back 
 or bring it to the front You can't move back or up a layer at a time. That's an issue when you 
 have said Homer head with DOZENS of little pieces. There's some great work out there (I have a 
 graphic that is pretty OK, and has gotten very good reviews so far) , but given how hard it is to 
 use, and the number of eye twitches it causes, it's sad to think just what this community could 
 come up with if it had a tool that was at least adequate! 
  
  5) Freeskate activities are confusing and there's no help!
  
  
  Summary: 
  Luckily, most 
 of the points that stand out as negatives to me do not affect the overall game play, and the pure 
 fun aspects of this game. Some of my favorite, most fun, and the best video game moments of my 
 life so far have come playing Skate 2! If you are a Tony Hawk guru and love mashing buttons, this 
 is not for you! If you do not have the patience to learn a control scheme that can have a bit of 
 a steep curve, then I'd say look somewhere else (or rent it, and try if for a few days. This isn't 
 something that everyone can pick up and feel like they are really good at in an hour, although 
 I'm sure there are some that can and/or have!) If you expect to have the selection of garb that 
 you can get at your 2 local shopping malls. "Lighten up, Frances!" it ain't going to happen. 
 BUT If you want a game that lets you free room and explore the career mode in this expansive world 
 as much or as little as you want If you actually enjoy having fun playing online with old friends 
 and making new friends, there's few gaming experiences as enjoyable as watching each other create 
 amazing tricks at a spot, or causing hilarious bails (crashes) ! Get this game! Play this game, 
 and take the time to explore it If it's not "Love at first sight" It will probably be "Love after 
 the first few hours". Hopefully I'll see you on your board in the New San Vanelona!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FroDizzle
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok, first Skate game, basically took Tony Hawk's nads and ripped them off. It revolutionized skateboarding 
 in the video gaming world. The game is realistic in many ways, but certain things sometimes did 
 not look right. 
  
  This is where Skate 2 comes in to play, everything that didn't seem right in Skate (e. g. bails) 
 are much more realistic in Skate 2. Additions like the Hall of Meat is very much welcome because 
 almost everyone will be trying to break themselves in new and creative ways. 
  
  The layout of the map is MUCH easier than in the previous game. Getting on and off the board feels 
 right. All the button mapping for the new moves such as handplants and footplants feels perfect 
 for what they have to work with. The game is straight sick, while most may not agree. I can absolutely 
 guarantee any actual skater knows this is as real as it gets before actually go out on the town 
 and finding lines to shred. 
  
  Even after you beat the game you can go online and shred with friends for hours on end, the game 
 is non-stop fun. My advice, play the first Skate then play Skate 2 just to see how much it really 
 improved on little things some people may not notice. I, myself, played Skate constantly and this 
 new iteration did not disappoint at all. 
  
  Thank you EA and Black Box for making such as kick ASS skateboarding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krolmalpa
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 12:50 am PT
Review:  it is a good game if u like to skatebord but if u dont i would still recomnd bying it becuase it 
 is so easy to learn all of the moves that u can do and the new one is better for exp. much higher 
 crafix u U CAN PIC UP THE BOARD and the hole city has changed for u to find new places to SKATE 
 so bacicly u should give it a try even if u dont like to skatebord it is still a fun game to play 
 and there is also some new coll clothing companies for u to get u cloths from but u still have 
 all the same ones as before like dc addidase nike element so on and so forth and also u should 
 be carful of guards there are more and thay are toughfer but thay still aint faster and there are 
 clamps on some of the rails and steps so watch out when u are grinding but it is good for the hall 
 of meat and when u do this sertun part u can fone this guy to come and get ride of the clamps the 
 first one is free but all of the rest will cost u not alot though made by Kristian Olszewski 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiggyHaloX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  The only reason I said I played 10 hours or less is because of course, the game came out yesterday. 
 I got it at around lunch time yesterday, got home an hour later, played a bit of CoD5 before I 
 switched over to Skate 2 and... BLAMO. I ending up throwing myself over bridges, triggering a bail 
 (RT+LT+RS down and LS down) and judo kicked some old pensioner in the face. I know, the game came 
 out yesterday, so this isn't going to be my full review, however I can safely say, so far Skate 
 2 is really cracking up, the open world is very open the cops are fun to judo kick, it's addicting 
 racking yourself, and the stick controls are as brilliant as ever. 
  
  There are some welcome additions to Skate 2, such as skitching, button tweakers, services via mobile 
 phone, the fast travel similar to Oblivion's, pool draining, bailing, and the fantastic online 
 freeplay, which isn't as laggy as the first skate at all.
  
  So far, so good. I'll probably write a full review in a week or so on my highly unused blog.
 
  
  My Gamertag is Skadoosh TD, hope you liked my review in progress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_momma129
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 is awesome. It delivers everything it was supposed to offer. the controls are superb but 
 takes some time to master the flick it controls if you have not played OG Skate. the sense of speed 
 is incredible and better than a lot of racing games in the market. The only true problem I had 
 with the game was the walking animations they fell kinda chunky and a couple of glitches here and 
 there but that doesn't really affect the actual game play since you will spend most of your time 
 on your board. Moving around objects s a nice thing to have in there and could be useful sometimes 
 like for example you can move a ramp to be able to get over a set of large stairs. Skitching has 
 also been added to the game, this feature comes in handy when trying to go up hill or just picking 
 up speed. Thrashers hall of meat has also had its fair share of upgrades. Thrashing yourself is 
 a blast, it looks really painful too. When you bail you can control your character in the air and 
 make it do a cannonball, a judo kick, and other stuff. Skate 2 also has the option to create custom 
 graphics and put them on your shirt, skateboard, and hat. It could have been put together better 
 but it works. There is a lot of things in skate 2 that make it more than worthwhile the only things 
 holding it back are the walking animations and a some glitches. the game deserves a 9.5/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkJeremy26
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 is really really bad! Its resembles Tony Hawk in many ways and these changes do not suit 
 Skate! Danny Way has a challenge that you cant start intill your on a rooftop well good luck getting 
 up there. The Session Markers are BROKEN in Skate 2, you can nolonger place them wherever you want 
 which was really useful for Online Multiplayer. The problem is you cant gain huge air anymore and 
 many of the challanges require you to get huge air to complete them and you will spend 45min to 
 3 hours trying to complete these challenges its very frusterating. The rotation speed is anougher 
 huge problem its too SLOW! EA rushed this game and the end result is a Tony Hawk type game. Im 
 very disappointed with this game. Skate 1 should of got a 10/10. But Skate 2 fails in so many ways. 
 If EA would of just kept everything the same and made Skate 2 like OG Skate than many gamers would 
 be satified. This game will make you scream and yell at the T. V. I have over 100 hours logged into 
 Skate 1 and I have 1000 GS it is my favorite game. If you are skepital on whether to buy Skate 
 2just read my Review and stick with OG Skate its way better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yetiman27
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I egerly sold a small collection of my games that i could have been playing right now to get Skate 
 2, which was a bad mistake. Notihng in the game works. The skate. Reel is tediouse, the off board 
 controls blow, the objectives are borderline impossible because of the distance they give you from 
 where you start and where you have to ollie/trick is never enough to build up any speed. the same 
 problem exists online wher ethe novel Hall of Meat idea is broen due to the fact that befor eyou 
 do any trick theres a poweline or an unmissable drop off that counts as your score and makes for 
 soem very boring multiplayer. I loved the first Skate, but i highly reccomend that you stay away 
 from the sequel, it is a huge watse of time and patience. It had the feeling of a game that was 
 rushed so fast taht i tdeosnt know what to do iwth itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blaze323232
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I played a ridiculous amount of Skate. I was super excited for Skate 
 2 because I adored the first one, so once I got home with my game, you can imagine the joy I felt. 
 I started playing, created my character, etc. I ran through Slappy's park since I had played the 
 demo so many times already, and I knew exactly what to do. Finally, I could leave that park and 
 enjoy the new and revised San Valona. After skating around for a few hours I feel its safe to say 
 that the city looks and feels amazing. I did have some issues with the overall game though. Pedestrians 
 are now very much a hassle. The copious amounts of people walking around are often difficult to 
 avoid and disrupt the flow. Additionally, the challenges can be very frustrating. Unlike its predecessor, 
 Skate 2's challenges are often difficult to complete simply due to the way the architecture is 
 constructed. There are tons of great spots, but I feel like EA really did not pick the right spots 
 for challenges. For example, I played a game of S. K. A. T. E. against Eric Koston at this gap. I can't 
 exactly remember the name of the location, but basically you are on a higher ledge, and you gap 
 down to the street below. I would have no issue with this if the street below did not have ridiculous 
 amounts of cars speeding through, at random intervals. On top of that, pedestrians keep walking 
 through the gap. I understand that its "realism", but come on. This is a game, and I want to have 
 fun, not fail to execute a kickflip because a random car (that I have NO control over) runs me 
 over. It's still fun to free skate, and maybe as I progress my opinion of the challenges will change, 
 but so far, the career is more hassle than its worth. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
